[96] Mar. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Drug Enforcement Administration, the
reorganization plan which I am propos-
ing today would transfer to the Secretary
of the Treasury all functions currently
vested in Justice Department officials to
inspect persons, or the documents of
persons.
When the plan takes effect, it is my
intention to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to use the resources so trans-
ferred-including some 1,000 employees
of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to augment the staff and budget
of the Bureau of Customs. The Bureau's
primary responsibilities would then
include:
-inspection of all persons and goods
entering the United States;
-valuation of goods being imported,
and assessment of appropriate tariff
duties;
-interception of contraband being
smuggled into the United States;
-enforcement of U.S. laws governing
the international movement of goods,
except the investigation of contra-
band drugs and narcotics; and
-turning over the investigation re-
sponsibility for all drug law enforce-
ment cases to the Department of
Justice.
The reorganization would thus group
most port-of-entry inspection functions in
a single Cabinet department. It would re-
duce the need for much day-to-day inter-
departmental coordination, allow more
efficient staffing at some field locations,
and remove the basis for damaging inter-
agency rivalries. It would also give the
Secretary of the Treasury the authority
and flexibility to meet changing require-
ments in inspecting the international flow
of people and goods. An important by-
product of the change would be more
convenient service for travellers entering
and leaving the country.
For these reasons, I am convinced that
inspection activities at U.S. ports-of-entry
can more effectively support our drug law
enforcement efforts if concentrated in a
single agency. The processing of persons
at ports-of-entry is too closely interrelated
with the inspection of goods to remain
organizationally separated from it any
longer. Both types of inspections have
numerous objectives besides drug law en-
forcement, so it is logical to vest them in
the Treasury Department, which has long
had the principal responsibility for port-
of-entry inspection of goods, including
goods being transported in connection
with persons. As long as the inspections
are conducted with full awareness of re-
lated drug concerns it is neither neces-
sary nor desirable that they be made a
responsibility of the primary drug en-
forcement organization.
DECLARATIONS
After investigation, I have found that
each action included in Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1973 is necessary to accom-
plish one or more of the purposes set forth
in Section 901 (a) of Title 5 of the United
States Code. In particular, the plan is
responsive to the intention of the Con-
gress as expressed in Section 901(a)(1):
"to promote better execution of the laws,
more effective management of the execu
tive branch and of its agencies and func-
tions, and expeditious administration of
the public business;" Section 901(a)(3):
"to increase the efficiency of the opera-
tions of the Government to the fullest ex-
tent practicable:" Section 901(a)(5):
"to reduce the number of agencies by
consolidating those having similar func-
232
