[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
fishing industry, the United States has in-
centives to work toward a multilateral
fisheries agreement that takes into account
the world's supply of fisheries resources as
well as the differing interests of coastal
and distant water fishing nations.
We believe coastal states should have
special management authority and pref-
erential rights with regard to fisheries
stocks in their coastal waters or those
that spawn in their rivers. We have pro-
posed to make these rights correspond to
the biological characteristics of the fish
involved. Our proposal provides for broad
coastal state jurisdiction and preferences
over coastal and anadromous fisheries,
such as salmon, beyond the territorial sea,
with international standards for conserva-
tion, maximum utilization, equitable al-
location, and compulsory third-party
settlement of disputes. On the other hand,
our proposal provides that highly migra-
tory fish, such as tuna, would be regulated
by international organizations in which
all interested fishing and coastal states
could participate. We have suggested that
during the law of the sea negotiations a
formula be devised to determine what part
of the allowable catch is to be left to
traditional distant water fisheries.
If nations are to continue to gain the
knowledge required for fuller, wiser use
of the oceans, maximum freedom of scien-
tific research must be maintained, and de-
veloping countries should participate. The
United States has also proposed that the
Law of the Sea Conference develop draft
treaty articles on marine pollution to en-
sure that man's uses of the oceans pose
minimal risks to the marine environment.
The past year saw encouraging signs
that the international community as a
whole is beginning to understand the
pressing need to accommodate these di-
verse interests. This process must continue
and the United States will continue to
work with other concerned nations to meet
this challenge.
OUTER SPACE
Man's ventures into outer space pro-
vide a natural arena for international
cooperation. Such cooperation is not
merely helpful; in some cases it consti-
tutes the only practical means of realizing
the potential of space.
This Administration has worked
through both governmental and nongov-
ernmental organizations to realize the
technical, economic, and other benefits
offered by space activities. We are also
trying through both bilateral and interna-
tional channels to develop sound and
equitable legal arrangements to govern
such activities.
Our dramatic moon expeditions were
almost exclusively national ventures, but
they provided opportunities for signifi-
cant international involvement. Many ex-
periments developed in foreign labora-
tories were carried to the moon by our
Apollo spacecraft and more than a hun-
dred foreign scientists shared in the anal-
ysis of the lunar samples our Astro-
nauts brought back. We are now discuss-
ing international participation in our
post-Apollo space program, including
plans for a possible joint aeronautical
satellite experiment.
The American capability for launching
payloads into orbit has also made possible
a wide range of joint space efforts. To
date, we have launched sixteen satellites
developed by other countries or by in-
ternational organizations. I announced
last October that the United States would
provide launch assistance on a non-
508
