[135] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
while they develop a greater sense of self-
reliance and professional capability in
their own military services.
AID FOR INDOCHINA
The signing of cease-fire agreements
in Vietnam and Laos marks the begin-
ning of a trend toward a peaceful en-
vironment in Indochina. This change will
permit us to turn our attention to the con-
siderable post-war needs of Southeast
Asia. To ignore these needs would be to
risk the enormous investment we have
made in the freedom and independence
of the countries of Southeast Asia.
The legislation I am presenting today
would authorize the continuation of our
economic assistance to South Vietnam,
Laos and Cambodia and would provide
for a sound beginning in the process of
rehabilitation and reconstruction there.
I anticipate other nations will join in this
effort, as they have elsewhere, to solidify
the foundations for a new era of recon-
ciliation and progress in Southeast Asia.
Relief assistance for refugees of the war
in Southeast Asia is vital to this effort.
These refugees number in the hundreds
of thousands. In addition to their reset-
tlement, this Administration proposes a
major effort to help restore essential com-
munity services in areas which have suf-
fered because of the war.
In this bill, I ask the Congress to au-
thorize $632 million for the reconstruction
effort in Indochina in fiscal year 1974.
My present request does not include
any assistance for North Vietnam. It is
my hope that all parties will soon adhere
fully to the Paris agreements. If and when
that occurs, I believe that American as-
sistance for reconstruction and develop-
ment of both South and North Vietnam
would represent a sound investment in
confirming the peace.
Representatives of the United States
have recently been holding discussions
with representatives of the Government of
North Vietnam to assess economic con-
ditions there and to consider possible
forms of United States economic assist-
ance. This assessment has now been sus-
pended, pending clarification of North
Vietnam's intentions regarding imple-
mentation of the cease-fire. Once Hanoi
abandons its military efforts and the
assessment is complete, the question of
aid for North Vietnam will receive my
personal review and will be a subject for
Congressional approval.
For a quarter century, America has
borne a great burden in the service of
freedom in the world. As a result of our
efforts, in which we have been joined by
increasing numbers of free world nations,
the foundation has been laid for a struc-
ture of world peace. Our military forces
have left Vietnam with honor, our pris-
oners have returned to their families, and
there is a cease-fire in Vietnam and Laos,
although still imperfectly observed.
Our foreign assistance program re-
sponds to the needs of others as well as
our own national needs-neither of which
we can afford to ignore.
For our own sake-and for the sake of
world peace--I ask the Congress to give
these recommendations prompt and fa-
vorable consideration.
The White House,
May 1, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: Prior to transmitting the special mes-
sage, the President met with the bipartisan
leadership of the Congress to discuss its
contents.
336
