[178] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Congress stressed in the most definite terms
the Soviet Union's readiness to develop rela-
tions with the United States of America, pro-
ceeding from the assumption that this meets
both the interests of the Soviet and American
peoples and the interests of universal peace.
I would like our American partners and all
Americans to be fully aware that this decision
by the supreme forum of our Party, the ruling
party of the Soviet Union, reflects the funda-
mental position of principle of the Soviet
Government and of our entire people in mat-
ters bearing on relations with the United States
of America. And that determines the policy we
are pursuing.
In today's discussion with the President, I
spoke of the favorable feelings of our people in
all parts of the country as regards the decisions
taken last year during our summit meeting in
Moscow, and I spoke of the friendly feelings,
the desire of the Soviet people, for friendship
with the United States.
Now, Mr. President, the peoples are indeed
expecting a great deal from our new meeting.
And I believe it is our duty to live up to these
expectations. The first discussions we have had
with you here at the White House do, I feel,
confirm that this is the mutual desire of both
sides.
And I would venture in this connection to
express the hope, and even the confidence, that
our present meeting will play an important
role in further strengthening mutually advan-
tageous cooperation between our countries and
in improving the international climate as a
whole.
And let me make one more point. It is well
known that the initiated process of bettering
Soviet-American relations is evoking a broad
response throughout the world. Most comments.
indicate that the peoples and the governments
of other countries are welcoming this improve-
ment. And this is quite natural. They see in it
an encouraging factor for the invigoration of
the international situation as a whole, and a
major contribution by the U.S.S R. and the
U.S.A. to a stronger universal peace
It is absolutely clear to anyone who is at
least slightly familiar with the real course of
events, and with the real nature of the devel-
opment of Soviet-American relations, that their
improvement in no way prejudices the interests
of any third country.
Naturally, the development of good relations
between the Soviet Union and the United
States will have, and already has, no small a
bearing on world affairs. But this influence is
one that promotes the strengthening of peace,
security, and international cooperation. In
building through joint effort a new structure of
peaceful relations, we have no intention of
turning it into a secluded mansion completely
fenced off from the outside world. We want to
keep this spacious edifice open to all those who
cherish the peace and well-being of mankind.
Mr. President, present-day political realities
show in practice how arduous and toilful can at
times be the tasks involved in carrying out the
foreign policy of nations. But when our thoughts
and practical deeds are directed towards achiev
ing the noble goals of peace, the burden is
not oppressive, but rather gives strength and
confidence.
The start of our negotiations and I have
in mind both their content and the atmosphere
in which they are proceeding-gives reason to
hope that their results will be fruitful and will
become a new landmark in Soviet-American
relations.
Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to offer a
toast to the health of the President of the
United States of America and Mrs. Nixon, to
the health of all the members of the American
Government present here, to all Americans who
support the great and noble cause of peace
among nations.
598
