[8] Jan. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
sure the God-given right of every Ameri-
can to full and equal opportunity.
Because the range of our needs is so
great, because the reach of our opportuni-
ties is so great, let us be bold in our deter-
mination to meet those needs in new ways.
Just as building a structure of peace
abroad has required turning away from
old policies that have failed, so building
a new era of progress at home requires
turning away from old policies that have
failed.
Abroad, the shift from old policies to
new has not been a retreat from our re-
sponsibilities, but a better way to peace.
And at home, the shift from old poli-
cies to new will not be a retreat from
our responsibilities, but a better way to
progress.
Abroad and at home, the key to those
new responsibilities lies in the placing and
the division of responsibility. We have
lived too long with the consequences of
attempting to gather all power and re-
sponsibility in Washington.
Abroad and at home, the time has come
to turn away from the condescending poli-
cies of paternalism of "Washington
knows best."
A person can be expected to act re-
sponsibly only if he has responsibility.
This is human nature. So let us encourage
individuals at home and nations abroad to
do more for themselves, to decide more
for themselves. Let us locate responsibil-
ity in more places. And let us measure
what we will do for others by what they
will do for themselves.
That is why today I offer no promise
of a purely governmental solution for
every problem. We have lived too long
with that false promise. In trusting too
much in government, we have asked of it
more than it can deliver. This leads only
to inflated expectations, to reduced in-
dividual effort, and to a disappointment
and frustration that erode confidence both
in what government can do and in what
people can do.
Government must learn to take less
from people so that people can do more
for themselves.
Let us remember that America was
built not by government, but by people;
not by welfare, but by work; not by shirk-
ing responsibility, but by seeking
responsibility.
In our own lives, let each of us ask-
not just what will government do for me,
but what can I do for myself?
In the challenges we face together, let
each of us ask—not just how can govern-
ment help, but how can I help?
Your National Government has a great
and vital role to play. And I pledge to you
that where this Government should act,
we will act boldly and we will lead boldly.
But just as important is the role that each
and every one of us must play, as an in-
dividual and as a member of his own
community.
From this day forward, let each of us
make a solemn commitment in his own
heart: to bear his responsibility, to do his
part, to live his ideals-so that together
we can see the dawn of a new age of
progress for America, and together, as we
celebrate our 200th anniversary as a na-
tion, we can do so proud in the fulfillment
of our promise to ourselves and to the
world.
As America's longest and most difficult
war comes to an end, let us again learn to
debate our differences with civility and
decency. And let each of us reach out for
that one precious quality government can-
14
