Richard Nixon, 1973
II
Oct. 11 [292]
World War I was ended and then came
World War II, and after it was ended
came Korea, and after it was ended came
Vietnam. That is why I have always
spoken of the need not just to end the
war which we were in, the longest in
America's history, but to look far beyond
and to build a structure of peace in the
world that would last.
That is what the initiatives toward the
People's Republic of China and the initia-
tives toward the Soviet Union and the
initiatives toward the other Communist
countries in Europe were all about. They
had nothing to do with our deciding that
our system of government now was closer
in philosophy to theirs. We are still as
far apart as we ever were.
But what it has to do with is that unless
we do develop communications with, in-
cluding trade, with those people who live
in approximately one-half the world—
or half the people of the world live in
the nations that I have referred to unless
we have those channels of communica-
tions open, the inevitability of a confron-
tation somewhere down the line is almost
inescapable.
It is our chance, our opportunity to help
avoid that inevitable conflict. And you,
each in your way, wherever you move in
the world, I think, are contributing to the
possibility of building that structure of
peace that will last not just for a genera-
tion but beyond.
I should also add that I don't need
to tell a group of American businessmen
that the competitive situation in the world
is a lot different from what it was im-
mediately after World War II. It is hard
to realize that there are times we talked
about the dollar gap. It is hard to realize
that there were times when we could talk
about reciprocal trade when it was all,
"What is the United States going to do in
terms of opening its markets?" It is hard
to realize that there was a time-as a
matter of fact, not too long ago when I
was Vice President of the United States,
in 1958, talking to the President of Co-
lombia in South America, when he told
me, he said, "The trouble in the world
today is that what we have in terms of
world trade can be compared with a great
poker game. The United States has all
the chips and, consequently, nobody else
can play. And so what you must do is to
pass out some of the chips so the rest of us
can play."
Of course, he was speaking of foreign
aid, and he was also speaking of trade,
but now we realize that not only must the
United States play a responsible role in
seeing that trade barriers against goods
from abroad, which are unfair, are re-
duced but we must also play, as a govern-
ment, a very strong role in seeing that
American goods get a fair competitive
position all over the world.
We can't have the one-way street situ-
ation which presently exists in our rela-
tions with some countries. They know
that, and we, in our Government, under-
stand it very thoroughly.
You know, you sometimes wonder
about these Government people, people
like Mr. Eberle,¹ and the Secretary of the
Treasury and the people in the State De-
partment, and I have often heard busi-
nessmen say, "Who do they represent?
Do they represent us or do they represent
the foreign countries?"
Let me tell you this: These men in this
Government represent the United States
of America. They are going to speak up
1 William D. Eberle was Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations and Chairman of
the Trade Expansion Act Advisory Committee.
865
