[246] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
these proposals which, in effect, have as
their purpose increasing the domestic ca-
pacity of the United States to create its
energy, it means that we will be at the
mercy of the producers of oil in the
Mideast.
All of you ladies and gentlemen very
properly have been writing of your con-
cern about the developments in the Mid-
east which might cut off, or at least re-
duce, the supply of oil that goes to Europe
and to the United States. Under these
circumstances, to meet the problem of
energy it is essential that we move in these
energy areas that I have mentioned.
DOMESTIC PROGRAMS
[5] Finally, there is the area that I
could perhaps generally describe in the
words of Mr. Mel Laird as being the whole
domestic group of programs: the better
schools act, the better communities act,
and a new housing proposal that I will be
sending to the Congress within the next
2 weeks. These are only three of several.
I mention them because I think they are
of vital importance, and I am going to
urge the Congress to act on these pro-
posals so that the country, in this period of
peacetime, can begin to move forward
on what are these, really, achievements
and dividends for peace.
I could mention a number of other
areas, but the message will speak for itself.
I am simply suggesting in conclusion, at
this time, that we have had this year, as
far as the Congress is concerned, a dis-
appointing performance so far. I am not
placing individual blame on that. I am
simply saying we have 3 months left, and
I know that the Congress is usually a last
quarter team. In that last quarter, we
have to score a lot of points.
The Executive, the White House, all
the agencies of the Government will work
with the leaders of the Congress to move
forward on these initiatives for the people.
But it is time for us to turn to these initia-
tives that are in the interests of all the
people and turn to them on an urgent
basis.
QUESTIONS
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW AND GOVERNOR
CONNALLY
[6] I think Miss Thomas [Helen
Thomas, United Press International] has
the first question.
Q. Mr. President, you met with the
Vice President for 2 hours on Saturday.
One, can you tell us what you talked
about? Two, will you have any part in
any future legal moves against the Vice
President? And three, did you call John
Connally afterwards, as reported?
THE PRESIDENT. Let us start, Miss
Thomas, with the third part of the ques-
tion. It is easier to remember the end of
the question than the first.
As far as the third question, no, I have
not talked to Governor Connally as re-
ported, and I have not talked to him for
the past several weeks. Nothing should
be made of that one way or another, be-
cause I enjoy talking to the Governor, and
it is very possible I may be talking to him
in the future about energy or about a trip
that he is going to be making abroad to
various parts of the world, including the
Mideast and possibly to the Soviet Union.
Second, with regard to the Vice Presi-
dent, we did meet for 2 hours. It. of
course, is not appropriate for me to discuss
what the subject was. We went over a
number of matters of mutual interest in
which he has major responsibilities.
734
