Appendix B
October
26 The President announced the designation
of the delegation which represented him
at ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary
of the founding of the Republic of Turkey,
held at Ankara on October 29 and at Is-
tanbul on October 30 and 31. The mem-
bers of the delegation, with the rank of
Special Ambassador, were: Secretary of
Transportation Claude S. Brinegar, Per-
sonal Representative of the President, and
Ambassador William B. Macomber, Jr.,
Representative of the President.
30 The President met at Camp David with
Soviet Ambassador A. F. Dobrynin and
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger.
31 Ismail Fahmy, Acting Foreign Minister of
Egypt, met with the President at the White
House.
November
1 Members of the Republican Congressional
leadership met with the President at the
White House.
1 Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel met
with the President at the White House.
6 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House to discuss the fuel and energy
problems facing the Nation.
7 The White House announced that the Gov-
ernments of the United States and of Egypt
agreed in principle to resume diplomatic
relations at an early date. The two Govern-
ments also agreed that in the meantime,
the respective interests sections of the two
countries would be raised immediately to
the ambassadorial level. The Government
of Egypt named Ambassador Ashraf
Ghorbal. The United States designated
Ambassador Hermann Eilts.
8 Senator Marlow W. Cook met with the
President at the White House.
9 Republican National Chairman George H.
Bush met with the President at the White
House.
November
9 New members of the Council of Economic
Advisers, William J Fellner and Gary L.
Seevers, and their families met with the
President at the White House. Council
Chairman Herbert Stein was also present
at the meeting.
9 The President met at the White House with
a group of Republican Congressional lead-
ers for a discussion of the Watergate issue.
9 Ambassadors Victor C. McIntyre of Trini-
dad and Tobago, Ephraim Tsepa Manare
of the Kingdom of Lesotho, John Gerald
Molloy of Ireland, Gaston Banda-Bafiot of
the Central African Republic, Livingston
Basil Johnson of the Commonwealth of the
Bahamas, James Lawrence Funwayo Sime-
lane of the Kingdom of Swaziland, Søren
Christian Sommerfelt of the Kingdom of
Norway, and Walter Heitmann of the Re-
public of Chile presented their credentials
to the President in ceremonies in the Blue
Room at the White House.
12 In the first of a series of meetings held
throughout the week of November 12-16
with various Members of Congress and
other political leaders for discussions of the
Watergate issue, the President met sepa-
rately with:
-21 members of the Republican Coordi-
nating Committee at a breakfast meet-
ing, and
-six Senate Democrats and one Inde-
pendent.
12 Actor Chuck Connors called on the Pres-
ident at the White House prior to depart-
ing for a visit to the Soviet Union.
12 Senator Jacob K. Javits met with the
President at the White House to report on
the recent meeting of the North Atlantic
Assembly held in Ankara, Turkey, October
21-27.
13 The President held a meeting with 15 Sen-
ate Republicans at the White House to dis-
cuss the Watergate issue.
1084
