[188] June 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
other settlements or agreements we have
reached or seek to reach with other na-
tions. A serious blow to America's inter-
national credibility would have been
struck a blow that would be felt far
beyond Indochina.
I cannot permit the initiation of a proc-
ess which could demolish so substantially
the progress which has been made, and
the future relationships of the United
States with other nations.
However, I must emphasize that the
provisions of H.R. 7447, other than the
"Cambodia rider," contain a number of
appropriations that are essential to the
continuity of governmental operations. It
is critical that these appropriations be
enacted immediately.
By June 28, nine Government agencies
will have exhausted their authority to pay
the salaries and expenses of their em-
ployees. The disruptions that would be
caused by a break in the continuity of
government are serious and must be pre-
vented. For example, it will be impossible
to meet the payroll of the employees at
the Social Security Administration, which
will threaten to disrupt the flow of benefits
to 25 million persons.
But an even greater disservice to the
American people- and to all other peace
loving people--would be the enactment
of a measure which would seriously under-
mine the chances for a lasting peace in
Indochina and jeopardize our efforts to
create a stable, enduring structure of peace
around the world. It is to prevent such a
destructive development that I am return-
ing H.R. 7447 without my approval.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
June 27, 1973-
NOTE: The text of the veto message was re-
leased at San Clemente, Calif.
The House of Representatives sustained the
President's veto on June 27, 1973-
189 Statement About the Report of the National Tourism
Resources Review Commission. June 28, 1973
IN 1971, I appointed the National Tour-
ism Resources Review Commission to
undertake the first comprehensive study
ever made of tourism in America. Its
Chairman was the former Secretary of the
Navy, Charles S. Thomas.
Today I have had the pleasure of meet-
ing with Mr. Thomas and receiving the
Commission's report. This document,
"Destination USA," should better enable
us to comprehend the vast potential of
tourism, a massive and underestimated
force in our economic and social life. The
report finds, for example:
-That tourism spending by Americans
in 1970 totaled $50 billion, a 100 percent
increase over 1960:
That by 1980 that figure could more
than double again to a projected $127
billion:
-And that international tourism is a
significant factor in world trade. In recent
years some $3 billion has been added to
the United States balance of payments
deficit by the spending of American
tourists abroad.
It is estimated that Americans took
361.2 million trips here and abroad in
1967, the last year in which a travel census
count was taken, and we know the figure
622
