[281] Oct. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
that is that we simply cannot have gov-
ernments, small or large, give in to inter-
national blackmail by terrorist groups.
That is what is involved.
Not to mention, of course, the fact that
we all have a concern for the emigrees.
They must have a place to come. So, on
humanitarian grounds and on geopoliti-
cal grounds of the highest order, I be-
lieve that that decision should be recon-
sidered, but naturally, I am not going to
put my friend, Mr. Kreisky, in the posi-
tion of trying to dictate to him what it
should be.
Now, you go ahead with your question.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[10.] Q. Sir, there is at least the pos-
sibility that if you don't give up the
Watergate tapes, some of the cases or po-
tential cases against your former aides
might be aborted. I wonder if you are
concerned about this and, further,
whether you might see some room for
compromise in the appellate court sug-
gestion?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, since the ap-
pellate court is still considering the mat-
ter, it would be inappropriate for me to
talk about what should be done with re-
gard to compromise. As you know, discus-
sions, extended discussions, took place be-
tween Mr. Buzhardt and the Special Pros-
ecutor in this respect, and they agreed to
disagree.³
'On September 20, 1973, the White House
issued a letter from Charles Alan Wright, con-
sultant to the Counsel to the President, to Hugh
E. Kline, United States Court of Appeals Clerk,
which reported the failure to reach a com-
promise on examination of the subpoenaed
Presidential tape recordings The text of the
letter is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 1166),
As far as the tapes are concerned, I
have stated my position, and I restate it
again today. The position is that the con-
fidentiality of Presidential discussions
must be maintained. And whether it is a
Presidential paper, a memorandum of
conversation prepared by a member of his
staff after meeting with the President, or
whether it is a tape of a conversation, it
is the responsibility of the President, with
regard to the separation-of-powers prin-
ciple, to defend the integrity of those con-
versations so that Presidents in the future
will be able to conduct freewheeling, ex-
tended conversations with no holds barred
with foreign visitors and, of course, with
those who come to see him from the
United States.
UNEMPLOYMENT AND INFLATION
[11] Q. Mr. President, do you agree
with the proposition put forth by your
CEA nominee, Mr. Fellner,' that the
country will have to abandon its goal of
4 percent unemployment and move to 5
percent, or perhaps higher, to fight
inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed Mr. Fell-
ner's rather, shall we say, outspoken com-
ments and also his comments with regard
to Phase IV, where he said he thought
that we should apparently-at least the
press indicated that he thought that we
should junk Phase IV pretty soon, or
sooner than we certainly intend to do so.
Before answering that question, let me
say that I have found that economists are
the most independent breed of the human
species, except for members of the press.
And the reason for that is that the Ameri-
'William J Fellner was nominated to be a
member of the Council of Economic Advisers
on September 25, 1973-
844
