Richard Nixon, 1973
July 1 [194]
adviser, Virginia Knauer, has been meet-
ing with the consumer groups; the Coun-
cil of Economic Advisers has been meeting
with professional economists; and we
have been in continuing discussion with
business and labor leaders. Tomorrow, the
Director of the Cost of Living Council, Dr.
John Dunlop, will meet in San Francisco
with key executives of the food, paper,
electronics, and other industries from the
west coast, and also with consumer repre-
sentatives. Similar meetings will be held
in other regional centers.
Meanwhile, at my instruction, a profit
and price check is being run on all com-
panies with annual sales of more than $50
million—a total of 3,100 companies. Any
whose price increases since January can-
not be justified by cost increases will be
required to roll back their prices. The in-
formation developed in this "profit sweep"
is also providing valuable data for use in
designing Phase IV.
Gasoline prices are among those that
have caused the greatest concern. A
special check by the Cost of Living Coun-
cil has identified more than 1,000 gas
stations that have raised their prices above
the levels permitted, and those prices have
been rolled back. Holding down the price
of gasoline and other fuels requires insur-
ing adequate supplies.
Last Friday I announced a number of
major additional steps to help meet our
energy needs:
-I appointed Governor John Love
head of a new high-level White House
energy office;
-I asked the Congress to create a new
Cabinet department devoted to energy
and natural resources and a new inde-
pendent Energy Research and Develop-
ment Administration;
-I announced a new $10 billion
pro-
gram of energy research and development
to extend over the next 5 years; and,
-I ordered a 7 percent reduction in
energy consumption by the Federal Gov-
ernment over the next 12 months.
I have already submitted to the Con-
gress a number of essential proposals to
help increase energy supplies and thereby
keep prices down. These include the
Alaska pipeline, competitive pricing of
natural gas, licensing of deepwater ports,
streamlining of powerplant siting, and a
rational framework for controls over sur-
face mining. I again urge quick action by
the Congress on these proposals.
For several years now there has been a
rapid rate of inflation throughout the
Western World. For the year ended in
April, consumer prices in the United
States rose substantially less than they did
in Great Britain, France, West Germany,
Canada, or Japan. With expanding inter-
national trade, these inflationary pressures
abroad contribute to the inflationary pres-
sures at home. When prices elsewhere rise,
scarce goods chase more profitable mar-
kets abroad, rather than being offered in
the United States.
Within the past year, our agricultural
exports alone have increased by 50 per-
cent, from less than $8 billion to nearly
$12 billion. At the same time, the Nation's
farmers were suffering in 1972 from some
of the worst weather for crops and live-
stock that America has ever experienced.
Output is now rising; prospects for this
year are generally good.
For example, the wheat crop this year
is expected to be the biggest ever. The
many measures we have taken to increase
the supply of farm commodities—includ-
ing the release of more than 40 million
additional acres for farm production—
will eventually bring more farm products
633
