Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
their decisionmaking and manage-
ment processes, allowing responsi-
bility to be shifted increasingly to
these officials, while the Federal Gov-
ernment concentrates on those activi-
ties which cannot be accomplished
more effectively by the private sec-
tor or other levels of government.
Despite the halt in new commitments,
federally assisted activity will continue at
a high level. Subsidized housing starts in
calendar year 1973 will increase over the
previous year, totaling 270,000. Approxi-
mately 1,800 urban renewal projects will
still be active. Federal outlays on these
uncompleted housing and community de-
velopment projects will rise from $4.0 bil-
lion in 1973 to $4.9 billion in 1974.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT.-The
budget consolidates and reorients our
rural development programs.
1974
While I would have preferred that the
Congress enact special revenue sharing
for rural development, the Rural Develop-
ment Act of 1972 provides a basis for be-
ginning efforts consistent with the reve-
nue sharing concept. In particular, State
and local officials will have greater con-
trol in project decisions. Rural develop-
ment programs as a whole will increase
over last year, with loan programs grow-
ing particularly rapidly.
I intend to watch closely our experience
with this new approach and then consider
whether additional legislation may be
needed to make it more effective.
The counterpart to proceeding with the
new authorities is the consolidation, termi-
nation, or reorientation of older programs.
Public works and related economic de-
velopment programs of the Department of
Commerce will be phased out in favor of
programs established under the Rural De-
velopment Act and Small Business Ad-
ministration authorities. Loans to improve
rural electric and telephone service will
be available on an even larger scale-but
at reduced cost to taxpayers-through the
loan authority of the Rural Development
Act and through the new Rural Tele-
phone Bank.
TRANSPORTATION.-The Federal role
in transportation is significant but limited.
It must insure that national needs, such
as the Interstate Highway System and
airway control, are met. Otherwise, the
primary responsibilities rest with the
States, local governments, and the pri-
vate sector, while the Federal Govern-
ment provides financial support.
Last year, the Administration supported
legislation that recognized this proper
Federal role. It proposed providing flexi-
bility at the State and local level in meet-
ing mass transit and highway needs and
avoiding narrow categorical grants. The
legislation narrowly failed to be enacted.
I will propose legislation incorporating
the same principles again this year. The
legislation and this budget propose a
broad $1 billion program to aid urban
mass transit capital investment and suf-
ficient funds for the Interstate Highway
System to insure completion of the system
in a reasonable time.
The safety of our transportation systems
is a matter of paramount importance. I
have directed that Federal safety efforts
for all modes of transportation be
intensified.
CRIME PREVENTION AND CRIMINAL
JUSTICE. Helping State and local crimi-
nal justice agencies fight crime in our cities
and towns continues to be a major com-
mitment of my Administration.
Outlays for law enforcement activities
will be $2.6 billion in 1974, a 72% in-
crease over 1973. This increase reflects my
31-870 - 75 - 7
47
