Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 26 [312]
THE NATION'S CONFIDENCE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, in 1968, before
you were elected, you wrote that too many
shocks can drain a nation of its energy
and even cause a rebellion against crea-
tive change and progress. Do you think
America is at that point now?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that many
would speculate-I have noted a lot on
the networks, particularly, and sometimes
even in the newspapers. But this is a very
strong country, and the American people,
I think, can ride through the shocks that
they have the difference now from what
it was in the days of shocks, even when
Mr. Lisagor and I first met 25 years ago,
is the electronic media.
I have never heard or seen such out-
rageous, vicious, distorted reporting in 27
years of public life. I am not blaming
anybody for that. Perhaps what happened
is that what we did brought it about, and
therefore, the media decided that they
would have to take that particular line.
But when people are pounded night
after night with that kind of frantic,
hysterical reporting, it naturally shakes
their confidence. And yet, I should point
out that even in this week, when many
thought that the President was shell-
shocked, unable to act, the President acted
decisively in the interests of peace, in the
interests of the country, and I can assure
you that whatever shocks gentlemen of
the press may have, or others, political
people, these shocks will not affect me in
my doing my job.
THE MIDDLE EAST CRISIS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, getting back to
the Middle East crisis for a moment, do
you consider that the crisis is over now,
and how much longer will the American
forces be kept on alert around the world?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
alert, the alert has already been discon-
tinued with regard to NORAD, that is,
the North American [Air Defense] Com-
mand, and with regard to SAC [Strategic
Air Command]. As far as other forces are
concerned, they are being maintained in a
state of readiness, and obviously, Soviet
Union forces are being maintained in a
state of readiness.
Now, as far as the crisis in the Mideast
is concerned, I don't want to leave any
impression that we aren't going to con-
tinue to have problems with regard to the
cease-fire. There will be outbreaks be-
cause of the proximity of the antagonistic
forces, and there will be some very, very
tough negotiating in attempting to reach
a diplomatic settlement. But I think now
that all parties are going to approach this
problem of trying to reach a settlement
with a more sober and a more determined
attitude than ever before, because the
Mideast can't afford-Israel can't afford,
Egypt can't afford, Syria can't afford-
another war. The world cannot afford a
war in that part of the world. And be-
cause the Soviet Union and the United
States have potentially conflicting inter-
ests there, we both now realize that we
cannot allow our differences in the Mid-
east to jeopardize even greater interests
that we have, for example, in continuing
a détente in Europe, in continuing the
negotiations which can lead to a limita-
tion of nuclear arms and eventually reduc-
ing the burden of nuclear arms, and
in continuing in other ways that can con-
tribute to the peace of the world.
As a matter of fact, I would suggest
901
