Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
invest in housing. I believe this special
problem can be met through the recom-
mendations I described in my message of
August 3rd.
But structural difficulties are only part
of the problem. A number of additional
factors also help explain why mortgage
money is becoming so expensive.
One major cause is the housing boom
itself, which has led to unprecedented de-
mands for credit-and rising costs for
money. In addition, inflationary fears
have influenced lenders to raise their
interest rates as a matter of self protection.
Finally, the Federal Reserve Board has
been working to restrict the money sup-
ply in order to fight inflation. Such re-
strictions are important, for without them
we might win the immediate battle in
housing but lose the long-range war in the
rest of the economy, including the housing
field.
But even as we pursue a responsible
monetary policy, we must avoid choking
off the consumer credit which families re-
quire to meet their needs. That would
also be dangerous to the economy. I am
particularly concerned that the burdens
of fighting inflation not fall unfairly on
those who want to buy a home or sell
one.
We have a delicate and difficult balance
to maintain. We cannot relent in the fight
against inflation, which is our number one
domestic problem. Nor can we expect to
insulate housing from the effects of that
effort. In fact, all of our measures to con-
trol inflation-including our efforts to
hold down Federal spending-are essen-
tial in keeping down both the price of
housing and the price of money in the
long run. This requirement necessarily
limits what can be prudently done to stim-
ulate housing credit in the short run.
Nevertheless, there are some actions
that can be taken on the credit front-
and I intend to take them. In fact, we
have already launched a number of ef-
forts. The Committee on Interest and
Dividends has instituted voluntary guide-
lines designed to encourage banks to keep
up their levels of mortgage lending. The
Federal Reserve Board has engaged in
similar efforts. The Federal National
Mortgage Association has stepped up its
mortgage commitment and purchasing
operations to free up funds for further
lending. The Federal Home Loan Bank
Board has lowered the reserve require-
ments for lending operations of its member
institutions and has stepped up its ad-
vancement of funds to them.
I am today announcing a number of
additional administrative actions and
legislative proposals designed to do two
things: first, to help alleviate the imme-
diate housing credit problem; and second,
to improve for the longer term the sup-
ply of housing credit and the ability of our
people to use it.
EASING CURRENT CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Increasing the incentive for savings
and loan associations to finance housing
construction.
As money has become tighter, sav-
ings and loan institutions have become in-
creasingly reluctant to commit housing
construction loans for delivery at future
dates. The reason is their uncertainty as
to whether they will have enough funds
to lend then at the interest rates which
exist now.
Accordingly, the Federal Home Loan
Bank Board will authorize a new program
of "forward commitments" to savings and
loan associations, promising to loan
803
