[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
review later the already shortened
sentence of another American pris-
oner. The pilots were released on
March 15, 1973, while the other
American was released early on
March 10, 1973-
We thus moved decisively from the
conceptual to the concrete. What was
theoretically desirable was increasingly
being practiced. What was still partly ten-
tative and experimental would now be
reinforced and expanded. What was in-
direct could now be made direct.
Several factors contributed to this
major advance in our relationship:
-Eighteen months of authoritative
and wide-ranging discussions had
made clear to each side the other's
philosophy and principles. We both
decided that our shared interests in
bettering relations, outweighed our
differences on specific questions.
Where differences existed, we had
found ways to accommodate them
without sacrificing principles.
-Since the initial openings, the two
sides had established considerable
reliability in our dealings, both bi-
lateral and multilateral.
-Implementation of the Shanghai
Communique had proceeded satis-
factorily, and it was agreed that new
steps were required to accelerate
progress. Both we and the Chinese
believed that it was important to
institutionalize our new relationship.
-Finally, while most of these factors
had been developing for many
months, the Vietnam War had still
inhibited our progress. With the
achievement of a negotiated settle-
ment, the major obstacle to improved
relations was removed.
OUR FUTURE COURSE
In my first term we moved a long way
with the People's Republic of China.
Together we have revived our historic
association, set a new direction, and
launched a purposeful process.
We are resolved to continue on this
course. We are under no illusions, how-
ever, that its development is inexorable.
There will be a continuing need for metic-
ulousness and reliability for although
we have come a remarkable distance, two
decades of blanket hostility cannot be
erased completely in two years. In any
event, our ideologies and views of history
will continue to differ profoundly. These
differences, in turn, will be translated into
opposing policies on some issues which
will continue to require mutual restraint
and accommodation. And over the longer
term the inevitable changes in the world
environment will continually inject new
factors that could test our relationship.
We nevertheless remain basically con-
fident that relations between the United
States and the People's Republic of China
will continue to develop in a positive di-
rection. The driving force behind this
process is not personalities, or atmosphere,
or a sense of adventure, or transitory tac-
ticial benefits. Our two nations undertook
this course in full knowledge of our dif-
ferences. We chose to change our relation-
ship because this served our fundamental
national purposes.
America maintains its historic concern
for an independent and peaceful China.
We see in this prospect nothing inimical
to our interests. Indeed, we consider it to
be strongly in the interest of regional and
world stability. China, in turn, has noth-
ing to fear from America's strength. The
364
