Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 14 [79]
system the serious crime rate has been
cut in half in Washington, D.C. From a
peak rate of more than 200 serious crimes
per day reached during one month in
1969, the figure has been cut by more
than half to 93 per day for the latest
month of record in 1973. Felony prosecu-
tions have increased from 2100 to 3800,
and the time between arrest and trial for
felonies has fallen from ten months to less
than two.
Because of the combined efforts of Fed-
eral, State, and local agencies, the wave of
serious crime in the United States is being
brought under control. Latest figures
from the FBI's Uniform Crime Index
show that serious crime is increasing at
the rate of only one percent a year-the
lowest recorded rate since 1960. A major-
ity of cities with over 100,000 population
have an actual reduction in crime.
These statistics and these indices sug-
gest that our anti-crime program is on the
right track. They suggest that we are tak-
ing the right measures. They prove that
the only way to attack crime in America is
the way crime attacks our people-with-
out pity. Our program is based on this
philosophy, and it is working.
Now we intend to maintain the mo-
mentum we have developed by taking
additional steps to further improve law
enforcement and to further protect the
people of the United States.
LAW ENFORCEMENT SPECIAL REVENUE
SHARING
Most crime in America does not fall
under Federal jurisdiction. Those who
serve in the front lines of the battle
against crime are the State and local law
enforcement authorities. State and local
police are supported in turn by many
other elements of the criminal justice sys-
tem, including prosecuting and defending
attorneys, judges, and probation and cor-
rections officers. All these elements need
assistance and some need dramatic re-
form, especially the prison systems.
While the Federal Government does
not have full jurisdiction in the field of
criminal law enforcement, it does have
a broad, constitutional responsibility to
insure domestic tranquility. I intend to
meet that responsibility.
At my direction, the Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration (LEAA) has
greatly expanded its efforts to aid in the
improvement of State and local criminal
justice systems. In the last three years of
the previous Administration, Federal
grants to State and local law enforcement
authorities amounted to only $22 million.
In the first three years of my Administra-
tion, this same assistance totaled more
than $1.5 billion-more than 67 times as
much. I consider this money to be an in-
vestment in justice and safety on our
streets, an investment which has been
yielding encouraging dividends.
But the job has not been completed.
We must now act further to improve the
Federal role in the granting of aid for
criminal justice. Such improvement can
come with the adoption of Special Reve-
nue Sharing for law enforcement.
I believe the transition to Special Reve-
nue Sharing for law enforcement will be
a relatively easy one. Since its inception,
the LEAA has given block grants which
allow State and local authorities some-
what greater discretion than does the old-
fashioned categorical grant system. But
States and localities still lack both the
flexibility and the clear authority they
need in spending Federal monies to meet
their law enforcement challenges.
193
