Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [234]
me, and by the Cabinet, senior members
of the White House Staff, and a number
of legislative leaders, Attorney General
Kleindienst reported on the investigation.
He informed us that it had been the most
intensive investigation since the assassi-
nation of President Kennedy and that
it had been established that no one at the
White House, and no higher-ups in the
campaign committee, were involved. His
report seemed to be confirmed by the
action of the grand jury on September 15,
when it indicted only the five persons ar-
rested at the Watergate, plus Messrs.
Liddy and Hunt.
Those indictments also seemed to me
to confirm the validity of the reports that
Mr. Dean had been providing to me,
through other members of the White
House Staff-and on which I had based
my August 29 statement that no one then
employed at the White House was in-
volved. It was in that context that I met
with Mr. Dean on September 15, and he
gave me no reason at that meeting to be-
lieve any others were involved.
Not only was I unaware of any coverup,
but at that time, and until March 21, I
was unaware that there was anything to
cover up.
Then and later, I continued to have
full faith in the investigations that had
been conducted and in the reports I had
received, based on those investigations.
On February 16, I met with Mr. Gray
prior to submitting his name to the Senate
for confirmation as permanent Director
of the FBI. I stressed to him that he would
be questioned closely about the FBI's con-
duct of the Watergate investigation and
asked him if he still had full confidence in
it. He replied that he did, that he was
proud of its thoroughness, and that he
could defend it with enthusiasm.
My interest in Watergate rose in Feb-
ruary and March as the Senate committee
was organized and the hearings were held
on the Gray nomination. I began meeting
frequently with my Counsel, Mr. Dean, in
connection with those matters. At that
time, on a number of occasions, I urged
my staff to get all the facts out, because
I was confident that full disclosure of the
facts would show that persons in the White
House and at the Committee for the Re-
Election of the President were the victims
of unjustified innuendoes in the press. I
was searching for a way to disclose all of
the facts without disturbing the confi-
dentiality of communications with and
among my personal staff, since that con-
fidentiality is essential to the functioning
of any President.
It was on March 21 that I was given
new information that indicated that the
reports I had been getting were not true.
I was told then for the first time that the
planning of the Watergate break-in went
beyond those who had been tried and con-
victed and that at least one, and possibly
more, persons at the Re-Election Com-
mittee were involved. It was on that day
also that I learned of some of the activities
upon which charges of coverup are now
based. I was told then that funds had been
raised for payments to the defendants,
with the knowledge and approval of per-
sons both on the White House Staff and
at the Re-Election Committee. But I was
only told that the money had been used
for attorneys' fees and family support, not
that it had been paid to procure silence
from the recipients. I was also told that a
member of my staff had talked to one of
the defendants about clemency, but not
that offers of clemency had been made. I
was told that one of the defendants was
currently attempting to blackmail the
699
