Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
serves of coal are located within the
United States. This resource alone would
be enough to provide for our energy needs
for well over a century. We have potential
resources of billions of barrels of recover-
able oil, similar quantities of shale oil and
more than 2,000 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas. Properly managed, and with
more attention on the part of consumers
to the conservation of energy, these sup-
plies can last for as long as our economy
depends on conventional fuels.
In addition to natural fuels, we can
draw upon hydroelectric plants and in-
creasing numbers of nuclear powered fa-
cilities. Moreover, long before our present
energy sources are exhausted, America's
vast capabilities in research and develop-
ment can provide us with new, clean and
virtually unlimited sources of power.
Thus, we should not be misled into
pessimistic predictions of an energy dis-
aster. But neither should we be lulled into
a false sense of security. We must examine
our circumstances realistically, carefully
weigh the alternatives-and then move
forward decisively.
WEIGHING THE ALTERNATIVES
Over 90 percent of the energy we con-
sume today in the United States comes
from three sources: natural gas, coal and
petroleum. Each source presents us with a
different set of problems.
Natural gas is our cleanest fuel and is
most preferred in order to protect our
environment, but ill-considered regula-
tions of natural gas prices by the Federal
Government have produced a serious and
increasing scarcity of this fuel.
We have vast quantities of coal, but the
extraction and use of coal have presented
such persistent environmental problems
that, today, less than 20 percent of our
energy needs are met by coal and the
health of the entire coal industry is seri-
ously threatened.
Our third conventional resource is oil,
but domestic production of available oil
is no longer able to keep pace with
demands.
In determining how we should expand
and develop these resources, along with
others such as nuclear power, we must
take into account not only our economic
goals, but also our environmental goals
and our national security goals. Each of
these areas is profoundly affected by our
decisions concerning energy.
If we are to maintain the vigor of our
economy, the health of our environment,
and the security of our energy resources,
it is essential that we strike the right bal-
ance among these priorities.
The choices are difficult, but we can-
not refuse to act because of this. We can-
not stand still simply because it is difficult
to go forward. That is the one choice
Americans must never make.
The energy challenge is one of the great
opportunities of our time. We have
already begun to meet that challenge, and
realize its opportunities.
NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY
In 1971, I sent to the Congress the first
message on energy policies ever submitted
by an American President. In that mes-
sage I proposed a number of specific steps
to meet our projected needs by increasing
our supply of clean energy in America.
Those steps included expanded re-
search and development to obtain more
clean energy, increased availability of
31-870 O-75-23
303
