[23] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
not just as the leaders spoke to me the
other day but by veto, overwhelming in
both Houses, President Truman im-
pounded the money. He did not spend it.
And he had a right to. The constitutional
right for the President of the United
States to impound funds---and that is not
to spend money, when the spending of
money would mean either increasing
prices or increasing taxes for all the peo-
ple-that right is absolutely clear.
The problem we have here is basically
that the Congress wants responsibility,
they want to share responsibility. Believe
me, it would be pleasant to have more
sharing of responsibility by the Congress.
But if you are going to have responsibility,
you have to be responsible, and this Con-
gress-and some of the more thoughtful
Members of Congress and that includes
most of the leadership, in the very good
give-and-take we had the other day-this
Congress has not been responsible on
money.
We simply had this. There is a clear
choice. We either cut spending or raise
taxes and I made a little check before the
leaders meeting. I checked on the cam-
paigns of everybody who had run for of-
fice across this country, Democrat and Re-
publican. I didn't find one Member of
Congress, liberal or conservative, who had
campaigned on the platform of raising
taxes in order that we could spend more.
Now the point is, the Congress has to
decide, does it want to raise taxes in
order to spend more or does it want to
cut, as the President is trying to cut? The
difficulty, of course-and I have been a
Member of Congress--is that the Congress
represents special interests.
The Interior Committee wants to have
more parks and the Agriculture Commit-
tee wants cheap REA loans and the HEW
Committee or the Education and Labor
Committee wants more for education and
the rest, and each of these wants we all
sympathize with. But there is only one
place in this Government where somebody
has got to speak not for the special inter-
ests which the Congress represents but for
the general interest.
The general interest of this country, the
general interest, whether it be rich or poor
or old, is don't break the family budget by
raising the taxes or raising prices, and I
am going to stand for that general interest.
Therefore, I will not spend money if the
Congress overspends, and I will not be for
programs that will raise the taxes and put
a bigger burden on the already over-
burdened American taxpayer.
AMERICAN PRISONERS IN CHINA
[13] Q. Mr. President, there are two
American fliers still being held prisoner in
China, and they are sort of in limbo-
well, three Americans but two fliers. I
wonder if you could give us their status,
and do you expect them to be returned
with the other prisoners?
THE PRESIDENT. This matter we dis-
cussed when we were in the People's
Republic of China, and we have every
reason to believe that these fliers will be
released on the initiative of the People's
Republic of China as the POW situation
is worked out in Vietnam.
I won't go beyond that because this is
a matter that should be left to the People's
Republic of China, but we have, we be-
lieve, every assurance that will happen.
Q. Downey, also?
THE PRESIDENT. Downey is a different
case, as you know. Downey involves a CIA
62
