[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tory manifestations by responding to posi-
tive efforts and demonstrating firmness in
the face of pressures. I opened a direct
channel to the Soviet leaders so we could
discuss the issues frankly and privately.
The first phase, lasting throughout 1969,
was marked by obvious caution, as we
made only limited progress in engaging
major issues but achieved some improve-
ment in the tone of exchanges. In the
spring of 1970 we agreed to negotiate on
Berlin, and the Strategic Arms Limitations
Talks (SALT) moved from initial explo-
rations to concrete discussions.
A period of tension, however, occurred
in 1970 over the Soviet role in Egyptian
ceasefire violations in the Middle East, the
Syrian attack on Jordan, and Soviet naval
activities in Cuba. Similar tension arose
from the crisis in the Indian subcontinent
for a period in late 1971. Such develop-
ments gave us grounds for serious concern,
and we reacted vigorously.
At the same time, the Soviet Union
pursued a policy of relaxing tensions in
Europe, suggesting that its strategy was to
differentiate between the United States
and our allies. This tactic, however, had
limited potential since European issues
were inseparable from the strategic frame-
work of U.S.-Soviet relations. Moreover,
the Soviet emphasis on certain bilateral
relations lacked a general European
framework, which could not be developed
without the United States or without con-
sidering the impact of a controlled relaxa-
tion of tensions in East Europe.
THE ROAD TO THE SUMMIT
Thus we passed through a series of epi-
sodes that gave the Soviet Union no ad-
vantage and achieved no fundamental
change. In each phase we sought to dem-
onstrate the wisdom of restraint and
the dangers of its absence. At the end of
1970, it appeared that the tensions in
U.S.-Soviet relations might lead the
Soviet leaders to reconsider their rela-
tions with the United States. I felt that an
opportune moment had arrived for new
initiatives to end tactical maneuvering
and to move toward accommodation.
Despite the erratic developments of
1969 and 1970, some positive trends were
evident. As I said at the United Nations
in the fall of 1970, we shared certain
compelling common interests, above all
an interest in reducing the dangers of
war. That the Soviet Union shared this
concern was reflected in the continuation
of the negotiations on strategic arms limi-
tations, the mutual willingness to pursue
an agreement on Berlin and the insula-
tion of these serious issues from develop-
ments in Southeast Asia.
In the winter of 1970-71 Soviet leaders
were looking toward their Party Con-
gress, where broad policy guidelines are
usually enunciated. It appeared at the
time, and even more clearly in retrospect,
that the broad changes in the nature of
international relations, as well as their
experience of the previous two years in
relations with us, were having an impact
on their preparations. It was thus a prom-
ising moment to delineate the progress
that could be made if certain decisions
were taken.
-SALT negotiations were temporarily
deadlocked over whether to negotiate
an agreement limiting anti-ballistic
missiles (ABMs) alone, as the Soviets
insisted, or an agreement embracing
both defensive and offensive limits.
For the United States, it was essen-
tial that an initial SALT agreement
should begin to break the momentum
368
