[185] June 25 Public Papers of the Presidents
III. INTERNATIONAL QUESTIONS: THE
REDUCTION OF TENSIONS AND
STRENGTHENING OF INTERNATIONAL
SECURITY
President Nixon and General Secretary
Brezhnev reviewed major questions of the
current international situation. They gave
special attention to the developments
which have occurred since the time of
the US-Soviet summit meeting in Mos-
cow. It was noted with satisfaction that
positive trends are developing in inter-
national relations toward the further re-
laxation of tensions and the strengthening
of cooperative relations in the interests of
peace. In the opinion of both Sides, the
current process of improvement in the
international situation creates new and
favorable opportunities for reducing ten-
sions, settling outstanding international
issues, and creating a permanent structure
of peace.
INDOCHINA
The two Sides expressed their deep
satisfaction at the conclusion of the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Vietnam, and also at the results
of the International Conference on Viet-
nam which approved and supported that
Agreement.
The two Sides are convinced that the
conclusion of the Agreement on Ending
the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam,
and the subsequent signing of the Agree-
ment on Restoring Peace and Achieving
National Concord in Laos, meet the fun-
damental interests and aspirations of the
peoples of Vietnam and Laos and open
up a possibility for establishing a lasting
peace in Indochina, based on respect for
the independence, sovereignty, unity and
territorial integrity of the countries of
that area. Both Sides emphasized that
these agreements must be strictly imple-
mented.
They further stressed the need to bring
an early end to the military conflict in
Cambodia in order to bring peace to the
entire area of Indochina. They also re-
affirmed their stand that the political fu-
tures of Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia
should be left to the respective peoples to
determine, free from outside interference
EUROPE
In the course of the talks both Sides
noted with satisfaction that in Europe the
process of relaxing tensions and develop-
ing cooperation is actively continuing and
thereby contributing to international
stability.
The two Sides expressed satisfaction
with the further normalization of rela-
tions among European countries resulting
from treaties and agreements signed in
recent years, particularly between the
USSR and the FRG [Federal Republic
of Germany]. They also welcome the com-
ing into force of the Quadripartite Agree-
ment of September 3, 1971. They share
the conviction that strict observance of
the treaties and agreements that have been
concluded will contribute to the security
and well-being of all parties concerned.
They also welcome the prospect of
United Nations membership this year for
the FRG and the GDR [German Demo-
cratic Republic] and recall, in this con-
nection, that the USA, USSR, UK and
France have signed the Quadripartite
Declaration of November 9, 1972. on this
subject.
The USA and the USSR reaffirm their
desire, guided by the appropriate provi-
sions of the Joint US-USSR Communi-
614
