Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 13 [357]
tion, House of Representatives, Washington,
D.C. 20515]
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's personal financial transactions. Par-
ticipants in the news briefing were Ronald L.
Ziegler, Press Secretary to the President; Ken-
neth W. Gemmill, White House Counsel's
Office; and Arthur Blech, the President's tax
accountant.
356 Remarks on Signing a Bill Establishing the American
Revolution Bicentennial Administration.
December 11, 1973
I WANT to express my appreciation to
the Members of the House and the Mem-
bers of the Senate who have worked so
very effectively in getting this legislation
passed, and also my appreciation to the
members of the Commission, which of
course will now be replaced by this Ad-
ministration and by an Administrator who
will head the Administration that I will
be soon appointing.
It is hard to realize that this piece of
legislation will not come into fulfillment
or culmination until the year 1976, but
when we think of what a tremendously
momentous event that is, our planning,
which has already begun, has to be very
far-reaching, and it has to be begun early.
As a matter of fact, I would say now that
at this point we have to put certainly
more emphasis than we have in the past
on having some progress in developing
our plans, because 1976 is going to be here
very, very soon.
Nineteen seventy-six normally would be
of interest in any event, because it is a
Presidential election year, but being the
200th anniversary of the United States of
America, in terms of our Declaration of
Independence, it seems to me that it will
have the greatest significance of any cele-
bration of this type that this country has
ever had. And all of you helped, it seems
to me, and this you can be remembered
for, as well as many other things you have
done for your country.
You have helped by giving us the legis-
lation which will then create a monument,
we trust, that the whole Nation can see, a
monument of what America has meant for
its first 200 years and what it can mean
for the next 200 years.
So thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:13 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 7446) is Public
Law 93-179 (87 Stat. 697).
357 Remarks About the Nation's Energy Shortage.
December 13, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
This is the first of a number of periodic
reports that will be made on energy by
Director Simon [William E. Simon, Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Energy Office].
As you know, yesterday there was a
meeting of the Energy Emergency Action
Group, meetings that will be attended by
the President and the Vice President, or
both, as they occur, usually on a weekly
1009
