Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 4 [347]
we must have for dealing with the energy
crisis.
I am personally assuming the Chair-
manship of the Energy Emergency Action
Group which will continue to oversee all
major policy issues relating to energy. And
Mr. William E. Simon, who is currently
Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, will
serve as Executive Director of this group.
expect, Mr. Simon, that this will take
almost all of your time.
Concurrently, I am asking the Congress
to create a Federal Energy Administra-
tion and, in the Executive Office of the
President, a Federal Energy Office to
carry out all energy-related functions.
In anticipation of Congressional action
on my request, I am today establishing by
Executive order [11748] the Federal
Energy Office, which will begin to per-
form these functions while we await the
necessary statutory authority which we
hope to get from the Congress.
The Federal Energy Office will also be
headed by Mr. Simon. I am gratified by
the rapid action which the Congress is
taking on many of the proposals for deal-
ing with the energy crisis. The emergency
legislation which we must have is being
considered in an expeditious manner, as
is my request for legislation establishing
an Energy Research and Development
Administration. And I am confident, too,
that my proposal for a Federal Energy Ad-
ministration will be dealt with in a similar
manner by the Congress.
As these steps are being taken, I want
to emphasize once again that the work
of the Government agencies involved in
meeting the energy crisis cannot be fully
successful without the total commitment
of every American citizen to see our Na-
tion through this situation.
The American people recognize the
challenge facing us, and they are already
responding to it in a way that speaks well
for the future. Every day reports flow into
the White House of families who are driv-
ing more slowly, turning down their ther-
mostats in their homes, and seeking other
ways to conserve fuel. Each of these fam-
ilies has my personal gratitude and has
also the gratitude of the entire Nation.
As we see the spirit of sacrifice which
has distinguished this response, we ap-
proach the days ahead with the strongest
confidence that we will weather this pres-
ent difficulty as we have others in our
history and that the ultimate accomplish-
ment of independence with regard to en-
ergy can and will be a fitting tribute to
America's strength and perseverance in
this time.
And now, Mr. Simon, who will have
such great responsibilities to carry out
these policies in this new office, will have
a statement and then will take your ques-
tions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a transcript of Mr. Simon's news briefing on
energy policy and organization, a fact sheet
on Federal energy organization and biographi-
cal data on Mr. Simon and John C. Sawhill,
Deputy Director of the Federal Energy Office.
Mr. Simon's opening remarks at the news brief-
ing are printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 1389).
On December 3, 1973, the President accepted
the resignations of John A. Love as Assistant
to the President and Director of the Energy
Policy Office and of Charles J. DiBona as
Special Consultant to the President and Deputy
Director of the Energy Policy Office. Excerpts
from his letters to Mr. Love and Mr. DiBona
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 1448).
31-870 O-75-66
991
