[33] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
give early and favorable consideration to
the legislation I am transmitting today.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Spiro T. Agnew,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable Carl
Albert, Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives.
Remarks at the Swearing In of John T. Dunlop as
Director of the Cost of Living Council.
February 7, 1973
I WANT to say to Dr. Dunlop, who has
done so many very fine jobs for the Gov-
ernment in many capacities, that we ap-
preciate his taking this very heavy assign-
ment and very important assignment.
I noted that since he is now the official
head of Phase III at the Cost of Living
Council that there has been some con-
cern expressed as to how much he is going
to be backed and whether or not Phase III
has teeth in it.
I want to say to you, Dr. Dunlop, that
there is a stick in that closet and it is a
very big stick, and I will never hesitate
to use it in the fight against higher prices
or higher taxes, so you let me know when
you need a stick. I hope that you can do it
with persuasion, but we are ready to
use the stick, too.
DR. DUNLOP. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent, for that kind of backing. My view is
that with sound fiscal restraint, hard work
on food prices, and the kind of coopera-
tion from labor and management that we
are getting, that we can have a really
effective constraint on inflation in the
year ahead, and I think we all are going
to cooperate whether we like it or not.
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
most encouraging things about your ap-
pointment is that it has such unanimous
support from the business community and
the labor community; and the responsi-
bility of the major business concerns in
this country during Phase II and of the
major labor organizations during Phase
II made it work. That same responsi-
bility under your leadership, I think, will
make this work. And when I speak of that
stick, I am only referring to those few who
may get out of line, and when they do,
you let me know.
DR. DUNLOP. I certainly will.
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations and
condolences. He has a tough job.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House.
Judge George H. Revercomb of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia administered
the oath of office.
35 Informal Exchange With Reporters After Visiting
Alice Roosevelt Longworth.
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Longworth was
unable to come to the Inauguration.
MRS. LONGWORTH. I couldn't come. I
had the flu.
February 7, 1973
THE PRESIDENT. She had this flu.
REPORTER. I hope you won't get cold
now.
MRS. LONGWORTH. Well, I am dressed
82
