[348] Dec. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
with a great background, who gave to
Mrs. Nixon and me, I think, one of the
warmest and most heartfelt welcomes we
ever received in all of our travels abroad.
And we believe that every nation, large
and small, has the right to its independ-
ence, the right to choose its own way, and
the right not to have that independence
to be imposed upon, to be infringed upon
by any other power.
That is what U.S. foreign policy is
really about. It is about, of course, first,
peace in the world, and that means nego-
tiations with great powers, and between
them, those who have the power to affect
the peace, but it also means having re-
spect always for the rights of those nations,
whether they be large or small, whether
they be powerful or weak, who, except
for our recognition of their right to inde-
pendence, would be in very great jeop-
ardy.
The President of Romania has been
a spokesman for what he calls the coun-
tries that are not the super powers. He has
been courageous, he has been candid,
sometimes critical of our policy, some-
times critical of policies of other coun-
tries, but always standing up for his own,
and that is a quality we in America
admire.
We admire him. We admire his people
because of their belief in their independ-
ence and their sovereignty and their
willingness to defend it.
And so, tonight, in proposing the toast
to the President, I do so not simply be-
cause he is here again as a state guest
but also because he has made a major
contribution to this profound change in
the relations between nations that has oc-
curred over these past 5 years, and also
because he stands for a principle that we
Americans believe in so deeply, the right
of every nation, large or small, to its
independence, to its freedom.
And so, I know all of you will want to
join me in not only drinking to the health
of our distinguished guest, to the friend-
ship between our two peoples, but par-
ticularly to the leader of a great and
friendly nation, President Ceauşescu.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
On the following evening, the President and
Mrs. Nixon attended a reception in honor of
President and Mrs. Ceauşescu hosted by Ro-
manian Ambassador to the United States Cor-
neliu Bogdan at the Romanian Embassy.
President Ceauşescu responded to the Presi
dent's toast in Romanian. His remarks were
translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Madam, ladies and gentlemen:
I should also like to refer briefly to some of
the problems pertaining to the relations be-
tween our two nations and also to international
affairs today.
We truly live in an era of great transforma-
tion, both on a national and international level.
Men who have obtained important success in
the development of economy, science, culture,
men who reached out into the outer space, are
still preoccupied with a great many problems
here on Earth.
There is still much inequality in the world.
There are people and there are peoples who
still live in underdevelopment. And there is a
concern to establish relations between people
and peoples on a better basis, on more justice,
both on a national and on an international
level.
No doubt there are many different opinions
as to the various ways leading to this better
world, to this world with more justice we are
dreaming about. But today, more and more
statesmen understand, as the peoples under-
stand themselves, that a better world, a world
with more justice, should necessarily come
about.
You talk, Mr. President, about our discus-
sions in 1967. At that time I was not President
of the State Council myself. I was just the Sec-
retary General of the party at that time. There-
fore, it was not a discussion between two Presi-
994
