[308] Oct. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
308
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Elliot L. Richardson
as Attorney General. October 20, 1973
Dear Elliot:
It is with the deepest regret and with
an understanding of the circumstances
which brought you to your decision that
I accept your resignation.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Elliot L. Richardson, The Attorney
General, Justice Department, Washington,
D.C.]
NOTE: The text of Attorney General Richard-
son's letter of resignation, dated October 20,
1973, and released with the President's letter,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is with deep regret that I have been
obliged to conclude that circumstances leave
me no alternative to the submission of my res-
ignation as Attorney General of the United
States.
At the time you appointed me, you gave me
the authority to name a special prosecutor if
I should consider it appropriate. A few days
before my confirmation hearing began, I an-
nounced that I would, if confirmed, "appoint
a special prosecutor and give him all the in-
dependence, authority, and staff support
needed to carry out the tasks entrusted to him."
I added, "Although he will be in the Depart-
ment of Justice and report to me and only
to me he will be aware that his ultimate
accountability is to the American people."
At many points throughout the nomination
hearings, I reaffirmed my intention to assure
the independence of the special prosecutor, and
in my statement of his duties and responsibili-
ties, I specified that he would have "full au-
thority" for "determining whether or not to
contest the assertion of 'Executive Privilege' or
any other testimonial privilege." And while
the special prosecutor can be removed from of-
fice for "extraordinary improprieties," I also
pledged that “The Attorney General will not
countermand or interfere with the Special
Prosecutor's decisions or actions."
While I fully respect the reasons that have
led you to conclude that the Special Prosecutor
must be discharged, I trust that you understand
that I could not in the light of these firm and
repeated commitments carry out your direction
that this be done. In the circumstances, there-
fore, I feel that I have no choice but to resign.
In leaving your Administration, I take with
me lasting gratitude for the opportunities
you have given me to serve under your leader-
ship in a number of important posts. It has
been a privilege to share in your efforts to make
the structure of world peace more stable and
the structure of our own government more re-
sponsive. I believe profoundly in the rightness
and importance of those efforts, and I trust that
they will meet with increasing success in the
remaining years of your Presidency.
Respectfully,
ELLIOT L. RICHARDSON
[The President, The White House]
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of remarks by Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler announcing the discharge
of the Special Prosecutor, abolition of the Office
of Watergate Special Prosecution Force, and
the resignations of Mr Richardson and Deputy
Attorney General William D. Ruckelshaus. The
remarks are printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents vol 9. p. 12711
On October 23, 1973, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing con-
taining information on the events of October
20 by Charles Alan Wright, consultant to the
Counsel to the President, and Alexander M
Haig, Jr., Assistant to the President. The news
briefing is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9. p. 1275).
890
