Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
light of the strategic and political environ-
ment of the 1970's. Certain factors were
of overriding concern:
-The West no longer enjoyed the nu-
clear predominance it once possessed.
The Soviet Union was greatly ex-
panding its strategic forces; the
United States had ended its building
programs in favor of qualitative im-
provements. Strategic arms talks, if
they succeeded, would almost cer-
tainly codify a balance that was
roughly equal.
-Anticipating this new strategic bal-
ance, the allies had quite correctly
developed a new doctrine of flexible
response to meet threats with means
other than immediate and massive
nuclear retaliation.
-In conditions of near strategic parity,
the ability to defend Western Eu-
rope with conventional forces as-
sumed far greater significance than
in the 1950's, when the West could
afford temporary weaknesses because
of the American nuclear guarantee.
In these circumstances, actual alliance
performance was inconsistent with the
implications of the strategic balance:
-Despite adoption of a new doctrine,
the composition, levels, and arma-
ments of NATO forces remained vir-
tually unchanged. Indeed, with U.S.
redeployments in 1968, as well as
previous reductions, the level of
NATO forces had declined.
-Soviet forces in Eastern Europe, on
the other hand, were being reequip-
ped and modernized. After the inva-
sion of Czechoslovakia, the forward
deployment of Soviet forces increased
by several divisions. Meanwhile, the
United States had withdrawn one
and one-third divisions.
-Spending for defense in the NATO
area, measured in real purchasing
power, declined steadily from 1964
through 1969.
-The distribution of defense costs had
shifted. Manpower absorbed an in-
creasingly larger share of expendi-
tures while equipment purchases
declined.
-There was no agreement among the
allies on a common level of supplies
in critical munitions. Yet, obviously,
if certain countries could sustain
combat for only a few days, it was
irrelevant that others had stocks for
much longer periods.
-There was agreement on the im-
portance of conventional defense, but
a reluctance, especially in Europe, to
give priority to non-nuclear capabili-
ties. Europe feared that doing so
might imply a weakening of the
credibility of the nuclear deterrent.
In addition, there was concern in the
United States about our heavy commit-
ments to the Alliance in manpower and
expenditure. Critics persistently asked
why the United States could not reduce
its forces in Europe. Moreover, there was
a growing opinion that our European de-
ployments only further aggravated an
already adverse balance of payments.
This environment of 1969-70 led me to
insist on a full-scale review, not only of
the American commitment but also of the
Alliance's policies. It was futile to simply
debate whether the United States should
cut its forces by this or that number. The
real issues were whether those forces were
the instruments of an agreed and rational
strategy, whether their presence made an
essential difference, and whether the
burdens of commitment were shared
equitably.
407
