[330] Nov. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
known, there is the feeling that the use
of nuclear power for peaceful purposes
should not even be explored. I live 12
miles from a nuclear powerplant in Cali-
fornia, and I am not afraid, and none of
my neighbors are afraid. It is safe; it is
clean; it is necessary. And the United
States, which was the first to develop nu-
clear power, must now go forward to de-
velop it for peaceful purposes so that by
the year 1980 we can have all the power
that we need.
And now let me come to a critical ques-
tion-realtors. Realtors, of course, believe
in this country. Realtors believe that real
estate, American real estate, is the best in-
vestment you can make, not only in real
estate or probably in anything else. I
didn't check with my New York stock-
brokers to see whether or not they agreed
with that-the ones I formerly knew—
but nevertheless, I think most of them
are now saying, have your portfolio with
some real estate in it as well as common
stocks and bonds. If I have left anything
out, it is not deliberate.
The point is, when I have been talk-
ing here, I have been talking about ex-
tracting coal and making it a clean fuel,
and in the meantime using it even when
it isn't clean if it is necessary in order to
have the energy that produces our jobs
and keeps us warm and keeps us moving.
Second, I have been talking about nu-
clear power and nuclear power also runs
into the problem that some people who
are desperately concerned about the en-
vironment, the beauty of America, as I
am concerned, and as you are concerned,
they wonder, should we develop nuclear
power, might it have a detrimental effect
on the environment?
Let me tell you what is my belief. Our
goal for 1980 is not only to have independ-
ence we call it "Project Independence
1980"-to be self-sufficient in energy, our
goal for 1980 is to be self-sufficient in clean
energy.
America can have all the energy it
needs, and we can still have it a clean
energy, clean nuclear power, clean coal
power, clean shale oil power, and clean
natural gas power, just to name those.
That is our goal, because we want this
to be a beautiful country, not just a
prosperous country. We want this to be
a beautiful country, not just a peaceful
country. We want this to be a beautiful
country, not just one that has all the
energy that it needs, but which so con-
taminates the air that our children will
not enjoy the life that we have had the
opportunity to enjoy in past years.
My time has expired, and I will simply
close on one final note that I know will be
of some interest to this great audience.
I mentioned some of the plus things
and some of the problem areas and some
of the minus things, but all of them are
soluble. There is one other problem that
most of you have been reading about and
hearing about, the problem of the cam-
paign of 1972 and the issues that arose out
of it, the mistakes that were made, mis-
takes made by people who, as I have often
stated, were overzealous, mistakes that I
never approved of, mistakes that I would
never have tolerated, but mistakes for
which I will have to take responsibility.
But let me also say this: Mistakes are
one thing; as far as the President of the
United States is concerned, he has not
violated his trust, and he isn't going to
violate his trust now.
And I say to you ladies and gentlemen
that, finally, I was elected to do a job. I
considered as the great goals ending the
longest war in America's history, but not
940
