Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 1 [61]
double the 1969 total. More than 8 mil-
lion schoolchildren are now being pro-
vided with free or reduced-price lunches—
up from only 3 million in 1969.
We have made great strides toward
banishing hunger and malnutrition from
American life-and we shall continue
building on that progress until the job
is done.
OLDER AMERICANS
One measure of the Nation's devotion
to our older citizens is the fact that pro-
grams benefitting them-including Social
Security and a wide range of other ac-
tivities-now account for nearly one-
fourth of the entire Federal budget.
Social Security benefits levels have
been increased 51 percent in the last four
years—the most rapid increase in history.
Under new legislation which I initially
proposed, benefits have also become
inflation-proof, increasing automatically
as the cost of living increases.
Over 12 million older Americans or
their dependents can now receive higher
Social Security benefits while continuing
to work. Nearly 4 million widows and
widowers are also starting to receive larger
benefits $1 billion in additional income
in the next fiscal year. And millions of
older Americans will be helped by the
new Supplemental Security Income pro-
gram which establishes a Federal income
floor for the aging, blind, and disabled
poor.
Nevertheless, we are confronted with a
major item of unfinished business. Ap-
proximately two-thirds of the twenty mil-
lion persons who are 65 and over own
their own homes. A disproportionate
amount of their fixed income must now
be used for property taxes. I will submit
to the Congress recommendations for al-
leviating the often crushing burdens which
property taxes place upon many older
Americans.
I also ask the cooperation of the Con-
gress in passing my 1974 budget request
for $200 million to fund the programs of
the Administration on Aging-a funding
level more than four times that appro-
priated for AoA programs in fiscal year
1972. Half of this amount will be de-
voted to nutrition projects for the elderly,
with the remainder going to assist States
and localities in developing comprehen-
sive service programs for older Ameri-
cans.
In 1973, we shall continue to carry out
the commitment I made in 1971 at the
White House Conference on Aging: to
help make the last days of our older
Americans their best days.
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY
No one who started life in a family at
the bottom of the income scale, as I did
and as many Members of the Congress
did, can ever forget how that condition
felt, or ever turn his back on an oppor-
tunity to help alleviate it in the lives of
others.
We in the Federal Government have
such an opportunity to help combat
poverty. Our commitment to this fight
has grown steadily during the past decade,
without regard to which party happened
to be in power, from under $8 billion in
total Federal anti-poverty expenditures
in 1964 to more than $30 billion in my
proposed budget for 1974.
And we have moved steadily closer to
the goal of a society in which all our citi-
zens, regardless of economic status, will
have both the resources and the oppor-
tunity to fully control their own destinies.
141
