Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
it has not achieved in nearly two decades:
a high employment prosperity for Amer-
ica's citizens without inflation and with-
out war.
Rarely is a budget message perceived as
a dramatic document. In a real sense,
however, the 1974 budget is the clear
evidence of the kind of change in direc-
tion demanded by the great majority of
the American people. No longer will
power flow inexorably to Washington.
Instead, the power to make many major
decisions and to help meet local needs will
be returned to where it belongs to State
and local officials, men and women ac-
countable to an alert citizenry and respon-
sive to local conditions and opinions.
The 1974 budget proposes a leaner
Federal bureaucracy, increased reliance
on State and local governments to carry
out what are primarily State and local
responsibilities, and greater freedom for
the American people to make for them-
selves fundamental choices about what is
best for them.
This budget concerns itself not only
with the needs of all the people, but with
an idea that is central to the preserva-
tion of democracy: the "consent of the
governed."
The American people as a whole-the
"governed"—will give their consent to
the spending of their dollars if they can
be provided a greater say in how the
money is spent and a greater assurance
that their money is used wisely and effi-
ciently by government. They will consent
to the expenditure of their tax dollars as
long as individual incentive is not sapped
by an ever-increasing percentage of earn-
ings taken for taxes.
Since the mid-1950's, the share of the
Nation's output taken by all governments
in the United States-Federal, State, and
local-has increased from a quarter to a
third. It need not and should not go
higher.
The increase in government claims on
taxpayers was not for defense programs.
In fact, the defense share of the gross na-
tional product declined by one-quarter
while the share for civilian activities of
all
governments grew by three-fourths, ris-
ing from 14% of the gross national prod-
uct in 1955 to about 25% in 1972.
In no sense have Federal civilian pro-
grams been starved; their share of the
gross national product will increase from
62% in 1955 to 14% in 1972. Nor will
they be starved by the budget that I am
proposing. A generous increase in out-
lays is provided each year by the normal
growth in revenues. Higher Federal tax
rates are not needed now or in the years
ahead to assure adequate resources for
properly responsive government-if the
business of government is managed well.
And revenue sharing will help State and
local governments avoid higher taxes.
During the past 2 years, with the econ-
omy operating below capacity and the
threat of inflation receding, the Federal
budget provided fiscal stimulus that
moved the economy toward full employ-
ment. The 1974 budget recognizes the
Federal Government's continuing obliga-
tion to help create and maintain-
through sound monetary and fiscal poli-
cies the conditions in which the na-
tional economy will prosper and new job
opportunities will be developed. However,
instead of operating primarily as a stimu-
lus, the budget must now guard against
inflation.
The surest way to avoid inflation or
higher taxes or both is for the Congress
to join me in a concerted effort to control
Federal spending. I therefore propose that
33
