Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 14 [79]
not produce heroin here; yet we have the
largest addict population in the world.
Clearly we will end our problem faster
with continued foreign assistance.
Our domestic accomplishments are
keeping pace with international efforts
and are producing equally encouraging
results. Domestic drug seizures, including
seizures of marijuana and hashish, almost
doubled in 1972 over 1971. Arrests have
risen by more than one-third and convic-
tions have doubled.
In January of 1972, a new agency, the
Office of Drug Abuse Law Enforcement
(DALE), was created within the De-
partment of Justice. Task forces composed
of investigators, attorneys, and special
prosecuting attorneys have been assigned
to more than forty cities with heroin prob-
lems. DALE now arrests pushers at the
rate of 550 a month and has obtained 750
convictions.
At my direction, the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) established a special unit
to make intensive tax investigations of
suspected domestic traffickers. To date,
IRS has collected $18 million in currency
and property, assessed tax penalties of
more than $100 million, and obtained 25
convictions. This effort can be partic-
ularly effective in reaching the high level
traffickers and financiers who never ac-
tually touch the heroin, but who profit
from the misery of those who do.
The problem of drug abuse in America
is not a law enforcement problem alone.
Under my Administration, the Federal
Government has pursued a balanced,
comprehensive approach to ending this
problem. Increased law enforcement ef-
forts have been coupled with expanded
treatment programs.
The Special Action Office for Drug
Abuse Prevention was created to aid in
preventing drug abuse before it begins
and in rehabilitating those who have
fallen victim to it.
In each year of my Administration,
more Federal dollars have been spent on
treatment, rehabilitation, prevention, and
research in the field of drug abuse than
has been budgeted for law enforcement in
the drug field.
The Special Action Office for Drug
Abuse Prevention is currently developing
a special program of Treatment Alterna-
tives to Street Crime (TASC) to break
the vicious cycle of addiction, crime, ar-
rest, bail, and more crime. Under the
TASC program, arrestees who are scien-
tifically identified as heroin-dependent
may be assigned by judges to treatment
programs as a condition for release on bail,
or as a possible alternative to prosecution.
Federally funded treatment programs
have increased from sixteen in January,
1969, to a current level of 400. In the last
fiscal year, the Special Action Office
created more facilities for treating drug
addiction than the Federal Government
had provided in all the previous fifty
years.
Today, federally funded treatment is
available for 100,000 addicts a year. We
also have sufficient funds available to ex-
pand our facilities to treat 250,000 ad-
dicts if required.
Nationwide, in the last two years, the
rate of new addiction to heroin registered
its first decline since 1964. This is a par-
ticularly important trend because it is es-
timated that one addict "infects" six of his
peers.
The trend in narcotic-related deaths is
also clearly on its way down. My advisers
report to me that virtually complete
199
