[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
about shield laws in general, are you
not?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my attitude to-
ward the shield laws briefly is this: First,
I share the objective. I believe that re-
porters, if you are going to have a free
press, ought to have some kind of a shield,
except of course, if they are involved in
criminal activities, and then I don't think
the shield law that any of you have sug-
gested would cover those. As I under-
stand, if there are criminal activities in-
volved in by a reporter, obviously a shield
law can't protect him.
The second point, however, has to do
with the particular legislation and how it
reaches my desk, and I will have to take
a look at it when it gets there to see if it
is proper. If it is proper, I will sign it. But
I think that a shield law which would
have the effect of providing to reporters
what the general public felt, after they had
a chance to consider it all-provide for
them privileges that went beyond what the
general public thought was in the national
interest, then I would have to take a sec-
ond look.
Now, incidentally, I should point out,
too, that I followed your editorials-not
yours in just the St. Paul paper, but others
around the country-and the newspapers
in this country are not united on this. So,
on the shield law I am not trying to duck
the question-it is an open question.
But I will answer one thing I think is
important. The new Attorney General,
Mr. Saxbe, under my directions, will fol-
low this practice: Any Federal case in-
volving a reporter will not be brought
unless it comes expressly to the Attorney
General and he approves it, because that
way, that is a pretty good shield, I think.
[15] Q. May I ask one other question,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Do you feel that the executive privi-
lege is absolute?
THE PRESIDENT. I, of course, do not.
I have waived executive privilege with
regard to all of the members of my staff
who have any knowledge of or who have
had any charges made against them in
the Watergate matter. I have, of course,
voluntarily waived privilege with regard
to turning over the tapes, and so forth.
Let me point out it was voluntary on
my part, and deliberately so to avoid a
precedent that might destroy the principle
of confidentiality for future Presidents,
which is terribly important.
If it had gone to the Supreme Court-
and I know many of my friends argued,
"Why not carry it to the Supreme Court
and let them decide it?"-that would,
first, have had a confrontation with the
Supreme Court, between the Supreme
Court and the President. And second, it
would have established very possibly a
precedent, a precedent breaking down
constitutionality that would plague future
Presidencies, not just President.
I could just say in that respect, too,
that I have referred to what I called the
Jefferson rule. It is the rule, I think, that
we should generally follow-a President
should follow-with the courts when they
want information, and a President should
also follow with committees of Congress,
when they want information from his
personal files.
Jefferson, as you know, in that very,
very famous case, had correspondence
which it was felt might bear upon the
958
