Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 8 [250]
legislation. Today we have moved down
to four pieces of legislation that we con-
sider to be of the highest urgency and
that must be acted upon before the end
of the year. These pieces of legislation deal
with both the short-term problem and ad-
dress themselves particularly, however,
to the long-term problem.
One is the Alaska pipeline, which is
presently in conference and, of course,
where the prospects are excellent. The
second is the deepwater ports. The longer
we wait here, the longer we are going to
have to wait to have the capacity to bring
in the products from abroad that we need
to meet our energy needs. The third is
the deregulation of gas. This we must act
upon now, because only through deregu-
lation can the new construction, which is
essential, the new construction, the drill-
ing, et cetera, and the refineries be under-
taken. And the fourth is the legislation
with regard to strip mining.
The strip mining legislation, as we
know, has elements of controversy because
of conflict with the environmentalists. But
Mr. Train¹ was here at the meeting this
morning, at our request, and he has been
participating in all of these meetings, and
he believes that the legislation that we
have presented to the Congress, properly
administered, is one that can be consist-
ent with our environmental goals.
So much for what the Congress should
do. These four pieces of legislation that
Congress should consider on a high prior-
ity basis, because failing to act means that
we could have very serious problems, not
1 Russell E. Train was Chairman of the
Council on Environmental Quality and Ad-
ministrator-designate of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.
just this year but, particularly in the years
ahead.
The other points that I would make are
with regard to what we can do and have
done and are doing from an administra-
tive standpoint, that do not require legis-
lation.
One is the relaxation of emission stand-
ards. Governor Love is calling together
several Governors who have particular
interest in this area, and he will be meeting
with them either next week or early in
the following week. The relaxation of
emission standards will have the effect of
dealing with the immediate problem, the
problem we face this winter, and unless
those standards are relaxed, we could
have a very serious problem this winter.
That is why the Governor is moving in
this particular area. This can be done,
incidentally, administratively, but it re-
quires the cooperation of the Governors
because the Governors have, in many
in-
stances, as a result of our asking them to
do so, had their legislators adopt stand-
ards at the State level which presently are
State law. It will be necessary for those
to be modified.
A second area where administrative ac-
tion is possible is with regard to the Elk
Hills Naval Reserve. Here, consultation
with the Congress is required, and we will
institute that kind of consultation that is
necessary, particularly with the Armed
Services Committee. But developing the
Elk Hills Reserves is essential in terms of
providing, from our domestic sources, for
the needs that we have.
And consequently, we are moving next
week in the consultative process so that
we can go forward with the Elk Hills
development.
753
