Foreword
Federal government is more vital and viable local government, we
continued our efforts to secure the passage of Special Revenue
Sharing programs which would help return the power of govern-
ment to the people of this country.
The documents which tell this story best are the texts of the six
separate State of the Union messages which were sent to Congress,
and the corresponding radio addresses to the Nation covering each
of the critical areas of Natural Resources and the Environment,
the Economy, Human Resources, Community Development, and
Law Enforcement and Drug Abuse Prevention.
Here, we felt, was an opportunity for the government and the
people to use the three years leading to America's Bicentennial to
revive and restore the principles of individual enterprise, personal
responsibility, and limited government that were the legacy of the
Founders to us.
After too many years of accepting massive deficits as inevitable
or even desirable, we were determined in this second term to in-
still the Federal government in general and Congress in particular,
with a new sense of budget discipline and responsibility. This im-
portant fight can be followed through several messages and radio
addresses, news conferences, and finally, in various veto statements.
In June, General Secretary Brezhnev returned the Summit visit
we had made to the Soviet Union a year earlier. In Washington
and in San Clemente, California, we had the widest-ranging dis-
cussions with a particular emphasis on arms control.
In October, Vice President Agnew resigned his Office, and I
appointed Congressman Gerald R. Ford of Michigan to succeed
him.
Still in October, American diplomacy moved to play a central
role in bringing the Yom Kippur War between Israel and her Arab
neighbors to an however uneasy end. One consequence of this war
was to dramatize for the American people the new era of interna-
tional interdependence in which we now live. Within just a few
weeks, an oil embargo made us realize how much we depend upon
outside sources for much of our fuel and energy supplies. The Ad-
ministration submitted Emergency Energy legislation to cover
the crisis, and announced "Project Independence," an on-going
VI
