Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
onism, suspicion, and open rivalry. Only
a few weeks ago, American prisoners of
war and the last American troops returned
from Vietnam, marking an end to our
direct involvement in our longest and
most misunderstood war. These develop-
ments remind us that change is the im-
mutable law of international life.
Nowhere has the fact of change been
more dramatically evident than in Asia
over the past generation. Only 25 years
ago, Japan was an occupied country and
its people were only beginning to dig
themselves out of the rubble of war and
to rebuild a shattered society. Korea, too,
was occupied but also divided at the 38th
parallel where a new war was about to ex-
plode. China, the most populous nation
on earth, was torn by a bloody civil war
that would soon turn it into a Communist
state. In the Philippines, the United States
had carried out its pledge to grant full in-
dependence to a proud people. But else-
where in Asia, colonialism had not yet run
its course. The French were trying to re-
store their control over Indochina. The
Dutch were contending with the forces of
Indonesian revolution. Malaya was not
yet fully independent, and British control
over Burma had only just ended.
The scars and trauma of war were
everywhere evident. Economies had been
badly shattered. Hunger and hopelessness
were widespread. A mood of revolution
was palpable in the atmosphere of most
Asian capitals.
Asia today is a very different region.
Former colonial territories have long since
achieved independence. Japan has revived
to become the third industrial power in
the world. Other countries have also en-
joyed economic "miracles" of their own,
smaller quantitatively than Japan's to be
sure, but hardly less impressive in terms
of rates of growth. The Republic of Korea
is a good example. After the Korean War,
many forecasters were predicting that
South Korea could survive for decades to
come only as a beneficiary of the inter-
national dole. But South Korea has
proved the prophets wrong, achieving an-
nual rates of economic growth of as much
as ten percent, and becoming an impor-
tant exporter of manufactured goods.
Despite international political fluctua-
tions, the skill and energy of the people of
Taiwan have produced remarkable in-
creases in per capita income (more than
13 percent last year) and made Taiwan a
leading trading nation. While simulta-
neously moving toward the goal of nor-
mal relations with Peking, the United
States has maintained a policy of friend-
ship for the 15 million people of Taiwan.
We retain diplomatic ties, commitments
under the Mutual Defense Treaty of 1954,
and close economic contacts with them.
Thailand, despite the pressures of exter-
nally supported insurgency, has continued
to make steady economic progress. It has
also made an important contribution to
regional economic development as well as
to the security of the area. Malaysia and
Singapore, with imagination and hard
work, have raised living standards and
maintained stable political systems. The
Philippines have had a worldwide impact
through their innovative role in introduc-
ing high-yield rice strains as part of the
Green Revolution. Indonesia, Southeast
Asia's most populous country, is forging
ahead under able national leadership.
Overall, the non-Communist nations of
Asia have achieved a remarkable rate of
economic growth averaging close to seven
percent a year.
Change in Asia has not been confined
to achieving independence and making
427
