Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 4 [283]
283
Statement About Trade Reform Legislation Pending
Before the Congress. October 4, 1973
OVER the past several months, the
House Ways and Means Committee has
held exhaustive hearings and made a
number of changes in the trade reform
act which I proposed last April. Its work
was completed yesterday, and the trade
bill will soon be considered by the House
of Representatives.
Many of the committee's changes were
made over the strong objections of the
Administration. Many others were ac-
cepted as significant improvements. In as-
sessing the impact of the committee's
changes, I have tried to determine how
they would affect the purposes for which
this legislation was originally designed.
In most respects, the bill submitted to
the House by the Ways and Means Com-
mittee is a highly responsible piece of leg-
islation.
-It would permit the United States to
enter major trade negotiations with the
authorities needed to achieve broad gains
in trade liberalization with a strong and
proper emphasis both on equity and reci-
procity.
-It would significantly ease access to
escape clause relief and adjustment assist-
ance for American workers and firms suf-
fering injury or threat of injury from
growing import competition.
-It would broaden the range of ac-
tions the United States can take in re-
sponding to unfair international trade
practices.
-It would introduce several new au-
thorities which can be used to manage
domestic and international economic poli-
cies more effectively.
-It would allow the United States to
fulfill its international pledge to estab-
lish a plan of generalized tariff preferences
for the less developed countries of the
world.
In short, the trade reform act as re-
ported to the House holds out the prom-
ise of more and better jobs for American
workers, of more products at lower prices
for the American consumer, of expanding
exports for the United States and other
nations, and most importantly, of reduced
international tensions and a strengthened
structure of peace.
In one important area, however, the
committee bill is clearly inadequate. I
am deeply concerned about the bill's fail-
ure to provide the tools we need to expand
healthy commercial relationships with the
Soviet Union and other Communist
countries. This Administration is com-
mitted to seeking most-favored-nation
treatment for the Soviet Union. Indeed,
the United States has made a formal com-
mitment to the Soviet Union to seek the
necessary legislative approval for such
treatment in the firm belief that this is
in the best interests of both our countries.
Therefore, once again, I strongly urge
the Congress to restore the authority to
grant nondiscriminatory tariff treatment
to all countries.
31-870 - 75-57
847
