Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
I believe that system is fundamentally
sound. We should not penalize American
business by placing it at a disadvantage
with respect to its foreign competitors.
American enterprises abroad now pay
substantial foreign income taxes. In most
cases, in fact, Americans do not invest
abroad because of an attractive tax situ-
ation but because of attractive business
opportunities. Our income taxes are not
the cause of our trade problems and tax
changes will not solve them.
The Congress exhaustively reviewed this
entire matter in 1962 and the conclusion
it reached then is still fundamentally
sound: there is no reason that our tax
credit and deferral provisions relating to
overseas investment should be subjected
to drastic surgery.
On the other hand, ten years of ex-
perience have demonstrated that in cer-
tain specialized cases American invest-
ment abroad can be subject to abuse.
Some artificial incentives for such invest-
ment still exist, distorting the flow of
capital and producing unnecessary hard-
ship. In those cases where unusual tax
advantages are offered to induce invest-
ment that might not otherwise occur, we
should move to eliminate that induce-
ment.
A number of foreign countries presently
grant major tax inducements such as ex-
tended "holidays" from local taxes in
order to attract investment from outside
their borders. To curb such practices, I
will ask the Congress to amend our tax
laws so that earnings from new American
investments which take advantage of such
incentives will be taxed by the United
States at the time they are earned-even
though the earnings are not returned to
this country. The only exception to this
provision would come in cases where a
bilateral tax treaty provided for such an
exception under mutually advantageous
conditions.
American companies sometimes make
foreign investments specifically for the
purpose of re-exporting products to the
United States. This is the classic "runaway
plant" situation. In cases where foreign
subsidiaries of American companies have
receipts from exports to the United States
which exceed 25 percent of the subsidi-
aries' total receipts, I recommend that
the earnings of those subsidiaries also be
taxed at current American rates. This new
rule would only apply, however, to new
investments and to situations where lower
taxes in the foreign country are a factor in
the decision to invest. The rule would also
provide for exceptions in those unusual
cases where our national interest required
a different result.
There are other situations in which
American companies so design their for-
eign operations that the United States
treasury bears the burden when they lose
money and deduct it from their taxes.
Yet when that same company makes
money, a foreign treasury receives the
benefit of taxes on its profits. I will ask the
Congress to make appropriate changes in
the rules which now allow this inequity
to occur.
We have also found that taxing of
mineral imports by United States com-
panies from their foreign affiliates is sub-
ject to lengthy delays. I am therefore in-
structing the Department of the Treasury,
in consultation with the Department of
Justice and the companies concerned, to
institute a procedure for determining in-
ter-company prices and tax payments in
advance. If a compliance program cannot
be developed voluntarily, I shall ask for
legislative authority to create one.
269
