Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 26 [14]
ferred and delegated functions.
The plan has as its one logically con-
sistent subject matter the streamlining of
the Executive Office of the President and
the disposition of major responsibilities
currently conducted in the Executive Of-
fice of the President, which can better be
performed elsewhere or abolished.
The functions which would be abolished
by this plan, and the statutory authorities
for each, are:
(1) the functions of the Director of the
Office of Emergency Preparedness
with respect to being a member of
the National Security Council
(Sec. 101, National Security Act
of 1947, as amended, 50 U.S.C.
402; and Sec. 4, Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1958);
I
(2) the functions of the Civil Defense
Advisory Council (Sec. 102(a)
Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950;
50 U.S.C. App. 2272(a)); and
(3) the functions of the National
Aeronautics and Space Council
(Sec. 201, National Aeronautics
and Space Act of 1958; 42 U.S.C.
2471).
The proposed reorganization is a neces-
sary part of the restructuring of the
Executive Office of the President. It
would provide through the Director of the
National Science Foundation a strong
focus for Federal efforts to encourage the
development and application of science
and technology to meet national needs. It
would mean better preparedness for and
swifter response to civil emergencies, and
more reliable precautions against threats
to the national security. The leaner and
less diffuse Presidential staff structure
which would result would enhance the
President's ability to do his job and would
advance the interests of the Congress as
well.
I am confident that this reorganization
plan would significantly increase the over-
all efficiency and effectiveness of the Fed-
eral Government. I urge the Congress to
allow it to become effective.
The White House,
January 26, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the reorganization plan was
released with the President's message and is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 78).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the reorganization plan by Roy L. Ash,
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.
Reorganization Plan 1 of 1973 became effec-
tive July 1, 1973.
14 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the United States-Japan Cooperative Medical
Science Program. January 26, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress
the Sixth Annual Report of the United
States-Japan Cooperative Medical Sci-
ence Program.
This joint research effort in the medical
sciences was undertaken in 1965 following
a meeting between the Prime Minister of
Japan and the President of the United
States.
During 1972 it continued to concen-
trate on research in the prevention and
25
