[296] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the
United States Army.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of Amer-
ica, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3,
1863, has awarded in the name of The Con-
gress the Medal of Honor to
SPECIALIST FOUR MICHAEL J. FITZMAURICE
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
Specialist Four Michael J. Fitzmaurice, 3rd
Platoon, Troop D, 2d Squadron, 17th Cavalry,
101st Airborne Division, distinguished himself
on 23 March 1971 at Khe Sanh, Republic of
Vietnam. Specialist Fitzmaurice and three
fellow-soldiers were occupying a bunker when
a company of North Vietnamese sappers in-
filtrated the area. At the onset of the attack
Specialist Fitzmaurice observed three explo-
sive charges which had been thrown into the
bunker by the enemy. Realizing the imminent
danger to his comrades, and with complete
disregard for his personal safety, he hurled two
of the charges out of the bunker. He then threw
his flak vest and himself over the remaining
charge. By this courageous act he absorbed
the blast and shielded his fellow-soldiers. Al-
though suffering from serious multiple wounds
and partial loss of sight, he charged out of the
bunker and engaged the enemy until his rifle
was damaged by the blast of an enemy hand
grenade. While in search of another weapon,
Specialist Fitzmaurice encountered and over-
came an enemy sapper in hand-to-hand com-
bat. Having obtained another weapon, he
returned to his original fighting position and
inflicted additional casualties on the attacking
enemy. Although seriously wounded, Specialist
Fitzmaurice refused to be medically evacuated,
preferring to remain at his post. Specialist
Fitzmaurice's conspicuous gallantry, extraor-
dinary heroism, and intrepidity in action at
the risk of his life contributed significantly to
the successful defense of the position and re-
sulted in saving the lives of a number of his
fellow-soldiers. These acts of heroism go above
and beyond the call of duty, are in keeping with
the highest traditions of the military service,
and reflect great credit on Specialist Four Fitz-
maurice and the United States Army.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of
America, authorized by Act of Congress,
March 3, 1863, has awarded in the name of
The Congress the Medal of Honor to
PRIVATE FIRST CLASS KENNETH M. KAYS
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
Private First Class (then Private) Kenneth
M. Kays, United States Army, distinguished
himself on May 7, 1970 while serving as a
medical aidman with Company D, 1st Bat-
talion, 506th Infantry, 101st Airborne Division
near Fire Support Base Maureen, Thua Thien
Province, Republic of Vietnam. On that date
a heavily armed force of enemy sappers and
infantrymen assaulted Company D's night de-
fensive position, wounding and killing a num-
ber of its members. Disregarding the intense
enemy fire and ground assault, Private Kays
began moving toward the perimeter to assist
his fallen comrades. In doing so he became
the target of concentrated enemy fire and
explosive charges, one of which severed the
lower portion of his left leg. After applying a
tourniquet to his own leg, Private Kays moved
to the fire-swept perimeter, administered medi-
cal aid to one of the wounded, and helped him
to an area of relative safety. Despite his own
severe wound and excruciating pain, Private
Kays returned to the perimeter in search of
other wounded men. He treated another
wounded comrade, and, using his own body
as a shield against enemy bullets and frag-
ments, moved him to safety. Although weak-
ened from a great loss of blood, Private Kays
resumed his heroic lifesaving efforts by mov-
ing beyond the Company's perimeter into
enemy held territory to treat a wounded Ameri-
can lying there. Only after his fellow wounded
soldiers had been treated and evacuated did
Private Kays allow his own wounds to be
874
