Appendix B
October
10 President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire met
with the President at the White House.
11 The President announced that Herbert
Brownell would replace Robert H. Finch
as the President's Personal Representative
and head of the delegation to the inaugu-
ration of President Perón of Argentina.
15 Senator Robert P. Griffin and Representa-
tive Leslie C. Arends met with the President
at the White House to discuss the Middle
East situation.
15 President Sangoule Lamizana of Upper
Volta met with President Nixon at the
White House to discuss the drought in West
Africa and the region's recovery needs.
15 Senator Hugh Scott met with the President
at the White House to discuss the Middle
East situation.
15 The President met at the White House with
Henry Kearns, who was resigning as Presi-
dent and Chairman of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States, to express per-
sonally his gratitude for Mr. Kearns' serv-
ice. During their meeting. Mr. Kearns
presented the Export-Import Bank's annual
report for 1973 entitled "Eximbank and the
World of Exports" (Government Printing
Office, 56 pp.).
16 Representative Robert M. Michel of Illi-
nois and Erwin E. Towne, of Pekin, Ill.,
met with the President at the White House.
Mr. Towne presented the President with a
wood-carved reproduction of the painting,
"The Spirit of '76."
16 Veterans Administrator Donald E. Johnson
and Alden Thomas Hood, of West Colum-
bia, S.C., called on the President at the
White House. Mr. Hood, a Vietnam vet-
eran, had received a VA home loan
which brought the total dollar volume of
home loans guaranteed by the Veterans
Administration to more than $100 billion.
October
17 The President joined the Washington Spe-
cial Actions Group meeting in the Cabinet
Room for a discussion of the Middle East
situation.
18 Senator Pete V. Domenici and Representa-
tives Manuel Lujan, Jr., and Harold L.
Runnels of New Mexico called on the Presi-
dent at the White House to present a wood
carving from the New Mexico American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission.
18 Representative Paul Findley and Christy
Carter, of Eldred, Ill., called on the Presi-
dent at the White House. Miss Carter was
named American Princess Soya by the
American Soybean Association in August
1973.
18 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House. During the meeting, Secre-
tary of the Treasury Shultz discussed the
International Monetary Fund meetings in
Nairobi and his trip to the Soviet Union;
Secretary of Labor Brennan discussed pro-
grams of the Labor Department; and Sec-
retary of State Kissinger reported on the
current situation in the Middle East.
22 Former Attorney General Elliot L. Richard-
son met with the President at the White
House.
24 On behalf of the President, Counsellor
Anne Armstrong accepted a set of 13 stamps
presented by Nicaraguan Ambassador Guil-
lermo Sevilla-Sacasa at a special ceremony
in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
The stamps were issued by Nicaragua to
commemorate the American Revolution
Bicentennial.
25 Members of the bipartisan Congressional
leadership met with the President at the
White House. During the meeting, Secre-
tary of State Henry A. Kissinger briefed
the leaders on the situation in the Middle
East.
1083
