Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 22 [53]
new trading system which is equitable for
all.
Even as we reduce the foreign barriers
that keep us from competing abroad, we
must also strengthen our ability to com-
pete. This means working more efficiently
as well as working hard, so that we can
increase our productivity. It means taking
greater pride in our work. It means fight-
ing harder to slow inflation. And it means
keeping Federal spending down.
If we do these things, 1973 can usher
in a new era of prolonged and growing
prosperity for the United States. Unlike
past booms, this new prosperity will not
depend on the artificial stimulus of war.
It will not be eaten away by the blight of
inflation. It will be solid. It will be steady.
It will be sustainable.
If we act responsibly, this new pros-
perity can be ours for many years to come;
if we don't, then as Franklin Roosevelt
once warned, we could be "wrecked on
(the) rocks of loose fiscal policy." The
choice is ours. Let us choose responsible
prosperity.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded for
broadcast at 12:06 p.m. on nationwide radio.
53 State of the Union Message to the Congress on
the Economy. February 22,
To the Congress of the United States:
Today, in this third section of my 1973
State of the Union Message, I wish to
report on the state of our economy and
to urge the Congress to join with me in
building the foundations for a new era of
prosperity in the United States.
The state of our Union depends funda-
mentally on the state of our economy. I
am pleased to report that our economic
prospects are very bright. For the first
time in nearly 20 years, we can look for-
ward to a period of genuine prosperity in
a time of peace. We can, in fact, achieve
the most bountiful prosperity that this
Nation has ever known.
That goal can only be attained, how-
ever, if we discipline ourselves and unite
on certain basic policies:
-We must be restrained in Federal
spending.
-We must show reasonableness in
labor-management relations.
1973
-We must comply fully with the new
Phase III requirements of our economic
stabilization program.
-We must continue our battle to hold
down the price of food.
—And we must vigorously meet the
challenge of foreign trading competition.
It is clear to me that the American
people stand firmly together in support
of these policies. Their President stands
with them. And as Members of the 93rd
Congress consider the alternatives before
us this year, I am confident that they,
too, will join in this great endeavor.
IMPACT OF THE ECONOMY ON
PEOPLE'S LIVES
This message will present my basic
economic recommendations and priorities
and will indicate some areas in which fur-
ther detailed plans will be submitted later.
But I also want to discuss our economic
117
