[22] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing productivity, maintaining industrial
peace, and conforming to the standards
of the control system. The Government
helped to create conditions in which pri-
vate people could adapt to a growing
economy that was far less defense-oriented
and much less inflationary. But it was
the individual American who made the
adaptations.
The immediate economic goals for the
domestic economy in 1973 are clear. Out-
put and incomes should expand. Both the
unemployment rate and the rate of infla-
tion should be reduced further, and real-
istic confidence must be created that
neither need rise again.
The prospects for achieving these goals
in 1973 are bright if we behave with rea-
sonable prudence and foresight. By all
signs a vigorous economic expansion is
underway and will continue during the
year. This will raise output and employ-
ment and reduce unemployment. The
problem, as far as can now be foreseen,
will be to prevent this expansion from be-
coming an inflationary boom.
That is why I put restraining Federal
expenditures at the top of the list of
economic policies for 1973. Nothing is
easier or more pleasant, at least for a
bureaucracy, than to spend money. But
beyond some point, which our budget
plans already reach, everything that the
Government gives out with one hand it
must take back with the other, in higher
taxes or more inflation or both. Spending
proposals must be looked at in this way.
by asking whether they are worth either of
these costs. Much Government spending
fails this test.
I am proposing a budget with expendi-
tures of $250 billion in the current fiscal
year an increase of $18 billion from last
year. I am proposing a $19 billion increase
for next year, to $269 billion. Although
those are large totals and large increases.
they reflect a sense of responsibility and
discipline. I urgently seek the cooperation
of the country and the Congress in staying
within my budget proposals.
Only by holding the line on Federal
spending will we be able to reduce the
inflation rate further in 1973. Productivity
should still be rising strongly. Inflationary
expectations have been subdued. Workers
have been experiencing large gains in
their real incomes and so the pressure to
catch up will be less than it was earlier.
Anti-inflationary forces are at work, but
it will be necessary to keep our healthy
expansion from becoming an overheated
boom.
The system of wage and price controls
in effect during 1972 helped bring about
a combination of less inflation and more
production. But it is not the best system
for 1973. After intensive consultation with
all parts of the American society we have
concluded that controls should be substan-
tially modified. There are several problem
areas food, construction, and medical
care costs-where special efforts at re-
straint are needed, in some cases more in-
tense than last year.
In the economy at large there is need to
establish more firmly a pattern of behavior
consistent with reasonable price stability.
At the same time our own experience and
the experience of other countries demon-
strate that as controls continue, unless
they are suitably modified, red tape mul-
tiplies, inequities increase, interferences
with production and productivity become
more severe, and the possibility is en-
hanced that prices will explode when con-
trols are lifted. Therefore, we are modi-
fying the control system in several ways.
We are setting forth standards of rea-
50
