[310] Oct. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent. Instead, it would penalize the USIA
with a possible cut-off of funds if it failed
to meet a demand for confidential inter-
nal information made by the Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations or the House
Committee on Foreign Affairs-however
unreasonable that demand might be.
The Justice Department has advised
me that section 4 is an unconstitutional
attempt on the part of the Congress to
undermine the President's constitutional
responsibility to withhold the disclosure of
information when, in his judgment, such
disclosure would be contrary to the public
interest. From George Washington on, my
predecessors have defended this Presi-
dential responsibility, recognizing that the
traditional division of powers and comity
between the executive and legislative
branches must be maintained. I intend to
do no less.
A practical effect of section 4 would be
to restrict the USIA access to sensitive for-
eign policy information essential to carry-
ing out its mission. The Agency could also
be forced to disclose internal documents
and working papers which do not repre-
sent approved policy. Failure of the Con-
gress to respect the confidentiality of such
papers would prevent a free and frank
exchange of views within the USIA and
between it and other parts of the execu-
tive branch-an exchange that is vital if
the USIA is to function as an effective
arm of American foreign policy.
This Administration has invoked
Executive privilege to withhold informa-
tion only in the most compelling circum-
stances and only after thorough, thought-
ful evaluation of the facts. As evidence of
our good faith, the USIA has complied as
fully as possible with every Congressional
request for information during the au-
thorization and appropriations hearings
this year, and will continue to do so. For
example, it provided the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee alone with detailed
answers to more than one hundred sub-
stantive questions prior to this year's
authorization hearings.
If a President failed to take a stand
in this instance to protect the division of
powers and uphold the doctrine of Execu-
tive privilege, the door would be opened
to even more serious encroachments on
the constitutional system. Already, provi-
sions similar to those in section 4 are con-
tained in two vital bills at very advanced
stages in the legislative process-S. 2335,
the economic foreign assistance authoriza-
tion bill, and S. 1443, the security assist-
ance authorization bill.
The issue at stake is simple. It involves
far more than the confidential documents
of the USIA or our other foreign affairs
and national security agencies. Rather,
it involves the preservation of the basic
ability of the executive branch to continue
to function and perform the responsibil-
ities assigned to it by the Constitution.
Unless privacy in the preliminary ex-
change of views between personnel of the
Executive agencies can be maintained, the
healthy expression of opinion and the
frank, forthright interplay of ideas that
are essential to sound policy and effective
administration cannot survive.
The White House,
October 23, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President's
veto on October 30, 1973.
892
