Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 9 [288]
happy plea and testimonial for this commu-
nity of feelings between us that I referred to
a minute ago.
To come to meet you, Mr. President, is not
simply for the people of the Ivory Coast the
opportunity to dwell upon the favorable course
of our relations, to set forth its spirit and stress
its thrust, it is also a way for us to satisfy a por-
tion of the curiosity and admiration which has
always led us to take an interest in your amaz-
ing nation.
I do not know which of your history, the vir-
tue of your people or your phenomenal devel-
opment in the scientific and economic area, is
the most noteworthy. I am convinced that the
lessons and the examples upon which we can
ponder here are particularly rewarding and
numerous.
What is first of all remarkable, I believe, is
the aptitude of American society to merge into
a single unit the most diverse contributions
come from afar and particularly from the banks
of the old Europe. Your history is like no other
in that respect, to have transplanted so many
human contributions-linguistic and religious
contributions-so dissimilar-into a commu-
nity which is so extraordinarily original, with-
out precedent, without equivalent in any other
part of the world.
The American adventure is also a way to
define new relationships between man and
nature. From the scouts and the pioneers who
went West to the conquerors of the Moon, it
is always the same challenge cast by every suc-
ceeding generation. It is also the birth of a
new system of relationships between man and
the coming into being of a genuine democracy
which, regardless of the scope of its contra-
dictions and its problems, has always pre-
served its main balance and has always offered
to the world as a mirror, sometimes casting
a deformed picture, but always an enlighten-
ing one of trans-intentions which come to be
such a course of upheaval as we near the end
of the century throughout all our societies.
The history of the United States is universal
in scope, Mr. President, and it has been very
aptly said that it is the common property of
any man who wishes to be contemporaneous
with his own time and who questions himself
about the future of mankind. The United States
has also shown man in a most fruitful way, the
entire scope of his creative genius and his fac-
ulty to transform and enrich the natural boun-
ties of the soil and the subsoil. Few countries,
without any doubt, have as much and as many
different resources as your country, Mr. Presi-
dent, but it still needs to develop these phenom-
enal resources in the most rational way pos-
sible, to put them at the service of the com-
munity. The fact that today the United States
is the first industrial power in the world, at
the same time from the standard of value and
quantity as technological perfection, individ-
ual productivity, and invested capital-this fact
is not due to chance.
Nowhere has the faculty to develop, produce,
invent, and multiply been so effective, so rapid,
and this variety is present nowhere else in the
world. No other country has produced more
business leaders; no country has obtained such
a standard of living,
To have been the first to conquer the atom
and then space, shows very eloquently the high
degree and the capacity for renewal of Ameri-
can science, technology, and economy. This
phenomenal progression does not go without its
equilibriums and constraints. And this is not
specifically part of your history alone; you are
not the only ones today to attempt to resolve
the delicate problem of equilibrium within
growth, but perhaps, and this is also one of
your main strengths, you are the first to have
confronted with so much rigor and lucidity
problems as essential and timely as those of
pollution, the quality of life, urbanization, and
the preparation of your own future.
It would be a simplistic and an unfair view
to limit your innovative capability, your capac-
ity to go beyond your own efforts, and to stimu-
late creative competitiveness to reduce it only
to material dimensions. One tends to forget too
often that your thinkers, your writers, your film
makers, your architects, have brought much to
the world. New forms of expression in thought
and sensitiveness, a nation which gave to our
movements of contemporaneous expression such
key and diverse men as Mark Twain, Ernest
Hemingway, John Ford, and Frank Lloyd
Wright that displays an intellectual vitality
and a creative maturity which stand as an
example.
As an example, indeed, is your entire history
which has also avoided the traps of solitude to
855
