Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 10 [289]
in that case, but—and here is the prob-
lem for science-we can and must develop
the energy that America needs for its jobs,
for its progress, for its transportation, but
at the same time, develop that energy in
a way that will not despoil the environ-
ment of our country and, in fact, will
clean it, as one of the award winners from
Southern California, his citation, will in-
dicate today.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me
simply conclude by pointing up something
that I know concerns many in the scien-
tific community, and that is, why is it that
the budget for science is not moving up
at the levels that many of you think is es-
sential if the United States is to maintain
a position of leadership in this area?
Well, the budget is a problem in many
areas. I can only say, however, that in
the field of basic research, when it comes
to problems of energy, when it comes to
problems of the environment, the other
areas that I have mentioned, we must al-
locate a larger proportion of our national
income to these areas, and by doing so, we
not only will make a contribution toward
the scientific community and developing
the scientific capabilities of our people but
we also will make a very great contribu-
tion to a better nation here at home.
What I am saying very simply is this:
We all know that because the United
States needed a concentration on defense
at a critical time, and then later a con-
centration on space, that this opened
broad, new vistas in the area of science,
and this also resulted in a much greater
Federal contribution and the justification
for it from a budgetary standpoint. But
now, as we turn from war to the works of
peace, we must not cut back on that
research.
What we must do is to channel the ef-
forts in the field of research to peaceful
uses, the field of energy, ecology, and not
to mention and not, of course, by men-
tioning these two to in any way downgrade
the efforts we should make in the field of
health, in education, and the others,
which these citations will cover.
So, on this occasion, for these and many
other reasons that I have generally
touched upon, I congratulate all of the
award winners today, each of you indi-
vidually when you come up to receive the
award. And I will simply close on a very
simple quotation from Winston Church-
ill. Speaking in that rather eloquent and
sometimes overstated but beautiful Eng-
lish prose of his, he once said, once the
secret of the atom was discovered, that
"The destruction of mankind might come
on the gleaming wings of science." Let
this not be so.
What we can determine-we who are
not the scientists, because there is no politi-
cal science, I can assure you-what we
must do is to be sure that science, rather
than leading to the destruction of man-
kind, will lead to a better world, a better
nation for our children, for generations to
come.
Thank you.
Now, Dr. Stever will read the citations,
and please translate them into English, if
you will. [Laughter]
[At this point, H. Guyford Stever, Director
of the National Science Foundation and Science
Adviser to the President, read the citations, the
texts of which follow.
EARL W. SUTHERLAND, JR.-For the discovery
that epinephrine and the hormones of the
pituitary gland occasion their diverse regula-
tory effects by initiating cellular synthesis of
cyclic adenylic acid, now recognized as a
universal biological "second messenger,"
859
