[303] Oct. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
mainder of this fiscal year. These ammuni-
tion requirements, plus minimum equip-
ment replacement, will result in a total
funding requirement of $380 million for
the current fiscal year, rather than the
$180 million previously requested. To fail
to provide the $200 million for additional
ammunition would deny the Cambodian
Armed Forces the ability to defend them-
selves and their country.
We remain hopeful that the conflict in
Cambodia be resolved by a negotiated
settlement. A communist military victory
and the installation of a government in
Phnom Penh which is controlled by Hanoi
would gravely threaten the fragile struc-
ture of peace established in the Paris
agreements.
I am confident that the Congress and
the American people will support this re-
quest for emergency assistance for these
two beleaguered friends. To do less would
not only create a dangerous imbalance
in these particular arenas but would also
endanger the entire structure of peace in
the world.
The White House,
October 19, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
304 Statement on Signing the National Foundation on the
Arts and the Humanities Amendments of 1973.
October 19, 1973
I AM pleased to sign today S. 795, a meas-
ure extending for 3 years the authoriza-
tion for the National Foundation on the
Arts and the Humanities.
Government has a vital role to play in
encouraging the arts and humanities in
our national life, and this Administration
has continually reaffirmed its commit-
ment to the fulfillment of that role
through the National Foundation.
The purpose of the Foundation is not
to alter the role of private patronage in
the arts and humanities, but rather to
supplement, stimulate, and extend that
role. The Federal Government should do
its part in supporting cultural activities-
and appropriations for the Foundation
have increased almost sixfold since I took
office-but this increased emphasis on
Federal assistance should be joined by
private as well as State and local efforts.
The highest expression of the quality of
a nation is found in the development of
its arts and refinement of its humanistic
concerns. For this development to reach
its full potential, it must be the expression
of a whole people, and it must be available
for the enjoyment of the whole people.
That was the lesson of Athens. That was
the rationale for the National Founda-
tion on the Arts and the Humanities.
As a result of the increased breadth of
artistic and humanistic endeavors made
possible through Federal assistance, the
benefit of these endeavors has been made
available to larger and larger numbers of
people throughout the country.
As we approach the Bicentennial anni-
versary, the National Foundation will
have an increasingly important role to
play in helping to represent to the Nation
and the world the richness and diversity of
our artistic and cultural heritage. The
passage of this bill, with the bipartisan
886
