Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
and keeping our country progressive and
free. Making sure that real educational
excellence is available to all of those chil-
dren must rank high on any list of human
resource priorities for our Nation.
Constructive cooperation between the
Administration and the Congress has al-
ready produced notable gains on this front
over the past several years. The dis-
mantling of dual school systems in the
South is now virtually complete and the
task of remedying school discrimination
elsewhere in the country is proceeding
harmoniously with forced busing being
kept to a minimum. The National In-
stitute of Education, which was created
at my request by the Congress in 1972, is
becoming the center for educational re-
form and innovation we hoped it could
be. Total Federal outlays for education
will reach $13.8 billion under my 1974
budget proposal-an increase of $4.8 bil-
lion over the 1969 level.
Of crucial importance now, however, is
whether those funds are being channeled
in such a way as to purchase maximum
educational benefit for the students they
are intended to help. The experience of
nearly a decade since the Federal Govern-
ment shouldered a major school aid role
under the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act of 1965 indicates that these
funds are not being used as effectively and
equitably as they should be. Elementary
and secondary education grant programs
have proved so rigid, narrow, fragmented
and encumbered with red tape that re-
form, consolidation, greater equity and
simplification are now essential.
It was to meet this need that I first
asked the Congress early in 1971 to shift
most Federal education programs from a
categorical grant basis to a special revenue
sharing approach. The need is still unmet
as another school year starts. The best
remedy is contained in the principles of
the education legislation which the Ad-
ministration proposed in 1971 and again
in March of this year. The principles are
more important than the question of how
the bill is titled or who gets the credit.
I realize that the Better Schools Act has
encountered difficulties in the Congress. I
believe, however, that an acceptable pro-
posal can be developed, and I am ready
to work closely with the Congress to see
that this goal is accomplished.
It will take political courage for the
House and Senate to reject proposals
which would perpetuate the more than
30 categorical grant programs perennially
popular with legislators. But these pro-
grams are so tangled that we must move
toward streamlining them and toward
transferring key decision-making power
out of the Washington bureaucracy back
to the State and local levels where it can
be exercised more intelligently. But if the
Congress will keep its attention focused
on the question of what best serves our
school children, I believe it will recognize
the need for prompt action.
Another area of renewed interest this
fall is busing. My position is well known.
I am opposed to compulsory busing for the
purpose of achieving racial balance in our
schools. I continue to believe in the neigh-
borhood school—in the right of children
to attend schools near their homes with
friends who live near them. I continue to
believe that busing is an unsatisfactory
remedy for the inequities and inequalities
of educational opportunity that exist in
our country, tragic as those discrepancies
are. We have been working to end those
discrepancies, and we will continue to do
so. But we should also place effective and
reasonable curbs on busing in a way which
773
