[102] Apr. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
prosperity. We appreciate most especially your
hospitality.
I find it very significant that the discussions
which I will soon hold with you on this visit,
which will establish the new basis for the co-
operation between the United States and Viet-
nam, following the Vietnam peace agreement,
are to be held in the Western White House on
the Pacific Coast, because both the United
States and Vietnam belong to the same com-
munity of nations bordering on the Pacific
Ocean.
History has proved that there can be no solid
peace in the world unless there is peace and
stability in the Pacific area. History has also
shown that for the Pacific Ocean to deserve its
peaceful name, courage and tenacity are as
important today as they were to the navigators
who first sailed across this vast ocean centuries
ago.
Mr. President, over 3 years ago, when we
met at Midway, at a time when the Vietnam
war was raging we laid down together the
foundations for a promising solution to the
Vietnam conflict that came to be known as the
Vietnamization. Today, while over 300,000
American troops still stay in Europe to bolster
the defense of Western Europe, more than a
quarter century after World War II was over,
we in Vietnam are proud that, thanks to your
help, the Vietnamese defense force was able to
repel an all-out Communist invasion last year,
103
at a time when American ground troops had
been withdrawn.
This made possible a peace with honor
whereby the Communist aggressors, in the Paris
agreement last January, had to recognize for-
mally the right of self-determination of the peo-
ple of South Vietnam and the principle that the
problems we will solve in North Vietnam are
to be solved by peaceful means, without
coercion and annexation.
While the road to lasting peace is still an
arduous one, a new page has been turned with
the conclusion of the Paris agreement, and I
look forward to having fruitful conversation
with you, Mr. President, on the various aspects
of the relation between our two countries in
this new context.
I earnestly hope that the joint efforts of our
two governments would lead to a consolida-
tion of peace in Indochina and a new era of
constructive cooperation in peace among all
parties concerned. I avail myself on this oc-
casion to express to you, Mr. President, and
through you to the American people, the
heartfelt gratitude of the Vietnamese Govern-
ment and people for the generous assistance of
your government and the noble contribution
of the American nation to our long efforts to
defend and preserve freedom for Vietnam and
Southeast Asia.
Thank you very much.
Letter to President Thieu About the "Land to the Tiller"
Program in the Republic of Vietnam. April 2, 1973
Dear Mr. President:
I very much appreciate your warm mes-
sage of March 20 which described the
achievements of the "Land to the Tiller"
program and expressed the gratitude of
the Vietnamese people for our assistance
in this great work of social reform and
economic development.
With deep interest and satisfaction, I
learned from your letter that on March 26
your country will celebrate the fulfillment
of its three-year goal of redistributing
titles for one million hectares of land to
tenant farmers under the "Land to the
Tiller" program. This program, I know,
is one of the most ambitious and far-
reaching land distribution programs
undertaken by any country in recent
times. It will ultimately benefit over one
million rural families in South Vietnam
and should virtually eliminate farm
tenancy. The fact that this program has
been completed under the difficult war-
time conditions of the past three years
248
