Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 20
[8]
not provide—a new level of respect for
the rights and feelings of one another, a
new level of respect for the individual
human dignity which is the cherished
birthright of every American.
Above all else, the time has come for us
to renew our faith in ourselves and in
America.
In recent years, that faith has been
challenged.
Our children have been taught to be
ashamed of their country, ashamed of
their parents, ashamed of America's rec-
ord at home and its role in the world.
At every turn we have been beset by
those who find everything wrong with
America and little that is right. But I am
confident that this will not be the judg-
ment of history on these remarkable times
in which we are privileged to live.
America's record in this century has
been unparalleled in the world's history
for its responsibility, for its generosity, for
its creativity, and for its progress.
Let us be proud that our system has
produced and provided more freedom
and more abundance, more widely shared,
than any system in the history of the world.
Let us be proud that in each of the
four wars in which we have been en-
gaged in this century, including the one
we are now bringing to an end, we have
fought not for our selfish advantage, but
to help others resist aggression.
And let us be proud that by our bold,
new initiatives, by our steadfastness for
peace with honor, we have made a break-
through toward creating in the world
what the world has not known before-a
structure of peace that can last, not merely
for our time, but for generations to come.
We are embarking here today on an era
that presents challenges as great as those
any nation, or any generation, has ever
faced.
We shall answer to God, to history, and
to our conscience for the way in which we
use these years.
As I stand in this place, so hallowed by
history, I think of others who have stood
here before me. I think of the dreams they
had for America and I think of how each
recognized that he needed help far beyond
himself in order to make those dreams
come true.
Today I ask your prayers that in the
years ahead I may have God's help in
making decisions that are right for Amer-
ica, and I pray for your help so that to-
gether we may be worthy of our challenge.
Let us pledge together to make these
next 4 years the best 4 years in America's
history, so that on its 200th birthday
America will be as young and as vital
as when it began, and as bright a beacon
of hope for all the world.
Let us go forward from here confident
in hope, strong in our faith in one an-
other, sustained by our faith in God who
created us, and striving always to serve His
purpose.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:02 p.m. from
the inaugural platform erected at the east front
of the Capitol. Prior to the address, the oath
of office was administered by Chief Justice
Warren E. Burger, first to Vice President Spiro
T. Agnew and then to President Richard Nixon.
The address was broadcast live on nation-
wide radio and television. An advance text was
released on the same day.
Senator Marlow W. Cook of Kentucky was
cochairman of the Joint Congressional Com-
mittee on the Inaugural Ceremonies. Mrs.
Dwight D. Eisenhower was present on the
platform for the ceremony.
31-870 - 75 - 5
15
