[167] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
I shall forever be grateful to you for giving
me the opportunity to serve in the Depart-
ment of Defense. It was a brief chapter, to be
sure, and yet a memorable one. No one who
has had the privilege of being part of that
Department can ever forget the sense of par-
ticipation with patriotic and dedicated people
who have devoted their lives to concerns
greater than themselves.
You spoke a moment ago, Mr. President,
of the wisdom of the Senate. I am grateful
to that wisdom for having seen to it that I
would still be Secretary of Defense on that
unforgettable evening here at the White
House last night, when the prisoners of war
and their wives were here. That was a very
proud moment for me, simply to realize that I
was a part of the defense establishment of the
United States and that these were men who
belonged to it. Certainly no one who has seen
them and heard them, least of all no one who
has heard them express their feeling for you,
can ever forget it.
It is going to be confusing for a little
while, because I don't think it has been very
often that a man has left the Department of
Defense to acquire the title of General. The
hardest thing, of course, about transitions
from job to job is the severance of relations, or
at least their interruption, and the good thing
about these experiences has always been that
there has been an opportunity to come to
know and to develop associations with people.
who are devoting themselves to the public
interest and who are decent, honorable, capa-
ble people, whose greatest rewards and satis-
168 Memorial Day Message.
May 28, 1973
THIS MEMORIAL DAY, 1973, is an
occasion for all of us to express special
gratitude for the sacrifices of those brave
men who have given their lives to protect
America's freedom over the past two
centuries.
Today, as we honor the memory of our
wartime dead, we are able for the first
time in 12 years to do so as a peacetime
factions lie in the awareness that their lives are
devoted to the public interest.
I have been more privileged than most to
have seen such individuals in many govern-
ment settings.
So, while one of the worst things about a
transition is the interruption of relations, one
of the best is the opportunity to develop new
ones. I look forward to the associations that
I shall be developing with the dedicated
career professionals of the Department of
Justice.
As a lawyer, I look forward also to renewing
my own participation in a legal job in a de-
partment whose concern is with the law and
with the administration of justice The first
concern of the administration of justice must,
of course, be the individual. The second con-
cern is the truth. The first of these demands
fairness. The second demands fearlessness. I
shall do my utmost to be faithful to both.
This is a time, of course, when the institu-
tions of our government are under stress, and
yet, I would suggest to you, and I know you
I will agree with me, that this is not because
their structure is not sound. It is sound, and it
is strong, and it will endure.
If there are flaws, they are in ourselves, and
our task must be one therefore not of redesign,
but of renewal, of reaffirmation- reaffirma-
tion especially of those standards for our-
selves in which all of us believe
I am grateful, Mr. President, for the
charge you have given me to take part in
that task of renewal and reaffirmation. Thank
you very much.
nation, with all of our fighting forces
home from Vietnam and all our prisoners
set free, their heads held high. The men
and women who fell in America's wars,
from Bunker Hill to Khe Sanh and Hué,
have brought the promise of lasting peace
on Earth closer for us all. Let us prove
that their heroism was not in vain. Let us
work together to erect a new structure of
568
