[207] July 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
not consider it wise to commit ourselves
to a specific date for ending all controls at
this time.
We shall have to work our way and
feel our way out of controls. That is, we
shall have to create conditions in which
the controls can be terminated without
disrupting the economy, and we shall
have to move in successive stages to with-
draw the controls in parts of the economy
where that can be safely done or where
the controls are most harmful.
To work our way out of controls means
basically to eliminate the excessive growth
of total demand which pulls prices up
faster and faster. The main lesson of that
is to control the budget, and I shall return
to that critical subject below.
But while we are working our way to
that ultimate condition in which controls
are no longer useful, we must be alert to
identify those parts of the economy that
can be safely decontrolled. Removing the
controls in those sectors will not only be a
step towards efficiency and freedom there,
it will also reduce the burden of admin-
istration, permit administrative resources
to be concentrated where most needed,
and provide an incentive for other firms
and industries to reach a similar con-
dition.
During Phase II, firms with 60 em-
ployees or fewer were exempt from con-
trols. That exemption is now repeated.
We are today exempting most regulated
public utilities, the lumber industry
(where prices are falling), and the price
of coal sold under long-term contract. The
Cost of Living Council will be studying
other sectors for possible decontrol. It will
also receive applications from firms or in-
dustries that can give assurance of rea-
sonably noninflationary behavior without
controls. In all cases, of course, the Cost
of Living Council will retain authority to
reimpose controls.
BALANCING THE BUDGET
The key to success of our anti-inflation
effort is the budget. If Federal spending
soars and the deficit mounts, the control
system will not be able to resist the pres-
sure of demand. The most common cause
of the breakdown of control systems has
been failure to keep fiscal and monetary
policy under restraint. We must not let
that happen to us.
I am assured that the Federal Reserve
will cooperate in the anti-inflation effort
by slowing down the expansion of money
and credit. But monetary policy should
not, and cannot, be expected to exercise
the needed restraint alone. A further con-
tribution from the budget is needed.
I propose that we should now take a
balanced budget as our goal for the pres
ent fiscal year. In the past I have sug-
gested as a standard for the Federal
budget that expenditures should not ex-
ceed the revenues that would be collected
at full employment. We are meeting that
standard. But in today's circumstances,
that is only a minimum standard of fiscal
prudence. When inflationary pressure is
strong, when we are forced to emergency
controls to resist that pressure, when con-
fidence in our management of our fiscal
affairs is low, at home and abroad, we
cannot afford to live by that minimum
standard. We must take as our goal the
more ambitious one of balancing the ac-
tual budget.
Achieving that goal will be difficult,
more difficult than it seems at first. My
original expenditure budget for fiscal 1974
was $268.7 billion. Since that budget was
submitted, economic expansion, inflation,
652
