[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
1971, we agreed that a summit meeting
would be held, not for its own sake, but
as a culmination of concrete progress and
as a means of stimulating further ad-
vances. It was agreed the meeting should
be held in May 1972.
I envisaged this meeting as having four
aspects:
-As political relations improved, it be-
came possible to initiate discussions
on a wide range of projects for
bilateral cooperation. In themselves,
these projects were not crucial to our
relationship. But cumulatively, as co-
operation in such fields widened and
deepened, they would reinforce the
trend toward more constructive po-
litical relations. In the pre-summit
period we discussed cooperation in
science, technology, health, the envi-
ronment, outer space, and maritime
activities. The prospect of a summit
meeting gave these discussions a spe-
cial impetus and high-level attention.
At the summit, these discussions
could culminate in a series of agree-
ments.
-Advances in political relations had
by that time made it possible to ad-
dress economic relations. The starting
point was the removal of long-stand-
ing obstacles to closer commercial
contacts such as the unsettled
World War II lend-lease debt. Then
we could go on to establish longer-
term arrangements for expanding
trade and other types of economic
cooperation on a scale appropriate
to the size of our two economies.
-The summit could complete the first
phase of the SALT negotiations and
provide impetus for the next, even
more far-reaching phase.
-Finally, on the basis of all of these
specific achievements, carefully pre-
pared in the previous months of
painstaking negotiations, the summit
would afford an opportunity to re-
view the whole range of international
issues and to delineate certain funda-
mental principles to govern U.S.-So-
viet relations in the future.
Thus, the summit could redirect the
momentum of the past and chart a new
direction in our relations with the Soviet
Union, creating in the process a vested
interest in restraint and in the preserva-
tion of peace.
THE MOSCOW SUMMIT
We prepared for and conducted the
summit on this basis. We sought to estab-
lish not a superficial "spirit of Moscow"
but a record of solid progress. The number
and scope of the agreements that emerged
make it clear we accomplished that goal.
Bilateral Cooperation. The prospect of
a meeting at the highest level accelerated
the negotiations on bilateral matters. At
the summit it was thus possible to con-
clude agreement on significant coopera-
tive projects.
-Cooperation in the exploration of
outer space, including a joint experi-
ment in rendezvous and docking of
Apollo and Soyuz space vehicles dur-
ing 1975.
-Cooperation in solving the most im-
portant of the problems of the
environment.
-Joint efforts in the field of medical
science and public health.
-Expanded cooperation in many areas
of science and technology and estab-
lishment of a Joint Commission for
this purpose.
-Cooperation between the American
370
