Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 13 [119]
funds of those engaged in a dispute with
the same employer. Neither, on the other
hand, was the income protection which
unemployed workers are guaranteed un-
der the insurance system intended to be
interrupted when an innocent bystander
is put out of work by someone else's
dispute.
I therefore propose that the Federal
Unemployment Tax Act be amended to
prohibit both the payment of unemploy-
ment insurance benefits to strikers and
the practice of denying benefits to non-
strikers. A gray area does exist between
the clear-cut extremes of strike participa-
tion and nonparticipation, where com-
plex definitional problems can arise. Res-
olution of these problems can properly be
left to the judgment of individual States.
But to deal with the clear cases, it is ap-
propriate for the Federal Government to
set a uniform standard on which each
State can elaborate. This the Job Security
Assistance Act would do.
Our unemployment insurance system
puts some of America's finest principles
into action-including those of prudent
provision during times of affluence for
times of need; effective compassion for
our fellow citizens; creative partnership
between the Federal Government and the
States; and supportive action by the pub-
lic sector to help keep our private enter-
prise system stable, healthy, just, and
humane.
The Congress can significantly improve
the system's fidelity to each of these guid-
ing principles by enacting the proposed
Job Security Assistance Act of 1973. This
legislation would bring genuine improve-
ment in the lives of millions of those peo-
ple on whom the Nation depends most
heavily our working men and women.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 12, 1973.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the proposed job security
assistance legislation and the transcript of a
news briefing on the message by Secretary of
the Treasury George P. Shultz.
119 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora.
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora, signed at Washington on March 3,
1973. The report of the Department of
State is enclosed for the information of
the Senate. This Convention is designed
to establish a system by which States may
strictly control the international trade in
April 13, 1973
specimens of species in danger of becom-
ing extinct and monitor the trade in speci-
mens of species which, because of present
or potential trade in them, might be ex-
pected to become endangered.
The international community has real-
ized that steps must be taken to halt the
rapid depletion of wildlife. The present
Convention constitutes a major step in
this direction. I strongly recommend that
the Senate give prompt consideration to
285
