[328] Nov. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
not subpoena the substance of the two
unrecorded conversations. That material
was requested only by the Special Prosecu-
tor, and the court, who believed the sub-
stance of nine Presidential conversations
was necessary for completion of the
Watergate investigation.
We are complying fully with the Fed-
eral court decision. In seven of nine in-
stances, the actual recording of the con-
versation is being submitted; this includes
five conversations in which John Dean
participated: September 15, 1972, March
13, 1973, two on March 21, 1973, one
on March 22, 1973. For all nine con-
versations covered by the subpoena, such
contemporaneous notes and memoranda
as were made of the conversations are
being provided in accordance with the
court order.
Before discussing these matters, the is-
sue of when and why the recorded conver-
sations were listened to by me, and by
others on my behalf, should be placed in
chronological perspective.
On June 4, 1973, I listened to the tape
recordings of a number of conversations
I had with John Dean in order to refresh
my memory of those discussions. All of the
conversations to which I listened that day
had taken place prior to March 21, 1973.
My purpose in reviewing the recordings
of my conversations with Mr. Dean was to
confirm my recollection that he had not
reported certain facts to me prior to
March 21, 1973. In late April 1973, I
asked H. R. Haldeman to listen and re-
port on the conversation of March 21,
1973, in which he had been present for a
substantial portion of time. My primary
purpose in having Mr. Haldeman listen
to this tape was to confirm my recollec-
tion that March 21, 1973, was the date on
which John Dean had first reported cer-
tain facts to me.
There had been rumors and reports to
the contrary-one of them suggesting that
John Dean and I had met 30 or 40 times
to discuss Watergate-and I wanted to
refresh my recollection as to what was the
precise and entire truth.
On September 29, 1973, I began a re-
view of the tape recordings subpoenaed
by the Special Prosecutor for the grand
jury and by the Senate Select Commit-
tee. The reason was it had been my delib-
erate intention to litigate the matter up
to the Supreme Court, if necessary, to pro-
tect the right of confidentiality and the re-
lated principle of separation of powers. By
late September, however, I had come to
the conclusion that the national interest
would be better served by a reasonable
compromise.
Thus, in late September, I began to
consider various approaches which led to
what has come to be known as the "Sten-
nis Compromise"-turning over to both
the Senate committee and the court the
full substance of the relevant recorded
conversations, leaving the verification of
the precision and accuracy of that sub-
stance to Senator Stennis. That compro-
mise offer, accepted by the Senate com-
mittee chairman and vice chairman,
proved unacceptable to the Special
Prosecutor.
It was during this process that I first
became aware of the possibility that two
of the 10 conversations in question had
not been recorded.
I proceeded with a review of the eight
recorded conversations and subsequently
ordered a further search for recordings of
the two conversations in question and an
investigation into the circumstances which
930
