Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [234]
did I know of any such offer. I reaffirm
that statement. Indeed, I made my view
clear to Mr. Ehrlichman in July 1972, that
under no circumstances could executive
clemency be considered for those who
participated in the Watergate break-in.
I maintained that position throughout.
On May 22 I said that "it was not until
the time of my own investigation that I
learned of the break-in at the office of
Mr. Ellsberg's psychiatrist, and I specifi-
cally authorized the furnishing of this in-
formation to Judge Byrne." After a very
careful review, I have determined that
this statement of mine is not precisely
accurate. It was on March 17 that I first
learned of the break-in at the office of Dr.
Fielding, and that was 4 days before the
beginning of my own investigation on
March 21. I was told then that nothing
by way of evidence had been obtained in
the break-in. On April 18 I learned that
the Justice Department had interrogated
or was going to interrogate Mr. Hunt
about this break-in. I was gravely con-
cerned that other activities of the Special
Investigations Unit might be disclosed,
because I knew this could seriously injure
the national security. Consequently, I di-
rected Mr. Petersen to stick to the Water-
gate investigation and stay out of national
security matters. On April 25 Attorney
General Kleindienst came to me and
urged that the fact of the break-in should
be disclosed to the court, despite the fact
that since no evidence had been obtained,
the law did not clearly require it. I con-
curred and authorized him to report the
break-in to Judge Byrne.
In view of the incident of Dr. Fielding's
office, let me emphasize two things.
First, it was and is important that many
of the matters worked on by the Special
Investigations Unit not be publicly dis-
closed because disclosure would unques-
tionably damage the national security.
This is why I have exercised executive
privilege on some of these matters in
connection with the testimony of Mr. Ehr-
lichman and others. The Senate com-
mittee has learned through its investi-
gation the general facts of some of these
security matters and has to date wisely
declined to make them public or to con-
test in these respects my claim of executive
privilege.
Second, I at no time authorized the use
of illegal means by the Special Investiga-
tions Unit, and I was not aware of the
break-in of Dr. Fielding's office until
March 17, 1973.
Many persons will ask why, when the
facts are as I have stated them, I do not
make public the tape recordings of my
meetings and conversations with mem-
bers of the White House Staff during this
period.
I am aware that such terms as "separa-
tion of powers" and "executive privilege"
are lawyers' terms, and that those doc-
trines have been called "abstruse" and
"esoteric." Let me state the common sense
of the matter. Every day a President of
the United States is required to make
difficult decisions on grave issues. It is
absolutely essential, if the President is to
be able to do his job as the country ex-
pects, that he be able to talk openly and
candidly with his advisers about issues
and individuals and that they be able to
talk in the same fashion with him. Indeed,
on occasion, they must be able to "blow
off steam" about important public figures.
This kind of frank discussion is only pos-
sible when those who take part in it can
feel assured that what they say is in the
strictest confidence.
The Presidency is not the only office
701
