[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
principles; every member state of the
United Nations has subscribed to their
essential elements. The UN Security
Council in passing Resolution 242 on
November 22, 1967, envisioned a settle-
ment of the Arab-Israeli dispute that
would be consistent with them-a settle-
ment which would include "withdrawal
of Israeli armed forces from territories oc-
cupied in the recent conflict; termina-
tion of all claims or states of belligerency
and respect for and acknowledgement of
the sovereignty, territorial integrity and
political independence of every state in
the area and their right to live in peace
within secure and recognized boundaries
free from threats or acts of force."
A commitment to such principles by
the outside powers is itself a contribution
to the framework for peace in the Middle
East. A similar commitment by the prin-
cipal countries directly involved, con-
cretely expressed in processes of negotia-
tion, is essential.
THE ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT
The focus of attention in the Middle
East has been the prolonged crisis of the
Arab-Israeli conflict and the persistent ef-
forts to resolve it.
In my first Foreign Policy Report three
years ago, I pointed out the serious ele-
ments of intractability that marked this
conflict. It was a dispute in which each
side saw vital interests at stake that could
not be compromised. To Israel, the issue
was survival. The physical security pro-
vided by the territories it occupied in 1967
seemed a better safeguard than Arab com-
mitments to live in peace in exchange for
return of all those territories-commit-
ments whose reliability could be fully
tested only after Israel had withdrawn.
To the Arabs, negotiating new borders di-
rectly with Israel, as the latter wished,
while Israel occupied Arab lands and
while Palestinian aspirations went unful-
filled, seemed incompatible with justice
and with the sovereignty of Arab nations.
A powerful legacy of mutual fear and mis-
trust had to be overcome. Until that was
done no compromise formula for settle-
ment was acceptable to either side. To the
major powers outside, important interests
and relationships were at stake which
drew them into positions of confrontation.
The problem remains. For this very rea-
son, I have said that no other crisis area
of the world has greater importance or
higher priority for the United States in
the second term of my Administration. At
the beginning of this year I met personally
with Jordan's King Hussein, Egyptian
Presidential Adviser Hafiz Ismail, and Is-
raeli Prime Minister Meir to renew ex-
plorations for a solution.
The United States has no illusions. In-
stant peace in the Middle East is a
dream- yet the absence of progress to-
ward a settlement means an ever-present
risk of wider war, and a steady deteriora-
tion of the prospects for regional stability
and for constructive relations between the
countries of the area and the world out-
side. Arab-Israeli reconciliation may seem
impossible-but in many areas of the
world, accommodations not fully satisfac-
tory to either side have eased the inten-
sity of conflict and provided an additional
measure of security to both sides. Peace
cannot be imposed from outside but I
am convinced that a settlement in the
Middle East is in the national interest of
the United States and that for us to
abandon the quest for a settlement would
be inconsistent with our responsibility as
a great power.
446
