Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
calm reflection and a reasonable exchange
of views. In my message to the recent OAS
General Assembly, I noted: "That kind
of partnership implies that there are com-
mon goals to which we aspire. It implies a
trust and confidence in one another. It
implies that we can attain our goals more
effectively by pursuing them more co-
operatively. Above all, it implies that we
consider interdependence an essential in-
gredient in the life of our hemisphere."
For our part, we shall actively support
and participate in the review of
ways
in
which we can most effectively achieve
political cooperation and economic and
social development in this hemisphere.
This process has begun at the meeting of
the Inter-American Economic and Social
Council in Bogotá in February 1973 and,
most importantly, at the General Assem-
bly of the OAS in April. It is our hope that
this process of careful review will produce
stronger and more effective ways to iden-
tify and advance our common interests in
the final quarter of the 20th Century.
Any discussion of the inter-American
system raises the question of Cuba. We
are asked: if it is desirable to seek recon-
ciliation with countries like the People's
Republic of China and the Soviet Union,
why do we not seek the same with Cuba?
In fact, the situations are quite different.
I have dealt with our relations with
Peking and Moscow elsewhere in this Re-
port. As for Cuba, our policy strongly sup-
ports decisions taken after careful study
by the overwhelming majority of members
of the Organization of American States.
Those decisions were based on the con-
clusion that Cuba's active encouragement
and support for the subversion of legiti-
mate governments in the hemisphere rep-
resented a threat to peace and security in
this part of the world.
Havana's rhetoric in support of violent
revolution has diminished somewhat, and
it is selecting its targets for subversion with
greater care. But extremists and revolu-
tionaries from many Latin American
countries are still being trained in Cuba
today in the techniques of guerrilla war,
in sabotage, and subversion. Those trained
agents and saboteurs are then returned to
their home countries, or to neighboring
countries, to carry out violence against
established governments. Money and arms
flow from Cuba to underground groups in
some countries. This activity continues to
threaten the stability of our hemisphere.
A second reason for concern is that
Cuba became the first member of the
American family to welcome into the
hemisphere the armed power of a non-
American state. That action created,
among other things, the Cuban missile
crisis of 1962. And there is no evidence
that Havana's military ties with Moscow
have markedly changed.
One final consideration: one obvious
way to undercut the prestige and effective-
ness of any international body is for in-
dividual members to act alone contrary to
joint decisions. We have assured fellow
members of the OAS that the United
States will not act unilaterally in this mat-
ter. We will consider a change in policy
toward Cuba when Cuba changes its pol-
icy toward the other countries of the
hemisphere. But in considering any
change, we shall act in concert with our
fellow members of the OAS.
THE ECONOMIC CLIMATE
We have considered some of the politi-
cal forces at work in the hemisphere. It
is equally important to look at economic
developments. These underscore both the
437
