Richard Nixon, 1973
June 29 [190]
is much higher today. As tourism con-
tinues to expand, our parks, lakes, sea-
shores, and forests, as well as facilities for
lodging, food, and transportation, will all
come under increasing demand. To
pro-
tect them, and especially our natural
resources, we must respond with balanced
and farsighted programs.
The current organization of Govern-
ment resources to cope with American
tourism must also be improved. Accord-
ingly, the law that established the Com-
mission directed that a major analysis be
undertaken to define the Federal role in
tourism.
To reach the goals of better develop-
ment of our vast tourism resources and
more efficient Federal administration of
tourism, the Commission has recom-
mended creation of a National Tourism
Administration in the Department of
Commerce. This proposal will receive
careful consideration.
After briefly reviewing this report, I
believe the excellent efforts of the Na-
tional Tourism Resources Review Com-
mission are to be commended, especially
the dedication and diligent efforts of
Chairman Thomas.
In a radio address to the Nation last
July Fourth, I looked towards America's
Bicentennial celebration and invited the
citizens of all countries to come share
with Americans in our festivities. I renew
that invitation today in light of this re-
port on tourism. As we consider the future
of tourism in the United States, it is espe-
cially fitting that we not lose sight of the
importance of playing host to the world
when we honor our rich past.
NOTE: The 6-volume report is entitled "Des-
tination USA: Report of the National Tourism
Resources Review Commission" (Government
Printing Office).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
190 Statement Announcing Additional Energy Policy
June 29, 1973
Measures.
ONE OF the most critical problems on
America's agenda today is to meet our
vital energy needs.
Two months ago I announced a com-
prehensive program to move us forward
in that effort. Today I am taking the fol-
lowing additional measures:
First, I am appointing John A. Love,
Governor of Colorado, to direct a new
energy office that will be responsible for
formulating and coordinating energy
policies at the Presidential level.
Second, I am asking the Congress to
create a new Cabinet-level department
devoted to energy and natural resources
and a new independent Energy Research
and Development Administration.
Third, I am initiating a $10 billion
pro-
gram for research and development in the
energy field, which will extend over the
next 5 years.
Finally, I am launching a conservation
drive to reduce anticipated personal con-
sumption of energy resources across the
Nation by 5 percent over the next 12
months. The Federal Government will
take the lead in this effort by reducing its
anticipated consumption by 7 percent
during this same period.
America faces a serious energy prob-
31-870 O 75 43
623
