Richard Nixon, 1973
June 13 [174]
cided not to freeze wages is that the wage
settlements reached under the rules of
Phase III have not been a significant
cause of the increase in prices. And as
long as wage settlements continue to be
responsible and noninflationary, a wage
freeze will not be imposed.
The freeze will last for a maximum of
60 days. This time will be used to develop
and put into place a new and more effec-
tive system of controls which will follow
the freeze. This new Phase IV [set] of
controls will be designed to contain the
forces that have sent prices so rapidly
upward in the past few months. It will
involve tighter standards and more man-
datory compliance procedures than under
Phase III. It will recognize the need for
wages and prices to be treated consist-
ently with one another.
In addition to food prices, I have re-
ceived reports from various parts of the
country of many instances of sharp in-
creases in the price of gasoline. And
therefore, I have specifically directed the
Cost of Living Council to develop new
Phase IV measures that will stabilize both
the prices at the retail level of food and
the price of gasoline at your service
station.
In announcing these actions, there is
one point I want to emphasize to every
one of you listening tonight. The Phase
IV that follows the freeze will not be de-
signed to get us permanently into a con-
trolled economy. On the contrary, it will
be designed as a better way to get us out
of a controlled economy, to return as
quickly as possible to the free market
system.
We are not going to put the American
economy into a straitjacket. We are not
going to control the boom in a way that
would lead to a bust. We are not going
to follow the advice of those who have
proposed actions that would lead in-
evitably to a permanent system of price
and wage controls, and also rationing.
Such actions would bring good head-
lines tomorrow, and bad headaches 6
months from now for every American
family in terms of rationing, black mar-
kets, and eventually a recession that
would mean more unemployment.
is
It is your prosperity that is at stake. It
your job that is at stake.
The actions I have directed today are
designed to deal with the rise in the cost
of living without jeopardizing your pros-
perity or your job.
Because the key to curbing food prices
lies in increasing supplies, I am not freez-
ing the price of unprocessed agricultural
products at the farm level. This would
reduce supplies instead of increasing them.
It would eventually result in even higher
prices for the foods you buy at the super-
market.
Beginning in 1972, we embarked on a
comprehensive new program for increas-
ing food supplies. Among many other
measures, this has included opening up 40
million more acres for crop production. In
the months ahead, as these new crops are
harvested, they will help hold prices
down. But unfortunately, this is not yet
helping in terms of the prices you pay at
the supermarket today, or the prices you
will be paying tomorrow.
One of the major reasons for the rise
in food prices at home is that there is now
an unprecedented demand abroad for the
products of America's farms. Over the
long run, increased food exports will be a
vital factor in raising farm income, in
improving our balance of payments, in
supporting America's position of leader-
ship in the world. In the short term, how-
585
