[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
"crisis of our cities." Problems were multi-
plying so rapidly for our larger urban areas
that some observers said our cities were
doomed as centers of culture, of com-
merce, and of constructive change.
Many of these problems still persist, but
I believe we have made sufficient progress
in recent years that fears of doom are no
longer justified.
What is needed today is calm reflection
upon the nature of modern community
life in the United States, a reassessment of
the manner in which we are trying to solve
our remaining problems, and a firm re-
solve to get on with the task.
America's communities are as diverse
as our people themselves. They vary tre-
mendously in size from massive cities to
medium-sized urban and suburban areas,
to small towns and rural communities.
Just as importantly, each of our com-
munities has built up strong individual
characteristics over the years, shaped by
region, climate, economic influences,
ethnic origins and local culture.
Of course, communities do share com-
mon needs and concerns. People in every
community want adequate housing, trans-
portation, and jobs, a clean environment,
good health, education, recreation facili-
ties, security from crime and fear, and
other essential services. But local priorities
differ; the intensity and order of local
needs vary.
Clearly, no single, rigid scheme, imposed
by the Federal Government from Wash-
ington, is capable of meeting the chang-
ing and varied needs of this diverse and
dynamic Nation.
There is no "best" way, no magic, uni-
versal cure-all, that can be dispensed from
hundreds or thousands of miles away.
What is good for New York City is not
necessarily good for Chicago, or San Fran-
cisco, much less for smaller communities
with entirely different economies, tradi-
tions and populations.
Too often in the past we have fallen
into the trap of letting Washington make
the final decisions for St. Louis, Detroit,
Miami and our other cities. Sometimes the
decisions were right, and programs have
succeeded. Too often they were wrong,
and we are still paying the price.
The time has come to recognize the er-
rors of past Federal efforts to support com-
munity development and to move swiftly
to correct them.
The results of past errors form a disturb-
ing catalogue:
-They have distorted local priorities.
-They have spawned a massive glut of
red tape.
-They have created an adversary cli-
mate between local communities and
Washington which has often led to waste,
delay and mutual frustration.
-They have contributed to a lack of
confidence among our people in the ability
of both local and national governments
to solve problems and get results.
-They have led to the creation of too
many complex and often competing Fed-
eral programs.
-Perhaps worst of all, they have under-
cut the will and the ability of local and
State governments to take the initiative to
mobilize their own energies and those of
their citizens.
The Federal policy that will work best
in the last third of this century is not one
that tries to force all of our communities
into a single restrictive mold. The Federal
policy that will work best is one that helps
people and their leaders in each commu-
nity meet their own needs in the way
they think best.
It is this policy which binds together
172
