Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
the longest war in America's history but
in which we laid the foundation for turn-
ing the blessings of peace into a better
life for all.
With the Congress, the Administration,
and the people working together toward
this goal, we can achieve it. It means
using to the fullest the days and weeks
remaining in this year 1973. It means a
willingness on the part of both the Execu-
tive and the Congress to cooperate and
to seek solutions that are in the common
interest.
It also means holding the spotlight of
public attention and public debate on
those issues that directly and personally af-
fect you and your lives. For it is your at-
tention-your participation in the debate
and discussion-that in the final analysis
will determine whether and how well
these goals are achieved.
It means that the Congress should join
the Executive in making up for the pre-
cious time lost this year in failing to act on
those measures which vitally affect every
American-by going into extra session, if
necessary, to complete the people's busi-
ness before the year ends.
It will take all of us together—the
Congress, the Administration, and the
public-but we can make this a year of
achievement of which we can all be proud.
I ask for your best efforts, and I pledge
you mine.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded for
broadcast at 2 p.m. on nationwide radio.
253 Special Message to the Congress on National
Legislative Goals. September 10, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
As the Congress reconvenes for the clos-
ing months of the 1973 legislative season,
it returns to a critical challenge.
Our country faces many pressing prob-
lems which must be solved with dispatch.
Americans want and deserve decisive
action to fight rising prices. And they want
every possible step taken now-not a year
from now or in the next session of the
Congress.
Americans want and deserve decisive
action this year to ensure that we will have
enough heat for our homes, enough power
for our factories, and enough fuel for our
transportation.
They want and deserve decisive action
this year to combat crime and drug abuse.
The national rate of serious crime is now
heading down for the first time in 17
years, and they want that downward
spiral to continue.
There is also an immediate need to im-
prove the quality of our schools, reform
Federal programs for our cities and towns,
provide better job training, revamp our
housing programs, institute lasting re-
forms in campaign practices, and
strengthen our position in world markets.
Of transcending importance is Ameri-
ca's continuing commitment to building
a lasting structure of world peace. Our
people are now at peace for the first time
in more than a decade, and they expect
their leaders to do all that is necessary to
maintain the peace, including those ac-
tions which preserve the Nation's strong
defense posture.
At the same time, it is apparent as the
fall legislative season begins that many
761
