[64] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
combating the nation's most serious
health problem-heart and blood vessel
diseases."
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Dr. Yu.
In accepting this award, Doctor, I
want to accept it on behalf of those of you
who deserve it, and that is the volunteers
both here in the District of Columbia and
all over this Nation.
I noted in my talking papers that I was
to mention the fact that I should accept
it because, and make note of the fact that,
this Administration has committed ap-
proximately $100 million to research in
the field of heart disease and the rest.
But I cannot take credit for that. The
taxpayers of America, all of the American
people, have made it possible for this re-
search to go forward.
That is the governmental side, but what
is done on the voluntary side, which you
represent here today, is equally important.
This is the seed money, and then the
volunteers will go far beyond that in find-
ing, certainly, a solution to this problem.
Just let me say one thing personally. As
you presented this, here in this Oval Office
of the President, I think about the two
Presidents the three Presidents-who
preceded me in this office. President Eisen-
hower, of course, had a heart attack in
1955, and eventually that was the cause of
death; and that President Johnson had a
heart attack while he was in the Senate
and that that was the cause of death.
I think back over my public life of going
to visit President Eisenhower in Denver
right after his heart attack, which is some-
thing that I will never forget, and also
going to visit President Johnson when he
was in Bethesda Hospital. I am not sug-
gesting by that that Presidents are particu-
larly susceptible to heart attacks, but I do
know that those who carry rather heavy
burdens in offices like this, even the doc-
tors say might be more susceptible to a
heart attack than some others.
And so on behalf of President John-
son, President Eisenhower, and all the
American people, and particularly on be-
half of the volunteers, I accept this.
And I am glad Mrs. Nixon is here, be-
cause she has made talks all over the coun-
try for various affairs where money is
raised for this in the voluntary sector, so
I give her the award.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at
12:15 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White
House.
On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on Administration actions
in the field of heart research.
65 Statement on the Slaying of Two American Diplomats
by Terrorists in Khartoum, The Sudan. March 2, 1973
IT WAS with the deepest sense of grief
that I have learned of the acts of terror-
ism which took the lives of Ambassador
Cleo A. Noel and Deputy Chief of Mission
George Curtis Moore. The United States
is emphasizing its strong feeling that the
perpetrators of this crime must be brought
to justice.
This tragic event underscores once
again the need for all nations to take a
firm stand against the menace of interna-
tional terrorism. I know the American
162
