Richard Nixon, 1973
June 8 [173]
their wives and their mothers, who stood
by them through the period that they
were gone.
Now, having spoken of the challenge
of world leadership, the necessity to keep
an economy strong, there is a nagging
thought that often is raised at commence-
ment addresses: Why does America have
to carry this burden? Wouldn't it be bet-
ter, some say, if we could grow up in a
nation that didn't have to be a world
leader, where we could simply look in-
ward to our own problems, where it didn't
matter whether the United States played
a role in Europe, or with the Soviets, or
with the Chinese, or in Asia, or in Latin
America, or what have you?
The answer is, my friends: Some might
think it would be better, but if the United
States, in the foreseeable future, does not
play a role, the danger to the United
States and to other nations will be
infinitely greater than it is today.
No nation can be an island, and par-
ticularly the United States cannot "bug
out" of its responsibilities in the world
because we are a power for peace, and the
last few years have demonstrated, we have
proved, that we deserve respect and that
the world can have our confidence.
So, as a graduate looking forward to
the years ahead, one way you could look
ahead would be to say, "Away with these
burdens. Let me just turn to the problems
that I have at home."
Another way you could look ahead is to
say, "Let us deal with our problems at
home, but let us always be not simply
moaning about the problems of world
leadership, but let us be proud that in our
generation we, right now, have the chance
to do something that no generation of
Americans has ever had the chance to do:
to build a lasting structure of peace in the
world."
I like the sound of the latter, and I
think it is good for America insofar as its
internal attitudes are concerned. Presi-
dent de Gaulle once said to me that
France is never her true self unless she
is engaged in a great enterprise. If you
forget everything else I have said, remem-
ber that. No individual, no nation, no or-
ganization can ever be its true self unless
it is engaged in an enterprise bigger than
itself, in a great enterprise.
To members of this class and all of
you
listening today, building the peace of the
world is a great enterprise. Building a
prosperity without war and without in-
flation is a great enterprise. Building a
better environment is a great enterprise.
Building the spirit of America to meet
these challenges is a great enterprise.
I say to you, members of the graduat-
ing class, there are problems. But we have
the means, you have the means in your
hands, to solve those problems. And I con-
clude, as I began, by saying, in the whole
history of the world, in all the nations
of the world, there has never been a time
when I would rather be a graduate than
in the year 1973 in the United States of
America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m.
Dr. Charles N. Millican was president of
Florida Technological University.
583
