[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
conduct, including the Watergate affair
and the alleged coverup.
If you have revised or modified this
position, as you seem to have done, could
you explain the rationale of a law-and-
order Administration covering up evi-
dence, prima facie evidence, of high
crimes and misdemeanors?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I should point
out that perhaps all the other reporters in
the room are aware of the fact that we
have waived executive privilege on all
individuals within the Administration. It
has been the greatest waiver of executive
privilege in the whole history of this
Nation.
And as far as any other matters are
concerned, the matters of the tapes, the
matters of Presidential conversations,
those are matters in which the President
has a responsibility to defend this office,
which I shall continue to do.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-fifth news con-
ference was held at 7:01 p.m. in the East Room
at the White House on Friday, October 26,
1973. It was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
313 Statement on the Death of Representative John P. Saylor
of Pennsylvania. October 28, 1973
JOHN P. SAYLOR was a Congressman
of exceptional stature. During nearly a
quarter of a century of service in the
House of Representatives, he rose to stand
among the top rank of his party in se-
niority and earned the high esteem of col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle. Long
before the issues of conservation, natural
resources, and environmental quality
came to fashion, he was helping to shape
wise national policy for these vital con-
cerns. His Pennsylvania constituents came
to trust him implicitly for faithful repre-
sentation of their interest and needs, and
we in Washington learned to count on him
for unflagging legislative responsibility, in-
dependence, and integrity.
Mrs. Nixon joins me in mourning the
loss of a former House colleague, long-
time friend, and dedicated public servant
whose death bereaves all Americans.
NOTE: Representative Saylor, 65, died in Hous-
ton, Tex. He was elected to Congress in 1949
and was senior Republican member of the
House Interior Committee at the time of his
death.
The White House later announced that Max
L. Friedersdorf, Deputy Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Legislative Affairs, was designated to
represent the President in funeral services in
Johnstown, Pa., on November 1, 1973-
314 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Danish Treaty on Extradition. October 30, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradi-
tion between the United States of Amer-
ica and the Kingdom of Denmark, signed
at Copenhagen on June 22, 1972. I trans-
mit also, for the information of the Senate,
the report of the Department of State with
respect to the Treaty.
906
