[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
starvation, the United States provided
emergency grain above and beyond the
quantities already being provided.
Where civil strife has occurred, the
United States has responded with gener-
osity and impartiality to the basic human
needs of the victims of conflict. In the last
year, even before the resumption of diplo-
matic ties with Sudan, we provided hu-
manitarian aid to the Sudanese Govern-
ment for the resettlement of refugees in
the southern part of that country. The
United States contributed to interna-
tional programs to relieve the suffering of
refugees who had fled from Burundi to
neighboring countries. When Asians were
expelled from Uganda, this country
opened its doors to 1,500 of their number.
STABILITY IN AFRICA
There is no area of the world where
states are more assertive of their national
independence and sovereignty than in
Africa. This is understandable because of
still fresh memories of colonial experi-
ences and because so many of these states
continue to feel vulnerable to outside
intervention and internal subversion. In
each of my Foreign Policy Reports to
Congress I have affirmed that non-inter-
ference in African internal affairs is a car-
dinal principle of United States policy.
I reaffirm that principle, and pledge that
we shall respect it. The same obligation
rests on other outside powers. We believe
that restraint should characterize great
power conduct. This is in the interest of
Africa's secure place in the international
system, and in the interest of Africa's
stability.
Africa's nations themselves have
proven to be the best champions of their
right to determine their own future.
African leadership has accomplished im-
pressive examples of nation-building.
-Ethiopia, under the Emperor's
leadership, has for decades been a
symbol of African independence and
a leader of institutions of African
unity.
-Nigeria has not only survived a bitter
civil war; it has gone far toward na-
tional reconciliation. Today it is a
united, confident nation.
-Strife-torn Congo (Kinshasa) has
transformed itself into the new and
stable Zaire, with promising pros-
pects for development.
---In Sudan, years of warfare between
north and south were ended in 1972
and the nation embarked on a new
era of unity and reconstruction.
These achievements by four of Africa's
largest and most important states are
grounds for confidence in Africa's future.
African nations have also shown their
determination to safeguard the peace of
their own continent. Out of their great
diversity, they have fashioned institutions
which have dampened political conflicts
and provided mutual support for common
purposes. The Organization of African
Unity, celebrating its tenth anniversary
this year, deserves special note. African
states also have worked out bilateral solu-
tions to serious problems. The accord
reached in 1972 between Sudan and
Ethiopia, which helped settle Sudan's in-
ternal conflict, and the understanding
reached last year between Morocco and
Algeria over their border dispute were
two noteworthy achievements.
There also were serious disappoint-
ments in 1972. It would be less than can-
did not to mention them, for I am sure
464
