Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 1 [225]
225 Joint Communique Following Discussions With Prime
Minister Tanaka of Japan.
1. Prime Minister Tanaka and Presi-
dent Nixon met in Washington July 31
and August 1 for comprehensive and
fruitful explorations of a wide variety of
subjects of mutual interest.
2. The discussions of the two leaders,
held in an atmosphere of cordiality and
trust, reflected in tone and content the
breadth and closeness of relations between
Japan and the United States. The pri-
mary focus of this meeting was the many
common goals which Japan and the
United States share and the common com-
mitment of the two nations to a new era
in this friendly relationship. They empha-
sized the high value they place on the
important role that each plays in the cause
of world peace and prosperity and the
strong desirability of proceeding together
toward that common objective by cooper-
ative efforts wherever possible around the
globe.
3. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent confirmed the durable character of
the friendly and cooperative relations be-
tween Japan and the United States, which
are based on a common political philos-
ophy of individual liberties and open
societies, and a sense of interdependence.
They noted especially that the relation-
ship between their two countries has an
increasingly important global aspect and
makes a significant contribution to the
movement toward peaceful relations
throughout the world.
4. Expressing their satisfaction with
the continuous dialogue which has taken
place at various levels on subjects of mu-
tual interest since their meeting in Hawaii
in September 1972, the Prime Minister
August 1, 1973
and the President reviewed developments
in the international situation. They dis-
cussed the global trend toward détente, as
evidenced by the progress of the dialogue
between the United States and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, the forth-
coming negotiations on the mutual re-
duction of forces and armaments in Cen-
tral Europe, the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe, the return
of the People's Republic of China to the
international community, and the signing
of the Paris Agreements for a peace set-
tlement in Indochina. They expressed the
hope that this trend would lead to the
peaceful settlement of disputes through-
out the world.
5. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent agreed on the need to maintain con-
tinuous consultation on questions of mu-
tual concern in the international political
field. They expressed their satisfaction
with progress made in the area of arms
control and the avoidance of conflict,
including the SALT agreements and the
US-Soviet Agreement on the Prevention
of Nuclear War.
6. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted with satisfaction the normali-
zation of relations between Japan and
the People's Republic of China and the
movement toward more normal relations
between the United States and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China. They expressed
their strong hope for a stable and lasting
peace in Indochina through scrupulous
implementation of the Paris Agreements.
They reaffirmed their resolve to assist the
rehabilitation of Indochina. They wel-
comed the new developments in the
677
