[269] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
269 Veto of the Small Business Administration Loan
Ceiling and Disaster Loan Amendments.
September 22, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning today without my ap-
proval S. 1672, a bill to amend the Small
Business Act.
The stated purpose of this measure is to
improve the legislative authority of the
Small Business Administration, and I am
in complete accord with that objective.
Unfortunately, this legislation is also bur-
dened with several extremely undesirable
features-provisions which would repre-
sent a backward march for the Federal
Government's disaster relief programs-
and for that reason, I am compelled to
veto it.
Last year our Nation experienced the
worst series of natural disasters in recent
memory: I visited several of the affected
areas and talked with the victims. Many
of them pointed out problems they were
having with Federal aid.
As a result of those discussions, I or-
dered a thorough review of all Federal
disaster assistance programs, and earlier
this year I proposed legislation that would
fundamentally restructure them. The
purpose of those proposals was simple:
to help disaster victims in the fastest, most
efficient and most humane way possible--
and in a way that would target our as-
sistance on those genuinely in need. The
Federal Government has a clear respon-
sibility to help disaster victims who can-
not help themselves, especially low-in-
come families, but those who have their
own resources should not use the general
taxpayer as a crutch.
If I were to sign this bill, we would
turn our back on these objectives and re-
instate practices that have proven un-
worthy in the past. In fact, this bill would
reopen a leaky financial tap in the Fed-
eral Treasury which the Congress itself
closed last April.
The provisions of S. 1672 which I find
unacceptable are these:
-At a large and unnecessary expense
to the taxpayer, this bill would provide
Federally subsidized loans and grants to
all disaster victims regardless of economic
need. A wealthy landowner, who could
provide for himself through insurance or
could easily obtain a private loan, would
be entitled to a $2500 free grant from the
Government and an additional loan at
only three percent interest. Alternatively,
he could forego the grant and obtain a
loan for the full amount at only one per-
cent interest. A poor family could qualify
for the same aid under this bill, but it is
unlikely they would require as large a
loan as richer families. The net result
would be greater Federal assistance for
the well-to-do than the needy, and an
even larger bill for the general taxpayer.
That is not my idea of good government.
--The cost for the taxpayer of S. 1672
would be approximately $400 million in
Federal spending for each $1 billion in
loans. While we cannot precisely forecast
future costs, we do know that if our
disaster experiences in the next 12 months
are the same as last year, this bill would
add $800 million to the Federal budget.
In addition, this bill would slow the
Federal Government's ability to respond
818
