[186] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
holdings solely on the basis of its own
mission and without full regard for our
broader policies.
Today, in order to foster the develop-
ment of more effective national policies
that apply to all agencies and depart-
ments, I am creating a Federal Property
Council within the Executive Office of the
President.
It is specifically charged with reviewing
all Federal real property policies to test
their consistency with the overall objec-
tives of the Government and with recom-
mending to me such reforms, modifica-
tions, or initiatives as seem necessary.
The Administrator of General Services
will continue to conduct surveys of Fed-
eral properties, identifying those which he
believes can be put to better use and rec-
ommending appropriate action. The Fed-
eral Property Council will study his re-
ports and will assist in the resolution of
any conflicting claims for the use of
properties.
The new Council will also assume all
other duties of the Property Review
Board, including the development of the
Legacy of Parks program. The Board is
being abolished.
I have asked Mrs. Anne Armstrong,
Counsellor to the President and Chairman
of the Property Review Board, to serve
as Chairman of the Federal Property
Council.
Other members of the Council will in-
clude Roy Ash, Director of the Office of
Management and Budget; Bryce Harlow,
Counsellor to the President; Leonard
Garment, [Acting] Counsel to the Presi-
dent; Herbert Stein, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers; William
Timmons, Assistant to the President for
Legislative Affairs; and Russell Train,
Chairman of the Council on Environmen-
tal Quality.
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11724, which established the
Federal Property Council.
The statement and a fact sheet on the prop-
erty review program were released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
An announcement containing biographical
data on Mrs. Armstrong and an announcement
about the transfer of additional lands under the
Legacy of Parks program were also released
on the same day and are printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, pp. 858-859).
187 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United
States-Italian Treaty on Extradition.
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradi-
tion between the United States of Amer-
ica and Italy, signed at Rome on
January 18, 1973. I transmit also, for the
information of the Senate, the report of
the Department of State with respect to
the Treaty.
June 26, 1973
The Treaty significantly updates the
extradition relations between the United
States and Italy and adds to the list of
extraditable offenses both narcotic of-
fenses, including those involving psycho-
tropic drugs, and aircraft hijacking.
The Treaty will make a significant con-
tribution to the international effort to
control narcotics traffic and to cope with
other offenses. I recommend that the
620
