[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
energy resources located on Federal lands,
increased efforts in the development of
nuclear power, and a new Federal or-
ganization to plan and manage our energy
programs.
In the twenty-two months since I sub-
mitted that message, America's energy re-
search and development efforts have been
expanded by 50 percent.
In order to increase domestic produc-
tion of conventional fuels, sales of oil
and gas leases on the Outer Continental
Shelf have been increased. Federal and
State standards to protect the marine en-
vironment in which these leases are lo-
cated are being tightened. We have de-
veloped a more rigorous surveillance
capability and an improved ability to pre-
vent and clean up oil spills.
We are planning to proceed with the
development of oil shale and geothermal
energy sources on Federal lands, so long
as an evaluation now underway shows
that our environment can be adequately
protected.
We have also taken new steps to ex-
pand our uranium enrichment capacity
for the production of fuels for nuclear
power plants, to standardize nuclear
power plant designs, and to ensure the
continuation of an already enviable safety
record.
We have issued new standards and
guidelines, and have taken other actions
to increase and encourage better conser-
vation of energy.
In short, we have made a strong be-
ginning in our effort to ensure that Amer-
ica will always have the power needed to
fuel its prosperity. But what we have ac-
complished is only a beginning.
Now we must build on our increased
knowledge, and on the accomplishments
of the past twenty-two months, to de-
velop a more comprehensive, integrated
national energy policy. To carry out this
policy we must:
-increase domestic production of all
forms of energy;
-act to conserve energy more
effectively;
-strive to meet our energy needs at the
lowest cost consistent with the pro-
tection of both our national security
and our natural environment;
-reduce excessive regulatory and ad-
ministrative impediments which have
delayed or prevented construction of
energy-producing facilities;
-act in concert with other nations to
conduct research in the energy field
and to find ways to prevent serious
shortages; and
-apply our vast scientific and tech-
nological capacities both public
and private so we can utilize our
current energy resources more wisely
and develop new sources and new
forms of energy.
The actions I am announcing today and
the proposals I am submitting to the Con-
gress are designed to achieve these ob-
jectives. They reflect the fact that we are
in a period of transition, in which we
must work to avoid or at least minimize
short-term supply shortages, while we act
to expand and develop our domestic sup-
plies in order to meet long-term energy
needs.
We should not suppose this transition
period will be easy. The task ahead will
require the concerted and cooperative ef-
forts of consumers, industry, and
government.
304
