[44] Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
marketplace. The new flexibility per-
mitted by the Agricultural Act of 1970
has enabled us to help expand farm mar-
kets and take advantage of the opportun-
ity to increase exports by almost 60 percent
in just three years. Net farm income is at
an all-time high, up from $16.1 billion
in 1971 to $19 billion in 1972.
PRINCIPLES TO GUIDE US
A record is not something to stand on;
it is something to build on. And in this
field of natural resources and the environ-
ment, we intend to build diligently and
well.
As we strive to transform our concern
into action, our efforts will be guided by
five basic principles:
The first principle is that we must strike
a balance so that the protection of our
irreplaceable heritage becomes as impor-
tant as its use. The price of economic
growth need not and will not be deteriora-
tion in the quality of our lives and our
surroundings.
Second, because there are no local or
State boundaries to the problems of our
environment, the Federal Government
must play an active, positive role. We can
and will set standards and exercise
leadership. We are providing necessary
funding support. And we will provide en-
couragement and incentive for others to
help with the job. But Washington must
not displace State and local initiative, and
we shall expect the State and local govern-
ments--along with the private sector--to
play the central role in making the diffi-
cult, particular decisions which lie ahead.
Third, the costs of pollution should be
more fully met in the free marketplace,
not in the Federal budget. For example,
the price of pollution control devices for
automobiles should be borne by the owner
and the user and not by the general tax-
payer. The costs of eliminating pollution
should be reflected in the costs of goods
and services.
Fourth, we must realize that each in-
dividual must take the responsibility for
looking after his own home and work-
place. These daily surroundings are the
environment where most Americans spend
most of their time. They reflect people's
pride in themselves and their considera-
tion for their communities. A person's
backyard is not the domain of the Federal
Government.
Finally, we must remain confident that
America's technological and economic
ingenuity will be equal to our environ-
mental challenges. We will not look upon
these challenges as insurmountable
obstacles.
Instead, we shall convert the so-called
crisis of the environment into an oppor-
tunity for unprecedented progress.
CONTROLLING POLLUTION
We have made great progress in devel-
oping the laws and institutions to clean up
pollution. We now have formidable new
tools to protect against air, water and noise
pollution and the special problem of pesti-
cides. But to protect ourselves fully from
harmful contaminants, we must still close
several gaps in governmental authority.
I was keenly disappointed when the last
Congress failed to take action on many
of my legislative requests related to our
natural resources and environment. In the
coming weeks I shall once again send
these urgently needed proposals to the
Congress so that the unfinished environ-
96
