Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 1 [61]
that these principles are carried out in all
Federal activities aimed at meeting human
needs, as well as in the Federal Govern-
ment's complex relationships with State
and local governments in this field. The
coordinating function to be performed
by this Counsellor should materially in-
crease the unity, coherence, and effec-
tiveness of our policies.
The following sections present a review
of the progress we have made over the
past four years in bringing each of the
various human resources activities into
line with these principles, and they out-
line our agenda for the years ahead.
HEALTH
I am committed to removing financial
barriers that would limit access to quality
medical care for all American families.
To that end, we have nearly doubled Fed-
eral outlays for health since the begin-
ning of this Administration. Next year,
they will exceed $30 billion.
Nearly 60 percent of these funds will
go to finance health care for older Amer-
icans, the disabled, and the poor, through
Medicare and Medicaid.
But we have taken significant steps to
meet other priority needs as well. In the
last four years, funding for cancer and
heart and lung disease research has more
than doubled; it will amount to more than
three-quarters of a billion dollars in 1974.
We have supported reform of the health
care delivery system and have proposed
legislation to assist in the development
of health maintenance organizations on a
demonstration basis. We have increased
funds for programs which help prevent
illness, such as those which help carry
out our pure food and drug laws and
those which promote consumer safety.
We have declared total war on the
epidemic problem of drug abuse-and we
are winning that war. We have come a
long way toward our goal of creating suf-
ficient treatment services so that any ad-
dict desiring treatment can obtain it. We
are also making substantial investments in
research to develop innovative treatment
approaches to drug abuse. I will report
in greater detail on our anti-drug effort in
a later section of this year's State of the
Union message.
Strong measures have been taken to
ensure that health care costs do not con-
tribute to inflation and price people out
of the care they need. The rate of increase
in physicians' fees was cut by two-thirds
last year alone, and hospital price rises
have also been slowed. To build on these
gains, controls on the health services in-
dustry have been retained and will be
strengthened under Phase III of the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Program.
A major goal of this Administration has
been to develop an insurance system which
can guarantee adequate financing of
health care for every American family.
The 92nd Congress failed to act upon my
1971 proposal to accomplish this goal, and
now the need for legislation has grown
still more pressing. I shall once again sub-
mit to the Congress legislation to help
meet the Nation's health insurance needs.
Federal health policy should seek to
safeguard this country's pluralistic health
care system and to build on its strengths,
minimizing reliance on Government-run
arrangements. We must recognize appro-
priate limits to the Federal role, and we
must see that every health care dollar is
spent as effectively as possible.
This means discontinuing federally
funded health programs which have
served their purpose, or which have
137
