Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Groups of Chinese doctors and scientists
visited their counterparts in this country
during the fall, under the sponsorship of
the Committee on Scholarly Communica-
tion with the People's Republic of China.
And in December, the Shenyang Acro-
batic Troupe performed in four major
American cities in a visit facilitated by the
National Committee on U.S.-China
Relations.
In turn, increasing numbers of Ameri-
cans visited the People's Republic of
China. The Majority and Minority lead-
ers of the Senate were guests of the Chi-
nese People's Institute of Foreign Affairs
in April 1972, as were the House leaders
in June. A group of doctors from the Na-
tional Medical Association and a delega-
tion of computer scientists visited their
counterparts in China in the summer and
fall. Among the journalists who toured
the People's Republic during the year was
a delegation from the American Society
of Newspaper Editors. And in the schol-
arly areas, groups of distinguished Ameri-
can economists and China specialists
toured the country, as well as substantial
numbers of individual scientists and
scholars from various fields.
Thus there was a significant resump-
tion of cultural, scientific, and scholarly
contacts, and the public media began to
inform our peoples about one another.
Chinese and Americans were rebuilding
historic bonds.
A solid foundation was therefore estab-
lished before Dr. Kissinger returned to
Peking in February of this year in the
wake of the Vietnam peace settlement.
The joint announcement after that trip
pointed to major progress in our relations
with the People's Republic of China:
-There were "earnest, frank, and con-
structive" talks in an "unconstrained
atmosphere" with Chairman Mao,
Premier Chou, and other Chinese
officials.
-The two sides reaffirmed the princi-
ples of the Shanghai Communique
and agreed to accelerate the normali-
zation of relations.
-We agreed to broaden contacts in all
fields, and establish a concrete pro-
gram to expand trade and exchanges
still further.
-We decided to settle in a comprehen-
sive manner the long-standing issues
of private U.S. claims against the
Chinese government and blocked
Chinese assets in the United States.
Secretary of State Rogers and Chi-
nese Foreign Minister Chi P'eng-fei
reached agreement in principle on
this issue a week later in Paris. Final
settlement will open the way for fur-
ther expansion of our bilateral com-
mercial relations.
-Most importantly, we agreed that
each country would establish a Liai-
son Office in the capital of the other.
They will be functioning very shortly.
Both sides have appointed senior rep-
resentatives with long diplomatic
experience. This major step both re-
flects and will promote the in-
crease in our communications and
bilateral programs. Practically, the
offices will enable us to deal with
each other directly in Washington
and Peking. Symbolically, they un-
derline the progress made to date
and our joint intention to proceed on
the path we have chosen. They repre-
sent a milestone in our developing
relationship.
-The Chinese agreed to free the two
American pilots captured during the
Vietnam War. They also promised to
363
