Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
rope, I am determined no less to
strengthen our alliance with Japan.
OUR ALLIANCE AND ITS EVOLUTION
In 1969, when I came into office, the
challenge of new conditions presented it-
self concretely in the issue of Okinawa.
For 25 years since the war, the United
States had retained the administrative
rights to Okinawa to protect military in-
stallations there which were, and still are,
vitally important to the defense of East
and Southeast Asia. By the mid-1960's,
however, the Japanese had come to feel
strongly that our continued administra-
tion of Okinawa was inconsistent with
Japan's national dignity and sovereignty.
We risked a crisis in our relations if we
did not respond.
Therefore, I made the basic choice: our
long-term relationship with Japan was
clearly our fundamental interest. Accord-
ingly, at my summit meeting with Prime
Minister Sato in November 1969, we an-
nounced our agreement on the reversion
of Okinawa to Japanese administration
by 1972. The United States could con-
tinue to use such facilities there as the two
countries agreed were required for mu-
tual security, but subject to the same terms
as facilities elsewhere in Japan. At the
same time, in the communique of that
summit meeting, Japan and the United
States declared more explicitly than ever
before our joint commitment to active co-
operation in diplomacy and security in the
Far East, and in economic relations
bilaterally and worldwide.
Thus in 1969 the United States ac-
knowledged the new Japan. Our two gov-
ernments addressed an outstanding prob-
lem, treated it as a common problem, and
solved it. We reaffirmed our essen-
tial unity of purpose. In 1970, when the
Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Se-
curity became technically subject to re-
view, neither government raised any doubt
about its continuing validity and
importance.
But the adjustment we made in 1969
proved to be only the beginning of a com-
plex process of transition in our relations.
For twenty years we had achieved com-
mon policies in the areas of East-West di-
plomacy, economics, and mutual security
with relative ease. It is clear today that
this was in part the product of unique
conditions in the postwar period that are
no longer with us. An adjustment in all
our alliance relationships was inevitable.
Today, the harmony of our policies is far
from automatic. We and all our allies
have a heavy responsibility to proceed
from an understanding of both the posi-
tive and the negative possibilities of our
independent action.
It was also inevitable that this transi-
tion into a new political environment
would pose a particular challenge for
Japan.
The character of our alliance had been
shaped in the period of Japanese depend-
ence. Defeat in war had shattered her
economy, political system, and national
confidence. Occupation, the Cold War,
and Japan's own renunciation of offen-
sive military capability put her in the
position of almost total reliance on our
military protection. Japan accepted
American leadership and only gradually
to take part in international
diplomacy.
This was not an uncomfortable ar-
rangement then for either the United
States or Japan. The United States in the
postwar period assumed the role and bore
the responsibilities which our preponder-
419
