Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 14 [329]
April 15, 1973, conversation with
Mr. Dean.
(4) All other materials covered by the
court order.
I have also authorized my Counsel to
make available to the court certain tape
recordings not covered by the court order
to assist the court in verifying that the two
conversations in question were not re-
corded. The additional tape recordings to
be provided are (a) the full reel of tele-
phone recordings covering the period of
June 20, 1972, and (b) the two reels of
tape which were on the recorders for my
Executive Office Building office on April
15, 1973. This will permit the court to
check the sequence of the conversations
against my daily logs of meetings and
telephone conversations already provided
to the court, and thus further demon-
strate that the Mitchell and Dean con-
versations in question were not recorded.
I have also agreed that a group of
court-approved independent experts em-
ploying the most advanced technological
methods shall examine all tapes in ques-
tion for any evidence of alterations to the
tapes.
It is my hope that these steps will clear
up this aspect of the Watergate matter
once and for all.
329 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Customs
Convention on Containers, 1972, and the International
Convention for Safe Containers. November 14, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification (1)
the Customs Convention on Containers,
1972, and (2) the International Conven-
tion for Safe Containers, both signed at
Geneva on December 5, 1972. I transmit
also, for the information of the Senate, the
report of the Secretary of State with re-
spect to the Conventions.
The Customs Convention on Contain-
ers, 1972, is designed to supersede and
update the Customs Convention on Con-
tainers of 1956. The new Convention pro-
vides for the temporary importation of
containers free of import duties and taxes
and free of import prohibitions and
restrictions. It also harmonizes and unifies
technical provisions applicable to con-
tainers used for transport of merchandise
under Customs seal and provides for the
use of temporarily imported containers in
internal transport operations under spec-
ified conditions. This Convention is im-
portant because it will insure United
States-owned containers the same treat-
ment in the territories of States parties to
this Convention as that afforded in the
United States to foreign-owned con-
tainers.
The International Convention for Safe
Containers specifies structural require-
ments for certain transport containers to
assure their safe operation. The need for
an international convention on this topic
became apparent with the threat of
proliferation of individual State safety re-
quirements which would be applicable to
all containers transiting their respective
borders. The safety record of the con-
933
