[297] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
people and nations. No man could seek a greater
monument.
Now, the Secretary, of course, is des-
perately will you please be seated-is
desperately trying to get up here to re-
spond, but I have another award to make
tonight, one that I know that even he did
not anticipate.
I think that we sometimes underesti-
mate the great role that is played by those
who stand by our side, and when we think
of Mrs. William Rogers-Adele Rogers,
as we know her-when we think of her
graciousness through the years, of her su-
perb poise, I think that we all would say
that she truly deserved the title of being
the First Lady of the Cabinet.
And consequently, tonight, an award
is appropriate for her as well. The Presi-
dent's Citizens Medal has only been
awarded once before, to Roberto Cle-
mente posthumously, and so the second
President's Citizens Medal will be
awarded tonight and awarded to one who
does not hold a government position, be-
cause the Citizens Medal does not go to
people who held government positions,
but to one who, standing with her hus-
band, has represented this country at
home and abroad with such magnificent
dignity and poise and grace. I read now
the citation:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL CITIZENS MEDAL
ΤΟ
ADELE ROGERS
As the Nation's premiere hostess in foreign
affairs, Adele Rogers provided a warmth and
charm that helped to humanize the climate of
diplomacy in a time of vital American initia-
tives for peace. Her work as a leader in volun-
tary action and community affairs among her
fellow Cabinet and Foreign Service wives set
an example for millions in a time of widening
horizons for American women. The first woman
ever honored with this award, her achievements
eloquently prove its credo-that a citizen need
not hold public office to render far-reaching
public service.
That is the first secret the State Depart-
ment ever kept. [Laughter]
Now, we will, however, having awarded
the Citizens Medal to Adele Rogers, we
will give to Bill Rogers, Secretary Bill
Rogers, the opportunity to respond.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House following
a dinner honoring the former Secretary of
State and his wife.
On the same day, the White House released
fact sheets on the two awards.
Mr. Rogers responded as follows:
Mr. President, Pat, distinguished ladies and
gentlemen:
I am at a loss for words because I had no
inkling this would happen. I don't blame the
President for not telling me, but I think my
wife must have known, and I resent it.
I listened to what the President had to say
about how many speeches I had made, how
many conferences I had gone to, and recalling
the 25 years we-well, 30 years we have known
each other and the many speeches that he has
made and many speeches that I have made
and the many speeches that Pat has had to
listen to and Adele has had to listen to, I think
it is a miracle that Pat and Adele still look so
young.
I am particularly pleased to be here tonight
for obvious reasons and to receive this award,
which I will cherish, but particularly because
there are so many people here that have meant
so much to us over the years. It is a little bit as
if it were "This is Your Life," in the grand
manner. Mamie Eisenhower meant so much to
the President, Pat, and Adele and me, and is
certainly one of the most loved women in the
world. We are very happy, Mamie, that you
are here tonight.
And the Nixon family, and the new Vice
President-designate that has been so well re-
ceived, and we are all so proud of, members
of the Cabinet, Chief Justice of the United
878
