[98] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
stop the rise in meat prices now. And that
is why I have today ordered the Cost of
Living Council to impose a ceiling on
prices of beef, pork, and lamb.' The ceil-
ing will remain in effect as long as it is
necessary to do the job.
Meat prices must not go higher. And
with the help of the housewife and the
farmer they can and they should go down.
This ceiling will help in our battle
against inflation. But it is not a permanent
solution. We must act on all fronts, and
here is where the Federal budget comes
in.
I have submitted to Congress for the
next fiscal year the largest budget in our
history-$268 billion.
The amount I have requested in this
budget for domestic programs in such
fields as health, housing, education, aid to
the elderly, the handicapped, the poor, is
twice as big as the amount I asked for for
these items 4 years ago. However, some
Members of Congress believe the budget
in these areas should be even higher.
Now, if I were to approve the increases
in my budget that have been proposed in
the Congress, it would mean a 15 percent
increase in your taxes, or an increase in
prices for every American. And that is
why I shall veto the bills which would
¹ A statement on the implementation of meat
price controls and other anti-inflation measures
by George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury
and Chairman of the Cost of Living Council,
was released by the White House on March 29,
1973. The statement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, p. 316).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the history of the economic
stabilization program and the transcript of a
news briefing on meat price controls by Secre-
tary Shultz and Secretary of Agriculture Earl L.
Butz.
break the Federal budget which I have
submitted. If I do not veto these bills,
increased prices or taxes would break the
family budget of millions of Americans—
including, possibly, your own.
This is not a battle between Congress
and the President. It is your battle. It is
your money, your prices, your taxes I am
trying to save.
Twenty-five years ago, as a freshman
Congressman, I first came into this office.
I met Harry Truman, who was then
President of the United States. I remem-
ber he had a sign on the desk. It read,
"The buck stops here." Now that meant,
of course, that a President can't pass the
buck to anyone else when a tough deci-
sion has to be made. It also means that
your buck stops here. If I do not act to
stop the spending increases which Con-
gress sends to this desk, you will have to
pay the bill.
Now I admit there is an honest differ-
ence of opinion on the matter of the Fed-
eral budget. If you are willing to pay the
higher taxes or prices that will result if we
increase Federal spending over my budget,
as some in Congress have proposed, you
should ask your Senators and your Con-
gressmen to override my vetoes, but if you
want to stop the rise in taxes and prices,
I have a suggestion to make. I remember
when I was a Congressman and a Senator,
I always seemed to hear from those who
wanted government to spend more; I sel-
dom heard from the people who have to
pay the bill-the taxpayer. And if your
Congressman or Senator has the courage
to vote against more government spend-
ing, so that you won't have to pay higher
prices or taxes, let him know that you sup-
port him.
Winning the battle to hold down the
Federal budget is essential if we are to
236
