Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 8 [251]
table on it, but it can be done. Because the
United States, as a great industrial nation,
the most advanced industrial nation of the
world, must be in a position and must
develop the capacity so that no other na-
tion in the world that might, for some
reason or another, take an unfriendly atti-
tude toward the United States, has us,
frankly, in a position where they can cut
off our oil or, basically more important,
cut off our energy.
I would like to say finally that Gov-
ernor Love in his brief time here has done
a superb job of trying to pull all of the
various agencies of the Government to-
gether. The conversation within the Cab-
inet Room was quite spirited. There were
disagreements in certain areas, and finally,
however, we did agree on the program
that I have outlined here today.
The Governor will be able to answer
technical questions about propane and
other things, where I am not, frankly,
quite knowledgeable.
So, Governor, the ladies and gentlemen
are yours.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:08 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House follow-
ing a meeting on energy policy with Cabinet
members and Administration officials.
On the same day, the White House released
a transcript of the news briefing on the meeting
by John A. Love, Director of the Energy Policy
Office, and Charles J. DiBona, Special Con-
sultant to the President on energy matters.
251 Statement About United States Participation in
International Trade Negotiation and Monetary
System Meetings. September 8, 1973
TODAY, at my request, an American
delegation of 20 persons will leave for
Tokyo for a major new round of multi-
lateral trade negotiations.
Later this month another delegation
from the United States will leave for Nai-
robi for the annual meeting of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and World
Bank where we hope to build on recent
progress toward fundamentally reforming
the world's monetary system.
The fact that the United States will be
represented by our highest-ranking eco-
nomic officials at these meetings is a dem-
onstration of our commitment to these
vital efforts to improve the international
economic system.
We have been working to reform that
system since August of 1971. It is clear
that some basic reforms are long overdue.
It is equally clear that while substantial
progress has been made, there is much
still to be done. That is why we particu-
larly welcome these meetings in Tokyo
and Nairobi.
The United States has four basic ob-
jectives in trade negotiations:
First, we desire to continue the 40-year
movement toward freer trade, to achieve
for Americans the benefits of expanding
world commerce.
Second, we seek to overcome problems
in the trade field which have become a
source of friction between the United
States and our major trading partners.
In this sense, the trade negotiation is one
part of a broader effort to build a stable
and lasting peace.
Third, we want to reform some of the
present trading guidelines and practices
which reduce trading opportunities for
U.S. producers, as well as those of other
755
