Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
reducing our differences. We will attempt
to find some common ground on which to
build a more constructive relationship.
"If we can accomplish these objectives,
we will have made a solid beginning."
Our discussions ranged broadly and
freely. Both sides set forth their views with
candor, neither evading nor downgrading
differences. We were able to fulfill the
expectations I had set forth earlier.
On February 27, 1972 we issued a Joint
Communique in Shanghai that reflected
this solid beginning. This document pur-
posely was very unorthodox. Communi-
ques often use general language, stress
agreements, gloss over disputes, and use
ambiguous formulas to bridge differences.
The Chinese leaders and we thought
that such an approach would be unworthy
of our unique encounter and our discus-
sions. To pretend that two nations, with
such a long separation and such funda-
mental differences, suddenly were in har-
mony would have been neither honest nor
credible. The use of general or compro-
mise language to paper over disputes
would have been subject to misinterpreta-
tion by others; and it ran the risk of sub-
sequent conflicting interpretations by the
two sides.
We decided instead to speak plainly.
We echoed the frankness of our private
talks in our public announcement. Each
side forthrightly stated its world and re-
gional views in the communique, and the
lines of our ideology and foreign policy
were clearly drawn.
Against this candid background, the
areas where we could find agreement
emerged with more authority. Our con-
versations made clear that in addition to
genuine differences there were also broad
principles of international relations to
which we both subscribed. There was as
well a joint determination to improve our
relations both by accommodating our dif-
ferences and developing concrete ties.
Accordingly, in the communique we
agreed that despite differences in social
systems and foreign policies, countries
should conduct their relations on the basis
of respect for sovereignty and territorial
integrity, non-aggression against other
states, non-interference in the internal
affairs of others, equality and mutual
benefit, and peaceful coexistence. Inter-
national disputes should be settled on this
basis without the use or threat of force.
We and the People's Republic of China
agreed to apply these principles to our
mutual relations.
With these international principles in
mind we stated that:
-progress toward the normalization
of relations between China and the
United States is in the interests of all coun-
tries;
"--both wish to reduce the danger of
international military conflict;
"-neither should seek hegemony in
the Asia-Pacific region and each is op-
posed to efforts by any other country or
group of countries to establish such he-
gemony; and
"neither is prepared to negotiate on
behalf of any third party or to enter into
agreements or understandings with the
other directed at other states.
"Both sides are of the view that it would
be against the interests of the peoples of
the world for any major country to col-
lude with another against other coun-
tries, or for major countries to divide up
the world into spheres of interest."
These principles were of major signif-
icance. They demonstrated that despite
our clear disagreements and our long
separation we shared some fundamental
361
