Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 27 [131]
about his wife. And what I say about this
State and its people and this man, this
Senator and his wife, is very closely
related.
The Senator and I were referring to the
fact, as we flew over the flood-stricken
areas of Mississippi today, that this is my
second visit to Mississippi since becoming
President, and the irony is that on both
occasions Mississippi was suffering from a
great natural disaster.
I met some of you Mississippians on the
occasion of Hurricane Camille when I
visited Gulfport very late at night,¹ and
the Governor, Governor Waller, presented
a painting to me in memory of that visit
and of the assistance that was rendered not
by me, but by our Government, which I
was able to approve on that occasion.
But as I went over this country today
and looked down at all those flooded fields,
I asked Senator Stennis, "What about the
farmers? Will they come back, or are they
going to desert that country because of
these floods that are the worst, I under-
stand, since 1927, and some say even the
worst in history?" And Senator Stennis
looked me in the eye and he said, "Look,
the folks in Mississippi always come back.
They don't desert the land."
I recalled then the spirit that I saw in
the eyes and faces of those on that night
in Gulfport, people there who had been
driven out of their homes. The winds had
come and destroyed them, and they were
living in trailers, or even worse, but I
recall that what impressed me about it
is that while others may have given up on
them, they haven't given up on them-
selves. And that is why the spirit of the
people of this State has always impressed
me and impresses me today.
¹ See 1969 volume, Item 358.
And so it is now-another disaster-
but that, too, will pass. And after that
natural disaster, the farmers will come
back and the businessmen will come back
and the workers will come back, and
Mississippi will continue to grow and to
prosper. It will continue to grow and
prosper because the people of this State
have the courage, they have what Senator
Stennis has suggested is the ability and
the will and the desire to tough it out,
no matter how difficult it is, and that
makes a strong people and a good people.
And we are very proud of you, and I say
that to you as I speak to you here in
Mississippi today.
And now, incidentally, a word about
how all of that has to do with Senator
Stennis and Mrs. Stennis. It is that char-
acter, that strength, that toughness of
moral fiber that Senator Stennis stands
for and that his wife stands for.
up
I was at the hospital, I think one of the
first outside visitors to go there after he
was able to receive visitors after the ter-
rible accident occurred in Washington a
few months ago. And I remember, Mrs.
Stennis was there and their son was there,
the doctor, and the Senator was sitting
in bed. I talked to them a bit and tried
to give them some encouragement. I told
him then, and I told her, and I told him
on several occasions thereafter when I
called him about once a week to see how
he was doing, I said, "Senator, what
counts even more than the doctor, even
more than medicine, is you, your will, your
spirit, how you feel." And he said, “I am
going to make it."
He has made it, and he is back, and
thank God he is.
And because this strong man from
Mississippi and this strong, wonderful
wife of his, who was always by his side,
321
