[261] Sept. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
trained for weeks for your arrival were
gone, and I thought of the fact that on
your previously scheduled visit that I
contracted pneumonia, and you were un-
able to come at that time, and the rain
was coming down. And I reluctantly gave
the order, because we could not tell how
long the rain would last, that we would
move inside.
But now as you arrive at 10:30 today,
the skies have cleared, and so your
country, which has had the ravages of
floods you now see clear skies, and I
think these clear skies indicate that for
the time ahead, Pakistan and the United
States can look forward to a better time,
a time of peace and a time of progress.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Prime Minister Bhutto was given a formal
welcome with military honors at the North
Portico. Then, because of inclement weather,
the President and the Prime Minister proceeded
to the East Room for the exchange of remarks.
The Prime Minister responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
friends:
Mr. President, your kind and generous words
of welcome are heartwarming, and I am over-
whelmed by the sentiment you have expressed.
As you have said, I have come to these shores
before as a student and on many occasions as a
representative of my country. I have seen the
magnificent evolution of the relations between
your great country and my country; vast oceans
and continents separate our two peoples, and
yet there is an ease of communication and of
understanding.
Our relations are not burdened or encum-
bered by modern postulations and sermoniza-
tions to each other. We share a host of common
affinities despite the diversities and the
distances that separate us.
I can assure you, Mr. President, that the
people of Pakistan warmly cherish this relation-
ship with your country and your people.
We are aware of the wholesome contribution
that your country and your Government have
made to the cause of peace and to the normali-
zation of relations in the subcontinent. We
value your contribution, and as we admire the
search you are making for a new international
structure based on the concept of lasting peace
which has eluded us so far, we feel confident
that with the imagination you have demon-
strated and the tenacity you have shown to
evolve this structure of peace, that your efforts
will succeed. And to whatever extent Pakistan
can travel with you on this magnificent search
for a lasting peace, we will wholeheartedly offer
that cooperation to the extent that our limited
goal traverses with your worldwide responsibil
ities.
The memories of the past are many, but I
can assure you that these memories do not in
any way displace or dispel the newness of this
occasion when I come here to represent my
country as its Prime Minister.
I am looking forward to our discussions. We
know that you are well-acquainted with our
problems. At one time it was said that in the
recent past your Administration tilted towards
Pakistan. That, Mr. President, was a tilt for
justice and a tilt for equity, which is charac-
teristic of your distinguished career as a states-
man and a builder of peace.
I am sorry that the ceremonies were some-
what marred by the rains, but nothing can mar
the eternal friendship and warmth between
our two peoples, and that is more important.
It has augured well by the sudden reappear-
ance of the blue skies, and I am glad that the
blue skies are smiling at us.
Thank you.
796
