[106] Apr. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to convey to the American people and
particularly to families bereaved by the
loss of loved ones, the deep and abiding
appreciation of the people of South Viet-
nam for the sacrifices made on their behalf
and the assistance given to the Republic of
Vietnam in its long struggle to maintain
its freedom and preserve its right of self-
determination.
Prior to the departure of President
Thieu for Washington to continue his offi-
cial visit to the United States, both Presi-
dents agreed that through the harsh
experience of a tragic war and the sacri-
fices of their two peoples a close and
constructive relationship between the
American and the South Vietnamese peo-
ple has been developed and strengthened.
They affirmed their full confidence that
this association would be preserved as the
foundation of an honorable and lasting
peace in Southeast Asia.
President Thieu expressed his gratitude
for the warm hospitality extended to him
and his party by President Nixon.
NOTE: The text of the joint statement was re-
leased at San Clemente, Calif.
107 Statement About Senate Action Sustaining the
Vocational Rehabilitation Bill Veto. April 3, 1973
THE ACTION of the Senate in voting to
sustain my veto of the first budget-break-
ing spending bill of 1973 is a resounding
victory for the American taxpayer.
If passed into law, the excessive and
unwise Rehabilitation Act of 1972 which
the Senate has now helped defeat would
have opened the dikes to a flood of addi-
tional overspending bills. These bills could
have exceeded our budgets by as much as
$50 billion between now and 1975. Amer-
ca's consumers, wage earners, and tax-
payers would be forced to foot the bill for
that spending spree, in the form of a heavy
tax increase or a new surge of inflation.
But now, because enough Senators had
enough courage to stand up against the
big spenders in defense of the average
American's pocketbook, the tide in this
battle of the budget is running in the
people's favor.
I hope that millions of Americans will
express their thanks and their support
to those Senators and Congressmen who
are holding the line against runaway
spending. There will be other tough de-
cisions to make before this battle is won,
and as we face each test, I look forward
to continued cooperation with this out-
standing group of responsible legislators
who voted to sustain my veto.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
108 Veto of the Rural Water and Sewer Grant
Program Bill. April 5, 1973
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today without my ap-
proval H.R. 3298, an act to restore the
rural water and sewer grant program
which was terminated earlier this year.
My recent budget proposals to the
254
