Richard Nixon, 1973
June 17 [176]
of America and the children of the world
to grow up in peace.
We have had four wars in this century.
Every generation has had a war, and now
it is time that America, as the leader of
the free world, help develop the policies
that not only have ended one war but
which will reduce the possibility of con-
flict between the great powers as far as
future wars are concerned.
This will require, on our part, strength,
because a strong America is a guarantee
of peace, and a weak America would risk
the peace.
peace. It requires, on our part, respect
for America, and it requires on our part
something that we best describe by the
word "character." Whether America, at
this critical time in the world's history,
carrying the burdens that we do, whether
we continue to exert world leadership, or
whether we turn away from those respon-
sibilities and leave a vacuum which others
might be very willing to fill. I believe we
have that character. You saw it today in
Mr. Newell.2 Six years in a prison camp.
Some were there 7 years, some 8, some 4;
yet they came back to America, almost all
of them, heads high, saluting the flag,
loving this country.
I say thank God that America has
produced such men, and with that kind
of character we will provide the leader-
ship that the world needs, which will
keep freedom for America and allow our
children and grandchildren to grow up in
peace.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. at
the site of the new research center and Pekin
Public Library. An advance text of his remarks
was released on the same day.
Following the ceremonies, the President and
Mrs. Nixon visited Mrs. Lillie Carver, 97-year-
old mother of Mrs. Everett McKinley Dirksen,
at her home in Pekin, Ill.
2 S. Sgt. Stanley A. Newell, USA, of Pekin,
had participated earlier in the cornerstone un-
veiling ceremonies.
176 Telephone Conversation With the Commander of the
Skylab 1 Crew. June 17, 1973
THE PRESIDENT. Hello.
CAPT. CHARLES "PETE" CONRAD, JR.,
USN. Hello, sir. How are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Is this Pete
Conrad?
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Yes, sir. All of us are
listening.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to talk to you
again, and Commander Kerwin and
Commander Weitz are there with you,
right?
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I just want you
to know that everybody here has been
following what you have been doing, and
I guess the way I could summarize this
project is that it proves that man still
matters. With all the technical machines,
and so forth, that you had to work with,
it proved that when there were difficulties,
that the ingenuity of men in space is what
really mattered, and you have made us
all very proud with the way you handled
some difficult problems in this project.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. You will be return-
ing on the 22d, I understand.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Yes, sir. We are
counting every day. That is, I think, Day
173. We are working on Day 168.
593
