[199] July 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
after paying for taxes and adjusting for
inflation-continued to rise, reaching a
record high.
During this same period, while Ameri-
ca's rate of inflation was lower than other
major industrial nations, it is also clear
that the rate was far higher than it should
have been. There was an unexpectedly
rapid increase in prices during the quar-
ter, primarily in agricultural products.
The acceleration of price increases dur-
ing the quarter led, in part, to my actions
on June 13 to impose a price freeze for a
maximum of 60 days. This freeze will be
followed by Phase IV, a system of con-
trols which will be designed to curb our
recent bout of inflation while also pre-
serving the gains we have made in other
sectors of our economy. My ultimate
goal-a goal I believe we can and must
meet--is to return this country to a strong
and free market system.
The White House,
July 11, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, covering the period Janu-
ary 11 through March 31, 1973, is entitled
"Economic Stabilization Program Quarterly
Report" (Government Printing Office, 90 pp.).
200 Statement About Signing a Bill Increasing Social
Security Benefits. July 11, 1973
SINCE THIS Administration took office,
social security benefits have increased by
more than 50 percent, and several major
reforms have been made in the Social
Security System.
I am pleased to have signed legislation
which further contributes to these im-
provements. It is H.R. 7445, a bill which
amends the social security and Federal
income maintenance programs while also
extending the Renegotiation Act of 1951
for one year.
The critical feature of this bill for al-
most 30 million Americans is an increase
in social security benefits of more than 5
percent next year in order to meet the
rising costs of living.
I have long held that social security
cannot contribute to genuine financial
security until it provides an automatic
means of compensating for cost-of-living
increases. Last year, when social security
increases of some 20 percent were enacted,
the Congress approved my proposal pro-
viding for an escalator in benefits so that
recipients will automatically be protected
against inflation.
The first automatic adjustments under
this new system, however, will not occur
until January 1975. In the interim, elderly
Americans on fixed incomes need further
protection against rising costs. In enacting
H.R. 7445 into law, we are moving to fill
in that gap, as this bill provides an increase
in benefits during the last half of 1974-
A second amendment in H.R. 7445 is
designed to reduce the disincentives which
now face many elderly people who want
to work. This provision of the bill increases
the amount of money which an individual
can earn and still qualify for full social
security benefits. This sum is raised from
$2,100 a year to $2,400 a year.
Another change is in the income main-
tenance laws. On next January 1, my
Administration will begin the new Sup-
plemental Security Income (SSI) pro-
gram, a program of Federal income
642
