[289] Oct. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
defense capabilities of the United States
in that area.
But putting aside for the moment the
problem in the Middle East and looking
at the United States itself, let us recognize
something we can be very grateful for
today. For the first time in 12 years the
United States, at the time these awards
are being made, is at peace with every
nation in the world, and that is symbol-
ized, it seems to me, and brought home
by the fact that the 11 award winners are
concentrated in the area of peaceful en-
terprise.
That is what you want, that is what
young Americans want. We are a peaceful
people, and we would like to concentrate
our pursuits in the areas of peace, rather
than in those areas that happen to deal
with war.
In that connection, if I could again re-
late the problems that we presently have
and face in the Mideast to the future in-
sofar as government support of research is
concerned: The flare-up in the Middle
East reminds us again of how dependent
the United States and, even more so, of
course, much more so, Western Europe
and Japan are on the oil supplies of the
Mideast.
And what is happening in the Mideast
today reminds us again of a fundamen-
tal fact that we must face up to in the
years ahead. The United States, as a great
industrial power, cannot continue to be
dependent upon an uncertain source for
energy which could be cut off at any time.
That is why one of the major goals of this
Nation must be to become self-sufficient in
energy.
Now, to say that is easy; to accomplish
it is difficult. But this opens, of course, a
great new peaceful challenge to the men
and women of science. While we are short
on oil reserves, as you know, the United
States has almost half the known coal re-
serves in the world. But developing coal in
a way that it can be a clean fuel, develop-
ing it in a way that excavating it will not
despoil the geography or the environment
too much—this is a great task for science
and requires a much greater contribution
in the field of research than we presently
have been making, than we have made in
the past, or are presently making.
A second area so well known to the
scientific community is in the area of nu-
clear power. And here the peaceful use
of nuclear power, the fast breeder reactor,
the possibility of even leapfrogging that
and going to fusion for purposes of crea-
tion of peaceful power at a cost that will
be competitive-this is another area which
could help us toward becoming self-suffi-
cient in energy, which, as a nation, we
must adopt as a goal.
I turn then to a subject of concern to all
of us, particularly to young Americans,
the subject of the ecology, the environ-
ment. And we often hear that energy and
all that is required to produce it is di-
rectly contradictory toward our goal of a
clean environment. And the answer is
that must not be so, and anyone in the
scientific community would agree, it is not
necessarily so.
We face, for example, it is said, the pos-
sibility of a fuel shortage, particularly in
the northeastern part of the United States
this winter. We believe that we can find a
way to meet that problem. But those who
particularly and exclusively, should I say,
concentrate on the need for clean air, a
better environment, would recognize the
truth that if one freezes to death, it doesn't
make any difference whether the air is
clean or dirty.
And so, which comes first? The energy
858
