Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 15 [44]
ica's Atlantic and Pacific gateways, New
York and San Francisco.
On the organizational front, the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969
has reformed programs and decision-mak-
ing processes in our Federal agencies and
has given citizens a greater opportunity
to contribute as decisions are made. In
1970 I appointed the first Council on En-
vironmental Quality—a group which has
provided active leadership in environmen-
tal policies. In the same year, I estab-
lished the Environmental Protection
Agency and the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration to provide
more coordinated and vigorous environ-
mental management. Our natural re-
source programs still need to be consoli-
dated, however, and I will again
submit legislation to the Congress to meet
this need.
The results of these efforts are tangible
and measurable. Day by day, our air is
getting cleaner; in virtually every one of
our major cities the levels of air pollu-
tion are declining. Month by month, our
water pollution problems are also being
conquered, our noise and pesticide prob-
lems are coming under control, our park-
lands and protected wilderness areas are
increasing.
Year by year, our commitment of pub-
lic funds for environmental programs con-
tinues to grow; it has increased four-fold
in the last four years. In the area of water
quality alone, it has grown fifteen-fold.
In fact, we are now buying new facilities
nearly as fast as the construction in-
dustry can build them. Spending still
more money would not buy us more pol-
lution control facilities but only more ex-
pensive ones.
In addition to what Government is do-
ing in the battle against pollution, our
private industries are assuming a steadily
growing share of responsibility in this
field. Last year industrial spending for
pollution control jumped by 50 percent,
and this year it could reach as much as
$5 billion.
All nations, regardless of their economic
systems, share to some extent in the en-
vironmental problem-but with vigorous
United States leadership, joint efforts to
solve this global problem are showing re-
sults. The United Nations has adopted the
American proposal for a special U.N.
environmental fund to coordinate and
support international environmental pro-
grams.
Some 92 nations have concluded an
international convention to control the
ocean dumping of wastes. An agreement is
now being forged in the Intergovernmen-
tal Maritime Consultative Organization to
end the intentional discharge of oil from
ships into the ocean. This objective, first
recommended by my Administration, was
adopted by the NATO Committee on the
Challenges of Modern Society.
Representatives of almost 70 countries
are meeting in Washington this week at
our initiative to draft a treaty to protect
endangered species of plant and animal
wildlife. The U.S.-USSR environmen-
tal cooperation agreement which I signed
in Moscow last year makes two of the
world's greatest industrial powers allies
against pollution. Another agreement
which we concluded last year with Can-
ada will help to clean up the Great Lakes.
Domestically, we can also be proud of
the steady progress being made in improv-
ing the quality of life in rural and agri-
cultural America. We are beginning to
break away from the old, rigid system of
controls which eroded the farmer's free-
dom through Government intrusion in the
31-870 - 75 - 10
95
