[284] Oct. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
284 Statement on the Death of James S. Copley.
October 6, 1973
THE untimely death of James S. Copley
takes from us a noble American whose
distinguished career in journalism and
public affairs placed him in the direct line
of descent from this country's great
printer-patriots of the past-from Zenger
to Pulitzer. His contribution to interna-
tional peace and understanding was felt
far beyond our Nation's borders through
his selfless work with newspapers of other
countries.
The same courage and heart which
characterize Jim Copley's family of news-
papers, serving communities from the Illi-
nois prairie to the California coast, shone
through in his long, brave fight against
illness over the final years of his life. And
it is a measure of the man's quiet humani-
tarianism that the room where he finally
lost that fight was part of a hospital and
clinic that his generosity had built.
Jim Copley has been a close friend and
adviser to me for more than a quarter
century. Thus it is with a special sadness
that Mrs. Nixon and I join his family,
friends, and countless admirers in mourn-
ing his death. But we are also grateful to-
day that the message of liberty he most
wanted to spread in this country and
throughout the Americas will continue
to be heard through his newspapers' "ring
of truth."
NOTE: Mr. Copley, 57, died in San Diego, Calif.
He was publisher of the San Diego Union and
Evening Tribune and was chairman of the
board of Copley Press Inc, a newspaper chain
comprising 15 daily and 32 weekly publications.
The statement was issued at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
285 Remarks About United States Diplomatic Actions
Following the Outbreak of Fighting in the Middle East.
October 8, 1973
WE HAVE nothing to add to the official
pronouncements that have been made--
or announcements, I should say--with re-
gard to the Mideast situation.
Last night, I had a rather long talk with
Dr. Kissinger, shortly before midnight,
getting the late reports. This morning, I
was here around 7:30 or so and studied all
of the reports, both with regard to the
military situation and the reaction to our
diplomatic initiative.
Dr. Kissinger and I have been meeting
for a good part of the morning here on
particularly that diplomatic initiative, and
having in mind the importance of getting
strong support for the position that the
United States will take.
It is very easy to think of this particular
kind of a crisis simply in terms of a grand-
stand play, where the United States will
go in and unilaterally make a move which
then fails. I can assure you that Dr. Kis-
singer and his colleagues have been very
busy and that we are developing support
for a position which we hope and believe
will be effective in stopping the fighting.
Doctor, would you like to add a word
to that?
SECRETARY KISSINGER. No, I think you
have summed up the situation, Mr. Presi-
848
