Richard Nixon, 1973
[317]
Oct. 31
317 Special Message to the Congress Requesting Funds for
the International Development Association and the
Asian Development Bank.
To the Congress of the United States:
As their role in conveying financial as-
sistance to developing countries has stead-
ily enlarged in recent years, multilateral
lending institutions have become vital to
our hopes for constructing a new interna-
tional economic order.
One of the most important of these in-
stitutions is the International Develop-
ment Association, a subsidiary of the
World Bank that provides long-term loans
at low interest rates to the world's poorest
nations. During the 13 years of its opera-
tion, IDA has provided over $6.1 billion
of development credits to nearly 70 of the
least developed countries of the world.
Two dozen countries have contributed
funds for this effort.
By next June, however, the Interna-
tional Development Association will be
out of funds unless it is replenished. As a
result of an understanding reached in re-
cent international negotiations, I am to-
day proposing to the Congress that the
United States join with other major in-
dustrialized nations in pledging significant
new funds to this organization. Specifi-
cally, I am requesting that the Congress
authorize for future appropriation the
sum of $1.5 billion for the fourth replen-
ishment of IDA. Initial payments would
be made in fiscal year 1976 and the full
amount would be paid out over a period
of years.
I am also requesting that the Congress
authorize an additional $50 million for
the Special Funds of the Asian Develop-
ment Bank. The bank is one of the major
October 31, 1973
regional banks in the world that comple-
ments the work of the International De-
velopment Association and the World
Bank.
Legislation for both of these authorities
is being submitted to the Congress today
by the Secretary of the Treasury.
STRENGTHENING THE INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC SYSTEM
Just over a year ago, in September 1972
at the annual meeting in Washington of
the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank, I stressed the urgent need to
build a secure structure of peace, not only
in the political realm but in the economic
realm as well. I stated then that the time
had come for action across the entire
front of international economic problems,
and I emphasized that recurring mone-
tary crises, incorrect alignments, distorted
trading arrangements, and great dispari-
ties in development not only injured our
economies, but also created political ten-
sions that subvert the cause of peace. I
urged that all nations come together to
deal promptly with these fundamental
problems.
I am happy to be able to report that
since that 1972 meeting, we have made
encouraging progress toward updating
and revising the basic rules for the con-
duct of international financial and trade
affairs that have guided us since the end
of World War II. Monetary reform ne-
gotiations, begun last year, are now well
advanced toward forging a new and
gog
