Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 25 [339]
agreement within the Administration as
to what steps will be taken. We will still
work on it over the weekend, and the
decisions will be announced on Monday
(Sunday) night for the first time pub-
licly, because Governor Love's briefing
will be in the afternoon at probably 3 or
4 o'clock, hold for release a.m.'s and 7
o'clock.
HELEN THOMAS [United Press Inter-
national]. Will it be on television?
339
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We will make the
announcement on television from here,
and UPI can cover if they like.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House where he
was meeting with Director Love and Melvin R.
Laird, Counsellor to the President for Domes-
tic Affairs.
The remarks took place during a portion of
the meeting when reporters and photographers
were invited to be present.
Address to the Nation About National Energy Policy.
November 25, 1973
Good evening:
Three weeks ago, I spoke to you about
the national energy crisis and our policy
for meeting it. Tonight I want to talk with
you again to report on our progress and
to announce further steps we must take to
carry out our energy policy.
When I spoke to you earlier, I indi-
cated that the sudden cutoff of oil from
the Middle East had turned the serious
energy shortages we expected this winter
into a major energy crisis. That crisis
is now being felt around the world, as
other industrialized nations have also suf-
fered from cutbacks in oil from the Mid-
dle East.
Shortages in Europe, for example, are
far more critical than they are in the
United States. Already seven European
nations have imposed a ban on Sunday
driving. Fortunately, the United States is
not as dependent upon Middle Eastern oil
as many other nations. We will not have
a ban on Sunday driving, but as you will
hear later, we are going to try to limit it.
Nevertheless, we anticipate that our short-
ages could run as high as 17 percent. This
means that we must immediately take
strong, effective countermeasures.
In order to minimize disruptions in our
economy, I asked on November 7 that all
Americans adopt certain energy conser-
vation measures to help meet the chal-
lenge of reduced energy supplies. These
steps include reductions in home heating,
reductions in driving speeds, elimination
of unnecessary lighting. And the Ameri-
can people, all of you, you have responded
to this challenge with that spirit of sac-
rifice which has made this such a great
nation.
The Congress has also been moving
forward on the energy front. The Alaska
pipeline bill has been passed. I signed it
into law 9 days ago, right here at this
desk. The Congress has passed a fuel allo-
cation bill which I will sign into law on
Tuesday.ยน An additional emergency bill
providing special authority to deal with
this problem has now passed the Senate.
ยน On Tuesday, November 27, 1973, the Presi-
dent signed S. 1570, the Emergency Petroleum
Allocation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-159
(87 Stat. 627).
973
