[190] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
While the precise means of conserving
energy will be left to the discretion of
Cabinet and agency heads, I am directing
that conservation efforts include the fol-
lowing measures:
-Reduction in the level of air-condi-
tioning of all Federal office buildings
throughout the summer.
-Reduction in the number of official
trips taken by Federal employees.
-Purchase or leasing of automobiles
and other vehicles which provide good
gasoline mileage.
Each department and agency is ex-
pected to review all of its activities to
determine how its own demands might be
reduced. The Department of Defense, the
largest single consumer of energy within
the executive branch, has already ex-
amined its activities and has taken steps
to reduce its energy demands by 10 per-
cent over last year-steps which will in
no way jeopardize our military prepared-
ness.
CONSERVATION IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
I am also directing all departments and
agencies to work closely with Secretary
Morton and the Office of Energy Con-
servation in the development of long-term
energy conservation plans and recom-
mendations for both the private and the
public sector.
At my request, the Secretary of the
Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, and
Governor Love are to meet with repre-
sentatives of American industry to discuss
ways of cutting back on unnecessary con-
sumption of energy and to urge their
active participation in the conservation
effort.
Further, I have directed the Secretary
of Transportation to work with the Na-
tion's airlines, the Civil Aeronautics
Board, and the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration to reduce flight speeds and, where
possible, the frequency of commercial air-
line flights. This effort is now underway.
By effecting only a small reduction in
speeds and flights, it is possible to achieve
significant reductions in energy consump-
tion.
PLACING THE CHALLENGE IN
PERSPECTIVE
As these measures cover a broad range
of activities in the public and private sec-
tors, I want to put both the problem and
the proposed conservation measures into
perspective. We all need to understand
the dimensions of the challenge, as well as
the significance of the role every single
American has to play in meeting it.
The Department of the Interior esti-
mates that under the conditions of current
usage, our available supply of gasoline
this summer could fall short of demand by
1 or 2 percent and possibly as much as 5
percent should the most adverse condi-
tions prevail. To overcome this potential
shortage, and to reduce pressure on sup-
plies of other energy resources, I am sug-
gesting that a reasonable and attainable
national goal is to reduce anticipated
energy use by individual consumers by 5
percent.
We can achieve this goal by making
very small alterations in our present liv-
ing habits, for steps such as those we are
taking at the Federal level can be taken
with equal effectiveness by private in-
dividuals. We need not sacrifice any activ-
ities vital to our economy or to our well-
being as a people.
Raising the thermostat of an air-condi-
tioner by just 4 degrees, for instance, will
628
