Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 1 [225]
their Governments to work for as wide.
agreement as possible on the principles of
monetary reform at the annual meeting
of the International Monetary Fund in
Nairobi later in that month. In both of
these undertakings, they pledged their
cooperative efforts to assure early and
constructive results in concert with other
countries of the world.
II. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent agreed to continue to coordinate ef-
forts to ensure a stable supply of energy
resources to meet the rapidly growing re-
quirements of their peoples. In this con-
nection, they expressed their common
intention to pursue just and harmonious
relationships with the oil producing states;
to examine the possibility of developing
within the framework of the OECD, an
arrangement on sharing oil in times of
emergency; and greatly to expand the
scope of cooperation for exploring and
exploiting energy resources and for re-
search and development of new energy
sources.
12. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent affirmed the importance of close co-
operation between the two Governments
in securing a stable supply of enriched
uranium, including cooperation in the
necessary research and development. They
agreed that the two Governments should
exert their best efforts for the satisfactory
realization of a Japan-US joint venture
to that end. In this connection, the Presi-
dent announced that the United States
Government had authorized a group of
American companies to enter into a con-
tract with a private Japanese party to con-
duct a joint study of the economic, legal,
and technical factors involved in the con-
struction of a uranium enrichment plant
in the United States in which Japan might
participate.
13. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent recognized that expanded programs
for improved communication and under-
standing are vital to strengthening the
relationship between the two countries.
Noting the warm reception in the United
States to the activities of the Japan Foun-
dation, the Prime Minister announced
that the Government of Japan will grant,
through the Foundation, funds in the
amount of $10 million to several Ameri-
can universities for institutional support
of Japanese studies, including the endow-
ment of chairs for this purpose. The Presi-
dent stated his intention to expand sup-
port for those United States cultural and
educational projects which had been so
productive in the past, and to ask the
Congress in the near future to appropriate
the funds remaining in the GARIOA
[Government Assistance and Relief in Oc-
cupied Areas] account to strengthen
Japan-US cultural and educational ex-
changes.
14. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent expressed satisfaction with the grow-
ing cooperation between Japan and the
United States in the field of environmen-
tal protection. They commended the co-
operative programs now in progress which
would enable the two countries to cope
more effectively with air and water pollu-
tion and other environmental problems,
including those connected with sewage
disposal and photochemical air pollution.
They confirmed that such cooperative pro-
grams would be instrumental in protect-
ing the environment and devising anti-
pollution measures in both countries.
15. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted with satisfaction the achieve-
ments of the medical, scientific and tech-
nological cooperative programs developed
during the last decade between the two
679
