[227] Aug. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
resents a major improvement over the bill
I vetoed last year. The most objectionable
features of the previous bill have been
removed. No longer are arbitrary and
wasteful floors placed upon staffing and
patient loads in VA hospitals. No longer
is VA hospitalization required for new
classes of beneficiaries who can and should
be more appropriately cared for outside
VA hospitals.
S. 59 addresses the basic objectives
sought by the Congress and the Adminis-
tration to provide the best medical care
possible for veterans-and accomplishes
this goal in a much more effective way
than the bill I disapproved. Most notably,
this bill:
-provides a more flexible approach to
veterans medical care by broadening
the use of outpatient care;
-permits veterans with
with service-
connected disabilities requiring nurs
ing home care to get such care
directly, without having to enter a
VA hospital;
-holds down costs with the result that
this bill will require 41 percent less
in Federal outlays over the next 5
years than the vetoed bill.
The long record of outstanding service
provided by our VA hospitals is an im-
pressive one. This year more than one
million patients will be cared for in VA
hospitals, the highest number in history.
We intend to maintain the high standards
which have always characterized such
care.
Early in my first term, I made a public
commitment to provide "quality medical
care to every eligible veteran." The record
shows that we are making genuine prog-
ress toward that goal. My requests for
veterans medical appropriations during
the present year total $2.7 billion, more
than $1 billion above the 1969 figure of
$1.5 billion. The total number of doctors
in the VA system has risen from 5,085 in
1968 to 5.374 in 1973, while the total
number of medical staff personnel has in-
creased from approximately 130,000 in
1970 to some 153,000 today.
To continue this progress, I have asked
the Veterans Administrator to take im-
mediate steps to carry out the provisions
of S. 59, making necessary arrangements
with the Secretary of Defense concerning
dependents care and seeing to it that bal-
anced care is available to veterans in all
VA regions.
Enactment of S. 59 demonstrates that
it is possible to develop sound legislation,
mutually agreeable to both the Congres-
sional and executive branches, without
violating our goals for a tight Federal
budget. I hope that the constructive
results represented by this bill will be re-
peated with regard to other domestic legis-
lation now pending.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 59 is Public Law 93-82
(87 Stat. 179).
228 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Changes
in the Nation's Financial System. August 3, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Our country depends on a strong, effi-
cient and flexible financial system to pro-
mote sound economic growth, including
the provision of adequate funds for hous-
ing. Such a system is one which allows
financial institutions to adapt to the
changing needs of borrowers and lenders,
682
