Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 12 [118]
crease of 15 percent in costs to State
pooled unemployment insurance funds,
which would, in turn, affect the costs of
employers whose taxes support our un-
employment compensation programs. To
put this increase in perspective, however,
we should note that unemployment in-
surance is one of the least expensive of all
fringe benefits related to employment—
accounting for less than a penny in each
payroll dollar. Considering the enormous
importance of this protection to unem-
ployed workers and to economic stability
in general, the relatively small cost of
keeping it adequate and up to date is a
very sound investment.
When the new Federal benefit stand-
ard goes into effect, our unemployment
insurance system would begin delivering
on its promise to working Americans in a
way it has never delivered before. The
special programs which in the past have
substituted for inadequate State unem-
ployment benefit payments-such as the
special allowances provided under the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 for work-
ers who lose their jobs because of foreign
imports would become unnecessary as
unemployment benefits are raised to fairer
levels.
Upon passage of the unemployment in-
surance reforms proposed today and of
the trade proposals which I outlined to
the Congress earlier this week, trade ad-
justment assistance would be gradually
phased out and replaced with a tem-
porary program of Federal supplements
to bring up to an adequate level the State
unemployment benefits for workers dis-
placed by import trade. When State un-
employment payments come up to the
half-pay minimum I am seeking, the Fed-
eral supplement payments would be dis-
continued, since all workers would then
be eligible under the liberalized State
laws for benefits that are reasonably ade-
quate in amount. Some would even be
eligible for larger weekly benefits than
they can now receive under the Trade
Expansion Act adjustment assistance pro-
gram.
The Job Security Assistance Act would
thus make unemployment insurance pro-
tection more equitable for everyone, by
assisting all workers evenhandedly regard-
less of the reason for their loss of job. Un-
employment is just as costly to an individ-
ual and his family whether it results
from trade, environmental constraints,
fluctuations in government procurement,
declines in business activity, or any other
cause. The effect of my proposals would
be to remove arbitrary distinctions among
such causes in protecting workers who are
involuntarily out of work.
UNEMPLOYMENT PROTECTION FOR THE
FARMWORKER
Agriculture is America's oldest and
largest industry—and increasingly it truly
is an industry, not just an individual en-
terprise. A growing percentage of the
people engaged in farming no longer are
their own bosses but work as someone
else's employees. Most of these employees
earn relatively low wages, have only pre-
carious job security, and have no termina-
tion pay coming if they are laid off. Many
are members of disadvantaged minority
groups.
For all of these reasons, I consider it of
urgent importance that we act at once to
extend unemployment insurance coverage
to as many agricultural employees as can
feasibly be accommodated in the system.
Farmworkers were originally denied
unemployment insurance protection on
283
