[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
MEETING THE ENERGY CHALLENGE
I have previously stated, and wish to
restate in the most emphatic terms, that
the gap between America's projected
short-term energy needs and our available
domestic energy supplies is widening at a
rate which demands our immediate atten-
tion.
I am taking all appropriate measures
within my authority to deal with this prob-
lem, seeking to increase our supplies and
moderate our demands. Looking to the
future, I have announced plans for a large
scale increase in our research and develop-
ment effort, and I have asked my top
energy advisor, Governor John Love, to
meet with State officials to seek tempo-
rary modifications of air quality standards.
Such modifications would help to mini-
mize fuel shortages this winter. In addi-
tion, I will soon be meeting with members
of the Atomic Energy Commission to de-
termine whether we can bring nuclear
power plants on line more quickly. But
the energy problem requires more than
Presidential action; it also requires action
by the Congress.
It is absolutely essential that the Con-
gress not wait for the stimulation of energy
shortage to provide the legislation nec-
essary to meet our needs. Already we have
seen some regional inconveniences this
summer with respect to gasoline and this
winter we may experience a similar prob-
lem with regard to heating fuels.
Over the long term, the prospects for
adequate energy for the United States are
excellent. We have the resources and the
technology to meet our growing needs.
But to meet those long-term needs and to
avoid severe problems over the short term,
we must launch a concentrated effort
which mobilizes the Government, Ameri-
can industry and the American people.
I have recently called for passage of
seven major energy bills now before the
Congress. Not all of those can be acted
upon with equal speed, but four of these
bills are of the highest urgency and must
be acted upon before the end of this year.
These four would provide for the con-
struction of the Alaskan pipeline, con-
struction of deepwater ports, deregulation
of natural gas and establishment of new
standards for surface mining. All four of
these bills are addressed to both our short-
term and long-term needs.
ALASKAN PIPELINE
Our first legislative goal-and one that
should be achieved this month-is the
enactment of an Alaskan pipeline bill.
Construction of the pipeline would pro-
vide us with up to 2 million barrels of oil
per day over which we would have full
control and would simultaneously reduce
by more than $3 billion per year our
need for oil imports. I have proposed legis-
lation to avoid any further delay in the
construction of the Alaskan pipeline and I
am gratified that both Houses of the Con-
gress have already passed variations of this
proposal. I urge the earliest possible atten-
tion to these bills by the House-Senate
Conference Committee, so that pipeline
construction can begin.
DEEPWATER PORTS
Until domestic resources are in full
production and technological progress has
reached a point where sufficient energy
sources are within reach, we will have to
rely upon imports of foreign oil. At the
768
