[213] July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
am also transmitting the report of the
Department of State with respect to the
Convention.
The Convention is designed to meet
the present need to facilitate international
transport while, at the same time, pro-
viding the customs control arrangements
necessary for such transport. The Con-
vention provides for new, uniform con-
trol and documentation procedures which
carriers of Governments party to the
Convention would be able to use at their
option.
The Convention would help open the
way for United States exporters and car-
riers to benefit in Western Europe and
other markets of the world from the
simplified and uniform procedures for
which it provides.
I recommend that the Convention be
given early and favorable consideration by
the Senate.
The White House,
July 23, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Execu-
tive P (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
214 Statement on the Death of Edward V. Rickenbacker.
July 23, 1973
"CAPTAIN EDDIE" Rickenbacker was
an American original-a celebrated rac-
ing car driver in the early years of the
20th century, the leading American
fighter pilot in World War I, a pioneer
of commercial aviation, and a generous,
patriotic citizen in both war and peace.
Mrs. Nixon and I offer our condolences
to Mrs. Rickenbacker on the passing of
this great American, and our assurance
that the life he lived and the example
he set will long be cherished by his fellow
citizens.
NOTE: Mr. Rickenbacker, 82, died in Zurich,
Switzerland.
He was with Eastern Air Lines, Inc., for 28
years, serving variously as general manager,
director, president, and chairman of the board
until his retirement in 1963.
215 Remarks of Welcome to His Imperial Majesty,
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shahanshah of Iran.
July 24, 1973
Your Imperial Majesty:
It is a very great honor and a special
honor for me to welcome you again to our
Nation's Capital and, at the same time, to
welcome Her Imperial Majesty, the Em-
press, and all the members of your official
party from Iran.
I say a very special honor for several
reasons, first because our friendship goes
back over a period of 20 years when we
first met in Tehran, when I was Vice
President of the United States and when
you then were a very young Emperor.
Through those 20 years, both during
the periods that I have served in office
and during the periods that I have been
a private citizen, I have been honored
and I have been greatly assisted by re-
ceiving the benefit of your counsel on
world matters.
660
