[372] Dec. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
372 Statement on Signing the Comprehensive Employment.
and Training Act of 1973.
I AM signing into law today the Compre-
hensive Employment and Training Act of
1973. I do so with great pleasure, as it is
one of the finest pieces of legislation to
come to my desk this year. This act makes
Federal monies available to State and
local governments for their use in provid-
ing a wide array of manpower services to
their citizens, thereby putting an end to
the patchwork system of individual, rigid,
categorical manpower programs which
began in the early 1960's.
Manpower services which State and
local governments can provide under this
legislation include: employment counsel-
ing, supportive services, classroom educa-
tion and occupational skills training,
training on the job, work experience, and
transitional public service employment.
These services are not new ones. What is
new, however, is the fact that funds to
provide these services will, for the first
time, be made available to State and local
governments without any Federal strings
as to what kind of services or how much
of those services should be provided. From
now on, State and local governments will
be the decisionmakers concerning the mix
of manpower services which they make
available.
The Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act of 1973 represents a signifi-
cant shift in intergovernmental respon-
sibilities. The first legislation to incorpo-
rate the essential principles of special
revenue sharing, this bill represents an
important companion piece to the gen-
eral revenue sharing legislation I signed
last year. It also marks the culmination of
December 28, 1973
almost 5 years of manpower reform efforts
which began with my proposal for a new
Manpower Training Act of 1969.
The Federal manpower program is a
vital part of our national effort to con-
serve and develop our human resources
and to help individuals adjust produc-
tively to changing economic conditions-
including whatever temporary dislocations
may ensue from the current energy
shortage.
One important feature of this new act
provides an extra share of money for com-
munities in which unemployment is high.
Such added funds can be used by State
and local governments to provide transi-
tional public service jobs or any of the
other useful manpower services authorized
in the legislation. In order to carry out this
feature of the act forthwith, I will in-
clude in my budget to be transmitted when
the Congress reconvenes, an amendment
requesting $250 million for the current
fiscal year.
In my State of the Union Message 3
years ago, I urged the Congress to join
in the enactment of new and more crea-
tive approaches to government. As I
phrased it then, "... let us put the money
where the needs are. And let us put the
power to spend it where the people are."
This long-overdue shift in intergovern-
mental responsibilities is now a reality in
one key area of government domestic pro-
grams manpower.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 1559) is Public
Law 93-203 (87 Stat. 839).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
1026
