Appendix B
September
20 The President met with Vice President
Spiro T. Agnew in the President's office in
the Old Executive Office Building.
21 The President announced the members of
the delegation which would represent him
at the funeral of King Gustav of Sweden on
September 25. They were: Adm. Arleigh A.
Burke (USN, ret.), Representative of the
President and head of the delegation; Rep-
resentative Albert W. Johnson of Pennsyl-
vania; Jerome Holland, former United
States Ambassador to Sweden; Franklin S.
Forsberg; and Arthur Olson, Chargé d'Af-
fairs, United States Embassy, Stockholm.
21 Sunthorn Hongladarom, Secretary Gen-
eral of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organi-
zation, met with the President at the White
House.
21 Marshall T. Mays, President of the Over-
seas Private Investment Corporation, met
with the President at the White House.
24 Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah met
with the President at the White House to
report on his trip to Vienna where he at-
tended the International Atomic Energy
Conference meetings which began Septem-
ber 18.
25 Representative Dick Shoup of Montana
called on the President at the White House
to present a plaque from the Montana Out-
fitters and Dude Ranch Association ex-
pressing the Association's deep concern for
the Nation's efforts in environment and
conservation.
25 Representative Gerald R. Ford, House mi-
nority leader, met with the President at
the White House.
26 Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare Casper W. Weinberger, met with the
President at the White House to discuss the
progress in securing enactment of the Presi
dent's education initiatives.
27 The Republican leadership of the Congress
met with the President at the White House.
September
28 Soviet Foreign Minister A A. Gromyko met
with the President at the White House.
28 Daniel P. Moynihan, United States Am-
bassador to India, met with the President
at the White House.
29 Chancellor Willy Brandt of the Federal
Republic of Germany met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
29 Senator Charles H. Percy of Illinois met
with the President at the White House.
October
1 The President participated in a promotion
ceremony at the White House for Brig.
Gen. Brent Scowcroft, Deputy Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs.
General Scowcroft was promoted to the
rank of major general in the U.S. Air Force.
1 Representative Del Clawson of California
called on the President at the White House
to present a centennial plate from the city
of Downey, Calif., which was celebrating its
100th anniversary.
4 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House.
4 Members of the President's Foreign Intelli-
gence Advisory Board met with the Presi-
dent in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
9 The President announced the designation
of a delegation to represent him at inaugu-
ral ceremonies for Juan Domingo Perón as
President of the Argentine Republic in Bue-
nos Aires from October 10 to 14. The mem-
bers of the delegation, all with the rank of
Special Ambassador, were: Robert H.
Finch, Personal Representative of the Presi-
dent and head of the delegation; and Am-
bassador John Davis Lodge and Senator
Carl T. Curtis, Representatives of the
President.
10 Members of the bipartisan Congressional
leadership met with the President at the
White House to discuss the military situa-
tion in the Middle East and U.S. diplo
matic activities concerning the situation.
1
I
1082
