Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
eventually began to emerge five months
later to the day.
I took these actions only after all other
options had been exhausted and the im-
peratives were clear. We could not pas-
sively acquiesce in all-out aggression,
fueled by the arms of outside powers and
conducted in total disregard of interna-
tional agreements and understandings.
Most immediately, the enemy attacks
threatened our remaining forces in South
Vietnam as well as regional stability. Be-
yond that, it challenged America's
credibility and thus the chances for stabil-
ity around the world. Finally, it was the
eve of my journey to Moscow: how could
the President of the United States go to a
summit meeting while our ally was being
overrun with the help of arms supplied
by the country he was visiting?
The South Vietnamese stood up well
under the massive attack, which was de-
signed to inflict political, psychological,
and economic damage as well as to gain
territory. Enemy guns pounded civilian
centers, such as Quang Tri City and An
Loc, into rubble, but the Communists
kept little territory, and they failed to
crack the spirit of the South Vietnamese.
Buoyed by our actions, our allies rolled
back most Communist territorial gains
and liberated Quang Tri City, the only
provincial capital the Communists had
been able to take. More than one million
South Vietnamese "voted with their feet"
by moving into areas controlled by their
government rather than staying with the
enemy. Local leaders performed well un-
der pressure. Even opposition groups
closed ranks with the government against
the common enemy. The inevitable eco-
nomic dislocations were slight. The land
reform program continued and, by March
1973, two and a half million acres had
been distributed by the government,
virtually eliminating land tenancy in
South Vietnam.
Thus, the North Vietnamese offensive
had failed. The steady development of
Vietnamization and the allied military
reactions of 1970 and 1971 had made pos-
sible the defense of South Vietnam in
1972. The climactic military phase
gradually underlined to all parties the
futility of continued conflict and the need
for genuine negotiations.
In sum, the military measures we took
in Indochina were a difficult but essential
aspect of our peace-making efforts. In
each case we made clear our limited ob-
jectives. Throughout we emphasized the
alternative route of a negotiated end to
the conflict. Reinforcing the tracks of
Vietnamization and negotiations, these
decisive actions made an indispensable
contribution to the peace that was finally
achieved.
NEGOTIATING THE PEACE
The Agreement which was signed in
Paris on January 27, 1973, culminated
four years of intensive negotiating effort.
Throughout this process, our fundamental
attitude was as I described it on Novem-
ber 2, 1972:
"We are going to sign the agreement
when the agreement is right, not one day
before. And when the agreement is right,
we are going to sign without one day's
delay."
In Vietnamization the guiding principle
was to give the South Vietnamese the
chance to defend themselves; in negotia-
tions it was to give the South Vietnamese
the chance to choose for themselves.
381
