[274] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
|
promise which has now emerged augurs
well for progress on many other fronts
where the American people are anxious
for legislative action.
The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 pro-
vides a strong charter for continued im-
provement in the quality and quantity
of federally financed vocational rehabilita-
tion services to physically and mentally
handicapped Americans. Under the basic
authority extended in this bill, some $700
million is being sought for this purpose in
fiscal year 1974, almost double the amount
that was being spent under the program
when this Administration took office. This
sum would ensure that the 1.2 million
men and women currently being helped
by the rehabilitation program-a 50
percent increase over the 1969 level- -will
enjoy the benefits of expanded job oppor-
tunities and further steps toward
independence.
At the same time, the new law wisely
avoids certain pitfalls which led me to
reject earlier versions. Its funding levels,
while adequate, do not abrogate the fiscal
disciplines essential for a noninflationary,
balanced budget. This bill keeps the Fed-
eral vocational rehabilitation program
focused on its original and proper purpose,
that of preparing people for meaningful
jobs, rather than burdening that program
with broad new medical or welfare func-
tions better performed elsewhere. The
legislation also preserves the administra-
tive flexibility necessary for the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
and State rehabilitation agencies to man-
age the program effectively. It provides a
strong impetus for serving those who are
most in need and most likely to benefit
from vocational rehabilitation services.
In sum, the executive-legislative part-
nership which has placed this legislation
on the statute books makes this a good
day for those of our fellow citizens whose
courage and spirit in the face of physical
adversity provide inspiration for all of us.
It is a good day too for all Americans who
have wanted the Congress and the Ad-
ministration to stop butting heads and
start pulling together for the public good.
Last spring, shortly after completing
my series of State of the Union reports to
the Congress, I was forced to exercise my
first veto of 1973 on a vocational rehabili-
tation bill which was fiscally and pro-
grammatically unsound. It is perhaps sym-
bolic that a good bill drawn to serve the
same ends is the first major piece of social
legislation which I have had the oppor-
tunity to sign after this September's State
of the Union appeal for a fresh start on
our long legislative agenda.
More than 50 bills still remain on that
agenda. I look forward to working in
close cooperation with the Congress in
the weeks ahead in the hope that many
more of these bills can be enacted into
law.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill HR. 8070 is
Public Law 93-112 (87 Stat 355).
The President signed the bill in a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the act and its provisions by Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare Caspar W.
Weinberger.
824
