Richard Nixon, 1973
May 15 [153]
THE PRESIDENT. Under the rules of
the House, you can have 5 minutes.
CONGRESSMAN MOORHEAD. I never
seem to get those 5 minutes.
THE PRESIDENT. It is awfully hard.
One minute then, or more.
CONGRESSMAN MOORHEAD. Just let me
say that not only is Roberto Clemente the
number one citizen of my city of Pitts-
burgh, but also of Puerto Rico and, I be-
lieve, as a result of his activities, of the
entire world.
COMMISSIONER JAIME BENITEZ. Would
the gentleman yield?
CONGRESSMAN MOORHEAD. I yield to
the Delegate from Puerto Rico.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Mr. Delegate.
COMMISSIONER BENITEZ. I would like
to say, Mr. President, on behalf of Puerto
Rico, we are very honored by this occa-
sion. We knew Clemente well and loved
him as he has been loved by all of you, and
we are particularly thankful to you for
your great interest.
THE PRESIDENT. As you all know,
ladies and gentlemen, when they do refer
to the international character of this event,
it should be noted that not only the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico is to benefit
from it, the city of Pittsburgh, in many
respects, since Roberto Clemente grew to
fame in that city, but Managua in Nicara-
gua, one of our friends to the south. And
I think that is the way Roberto Clemente
would have wanted it. And we hope, as a
result of the sale of these medals, that all
three of those countries, and those cities,
particularly, will benefit.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 3841) is Public
Law 93-33 (87 Stat. 71), which authorized
the striking of one gold commemorative medal
and not more than 200,000 duplicates. Profits
from the sale of the medals would be contrib-
uted to the Roberto Clemente Memorial Fund
in Pittsburgh, Pa.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet which included information on the
Presidential Citizens Medal and biographical
data on Mr. Clemente.
153 Toasts of the President and Emperor Haile Selassie
of Ethiopia. May 15,
Your Imperial Majesty and our very dis-
tinguished guests:
As I sat here in this room tonight
thinking of this very distinguished com-
pany, I thought how fortunate all of us
are. This Nation is 195 years old, this
house is about 185 years old, and in the
whole long history of this Nation, no
chief of state, no head of government has
been received more often, honored more
often, than is the man we honor tonight.
Many of us remember him, of course,
from those days when he stood at the old
League of Nations as the Lion of Judah,
1973
37 years ago, and captured the imagina-
tion of everybody who loved freedom
and independence all over the world.
But through the years, those of us who
have followed him since know that this
man, the man we receive again in this
house tonight, stands for far more than his
own country, great as that country is and
long as its proud history is, because His
Imperial Majesty, who for 57 years has
been the head of state-57 years-His
Imperial Majesty is not only the revered
leader of Ethiopia, as anyone who has
visited that country knows-and I have
531
