Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 26 [340]
help we can achieve it. And it is that goal
that I spoke to last night, and that I speak
to you again about today. And I speak
to it in the language that this audience,
I would say as much as any audience in
America, believes in. You believe in inde-
pendence. You believe in a strong, self-
sufficient America. Now let me just put
this in perspective for one moment.
After I had made my talk last night,
I had a conversation with one individ-
ual who said, "You know, what
you said
sounded a little isolationist. We are going
to be self-sufficient in energy, so you are
going to be self-sufficient in other areas as
well, and that means we are not going to
deal with other parts of the world." And
of course, if that is what we are talking
about, that is not good news for Paul
Hall, that is not good news for you,
be-
cause, of course, your business is moving
the cargoes around the world.
I don't mean that at all. The United
States will always continue to play its part
in the world, but the United States will
never be dependent on any other part of
the world whenever there is a crisis. That
is all there is to it. So, we are going to play
our part in the world. It will mean we will
continue, as times go on, to trade with
other nations and that will expand. We
will continue to use their energy sources
whenever they are at the right price and
so forth, and that will expand. But we
want to be in a position so that nobody
can cut our lifeline. That is what we are
talking about. Nobody can cut America's
lifeline.
And now, President Hall, if I could
close on one personal note. After my re-
marks here, in our talk in the Oval Office,
people said, "Why didn't you become a
sailor?" Because I love to my best sub-
ject in grammar school, high school, was
what we called then geography. I think
they call it social studies or something like
that today. And I was pretty good at it.
I loved the world, and I loved to think
of places far away. Madagascar, that
is the only place I haven't been. But I
saw that island off the coast of Africa,
and I said, "Some day I want to go to
Madagascar," and I wrote a paper in
grammar school about Madagascar.
What I am simply saying is this: that
I have an interest, as you have an inter-
est, in seeing the great world that we live
in, and as a matter of fact, if I were much
younger, I would be a volunteer to go to
Mars or some of those other places. I
must say, they won't take me, but I would
go if they would allow it. I have already
applied. They have already turned me
down.
Why, then, didn't I become a sailor?
And now I have a confession to make.
I get seasick. Or I should say, I did
get seasick, and I asked Paul one day,
I said, "Do sailors get seasick?" He
said, "Almost all of them do sometimes if
the weather is rough enough."
I can't believe that, because I have seen
these motion pictures, you know, the old
sailing rigs rocking and the man standing
on the deck and he is standing there,
somebody is leaning over the side, but the
captain is standing there, sort of grinning
at him, so apparently captains never can
get seasick.
I wondered, however, why it was that
in later years and I have done a little
traveling by boat, not in very heavy seas,
but sometimes when there has been a
pretty good storm off the coasts of Florida
and California-I have wondered why I
have never been seasick or airsick for the
981
