Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [63]
should not be involved in making political
statements, and that does not mean, if we
look at Mr. Hoover's record, that he will
not say some things that may sound polit-
ical at times, but it means that he must
not become involved in partisan politics,
supporting a candidate, opposing a candi-
date, and Mr. Gray, on the basis of what
I have seen, had no intention of doing
so. If there was anything indicating that
during the campaign that we were trying
to enlist him in that, it certainly didn't
have my support and would not have it
now.
I would also say, too, that the current
Senate investigation or hearing, I should
say, of Mr. Gray, is altogether proper.
They should ask him all these questions.
I want the people of this country to have
confidence in the Director of the FBI. I
had confidence in him when I nominated
him.
I believe that the Senate will find,
based on his record since he was nomi-
nated, that he has been fair, he has been
efficient, and that he will be a good, shall
we say, lawman in the tradition of J.
Edgar Hoover, and I am sure that the
Senate will overwhelmingly approve him.
Q. Mr. President, do you think it is fair
and efficient for Mr. Gray and the FBI
not to question Mrs. Mitchell when they
think there was cause to because her hus-
band was a former Attorney General and
campaign official of yours?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to other
questions on Mr. Gray, it has always been
my practice, as you ladies and gentlemen
know, not to comment on a hearing while
it is in process. This is a matter that was
brought up in the hearing.
I am sure that if the Members of the
Senate feel that that was an improper
activity on his part, they will question him
about it, and he will answer on it. But
whether it is this hearing or any other
hearing, I will not comment on a hearing
while it is in progress.
My answer to Mr. Mollenhoff stated a
principle. Your question goes to a matter
that the committee has a right to look
into, and the answer should come from
the committee.
HOSTAGES IN THE SUDAN
[10.] Q. Mr. President, we have a
crisis, of course, in the Sudan where a
U.S. Ambassador is being held hostage,³
and one of the ransom demands is that
Sirhan Sirhan be released. I wonder if
you have any comment on this, particu-
larly on that demand?
THE PRESIDENT. Last night I was sit-
ting by the wife of Mr. Rabin, and we
were saying that the position of ambas-
sador, once so greatly sought after, now,
in many places, becomes quite dangerous.
As you know, we had a problem in
Latin America last year; we have one
here this year. I don't mean to suggest it
is that hazardous everyplace, but it is a
problem and it is a risk that an ambas-
sador has to take.
As far as the United States as a govern-
ment giving in to blackmail demands, we
cannot do so and we will not do so.
Now, as to what can be done to get
these people released, Mr. Macomber * is
On March 1, 1973, Ambassador Cleo A.
Noel, Jr., Deputy Chief of Mission George
Curtis Moore, and Belgian Chargé d'Affaires
Guy Eid were seized at a reception at the Saudi
Arabian Embassy in Khartoum, by members of
the Arab terrorist organization, Black Septem-
ber.
* Deputy Under Secretary of State for Man-
agement William B. Macomber, Jr.
157
