Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [233]
gratified that it includes important pro-
posals to which I have long given high
priority. I sign S. 502 with confidence that
it will contribute significantly to the
strength of our American economy and
the quality of American life.
NOTE: The President signed the bill in a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, S. 502, which includes the Fed-
eral-Aid Highway Act of 1973 and the Highway
Safety Act of 1973, is Public Law 93-87 (87
Stat. 250).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on provisions of the act by Claude S.
Brinegar, Secretary of Transportation, and Mel-
vin R. Laird, Counsellor to the President for
Domestic Affairs.
233 Address to the Nation About the Watergate
Investigations. August 15, 1973
Good evening:
Now that most of the major witnesses
in the Watergate phase of the Senate
committee hearings on campaign prac-
tices have been heard, the time has come
for me to speak out about the charges
made and to provide a perspective on the
issue for the American people.
For over 4 months, Watergate has
dominated the news media. During the
past 3 months, the three major networks
have devoted an average of over 22 hours
of television time each week to this sub-
ject. The Senate committee has heard
over 2 million words of testimony.
This investigation began as an effort
to discover the facts about the break-in
and bugging of the Democratic National
Headquarters and other campaign abuses.
But as the weeks have gone by, it has
become clear that both the hearings
themselves and some of the commentaries
on them have become increasingly ab-
sorbed in an effort to implicate the Presi-
dent personally in the illegal activities
that took place.
Because the abuses occurred during my
Administration, and in the campaign for
my reelection, I accept full responsibility
for them. I regret that these events took
place, and I do not question the right of
a Senate committee to investigate charges
made against the President to the extent
that this is relevant to legislative duties.
However, it is my constitutional re-
sponsibility to defend the integrity of this
great office against false charges. I also
believe that it is important to address the
overriding question of what we as a na-
tion can learn from this experience and
what we should now do. I intend to dis-
cuss both of these subjects tonight.
The record of the Senate hearings is
lengthy. The facts are complicated, the
evidence conflicting. It would not be
right for me to try to sort out the evidence,
to rebut specific witnesses, or to pronounce
my own judgments about their credibility.
That is for the committee and for the
courts.
I shall not attempt to deal tonight with
the various charges in detail. Rather, I
shall attempt to put the events in per-
spective from the standpoint of the
Presidency.
On May 22, before the major witnesses
had testified, I issued a detailed statement
addressing the charges that had been
made against the President.
I have today issued another written
statement, which addresses the charges
that have been made since then as they
691
