[71] Mar. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
two very brave men, but they knew and
we knew that in the event we had paid
international blackmail in this way, it
would have saved their lives, but it would
have endangered the lives of hundreds of
others all over the world, because once
the individual, the terrorist, or the others,
has a demand that is made, that is satis-
fied, he then is encouraged to try it again.
And that is why the position of your Gov-
ernment has to be one in the interest of
preserving life, of not submitting to inter-
national blackmail or extortion anyplace
in the world.
That is our policy and that is the policy
we are going to continue to have.
Ladies and gentlemen, today we honor
two brave men and all of the others here
on this plaque and the one on the other
side, who have given their lives for their
country while serving in the Foreign Serv-
ice. And today, too, we not only express
the policy of the United States of Amer-
ica, but we use this opportunity respect-
fully to suggest that other governments
throughout the world, rather than stand-
ing aside, should join with us in taking
this firm line against extortion and against
international blackmail by terrorist
groups.
I am quite aware of the fact that there
are some governments who take the line
that since they are not the targets of the
terrorists, they can stand aside and not
join in any international effort to be firm
against terrorism, whether it is in the
United Nations or bilaterally or multi-
laterally with other nations.
I would only suggest this: The nation
that compromises with the terrorists today
could well be destroyed by the terrorists
tomorrow. And as far as we are concerned,
we therefore feel we are on very sound
ground in calling upon the whole world
community to join together in a firm stand
against international outlaws who today
endanger the nationals of one country,
maybe the United States, and tomorrow
will endanger the lives of others.
Finally, on this particular day, may I
close as I began, by expressing the deep
appreciation of the President of the
United States and all that the President
represents in his office for your service
to the country.
I must say that just having had lunch in
the State Department for the first time, at
least in this building, for the first time
since I have been President, I was think-
ing of how many times I freeloaded
around the world at various embassies
abroad.
Secretary Rogers, I have probably vis-
ited more countries in the world than any
public figure in America today, and I
know what a burden it is to have a Con-
gressman, a Senator, a prominent private
citizen, a Vice President, a VIP, or a
President to come visit you.
I can only say I have always been proud
of those who represent America abroad in
the Foreign Service, proud of your service
to the Nation. We stand behind you all
the way.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in the
lobby of the Department of State, where he
viewed the American Foreign Service Associa
tion plaque listing those who have lost their
lives in the Foreign Service.
Thomas D. Boyatt, Director for Cyprus Af-
fairs, Department of State, was chairman of the
board of directors of the American Foreign
Service Association.
Earlier in the day, Abdel Rahman Abdallah,
Minister of Public Service and Administrative
Reform of the Sudan, and Sudanese Ambas-
sador Abdel Aziz al-Nasri Hamza called on the
President at the White House to express, on
behalf of President Jaafar M. Nimeiri, condo-
170
