Richard Nixon, 1973
II
Apr. 11 [115]
counting heavily has not vested and hence
is not due him.
The legislation this Administration is
proposing would meet this problem by re-
quiring that pensions become vested at an
appropriate specified point in a worker's
career. That point should not be set too
early: if a great many younger, short-
term workers acquired vested rights,
pension plans would be burdened with
considerable extra costs and the level of
benefits for retiring workers could be re-
duced. But neither should too long a wait
be required before vesting begins, since
many older workers would then receive
little if any assistance. To strike the right
balance, I urge the Congress to adopt a
"Rule of 50" vesting formula, which is
moderate in cost and works well to protect
older workers.
Under this standard, all pension bene-
fits which have been earned would be con-
sidered half vested when an employee's
age plus the number of years he has parti-
cipated in the pension plan equals 50.
From this half-vested starting point, an
additional ten percent of all of the bene-
fits earned would be vested each year, so
that the pension would be fully vested five
years later.
For example, someone joining a plan
at age 30 would find that his pension
would become 50 percent vested at age
40-when his years of participation (10)
plus his age (40) would equal 50. Simi-
larly, the pension of an employee joining
a plan at age 40 would become 50 percent
vested at age 45, and that of an employee
joining a plan at age 50 would begin to
vest immediately. And in each case, the
degree of vesting would increase from 50
percent to 100 percent over the subse-
quent five-year period of the worker's
continued employment.
So that this formula would not dis-
courage employers from hiring older
workers, who would have an advantage of
more rapid vesting, the legislation would
permit a waiting period of up to three
years before a new employee must be al-
lowed to join a pension plan, and it would
also permit employees hired within five
years of normal retirement age to be
excluded from participation in a plan.
Under the "Rule of 50," the propor-
tion of full-time workers in private retire-
ment plans with vested pension benefits
would increase from 32 percent to 61 per-
cent. Among participants age 40 and older
the percentage with vested pension bene-
fits would rise from 40 percent to about
90 percent.
To avoid excessive pension cost in-
creases which might lead to reduction of
benefits, this new law would apply only
to benefits earned after the bill becomes
effective, although the number of years
a worker participated in a pension plan
prior to enactment would count toward
meeting the vesting standard. The aver-
age cost increase for plans which now
have no vesting provision would be about
1.9 cents per hour for each covered em-
ployee; for plans that now provide some
vesting it would be even less.
2. Employees expecting retirement
benefits under employer-financed defined-
benefit pension plans should have the
security of knowing that their vested bene-
fits are being adequately funded.
Perhaps the most fundamental aspect
of any pension plan is the assurance that
when retirement age arrives, pension
benefits will be paid out according to the
terms of the plan. To give this assurance,
it is essential that when an employer
makes pension promises he begin putting
away the money that will eventually be
275
