Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
$150 million. We expect preliminary data
to emerge from these tests in the coming
months and we intend to use these data
as we evaluate the possibility of further
efforts.
This work should help us answer some
important and difficult questions.
What, for example, is the appropriate
proportion of income that lower income
families should pay for housing? Should
this level be higher or lower for different
kinds of families-for young families
with children, for example, or for the el-
derly, or for other groups? Should fam-
ilies receiving Federal aid be required to
spend any particular amount on housing?
If they are, and the requirement is high,
what kind of inflationary pressures, if any,
would that produce in tight housing mar-
kets and what steps could be taken to ease
those pressures? In the important case
where poor families already own their own
housing, how should that fact be weighed
in measuring their income level? How
should the program be applied in the
case of younger families who have par-
ents living with them?
All these questions are critical-and
they deserve close examination.
In addition, I am also asking the Con-
gress for authority to take two other steps
to help us test the cash assistance
approach.
First, we need to expand our experi-
mental programs to test additional tech-
niques for administration.
Second, we need to develop and put
into effect the appropriate mechanisms
for measuring the cost of safe and sani-
tary housing in various parts of the coun-
try. Sound, reliable cost information of
this kind would be of vital importance
to a fully operational program.
If these steps can be taken in the near
future, then I believe we will have the
basic information needed to make a final
decision concerning this approach late in
1974 or early in 1975.
A CONTINUING NEED FOR LIMITED
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS
During the period in which a new
approach is being developed, there will
be a continuing need to provide housing
for some low income families. We must
recognize that in some areas of the coun-
try there will simply not be a sufficient
supply of housing for the foreseeable fu-
ture. I therefore propose that the Fed-
eral Government continue to assist in
providing a limited amount of construc-
tion for low income housing-though I
would expect to use this
this approach
sparingly.
To eliminate the many tangled prob-
lems which attend the delivery of subsi-
dies under current construction programs,
I am recommending a new approach to
construction assistance by the Federal
Government. Under this approach, the
developer would make newly constructed
units available at special rents for low in-
come families and the Government in re-
turn would pay the developer the differ-
ence between such rents and fair market
rents.
During the remainder of fiscal year
1974, the Department of Housing and
Urban Development will continue to
process subsidy applications for units
which had moved most of the way through
the application process by January 5 of
this year. In addition, the Department will
process applications in cases where bona
fide commitments have been made.
809
