[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
The end result could be an abrupt and
deeply dangerous upsetting of the bal-
ance that has been created-and a dis-
integration of the bridges to reconciliation
whose construction has been so effectively
begun.
We shall continue to work closely with
the governments and peoples of Asia in
their efforts to improve the quality of
their lives and raise their standards of
living. Obviously, what we do in this area
can only supplement the central efforts
that they make themselves. But that sup-
plement can be of great importance--both
to their progress and to the quality of the
political relations we enjoy with those
concerned.
The United States will continue to be a
major power in Asia and to make its es-
sential contribution to the creation of a
stable framework of peace. To that end,
we give our pledge:
-to be steadfast and dependable in
support of our friends;
-to continue to bear our fair share of
the responsibility for the security of
our allies;
-to develop, with realism and imagi-
nation, new and mutually beneficial
relations with former adversaries in
Asia;
-to help, within our limitations, the
continued impressive economic prog-
ress of one of the world's most vital
regions; and
-above all, to take every step within
our power to prevent the recurrence
of conflict in an area that has known
so much suffering and sacrifice for so
many centuries.
We can do no more. We would not be
true to ourselves or to our deepest inter-
ests if we did less.
LATIN AMERICA
Over the past four years, our interest
has been focused on, and our energies
dedicated to, a number of supremely im-
portant tasks in the world arena: ending
a war in an honorable way; putting our
relations with long-standing antagonists
on a more rational and workable basis;
correcting major imbalances in our trade
and monetary relationships; and, above
all, creating the foundations for a durable
structure of peace.
The time and concentration that have
gone into these complicated but abso-
lutely crucial efforts have produced alle-
gations that we were neglecting other
problems, other areas, and especially other
friendly nations. In Latin America this
feeling has been particularly widespread,
and it is quite understandable. Most
Latin Americans, their governments and
institutions have become accustomed to
dealing with us on the most intimate basis.
The flow of people, information, ideas,
capital, and goods between the United
States and Latin America has increased
greatly, particularly since World War
II. In some ways, this created a sense of
psychological and economic dependence
on the United States.
Meanwhile, U.S. attention to Latin
America has seemed to wax and wane.
At times we appeared to take Latin
America for granted. At other times, our
zeal and our sense of "mission" led us to
take a tutelary role with our neighbors.
When we raised the banner of reform, as
in the Alliance for Progress, we sometimes
tried to tell our neighbors what they really
needed and wanted. While all this was
done with good intentions and humani-
tarian concern, and while our efforts had
432
