Appendix B
January
31 Alaska State Senator Donald Young, Re-
publican candidate for Congress, called on
the President at the White House. He was
accompanied by Senator Ted Stevens of
Alaska and Republican National Chairman
George Bush.
31 The President sent a letter to President
Cevdet Sunay of Turkey to express his
sincere condolences and deep regret fol-
lowing the killing in California of Turkish
Consul General Mehmet Baydar and Vice
Consul Bahadir Demir.
February
1 The President received the report of Emer-
gency Board No. 183 created to investigate
and report on the dispute involving the Port
Authority Trans-Hudson Corporation and
the Brotherhood Railway Carmen of the
United States and Canada.
1 The President sent a message to the eighth
annual United Nations Inter-American
Economic and Social Council meeting in
Bogotá, Colombia. The message was read
by Assistant Secretary of State Charles A.
Meyer.
5 At the direction of the President, the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget transmitted to the Congress and to
the Comptroller General of the United
States a report on budgetary reserves, in ac-
cordance with the Federal Impoundment
and Information Act (Public Law 92-599).
The report is printed in the Federal Regis-
ter of February 6, 1973 (38 FR 3474).
5 Robert J. Brown, who resigned as Special
Assistant to the President, paid a farewell
call on the President.
5 Comdr. Alexander R. Larzelere, Coast
Guard Aide to the President, who was being
reassigned to other duties, met with the
President at the White House.
5 The family of Army Col. William Nolde
met with the President following funeral
services for Colonel Nolde at Arlington
National Cemetery. Colonel Nolde was
killed by artillery fire in Vietnam on Janu-
ary 27 shortly before the cease-fire went
into effect.
February
6 The Governments of the United States and
of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, on
behalf of the Parties of the Agreement on
Ending the War and Restoring Peace in
Vietnam signed on January 27, 1973,
agreed to propose Paris as the site for the
International Conference to be convened
February 26. They would consult on this
matter with the Parties listed in Article 19
of the Agreement.
7 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House prior to his departure
for the Far East. Earlier, the White House
announced that en route to Hanoi, Dr. Kis-
singer would visit Thailand to meet with
Prime Minister Thanom Kittikachorn as
well as with the United States Ambassadors
to Thailand, Cambodia, South Vietnam,
and Laos, and he would also visit Laos to
confer with the Prime Minister, Prince Sou-
vanna Phouma, on the prospects for a cease-
fire in Laos. It was also announced that Dr.
Kissinger would stop over in Hong Kong
en route from Hanoi to the People's Re-
public of China.
7 Representative Wilbur Mills, chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee,
met with the President at the White House
to discuss general legislative and tax and
trade matters.
8 The President held a breakfast meeting with
the Cabinet at the White House to discuss
the budget.
8 Senator Russell B. Long, chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, met with the
President at the White House to discuss a
number of domestic matters.
8 E. D. Kenna, newly elected president of the
National Association of Manufacturers,
called on the President at the White House.
8 Daniel P. Moynihan, United States Am-
bassador to India, met with the President
at the White House to receive guidance and
to exchange views on American policy in
South Asia prior to assuming his post.
1066
