Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 31 [317]
NEW PROPOSALS FOR MULTILATERAL
ASSISTANCE
Because multilateral lending institu-
tions make such a substantial contribution
to world peace, it must be a matter of con-
cern for the United States that the In-
ternational Development Association will
be out of funds by June 30, 1974, if its
resources are not replenished.
The developing world now looks to the
replenishment of IDA's resources as a key
test of the willingness of industrialized,
developed nations to cooperate in assur-
ing the fuller participation of developing
countries in the international economy.
At the Nairobi meeting of the World Bank
last month, it was agreed by 25 donor
countries to submit for approval of their
legislatures a proposal to authorize $4.5
billion of new resources to IDA. Under
this proposal, the share of the United
States in the replenishment would drop
from 40 percent to 33 percent. This repre-
sents a significant accomplishment in
distributing responsibility for develop-
ment more equitably. Other countries
would put up $3 billion, twice the pro-
posed United States contribution of $1.5
billion. Furthermore, to reduce annual
appropriations requirements, our pay-
ments can be made in installments at the
rate of $375 million a year for four years,
beginning in fiscal year 1976.
We have also been negotiating with
other participating nations to increase
funds for the long-term, low-interest op-
eration of the Asian Development Bank.
As a result of these negotiations, I am re-
questing the Congress to authorize $50
million of additional contributions to the
ADB by the United States-beyond a
$100 million contribution already ap-
proved. These new funds would be asso-
ciated with additional contributions of
about $350 million from other nations.
MEETING OUR RESPONSIBILITIES
In addition to these proposals for pledg-
ing future funds, I would point out that
the Congress also has before it appropria-
tions requests for fiscal year 1974-a year
that is already one-third completed—for
bilateral and multilateral assistance to
support our role in international coopera-
tion. It is my profound conviction that
it is in our own best interest that the Con-
gress move quickly to enact these pend-
ing appropriations requests. We are now
behind schedule in providing our con-
tributions to the International Develop-
ment Association, the Inter-American
Development Bank and the Asian Devel-
opment Bank, so that we are not keeping
our part of the bargain. We must show
other nations that the United States will
continue to meet its international respon-
sibilities.
All nations which enjoy advanced
stages of industrial development have a
grave responsibility to assist those coun-
tries whose major development lies ahead.
By providing support for international
economic assistance on an equitable basis,
we are helping others to help themselves
and at the same time building effective
institutions for international cooperation
in the critical years ahead. I urge the Con-
gress to act promptly on these proposals.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
October 31, 1973.
31-870 - 75-61
911
