Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 22 [268]
national narcotics problems. President
Nixon welcomed Prime Minister Bhutto's
recent statement pledging efforts to con-
trol narcotics traffic and progressively to
eliminate poppy cultivation. The Presi-
dent assured the Prime Minister of strong
U.S. support for Pakistan's efforts.
NOTE: See also Items 261 and 262.
267 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on the Administration of the National Sickle Cell
Anemia Control Act. September 21, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress
the First Annual Report on the Adminis-
tration of the National Sickle Cell Ane-
mia Control Act in accordance with the
requirements of Section 1106 of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act, as amended. The
Annual Report describes the ongoing re-
search and service activities established
to carry out the provisions of the act.
Research efforts to investigate the
mechanism and subsequent complications
of the abnormal sickling process in sickle
cell anemia have been significantly in-
creased over the past year under the Na-
tional Institutes of Health. Clinical trials
utilizing antisickling agents are underway
to alter the sickling process and thus aid
individuals who suffer from sickle cell
anemia. Demonstration service activities
designed to improve public awareness,
education, detection and counseling
concerning sickle cell disease have been
initiated by the Health Services Adminis-
tration.
These efforts are directed towards one
genetic blood disorder-sickle cell disease,
but the research and service results will
also be relevant to a broader spectrum of
genetic blood disorders. The fight against
sickle cell anemia continues to be a high
priority for our Government and I am
pleased to commend this report to the
attention of the Congress.
The White House,
September 21, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Annual Report
on the Administration of the National Sickle
Cell Anemia Control Act (P.L. 92-294)" (6
pp. plus appendix).
268 Remarks at the Swearing In of Henry A. Kissinger as
Secretary of State. September 22, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
We welcome you today to this ceremony
in which Dr. Henry A. Kissinger will be
sworn in as Secretary of State.
The Chief Justice of the United States
will now administer the oath of office.
[At this point, Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice
of the United States, administered the oath of
office. The President then resumed speaking.]
Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Secretary of State,
Members of the Cabinet, Members of the
House and the Senate, and all of our other
distinguished guests:
I know all of you will want to hear
31-870 - 75-55
815
