Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [163]
dictory. Additional information may be
forthcoming of which I am unaware. It is
also my understanding that the informa-
tion which has been conveyed to me has
also become available to those prosecuting
these matters. Under such circumstances,
it would be prejudicial and unfair of me
to render my opinions on the activities of
others; those judgments must be left to
the judicial process, our best hope for
achieving the just result that we all seek.
As more information is developed, I
have no doubt that more questions will be
raised. To the extent that I am able, I
shall also seek to set forth the facts as
known to me with respect to those
questions.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
President's statements by Leonard Garment,
Special Consultant and Acting Counsel to the
President, and J. Fred Buzhardt, Special Coun-
sel to the President.
163 Remarks at a Reception for Returned Prisoners of
War. May 24, 1973
Gentlemen:
As you can imagine, during my
term as President of the. United States
and also before that as Vice Presi-
dent, and in other offices, I have spoken
to many distinguished audiences. I can
say to you today that this is the most dis-
tinguished group I have ever addressed,
and I have never been prouder than I am
at this moment to address this group.
I say that not simply because you are
here and because the whole Nation shares
those views—as you know, some of you, I
am sure, who have traveled a bit around
the Nation since you have returned
home but I say it because I feel very
deeply at this moment, when we have a
culmination of the program which finally
has all of you returned to the United
States, that this is one of those critical
moments in history that can change the
world, and we need your help.
We do not talk to you today, and I do
not talk to you today, simply in terms of
thanking you, as I do, for what you have
gone through for your country, but I think
all of you would prefer to think of what
you can do now, how more you can serve.
We need you. The Nation needs you. I
want to tell you why.
Before doing so, I want to fill you in
for just a moment about the program for
the balance of this afternoon and this
evening.
As
you propably know, we have a rather
large dinner tonight out on the White
House lawn. They get the statistics for
me, and they tell me it is the biggest sit-
down dinner they have ever had at the
White House-1,300 people. Let me tell
you there are a lot of people mad because
they have not been invited, but we are
just having you and a few leaders from
Congress and two or three Cabinet officers
and that is all.
The normal custom at a White House
dinner, as you know, is for a receiving line,
and we considered that. But then I timed
that out, and if Mrs. Nixon and I were to
stand and shake hands with all 1,300
guests-you, your wives or your mothers
or the other guests you have with you-
it would take exactly 3 hours and 20 min-
utes. That is assuming we didn't chat as
you went through the line.
Now, by the time we went through 3
555
