[210] July 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
pneumonia, and believe me, there are a
lot of them that have had pneumonia.
All of them touched me, but I, as usual,
tried to pick one out that I thought was
particularly interesting. It would come
from California, as you might imagine-
Livermore, California, up north. I cam-
paigned it many years ago, in 1950, when
it was a small town. It has grown up a
little now. It is from an 8-year-old, and
he prints it.
He writes: "Dear President Nixon: I
heard you were sick with pneumonia. I
just got out of the hospital yesterday with
pneumonia and I hope you did not catch
it from me.
"Now you be a good boy and eat your
vegetables like I had to." I hate vege-
tables, but I will eat them. "If you take
your medicine and your shots, you will be
out in 8 days like I was. Love, John W.
James III, 8 years old."
Well, John W. James III, I got out in
7 days, so I did a little bit better than
he did. But perhaps my case of pneumonia
was not as difficult as his. I will take his
advice. I will eat my vegetables, try now
and then to take the shots-maybe not
the kind of shot that he takes, but who
knows, Walter Tkach is my adviser in
that respect.
But in any event, there is one bit of
advice that I am not going to take-and
I will not take too much of your time to
tell you about that advice, because this
is in a very serious vein-it will be of
interest to our friends in the press, to the
whole Nation, and to thousands who have
written me, and it will disturb my very
good corps of doctors who were advising
me to do this and do that and so forth
'Maj. Gen. Walter R. Tkach, USAF, Physi-
cian to the President.
and so on. And that is, they said, “Mr.
President, now look, you have excellent
health, you have been very fortunate that
you have established a modern record of
4½ years in the White House without
having missed a day because of illness,
but you have got to realize you are human.
You can't press yourself so much, and
what you have to do is to slow down a
little now and take some time off and
relax a little more."
I just want you to know what my answer
to them was and what my answer to you
is. No one in this great office at this time
in the world's history can slow down. This
office requires a President who will work
right up to the hilt all the time. That is
what I have been doing. That is what I
am going to continue to do. And I want
all of you to do likewise.
Oh, I know many say, "But then you
will risk your health." Well, the health of
a man is not nearly as important as the
health of the Nation and the health of the
world.
I do want you to know that I feel that
we have so little time in the positions that
all of us hold and so much to do. With
all that we have to do and so little time
to do it, at the end of the next 3½ years
to look back and think that, but for that
day, something went undone that might
have been done that would have made a
difference in whether we have peace in
the world or a better life here at home,
that would be the greatest frustration of
all.
I don't say this heroically, because I
know that every man who has ever been
in this position feels exactly the same way,
and has felt as I do.
So, I want you to know when I come
back from Camp David Monday morn-
ing, it is going to be full tilt all the way,
656
