Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 27 [371]
As the principal employer in Washington,
D.C., the Federal Government recognizes
its responsibility to pay its fair share of
the operations of the District government.
The measure I sign today also em-
powers the city to issue its own obligations,
while providing financially sound limita-
tions to its borrowing authority compara-
ble to those which exist in most other
municipalities in the United States.
The District of Columbia is a unique
combination of Federal and local con-
cerns, each of which must be satisfied. All
in all, I believe this legislation skillfully
balances the local interest and the na-
tional interest in the way the District of
Columbia is governed. I am pleased that
the bill has enjoyed bipartisan support
throughout the Congressional delibera-
tions, and I am proud to join the Congress
in pledging the full support of my Admin-
istration to make self-government a suc-
cess in the District of Columbia.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 1435) is Public
Law 93-198 (87 Stat. 774).
371 Letter of Sympathy About the Death of Harold B. Lee.
December 27, 1973
Dear President Kimball:
Mrs. Nixon and I were deeply saddened
to learn of the sudden death of Harold B.
Lee. All Americans mourn the loss of this
dedicated President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and we send
our heartfelt sympathy to the members of
the Church and to President Lee's family.
As President of the Church, and as an
educator, missionary, businessman, and
public official, President Lee's influence
for good has been deeply felt. The
Church's successful welfare program that
began in the 1930's gives just one example
of how President Lee's administrative and
organizational skills combined with his
faith and courage to bring hope and in-
spiration to millions in our Nation and in
our world.
For my own part, I knew him as a warm
and generous friend whose counsel and
prayers I have valued greatly. While we
will miss his presence among us, the great-
est tribute we can pay to his life will be to
carry on his mission of concern and com-
passion for mankind. Mrs. Nixon and I
know the sadness that you and the mem-
bers of the Church must feel at this time,
but we also feel a warmth and pride in the
life that President Lee has shared with us,
and the knowledge that his good work will
surely live on.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[President Spencer W. Kimball, The Council
of the Twelve, The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, 47 East South Temple Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111]
NOTE: Mr. Lee, 74, died in Salt Lake City,
Utah, on December 26, 1973.
The text of the letter was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah, James
C. Fletcher, Administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and J.
Willard Marriott were designated to represent
President Nixon at the funeral services for Mr.
Lee which were held in Salt Lake City on
December 29.
1025
