[337] Nov. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
ica is at peace throughout the world, that
there is no American being drafted any-
place. He can serve in the armed services,
volunteer, and I hope a lot of you do, be-
cause it is a proud profession.
I know we are all glad that our prison-
ers of war are home. I am glad that we
have the lowest unemployment in peace-
time that we have had in 18 years. We
have got some problems. They are seri-
ous problems in terms of our energy, but
that is a problem that exists all over the
world, and all that I can say is the great-
ness about America is that when we've got
problems, we just get out and solve them.
And by the time 1980 comes around, this
Nation, which has half the coal of the
world, which has lots of oil and lots of gas,
which also was the first in developing nu-
clear energy, let's make sure that we have
by that time and that is only 7 years
away that we have total independence,
so that America hasn't to depend on any
other nation in the world for the energy
we need for our jobs and the rest.
So to all of you, we are glad we have a
peace, the end of the war in Vietnam. We
are glad that we have avoided a war in
the Mideast. We also are building what
we hope will be a peace that will
last for all of these young people in
the years to come. But most of all,
let me say there is nothing that
warms our hearts more than to come
out here to this part of Tennessee, which
has so much history behind it, which has
so much strength and vitality within it,
and to receive such a wonderfully warm
welcome. You have made our day.
Thank you very much.
I see this last sign: "I believe in Nixon
and America." Let me tell you, I believe
in you, every one of you. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. out-
side the Rivermont Holiday Inn before meet-
ing with Governors who were attending the
Republican Governors Conference.
338 Remarks During a Meeting With Advisers To Discuss
Energy Policy. November 24, 1973
IT IS an uncommonly warm day as far as
the weather is concerned. The weather
has been on our side up to this point, but
not enough to avoid some pretty tough
and strong actions that we are going to
have to take on Monday.
JOHN A. LOVE [Director of the Energy
Policy Office]. It is difficult, of course, to
get that distribution thing equitably
spread.
THE PRESIDENT. I will make an an-
nouncement with regard to the steps that
we are taking with regard to the energy
problem on Monday (Sunday) night at
7 o'clock. That will be done live. It will
not be a long presentation, but Governor
Love, prior to that time, will brief the
press on all of the details. I will just make
approximately a very brief announcement
with regard to the steps that we are tak-
ing so the Nation will be aware, and
everybody will be aware, of how every-
body, through cooperation, can avoid, as
I said, any suffering. But everybody is go-
ing to have to do some sacrificing in order
to handle the energy crisis.
We have been going over it, yesterday,
and again today, and there is general
972
