Appendix B
November
13 The President and Mrs. Nixon attended a
party at the Congressional Club for Sena-
tor Wallace F. Bennett who was celebrating
his 75th birthday.
14 For further discussions of the Watergate
issue, the President met separately with:
-75 House Republicans at a breakfast
meeting, and
-13 Senate Republicans.
14 The President met at the White House with
Dr. E. K. Fedorov, co-chairman of the
Soviet delegation to the United States for
the second annual meeting of the U.S.-
U.S.S.R. Joint Committee on Cooperation
in the Field of Environmental Protection.
Also participating in the meeting were EPA
Administrator Russell E. Train and Soviet
Ambassador A. F. Dobrynin.
14 P. D. (Bud) Hermann, newly elected pres-
ident of the American Society of Associa-
tion Executives, called on the President at
the White House.
15 For further discussions of the Watergate
issue, the President met separately with:
-79 House Republicans at a breakfast
meeting,
-10 Senate Republicans, and
-39 House Democrats at a dinner meet-
ing.
15 Robert E. L. Eaton, newly elected national
commander of the American Legion, called
on the President at the White House.
15 Cambodian Foreign Minister Long Boret
met with the President at the White House.
16 The President held a breakfast meeting
with 28 House Republicans at the White
House to discuss the Watergate issue.
16 Representatives of Concerned Americans
for the President, from Jacksonville, Fla.,
called on the President at the White House
to express their support for him.
November
23 The President designated Gov. Ronald
Reagan of California as his Special Repre-
sentative for the promotion of U.S. trade
during a visit to East Asia. Between No-
vember 26 and December 5, Governor Rea-
gan visited Australia, Indonesia, and Singa-
pore and met with senior officials of the
host governments, American officials, and
local and American businessmen.
23 The President approved a time exten-
sion for the report of the Emergency Board
created on November 1, 1973, by Execu-
tive Order 11745, to investigate a labor
dispute involving the Long Island Rail
Road. The extension permitted the Board
to file its findings and recommendations by
January 4, 1974, instead of December 1,
1973.
26 A bipartisan group of six Senators met
with the President at the White House.
27 Members of the bipartisan Congressional
leadership met with the President at the
White House. During the meeting, Secre-
tary of State Kissinger reported on his re-
cent trip to the Middle East, the People's
Republic of China, Japan, and the Repub-
lic of Korea.
27 The President held a dinner meeting with
35 House Democrats to discuss Watergate
and related matters. The discussion also
included foreign policy and the energy
situation.
28 The President met at the White House with
Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of the In-
terior; Ronald H. Walker, Director of the
National Park Service; and Lynn A. Green-
walt, Director of the Bureau of Sport Fish-
eries and Wildlife. They discussed the
wilderness proposals being transmitted to
the Congress.
29 Representatives Louis Frey, Jr., of Florida
and Robert H. Steele of Connecticut met
with the President at the White House to
report on their recent trip to Israel.
1085
