[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
anxieties, and atmosphere of the Cold
War. The invasion of Czechoslovakia had
recently occurred. While the Soviet Gov-
ernment made overtures for better rela-
tions, its motives seemed largely tactical.
Yet, beneath the surface, it was apparent
that the pattern of world politics was in
the process of major transformation. The
salient features of this change have been
described in my previous Reports. Certain
elements had special relevance for our
relations with the Soviet Union.
-Divisions within the Communist
world had deepened; state and na-
tional interests of the major Com-
munist powers were increasingly
reflected in their policies toward non-
Communist countries.
-The realignment of political forces in
the Communist world coincided with
the economic revival of Western
Europe and Japan, reinforcing the
trend toward multipolarity.
-In particular, the more nearly equal
strategic balance between the United
States and the Soviet Union sug-
gested that conditions might be
optimal for reaching agreement to
limit strategic competition.
Recognizing these international trends,
this Administration began in 1969 to re-
assess our relations with the Communist
countries. Certain aspects of Soviet-
American relations were clear: the post-
war rivalry with the Soviet Union was not
a result simply of misunderstanding, or
personal animosities, or a failure to create
a good atmosphere for negotiations. The
conflict was rooted in deeper differences:
irreconcilable ideologies, the inevitable
geopolitical competition of great powers
conducting global policies and, to a cer-
tain degree, bureaucratic momentum and
the disillusionment created by decades of
fluctuation between hopes and tensions.
To break the pattern of the postwar
period required policies that distinguished
between the sources of conflict and their
external or temporary manifestations. We
needed not merely a better climate for our
relations, but a new environment in
which the United States and the Soviet
Union could exercise their special respon-
sibilities for peace. Ultimately we hoped to
create mutual interests in maintaining and
developing an international structure
based on self-restraint in the pursuit of
national interests.
The approach we adopted reflected cer-
tain general concepts.
-It was no longer realistic to allow
Soviet-American relations to be pre-
determined by ideology. We had to
recognize, of course, that many basic
Soviet values would remain inimical
to ours. Both sides had to accept the
fact that neither was likely to per-
suade the other through polemical
debates. But ideological elements did
not preclude serious consideration of
disputed issues.
-Irrespective of ideology, any relation-
ship between two great powers would
be highly competitive. Both sides had
to recognize, however, that in this
continuing competition there would
be no permanent victor, and equally
important, that to focus one's own
policy on attempts to gain advantages
at the other's expense, could only ag-
gravate tensions and precipitate
counteractions.
-Both sides had to accept the fact that
our differences could not be hidden
merely by expressions of goodwill;
they could only be resolved by precise
solutions of major issues.
-Both sides had to understand that
366
