Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 11 [115]
themselves as part of his pay and on the
investment income his savings earn.
Employees who want to establish their
own retirement plan or to augment an
employer-financed plan should be offered
a tax incentive comparable to that now
given those in group plans. Accordingly,
I am proposing that an individual's con-
tributions to a retirement savings pro-
gram be made tax-deductible up to the
level of $1,500 per year or 20 percent of
earned income, whichever is less, and that
the earnings from investments up to this
limit also be tax-exempt until received as
retirement income. Individuals could re-
tain the power to control the investment
of these funds, channeling them into
qualified bank accounts, mutual funds,
annuity or insurance programs, govern-
ment bonds, or other investments as they
desire.
The maximum deduction of $1,500
would direct benefits primarily to em-
ployees with low and moderate incomes,
while preserving an incentive to establish
employer-financed plans. The limit is
nevertheless sufficiently high to permit
older employees to finance a substantial
retirement income-a consideration
which is of special importance to the 9
million full-time workers in this country
who are between 40 and 60 years old and
are not participating in private pension
plans.
The $1,500 ceiling should be more than
adequate for most workers. Supposing for
example that a worker in that situation
was to start an independent plan at age
40, tax-free contributions of $1,500 a year
from then on would be sufficient to pro-
vide him an annual pension of $7,500,
over and above his basic Social Security
benefits, beginning at age 65.
The tax deduction I am proposing
would also be available to those already
covered by employer-financed plans, but
in this case the $1,500 maximum would
be reduced to reflect pension plan contri-
butions made by the employer.
4. Self-employed persons who invest in
pension plans for themselves and their
employees should be given a more gener-
ous tax deduction than they now receive.
At present, self-employed people who
establish pension plans for themselves and
their employees are subjected to certain
tax limitations which are not imposed on
corporations. Pension contributions by
the self-employed are tax-deductible only
up to the lesser of $2,500 or 10 percent of
earned income. There are no such limits
to contributions made by corporations on
behalf of their employees.
This distinction in treatment is not
based on any difference in reality, since
unincorporated entities and corporations
often engage in substantially the same
economic activities. Its chief practical ef-
fect has been to deny to the employees of
self-employed persons who do not wish to
incorporate benefits which are compara-
ble to those of corporate employees. It has
also led to otherwise unnecessary incor-
poration by persons solely for the purpose
of obtaining tax benefits.
To achieve greater equity, I propose
that the annual limit for deductible con-
tributions by the self-employed be raised
to $7,500 or 15 percent of earned income,
whichever is less. This provision would
enable the self-employed to provide more
adequate benefits for themselves and for
their workers, without causing excessive
revenue losses.
5. Workers who receive lump-sum
payments from pension plans when they
277
