Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 13 [77]
Hungary-coming over into Austria, and
I remember staying on that occasion in
the Embassy with the Thompsons, Mr.
Tommy Thompson and his wife.
And I remember that I, on my trips,
usually worked rather hard and never
found much time for shopping, and Mrs.
Thompson came in and said, "You really
ought to get something for your little
girls." I said, "But I don't have any time.'
She said, "Let me try." So she sent out,
and she bought two jackets for them,
these sort of Austrian jackets, you know,
that little girls wear, whatever they are,
and she brought them to us, and that
made me a real hero when I came home.
I paid her, incidentally, but for the
jackets, but not the gasoline. [Laughter]
But she did get that.
I think of those things, but also I think
of other things, and this gets to perhaps
more important things. Certainly the
entertainment that you must do of Con-
gressmen and Senators and others who
come, businessmen, all of this must some-
times be boring, sometimes it is quite ex-
citing. It is interesting to have people
come in. But the work also that people in
the Foreign Service-I am speaking now
abroad, and of course, most of you have
been abroad or will be going-the work
that the wives do in helping their hus-
bands communicate with the people of the
countries to which they are accredited is
something that many are not aware of.
We hear so much about the fact that
our diplomats are aloof, and they don't
know the language, and all that sort of
thing. That is baloney. I would say that
as I look at American diplomats in terms
of their training, in terms of their ability,
and in terms of their interest in the
peoples of the countries to which they are
accredited-I am speaking of our Foreign
Service, our career people—there are
none better in the world. I know that.
And there are no better wives in the
world. I know what you do. I know what
you have done. Let me mention one-to
show you how very important it is—who
was not in our Foreign Service, but who
set such a marvelous example and made
a strong impression on me.
It was our first trip abroad as Vice Pres-
ident. It was a long one, 70 days. That
was 70 days, black tie every night, cham-
pagne every night-I have never liked
it since. [Laughter] And we visited all of
the Asian countries, and I remember visit-
ing one of the great heroes of World War
II. He was then in Malaysia. His name
was General [Sir Gerald W. R.] Templer.
He was a remarkable man. I stayed up
very late to talk to him at night after look-
ing at some of the problems of the in-
surgency in Malaysia, which, as you know,
fortunately has been worked out, and both
Malaysia and Singapore are now inde-
pendent and free countries.
But I also heard, in talking to my Ma-
laysian friends there, about Lady Templer,
and Lady Templer had a language school.
She also was the primary leader in the
community there, in all sorts of volunteer
activities that reached the hearts of the
people. I could tell the people of Kuala
Lumpur loved Lady Templer, not because
she was the wife of a great general, not
because she had that title, but because she
was a kind and lovely woman and did
these things from the heart.
I mention her. She was British. I could
give you examples of our own. I can re-
member, for example, a wife of an Ameri-
can diplomat in Ethiopia.
Well, without getting into specific coun-
189
