[175] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
America, we can't correct what is wrong.
Our confidence in ourselves and our coun-
try does not mean that we should overlook
our problems. To the contrary, it should
help us look at our problems more real-
istically, to solve them more effectively.
Let me give you one example that we
have discussed in the past few days. We
have a serious problem with inflation in
this country. We are moving ahead de-
cisively to meet it at the national level,
but we are doing so not by turning our
economical system upside down, but by
building on the strengths of that system.
Why? Because when we look at what is
right about America, we can be thankful
that we have the best jobs, the best wages,
the greatest opportunities of any system
in the world and in history, and let us
not spoil that in the United States of
America.
None of us likes inflation. None of us,
when he goes to the supermarket or the
grocery store, likes to see those prices going
up. But inflation, as we all know, is a by-
product of prosperity. Our booming
economy-we are in the biggest boom in
America's history-has encouraged people
to buy more than they have ever bought
before, and because supplies have been
short, the demands have brought the
prices up. So we are putting the brakes on
these prices. But in applying the brakes,
we have been careful not to throw our
whole economy into a disastrous skid
which could drive us off that highway
to progress for America.
That is why 2 days ago I imposed a
temporary freeze on prices and pledged
that a new Phase IV would be set up after
the freeze. But, as I emphasized then, that
new Phase IV will be designed to get us
out of a controlled economy and not to
pull us further in. We must not destroy
the freedom and flexibility that are the
key to America's prosperity. We must not
control the boom in a way that would lead
to a bust, because over the long run, the
answer to rising prices does not lie in rigid
controls. The best way to hold down the
family budget is to hold down the Federal
budget and by working to expand the
supply of needed goods.
I think if Everett Dirksen were here
today, he would also say we should be
confident about our political system, be-
cause he was proud to be known as a
politician, and he gave new luster to that
profession.
We live in a time when many people
are cynical about politics and politicians.
Such times have occurred before. In this
profession, as in any, there is much that
could be improved. But there is also very
much to admire. And it would be a trag-
edy if we allowed the mistakes of a few to
obscure the virtues of most who are in
the profession of politics or if we let our
disappointment with some aspects of the
system to turn into despair with the sys-
tem as a whole.
The American system is working, and
we can be proud of that system. The way
to make it work better is to bring more
good people into it. And Everett Dirksen
would tell us today-the cynics of the
day-not to shun the system, but to share
in it, to enter the political arena and to
fight for their ideals. That is what he
would say today.
As I look over this great audience here
today and at those on the platform, I see
one of Senator Dirksen's two grandchil-
dren here. Her name is Cissy [Cynthia
Baker]. That is a nickname, but that is
what he always called her, and that is
what I remember. As I see her, I am
reminded, as many of you must be re-
590
