Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 18 [336]
Well, as you know, I am somewhat of
a football buff, probably because I never
made the team, even at Whittier. But I
followed the Falcons, and I guess you
could call them the comeback team of
1973. They lost their first three and they
have won their last six, and I have been
thinking I ought to have a talk with [Fal-
con head coach] Norm Van Brocklin and
find out how they did it.
With regard to this law school, when I
was speaking to Dr. Harris earlier, he said
it was a small law school, and I was think-
ing of my own law school at Duke when I
was there in the middle of the depression,
and when my roommate was a boy from
Macon, Georgia, Bill Perdue, who was
first in our class, the highest record ever
made by anybody who went to the Duke
Law School, and there were only 105 in
the Duke Law School total in the years
'34 to '37. So in my view, the size of the
law school is not what is important; it is
its quality.
And Mr. Vinson has, of course, re-
counted what this law school has pro-
duced, in terms of 4 Senators and 11
Congressmen and 10 Governors-6 of
them Governors of the State of Georgia-
and 45 judges of various courts, and that
is a great record for any law school, large
or small.
But a law school means more, simply,
than whether it produces public figures
of quality. A law school means the char-
acter of the young men and the young
women who go through those 3 years and
then go out into public life and what they
contribute. And I think Mercer, by the
very fact that it has produced the public
figures of such quality that I have men-
tioned, also over its 100 years produces
that great character that affects every
community, whether that lawyer is a very
big man in the community or-and just
as important-just a lawyer handling peo-
ple's cases, rich or poor, each of them
deserves honor and any law school that
produces them deserves honor.
I think it is very appropriate it is
named the Walter George School of Law.
As Carl Vinson was speaking, I was think-
ing of my first days in the House of Repre-
sentatives back in 1947, and I remember
that usually there wasn't much attention
paid to speakers—and Phil Landrum says
it is the same today, they don't pay much
attention. But I always remembered there
were two men who, when they spoke, the
chamber filled. One was Jim Wads-
worth-they always came to hear him—
from New York. And the other was Carl
Vinson.
And the reason they came was not be-
cause these two men always agreed, al-
though they always did agree on matters
of national defense, but because they were
the giants of the House in those days.
There were others that were giants, but
these two seem to loom above all of the
rest.
And in the Senate, the law school that
bears the name of Walter George also has
that same distinction, because I recall in
the days that I served in the United States
Senate, and later presided over it, that the
Senate chamber was usually empty, and
for good reason. The speeches really
weren't worth listening to. They were
worth reading, but not worth listening to.
But there were two men who filled that
chamber in those days almost inevitably.
One was Robert Taft and the other was
Walter George, and whenever those men
rose to their feet, the word would go
around in the cloakrooms and through the
offices, and the chamber would fill. They
didn't always agree, and they were very
different in their approach-Taft with his
967
