Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
June of '72, shortly after the Watergate
incident, and last March 21, when you
got new evidence and ordered a more
intensive investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly. In June, I,
of course, talked to Mr. MacGregor * first
of all, who was the new chairman of the
committee. He told me that he would
conduct a thorough investigation as far
as his entire committee staff was con-
cerned. Apparently that investigation was
very effective except for Mr. Magruder,"
who stayed on. But Mr. MacGregor does
not have to assume responsibility for that.
I say not responsibility for it, because
basically what happened there was that
he believed Mr. Magruder, and many
others have believed him, too. He proved,
however, to be wrong.
In the White House, the investigation's
responsibility was given to Mr. Ehrlich-
man at the highest level, and in turn, he
delegated them to Mr. Dean, the White
House Counsel, something of which I was
aware and of which I approved.
Mr. Dean, as White House Counsel,
therefore sat in on the FBI interrogations
of the members of the White House Staff,
because what I wanted to know was
whether any member of the White House
Staff was in any way involved. If he was
involved, he would be fired. And when
we met on September 15, and again
throughout our discussions in the month
of March, Mr. Dean insisted that there
was not-and I use his words-"a scintilla
of evidence" indicating that anyone on the
White House Staff was involved in the
* Clark MacGregor was campaign director
of the Committee for the Re-Election of the
President from July to November 1972.
5 Jeb Stuart Magruder was deputy director
of the Committee for the Re-Election of the
President from May 1971 to November 1972.
planning of the Watergate break-in.
Now, in terms of after March 21, Mr.
Dean first was given the responsibility to
write his own report, but I did not rest
it there. I also had a contact made with
the Attorney General himself, Attorney
General Kleindienst, told him—it was on
the 27th of March-to report to me di-
rectly anything that he found in this par-
ticular area. And I gave the responsibility
to Mr. Ehrlichman on the 29th of March
to continue the investigation that Mr.
Dean was unable to conclude, having
spent a week at Camp David and unable
to finish the report.
Mr. Ehrlichman questioned a number
of people in that period at my direction,
including Mr. Mitchell, and I should also
point out that as far as my own activities
were concerned, I was not leaving it just
to them. I met at great length with Mr.
Ehrlichman, Mr. Haldeman, Mr. Dean,
and Mr. Mitchell on the 22d. I discussed
the whole matter with them. I kept press-
ing for the view that I had had through-
out, that we must get this story out, get the
truth out, whatever and whoever it is
going to hurt, and it was there that Mr.
Mitchell suggested that all the individuals
involved in the White House appear in
an executive session before the Ervin com-
mittee. We never got that far, but at least
that is an indication of the extent of my
own investigation.
TESTIMONY OF FORMER ATTORNEY
GENERAL MITCHELL
[7.] I think we will go to Mr. Lisagor
now [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, you have said re-
peatedly that you tried to get all the facts,
and just now you mentioned the March
22 meeting. Yet former Attorney General
715
