[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
capacity for gathering and analysis of
energy data;
-An Office of Energy Conservation is
being created to seek means for reducing
demands for energy;
-The Department of the Interior has
also strengthened its capabilities for over-
seeing and coordinating a broader range
of energy research and development.
By Executive order [11703], I have
placed authority in the Department of
the Treasury for directing the Oil Policy
Committee. That Committee coordinates
the oil import program and makes rec-
ommendations to me for changes in that
program. The Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury has been designated Chairman
of that Committee.
Through a second Executive order
[11712], effective today, I am strengthen-
ing the capabilities of the Executive Of-
fice of the President to deal with top level
energy policy matters by establishing a
special energy committee composed of
three of my principal advisors. The order
also reaffirms the appointment of a Spe-
cial Consultant, who heads an energy
staff in the Office of the President.
Additionally, a new division of Energy
and Science is being established within
the Office of Management and Budget.
While these executive actions will help,
more fundamental reorganization is
needed. To meet this need, I shall propose
legislation to establish a Department of
Energy and Natural Resources (DENR)
building on the legislation I submitted in
1971, with heightened emphasis on
energy programs.
This new Department would provide
leadership across the entire range of na-
tional energy. It would, in short, be re-
sponsible for administering the national
energy policy detailed in this message.
CONCLUSION
Nations succeed only as they are able to
respond to challenge, and to change when
circumstances and opportunities require
change.
When the first settlers came to America,
they found a land of untold natural
wealth, and this became the cornerstone
of the most prosperous nation in the
world. As we have grown in population, in
prosperity, in industrial capacity, in all
those indices that reflect the constant up-
ward thrust in the American standard of
living, the demands on our natural
resources have also grown.
Today, the energy resources which have
fueled so much of our national growth are
not sufficiently developed to meet the con-
stantly increasing demands which have
been placed upon them. The time has
come to change the way we meet these
demands. The challenge facing us repre-
sents one of the great opportunities of our
time—an opportunity to create an even
stronger domestic economy, a cleaner en-
vironment, and a better life for all our
people.
The proposals I am submitting and the
actions I will take can give us the tools to
do this important job.
The need for action is urgent. I hope
the Congress will act with dispatch on the
proposals I am submitting. But in the final
analysis, the ultimate responsibility does
not rest merely with the Congress or with
this Administration. It rests with all of
us-with government, with industry and
with the individual citizen.
318
