[63] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the opposition forces in that area. Once
a cease-fire is agreed to or adhered to, we
will observe it. Until it is adhered to, we,
of course, will provide support for the
Cambodian Government.
I would not want to indicate that the
prospects in Cambodia are as, shall we
say, positive as those in Laos. But we do
believe that there, too, the withdrawal of
the North Vietnamese forces, which has
been agreed to in our agreement with the
North Vietnamese, from Cambodia is the
key thing.
If those forces are out and if the Cam-
bodians then can determine their own
future, we believe the chances for a viable
cease-fire in Cambodia will be very
substantial.
ECONOMIC AID TO NORTH VIETNAM
[3] Q. Mr. President, could I ask you
whether aid to North Vietnam was a con-
dition of the cease-fire agreement? There
seems to be some confusion about that.
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Lisagor
[Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], it
was not. The provision for assistance to
North Vietnam on the economic side is
one that we believe is in the interest of
creating lasting peace and stability in the
area.
That is a provision which we, of course,
will have to have Congressional support
for. We realize, as I pointed out previously
in the meeting with you ladies and gentle-
men of the press, there is considerable
opposition to aid to North Vietnam. It is
rather reminiscent to me of what I went
through when I first came to Congress
and when you, Mr. Lisagor, were covering
in the Congress.
The opposition to aiding Germany and
aiding Japan-Japan being the most
militaristic and aggressive force in Asia
and Germany being the most militaristic
people in Europe at that time-the op-
position was very substantial.
I remember at that time my own dis-
trict-I polled it as that was the time
when Congressmen were starting the busi-
ness of polling their constituents. And it
was 68 percent against any aid to our
former enemies. I voted for it. I voted for
it, even though it was submitted by a
Democratic President, because I was con-
vinced that the chances for having peace
in Asia and the chance for having peace
in Europe would be considerably increased
if the Germans and the Japanese, the
two strongest, most vigorous people in
those two respective areas, were turned
toward peaceful pursuits, rather than be-
ing left in a position of either hopelessness
which would lead to frustration and an-
other war, or confrontation.
I think that decision was right. I don't
mean that the situation with regard to
North Vietnam is on all fours with it, but
I do say that if the North Vietnamese,
after 25 years of war, continue to think
that their future will only be meaningful
if they engage in continuing war, then
we are going to continue to have war in
that part of the world, and it would not
only threaten South Vietnam but Cam-
bodia and Laos and Thailand, the Philip-
pines, the whole area.
If, on the other hand, the people of
North Vietnam have a stake in peace,
then it can be altogether different. And
so we believe that once the Congress, both
Democrats and Republicans, considers
this matter-and we want them to con-
sider it and give their judgment on it-
that they will decide, as they did 25 years
ago, based on that precedent and what
happened then, that the interests of peace
152
