[194] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
to the market and will provide relief
against high food prices. But meanwhile,
we are paving in higher food prices for
the combination of limited supply and
greater worldwide demand.
Therefore, another key element of the
package I announced on June 13 was a
request to the Congress for new and more
flexible authority to impose export con-
trols on goods that are in short supply in
the United States, so that we will not price
these out of the American market by send-
ing them abroad in search of higher prices
caused by shortages and inflation in other
countries.
Acting under existing authority, I have
imposed controls on exports of soybean
products, which are especially critical to
the solution of the feed grain shortage and,
therefore, to bringing down the price of
meat and dairy products. Prices of soy-
bean products have already dropped in
response to this action. However, the more
flexible authority I have requested from
the Congress is still necessary. I again urge
swift and urgent action by the Congress
to provide this authority.
The problems of scarcity that make
these export controls necessary are tem-
porary problems. Therefore, I am con-
fident that the need for export controls
on agricultural products will also be only
temporary. When this year's crops become
available in the fall, we expect to be able
to restore international access to these
products. During the brief period when
controls are necessary, we shall do all that
we can to ensure that our traditional cus-
tomers suffer as little as possible, and we
shall keep before us our continuing goal of
progress toward more international trade,
rather than less.
There is one point this afternoon more
than any other that I want to emphasize:
Controls can help in the short run, but in
the long run, dependence on controls
would destroy the economy and demolish
our prosperity.
In the long run, the one thing-and
the only thing that will keep prices down
is sufficient supply to meet the demand,
coupled with responsible fiscal and mone-
tary policies. Controls will not give us
that supply; neither will they substitute
for fiscal and monetary discipline.
That is why we have taken vigorous
measures to encourage an increase in the
supply of key commodities. We have been
trying to turn farm policies around-turn
them from the old way of keeping farm in-
comes up by restricting supply and raising
prices to a new policy of keeping farm
incomes up, but by increasing supply and
expanding markets. We have been trying
to sell unnecessary stockpiles of industrial
materials more rapidly. We have initiated
a trade policy which would enable us to
import more of the things others produce
most efficiently, while exporting more of
the things we produce most efficiently.
And we are taking measures to raise
productivity.
But whatever we do to increase supplies
can be overwhelmed unless we also keep
the expansion of demand within sustain-
able limits. That is why we must sternly
resist not only wasteful Government
spending but even worthwhile Govern-
ment spending that we cannot afford. The
battle against higher prices begins with
the battle of the Federal budget. I will,
therefore, continue to support every move
to maintain fiscal responsibility and to
resist every move to abandon it.
The Federal Reserve's policy of mone-
tary restraint is also essential in checking
634
