Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
ticularly vital to the economic well-being
of those living in nations that depend sub-
stantially on foreign trade. Exchange rates
have a major impact on the international
competitiveness of nations and thus affect
the jobs and incomes of their people.
When exchange rates are seriously out of
line, the prospect of abrupt change in cur-
rency markets creates uncertainty, dis-
rupts trade, and adversely affects the do-
mestic economies of all nations. When
one nation believes that another's adjust-
ment or failure to adjust damages its in-
terests, serious international friction can
result.
Too little attention was paid to adjust-
ment under the Bretton Woods System.
Nations put a high premium on holding
their exchange rates fixed. Remembering
the dollar shortage of the early postwar
period, many countries came to feel more
secure with substantial surpluses and were
reluctant to undertake adjustments to re-
duce them. Even after they had achieved
large payments surpluses and growing re-
serves, some governments continued to
help certain export industries and ineffi-
cient domestic industries. Yet precisely
because of their large surpluses and re-
serves, balance of payments adjustments
should have been made. Once the psy-
chology of building surpluses and empha-
sizing exports had taken firm root,
countries were concerned with the domes-
tic repercussions of changing course.
There were other deficiencies in the
system:
-there was no agreed way to determine
when an imbalance should be
corrected;
-there were too few means to induce
surplus nations to reduce imbalances;
-there were too few methods used to
adjust imbalances. In the indus-
trialized countries, domestic fiscal
and monetary policies were consid-
ered the most appropriate methods,
but we and others have learned that
such measures are not always ade-
quate or feasible.
Eventually these deficiencies produced
intolerable pressures. For a time after
World War II the world benefited from
American deficits. Others needed our dol-
lars to restore their liquidity, to buy our
goods, and to finance expanding trade.
When our deficits grew large, other coun-
tries urged us to bring our balance of pay-
ments into equilibrium and to stop using
what they saw as the "special privilege” of
having our trading partners hold dollars
indefinitely. But our ability to adjust uni-
laterally was severely limited. Moreover,
the effects of doing so by a change in ex-
change rates, when most transactions were
valued in dollars and most reserves were
held in dollars, were almost certain to be
disruptive. Ironically, countries accumu-
lating dollars they did not want were
reluctant to revalue their own currencies
for fear of losing their competitive
advantage.
By August 1971 dollars held abroad
far exceeded U.S. reserve assets. Some
countries with large dollar reserves con-
tinued to maintain substantial balance of
payments surpluses. The world became in-
creasingly skeptical of the ability of the
United States to convert outstanding dol-
lars into other reserve assets and doubted
the ability of other countries to maintain
the exchange value of the dollar at its
then current rate. As confidence waned,
the rush to sell dollars and buy other cur-
rencies accelerated. The stability of the
world's economic system was at stake and
the need for reform was clear.
The history of the adjustment problem
469
