[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
basis, today sales make up by far the ma-
jor portion of the program.
In 1966 the largest military assistance
grants went to the Republic of Korea,
Turkey, the Republic of Vietnam, the
Republic of China, Greece, and Iran. In
1974, in contrast, Iran will purchase all
military equipment, paying fully for
everything received. Greece and the Re-
public of China will receive no grant
materiel, and both are turning increas-
ingly to cash and credit sales. The se-
curity requirements of South Korea and
Turkey continue to require grant assist-
ance, but both are moving toward in-
creased use of credits as their economies
continue to expand. The success of our
programs in helping South Vietnam and
South Korea build capable forces of their
own has permitted us to withdraw all our
forces from South Vietnam and 20,000
men from South Korea. These are two of
the most significant demonstrations of
how Security Assistance is precisely what
enables allies to take up more of the re-
sponsibility for their own defense.
The assistance of the United States can-
not be effective unless an ally is willing
and able to mobilize its own people and
resources for its national defense. No
country can escape responsibility for its
own future. None of our friends would
wish to do so. The encouragement, coun-
sel, and assistance we provide can make
a crucial difference to their success.
RESOURCES FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE
Managing Modernization. In today's
conditions, maintaining modern forces at
adequate levels is a major challenge. Gen-
eral purpose forces now take three times
as much of the defense budget as strategic
forces. Yet the Soviet Union has made
significant qualitative improvements in
conventional forces, while many of our
essential programs have been deferred be-
cause of more pressing Vietnam require-
ments.
A major modernization effort is under-
way to provide our forces with adequate
weapons for the decade ahead. Our na-
tional technological base is one of the
foundations of our national security. But
the continual escalation of weapons costs
and complexity limits our ability to exploit
all the latest technical advances. Even
with adjustments for inflation, weapons
today cost, on the average, two to three
times more than those ones they replace.
Sophisticated equipment is often more
difficult to repair. Complexity frequently
results in higher operating costs and lower
reliability. These trends make it difficult
to replace older weapons on a one-for-one
basis. But the higher performance of new
systems does not always compensate for
the severe reduction of flexibility caused
by fewer numbers.
This cost problem is most acute with
respect to tactical aircraft. New first-line
aircraft are four to five times more costly
than the older planes being replaced, pri-
marily because of their sophisticated elec-
tronics and fire control systems. The same
problem arises in modern ship and ground
force systems.
The long lead time for new weapons
development has far-reaching implica-
tions. It is therefore imperative that pro-
posed programs provide sufficient im-
provements to justify their expense, and
that once adopted they do not exceed
planned costs or fail to perform as in-
tended. Unless we improve management
performance in this area, we simply will
not be able to maintain the minimum
force levels necessary to meet the needs of
488
