Richard Nixon, 1973
May 11 [149]
poor, when properly provided, is one of
the most constructive ways to help them to
help themselves. During this period, we
have also learned that justice is served far
better and differences are settled more
rationally within the system than on the
streets. Now is the time to make legal
services an integral part of our judicial
system.
When I asked the Congress in 1971 to
create an independent Legal Services
Corporation, I said that my proposal had
three major objectives. Those same ob-
jectives apply to my proposal today:
"First, that the corporation itself be
structured and financed so that it will be
assured of independence; second, that
the lawyers in the program have full free-
dom to protect the best interests of their
clients in keeping with the Canons of
Ethics and the high standards of the
legal profession; and third, that the Na-
tion be encouraged to continue giving
the program the support it needs in order
to become a permanent and vital part
the American system of justice."
of
Many of the features of the new legis-
lation are also similar to those in the 1971
proposal:
-The corporation would be nonprofit
and governed by a board of 11 members
appointed by the President, with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate. No more
than six members could be of the same
political affiliation, and a majority would
have to be attorneys.
-The corporation would be authorized
to make grants or enter into contracts
with individuals, partnerships, firms, or-
ganizations, and corporations, as well as
with State and local governments for the
purpose of providing legal assistance to
eligible clients.
-The corporation would be authorized
to undertake research on the delivery of
legal services and to serve as a clearing-
house for information on such services.
-No funds provided by the corporation
could be used with respect to criminal
proceedings.
-While engaged in legal assistance activ-
ities, attorneys would be barred from
participating in political activities and
from encouraging or participating in
strikes, boycotts, picketing, and various
forms of civil disturbance.
In addition to these provisions, the new
legislation contains several features which
I believe represent an improvement over
my 1971 proposal:
-A nine-member advisory council would
be established in each State, to be ap-
pointed by the Governor or, if he failed
to act, by the national board. The State
advisory council would maintain a con-
tinuing review of all legal service activi-
ties within its State and would report any
program abuses to the national board.
-Anyone could qualify for legal as-
sistance under the program so long as his
income were less than 200 percent of the
poverty level and his lack of income did
not result from a refusal to seek or accept
a job.
-The corporation would also be charged
with responsibility for conducting a study
of alternative ways of delivering legal
services, such as judicare, vouchers, pre-
paid legal insurance, and contracts with
law firms. A report of this study would be
prepared and submitted to the President
and the Congress no later than June 30,
1974.
I firmly believe that this bill merits the
support of all who believe in a legal serv-
ices program which gives the poor the
help they need, which is free and inde-
pendent of political pressures, and which
31-870 O
-
75-37
527
