Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 8 [73]
lences on the deaths of Ambassador Cleo A.
Noel, Jr., and Deputy Chief of Mission George
Curtis Moore.
Prior to his remarks, the President had at-
tended a working luncheon at the Department
of State where he held a discussion with Depart-
ment officials on ways of combating interna-
tional terrorism.
72 Remarks to Recipients of the Federal Woman's
Award. March 7, 1973
WE congratulate you.
The one thing I was going to say to Pat
Hitt and to Anne Armstrong ยน is that this
event allows us to make some, shall we say,
claims that should be widely reported, and
that is that the number of women in top
positions in Government-that is, other
than simply the positions that usually have
been available to them-has quadrupled
in the past 4 years.
We think that is quite a record, and if
we can, in the next 4 years, quadruple
again, that would be by a factor of 16 over
the period of 8 years.
Now, that is a very, very high goal. The
problem we have here is not so much find-
ing the jobs. Many times it is the problem
of finding women who are willing to and
who want to take the job, because the need
for top personnel in the Government is
ยน Patricia Reilly Hitt, Assistant Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare for Community
and Field Services, and chairman of the board
of trustees of the Federal Woman's Award;
and Anne L. Armstrong, Counsellor to the
President.
always there for the top people.
So, we would hope that your awards will
lead others to go out and do likewise,
knowing that they can go to the top. And
if you have any trouble going to the top
and you feel that you are being discrimi-
nated against, you let me know. [Laughter]
I am sure you will.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:11 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
The six recipients of the Federal Woman's
Award were: Bernice L. Bernstein, Director,
Region II, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare; Marguerite S. Chang, research
chemist, Naval Ordnance Systems Command,
Department of the Navy; Janet Hart, Assistant
Director, Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System; Marilyn E. Jacox, research chemist,
National Bureau of Standards, Department of
Commerce; Isabella L. Karle, research physi-
cist, Office of Naval Research, Department of
the Navy; and Marjorie R. Townsend, project
manager, Small Astronomy Satellite, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. They
received their awards at a banquet in their
honor at the Shoreham Hotel on March 6.
73 State of the Union Message to the Congress on
Community Development.
To the Congress of the United States:
Today, in this fifth report to the Con-
gress on the State of the Union, I want to
discuss the quality of life in our cities and
March 8, 1973
towns and set forth new directions for
community development in America.
Not long ago we became accustomed to
the constant rhetorical drumbeat of the
171
