Richard Nixon, 1973
June 18 [178]
but above all, on this, which is a trip of
such great significance to our two peoples
and to the world, we trust that at the
end, not only the Soviet people and the
American people but the people of the
world will look on this event as a great
step forward in the goal we all want: not
only peace between our two countries but
peace and progress for all the people of
the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
General Secretary Brezhnev was given a formal
welcome with full military honors. The General
Secretary responded in Russian, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter. The
welcoming ceremony was broadcast live on na-
tionwide radio and television in the United
States and in the Soviet Union.
The General Secretary's 'translated remarks
follow:
Esteemed Mr. President, esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen:
I am happy to have a new meeting with you,
Mr. President, and I thank you for the warm
words addressed to us, representatives of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
This is my first visit to your country, my
first direct acquaintance with America and the
American people. We have made a long jour-
ney from Moscow to Washington. Our two
capitals are separated by over 6,000 miles.
But international politics has its own con-
cepts of relativity not covered by Einstein's
theory. The distances between our countries are
shrinking, not only because we travel aboard
modern aircraft following a well-charted route
but also because we share one great goal, which
is to ensure a lasting peace for the peoples of
our countries and to strengthen security on our
planet.
One year ago, in Moscow, we jointly took a
major step in that direction. The results of
our first meeting laid a good and reliable foun-
dation for peaceful relations between our two
countries.
But even then we both took the view that,
building on that foundation, we should move
further ahead. During the past year a good
beginning has been made in that sense. And
now we regard our visit to the United States
and the forthcoming meetings with you as an
expression of our common determination to
make a new contribution to what was jointly
initiated.
I and my comrades, who have come with
me, are prepared to work hard to ensure that
the talks we will have with you, Mr. President,
and with other American statesmen, justify the
hopes of our peoples and serve the interests of a
peaceful future for all mankind.
For activities in connection with General
Secretary Brezhnev's visit which are not re-
flected in items printed in this volume, see
Appendix B entries for June 16-24.
178 Toasts of the President and General Secretary Brezhnev
of the U.S.S.R. June 18,
Mr. General Secretary, members of the
Soviet delegation, and all of our distin-
guished guests and friends:
As all of these lights were turned on,
the General Secretary, with his delightful
sense of humor, said, "At the end of the
dinner, Mr. President, you decided to fry
our guests."
As all of you came through the receiv-
ing line tonight, the General Secretary
1973
noted that you came from all parts of the
country, from both political parties, from
business, from labor, from all segments of
our society. And the question that he
asked on several occasions was whether
the individuals concerned supported the
new initiatives with regard to Soviet-
American friendship and cooperation
which we have undertaken. And I would
like to say to our very distinguished guest
595
