Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 31 [23]
REA [Rural Electrification Administra-
tion]—and Miss McClendon [Sarah Mc-
Clendon, Sarah McClendon News Serv-
ice], because you are somewhat of an
expert on this-I have always supported
REA because I used to represent the old
12th District. When I lived there and
represented it, it was primarily agricul-
tural, orange groves; now it is primarily
people, subdivided. But as one who came
from that area, I naturally had a great in-
terest in this matter of REA and the rest,
and supported it.
But what I have found is that when I
first voted for REA, 80 percent of the
loans went for the purpose of rural de-
velopment and getting electricity to farms.
Now 80 percent of this 2 percent money
goes for country clubs and dilettantes, for
example, and others who can afford liv-
ing in the country. I am not for 2 percent
money for people who can afford 5 per-
cent or 7.
RELATIONS WITH EUROPE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you and people
in your Administration have been quoted
as calling 1973 the year of Europe. Could
you tell us exactly what that means to you,
and specifically, will you be making a
trip to Europe in the next month or so?
THE PRESIDENT. I will not be making
any trips to Europe certainly in the first
half of this year. Whether I can make any
trips later on remains to be seen. As a
matter of fact, so that all of you can plan
not to take shots, I plan no trips whatever
in the first half of this year outside the
United States. The meeting with Presi-
dent Thieu, if it does work out, at a time
mutually convenient, will take place some-
time in the spring.
Now, the fact that I don't take a trip
to Europe does not mean that this will not
be a period when there will be great at-
tention paid to Europe, because it just
happens as we complete the long and
difficult war in Vietnam, we now must
turn to the problems of Europe. We have
been to the People's Republic of China.
We have been to the Soviet Union. We
have been paying attention to the prob-
lems of Europe, but now those problems
will be put on the front burner.
There is the problem of trade, for ex-
ample. There is the problem of the Euro-
pean Security Conference which we must
discuss. There is the problem of mutual
balanced force reduction. All of this will
require consultation with our European
allies. And in that connection, that is one
of the reasons that the Heath visit 2 is so
enormously important. I am spending
more time with Mr. Heath than I have
with some other visitors. I mean by that
not that time proves everything, but not
only will we have the usual dinners and
luncheons and so forth, but I am spend-
ing a full day with him at Camp David
because I want to get his thoughts about
what the position of the United States and
our European friends should be with
regard to the European Security Confer-
ence, with regard to the MBFR [mutual
and balanced force reductions], and of
course, what the position of the United
States should be and the new, broader
European Community should be in this
period when we can either become com-
petitors in a constructive way or where
we can engage in economic confrontation
that could lead to bitterness and which
would hurt us both.
2 See Item 25.
57
