Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [64]
the White House Staff may have, we will
make arrangements to provide that infor-
mation, but members of the White House
Staff, in that position at least, cannot be
brought before a Congressional committee
in a formal hearing for testimony. I stand
on the same position there that every Pres-
ident has stood on.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, on that particular
point, if the Counsel was involved-
THE PRESIDENT. He always gets two.
[Laughter]
Q. —if the Counsel was involved in
an illegal or improper act and the prima
facie case came to light, then would
you
change the rules relative to the White
House Counsel?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not expect that
to happen, and if it should happen, I
would have to answer that question at
that point.
Let me say, too, that I know that, since
you are on your feet, Clark [Mollenhoff],
that you had asked about the executive
privilege statement, and we will have that
available toward the end of next week or
the first of the following week, for sure,
because obviously, the Ervin committee is
interested in that statement, and that will
answer, I think, some of the questions with
regard to how information can be ob-
tained from a member of the White House
Staff, but consistent with executive
privilege.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you again.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirtieth news confer-
ence was held at 11:08 a.m. in the Briefing
Room at the White House on Friday, March 2,
1973.
64 Remarks on Receiving the "Heart-of-the-Year” Award.
March 2, 1973
DR. PAUL N. YU [president of the Amer-
ican Heart Association]. Mr. President,
each year the American Heart Associa-
tion has been privileged to honor a dis-
tinguished American with the "Heart-of-
the-Year" Award. For the past 4 years,
Mr. President, you have graciously con-
sented to present the award in our name.
This year we would like very much to
have you keep it.
Mr. President, we are really extremely
pleased and proud to present the 1973
"Heart-of-the-Year" Award to you in
recognition of your consistent support
and encouragement of the voluntary ac-
tion in the health field. Your support has
made it possible for us to expand the role
of the volunteers and the voluntary health
agency to fight the number one health
problem-heart and blood diseases.
As you know, the goal of the Ameri-
can Heart Association is to conquer heart
and blood vessel diseases through the sup-
port of cardiovascular research, educa-
tion, and commingled services. We are
very confident that with your sustained
guidance, support, and encouragement
we will achieve our goals.
So, Mr. President, please accept this
award as a small token of our great
appreciation.
The citation reads: "1973 Heart-of-
the-Year Award. Presented by the Ameri-
can Heart Association to President Rich-
ard M. Nixon for his consistent support
and encouragement of voluntary programs
161
