Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 16 [300]
are now working more closely in a wide
range of areas-exchanging reactor sci-
entists, sharing research findings in heart
disease, cancer, and environmental health,
cooperating in nearly 30 environmental
projects, collaborating in the use of com-
puters in management and planning joint
probes into space. Cultural groups and
performing artists are moving between the
two countries in increasing numbers.
Similar exchanges are occurring with the
People's Republic of China. In the past
year, Chinese table tennis players, phy-
sicians, scientists and acrobats have visited
the United States, and businessmen, doc-
tors, journalists, educators, scientists and
scholars from this country have gone to
China.
Scientific, educational and cultural ex-
changes between the United States and
scores of other countries are also steadily
increasing, under both official and un-
official auspices. These exchanges have
helped to open new levels of dialogue with
present and prospective leaders in much
of the world.
A unique feature of the exchange pro-
gram and a major source of its vitality
through the years has been the enthusi-
astic involvement of thousands of private
individuals, associations and businesses in
its activities. They have voluntarily given
a great deal of their own resources and
time and effort to these programs and have
thus made the exchange program truly
representative of the people of the United
States. I gratefully salute those who have
taken part in this highly effective form
of people-to-people diplomacy.
All of these elements are discussed in
greater detail in this Annual Report and I
am pleased to commend this document to
the thoughtful attention of the Congress.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
October 16, 1973.
NOTE: The report, entitled "International
Educational and Cultural Exchange, 1972: A
Human Contribution to the Structure of Peace"
(25 pp. plus addenda), was published by the
Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs,
Department of State.
300 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Report
of the Advisory Council on Intergovernmental
Personnel Policy. October 16, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the Intergovernmental
Personnel Act of 1970, I hereby transmit
the first report of the Advisory Council on
Intergovernmental Personnel Policy.
The members of the Advisory Council
include elected public officials, career ad-
ministrators, labor union leaders, and pub-
lic administration scholars-people from
local, State and Federal governments and
from private life. I am sure you will share
my pride in the Council and my appreci-
ation for their dedicated effort toward
improving the ability of government at all
levels to respond to the people's needs.
It is noteworthy that this first report
of the Council is submitted in the 90th
anniversary year of both the Federal and
the New York State merit systems, for in
many ways the Intergovernmental Per-
sonnel Act of 1970 reaffirms as public
policy those merit concepts framed in the
Civil Service Act of 1883.
In this report, the Advisory Council has
881
