[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
nations in the area was essential. The dan-
ger of inadvertent great power confronta-
tion over the Middle East was reduced by
the Moscow Summit, and also by a deci-
sion by the Government of Egypt in July
to request the withdrawal of most Soviet
military personnel from Egypt.
American policy has sought in other
ways to promote stability in the Middle
East and to preserve the possibility of
solution by negotiation rather than by
force of arms. During the September 1970
crisis in Jordan, the United States acted
firmly to deter a wider war and dampen a
dangerous situation. Throughout the pe-
riod, this Administration continued its
established policy of maintaining a mili-
tary balance in the Middle East. I have
said many times that an arms balance is
essential to stability in that area--but
that it alone cannot bring peace. The
search for a negotiated settlement must
continue.
The ceasefire reestablished in 1970 at
American initiative continues to this day,
and remains essential to any hope for a
peaceful settlement of the Arab-Israeli
conflict. The cessation of organized fight-
ing has not only saved hundreds and per-
haps thousands of lives; it has also pre-
served a climate that would permit
negotiation. But the ceasefire will neces
sarily remain uneasy unless the hope for
peace can be sustained by active
negotiations.
A serious threat to the ceasefire and to
the prospects for any political solution is
the bitterness engendered by the mount-
ing spiral of terrorism and reprisal. Ter-
rorist acts took on a new and horrible
dimension last year with the shootings at
Israel's Lod Airport in the spring, where a
number of Americans lost their lives, and
the murder of Israeli athletes at the
Munich Olympics in September. This was
followed during the fall by a series of
Israeli attacks on Lebanese and Syrian
military installations as well as on Pales-
tinian guerrilla bases in Lebanon and
Syria. A Libyan civilian airliner was
downed by Israeli aircraft while straying
over the Sinai in February 1973. The fol-
lowing month, terrorists murdered two
American diplomats and a Belgian diplo-
mat held hostage in Khartoum. In April
1973, terrorists attacked Israeli targets in
Cyprus, and Israel attacked headquarters
and installations of fedayeen organizations
in and around Beirut, killing three promi-
nent Palestinian militants.
International terrorism is not exclusively
an Arab-Israeli problem; it is an inter-
national problem, which the United States
has made a major international effort to
combat. But a generation of frustration
among displaced Palestinians has made
the Middle East a particular focal point
for such violence.
The Situation Today. America's objec-
tive in the Middle East is still to help
move the Arab-Israeli dispute from con-
frontation to negotiation and then toward
conditions of peace as envisioned in UN
Security Council Resolution 242.
But a solution cannot be imposed by
the outside powers on unwilling govern-
ments. If we tried, the parties would feel
no stake in observing its terms, and the
outside powers would be engaged indefi-
nitely in enforcing them. A solution can
last only if the parties commit themselves
to it directly. Serious negotiation will be
possible, however, only if a decision is
made on each side that the issues must be
finally resolved by a negotiated settlement
rather than by the weight or threat of
force. This is more than a decision on the
mechanics of negotiation; it is a decision
448
