Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
gram distortions necessitated my veto
in March; and
-A constructive measure that would
raise the minimum wage in light of
the cost of living increases since the
last such adjustment in 1968. Such
legislation is essential to replace an
earlier minimum wage bill which I
felt compelled to veto last week be-
cause it would have hurt low-income
workers and would have added to in-
flationary pressures in the economy.
PENSION REFORM
For most Americans, there are now two
principal ways of providing for retirement.
The first is the social security system,
which is the largest system of its kind in
the world and one of the most effective.
The second is the system of private pen-
sion plans. Those plans now cover some 30
million workers and pay benefits to an-
other 6 million retired persons.
As private pension plans have devel-
oped, certain flaws have also become ap-
parent. The Federal Government should
now act to help correct them. I first asked
the Congress to enact pension reform legis-
lation in 1971 and, after 16 months of ad-
ditional study and hearings, I submitted
two new bills to the Congress in the spring
of this year.
One of these bills, the Retirement Bene-
fits Tax Act, would give each worker
greater rights in his pension plan and re-
quire that more money be put into it so
that he will be more fully protected if he
leaves his job before retirement. Unlike
some of the alternative bills, it would also
maintain strong encouragement for other
employers to set up pension plans—an im-
portant provision since about half of the
total private labor force is not covered at
the present time.
The second bill, the Employee Benefits
Protection Act, would establish tighter
fiduciary standards for the administration
of the more than $160 billion now in-
vested in private pension and welfare
funds. The unscrupulous activity which
has sometimes characterized the adminis-
tration of these funds in the past con-
vinces me that the Federal Government
should play a watchdog role.
I am aware that several other pension
proposals have support on Capitol Hill. A
reasonable compromise seems in order,
and my Administration is anxious to work
with the Congress to achieve agreement
in the months ahead.
HEALTH LEGISLATION
In the field of health care and medical
protection, the Administration remains
committed to a broad national health
strategy which will eliminate financial
barriers to needed medical help for every
American family and will open to all our
people the promise of longer, fuller lives
with increasing freedom from disease. We
have nearly doubled Federal outlays for
health since I took office, and we have
been mobilizing to conquer cancer and to
fight other particularly cruel enemies such
as heart disease, and drug abuse.
My number one priority in this field
over the long term remains the building
of a balanced health insurance partner-
ship in which the public and private sec-
tors join to bring the costs of quality care
within every family's reach. However, the
present crowded calendars of key Con-
gressional committees make it seem more
likely to me that the real push for this
775
