Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
that peace is worth compromise. It should
be possible to enter such negotiations
without expecting to settle all differences
at once, without preconditions, and with-
out conceding principles of honor or jus-
tice.
Two negotiating tracks have been dis-
cussed. One is Ambassador Jarring's effort
to help the parties reach agreement on an
overall peace settlement. The second is
the offer of the United States to help get
talks started on an interim agreement as
a first step to facilitate negotiations on an
overall settlement.
A persistent impasse, which is substan-
tive as well as procedural, has blocked
both of these approaches. It is rooted
primarily in the opposing positions of the
two sides on the issue of the territories.
Israel has insisted that its borders should
be the subject of negotiations and that
substantial changes in the pre-1967 lines
are necessary. Egypt, while stating its
readiness to enter into a peace agreement
with Israel, has insisted that before it
could enter negotiations, even on an in-
terim agreement, Israel must commit it-
self to withdraw to the pre-1967 lines.
Jordan has also made clear its commit-
ment to a peaceful settlement with Israel,
but insists on the return of the occupied
West Bank without substantial border
changes and on restoration of a sovereign
position in the Arab part of Jerusalem.
Recognizing the difficulty of breaking
the impasse in one negotiating step-of
reconciling Arab concern for sovereignty
with Israeli concern for security-the
United States has favored trying to
achieve agreement first on an interim
step. Since both Egypt and Israel asked
us in 1971 to help them negotiate such
an interim agreement, we proposed in-
direct talks between representatives of
the two sides brought together at the same
location. In February 1972, Israel agreed
to enter talks on this basis; Egypt has ex-
pressed reservations about any negotia-
tions in the absence of prior Israeli com-
mitment to total withdrawal from Sinai
in an overall settlement.
The dilemmas are evident. Egypt's wil-
lingness to take new steps, for example,
is inhibited by the fear that further con-
cessions could erode the principle of sover-
eignty without assuring that Israel is in-
terested in reaching agreement or will
make appropriate concessions in return.
Israel's incentive to be forthcoming de-
pends on a difficult basic judgment
whether its giving up the physical buffer
of territory would be compensated by less
tangible assurances of its security-such
as Arab peace commitments, demilitariza-
tion and other security arrangements, ex-
ternal guarantees, and a transformed and
hopefully more secure political environ-
ment in the Middle East. Urging flexibil-
ity on both parties in the abstract seems
futile. Neither appears willing, without
assurance of a satisfactory quid pro quo,
to offer specific modifications of basic posi-
tions sufficient to get a concrete negotiat-
ing process started.
A step-by-step approach still seems
most practical, but we fully recognize that
one step by itself cannot bring peace. First,
there is a relationship between any initial
step toward peace and steps which are
to follow toward a broader settlement. We
are open-minded on how that relationship
might be established in a negotiating proc-
ess, and on what role the United States
might play. But the relationship cannot be
ignored. Second, all important aspects of
the Arab-Israeli conflict must be ad-
dressed at some stage, including the legiti-
mate interests of the Palestinians. Imple-
449
