Richard Nixon, 1973
May 22 [162]
162 Statements About the Watergate Investigations.
May 22, 1973
RECENT news accounts growing out
of testimony in the Watergate investi-
gations have given grossly misleading im-
pressions of many of the facts, as they
relate both to my own role and to certain
unrelated activities involving national
security.
Already, on the basis of second- and
third-hand hearsay testimony by persons
either convicted or themselves under in-
vestigation in the case, I have found my-
self accused of involvement in activities
I never heard of until I read about them
in news accounts.
These impressions could also lead to
a serious misunderstanding of those na-
tional security activities which, though
totally unrelated to Watergate, have be-
come entangled in the case. They could
lead to further compromise of sensitive
national security information.
I will not abandon my responsibilities.
I will continue to do the job I was elected
to do.
In the accompanying statement, I have
set forth the facts as I know them as
they relate to my own role.
With regard to the specific allegations
that have been made, I can and do state
categorically:
I. I had no prior knowledge of the
Watergate operation.
2. I took no part in, nor was I aware of,
any subsequent efforts that may have
been made to cover up Watergate.
3. At no time did I authorize any offer
of executive clemency for the Water-
gate defendants, nor did I know of
any such offer.
4. I did not know, until the time of my
own investigation, of any effort to
provide the Watergate defendants
with funds.
5. At no time did I attempt, or did I
authorize others to attempt, to im-
plicate the CIA in the Watergate
matter.
6. It was not until the time of my own
investigation that I learned of the
break-in at the office of Mr. Ells-
berg's psychiatrist, and I specifically
authorized the furnishing of this in-
formation to Judge Byrne.
7. I neither authorized nor encouraged
subordinates to engage in illegal or
improper campaign tactics.
In the accompanying statement, I have
sought to provide the background that
may place recent allegations in perspec-
tive. I have specifically stated that execu-
tive privilege will not be invoked as to
any testimony concerning possible crimi-
nal conduct or discussions of possible
criminal conduct, in the matters under
investigation. I want the public to learn
the truth about Watergate and those
guilty of any illegal actions brought to
justice.
Allegations surrounding the Watergate
affair have so escalated that I feel a fur-
ther statement from the President is re-
quired at this time.
A climate of sensationalism has devel-
oped in which even second- or third-hand
hearsay charges are headlined as fact and
repeated as fact.
Important national security operations
which themselves had no connection with
Watergate have become entangled in the
case.
As a result, some national security in-
547
