Richard Nixon, 1973
June 25 [185]
and who take a correct view and correctly ap-
preciate our policies and our line of conduct
and who, in thus doing so, are helping us in
our work. And I, therefore, trust that the
peaceful policies pursued by the President and
by the United States Government under him
will be supported by the people.
It is a policy aimed at ensuring and strength-
ening peace, cooperation, and security in the
interests of our two countries, but also, in the
interests of all other nations, big and small,
throughout the world, and for this, I'wish to
express my appreciation also.
I ask all of your colleagues, Mr. President,
and mine, to draw up closer to us so that we
could all be in this historic picture together.
185 Joint Communique Following Discussions With
General Secretary Brezhnev.
AT THE invitation of the President of
the United States, Richard Nixon, ex-
tended during his official visit to the
USSR in May 1972, and in accordance
with a subsequent agreement, General
Secretary of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union,
Mr. Leonid I. Brezhnev, paid an official
visit to the United States from June 18
to June 25. Mr. Brezhnev was accom-
panied by A. A. Gromyko, Minister of
Foreign Affairs of the USSR, Member of
the Politbureau of the Central Committee,
CPSU; N. S. Patolichev, Minister of For-
eign Trade; B. P. Bugayev, Minister of
Civil Aviation; G. E. Tsukanov and A. M.
Aleksandrov, Assistants to the General
Secretary of the Central Committee,
CPSU; L. M. Zamyatin, General Director
of TASS; E. I. Chazov, Deputy Minister
of Public Health of the USSR; G. M.
Korniyenko, Member of the Collegium of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
USSR; G. A. Arbatov, Director of the
USA Institute of the Academy of Sciences
of the USSR.
President Nixon and General Secretary
Brezhnev held thorough and constructive
discussions on the progress achieved in the
development of US-Soviet relations and
on a number of major international prob-
lems of mutual interest.
June 25, 1973
Also taking part in the conversations
held in Washington, Camp David, and
San Clemente, were:
On the American side William P.
Rogers, Secretary of State; George P.
Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury; Dr.
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs.
On the Soviet side A. A. Gromyko,
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR,
Member of the Politbureau of the Central
Committee, CPSU; A. F. Dobrynin,
Soviet Ambassador to the USA; N. S.
Patolichev, Minister of Foreign Trade;
B. P. Bugayev, Minister of Civil Aviation;
A. M. Aleksandrov and G. E. Tsukanov,
Assistants to the General Secretary of the
Central Committee, CPSU; G. M. Kor-
niyenko, Member of the Collegium of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the USSR.
I. THE GENERAL STATE OF US-SOVIET
RELATIONS
Both Sides expressed their mutual satis-
faction with the fact that the American-
Soviet summit meeting in Moscow in
May 1972 and the joint decisions taken
there have resulted in a substantial ad-
vance in the strengthening of peaceful re-
lations between the USA and the USSR
and have created the basis for the further
611
