[114] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I probed further, and I found that,
as a matter of fact, Mrs. Lee, our distin-
guished guest, did receive a first at Cam-
bridge Law School. Her husband did also,
but like a very loyal wife, she said, “He
had a first with a star after his name, and
that is something very special."
But the purpose of that is simply to say
that we are very happy here to welcome
our distinguished guests because of their
personal qualities, because of their great
ability, and because of the leadership they
have given to their own country.
I would only add this: In the talks that
I have had with the Prime Minister, in
1967 when we first met-at a time that
neither he nor I had any idea that we
would be meeting again today in this
place--but in any event, in 1967 when
we first met, on the other two occasions,
what has impressed me enormously has
been his profound understanding, not just
of his own country and not just of South-
east Asia, of which his own country is a
very important part, but of the entire
world scene. In other words, we honor
tonight and we welcome here a world
statesman of the first rank, who has con-
tributed, with his intelligence, with his
understanding, to all of us, in helping us
to develop the kinds of policies that will
maintain a world in which freedom can
survive for larger countries like the United
States and for smaller countries like
Singapore.
There is no more articulate and intelli-
gent spokesman for what I would call free
societies in the world than the Prime
Minister of Singapore, and for that reason
I know all of you will want to join me in
raising your glasses to Prime Minister Lee.
Prime Minister Lee.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 pm. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, the President met with
Prime Minister Lee at the White House.
Prime Minister Lee responded to the Presi-
dent's toast as follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is always a mild embarrassment when I
receive such lavish praise. They say I run Singa-
pore well. Well, it makes me worried because
I am away so long and it is still running. It
disproves the thesis that I am the man that
makes it run.
It is a great pleasure and a privilege, as you
have mentioned, Mr. President, to have shared
several occasions we have had together, par-
ticularly that memorable one when you were
just an American citizen and not the President
of the United States.
My wife and I would like to thank Mrs.
Nixon and you for the great warmth and
friendship with which we are being received
and for this dinner which you have arranged in
our honor.
Perhaps it may be appropriate if I were to
mention that when you were just an American
citizen, we could speak more candidly, even
brusquely, and now the courtesies of office some-
times have to muffle some of the rougher edges.
But few, I think, could have dared to pre-
dict the tenacity with which you pursued your
declared policies of negotiations with the great
Communist powers instead of confrontation.
Even fewer would have dared predict the hope-
ful results that have emerged. But none could
have dared to hope that even once you carried
on these negotiations with both Peking and
Moscow, you steadily, systematically, disen-
gaged American troops from Vietnam in such
an orderly fashion that, instead of a rout which
so many people predicted would happen when
there were too few to defend themselves, they
ceremoniously furled up their flags and de-
parted, leaving not chaos out of which a revo-
lutionary movement would have seized power,
but the South Vietnamese Government very
much in charge.
As one who has not been in America in
recent months, I had expected to meet a Presi-
dent of the United States who had become
remote and a recluse. Laughter] I must say
I was greatly relieved to find that I did not
have such a forbidding figure to meet.
272
