[28] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
War I, and then under Winston Churchill
in World War II, which contributed
enormously to the success of the British
in those two tremendous struggles.
The Cabinet we have here today, the
new members as well as the old who will
be continuing, and the members of the
sub-Cabinet that we have here, in a sense
I would describe as a peace Cabinet. The
tasks are just as great as those in war.
They are just as exciting; in ways they
can be more challenging. We, therefore,
have drawn from all sections of the coun-
try, from all sections of our society, from
labor and management, from both politi-
cal parties, and we believe we have rep-
resentation in this Cabinet and in the
sub-Cabinet which is not only distin-
guished but also representative of the
entire Nation.
It is to the challenge of peace that we
now turn, and it is particularly appro-
priate that the whole group be sworn in
today by the Chief Justice of the United
States.
I would simply add one final point, and
that is that, traditionally, the swearing-in
ceremonies are participated in by the
Chief Justice and by the President only
when it is a member of the Cabinet him-
self, at the highest level, because obviously
when you get to the sub-Cabinet and the
rest, the numbers become much too great.
On this occasion, as you will note, we
are swearing in not only the members of
the Cabinet but a considerable number of
those from the sub-Cabinet. Our purpose
in doing this is not simply to single out
some sub-Cabinet members who may have
already been approved and leave others
out. But our purpose is to indicate that
just as important to the success of an ad-
ministration, just as important to this
peace Cabinet that we are now launching,
as the ones with the highest positions and
with the Cadillacs, just as important as
that are those who are the under secre-
taries, the deputy secretaries, who work
day and night, who carry so much of the
responsibility and who do not, of course,
receive the public limelight that those
in the top positions do.
We wanted on this occasion, by having
you here not as inferiors, but basically
as equals, because I know every member
of the Cabinet would say that his under
secretary, his assistant secretary, in carry-
ing out responsibilities, is not basically a
subordinate, but he is an equal partner in
a great enterprise, and it is for that rea-
son we have joined the Cabinet members
with the under secretaries and deputy sec-
retaries on this occasion.
The Chief Justice will preside. He will
read off the names. I rather wondered
about that, about having the Chief Justice
call people up. You will wonder why. But
in any event, he will read off the names,
and as you come up, he will administer
the oath, and I will be here to witness the
oath.
[At this point, Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice
of the United States, administered the oaths of
office to the following Cabinet and sub-Cabinet
officials:
ELLIOT L. RICHARDSON-Secretary of Defense
FREDERICK B. DENT-Secretary of Commerce
PETER J. BRENNAN-Secretary of Labor
JAMES T. LYNN-Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development
CLAUDE S. BRINEGAR-Secretary of Transpor-
tation
ROY L. ASH-Director, Office of Management
and Budget
JOHN SCALI-United States Representative to
the United Nations
ANNE L. ARMSTRONG-Counsellor to the
President
JAMES R. SCHLESINGER-Director of Central
Intelligence
72
