[162] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
formation has already been made public
through court orders, through the sub-
poenaing of documents, and through testi-
mony witnesses have given in judicial
and Congressional proceedings. Other
sensitive documents are now threatened
with disclosure. Continued silence about
those operations would compromise
rather than protect them and would also
serve to perpetuate a grossly distorted
view-which recent partial disclosures
have given of the nature and purpose
of those operations.
The purpose of this statement is
threefold:
-First, to set forth the facts about my
own relationship to the Watergate matter;
-Second, to place in some perspective
some of the more sensational-and inac-
curate of the charges that have filled
the headlines in recent days, and also some
of the matters that are currently being
discussed in Senate testimony and else-
where;
-Third, to draw the distinction be-
tween national security operations and
the Watergate case. To put the other
matters in perspective, it will be necessary
to describe the national security opera-
tions first.
In citing these national security mat-
ters, it is not my intention to place a
national security "cover" on Watergate,
but rather to separate them out from
Watergate and at the same time to ex-
plain the context in which certain actions
took place that were later misconstrued
or misused.
Long before the Watergate break-in,
three important national security opera-
tions took place which have subsequently
become entangled in the Watergate case.
-The first operation, begun in 1969,
was a program of wiretaps. All were legal,
under the authorities then existing. They
were undertaken to find and stop seri-
ous national security leaks.
--The second operation was a reassess-
ment, which I ordered in 1970, of the ade-
quacy of internal security measures. This
resulted in a plan and a directive to
strengthen our intelligence operations.
They were protested by Mr. Hoover, and
as a result of his protest, they were not
put into effect.
-The third operation was the estab-
lishment, in 1971, of a Special Investiga-
tions Unit in the White House. Its pri-
mary mission was to plug leaks of vital
security information. I also directed this
group to prepare an accurate history of
certain crucial national security matters
which occurred under prior administra-
tions, on which the Government's records
were incomplete.
Here is the background of these three
security operations initiated in my
Administration.
1969 WIRETAPS
By mid-1969, my Administration had
begun a number of highly sensitive for-
eign policy initiatives. They were aimed
at ending the war in Vietnam, achieving
a settlement in the Middle East, limit-
ing nuclear arms, and establishing new
relationships among the great powers.
These involved highly secret diplomacy.
They were closely interrelated. Leaks of
secret information about any one could
endanger all.
Exactly that happened. News accounts
appeared in 1969, which were obviously
based on leaks--some of them extensive
and detailed-by people having access
548
