Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
vances in health and education-hun-
dreds of millions of people in the develop-
ing countries still exist in conditions of
extreme hunger, poverty, and disease.
Basic humanitarian considerations call on
us to assist these countries in improving
the lives of their people. But we also have
a major economic and political interest
in the growth and stability of these coun-
tries and in their active cooperation.
Many of these countries have energy
resources and raw materials that we will
need in significantly increasing amounts.
Some of them have become fast-growing
markets for our exports. Almost one-third
of U.S. exports went to developing coun-
tries in 1972 and the future growth of
these countries will expand our markets.
But an increased pace of development
is essential. Unless substantial progress
occurs-through efforts by developed and
developing nations alike—the stability of
many countries and regions can be jeop-
ardized as essential needs of people go
unsatisfied.
There has been a growing tendency to
question our commitment to help devel-
oping nations. Attracted to rapid solu-
tions and under-estimating the time and
effort needed to stimulate development,
Americans are frustrated by the slow pace
of visible progress. But, our future eco-
nomic and political needs will be far
better served by actively cooperating with
the developing countries for our mutual
benefit than by neglecting their needs. We
must pursue a realistic policy of develop-
ment assistance and find better ways of
dealing with the trade and monetary
interests of developing nations.
Foreign Assistance. I have long been
convinced that we needed major improve-
ments in our foreign assistance program.
Numerous statements in committees re-
sponsible for aid legislation and by indi-
vidual Congressmen suggest that broad
support exists for a modified approach to
aid.
We have already improved our aid sys-
tem in several ways. Bilateral aid is now
focused on a few key areas-such as pop-
ulation planning, agriculture, health, and
education-in which the Agency for In-
ternational Development (AID) has a
high degree of experience and expertise.
Development assistance has been separ-
ated organizationally from assistance
given for security reasons. A new Inter-
national Narcotics Control Assistance
Program is helping developing countries
improve their ability to control the pro-
duction and flow of illicit narcotics. And
we have strengthened our capacity to
provide urgently needed emergency assist-
to countries that have suffered
disasters.
Effective coordination of aid has in-
creased its efficiency and benefits for
recipients. AID is increasingly coordinat-
ing its programs with those of other na-
tions and international bodies. In coopera-
tion with other nations, we have provided
short-term relief to countries whose debt
burden was so overwhelming that it
threatened their growth and stability.
We deal with recipient countries as
partners recognizing their growing exper-
tise and their ability to determine their
own development needs. While we help
in the planning, funding, and monitoring
of development programs, we no longer
take the lead in setting priorities or in
detailed execution.
We have made substantial contributions
to development assistance through inter-
national institutions such as the World
475
