Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 27 [91]
portant role to play, and many individual
businesses and civic groups, large and
small, are helping to provide a square deal
for the returning veteran.
In New York City, for example, one
of the Nation's largest commercial banks
has instructed its hiring offices to give
veterans first priority in employment. This
bank is making a particular effort to hire
seriously handicapped veterans, an espe-
cially deserving group. Since 1968, this
one bank has employed more than 1,500
young servicemen, including over 150
who are severely disabled.
Recently I met with leaders of the Na-
tional Alliance of Businessmen and the
Jobs for Veterans program to discuss their
goal of filling 150,000 jobs with Vietnam-
era veterans by June 30 of this year.
They're doing so well that they now expect
to exceed their goal by more than 50,000
jobs.
Employers all across America can serve
their country, and help themselves, by
following such examples.
Thanks to the sacrifices of our returning
veterans, America has achieved peace with
honor in Vietnam, and the chances for
lasting peace in the world are greater
today than at any time in our past. Thanks
to them, America's word is trusted and
America's strength is respected, all around
the world.
Just as we have kept faith with our
allies abroad, let us now keep faith with
our returning veterans at home. They
have given much to defend the American
way of life; it is time for America to serve
them equally well.
Let each of us give them the warm wel-
come they deserve. Let us welcome them
back, not only with open arms but with
open opportunities, with sincere respect,
and with the chance to play important
roles in every phase of community life.
As we welcome the veteran, let us fol-
low the example of Abraham Lincoln.
At the closing of the long and tragic Civil
War, he urged his countrymen "to bind
up the nation's wounds, to care for him
who shall have borne the battle and for
his widow and his orphan, (and) to do
all which may achieve and cherish a just
and lasting peace among ourselves and
with all nations."
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
The President also recorded the statement
for radio broadcast.
91 Veto of the Vocational Rehabilitation Bill.
March 27, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning today without my ap-
proval S. 7, the "Rehabilitation Act of
1972."
This bill is one of several now before
the Congress which mask bad legislation
beneath alluring labels.
Their supporters would have the Amer-
ican public believe that each of these bills
would further an important social cause,
but they neglect to warn the public that
the cumulative effect of a Congressional
spending spree would be a massive assault
upon the pocketbooks of millions of men
and women in this country. They also fail
to warn us that simply throwing money
31-870 - 75 - 18
223
