Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 27 [131]
from here? And I can tell you that the
prospects for peace and freedom are
bright, provided the United States stays
strong, and provided we meet our respon-
sibilities as a world power. And that is
why Senator Stennis' remarks are so sig-
nificant on this occasion. Let me lay it
out very directly to you:
Many people applauded-in fact, the
whole world applauded the arms limita-
tion agreement we negotiated with the
Soviet Union last year. My friends, we
would never have gotten an agreement
with the Soviet Union had not Senator
Stennis, Congressman Hébert, Senator
Eastland, and a number of other Con-
gressmen and Senators stood firm against
those who, before the President went to
Moscow, said, "Let's cut our arms down
first, and then hope they do."
Don't ever send the President of the
United States to negotiate with anybody
as the head of the second strongest na-
tion in the world. And I say that not be-
cause we want to use our strength against
somebody else, but because in the world
in which we live you can only negotiate
something you want from somebody else if
the other individual nation or leader has
something that he wants to get from you.
And that is why we want to limit arms.
We would like to reduce the burden of
armaments, but in order to do so, let us
do it by mutual agreement. Let not the
United States move down first and then
trust to the good will and the good inten-
tions of others who may not have the
same attitudes that we have toward build-
ing a world of peace, and one in which
we can all be free or more free-from
the burden of armaments.
I can say finally that the great decisions
that have been made in the year 1972, and
previously, have been ones that have
been difficult, yes. But what has really
meant something, a great deal to me, has
been the personal association as well as
the personal support that I have had
from and with John Stennis in that period.
Time after time we have met, we have
talked about the tough decisions, the
close votes. I have told him that we can-
not go to these negotiations in the event
that the Senate moved on well-inten-
tioned but, in my view, misguided resolu-
tions that would have reduced our de-
fenses before the negotiations began.
And John Stennis, night after night,
went down through those long sessions
and stood there holding the fort, fighting
for that kind of strong defense because of
the conversations we had had, knowing
what was on the line, and winning those
votes.
I remember one in particular that im-
pressed me. The debate finished at about
three in the morning. It was a very close
vote. I called the Senator. He had driven
home and I reached him at home. And I
said, "Senator, I just want to thank you
for your leadership, because as a result of
your holding the line on that vote, that
means that there is now a good possibility
we will be able to have a successful nego-
tiation with the Soviet Union on limiting
arms, which everybody wants to do."
The Senator said—and this is typical of
the greatness and the humility of the
man-he said, "Mr. President, I appre-
ciate your calling me and thanking me.
And he said, "I am only sorry that we are
causing you so much trouble down there
in the Senate when you are going to have
to go over and do that very important
negotiation."
That is John Stennis-not thinking of
323
