Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [164]
proved that you will do anything that you
can to do what is best for America, not
just for yourselves.
Because at this particular point, Amer-
ica is the richest country in the world;
militarily, it is the strongest and will always
have that potential because of its wealth.
The only question is whether we face up
to our world responsibilities, whether we
have the faith, the patriotism, the will-
ingness to lead in this critical period.
Gentlemen, by what you did and what
you said on your return, you have helped
turn this country around. You have
helped reinstill faith where there was
doubt before. And for what you have
164
done by your faith, you have built up
America's faith. This Nation and the
world will always be in your debt.
Those first 4 years in the office were
not easy ones for me in the international
front, fighting for an adequate defense
budget, fighting for a responsible foreign
policy, but looking toward the balance of
the second 4 years, let me say I feel better,
because out in this room, I think I have
got some allies, and I will appreciate your
help.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:34 p.m. in
the West Auditorium of the Department of
State.
Remarks of Welcome at a Dinner Honoring Returned
Prisoners of War. May 24, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
Please be seated, and in a moment you
will stand again.
As all of you know, this is the largest
dinner ever held at the White House,
and that in itself would make it important.
I think you should also know that in this
great house the most distinguished men
and women of the world have been en-
tertained. Emperors and kings and presi-
dents and leaders from virtually every
nation of the world have been honored
here, and of course, they have honored
this house by being here.
But I know that I speak for all of the
American people when I say that never
has the White House been more proud
than it is tonight because of the guests
we have tonight.
And our program will begin with an
invocation by, I understand, the honorary
chaplain, Chaplain [Charles R.] Gillespie
[Jr.]. I, incidentally, was wondering if we
had picked the right chaplain when we
selected him. I was just hoping we could
have gotten that one that Patton had that
worked out the business so that we had
that clear day during the Battle of the
Bulge.
But since we can't get him, the honor-
ary chaplain of the POW Camp in Hanoi,
Captain Gillespie, will give the invoca-
tion, and then the chorus, the POW
Chorus, will sing the POW Hymn, which
was composed in the camp, and they, I
understand, will come up here on the
stage and sing it.
So, Mr. Gillespie first.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House.
563
