Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 3 [281]
with regard to the alliance and with re-
gard to economic matters as well.
The latter, as you know, I discussed
with Mr. Ortoli when he was here.2 That
progress is going on, incidentally, well
ahead of schedule according to Dr. Kis-
singer. As soon as those preliminary ne-
gotiations are completed and as soon as
it is clear on both sides of the Atlantic
that this will be a trip not for protocol
purposes, but one that will have real sub-
stance in it, then we will work out a date.
Now, the second factor, however, which
enters into this is the Congressional sched-
ule. I cannot take a trip to Europe or any-
place else at a time when there are mat-
ters before the Congress of very great sig-
nificance. That is why I cannot pinpoint
this in terms of saying that just as soon as
the Europeans are ready, we will go.
If the Europeans are ready at a time
that we have a heavy calendar in Con-
gress, I shall have to postpone the trip
until that.
But I would say I am thinking in terms
of the next 3 or 4 months, but it might
be sooner than that; probably not much
later.
Now, with regard to Japan, I agreed
with Mr. Tanaka, when he was here, that
I would visit Japan before the end of 1974.
We will, of course, make those plans again
consistent with our developments on the
bilateral side and at a time when we think
that there is a matter of substance to be
discussed or matters of substance to be dis-
cussed and at a time which is consistent
with my responsibilities on the domestic
front.
2 The President met with François-Xavier
Ortoli, President of the Commission of the
European Communities, at the White House
on October 1, 1973.
AUSTRIAN DECISION ON JEWISH EMIGREES
FROM THE SOVIET UNION
[9.] Q. Could I ask, Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. This lady is-
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You don't mind a
lady going ahead of you, do you?
Q. No, sir.
Q. Thank you, sir.
Do you have any comment to make on
the Austrian decision to close the Rus-
sian emigrant facilities?
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me.
Q. The Austrian decision to close the
Russian emigrant facilities.
The President. I heard your question,
but I wanted the radio to hear it, too.
Q. Oh, thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have. The Aus-
trians are in a very difficult position here.
As you know, I stopped in Austria on my
way to Moscow and for the first time—no,
the second time, met the Prime Minister,
Mr. Kreisky, and anybody who knows his
background knows that he is certainly not
anti-Semitic. But Austria is in the eye of
a hurricane, and Austria, therefore, be-
ing a relatively small country and rela-
tively weak militarily, et cetera, is mak-
ing a very, what I am sure for Mr. Kreisky,
painful decision in this respect.
I recall, for example, that at the time
of the Hungarian revolution, Austria
opened its arms very generously to thou-
sands of refugees, and I know that is the
Austrian tradition and custom. I would
hope and I would express this—I would
hope that the Prime Minister would re-
consider his decision, even though I know
he has even lately reiterated it, reconsider
it for this fundamental reason that goes
far beyond his country and even ours, and
843
