[31] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent, I perhaps was sitting a couple of
places over, and Mrs. Nixon here, Secre-
tary Herter further down the line.
I recall, particularly, that evening Pres-
ident Eisenhower, in the private conversa-
tion before the dinner began, expressed
his great admiration to me of His Majesty
and for the courage of this very young
King. He was only 24 then. He is still a
young King. He is 37 now. But I also
remember that some of the intelligence
reports that we received, not from our
own Government, but from other gov-
ernments, indicated that he wouldn't last
long. [Laughter] There were too many
troubles in Jordan. It was a country that
had forces that would split it apart and
here was the young King, whose grand-
father had been assassinated, who had
seen his country torn by strife, here in the
United States in 1959 being toasted by
President Eisenhower, the then leader of
the free world, 14 years ago.
He did last. President Eisenhower,
President Kennedy, President Johnson
have all passed on, and our distinguished
guest still lives. He is here as the head of a
country that has had very difficult prob-
lems. It has had great threats from within
and from without, but it has survived be-
cause of one man-the man we honor to-
night, a man who has been honored at this
table before at dinners that President
Eisenhower gave, and President Johnson,
and in my first term in 1969, right here
at this table.
And it is his courage, the fact that at
times when it appeared that extremism
was the way to popularity, he stood for
moderation and responsibility. At times
when it appeared that timidity was the
'Christian A. Herter, Secretary of State
(1959-61).
best way to be safe, he stood for courage.
He was the symbol that kept this small
country, with its very brave people, alive,
strong, independent in the heart of the
Mideast.
And that is the reason why all of our
guests, from all over the United States
tonight, are very proud to be here in the
company of Your Majesty and also of your
Queen. We are very proud to welcome
her for the first time to this house, and
we claim a bit of her.
While she has lived in all of the great
capitals of the world or most of them—
in Rome, because she came from a great
diplomatic family, in London, in Ankara,
of course in her own country, and she has
visited most of the capitals of the world—
she also has lived in New York and at
least a part of her worldwide education
was at Hunter College in New York City.
So, whatever her virtues are, Your Maj-
esty, we claim. [Laughter] And we know
they are many.
And we are honored that both of you
were able to come to our country on this
occasion.
I would simply say in concluding the
toast to His Majesty's health, as is the
custom on such occasions, that it was once
written that as far as greatness is con-
cerned, that some men are born to great-
ness, others achieve it, and others have it
thrust upon them. Our very distinguished
guest this evening was born to greatness,
in a great royal family. He had greatness
thrust upon him at a very young age-17
years of age he became King of his coun-
try and he bore that responsibility with
dignity and great courage.
But we honor him tonight because he
achieved greatness, achieved greatness in
all the years he has ruled his country with
such courage and stability and modera-
78
