[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
break-in, say "Let's present it then to the
grand jury," because nothing had been
accomplished, nothing had been obtained
that would taint the case.
It was approximately 10 days later that
Mr. Kleindienst came in and said that,
after a review of the situation in the prose-
cutor's office in Washington, in which Mr.
Petersen had also participated, that they
believed that it was best that we bend
over backwards in this case and send this
record of the Ellsberg break-in, even
though there was no evidence obtained
from it that could have affected the jury
one way or another, send it to the judge.
When they made that recommendation
to me. I directed that it be done, instantly.
It was done. Incidentally, the prosecutor
argued this case just the way that I have
argued it to you, and whether or not it
had an effect on the eventual outcome, I
do not know.
At least, as far as we know, Mr. Ellsberg
went free, this being one of the factors.
But that is the explanation of what hap-
pened and obviously, you, in your com-
mentary tonight, can attach anything you
want to it.
I hope you will be just as fair and ob-
jective as I try to be in giving you the
answer. And I know you will be, sir.
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[10] Q. Mr. President, what is the
state of your confidence in your Vice
President at this point in time?
THE PRESIDENT. I have noted some
press speculation to the effect that I have
not expressed confidence in the Vice Presi-
dent, and therefore, I welcome this ques-
tion because I want to set the record
straight. I had confidence in the integrity
of the Vice President when I selected him
Vice President when very few
knew him, as you may recall back in
1968 knew him nationally. My confi-
dence in his integrity has not been shaken,
and in fact, it has been strengthened by
his courageous conduct and his ability
even though he is controversial at times, as
I am over the past 412 years. So I have
confidence in the integrity of the Vice
President and particularly in the perform-
ance of the duties that he has had as Vice
President and as a candidate for Vice
President.
Now obviously the question arises as to
charges that have been made about activi-
ties that occurred before he became Vice
President. He would consider it im-
proper--I would consider it improper-
for me to comment on those charges,
and I shall not do so. But I will make a
comment on another subject that I think
needs to be commented upon, and that
is the outrageous leak of information from
either the grand jury, or the prosecutors,
or the Department of Justice, or all
three. And, incidentally. I am not going
to put the responsibility on all three until
I learn from the Attorney General, who, at
my request, is making a full investigation
of this at the present time. I am not going
to put the responsibility but the leak of
information with regard to charges that
have been made against the Vice Presi-
dent and leaking them all in the press.
Convicting an individual not only
trying him but convicting him in the
headlines and on television before he has
had a chance to present his case in court
is completely contrary to the American
tradition. Even a Vice President has a
right to some, shall I say, consideration
in this respect, let alone the ordinary in-
dividual. And I will say this and the At-
torney General, I know, has taken note
718
