[374] Dec. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
been blessed. It is a many-faceted treas-
ure, of value to scholars, scientists, and
nature lovers alike, and it forms a vital
part of the heritage we all share as Amer-
icans. I congratulate the 93d Congress for
taking this important step toward protect-
ing a heritage which we hold in trust to
countless future generations of our fellow
citizens. Their lives will be richer, and
America will be more beautiful in the
years ahead, thanks to the measure that
I have the pleasure of signing into law
today.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1983 is Public Law 93-
205 (87 Stat. 884).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
375 Statement on Signing a Bill Authorizing Insured
Loans To Provide Nursing Home Fire Safety
Equipment. December 28, 1973
S. 513, which I sign into law today, will
enable the Federal Government to insure
mortgage insurance for fire safety equip-
ment in nursing homes and intermediate
care facilities not now eligible for such
assistance.
This legislation represents another im-
portant step in our efforts to improve the
lives of elderly Americans. It builds on
our comprehensive program of nursing
home reform which was launched in 1971.
It also represents a crucial new step in a
national effort to enhance our fire protec-
tion practice.
Because of their physical dependence,
elderly men and women confined to nurs-
ing homes and other long-term care facil-
ities are especially threatened by outbreaks
of fire. Often this threat can be signifi-
cantly diminished by modest investments
in fire safety equipment. In a recent nurs-
ing home fire in Wayne County, Pa., it was
found that a $200 smoke-warning device
could have saved 7 of the 11 lives that
were lost.
A recent study of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare shows
that many nursing homes participating in
the Medicare or Medicaid program have
not met all of the requirements of the Life
Safety Code. Automatic sprinklers, for
example, have yet to be installed in a
number of homes that have been identi-
fied as needing them.
We intend to see that such deficiencies
are corrected. But as we enforce the Life
Safety Code, we must also assist nursing
home owners in raising the capital needed
for essential fire safety modifications.
It was to this end that my Administra-
tion endorsed the enactment of S. 513. But
our efforts to improve the Nation's fire
safety practices must not stop here.
That is why this Administration has
proposed other comprehensive amend-
ments to the National Housing Act which
would enable the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development to insure sup-
plemental loans to a broad range of
health facilities and multifamily housing
units for increased fire protection. Even as
I sign S. 513, I urge early and favorable
consideration of these additional amend-
ments.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 513 is Public Law 93-204
(87 Stat. 883).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
1028
