(44) Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
advice and consent of the Senate for this
convention as soon as possible. Congres-
sional action is also needed on several
other international conventions and
amendments to control oil pollution from
ships in the oceans.
MANAGING THE Land
As we steadily bring our pollution prob-
lems under control, more effective and
sensible use of our land is rapidly emerg-
ing as among the highest of our priorities.
The land is our Nation's basic natural
resource, and our stewardship of this re-
source today will affect generations to
come.
America's land once seemed inexhaust-
ible. There was always more of it beyond
the horizon. Until the twentieth century
we displayed a carelessness about our land,
born of our youthful innocence and desire
to expand. But our land is no longer an
open frontier.
Americans not only need, but also very
much want to preserve diverse and beauti-
ful landscapes, to maintain essential farm
lands, to save wetlands and wildlife habi-
tats, to keep open recreational space near
crowded population centers, and to pro-
tect our shorelines and beaches. Our goal
is to harmonize development with envi-
ronmental quality and to add creatively to
the beauty and long-term worth of land
already being used.
Land use policy is a basic responsibility
of State and local governments. They are
closer to the problems and closer to the
people. Some localities are already re-
forming land use regulation--a trend I
hope will accelerate. But because land is
a national heritage, the Federal Govern-
ment must exercise leadership in land use
decision processes, and I am today again
proposing that we provide it. In the com-
ing weeks, I will ask the Congress to enact
a number of legislative initiatives which
will help us achieve this goal:
--National Land Use Policy. Our great-
est need is for comprehensive new legisla-
tion to stimulate State land use controls.
We especially need a National Land Use
Policy Act authorizing Federal assistance
to encourage the States, in cooperation
with local governments, to protect lands of
critical environmental concern and to reg-
ulate the siting of key facilities such as air-
ports, highways and major private de-
velopments. Appropriate Federal funds
should be withheld from States that fail
to act.
-Powerplant Siting. An open, long-
range planning process is needed to help
meet our power needs while also protect-
ing the environment. We can avoid un-
necessary delays with a powerplant siting
law which assures that electric power fa-
cilities are constructed on a timely basis,
but with early and thorough review of
long-range plans and specific provisions
to protect the environment.
-Protection of Wetlands. Our coastal
wetlands are increasingly threatened by
residential and commercial development.
To increase their protection, I believe we
should use the Federal tax laws to dis-
courage unwise development in wetlands.
Historic Preservation and Rehabili-
tation. An important part of our national
heritage are those historic structures in
our urban areas which should be rehabili
tated and preserved, not demolished. To
help meet this goal, our tax laws should
be revised to encourage rehabilitation of
older buildings, and we should provide
Federal insurance of loans to restore his-
toric buildings for residential purposes.
Management of Public Lands. Ap-
98
