[346] Dec. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is only on that basis that we can build a
better world, a world with more justice. We are
convinced that the peoples of the world will
march ever more firmly in this direction.
I am happy to be able to state that the re-
lations between Romania and the United States
are based precisely on these principles and that
this has been confirmed in the years that have
passed. I am persuaded that our visit to the
United States and the talks with you, Mr. Presi
dent, will establish an even more lasting basis
to the cooperation between our two countries
in the interest of a better and brighter world.
It is with these thoughts, Mr. President, that
I address to you and to the people of America
the feelings of friendship on behalf of the entire
Romanian people. May I wish you and the
American people progress and peace.
347 Remarks Announcing Establishment of the Federal
Energy Office. December 4, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have an announcement with regard
to the energy crisis that I will now make,
and at the conclusion of my announce-
ment, Mr. Simon will have a brief state-
ment with regard to his acceptance of the
position that I am appointing him to, and
then will take questions on the new office
that we are setting up and new actions
that we are taking to meet the energy
crisis.
As you recall, in my report to the Na-
tion on November 25, I said that I would
be reporting from time to time on the
energy crisis and on the steps that I would
personally be taking to meet it.
Last June, I asked Governor Love to
join my staff in order to develop the nec-
essary policies to meet what was then
essentially a long-term problem which
had important short-term consequences.
Governor Love has provided me with a
broad range of recommendations and
policy considerations for achieving inde-
pendence with regard to energy by the
year 1980. The work which Governor
Love and his staff have done in the last
6 months constitutes an invaluable and
lasting contribution to this Nation's ef-
forts to meet a challenge of formidable
dimensions.
While the process of policy formula-
tion was going forward, the world-the
United States and all the rest of the world
as well-was confronted with a new and
far more critical situation arising from the
Middle East oil embargo.
I have discussed in recent weeks those
steps which we would take to meet this
new situation. Such steps will involve the
Federal Government directly in opera-
tional matters, in addition to its policy-
making role in resolving the energy crisis.
In order to administer the necessary vol-
untary and mandatory actions, some of
which have been announced, some of
which are still under consideration, we
must now strengthen our ability to make
and implement our energy program.
The planning for this step has been in
process for several weeks. I have been in
consultation with my senior advisers on
the development of an operational struc-
ture to carry out our energy policies. And
we also have been in contact with major
Congressional leaders who are interested
in this particular problem and have re-
sponsibilities in the Congress for the
problem.
As a result of these consultations, I
have decided to bring together in one
agency the major energy resource man-
agement functions of the Federal Govern-
ment to provide the centralized authority
I
990
