[51] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
therefore, from a political and partisan
standpoint, the better course of action
and the easy course of action was to get
out of Vietnam, to bring our men home,
and to bring them home and to get our
prisoners of war back regardless of what
happened to South Vietnam.
That would have been a rather easy
position, politically, to take. On the other
hand, when we examine it for what it
really meant and could have meant to
the United States, we can see why I
had to reject it and why the people of the
United States have supported that rejec-
tion during the 4 years which finally
ended with the peace settlement.
If, for example, the North Vietnamese
would have accepted the proposition of
returning our prisoners of war simply for
our getting out our own troops from Viet-
nam-and that is a highly doubtful prop-
osition but if they had, let us see what
it would have meant.
We would have fought a long war. We
would have lost tens of thousands of
Americans who were killed in action, and
we would have fought it for what pur-
pose? Only to get our prisoners of war
back. If you wonder whether or not that
purpose would have been adequate, let
me say that a letter that I received from
a mother in California perhaps will an-
swer the question:
"As a mother of a young man who gave
his life in this war, I felt very strongly
about wanting an honorable peace agree-
ment. Had you agreed to anything less,
you would have let down not only the
boys remaining in Vietnam, but also,
those who died in this war. It was difficult
enough to accept our son's death, but to
know it was all in vain would have been
even more a tragedy. We feel that our son
James would have felt as we do, and
would have supported your policy."
I say to the members of this Assembly
gathered here that James did not die in
vain, that the men who went to Vietnam
and have served there with honor did
not serve in vain, and that our POW's,
as they return, did not make the sacri-
fices that they made in vain, and I say
it because of what we did in Vietnam.
It is my firm conviction that the United
States can now exercise more effective
leadership in the cause of world peace
which the Governor has so eloquently de-
scribed a moment ago. On this occasion,
I think it is well for us to think of a num-
ber of people whom we should honor
today. We, of course, should honor our
prisoners of war who have come back
after their great ordeal standing tall,
proud of their country, proud of their
service.
We should honor, also, those who have
died, and in honoring them, let's honor
some of the bravest women this Nation
has ever seen, the wives, the mothers, not
only of the POW's but of those who died,
the mother of a boy like James.
And finally, let us honor the 2½ mil-
lion men who served, who did not desert
America, but who served, served in a diffi-
cult war, came back, often not with honor
in terms of what they found from their
neighbors and friends, but came back to
what could have been a rather discourag-
ing reception.
Now that we have brought an end to
the war, let us honor them all, and the
way to honor them, I say, is for us to work
together to build a lasting peace in the
world, a peace that can last not only in
Southeast Asia, but a peace that the
United States can help to build for this
whole world in which we live.
Ending a war is not unusual for the
11
110
