[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
PART I: BUILDING NEW
-China
RELATIONSHIPS
-The Soviet Union
CHINA
In this Administration we have begun
a new chapter in American-Chinese re-
lations, and as a result the international
landscape has been fundamentally
changed.
For two decades our two countries
stared at each other icily across a gulf
of hostility and suspicion. Misunderstand-
ing was assured. Miscalculation was a
constant danger. And constructing a
permanent peace was impossible.
This estrangement had global ramifica-
tions that went far beyond our bilateral
relationship. So long as we were not deal-
ing with the People's Republic of China,
our foreign policy could not truly reflect
the emerging multipolar world. The isola-
tion of one-fourth of the human race,
partly self-imposed and partly the result
of the policies of others, distorted the in-
ternational scene. It also tended to rein-
force China's own sense of insecurity.
There could be no stable world order if
one of the major powers remained outside
it and antagonistic toward it.
In the past four years this situation has
been transformed. Bilaterally, deep dif-
ferences in ideology and policy remain;
neither we nor the Chinese leaders have
illusions that our discussions will convert
each other. But extensive and frank dia-
logue has greatly increased mutual under-
standing. The risk of confrontation there-
fore has been sharply reduced, and in
any event it should no longer flow from
miscalculation. Without either side aban-
doning its principles, we now have the
potential for positive enterprises.
There are concrete manifestations of
this new chapter in our relationship.
Before, there was no dialogue at all
between our governments, except for des-
ultory meetings in third countries. Now
we have held hundreds of hours of direct
talks at the highest levels. Liaison Offices
are being established in Peking and
Washington.
Before, there was virtually no contact
between a quarter of the world's popula-
tion and the American people. Now there
is a significant exchange of groups and
persons in a wide spectrum of fields. This
will increase substantially.
Before, our bilateral trade was minis-
cule. Now it is reaching very substantial
levels. There will be further expansion.
This process in turn has helped to create
new possibilities on a global scale. Our
own diplomacy has been broadened; we
can more effectively promote an inclusive
peace. The People's Republic of China
has become more fully engaged in the
world scene; much more than before, it is
making its contributions to shaping the
international order.
The turning point came at the summit
in February 1972 when the leaders of the
People's Republic of China and the
United States met and put their personal
imprint on a new direction for our two
nations, and with it new contours for the
world.
THE ROAD TO THE SUMMIT
Three years of meticulous preparation
preceded my trip to Peking.
When I took office, I was determined
to reestablish contact between the most
358
