Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
political and financial support. Many
Americans may have thought of the
United Nations as an "instant world gov-
ernment" that could somehow attack and
solve all the problems and ills of the world.
But it must be recognized that the United
Nations is a body of 132 member states,
each maintaining its sovereignty and pur-
suing its own national interests. Only
when there is a broad consensus does
United Nations action become possible.
The United States takes seriously its
obligations under the United Nations
Charter. Except for imports of small
quantities of certain strategic materials
exempted by U.S. public law-account-
ing for no more than a minute percentage
of Rhodesia's exports-the United States,
unlike many others, adheres strictly to the
UN program of sanctions against Rho-
desia. Many in the United Nations chal-
lenged our observance of sanctions. But
there should not be a double standard
which ignores the widespread, substan-
tial but unavowed-non-observance of
sanctions by others.
In last year's Report, I stated that “pru-
dence and political realism dictate that no
one country should be assessed a dispro-
portionate share of the expenses of an
organization approaching universality in
which each member, large or small, has
but one vote. That is particularly true
when experience has shown that the ma-
jor contributing countries are unable to
exercise effective control over the UN
budget." I therefore announced that it
would be our goal to negotiate a reduc-
tion in our United Nations assessment
from 31.5 percent to 25 percent of the
organization's budget. This idea was not
at all new; in fact, in 1946 Senator Arthur
Vandenberg argued in favor of a U.S.
assessment of 25 percent. This figure was
also cited as desirable by the Lodge Com-
mission on the United Nations in 1971,
and it was endorsed by the United States
Congress in 1972.
On December 13, 1972, by an over-
whelming majority vote, the United Na-
tions initiated action to reduce our assess-
ment to 25 percent as soon as practicable.
This step, which required the agreement
of other members, can only result in a
strengthened United Nations, in which
the costs of membership are more evenly
distributed.
We have continued to be generous in
voluntary contributions to a variety of
programs, including the United Nations
Development Program, UNICEF, and
the United Nations' funds on population
activities, the environment, and narcotics
control.
LIVING TOGETHER
Unable to retreat into isolation in a
world made small by technology and
shared aspirations, man has no choice but
to reach out to his fellow man. Together
we must build a world order in which we
can work together to resolve our common
problems. That is what the United Na-
tions is all about. If we sometimes appear
to be criticizing rather than praising the
United Nations, it is because we need it
and want to make it a dynamic instru-
ment for promoting a lasting peace.
The commitment of this Administration
to the strengthening of international in-
stitutions remains firm. We stand ready
to cooperate with all United Nations
members, large and small, in enhancing
the capacity of the United Nations to deal
as effectively with problems of peace and
security as it does with economic and tech-
nical questions.
505
