Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 24 [311]
311 Veto of the War Powers Resolution.
October 24, 1973
To the House of Representatives:
I hereby return without my approval
House Joint Resolution 542—the War
Powers Resolution. While I am in accord
with the desire of the Congress to assert
its proper role in the conduct of our for-
eign affairs, the restrictions which this
resolution would impose upon the author-
ity of the President are both unconstitu-
tional and dangerous to the best interests.
of our Nation.
The proper roles of the Congress and
the Executive in the conduct of foreign
affairs have been debated since the found-
ing of our country. Only recently, how-
ever, has there been a serious challenge to
the wisdom of the Founding Fathers in
choosing not to draw a precise and de-
tailed line of demarcation between the
foreign policy powers of the two branches.
The Founding Fathers understood the
impossibility of foreseeing every con-
tingency that might arise in this complex
area. They acknowledged the need for
flexibility in responding to changing cir-
cumstances. They recognized that foreign
policy decisions must be made through
close cooperation between the two
branches and not through rigidly codified
procedures.
These principles remain as valid today
as they were when our Constitution was
written. Yet House Joint Resolution 542
would violate those principles by defining
the President's powers in ways which
would strictly limit his constitutional
authority.
CLEARLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL
House Joint Resolution 542 would at-
tempt to take away, by a mere legislative
act, authorities which the President has
properly exercised under the Constitu-
tion for almost 200 years. One of its provi-
sions would automatically cut off certain
authorities after sixty days unless the Con-
gress extended them. Another would allow
the Congress to eliminate certain authori-
ties merely by the passage of a concurrent
resolution-an action which does not
normally have the force of law, since it
denies the President his constitutional role
in approving legislation.
I believe that both these provisions are
unconstitutional. The only way in which
the constitutional powers of a branch of
the Government can be altered is by
amending the Constitution-and any at-
tempt to make such alterations by legisla-
tion alone is clearly without force.
UNDERMINING OUR FOREIGN POLICY
While I firmly believe that a veto of
House Joint Resolution 542 is warranted
solely on constitutional grounds, I am
also deeply disturbed by the practical
consequences of this resolution. For it
would seriously undermine this Nation's
ability to act decisively and convincingly
in times of international crisis. As a result,
the confidence of our allies in our ability
to assist them could be diminished and the
respect of our adversaries for our deter-
893
