[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
and Latin America. Her political
contacts with Europe are steadily ex-
panding; in September, for exam-
ple, Prime Minister Heath became
the first British Prime Minister to
visit Japan, and Prime Minister
Tanaka plans a return visit this fall.
Japan's dependence on Middle East
oil has given her a special interest
in the energy problem. Her partici-
pation in United Nations diplomacy
has grown more active, and she has
shown interest in claiming a perma-
nent seat on the Security Council as
a major power.
In the security field, Japan has for
years relied on her Treaty with the
United States and on the American
nuclear deterrent, which freed re-
sources and energies that would
otherwise have been required for de-
fense. But she has steadily improved
her own conventional defenses, em-
phasizing modernization rather than
size, upgrading her forces in fire-
power, mobility, and anti-submarine
warfare and air defense capability.
Her Fourth Defense Plan, for 1972-
1976, doubles the expenditure of
her Third Plan. This still represents
less than one percent annually of her
Gross National Product, while this
Gross National Product has been
growing at over ten percent a year.
With the reversion of Okinawa,
Japanese forces have now moved
southward to take over its defense.
These are important steps toward
self-reliance and improved capacity
for conventional defense of all Japa-
nese territory.
This was an inevitable evolution.
There was no way that Japan and
Japan's role in the world could go un-
affected by the profound transformation
of the international order over the last
25 years. All our alliances have been af-
fected. The recovery and rejuvenation of
allies has eroded the rigid bipolar system
and given all our allies greater room for
independent action. The easing of the
Cold War military confrontation has
brought other aspects of power-eco-
nomic, in particular-to the forefront of
the international political stage. U.S. mili-
tary protection no longer suffices as the
principal rationale for close partnership
and cooperation. In every allied country,
leadership has begun to pass to a new
generation eager to assert a new national
identity at home and abroad.
Japan's emergence is a political fact of
enormous importance. Japan is now a
major factor in the international system,
and her conduct is a major determinant
of its stability.
As I have indicated in each of my pre-
vious Foreign Policy Reports, I have been
concerned since the beginning of this Ad-
ministration that our alliance relations
with Japan had to keep in step with these
new conditions. We are faced with new
responsibilities toward each other and
toward the world. We are challenged to
respond to this evolution creatively and
together, to keep our alliance on a firm
basis in a new era.
For the U.S.-Japanese alliance remains
central to the foreign policies of both
countries. We are two major powers of the
free world, interdependent to an ex-
traordinary degree for our prosperity and
our security. The United States there-
fore places the highest possible value upon
this partnership, as it has for more than
two decades.
In this year of new commitment to
strengthening our ties with Western Eu-
418
