[234] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
that requires confidentiality if it is to func-
tion effectively. A Member of Congress
must be able to talk in confidence with his
assistants. Judges must be able to confer
in confidence with their law clerks and
with each other. Throughout our entire
history the need for this kind of confiden-
tiality has been recognized. No branch of
Government has ever compelled disclo-
sure of confidential conversations between
officers of other branches of Government
and their advisers about Government
business.
The argument is often raised that these
tapes are somehow different because the
conversations may bear on illegal acts,
and because the commission of illegal acts
is not an official duty. This misses the
point entirely. Even if others, from their
own standpoint, may have been thinking
about how to cover up an illegal act, from
my standpoint I was concerned with how
to uncover the illegal acts. It is my re-
sponsibility under the Constitution to see
that the laws are faithfully executed, and
in pursuing the facts about Watergate I
was doing precisely that. Therefore, the
precedent would not be one concerning
illegal actions only; it would be one that
would risk exposing private Presidential
conversations involving the whole range
of official duties.
The need for confidence is not some-
thing confined to the Government officials.
The law has long recognized that there are
many relations sufficiently important that
things said in that relation are entitled
to be kept confidential, even at the cost
of doing without what might be critical
evidence in a legal proceeding. Among
these are, for example, the relations be-
tween a lawyer and his client, between
a priest and a penitent, and between a
husband and wife. In each case it is
thought to be so important that the parties
be able to talk freely with each other,
that they not feel restrained in their con-
versation by fear that what they say may
someday come out in court, that the law
recognizes that these conversations are
"privileged" and that their disclosure can-
not be compelled.
If I were to make public these tapes,
containing as they do blunt and candid
remarks on many subjects that have noth-
ing to do with Watergate, the confidenti-
ality of the Office of the President would
always be suspect. Persons talking with a
President would never again be sure that
recordings or notes of what they said
would not at some future time be made
public, and they would guard their words
against that possibility. No one would
want to risk being known as the person
who recommended a policy that ulti-
mately did not work. No one would want
to advance tentative ideas, not fully
thought through, that might have pos-
sible merit but that might, on further ex-
amination, prove unsound. No one would
want to speak bluntly about public figures
here and abroad. I shall therefore vigor-
ously oppose any action which would set a
precedent that would cripple all future
Presidents by inhibiting conversations be-
tween them and the persons they look to
for advice.
This principle of confidentiality in Pres-
idential communications is what is at stake
in the question of the tapes. I shall con-
tinue to oppose any efforts to destroy that
principle, which is indispensable to the
conduct of the Presidency.
I recognize that this statement does not
answer many of the questions and con-
tentions raised during the Watergate hear-
ings. It has not been my intention to
attempt any such comprehensive and de-
702
