Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 16 [333]
ters that are urgent, I think, for the Con-
gress not to act would be a very great let-
down for the American people.
I don't mean that the Congress can
solve it, but without the Congress, it is
impossible to solve it. We will work with
you. I will stay here just as long as the
Congress will let me stay.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 10:20
a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (S. 1081) is Public
Law 93-153 (87 Stat. 576).
333 Statement About the Trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline.
November 16, 1973
AMERICA'S energy requirements in re-
cent years have outpaced our capacity to
meet these requirements through the do-
mestic energy resources presently devel-
oped. This has created a dangerous
condition of reliance on foreign energy
sources which could have a profound
effect on this Nation's ability to play an
independent role in the international
arena. It has further created a situation
in which an economy built on access to
plentiful domestic supplies of cheap ener-
gy must now compete in foreign markets
for increasingly expensive energy. It is
clear that the United States has entered
a new era with regard to energy, and as
Lincoln once said, "we must think anew
and act anew."
We must take every available step to
conserve energy in order to avoid the
potential hardships of the short-range
energy shortage. And we must take every
available step to utilize our vast, but un-
tapped, domestic energy resources in
order to avoid dependence on foreign
sources of supply in the long run.
In the past year, I have urged the Con-
gress on several occasions to act on specific
legislative proposals directed to these
ends. S. 1081-the Alaskan pipeline
bill-is the first piece of major legisla-
tion by this Congress dealing with our
energy requirements.
This legislation, which I am signing
today, will at last enable us to construct
the pipeline necessary for vital access to
the rich oil deposits located on the North
Slope of Alaska. When completed in 1977,
the pipeline will initially carry 600,000
barrels of oil per day, and eventually 2
million barrels of oil per day on its way to
the continental United States. This is an
amount equal to over 11 percent of the
current U.S. demand for oil. The project
itself is the single largest endeavor ever
undertaken by private enterprise.
It should be noted that the pipeline will
be constructed and operated under the
most rigid environmental safeguards ever
devised for such a project. We can be con-
fident that the Alaskan pipeline will not
require us to sacrifice our environmental
priorities to help meet our energy needs.
While I am extremely gratified that we
can at last begin construction of the
Alaskan pipeline, I am concerned by sev-
eral extraneous and ill-advised amend-
ments added to the bill on the Senate
floor.
One of these amendments grants the
Federal Trade Commission the authority
to itself litigate certain civil matters aris-
ing out of its regulatory activities after
appropriate notification to the Attorney
General. I am advised that this provision
would dangerously decentralize the gen-
945
