[295] Oct. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
EOB so that he can get his work prepared
for the day when he moves from the
House down here to the White House in
terms of his operations here, and of course
over in the Senate they give you an office,
too.
We have had here-the fact of the mat-
ter is, I was talking to Dr. Kissinger at 8
o'clock this morning on the Mideast. We
met for a half hour or so, and we have
had just another hour now, and the Con-
gressman has been briefed on the Mideast
situation because he is going to be leaving
the city. He had engagements that he
made before he knew he was going to have
his new assignment, so he is going to
where Grand Rapids?
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE FORD.
Grand Rapids. I am coming back for
church tomorrow, and then going
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, you are going to
make that?
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE FORD.
Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, good. Well, I told
Hudnut he wouldn't have to pray for you
tomorrow, he could just pray for me. So
now he will pray for both of us.
Then you are going to see your boy in
Denver?
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE FORD.
In Utah.
THE PRESIDENT. Utah.
FORD.
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE
And on to Portland for a speech that I
have planned for about 6 months, and
then coming back Monday.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. Well, this is our
first official meeting since he was nomi-
nated, and I thought you would kind of
like to cover it.
NOTE: The remarks, which began at 10:50 a.m.
in the Oval Office at the White House, took
place during a portion of the meeting when
reporters and photographers were invited to be
present.
Also attending the meeting were Henry A.
Kissinger, Secretary of State, and Alexander
M. Haig, Jr., Assistant to the President.
On the following day, Sunday, October 14,
Representative William H. Hudnut 3d, who
was an ordained minister, participated in a
White House worship service.
296 Remarks on Presenting the Congressional Medal of
Honor to Nine Members of the Armed Forces.
October 15, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
As all of you know, this is a Medal of
Honor presentation. As I was looking over
the record of the last 4 years, I found that
143 Medals of Honor have been pre-
sented during those 4 years. There will be
nine presented today, and the difference
is that this is the first time that a Medal
of Honor presentation will be made in
peacetime, when the United States is at
peace not only in Vietnam but is at peace
with every nation throughout the world.
Now, when we speak of the Medal of
Honor, I would say first that those who
receive that medal in this room honor this
great house and this historic room. When
we speak of the Medal of Honor in re-
lationship to the war, the long and diffi-
cult war in which so many Americans
participated, we realize that how these
men who receive this medal today and
their colleagues, how what they did has
870
