Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
economic grounds alone, the wisdom of
many such seizures. It is not uncommon
for a foreign company, although it is pro-
viding considerable local employment and
paying sizable taxes, to be seized, only to
have the successor enterprise run by the
government, provide less production and
smaller income for the state. Financial
resources often required to subsidize the
operation of seized properties and to main-
tain inflated payrolls could be used much
more beneficially for other, badly needed
local investment.
Expropriations, even when there is fair
compensation, can create deep concern
among those whose resources developing
countries wish to attract-commercial
banks, international lending institutions,
private investors. Such actions tend to
dry up sources of investment for other
purposes.
All these factors—the legitimate pro-
tection of American businesses abroad,
the requirements of international law, the
preservation of a reasonable and mutually
beneficial atmosphere for foreign invest-
ment-led us in early 1972 to define our
policy toward expropriations. We have
made it clear that if an American firm
were seized without reasonable efforts to
make effective payment, we would pro-
vide no new bilateral economic assistance
to the expropriating country. We would
consider exceptions only if there were
overriding humanitarian concerns or other
major factors involving our larger in-
terests. Nor would we support applications
for loans by such countries in international
development institutions.
The book value of U.S. investments in
Latin America has risen to more than $16
billion. But our Latin American friends
point out that the rate of growth of U.S.
investment has been less in their countries
than in Europe and Asia. The difference is
accounted for in part, perhaps decisively,
by the judgment investors make regarding
the relative welcome their investments
will receive.
Changes in attitudes toward investment
will take time. But we believe these
changes are underway in most parts of
the hemisphere, in the private as well
as the public sector. We are moving to-
ward a better understanding that private
investments, properly managed, operating
under reasonable conditions, and sensitive
to the needs and aspirations of the societies
in which they function, can be mutually
advantageous to investors and recipients.
CURRENT PROBLEMS
In October 1969, I said that our policy
toward Latin America would be based
on five principles:
-firm commitment to the inter-Ameri-
can system;
-respect for national identity and na-
tional dignity;
-continued U.S. assistance to eco-
nomic development;
-belief that this assistance should take
the form of U.S. support for Latin
American initiatives and should be
extended primarily on a multilateral
basis;
-dedication to improving the quality
of life in the New World.
Those principles remain as valid today
as when I first stated them. In candor,
however, we must admit that our per-
formance has not always been fully what
we and our friends may have wished. I
believe we can do better in our second
term. I am determined that we shall do
better. We owe it to those who created
and passed along the unique inter-Ameri-
441
