[339] Nov. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
sustained and serious action and coopera-
tion by millions of men and women if we
are to achieve our objective, and that
means millions of Americans across this
land listening to me tonight.
Let me conclude by restating our over-
all objective. It can be summed up in one
word that best characterizes this Nation
and its essential nature. That word is "in-
dependence." From its beginning 200
years ago, throughout its history, America
has made great sacrifices of blood and also
of treasure to achieve and maintain its in-
dependence. In the last third of this cen-
tury, our independence will depend on
maintaining and achieving self-sufficiency
in energy.
What I have called Project Independ-
ence 1980 is a series of plans and goals
set to insure that by the end of this decade,
Americans will not have to rely on any
source of energy beyond our own.
As far as energy is concerned, this
means we will hold our fate and our fu-
ture in our hands alone. As we look to
the future, we can do so, confident that
the energy crisis will be resolved not only
for our time but for all time. We will once
again have plentiful supplies of energy
which helped to build the greatest indus-
trial nation and one of the highest stand-
ards of living in the world.
The capacity for self-sufficiency in en-
ergy is a great goal. It is also an essential
goal, and we are going to achieve it.
Tonight I ask all of you to join together
in moving toward that goal, with the
spirit of discipline, self-restraint, and unity
which is the cornerstone of our great and
good country.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. The address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television. An advance text of his address was
released on the same day.
The White House also released a fact sheet
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
energy policy outlined in the President's ad-
dress. Participants in the news briefing were
John A. Love, Director of the Energy Policy
Office, and John C. Sawhill, Associate Director
of the Office of Management and Budget.
340 Remarks at the Seafarers International Union Biennial
Convention. November 26, 1973
President Hall, Secretary Brennan, Sec-
retary Dent, distinguished guests, and all
of the distinguished delegates to this
convention:
I first express my appreciation for the
very warm reception you have given me,
and my appreciation to Paul Hall for his
remarks. I have had many opportunities
during the time I have served in this of-
fice to meet many very distinguished peo-
ple, and I can tell you that in an hour-
long-I think it was a little over an hour,
Paul-conversation that we had in the
Oval Office, I found that this man, who
has traveled the world and knows the
world, has as deep a perception of world
problems of anybody that I know.
He is a valuable man for any Presi-
dent or anyone else to know. I am proud
to call him my friend, as I know he is
your friend. And let the record show I
can't run again, so that was meant, every
word of it.
Paul Hall referred to a campaign prom-
ise that I made. Actually, it was made in
Seattle, I think, Paul, and on that occasion
976
