[141] May 3 Public Papers of the Presidents
center complex in Moscow, provi-
sions for third-party arbitration of
disputes, and procedures to prevent
market disruptions.
ment of commercial facilities in each
country, procedures to prevent market dis-
ruption, reciprocal extension of Most
Favored Nation (MFN) treatment, re-
ciprocal extension of commercial credits,
and determination of the general level of
trade. We established a Joint Commer-
cial Commission to maintain contacts, to
resolve issues that might arise, and to be
responsible for carrying out the general
agreement worked out with the Soviet
leaders.
Following the summit, intensive nego-
tiations began under the leadership of U.S.
Secretary of Commerce Peterson and So-
viet Minister of Foreign Trade Patolichev.
In July 1972, a three-year agreement for
the export of United States agricultural
products and for the extension of credits
to finance these sales was concluded. By
October, the principal agreements were
completed: a settlement of the lend-lease
question, a formal trade agreement, and a
maritime agreement.
-We had tried to work out a lend-lease
settlement immediately after World
War II, again in 1951 and in 1960,
but had failed on each occasion. The
main issues were the amount of set-
tlement, whether interest payments
should be included, and the length of
time for repayment. The settlement
reached in October 1972 provides for
a total repayment of approximately
$722 million, to be paid over a period
of about 30 years. This compares
favorably with other settlements of
wartime obligations.
-The trade agreement anticipates a
total exchange over the next three
years of goods worth about $1.5 bil-
lion; it also provides for expanded
business facilities for American firms
in the Soviet Union, a large trade
-Each country will reduce tariffs on
the other's imports, so that the level
of tariff charges is about the same as
that charged against the products of
any other country (MFN treatment).
This had been the practice in Soviet-
American relations from 1935 to
1951, when it was terminated during
the Korean War. Extension of Most
Favored Nation treatment is consist-
ent with the principles of the Gen-
eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT).
-The October agreement also provides
for the reciprocal extension of credit
arrangements, customary in financing
an expansion of exports. I authorized
the Export-Import Bank to engage
in credit transactions with the Soviet
Union, and the Soviet Foreign Trade
Bank and other Soviet organizations
will provide credits to American
businesses.
-An agreement on maritime relations
signed on October 14, 1972, was an-
other essential element to the orderly
expansion of commerce. We agreed
to ease procedures for access of So-
viet and American ships to each
other's ports. The agreement also
provides that the ships of each side
will carry equal and substantial
shares of future oceanborne com-
merce. And it provides for a system
of equitable freight rates.
These agreements open the way not
only for a prompt invigoration of trade
but also for developing these relations into
a permanent component of the overall
relationship projected at the summit. It is
372
