Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 30 [134]
mediately ordered an investigation by
appropriate Government authorities. On
September 15, as you will recall, indict-
ments were brought against seven defend-
ants in the case.
As the investigations went forward, I
repeatedly asked those conducting the
investigation whether there was any rea-
son to believe that members of my Ad-
ministration were in any way involved. I
received repeated assurances that there
were not. Because of these continuing re-
assurances, because I believed the reports
I was getting, because I had faith in the
persons from whom I was getting them, I
discounted the stories in the press that
appeared to implicate members of my
Administration or other officials of the
campaign committee.
Until March of this year, I remained
convinced that the denials were true and
that the charges of involvement by mem-
bers of the White House Staff were false.
The comments I made during this period,
and the comments made by my Press Sec-
retary in my behalf, were based on the
information provided to us at the time
we made those comments. However, new
information then came to me which per-
suaded me that there was a real possibility
that some of these charges were true, and
suggesting further that there had been an
effort to conceal the facts both from the
public, from you, and from me.
As a result, on March 21, I personally
assumed the responsibility for coordinat-
ing intensive new inquiries into the matter,
and I personally ordered those conducting
the investigations to get all the facts and
to report them directly to me, right here
in this office.
I again ordered that all persons in the
Government or at the Re-Election Com-
mittee should cooperate fully with the
FBI, the prosecutors, and the grand jury.
I also ordered that anyone who refused
to cooperate in telling the truth would be
asked to resign from Government service.
And, with ground rules adopted that
would preserve the basic constitutional
separation of powers between the Con-
gress and the Presidency, I directed that
members of the White House Staff should
appear and testify voluntarily under oath
before the Senate committee which was
investigating Watergate.
I was determined that we should get
to the bottom of the matter, and that the
truth should be fully brought out-no
matter who was involved.
At the same time, I was determined
not to take precipitate action and to
avoid, if at all possible, any action that
would appear to reflect on innocent
people. I wanted to be fair. But I knew
that in the final analysis, the integrity of
this office-public faith in the integrity
of this office—would have to take priority
over all personal considerations.
Today, in one of the most difficult de-
cisions of my Presidency, I accepted the
resignations of two of my closest associates
in the White House-Bob Haldeman,
John Ehrlichman-two of the finest public
servants it has been my privilege to know.
I want to stress that in accepting these
resignations, I mean to leave no implica-
tion whatever of personal wrongdoing on
their part, and I leave no implication to-
night of implication on the part of others
who have been charged in this matter.
But in matters as sensitive as guarding
the integrity of our democratic process,
it is essential not only that rigorous legal
and ethical standards be observed but
also that the public, you, have total con-
fidence that they are both being observed
and enforced by those in authority and
329
