Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
present time, however, continental port
facilities are inadequate to handle our
import requirements.
Because of our limited port capacity,
the super-tankers presently used for petro-
leum transport cannot be off-loaded any-
where on our Atlantic coast. I have
therefore proposed measures to authorize
the construction and operation of deep-
water port facilities in a manner con-
sistent with our environmental priorities
and consonant with the rights and respon-
sibilities of the States involved.
We must not delay this important legis-
lation. To do so would further delay the
economical import of petroleum and
would mean increased costs to the Ameri-
can consumer, unnecessary threats to our
coastal environment, and further loss of
revenues to Canadian and Caribbean
ports which are already capable of off-
loading large super-tankers.
NATURAL GAS
For several years Federal regulation of
natural gas has helped to keep the price
of that product artificially low. Large in-
dustrial consumers have welcomed this
system of regulations-it has helped them
to hold their fuel costs down, and since
natural gas is the cleanest of our fossil
fuels, it has also enabled them to meet
environmental standards at an artificially
low cost. This system of regulation, how-
ever, has also had the unfortunate result
of discouraging producers from expand-
ing supplies. As a result of high consump-
tion by industrial uses coupled with the
reluctance of producers to explore and
develop new sources of natural gas, we
now face a natural gas shortage.
I have therefore proposed that we begin
a gradual move to free market prices for
natural gas by allowing the price of new
supplies of domestic natural gas to be
determined by the competitive forces of
the marketplace. This action should pro-
vide a secure source of natural gas at a
price significantly lower than alternative
sources. While there may be an increase
in the price of natural gas over the short
term that increase should be modest.
SURFACE MINING
Our most abundant domestic source of
energy is coal. We must learn to use more
of it, and we must learn to do so in a
manner which does not damage the land
we inhabit or the air we breathe.
Surface mining is both the most eco-
nomical and the most environmentally
destructive method of extracting coal. The
damage caused by surface mining, how-
ever, can be repaired and the land re-
stored. I believe it is the responsibility of
the mining industry to undertake such
restorative action and I believe it must be
required of them.
I have proposed legislation to establish
reclamation standards which would regu-
late all surface and underground mining
in this country. These standards would be
enforced by the States. I call again for
enactment of this proposal, for it would
enable us to increase the supply of a highly
economic fuel while avoiding the severe
environmental penalties which we have
often paid in the past.
REORGANIZATION OF FEDERAL ENERGY
EFFORT
The four energy bills discussed above
can and should be passed by the Congress
this year. There are three additional meas-
ures proposed by the Administration
769
