Richard Nixon, 1973
I
Mar. 1 [61]
related disabilities have been raised on two
occasions, and more than 2 million vet-
erans of all wars now receive this benefit.
The service-disabled veteran deserves
special concern. In addition to top-prior-
ity consideration in medical care, my
budget calls for VA outlays to provide dis-
abled Vietnam-era veterans with voca-
tional rehabilitation, housing grants, and
specially equipped automobiles to be
nearly doubled in 1974 compared to their
1971 level. Disability compensation is also
being intensively reviewed to ensure that
disabled veterans will receive compensa-
tion payments which fully recognize their
earnings impairment.
VA guaranteed home loans for veterans
have risen by almost two-thirds since we
took office. And high-priority job pro-
grams have decreased the unemployment
rate among Vietnam-era veterans by al-
most one-third during the past year alone.
Dramatic progress has been made in the
veterans medical care program. A high
level of construction and modernization of
VA medical facilities has been carried on.
The total number of medical care person-
nel staffing VA facilities has increased by
one-sixth since 1969. The total number
of veterans treated-both in VA facilities
and as outpatients—has risen to new highs.
Beneficiaries treated as hospital inpatients
will go over the million mark in fiscal 1974
for the first time. Outpatient visits will
climb to almost 14,000,000-about twice
the level of 1969.
Since 1969, there has also been a steady
shortening of the average length of stay
in VA hospitals, a highly desirable objec-
tive from every viewpoint. This means
that VA hospitals have fewer patients in
bed on an average day, with shorter wait-
ing lists, even though the total number of
patients treated has gone up.
Misunderstanding these statistics, some
have sought to establish by law a numeri-
cal minimum average daily patient census
in VA hospitals. But such a fixed daily
census would represent a backward step:
it would force a sharply increased length-
of-stay—an effect that is medically, eco-
nomically, and socially undesirable. It is
far better that our veterans be restored to
their families and jobs as rapidly as
feasible, consistent with good medical
care. A fixed patient census would tie the
hands of those seeking to serve veterans'
health needs; I urge the Congress not to
enact such a requirement.
The Congress is now studying several
bills involving the VA pension program
and cemetery and burial benefits for vet-
erans. I hope that the Congress will work
to see that the veterans pension program
is realistically structured and compatible
with other major income maintenance
programs. On the burial benefits ques-
tion, I urge that legislative action be
deferred until completion of a study cur-
rently being conducted by the Administra-
tor of Veterans Affairs to determine the
most equitable approach to improving
burial and cemetery benefits for veterans.
The Administrator's recommendations
will be made available to the Congress in
the near future.
CONSUMER AFFAIRS
The self-reliance and resourcefulness
of our people when they enter the market-
place as consumers, the generally high
standard of ethics and social respon-
sibility upheld by business and industry,
and the restrained intervention of gov-
ernment at various levels as a vigorous
but not heavyhanded referee of com-
merce that combination of factors, in
145
