Richard Nixon, 1973
May 16 [154]
ical party, not from one administration,
not from one Congress, but from a bi-
partisan group of recognized experts,
working in a nonpartisan atmosphere
and broadly enough based to give their
recommendations the full authority of
manifest impartiality.
Let me stress that this new Commission
is in no way competitive with the Senate's
Ervin committee. The new Commission
will draw on information being developed
by the Ervin committee, and also on other
studies of past campaign abuses. But its
own central focus will be on the future-
on how not only Presidential elections but
also Congressional elections can most ef-
fectively be reformed.
Campaigns have changed drastically in
the past century, and even in the past
generation. Television, the rise of profes-
sional campaign management firms, jet
air travel, sophisticated polling tech-
niques, skyrocketing costs, all have had a
powerful impact on the way campaigns
are conducted. As in so many other areas
of our life, the sheer size of modern cam-
paigns has contributed to the size of the
problem and to the magnitude of the
abuses.
There will be a temptation to attempt
reforms piecemeal; this, I believe, would
be a mistake. The reforms needed are
sweeping rather than scattered, and each
should be considered in relation to the
others. We should think in terms of noth-
ing less than a complete reexamination of
our system of elections and campaign
practices.
Scores, perhaps hundreds, of ideas for
various election reforms have already been
seriously and responsibly put forward.
Many are now pending before the Con-
gress. The principal need is to sort through
these ideas, to develop such additional
ideas as may be appropriate, and to de-
sign a comprehensive reform of the cam-
paign system so that in its totality it will
work, and work fairly and honestly.
It would be premature to predict what
a Commission such as the one I propose
might recommend. But these are a few
examples of the kinds of reform it would
certainly consider:
-strict limits on the size of individual
campaign contributions;
-strict limits on the size of campaign
contributions or the amount of cam-
paign assistance that can be given
by business, labor, or professional
organizations;
-strict limits on cash contributions;
-tightened control over the activities
of multiple organizations working for
the same candidate;
-shorter election campaigns;
-new disclosure rules that would
simplify not only the filing of reports
but also the public discovery of what
was important in those reports;
-reducing the cost of reaching the pub-
lic, as, for example, by making free
radio and television time available to
candidates, or by revision of the equal
time requirements that now restrict
broadcasters in their campaign
coverage;
-new Federal laws that would make
illegal, practices that now are only
unethical; and finally,
-the establishment of an independent
Federal Elections Commission, with
its own enforcement powers.
It is important that these reforms stay
within the spirit as well as the letter of
the Constitution, that they not unduly
infringe either the rights of the States
or the First Amendment rights of indi-
viduals to freedom of expression and free-
535
