[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
answers to those with honest concerns
about this source of power.
Our well-established nuclear tech-
nology already represents an indispensa-
ble source of energy for meeting present
needs. At present there are 30 nuclear
power plants in operation in the United
States; of the new electrical generator
capacity contracted for during 1972, 70
percent will be nuclear powered. By 1980,
the amount of electricity generated by
nuclear reactors will be equivalent to 1.25
billion barrels of oil, or 8 trillion cubic
feet of gas. It is estimated that nuclear
power will provide more than one-
quarter of this country's electrical pro-
duction by 1985, and over half by the year
2000.
Most nuclear power plants now in op-
eration utilize light water reactors. In
the near future, some will use high tem-
perature gas-cooled reactors. These tech-
niques will be supplemented during the
next decade by the fast breeder reactor,
which will bring about a 30-fold increase
in the efficiency with which we utilize our
domestic uranium resources. At present,
development of the liquid metal fast
breeder reactor is our highest priority
target for nuclear research and
development.
Nuclear power generation has an ex-
traordinary safety record. There has
never been a nuclear-related fatality in
our civilian atomic energy program. We
intend to maintain that record by increas-
ing research and development in reactor
safety.
The process of determining the safety
and environmental acceptability of nu-
clear power plants is more vigorous and
more open to public participation than
for any comparable industrial enterprise.
Every effort must be made by the Govern-
ment and industry to protect public health
and safety and to provide satisfactory
At the same time, we must seek to avoid
unreasonable delays in developing nuclear
power. They serve only to impose un-
necessary costs and aggravate our energy
shortages. It is discouraging to know that
nuclear facilities capable of generating
27,000 megawatts of electric power which
were expected to be operational by 1972
were not completed. To replace that gen-
erating capacity we would have to use the
equivalent of one-third of the natural gas
the country used for generating electricity
in 1972. This situation must not continue.
In my first Energy Special Message in
1971, I proposed that utilities prepare
and publish long-range plans for the sit-
ing of nuclear power plants and trans-
mission lines. This legislation would pro-
vide a Federal-State framework for
licensing individual plants on the basis of
a full and balanced consideration of both
environmental and energy needs. The
Congress has not acted on that proposal.
I am resubmitting that legislation this
year with a number of new provisions to
simplify licensing, including one to re-
quire that the Government act on all com-
pleted license applications within 18
months after they are received.
I would also emphasize that the private
sector's role in future nuclear develop-
ment must continue to grow. The Atomic
Energy Commission is presently taking
steps to provide greater amounts of en-
riched uranium fuel for the Nation's nu-
clear power plants. However, this expan-
sion will not fully meet our needs in the
1980's; the Government now looks to pri-
vate industry to provide the additional
capacity that will be required.
Our nuclear technology is a national
asset of inestimable value. It is essential
310
