[171] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
of Liberia as an asylum for black men was
born in the minds of Americans, and where
else do you have a capital city of one country
named after a President of another?
But what I ask now: What will be the nature
of our special relationship in the future, and
very special relationship at that? Will it mean
more than strategic expediency? Will it mean
more than unwavering support at every inter-
national forum, or will the friendship between
the United States and Liberia come to rest, in
fact, upon a solid fulcrum of purpose, of
progress, and of continuity as we face the
future?
President Nixon has stated, and we are
heartened by his statement, that in the years
ahead the United States will not only maintain
old friendships, but will also reach out for new
relationships. We are particularly heartened by
that, because as old and trusted friends, we hope
the United States and Liberia will indeed con-
tinue in very special ways to reach out for
each other.
In Liberia, however, we are determined to-
day to take the first steps in a new direction:
to help ourselves, to lift ourselves. And speed is
truly the symbol of the new Liberia. For while
in other developing countries men would speak
of the revolution, in the Republic of Liberia
our people are seeking a speedy evolution.
Today, Liberians are impatient to proceed
with the work of development and progress.
They are impatient with illiteracy, with poverty,
with hunger, with disease, with the irritating
old problems of social imbalance.
Liberians can no longer tolerate the living
conditions of people, young and old, who must
sleep on mats laid on floors of clay. They find
it intolerable that their children must walk
for miles in the rain to inadequate rural schools.
They find it even agonizing that a majority of
the children cannot go into school at all. They
are truly frustrated by the effects of economic
strangulation.
But there is a compelling question which
arises here. That question is: how? How do
we fulfill the urgent aspirations of our people?
How will we order our national priorities? Just
how will we obtain the necessary facilities for
accelerated development so urgently needed?
There is a twofold answer, Mr. President.
Realistically, we must, with appropriate appre-
ciation, encourage and effectively utilize any
development cooperation and assistance that is
available to us. Then, with greater faith in the
supreme source, we must self-reliantly come to
depend more and more upon ourselves.
We believe the time has truly come to create
new structures and to activate the latent re-
sources of our institutions and peoples so that
we may eventually transform their lives.
Recently in Liberia, we launched a new
effort, the National Fund-Raising Rally. We
called upon our people to consider together
the urgent goals of their own development. We
called upon them to rekindle the pioneering
spirit of self-reliance. We called upon our peo-
ple to reawaken within themselves a new na-
tional consciousness. And they have responded,
Mr. President.
On a sunny day a few weeks ago, after 9
months of voluntary contributions, yielding
about $4.5 million, the people of Liberia under-
took simultaneous groundbreaking ceremonies
across the country for the construction of farm-
to-market roads, for schools, for hospitals, and
for clinics.
It was much more than a symbolic venture.
These people have truly inspired themselves
with this unprecedented effort to create a more
decent and respectable way of life, thus en-
hancing their human dignity.
But in the largest sense, we understand, too,
that our praise and our resolve are the heart of
this whole matter. We have seized the faith to
uphold the free heritage of a small but proud
nation. We have assumed the responsibility to
preserve that heritage, not only for Liberia but
also for citizens of the world, for the fate of
mankind is our challenge.
When Richard and Pat Nixon visit Liberia
again and we hope they soon do they will
find an energized republic on the move. They
will meet a nation not looking only beyond the
horizon for ideas and resources but working
primarily herself with imagination, with zest,
and with zeal, with creativity and productivity,
to uplift the standard of human life.
Richard and Pat Nixon will meet a republic
caught up in the spirit of pride, of real inde-
pendence, and of self-reliance, a manifestation
of the unique American spirit, somehow
securely embedded in the African dream.
Men of all times have dreamed dreams,
576
