Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 1 [61]
channel much more of our higher educa-
tion support through students themselves,
including a new grant program which
would increase funds provided to $948
million and the number assisted to over
1,500,000 people—almost a five-fold in-
crease over the current academic year.
These proposals would help to ensure
for the first time that no qualified student
seeking postsecondary education would be
barred from attaining it by a lack of
funds-and they would at the same time
reinforce the spirit of competition among
institutions that has made American
higher education strong. I urge their
prompt enactment.
As we work to eliminate the unneces-
sary bureaucratic constraints currently
hampering Federal education aid, we will
also be devoting more attention to educa-
tional research and development through
the new National Institute of Education.
Funding for NIE will increase by almost
50 percent in fiscal year 1974, reaching
$162 million.
Finally, in order to enhance the diver-
sity provided by our mixed educational
system of public and private schools, I
will propose to the Congress legislation
to provide a tax credit for tuition pay-
ments made by parents of children who
attend non-public elementary and second-
ary schools.
MANPOWER
The Federal manpower program is a
vital part of our total effort to conserve
and develop our human resources.
Up to the present time, however, the
"manpower program" has been not a uni-
fied effort, but a collection of separate
categorical activities, many of them over-
lapping. These activities now include such
programs as Manpower Development and
Training Act Institutional Training pro-
grams, on-the-job training, Neighborhood
Youth Corps, Public Service Careers,
Operation Mainstream, and the Con-
centrated Employment Program. The net
effect of several such programs operating
in a single city seldom amounts to a co-
herent strategy for meeting the needs of
people in that community.
While many well-run local programs
are more than worth what they cost, many
other individual projects are largely in-
effective and their failure wastes money
which could be used to bolster the solid
accomplishments of the rest.
Manpower programs ought to offer
golden "second chances" for the less for-
tunate to acquire the skills and work
habits which will help them become self-
supporting, fully productive citizens. But
as presently organized and managed, these
second chance opportunities too often be-
come just another dead-end exercise in
frustration, rather than a genuine entree
into a good job.
I believe that the answer to much of
this problem lies in our program of Man-
power Revenue Sharing-uniting several
previously fragmented manpower activi-
ties under a single umbrella and then giv-
ing most of the responsibility for running
this effort to those governments which
are closest to the working men and women
who need assistance. In the next 16
months, administrative measures will be
taken to institute this needed reform of
the manpower system within the present
legal framework.
Manpower Revenue Sharing assistance
will be freed from unnecessary Federal
constraints, and aimed at developing jobs,
equipping unemployed workers with use-
ful work skills, and moving trainees into
regular employment.
139
