Richard Nixon, 1973
May 25 [167]
that he has these unusual qualifications,
of having been an Under Secretary of
State and Secretary of Defense, that I
have invited him to be a member of the
National Security Council so that he can
give us the benefit of his judgment on the
critical national security issues involving
foreign policy where he has such great
expertise and experience.
Now, in the law enforcement field, just
to remind some of you that may have
forgotten how much he has done, Presi-
dent Eisenhower appointed him to be a
U.S. Attorney in Massachusetts. He made
a distinguished record in a fight against
organized crime, so distinguished, as a
matter of fact, that he went on to elective
victories in the State of Massachusetts.
And in that case, he was elected both to
the office of lieutenant governor and also
to the office of attorney general of his
State.
As a matter of fact, I was just thinking
of his background and how distinguished
it is, the years that he has spent in political
and public life, and I was thinking of my
own, and I was thinking of how similar it
was in some ways and how different in
others. And it is different, very different
in one way. He has been able to do some-
thing that I have never been able to do.
He has carried Massachusetts twice.
But not simply because of that political
success and not simply because of his
broad experience in government and his
experience in the law, with his magnificent
record at the Harvard Law School and
then as a law clerk to two of the great
judges of the Court, but because of the
man he is, of his character, I think he
will be one of the finest men, one of the
ablest men ever to hold the office of At-
torney General of the United States.
I am very proud to present him. And
the Chief Justice will now administer the
oath.
[At this point, Chief Justice of the United
States Warren E. Burger administered the oath
of office. The President then resumed speak-
ing.]
The Attorney General has not been
able to make any public statements about
his new position until the Senate in its
wisdom finally approved him or gave its
advice and consent to the President for his
approval in nomination.
But after all of those days of silence,
except before a Senate committee, I think
we would all like to have a few words
from the Attorney General of the United
States.
[At this point, Attorney General Richardson
responded to the President's remarks. The
President then resumed speaking.]
The Attorney General and Mrs. Rich-
ardson would like to meet all of you who
do not have any great matters pending be-
fore the courts at the moment or to discuss
with the Attorney General, in the State
Dining Room, and there will be coffee
served. And while most of you have known
him before, you have not known him as
the Attorney General of the United States,
and we are proud to have him as our
guest in that capacity today.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Attorney General Richardson responded to
the President's remarks as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Mr. Chief Jus-
tice Burger, Mrs. Burger, my Cabinet col-
leagues, Members of the Senate and of the
House, friends from Massachusetts, from the
Department of State, from the Department
of HEW, from the Department of Defense,
from the Department of Justice, friends:
First, Mr. President, I would like to say that
567
