Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
critical task facing us now is to carry for-
ward the work of reordering the world
economy to make it more responsive to
the needs and realities of our time. We
must develop new rules for international
economic activity that reflect changing
circumstances. Nations must share the re-
sponsibility for making the system work
so that all can benefit from a more open
and equitable world economy. All nations
must work together cooperatively so that
we can move into a new era of broadly
shared prosperity.
Our goals will be to:
-carry forward negotiations in the
Committee of Twenty to devise a
monetary system that meets the needs
of all nations;
-begin multilateral negotiations aimed
at substantial reduction of barriers to
open trade and improvement of the
trading system;
-widen public understanding of our
international economic goals and ob-
tain necessary legislative authority
for our active participation in build-
ing a stronger world economy;
-expand cooperation with the lower
income countries to help their de-
velopment efforts through improved
aid policies and by opening the in-
ternational system to their more ef-
fective participation;
-continue to broaden economic ex-
changes with the Soviet Union, the
People's Republic of China, and the
nations of Eastern Europe.
We must take advantage of the founda-
tion laid in 1972 to build an international
economic structure that will promote
healthy competition, enhance prosperity
for us and other countries, and contribute
to a peaceful world order in the decades
to come.
PART VI: MAINTAINING
SECURITY
-Defense Policy
-Arms Control
DEFENSE POLICY
Of all the changes in the international
situation over the postwar period discussed
in this Report, one of the most funda-
mental has been the shift in our strategic
position.
THE CHALLENGE WE FACED
When I entered office we faced a situa-
tion unique in American postwar experi-
ence. An era was behind us. In the
immediate aftermath of World War II
challenges to our security could be met
with the assurance that our strategic
nuclear position was overwhelmingly
superior. By January 1969, the United
States no longer enjoyed this strategic
preponderance.
The Soviet Union had embarked on a
formidable expansion of its nuclear ar-
senal. We could chart with some certainty
when the Soviet Union would surpass us
in numbers of intercontinental and sub-
marine launched ballistic missiles; we
could also project when they could close
the technological gap in strategic weap-
ons. Our own offensive building program
had virtually ceased, as we had shifted
our effort to qualitative improvements.
We had developed a concept for ballistic
missile defense of our territory, but had
no active deployment. We faced a negoti-
ation on strategic arms controls, but had
only begun to analyze the relationship to
strategic weapons decisions.
At the same time, our spending for
477
