Richard Nixon, 1973
July 26 [221]
dential election of 1972." Some of the
records that might arguably fit within
that subpoena are Presidential papers that
must be kept confidential for reasons
stated in my letter of July 6th. It is quite
possible that there are other records in
my custody that would be within the am-
bit of that subpoena and that I could, con-
sistent with the public interest and my
Constitutional responsibilities, provide to
the Select Committee. All specific requests
from the Select Committee will be care-
fully considered and my staff and I, as we
have done in the past, will cooperate with
the Select Committee by making avail-
able any information and documents that
can appropriately be produced. You will
understand, however, I am sure, that it
would simply not be feasible for my staff
and me to review thousands of documents
to decide which do and which do not fit
within the sweeping but vague terms of
the subpoena.
It continues to be true, as it was when
I wrote you on July 6th, that my staff
is under instructions to cooperate fully
with yours in furnishing information
pertinent to your inquiry. I have directed
that executive privilege not be invoked
with regard to testimony by present and
former members of my staff concerning
221
possible criminal conduct or discussions
of possible criminal conduct. I have
waived the attorney-client privilege with
regard to my former Counsel. In my July
6th letter I described these acts of coopera-
tion with the Select Committee as "genu-
ine, extensive and, in the history of such
matters, extraordinary." That coopera-
tion has continued and it will continue.
Executive privilege is being invoked only
with regard to documents and recordings
that cannot be made public consistent
with the confidentiality essential to the
functioning of the Office of the President.
I cannot and will not consent to giving
any investigatory body private Presiden-
tial papers. To the extent that I have
custody of other documents or informa-
tion relevant to the work of the Select
Committee and that can properly be made
public, I will be glad to make these avail-
able in response to specific requests.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, Select
Committee on Presidential Campaign Activi-
ties, United States Senate, Washington, D.C.
20510]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated July 25,
1973, was released July 26.
Letter Responding to a District Court Subpoena
Requiring Production of Presidential Tape
Recordings and Documents. July 26, 1973
Dear Judge Sirica:
White House Counsel have received on
my behalf a subpoena duces tecum issued
out of the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia on July 23rd
at the request of Archibald Cox. The
subpoena calls on me to produce for a
Grand Jury certain tape recordings as
well as certain specified documents. With
the utmost respect for the court of which
you are Chief Judge, and for the branch
of government of which it is a part, I
must decline to obey the command of
that subpoena. In doing so I follow the
669
