Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Africa. But in the conditions of the time,
the United States was preoccupied with
African crises. We assumed we would be
drawn into assertive involvement on the
continent economically and politically,
both because of endemic instability and
poverty and the threat of aggressive com-
petition from Communist powers. In an
exuberant phase of our own foreign policy,
the United States exaggerated its ability
to help solve many of Africa's problems.
Conditions had changed by the time I
came into office. The United States clearly
needed a more coherent philosophy for a
long-term, positive role in Africa's future.
There was no question about America's
continuing commitment to the goals of
regional peace, economic development,
self-determination, and racial justice in
Africa. The issue was to focus seriously on
effective ways America could contribute
to them in new conditions.
-The stark, long-term problems which
Africa faced had not disappeared.
But in many countries a new genera-
tion of leaders had come into power
who knew that rhetoric was no sub-
stitute for determined effort to gov-
ern effectively and mobilize their
peoples to meet the tasks ahead.
Given underdevelopment, ethnic
rivalries, and the arbitrary bound-
aries left by the colonial powers, the
political cohesion and stability
achieved by Africa's 41 nations was a
testimony to African statesmanship.
Moreover, African nations had
proven to be the best guarantors of
their own sovereignty. The continent
was not divided into great power
spheres of influence nor did it be-
come an arena of great power
confrontation.
-In the economic sphere, while the
United States was able to maintain
the level of its governmental assist-
ance, the most promising sources of
capital to finance African develop-
ment were now trade and private in-
vestment. The means of American
support for African development
would thus necessarily be more di-
verse, and the first responsibility for
mobilizing energies and resources
would clearly rest on the Africans
themselves.
-The yearning for racial justice in the
southern half of the continent con-
tinued unfulfilled after more than a
decade of violence and excessive
rhetoric. The task now was to devise
new and practical steps toward bene-
ficial change.
Our policy goals in Africa are un-
changed: political stability, freedom from
great power intervention, and peaceful
economic and social development. We
seek positive bilateral relations with Af-
rican nations founded on their self-reli-
ance and independence, and on forms of
support which we can sustain over the
long term.
ECONOMIC PROGRESS IN AFRICA
The principal role America can play
in the continent's future is that of support
for economic development-one of the
primary objectives of all African coun-
tries. This is what Africa's leaders have
told me they need-and this is the field
in which the United States can contribute
most effectively.
Our common objective is Africa's self-
reliance. African efforts, national and re-
gional, are the key to this accomplishment.
461
