Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 14 [121]
very frankly about what you feel our poli-
cies should be. He will also speak frankly
to you and, I can assure you, will report
very frankly to me.
Without getting into anything specific
today, let me give you my general attitude.
We live in a time in world history when
the old organizations and the old ap-
proaches many times do not speak to the
problems that we face today. That is why
we have made historic breakthroughs in
our trips to Peking and Moscow in de-
veloping new relationships to deal with
the world as it is today.
The OAS is a very proud organization.
It is also a very old organization. It began
83 years ago. The organization which later
became the OAS then began, and as my
good friend, Dr. Santamaria, said to me
on a visit to the White House just a few
days ago, the reasons that the organization
was set up 83 years ago, some of them have
changed, some of them are still relevant.
And that is why today I think it is im-
portant for all of us, in this year 1973, to
look at the OAS and make it relevant to
the problems of today and, particularly,
to make it more relevant to the economic
problems which are a major concern to
all of the nations in this hemisphere.
I pledge to you that in these next 4
years in which I will be in this office that
I want to work with you, with all of you
and with all of your governments, toward
the goal that we all share of peace and
justice and progress for all of the mem-
bers of the American family.
And I want to thank my voice here for
getting every word right. [Laughter]
Although my Spanish was not learned
in school, only picked up by my travels
abroad, I will simply say to you, as you
have so often said to me and my wife
when we have visited your country, estan
ustedes en su casa.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5: 12 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Secretary of State William P. Rogers and Dr.
Carlos Sanz de Santamaria, Chairman of the
Inter-American Committee for the Alliance for
Progress, OAS.
121
Remarks at the Annual Dinner of the White House
Correspondents Association. April 14, 1973
President Knap, President Poe, distin-
guished guests, and for tonight, friends:
[Laughter]
It is a privilege to be here at the White
House correspondents dinner. I suppose
I should say it is an executive privilege.
[Laughter]
I am reminded, of course, that tonight
a year has passed, and in that year many
things have happened. But all of us know
that in that year, two men, who, in their
period as President of the United States,
were honored 12 times by the White
House correspondents, have since passed
away, and Mr. President, with your per-
mission I think it would be appropriate
this evening that everyone would rise in
a moment of silence for the memory of
President Harry S. Truman and Presi-
dent Lyndon Baines Johnson.
Thank you.
It is always the special opportunity of
the one who is honored at this dinner to
speak for all the guests in congratulating
those who have received the awards of
the evening, to congratulate the officers
31-870 O- 75-22
287
