[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
We now expect to end the current fiscal
year with no increase of civilian em-
ployees over last year's level and with
80,000 fewer employees than in 1972,
despite the fact that the workload has
increased. I have also acted to delay a pay
increase for all Federal employees for a
period of 60 days in order to hold the
spending line. Clearly, the men and
women in the Federal Government are
doing their fair share in the inflation fight.
Yet the battle for essential budgetary
discipline is still far from won. Although
we are only two months into the new fiscal
year, the Congress has already enacted
programs which would exceed my total
budget by some $2 billion and it is consid-
ering additional legislation which, if
passed, would add another $4 billion of
spending in excess of my budgetary re-
quests. In addition, the Congress has
failed to enact specific program reductions
I have recommended which amount to
nearly $12 billion. Thus, if the Congress
continues to follow its present course, the
American taxpayers will soon receive a
bill for more than $7 billion in increased
spending.
These increases, if allowed to stand,
would drive this year's budget over the
$275 billion mark. That figure would rep-
resent a 12 percent increase over last year's
budget level. A continuation of that trend
would increase the annual budget burden
to some one-half trillion dollars by 1980.
Clearly we need to draw the line against
this tendency. And the time to draw the
line is 1973, when excessive spending
packs an inflationary wallop that is par-
ticularly dangerous.
The Congress has indicated a strong
desire not only to control the total level
of governmental outlays but also to deter-
mine which programs should be curtailed
to achieve those levels. I call upon the
Congress to act while there is still time,
while vital spending bills are still before
it, and while it can still go back and re-
consider actions taken earlier this year. A
great deal of the recent budget busting
has been done not through the conven-
tional appropriations process, but through
"backdoor" funding and mandatory
spending programs approved by legisla
tive committees two approaches which
need to be carefully reviewed. I am fully
prepared to work closely with the Con-
gress in determining the best ways to con-
trol expenditures and in discussing the
particular programs that should be cut
back.
In our joint efforts, however, I continue
to be adamantly opposed to attempts at
balancing the overall budget by slashing
the defense budget. We are already at the
razor's edge in defense spending. In con-
stant dollars, our defense spending in this
fiscal year will be $10 billion less than
was spent in 1964, before the Vietnam war
began. Our defense forces are at the lowest
level since the days just before the Korean
war, and a smaller part of our gross na-
tional product is being spent on defense
than in any year since 1950 Further cuts
would be dangerously irresponsible and I
will veto any bill that includes cuts which
would imperil our national security.
Some people have become so accus
tomed to Federal deficits that they think
a balanced budget is impossible. But bal-
ancing the Federal budget is no pipe-
dream: it is a realistic goal. The figures
for fiscal year 1973 show that we held
spending more than $3 billion below our
target figure-and that the budget was
actually in surplus during the last three
months of the fiscal year.
This record was achieved in part be-
764
