Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 29 [98]
achieve our goal of a new prosperity—
prosperity without war and without in-
flation. I ask you tonight for your sup-
port in helping to win this vitally im-
portant battle.
Let me turn, finally, tonight to another
great challenge we face.
As we end America's longest war, let
us resolve that we shall not lose the peace.
During the past year we have made great
progress toward our goal of a generation
of peace for America and the world. The
war in Vietnam has been ended. After
20 years of hostility and confrontation, we
have opened a constructive new relation-
ship with the People's Republic of China
where one-fourth of all the people in the
world live. We negotiated last with
year
the Soviet Union a number of important
agreements, including an agreement
which takes a major step in limiting nu-
clear arms.
Now there are some who say that in
view of all this progress toward peace,
why not cut our defense budget?
Well, let's look at the facts. Our de-
fense budget today takes the lowest per-
centage of our gross national product
that it has in 20 years. There is nothing
I would like better than to be able to re-
duce it further. But we must never forget
that we would not have made the progress
toward lasting peace that we have made
in this past year unless we had had the
military strength that commanded respect.
This year we have begun new negotia-
tions with the Soviet Union for further
limitations on nuclear arms. And we shall
be participating later in the year in nego-
tiations for mutual reduction of forces in
Europe.
If prior to these negotiations we in the
United States unilaterally reduce our de-
fense budget, or reduce our forces in Eu-
rope, any chance for successful negotia-
tions for mutual reduction of forces or
limitation of arms will be destroyed.
There is one unbreakable rule of in-
ternational diplomacy. You can't get
something in a negotiation unless you
have something to give. If we cut our de-
fenses before negotiations begin, any in-
centive for other nations to cut theirs will
go right out the window.
If the United States reduces its defenses
and others do not, it will increase the
danger of war. It is only a mutual reduc-
tion of forces which will reduce the danger
of war. And that is why we must maintain
our strength until we get agreements un-
der which other nations will join us in
reducing the burden of armaments.
What is at stake is whether the United
States shall become the second strongest
nation in the world. If that day ever
comes, the chance for building a new
structure of peace in the world would be
irreparably damaged, and free nations
everywhere would be living in mortal
danger.
A strong United States is not a threat
to peace. It is the free world's indispen-
sable guardian of peace and freedom.
I ask for your support tonight, for keep-
ing the strength-the strength which en-
abled us to make such great progress to-
ward world peace in the past year and
which is indispensable as we continue our
bold new initiatives for peace in the years
ahead.
As we consider some of our problems
tonight, let us never forget how fortunate
we are to live in America at this time in
our history. We have ended the longest
and most difficult war in our history in a
way that maintains the trust of our allies
237
