[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
developing countries, and organizing re-
lief for victims of disaster.
About one-fourth of the United Na-
tions system's expenditures for these
purposes are devoted to activities of a reg-
ulatory, standard-setting, or exchange-of-
information character. They are, in effect,
global public services managed by the
United Nations system for the world com-
munity. The remaining three-fourths fi-
nance economic, social, and technical
activities to assist the less developed areas
of the world. In an interdependent world
these activities are inseparable from more
traditional actions to promote peace and
security.
Within the United Nations system, a
dozen bodies are involved in the effort to
reduce the gap between the rich and poor
nations. The most important of these is
the United Nations Development Pro-
gram (UNDP), the world's largest tech-
nical assistance program. This vital and
successful activity of the United Nations
merits our continued and substantial
support.
The world community's development
efforts cannot make major headway unless
the present rate of population growth is
slowed. We will continue to support the
United Nations Fund for Population Ac-
tivities and other UN agencies in address-
ing this critical world problem, while also
maintaining our bilateral programs. We
particularly welcome the UN decision to
designate 1974 as World Population Year
and to convene a World Population
Conference.
United Nations specialized agencies are
playing an important role in the multi-
lateral response to the challenges of pro-
tecting the environment. The World
Meteorological Organization (WMO) is
helping to monitor the earth's atmos-
phere; the UN Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization UNESCO
is conducting basic environmental re-
search; the Intergovernmental Maritime
Consultative Organization IMCO) is
implementing rules governing the dis-
charge of oil at sea; and the Food and
Agriculture Organization FAO is con-
ducting programs dealing with soil salin-
ity and soil erosion. At United States ini-
tiative the General Assembly created a
United Nations Environment Fund and
institutional arrangements to direct and
coordinate global action to lend further
impetus to these environmental activities.
The United Nations is increasingly
providing the means for a truly interna-
tional response to tragedies and disasters
around the world. This relatively new and
very important activity of the UN system
deserves the fullest support.
The role of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) in administer-
ing the program of safeguards on the use
of nuclear materials under the 1970 Non-
Proliferation Treaty is an essential con-
tribution to international security.
The world values and needs these many
services of the United Nations system.
But all of them are increasingly costly. It
is essential that they be performed—and
it is also essential that they be performed
in the most efficient and economical man-
ner possible. The ongoing improvement
of UN management practices will con-
tinue to receive priority support and em-
phasis from the United States.
OUR PARTICIPATION IN THE UNITED
NATIONS
The United States played a leading role
in the founding of the United Nations in
1945, and has been a leader in providing
504
