[348] Dec. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think—and I shall not be to blame if I shall
anticipate a little the declaration we are going
to sign tomorrow-it is going to be a doc-
ument of historical importance in its own way,
by the mere fact that it expands the relations
and the principles that govern relations between
countries which are different in many ways, but
which are united in their desire to cooperate
in building friendship between them and in
building a world of cooperation and peace.
Since our talks in 1967, Mr. President, we
have covered a long way to reach such a dec-
laration which puts down fundamental prin-
ciples of international relations. This no doubt
speaks for itself, and it also shows and illus-
trates the changes that have taken place in the
world. And it shows how the peoples of our two
countries, how the leaders of our two countries,
have been able to act in order to enforce mutual
cooperation and international cooperation for
the sake of peace and better cooperation.
Taking as a starting point these changes that
have worked their way in the world, we are able
now to look upon the future with confidence.
Notwithstanding the difficult problems that are
still to be solved in the world, they are to be
solved if all the peoples will act in unity to
build a lasting peace based on equal rights and
mutual respect.
May I ask you to join me in this toast: To
the President of the United States, who all
through these years has an important role to
play in the development of international life
along this path, for the friendship and coopera-
tion between the peoples of the United States
and Romania, for lasting peace and coopera-
tion in the world. To your health, ladies and
gentlemen.
349
Exchange of Remarks With President Ceausescu of
Romania on Signing a Joint Statement of Principles.
December 5, 1973
Mr. President and ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, we have had statements
of principles that we have signed with
major nations-with the Soviet Union,
with the People's Republic of China. In
this case we sign a statement of principles
with Romania-Romania, which in the
scale of size of population, is a smaller
country. But on the other hand, the fact
that this statement of principles is signed
between Romania and the United States
has a very deep significance, and that sig-
nificance is that while the United States
considers its relations with major powers
to be of enormous importance in terms of
building a structure of peace in the world,
we also consider it a cornerstone of our
foreign policy that any agreements that
we make must never be at the expense of
the sovereignty and of the independence
of smaller nations.
Our relations with Romania have been
particularly close during this Adminis-
tration, due to the personal relationship
that I have enjoyed with President Ceau-
şescu, and we have seen growth in our
economic communications as well as in
a number of other areas, as demonstrated
by the agreements that were signed yester-
day. But today, as we complete the sign-
ing of this document, we are, in effect,
saying to the whole world that as far as
the United States is concerned, we
believe that the survival of nations, no
matter how small, no matter how weak
they might be militarily, the survival of
nations, proud of their sovereignty, proud
of their independence, is essential to build-
ing a structure of peace in the world, one
that we can be proud of. And so, for that
reason, we thought that having the cere-
mony here in the Cabinet Room with the
996
