Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 27 [92]
fare from carrying forward his efforts to
manage vocational rehabilitation services
more effectively.
-Finally, by promising increased Fed-
eral spending for this program in such a
large amount, S. 7 would cruelly raise the
hopes of the handicapped in a way that
we could never responsibly hope to fulfill.
Through past increases in funding and
by our efforts to find more effective means
of providing services, this Administration
has demonstrated its strong commitment
to vocational rehabilitation. Funding for
the Vocational Rehabilitation program
will reach $650 million under my budget
for the coming fiscal year, an increase of
75 percent over the level of support when
I took office. Two other sources of fund-
ing for rehabilitation of the handicapped,
the Disability Insurance Trust Fund and
the new Supplemental Security Income
program, will provide another $100 mil-
lion. Altogether during the coming fiscal
year, the Vocational Rehabilitation pro-
gram should provide services for about 1.2
million people—an increase of more than
50 percent over the figure of four years
ago.
This is a good record and one that pro-
vides promise for the future. I shall thus
look forward to working with the Con-
gress in developing a more responsible bill
that would extend and strengthen the
Vocational Rehabilitation program.
This Administration has submitted rec-
ommendations to both the 92nd and 93rd
Congresses which would accomplish these
purposes. The 92nd Congress passed a
bill which contained some of my recom-
mendations but was so inordinately ex-
pensive that I felt compelled to veto it.
In returning S. 7 without my approval, I
ask the 93rd Congress now to turn its at-
tention to the substitute recently offered
by Representative Earl Landgrebe.
My decision to disapprove S. 7 should
be seen by the Congress as more than just
an isolated rejection of a single piece of
unwise legislation. It is part of my over-
all commitment to hold down taxes and
prices. I remind the Congress of that de-
termination, I ask the Congress to con-
sider carefully the implications of spend-
thrift actions, and I urge the Congress to
be more reasonable and responsible in the
legislation it passes in the future.
The White House,
March 27, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the Administration's vo-
cational rehabilitation program and the tran-
script of a news briefing on the President's veto
by Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget.
The Senate sustained the President's veto on
April 3, 1973.
92 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
March 27, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Seventh
Annual Report of the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities, for fiscal year
1972.
It is essential that the disciplines of the
humanities-languages, history, philos-
ophy, literature and ethics among
others-be brought to bear on problems
of contemporary concern, both national
225
