Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
cause of the cooperation of the Congress
in certain areas, and I am grateful for that
cooperation. In other areas, however,
Congressional spending was excessive and
I found it necessary to veto certain meas-
ures and reserve certain funds. I would
have preferred not to have exercised those
powers, but the public interest demanded
that I take such actions. Should those ac-
tions prove necessary again in the months
ahead, I will not hesitate to take them.
STRENGTHENING THE ECONOMY
The fight against inflation must move
ahead on many fronts. Even as we strive
to hold the line on Federal spending, we
must also take a number of additional ac-
tions to strengthen the economy and curb
rising prices.
TRADE REFORM ACT
One of the most important of all the
bills now before the Congress is my pro-
posed Trade Reform Act of 1973. It is
important that final action on this meas-
ure be taken in the next four months.
This legislation represents the most sig-
nificant reform of our approach to world
trade in more than a decade. But it builds
on a strong tradition, steadily maintained
since the days of Franklin Roosevelt, of
giving the executive branch the authority
it needs to represent the Nation effectively
in trade negotiations with other countries.
The weeks and months ahead are a par-
ticularly important time in international
economic history. This month sees the
formal opening of a new and highly im-
portant round of trade negotiations in
Tokyo and the annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund and World
Bank in Nairobi. The Nairobi meeting is
highly important to international mone-
tary reform negotiations. Decisions which
grow out of both of these meetings will
shape the world's economy for many years
to come. The United States can be a much
more effective participant in such discus-
sions if the Congress provides the tools
contained in my proposed trade reform
legislation.
The United States continues to seek a
more open trading world. We believe that
artificial barriers against trade among na-
tions are often barriers against prosperity
within nations. But while the trading sys-
tem should be more open, it should also be
more fair. The trading game must be
made equitable for all countries—giving
our workers, farmers and businessmen the
opportunity to sell to other countries
goods which they produce most competi-
tively and, as consumers, to buy goods
which their counterparts in other coun-
tries produce most competitively. In
bargaining for a more open and more
equitable trading system, our negotiators
must be equipped with authorities com-
parable to those of their counterparts from
other nations.
My trade reform legislation would pro-
vide a number of such authorities and thus
would strengthen our bargaining position.
I emphasize again that the Congress
should set up whatever mechanism it
deems best for closer consultation and co-
operation with the executive branch to
ensure that its views are properly repre-
sented as trade negotiations go forward.
At the same time, I have also requested
actions to ensure that the benefits of ex-
panding international trade are fairly dis-
tributed among our own people and that
no segment of our economy is asked to
bear an unfair burden. My proposals
would give us greater flexibility in pro-
765
