[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
In reviewing the long negotiating
record, certain basic elements should be
kept in mind.
Our preference was always to solve
military questions alone. The best way to
ensure that the South Vietnamese could
determine their own political future was
to leave political questions to them. We be-
lieved that we should not negotiate a
political settlement for South Vietnam.
Furthermore, we knew that military issues
would be easier to resolve than political
issues that would be extremely difficult
given Vietnam's long and bitter history.
We were neither qualified, nor justified, in
detailing specific political formulas such
as governmental bodies or electoral proc-
esses for the Vietnamese people. Nor did
we wish to be directly involved in-or
responsible for the functioning of the
political machinery.
We preferred to concentrate on those
aspects of a settlement that directly in-
volved us—the military activity, with-
drawals, and prisoners. We felt the politi-
cal future should be negotiated by the
South Vietnamese themselves, hopefully
in a calmer atmosphere. We did not seek
to impose a political victory, any more
than a military victory, but we were not
prepared to impose a political defeat.
Until the final stage the North Viet-
namese and their allies insisted on a set-
tlement that would effectively guarantee
that the future of South Vietnam would
be Communist. Public speculation and
commentary to the contrary, they never
agreed to separate military from political
issues until the end of 1972. And when, in
light of this position, we presented com-
prehensive proposals, including political
elements, they never wavered from their
basic goals.
However they packaged their proposals,
the fundamental provisions were a fixed
date for our total and unconditional with-
drawal; the removal of the leadership of
the Government of South Vietnam; and
the installation of Communist rule dis-
guised as a so-called coalition govern-
ment.
This basic philosophic clash, not the
failure to find precise formulas, delayed a
settlement for four years. So long as the
Communists insisted on their basic de-
mands, we were faced at the conference
table with one overriding issue. I ad-
dressed this question in last year's Report:
"Will we collude with our enemies to
overturn our friends? Will we impose a
future on the Vietnamese people that the
other side has been unable to gain mili-
tarily or politically? This we shall never
do."
The only solution offered by our domes-
tic critics was to turn our ally over to the
Communists, either through accepting
their terms in Paris or removing all our
support from South Vietnam. And neither
course provided any guarantee that we
would obtain the release of our prisoners.
Instead as we pursued fruitless nego-
tiations in Paris-we wound down our
presence in South Vietnam responsibly.
Vietnamization reassured our allies and
spurred their initiative. South Vietnam's
steady advance toward self-reliance was
certainly a factor in the enemy's ultimate
decision to negotiate seriously.
In the end we emerged with a settle-
ment that met our basic principles and
gave the South Vietnamese people a
chance to determine their own future.
The First Three Years. In last year's
Report I detailed our public initiatives
and secret diplomacy for peace during the
first three years of this Administration.
Briefly, the record was as follows:
382
