[27] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
erately a few moments ago, because as we
were making up the guest list for this din-
ner, I found that never have we made so
few happy at the expense of so many.
[Laughter] There is always a long list of
people who want to come to state din-
ners and obviously we would always like
to have them all come. But this room,
even with round tables, seats only 110
people, and so, out of the list of 8,000 or
10,000 and perhaps then down to 1,000
that "these must come," tonight from
California, from New York, from the
South, the East, the North, are the 110
most important people in the United
States, Mr. Prime Minister, in honor of
you. [Laughter]
They are here from both of our politi-
cal parties and from all branches of our
government because, first, they honor
your country, with which we are privi-
leged to be allied so closely in so many
different ways, and also because they re-
spect and honor you as an individual, as
the leader of that country.
This is the fourth time we have met
since you became Prime Minister. It is
also the second time that we have had a
dinner in this room. And I think I can best
describe how we in America feel about
you, the Prime Minister of Britain, in a
term that I used, that you may have for-
gotten, in a note I wrote you very early
in your period as Prime Minister when you
had had to make a very difficult decision
about economic policies. And I noted that
it was a decision that, without question,
would not be approved in the immediate
future in your country, but in terms of
the long-range interests, you had deter-
mined was absolutely essential. And I
wrote to you to the effect that however
it came out that I, as an individual, and
as an old personal friend, admired you
for making what I called "a gutsy
decision."
The man we honor tonight, and I say
this in the company of this group, is really,
in his whole political career and as now
the head of government in his country,
a man who has the courage and the far-
sightedness and the vision to make gutsy
decisions, whether it is in the economic
field or whether it is in the field of foreign
policy. He is not blinded by what tomor-
row's headlines may be in a negative sense.
He does not allow those headlines and
what they may be to blind him to the
vision of what the future may be and that
is why all who know anything about Brit-
ain's entering Europe know that it would
not have happened this great historic
development-it would not have hap-
pened had it not been for the Prime
Minister and it would not have happened
except for the courage that he had, the
courage to see that the long-term interest
of his country, as distinguished from the
short-term problems, would be served by
being part of this great European Com-
munity which is now into being.
I think we could say that he is one of
the prime architects of the new Europe
and that the new Europe is an indispen-
sable foundation for what we hope will
be a new world, because it will contribute
to that new world in which peace and, we
trust, progress with freedom will be the
watchword in the years ahead.
I think that what I have said indicates
the respect that we have in this country
for our distinguished guest. I think also
what I have said indicates that, as far as
we are concerned, we consider it a very
great privilege to work with Her Majesty's
Government and with the Prime Min-
68
