Richard Nixon, 1973
June 8 [173]
class will not be subject to a draft. If you
want to go into volunteer service, you can.
Of course, those are points that come
right home to each of you. They affect
your future, your lives.
But let us put it in a broader scope. The
People's Republic of China, its Govern-
ment, rules one-fourth of all the people in
the world. This is the first class in 21 years
that can look to the future with the
thought that those people, one-fourth of
all the people in the world, will not be
cut off from us with isolation and with
the thought that we may be able to work
out a means of communication which will
avoid a confrontation in the years ahead,
which could be disastrous not only for us
but for all the world.
What I am saying to you very simply
is this: There are great differences be-
tween our system and that of the People's
Republic of China. But we live in a world
in which nations with different systems
either have to learn to live with their dif-
ferences or they die with them, and that
is why we went to China. And we believe
that that is what the American people
want. They want to negotiate our differ-
ences and not fight about our differences.
We look at another side of the world.
In one week Mr. Brezhnev will be visiting
the United States, returning the visit that
I paid to the Soviet Union just a year ago.
He has indicated, just a few days ago,
that it was his view that the world was
closer to an enduring and lasting peace
than ever before.
I would state it this way: I believe that
if we do what we can do, if America meets
its responsibilities, and if we get coopera-
tion from other nations like the Soviet
Union, that you, this graduating class,
have the chance to be the first generation
in this century to grow up without a war.
And that is the goal that we intend to
achieve.
All of you know that we have already
negotiated a treaty with regard to the
limitation of defensive nuclear weapons.
We will be negotiating other agreements
with the Soviet Union on the occasion of
this visit. They will be very significant.
They will not settle the differences be-
tween our systems, which will continue to
exist as long as they believe one thing
and we believe something else.
But what they do mean to all of us, and
what they mean particularly to you, is
again that the United States, one great
super power, and the Soviet Union, the
other great super power, instead of con-
fronting each other, instead of rubbing
against each other in critical portions of
the world with the chance of that esca-
lating into war-not small, but nuclear
war-where the United States and the
Soviet Union are learning more and more
to talk with each other, to negotiate with
each other to settle our differences-it is
not going to be easy, not for them, not for
us, but we have established now a means
by which we can move in that direction.
And you, you are the fortunate ones
that will have the opportunity to have the
fruits of these great initiatives we have
undertaken toward the People's Republic
of China, toward the Soviet Union. And
also, you are the fortunate ones that will
have the opportunity in the years ahead to
carry forward with those initiatives, be-
cause peace is never instant; peace can
never be assumed to be lasting.
It is just as essential to work for peace
as it is to work, as we do have to work, in
war, even more so. It is more difficult to
build a peace than it is to wage a war,
and that is the great challenge that we
have accepted in our generation and that
579
