[262] Sept. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
that with your leadership the nation was
moving on after the very difficult and
traumatic experience of war.
I asked your wife, Mr. Prime Minister,
Mrs. Bhutto, what was the spirit of the
people. I said, none of the leaders, none
of the members of Parliament, but the
peasants, the others, the people that
worked the land—were they discouraged,
were they giving up after a war and after
all of the bloodshed and the tragedy, and
now the flood.
And her answer, it seems to me, tells
us something about Pakistan and also
something about human nature generally
that is quite profound.
She said, no, as she visited the areas
most ravaged by the floods and talked to
the farmers and their wives, they did not
talk about the past. They said, yes, the
floods had destroyed their crops for this
year, but the floods had brought new silt
into the land, and the land would be richer
for the crops next year.
And so, rather than looking backward,
they were looking forward. Rather than
letting adversity destroy them, they were
proving the profound truth that from
adversity grows strength.
And this is the story of Pakistan and
of many other countries, including our
own, from time to time. Pakistan has had
more than its share of adversity in recent
years, but out of that adversity has come
a strong people, 65 million in numbers,
and out of that adversity has come a strong
leader, our Prime Minister, who is our
guest today, his wife, and the members
of his official party.
And in paying our respects to him, to
his people, we do so because we have an
official obligation to do so which we wel-
come, but also because of a deep personal
respect which I have tried to convey, be-
cause of a deep personal friendship which
I have tried to convey.
And so I know all of you in this room
and many others who could not be here
would like to join me in our toast to the
friendship between the people of Pakistan
and the people of the United States and
express that friendship by raising our
glasses to the health of the Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:56 pm. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Items 261 and 266.
Prime Minister Bhutto responded as fol
lows:
Mr. President, Mrs Nixon, distinguished
guests, and friends:
Mr. President, you have been most gracious
in your remarks, and you have said that this is
an intimate gathering of friends. I will proceed
from that point.
Since it is an intimate gathering of friends,
with your permission, I would like to tell them
about our discussions, the inner truth of our
talks.
We discussed three matters-economic mat-
ters, cultural matters, and military matters. I
don't know how, but cultural and military mat-
ters got intertwined, perhaps because Dr Kis-
singer was there.
And we discussed these highly complicated
problems. We were told that since military and
cultural matters are interrelated we must know
that Jill St. John is booked for the Soviet
Union and Raquel Welch is earmarked for
China. As far as our old friend Pakistan is
concerned, Tallulah Bankhead is there avail-
able for Pakistan.
THE PRESIDENT. What do we get?
THE PRIME MINISTER. So we said we are old
friends but not in that sense. And then we were
told that that is all we can do. And that also is
true of either Saudi Arabia or Iran.
So we told our friends candidly that what
we are interested in is not obsolete spare parts,
but in red hot weapons. [Laughter]
Mr. President, I have been in your great
country as a student. You have made mention
of it, and my sojourn here was a warm one.
It is here that I came to respect the vitality
of the people. And I remember that on one
798
