Richard Nixon, 1973
July 12 [201]
maintenance for needy adults who are
aged, blind, or disabled. This program,
which I have urged as a necessary change
in the welfare system, will provide a uni-
form floor for assistance to those needy
adults. H.R. 7445 will provide a cost-of-
living increase in the minimum assistance
level and will also assure that no person
will suffer a reduction in income as a
result of the change from existing State
programs to the new SSI program.
Other provisions of H.R. 7445 will as-
sure that several categories of individuals,
such as those in medical institutions who
are now eligible for assistance under the
Medicaid program, will not lose their
eligibility when the new Supplemental
Security Income program becomes effec-
tive. Assistance under Medicaid is essen-
tial to the well-being of many of these
individuals. They must be protected
against the loss of benefits which might
otherwise result from the changes in eligi-
bility requirements and standards that will
accompany the shift from widely varying
State plans to the uniform Federal
program.
I regret that in the closing rush before
the July 4th recess, one clause was writ-
ten into this bill delaying until Novem-
ber 1, 1973, the effective date of Social
Service regulations recently promulgated
by the Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare. This clause would permit
an earlier effective date if the regulations
are approved in advance by certain Con-
gressional committees.
As the Congress knows, neither I nor
my predecessors have been able to accept
such a "coming into agreement" clause
because it infringes on the essential respon-
sibility of the President and the executive
branch, and on the separation of powers
doctrine.
These regulations were drafted in re-
sponse to Congressional intent expressed
last fall when the Congress placed the
ceiling on social service expenditures, and
we will, of course, work cooperatively with
the Congress in considering possible
changes in them.
Despite this reservation, I am extremely
pleased to approve this measure. It should
be good news for millions of our citizens.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7445, approved July 9,
1973, is Public Law 93-66 (87 Stat. 152).
201 Statement About the Final Report of the National
Commission on Fire Prevention and Control.
July 12, 1973
THE National Commission on Fire Pre-
vention and Control has recently com-
pleted a comprehensive, 2-year study to
determine how best to reduce the destruc-
tive effects of fire in this country. The
Commission's final report, called "Ameri-
ca Burning," was presented to me today,
and I want to commend the Commission
members and their capable Chairman,
Richard E. Bland, for this valuable anal-
ysis of the fire safety and fire loss problem.
Indicative of the need for all Americans
to work together to do a better job in
combating the fire menace is the Com-
mission's finding that annual loss of life
and property due to fires is higher per
capita in the United States than in any
other major industrialized country. Each
643
