[250] Sept. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
And then further--and this looks down
the road we gave the go-ahead this
morning for a sharp step-up in the devel-
opment of peaceful uses of nuclear
energy.
Now, there are many old wives tales and
horror stories that are told about nuclear
plants and all the rest. Russell Train was
there: I asked him about the effect on the
environment, to separate out the fears
from what actually the facts were. He
came down on the side of going forward
with the program, the development of
nuclear power, not only having in mind
our present technology but also research
which would allow us to develop nuclear
energy in much more exciting ways, look-
ing to the future, for peaceful purposes.
And in this field, I will be meeting.
myself, next week with members of the
Atomic Energy Commission, along with
the Governor and with Russell Train so
that we can give new impetus to that pro-
gram of the development of nuclear
power for peaceful purposes.
We were the first to make the break-
through in nuclear power for military pur-
poses. We have lagged behind in peaceful
uses. Some nations abroad, while they cer-
tainly do not have our technology, at least
have more thrust here, they have more
drive here in this area than we have.
But the development of nuclear power
for peaceful purposes is to be a major
Administration initiative from now on
through the balance of our term here.
In the field of research also this re-
lates clear back to the strip mining a
moment ago--is the area of research with
regard to the use of coal. Secretary Mor-
ton pointed out in our meeting this morn-
ing that when we think of the energy
sources for the United States, that 4 per-
cent, only 4 percent presently in the
ground, come from oil. 3 percent poten-
tially from natural gas, and of percent
from coal.
The United States, at the present time,
has almost half of the coal reserves of the
world. And the problem only is to get the
coal out in a way that is not too destruc-
tive to the environment, but also to find
the uses for coal, liquification programs,
other programs which the Governor is
quite familiar with and which I am not.
but which he will be glad to fill you in on:
I would simply summarize in this way.
The other day in our press conference
the Governor and I did discuss this, and I
have asked him, once he does have the
time, to perhaps travel abroad and have
an opportunity to survey the situation in
some of these countries himself I was
asked about the developments in the Mid-
east and what that meant to us.
The United States would prefer to con-
tinue to import oil, petroleum products
from the Mideast, from Venezuela, from
Canada, from other countries, but also we
are keenly aware of the fact that no na-
tion, and particularly no industrial nation,
must be in a position of being at the mercy
of any other nation by having its energy
supplies suddenly cut off.
We are going to do the very best we can
to work out problems with the Mideastern
countries or any other countries that may
develop, so that we can continue to have a
flow of imports into the United States of
oil products particularly.
On the other hand, the programs that I
have discussed here today, for the most
part, as you know, deal with developing
within the United States itself the capa-
bility of providing for our energy re-
sources. We can develop those resources.
It can be done within a matter of a very
few years. I am not going to put a time-
754
