[124] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
two countries, and I must say that these feel-
ings were strengthened when we received in
Rome the new American Ambassador a few
weeks ago. That was really an historic moment
for us, and it was a kind of moral victory for
those millions of Italians who came to America
for more than one century to find a job here.
Most of them found this job, and thus they
contributed to the development of this second
homeland. Others were less successful, and we
were thinking especially of these latter Italians
and Italo-Americans when we received with
great joy your new Ambassador, John Volpe,
in Rome.
Mr. President, when you were reelected a
few months ago for a second term with a
great number of votes, we rejoiced on the
other side of the Atlantic for your reelection.
We are very much convinced by what one of
your closest collaborators once said, that is to
say, that the union between the United States
and Europe is the cornerstone of the peace
structure in the world. And when you dedicated
this year as the year of peace and the year of
Europe, we felt that your political commitment
was being met in a faithful manner.
For 25 years now the United States and
Europe have defended the peace against the
war, against new wars, and they have thus
laid the foundations for a world of détente.
Your great prestige, Mr. President, has con-
tributed greatly to this fact, and the great
prestige which you have, not only in Western
countries but also many Socialist countries,
is not in contradiction with the Atlantic secur-
ity policy. On the contrary, this is the logical
development of this policy towards peace in
the whole world.
Today we are confronted by new problems
as you mentioned, and we are going to discuss
these problems during these 2 days. But these
problems should be seen in this prospect: We
want to create a great era in the world, an
era of peace and prosperity where the peoples
of Europe and of the United States may raise
even more their quality of life and not against
the rest of the world, but as pioneers of a uni-
versal and integral democracy.
125 Remarks Announcing Procedures and Developments
in Connection With the Watergate Investigations.
April 17, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have two announcements to make. Be-
cause of their technical nature, I shall
read both of the announcements to the
members of the press corps.
The first announcement relates to the
appearance of White House people be-
fore the Senate Select Committee, better
known as the Ervin committee.
For several weeks, Senator Ervin and
Senator Baker and their counsel have been
in contact with White House representa-
tives John Ehrlichman and Leonard Gar-
ment. They have been talking about
ground rules which would preserve the
separation of powers without suppressing
the facts.
I believe now an agreement has been
reached which is satisfactory to both sides.
The committee ground rules as adopted
totally preserve the doctrine of separation
of powers. They provide that the appear-
ance by a witness may, in the first instance,
be in executive session, if appropriate.
Second, executive privilege is expressly
reserved and may be asserted during the
course of the questioning as to any ques-
tion.
Now, much has been made of the issue
as to whether the proceedings could be
televised. To me, this has never been a
central issue, especially if the separation
of powers problem is otherwise solved, as
I now think it is.
298
