Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 10 [231]
While I am willing to go along with the
restoration of food stamp eligibility, the
particular device used in this bill for
achieving that end is highly undesirable
and must be corrected. In effect, the bill
would require the States to maintain the
records and staff involved in the present
welfare system merely to make the deter-
mination of whether or not a person is
eligible for food stamps, even though that
system is no longer in use for any other
purpose. This provision would perpetuate
a massively complex eligibility determina-
tion process. The result would be high
administrative costs and the potential for
great abuse. I will shortly propose legis-
lation to correct this serious and costly
defect.
I also opposed those provisions of this
act which preclude State approval of loans
and grants under the Rural Development
Act. The effect and intent of precluding
State participation is once again to cen-
tralize decisionmaking authority in the
Federal Government rather than in the
States and localities where it belongs.
Though I respect the wishes of the Con-
gress on this point and will adhere to this
legal prescription, I plan to administer
these new Rural Development Act pro-
grams in a way which will give the fullest
possible consideration to State rural de-
velopment goals and the local priorities
expressed in those goals.
Another feature of S. 1888 requires the
Secretary of Agriculture to continue a
program for sharing the costs of conserva-
tion practices on private lands under the
Rural Environmental Assistance Program.
I stopped funding this program in fiscal
year 1973 because it supported at Federal
expense actions which were short-term in
nature. Fortunately, this new act provides
that the practices supported be of a per-
manent nature and subject to contractual
agreement for maintenance up to 25 years.
I will ask the Secretary of Agriculture to
use this reformed and improved approach
in lieu of the former program.
Finally, this act authorizes a forestry
incentives program to encourage the in-
creased production of timber on small
tracts of private lands. I will ask the Sec-
retary of Agriculture to use this authority
for experiments to determine the most
cost-effective methods for carrying out
commercial forestry on small tracts.
On balance, the Agriculture and Con-
sumer Protection Act of 1973 provides
that the farmer will receive most of his
income in the marketplace, a goal under-
scored in my radio address last February.ยน
Because foreign and domestic markets for
farm commodities are expanding, the
American taxpayer will be a direct bene-
ficiary of these new programs. This new
law is good for the consumer, good for
our growing domestic economy, and help-
ful to our foreign trade balance.
Our Nation has been blessed with a
great ability to meet its food and clothing
needs. The bill I sign today will help
American agriculture continue to meet
our growing needs in the most productive
and economical way possible.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1888 is Public Law 93-86
(87 Stat. 221).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on the Agriculture and Consumer Protec-
tion Act of 1973 by Secretary of Agriculture
Earl L. Butz.
1 See Item 52.
689
