Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 15 [80]
on, and there will probably be a trip in the
fall. But how we select among these, I
have not yet determined.
MANDATORY PRISON TERMS FOR NARCOTICS
TRAFFICKERS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, less than 3 years
ago you signed into law a bill that re-
moved mandatory prison terms for Fed-
eral narcotics convictions, as recom-
mended by an earlier President's crime
commission, and since then 73 percent of
those convicted in Federal cases have re-
ceived prison terms. What evidence is
there that causes you now to go the other
way, to ask for a restoration of mandatory
prison terms for narcotics traffic?
THE PRESIDENT. We have examined
this situation very carefully. Here is what
we have found with regard to this whole
attitude in terms of the restoration of the
death penalty, for example, and the man-
datory prison terms in cases of narcotics
offenders. Let me point out that the man-
datory sentences, as you know, only apply
to hard drugs, heroin. It does not apply
to marijuana. It does not apply to soft
drugs, et cetera, et cetera.
Criminologists have honest differences
of opinion on this, as to whether it will
be more effective or less effective. We
have examined it. We have, as you have
already indicated, accepted a recommen-
dation, and we were moving in one direc-
tion at one time, and now we have looked
at the record since then, and we have
looked at the record over the past 10
years. I will simply summarize it for this
year.
During the sixties, the United States
went far down the road of the permissive
approach to those charged with crime,
and we reaped a terrible harvest, the
greatest increase in crime that this coun-
try has ever had, explosive to the point
that law and order, so-called, became a
great issue in '68. It was still a great issue
in '72.
Now, under these circumstances, I be-
lieve that it is essential that we have not a
permissive approach, but an approach
where certain major crimes are concerned
that the penalties will be ones that will
deter those crimes. It is my belief that
they will.
Let me suggest, also, that my discus-
sions with criminologists bear that out.
We will find some disagreement. I under-
stand there is a commission that will, in a
couple of weeks, recommend that we move
in the other direction. But I will take the
responsibility.
As far as I am concerned, I oppose, as
you know, the legalization of marijuana,
although I have advocated a more equit-
able type of punishment which will fit the
crime. I am for the mandatory criminal
penalties with regard to hard drugs be-
cause I think we have to move vigorously
in this area. And in terms of the capital
punishment, I do not think the Secretary
of State of the United States can make
a statement to the effect that terrorists in
the Sudan should be executed when, if
somebody picks up some diplomat in the
United States, we would give him per-
haps 20 years, 30 years, and then have
him out on parole in 5 years.
So under these circumstances, I am
taking this line. I realize many honestly
disagree. I respect the disagreement. But
that is what I believe. If it doesn't work,
we will try something else.
209
