Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 30 [100]
not a Democratic belief or Republican be-
lief, it is an American principle, and it is
that which I wish you to consider in your
meeting today.
My final point has to do with one that
I covered last night in my remarks, but it
has to do with priorities in the budget and
particularly on defense.
The easy way to talk about a budget is
to say, "Look, my program is a good one,
but that other fellow's, take it out of his."
And particularly right now,
right now, there are
those that say that, after all, we have had
the trip to China, and we have had the
agreements with the Russians, and the
limitation of armaments, and we have
ended the war in Vietnam. As many have
suggested, this is perhaps a year of the
greatest progress in reducing tensions in
the world and working toward a world of
peace that we have had since the end of
World War II. In view of all of that prog-
ress, why don't we cut the defense budget?
And then with $10 or $15 or $20 billion we
can get out of the defense budget, put it
into the problems of the States and the
problems of our cities and our problems
at home.
Let me say, there is nothing I would
rather do more than to do that. There is
nothing a President or a Governor dis-
likes more than to have to veto a spend-
ing bill. We know people like to get the
dough. Why do we stop it?
The reason we stop it, of course, is that,
as Harry Truman has in that desk of his,
"The buck stops..."-where? The Presi-
dent's desk, the Governor's desk, and the
rest.
I am not, incidentally, trying to get
you in a fight with your Governors. That
is your problem. But I am simply saying,
as far as we are concerned, we have to
remember that in this whole area of
priorities—and this is the point that I
wish to make-in this whole area of pri-
orities, we have considered the defense
budget and the domestic budget.
Let me simply say, our defense budget
today, as far as its level of spending is
concerned, takes the lowest percentage of
our GNP in 20 years. Our defense budget
today, insofar as the level of spending is
concerned, is no higher than it was 4
years ago, when you take out the infla-
tion factor.
However, as I indicated a few moments
ago, our spending for domestic programs
is double what it was 4 years ago. So, the
priorities have been changed, and they
should have been changed.
How were we able to change them?
Why have we had success in our new
dialog with the People's Republic of
China, in our new relations with the Rus-
sians? I will tell you why. It isn't because
Chou En-lai liked my handshake. And it
isn't because I particularly liked vodka. I
don't. I think it is a lousy drink. I don't
like champagne either. There are other
things I do like, but not those two.
The point I make is that it is simply
because, when the President of the United
States went to Peking, the government
that rules one-fourth of all of the people
in the world, when the President of the
United States, for the first time, went to
Moscow, the government that rules one
of the most powerful nations the world
has ever seen in terms of nuclear power
and so forth, he was received there, he
was able to negotiate because he repre-
sented a nation that was strong and a
nation that was respected.
The day you send the President of the
United States into the ring with a leader
243
