Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 27 [275]
such a proceeding, as well as access to
adequate discovery techniques under the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
To further assist the examiner, patent
applicants would be required to disclose
all pertinent information at the outset
of the examination proceeding along
with a written memorandum describing
why their inventions are patentable. In
addition, this legislation spells out in con-
siderable detail the duties of inventors,
patent applicants and their attorneys to
bring to the attention of the Patent Office
all relevant information which comes to
their attention during the examination
process.
ACCELERATING AND IMPROVING
DISCLOSURE
A basic premise of the patent system is
that in exchange for commercial protec-
tion of his discovery, an applicant will
disclose the techniques of his invention so
that others may build upon this knowl-
edge. Some critics, however, have sug-
gested that the current patent system is
not bringing forth the full and rapid dis-
closure of technology that it should.
The legislation proposed by the Ad-
ministration would encourage applicants
to expedite the processing of their ap-
plications by granting a period of protec-
tion 20 years from the date the applica-
tion is filed rather than the present 17-
year period from the day a patent is
granted. In addition, this legislation
would require that patent claims be
drafted with greater precision so that
others would have a better understanding
of how to use the invention.
SIMPLIFYING PROCEDURES
The Administration bill also sets forth
several important steps to simplify the
procedures for filing and obtaining pat-
ents. One reform would permit the own-
ers of an invention, not just the inventor,
to file the papers for, and directly obtain,
a patent. This step should remove the
present procedural hurdles to filing of ap-
plications by corporations, universities or
other research organizations.
The bill would also simplify trouble-
some problems of amending applications
and would give the Patent Office greater
flexibility in examining applications con-
taining more than one invention.
ENHANCING THE VALUE OF PATENTS
The legislation I am recommending
would also enhance the value of the patent
grant. The procedural reforms described
above, which are designed to strengthen
confidence in the examination process,
would do much to achieve this goal. But
other, more specific changes are also
needed.
Current law leaves the owners of United
States process patents unprotected against
importers who sell foreign products that
have been manufactured by utilizing proc-
esses developed in the United States. This
law should be changed so that exclusive
sales agents or affiliates of foreign com-
petitors who handle such products will be
considered patent infringers.
The proposed legislation would also
permit the patent owner to settle disputes
over the infringement and validity of his
patent without resorting to expensive and
827
