[79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Under my proposed legislation, block
grants, technical assistance grants, man-
power development grants, and aid for
correctional institutions would be com-
bined into one $680 million Special Reve-
nue Sharing fund which would be dis-
tributed to States and local governments
on a formula basis. This money could be
used for improving any area of State and
local criminal justice systems.
I have repeatedly expressed my convic-
tion that decisions affecting those at State
and local levels should be made to the
fullest possible extent at State and local
levels. This is the guiding principle be-
hind revenue sharing. Experience has
demonstrated the validity of this ap-
proach and I urge that it now be fully
applied to the field of law enforcement
and criminal justice.
THE CRIMINAL CODE REFORM ACT
The Federal criminal laws of the
United States date back to 1790 and are
based on statutes then pertinent to effec-
tive law enforcement. With the passage of
new criminal laws, with the unfolding of
new court decisions interpreting those
laws, and with the development and
growth of our Nation, many of the con-
cepts still reflected in our criminal laws
have become inadequate, clumsy, or out-
moded.
In 1966, the Congress established the
National Commission on Reform of the
Federal Criminal Laws to analyze and
evaluate the criminal Code. The Com-
mission's final report of January 7, 1971,
has been studied and further refined by
the Department of Justice, working with
the Congress. In some areas this Admin-
istration has substantial disagreements
with the Commission's recommendations.
But we agree fully with the almost uni-
versal recognition that modification of the
Code is not merely desirable but absolutely
imperative.
Accordingly, I will soon submit to the
Congress the Criminal Code Reform Act
aimed at a comprehensive revision of
existing Federal criminal laws. This act
will provide a rational, integrated code of
Federal criminal law that is workable and
responsive to the demands of a modern
Nation.
The act is divided into three parts:
—1—general provisions and principles,
-2-definitions of Federal offenses,
and
-3-provisions for sentencing.
Part 1 of the Code establishes general
provisions and principles regarding such
matters as Federal criminal jurisdiction,
culpability, complicity, and legal defenses,
and contains a number of significant in-
novations. Foremost among these is a more
effective test for establishing Federal
criminal jurisdiction. Those circum-
stances giving rise to Federal jurisdiction
are clearly delineated in the proposed new
Code and the extent of jurisdiction is
clearly defined.
I am emphatically opposed to encroach-
ment by Federal authorities on State
sovereignty, by unnecessarily increasing
the areas over which the Federal Govern-
ment asserts jurisdiction. To the contrary,
jurisdiction has been relinquished in those
areas where the States have demonstrated
no genuine need for assistance in protect-
ing their citizens.
In those instances where jurisdiction is
expanded, care has been taken to limit
that expansion to areas of compelling Fed-
eral interest which are not adequately
dealt with under present law. An example
of such an instance would be the present
194
