[246] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
the board members are, I should say-
and in addition to that we are, of course,
increasing supplies on the food front.
My economic advisers tell me that over
the next few months, we should begin to
see some of the benefits from this, and
that is as far as I will go in terms of indi-
cating what that situation would be.
THE TAX STRUCTURE
[10] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. In that connection, do you now feel
that the tax structure should be altered
in any way to help strengthen the econ-
omy and, if so, how?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis, a number
of my advisers, including, incidentally,
Arthur Burns, have strongly recom-
mended that the answer to this whole
problem of inflation is the tax structure,
you know, or there is this gimmick and
that one. And by saying “gimmick,” I
don't mean to say anything disrespectful
to Arthur Burns, because he is very im-
portant to us at this moment, or to Wilbur
Mills, who has talked about some of these
things.
For example, there has been the sug-
gestion, as you know, insofar as the in-
vestment credit is concerned, to have it
in the power of the President to move it
from 3 percent to 15 percent. I think that
is an excellent idea, but there isn't a
chance that Congress is ever going to give
the President that power.
President Kennedy found that out-
Wilbur Mills told me about the conversa-
tion in a very amusing dialog we had in
the office a few weeks ago--when he asked
for the power of the President, then, even
when the Congress was, the Members, in
control of his own party, to move taxes up
and down, depending upon the needs of
the economy.
So, what I would sav. Mr. Theis, is
this: I think a number of suggestions have
been made on the tax front which might
be helpful in the control of inflation, but
there isn't a chance that a responsible tax
bill would be passed by this Congress in
time to deal with that problem.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS AND
COURT RULINGS
[11] Mr. Jarriel Tom Jarriel, ABC
News].
Q. Mr. President, in association with
the legal dispute going on over possession
of the Presidential tapes relating to Water-
gate conversations in your office, you and
your attorneys have said you would abide
only by a definitive ruling of the Supreme
Court in this case. As it moves along, the
definitive ruling an interpretation of
"definitive ruling" takes on great impor-
tance. Would you elaborate for us what
you mean by a "definitive ruling?"
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Jarriel, that
would not be appropriate. I discussed this
with White House Counsel, and as you
know, the matter is now on appeal, and
the appellate procedure will now go to the
Circuit Court of Appeals in the District
of Columbia and, if necessary, further on.
The matter of definitive ruling is one that
will be discussed in the appeal procedure.
and for me, in advance of the discussion,
the briefs, the oral arguments, to discuss
that would be inappropriate.
I think we should come to Mr. Rather
[Dan Rather, CBS News] now.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow on to
738
