Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 6 [71]
71
Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring Slain Foreign
Service Officers. March 6,
Secretary Rogers, Mr. Boyatt, and ladies
and gentlemen of the Foreign Service,
and all of those who are here from the
State Department:
I am very pleased to have the oppor-
tunity to come here to express apprecia-
tion to all of you who have worked in
the cause of peace in this Department,
some for many years and some, of course,
more recently.
I, of course, regret that my presence
here is on an occasion which is mingled
also with sadness. You will note the
plaque that we have just witnessed here a
moment ago, and you will note the last two
names on the plaque.
We have all read what has happened
and heard about it over these past few
days. I think you should know that tomor-
row, in respect to these men who have
died in the service of their country and in
service of the cause of peace for the whole
world, that the flags, not only in embassies
abroad and in the State Department but
all over America, have been ordered to be
at half-mast.ยน I have taken this extra-
ordinary action of lowering flags even
though the individuals involved were not
Members of the Congress or members of
the Cabinet, where normally such action
is only taken, because I think it is well for
the Nation to be reminded of how much
we owe to the men and women who serve
America in the cause of peace as members
of our Foreign Service, in the civilian
activities that we have in farflung areas
around the world.
I think of these two men, Ambassador
ยน By Executive Order 11705 of March 6,
1973.
1973
Noel, Mr. Moore, of the country to which
they are accredited, the Sudan; I think of
the Minister from the Sudan whom I saw
this morning. I know that they were there
in the cause of peace, and I know that the
incident which led to their death was one
that was not of this country's making and
not of theirs, and yet, they were willing to
take this risk. And for their bravery and
for their courage, our country can be very
thankful.
Secretary Rogers had told me a few
months ago that a survey made of the For-
eign Service, in which he had asked what
would be the attitude of a member of the
Foreign Service in the event he were cap-
tured and held hostage-what would be
the attitude as to what our Government
should do. It was unanimous that the
United States Government should not
submit to demands for blackmail or
ransom.
That is a reaction of courageous men
and women. That was the attitude of
these two men. They were willing to risk
their own lives in order that others might
live. They were willing also to have their
Government take a position of no com-
promise with terrorism, because they knew
that once that compromise was entered
into that it could lead to consequences that
would be far worse in the years ahead.
I was noting a well-intentioned com-
ment by one individual who raised a ques-
tion as to whether the United States, in
this instance, might have been better ad-
vised to bring pressure on another govern-
ment to release 60 who were held in
prison in order to save the lives of 2.
I disagree with that. All of us would
have liked to have saved the lives of these
169
