(242) Aug. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
lowing alternative plan, as authorized and
required by section 5305(c(1) of title
5. United States Code:
Such adjustments in the rates of pay
of each Federal statutory pay system as
may be determined. based on the
1973 Bureau of Labor Statistics survey,
shall become effective on the first day of
the first applicable pay period that
begins on or after December 1, 1973-
NOTE: The text of the message was released
at San Clemente, Calif
243 Labor Day Message.
August 31, 1973
AMERICA is a great nation because of
the strength and character of the Ameri-
can people. Without the full-hearted sup-
port of an intelligent, energetic labor
force, all of our technological and theoret-
ical breakthroughs would have been
wasted; with that support, they have
made America the most prosperous, pro-
gressive nation in the world.
On Labor Day we pay tribute to the
working men and women to whom Amer-
ica owes so much. On this day, we also
give thanks for the fact that in our free
society-more than anywhere else on
earth-the laborer can enjoy the results
of his labor and the freedom to choose
where and how he will apply his skills.
By working together, labor, management
and government in America
America have
achieved a standard of living and a cli-
mate of opportunity and individual rights
unequalled in the history of man.
But in a competitive world, no matter
how great our past achievements, we must
not fall victim to complacency. The soul
and sinew of American labor must con-
tinue to be a force for progress and pro-
ductivity. The continuing vitality of our
economy and, through it, of our entire
way of life, rests in large measure on the
willingness, understanding and coopera-
tion of the working men and women of
America. They have not failed us before
and they will not fail us now.
For all of us, then, Labor Day 1973
should be a time of rededication as well
as thanksgiving a time when we renew
our dedication to preserving an abundant
America, free and secure, for this and
future generations.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE The message was issued at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
244 Statement on the Death of John Ford.
August 31, 1973
IN the history of American films, no name
shines more brightly than that of John
Ford. A consummate master of his craft,
he was one of the pioneers in transform-
ing an infant industry into an art form
that developed in America and swept the
world. He was also a man who deeply
loved his country, and who helped at least
three generations of Americans to a fuller
understanding of their Nation and its
heritage. He represented the best in
American films, and the best in America.
730
