[357] Dec. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
basis. As far as that group is concerned,
I can say first that the entire Federal es-
tablishment, in terms of the Administra-
tion, the bureaucracy, so-called, the Cabi-
net officers, and all of the administra-
tive bodies, is cooperating fully and totally
with Director Simon.
I have given instructions quite harsh-
ly, I should say to all of those there,
not that they needed a harsh statement,
but I felt it is very important that there
not be any infighting, there not be any
competition, there not be any struggle for
power because of our setting up this new
office, and that particularly that every-
one, whatever his special constituency is,
whatever it may be, must put the con-
servation of energy first.
Director Simon has my total support
as he works with the various Cabinet offi-
cers and with the various department
heads in carrying out that policy.
With regard to the Congress, as you
know, this is somewhat D-day in terms of
our legislation. We are having a few
problems in working out the language of
the legislation and working around some
amendments that we think would be very
detrimental, not only in terms of energy
but particularly in terms of the econ-
omy generally.
I am going to be watching that situa-
tion during the day, and we may have a
report later in the day or possibly tomor-
row as to what the Congressional action
will be. But we generally are confident
that we will get from the Congress a satis-
factory piece of legislation that I can sign
before the Congress leaves for its recess
next week.
With regard to the Governors, we are
meeting later today with them, a group
of Governors, because cooperation by the
Governors of all the States is required.
And at their request, and also with our
enthusiastic acceptance, they are coming
here, a group of them to meet with us in
the Cabinet Room.
You will be allowed, of course, to cover
that, at least briefly at the outset of the
meeting.
I want to say finally, before Director
Simon goes into an analysis of what has
happened in the 3 weeks that we have
had our program in effect, I want to
emphasize particularly a segment of this
whole country that deserves perhaps the
most credit. Industry is cooperating, the
Governors are cooperating, the Federal
establishment is cooperating, and each
should cooperate because that is their
responsibility, because of their public posi-
tions and their public responsibilities in
this area.
As far as the American people are
concerned, it is solely a matter of their
cooperating in a voluntary way. Whether
an individual slows down to 50 miles an
hour, we don't have the ability to compel
him to do so. There may be in some States,
of course, speed limits that have been
changed, but generally speaking, it is a
voluntary action on the part of the in-
dividual. Lowering the thermostat is a
voluntary action on the part of the in-
dividual.
And to me what is the most exciting
and encouraging part of the energy report
we received yesterday and Mr. Simon
will capsule it for you today-is that that
cooperation of millions of Americans
has begun to pay off in saving energy.
For example, the demand for gasoline
last week was 15 percent less than we
had anticipated, and a great part of the
reduction in that demand is due to the
1010
