[175] June 15 Public Papers of the Presidents
arms which weights us down, and them,
and other nations as well.
We will also make progress toward com-
munication with the Soviets, and coopera-
tion, progress not at the expense of any of
our philosophies--they are Communist
and we believe in a free system and
progress that will be made in our talks
not at the expense of any other nation,
neither its independence, its freedom, or
in any other respect.
genius and all they represented, it oc-
curred to me that we are going to spend
millions, hundreds of millions of dollars,
and the best brains of America will be try-
ing to find a cure for that deadly disease,
as well as others. But how much better it
is for those who are trying to find the cures
for the deadly diseases that afflict mankind
to share their knowledge with each other,
to work together, because as far as we are
concerned, if the genius that finds that
cure is Chinese, fine; if he is Latin Amer-
ican, fine; if he is American, fine; be-
cause it will belong to the whole world,
and it is good that we are now having
that kind of association where we are
sharing our knowledge with them in
working against the common scourges of
mankind.
The other event that Senator Dirksen
would have recognized as being even more
important than the ending of a difficult
war and the ending of a draft is the sec-
ond visit we will be having at the summit
with Mr. Brezhnev in just 3 days. You
remember the visit a year ago. More sig-
nificant agreements were entered into at
that time than we have ever had with
the Soviet Union.
We anticipate that this next summit,
which will last for a week, will also pro-
duce significant agreements. There will be
some hard bargaining, and we are not
making any easy predictions. But based on
the attitude of Mr. Brezhnev, and my atti-
tude, which we know from much corre-
spondence and months of preparation, I
can say to you today that you can have
great hope that as a result of this meeting,
the two great super powers of the world
will make progress toward reducing the
danger of war, and also progress toward
limiting that deadly burden of nuclear
But let's look at what would have been
the situation had we not met last year or
this year. The United States would con-
tinue to develop its deadly power in the
nuclear field. The Soviet Union would.
We would continue to have those areas of
the world where, as a result of rubbing to-
gether, the spark might come out which
could bring a military confrontation.
We have reduced that danger now, and
so I say to you today, because of these
two great events-opening a dialog with
the People's Republic of China and con-
tinuing a policy of negotiation with the
leaders of the Soviet Union-Everett
Dirksen's hope, his dream, expressed in
that great Senate speech in 1962, that his
grandchildren could grow up in a world
of peace, has a much better chance to be
realized.
I simply conclude by saying this: Every
President, every Senator, every Congress-
man, I am sure, and every Governor is
asked what he wants most, what legacy
would he like to leave. And I would an-
swer that question as Senator Dirksen did
in his letter to his grandchildren: I want
this country to be free. I want this country
to be prosperous. I want every individual
in this country to have an equal opportu-
nity to go as high as his talents will take
him. But above all, I want the children
592
