[279] Oct. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing force behind ACTION's efforts across
the Nation.
Several other notable improvements are
also contained in this bill:
-It permits ACTION to launch special
volunteer programs aimed at a wider
range of human, social, and environ-
mental problems such as those ex-
perienced by veterans, drug abusers,
and youthful offenders.
-It doubles the length of service of
VISTA volunteers to 2 years, and
encourages them to deal with a wider
range of problems.
-It authorizes a continuation of the
new and innovative University Year
for ACTION program in which stu-
dents earn academic credit while
working full time in poverty-related
projects.
—And it enables the Federal Govern-
ment to design programs to meet the
needs of older Americans and those
who can use economic and financial
counseling.
Many of the best features of this bill
have resulted from compromise efforts be-
tween the Congress and the Administra-
tion. The harmonious, bipartisan spirit
which brought this bill to passage augurs
well for an organization that now seeks to
enlist all Americans in a constructive,
voluntary effort to help others who can-
not help themselves.
In signing this bill, I want to take special
note of a branch of the ACTION pro-
gram that is authorized by separate legis-
lation but certainly has been central to the
success of this new agency: the Peace
Corps. Five years ago, the Peace Corps
operated in a cold war environment and
the first flush of public enthusiasm for the
Corps had faded. Today, as we seek to
build a new era of peace, the Peace Corps'
role has also changed so that it now tries to
give more practical, hardheaded assist-
ance to our neighbors abroad. I am grati-
fied that with these changes has come a
revived interest in Peace Corps service
and a growing opportunity for its volun-
teers of all ages to play a vital role in
people-to-people diplomacy.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 1148) is Public
Law 93-113 (87 Stat. 394).
The President signed the bill in a ceremony
.in the Oval Office at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the bill by Michael P. Balzano, Jr., Director
of ACTION, and Melvin R. Laird, Counsellor
to the President for Domestic Affairs.
280 Informal Remarks to a Group of Senior Citizens
From Whittier, California.
I JUST wanted to say to all of you from
my hometown and my home commu-
nity that as members of the press here will
know, there are literally hundreds of
groups like this in Washington today. As
a matter of fact, thousands, who come--
not just senior citizens but visitors-on
bus trips and train trips and plane trips
and so forth, and of course, want to tour
October 2, 1973
the White House. Most of them get to
tour the White House if they stay long
enough. The lines are pretty long now.
And most of them, of course, would like
to come in and see the President.
Well, naturally, if I saw all the groups
that came into town, I wouldn't get any
work done. You see how clean my desk
is. But I can assure you that when I
836
