Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 11 [255]
255
Remarks at the First National Treatment Alternatives
to Street Crime Conference. September 11, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am very happy to welcome you all to
the East Room of the White House and
to welcome you to this conference. As you
can imagine, the responsibilities of who-
ever is President of this country often in-
clude welcoming various groups, and each
one, I am sure, believes that it is the most
important group ever to come to the
White House. Yours very well might be.
say this to others, too, though, I want
you to know.
But the point is that we consider that
this trip that you have taken was neces-
sary. We want you to return to your cities,
to your counties, to your States, feeling
that it was worthwhile and that it was not
just one of those junkets where people
gather together in Washington, talk about
a problem, and then go home and con-
tinue to do just what you have always been
doing in dealing with that problem.
Incidentally, what most of you have
been doing in many areas has been the
right thing. What we are trying to do here
is to bring together the experts in the field
to get their ideas to you and to get from
you, from the grassroots, your ideas, so
that throughout this country we can have
a program in dealing with drug abuse
which will be more effective than the one
we presently have.
Now, my views on this subject, I think,
are pretty well known to most of you here
in this group. Let me tell you how they
developed.
When I came into office in that first
year 1969, before the Nation was the prob-
lem of drug abuse as a very, very serious
problem. And in a press conference I re-
ferred to drug addiction as public enemy
number one in this Nation and that there-
fore it should have the very highest prior-
ity within the Federal Government, as well
as in State and local governments in deal-
ing with that problem.
me
And then various people came to see m
to talk about the problem and to tell me
how to attack it, and it was interesting
to find the different approaches. There
were some who said the real problem is the
source or the supply. If we can just cut off
the supply, particularly of hard drugs,
heroin, then that means that we will lick
the problem, because if we don't have the
supply rolling into this country, they will
not be able to get it, and that means that
you will not have the drug addiction.
So, we have been working on the supply
side and working very, very effectively.
You know the success of our program with
regard to Turkey-Ambassador [William
J.] Handley, incidentally, is here today
who is now working on this problem—but
not only in Turkey but in our relations
with France and a number of other coun-
tries, we have dramatically cut the source
of supply of hard drugs flowing into the
United States. We still have a lot to do,
and this will still have a very high priority
within the Administration.
A second group who discussed this
problem came in to see me back in the
year 1969 and said, "Now, the supply
problem is, of course, very, very impor-
tant, and we are glad you are working on
it. But the real way to get at this is through
law enforcement. What we need are stiffer
787
