Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 12 [118]
sonal triumph over cancer; and for the
hope and inspiration he has given to his
fellow Americans in their fight for life
and health."
MR. PARDEE. As a team the American
Cancer Society couldn't have a better
captain than you are and the leadership
you have shown to us in instigating legis-
lation to help all of us, and we appreciate
that.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:07 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House.
Jack Pardee, a linebacker for the Washing-
ton Redskins professional football team, was
honorary chairman of the District of Columbia
Cancer Crusade.
118 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Job
Security Assistance Legislation. April 12, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Difficult as it may be to live by the old
saw, a sunny day remains the best time to
fix a leaky roof. That is why today-with
civilian employment in the American
economy at an all-time record high of 83.9
million workers, with a solid business ex-
pansion continuing, and with the rate of
unemployment down to 5 percent and
likely to decline still further this year-I
am requesting prompt action by the Con-
gress on several reforms in our unem-
ployment insurance system.
The principles behind my proposals
were originally advanced as part of my
unemployment insurance package almost
four years ago. Most of that package be-
came law in August, 1970, when I signed
the far-reaching Employment Security
Amendments of 1970. At that time cover-
age was extended to some 6 million jobs
which had never before been eligible for
unemployment insurance; a much-needed
provision for extended benefits triggered
automatically at high unemployment
levels was added to the system; and basic
financial and administrative improve-
ments were effected. In all, these were the
most significant improvements ever made
in our system of assistance for persons be-
tween jobs since that system was estab-
lished in 1935.
Left unfulfilled in the 1970 legislation,
however, were several important objec-
tives on this Administration's agenda for
working Americans. The Job Security As-
sistance Act of 1973, which we are propos-
ing to the Congress today would meet
those objectives by making three major
changes in our unemployment insurance
system:
-First, it would establish minimum
benefit standards for the States, providing
an adequate level of benefits to all workers
who are covered by the system.
-It would also extend coverage for the
first time to most farm employees.
-Finally, it would set up strong safe-
guards to preserve the neutrality of the
unemployment insurance system during
industrial disputes.
GUARANTEEING AN ADEQUATE LEVEL OF
BENEFITS
A properly designed system of unem-
ployment insurance should serve a dual
purpose both helping to tide individual
workers financially over the periods when
they are without a job, and stabilizing the
281
