[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
intensive negotiations culminated in
the Agreement signed on January 27,
1973. This was quickly followed by a
settlement in neighboring Laos in
February. The steady courage and
patience of Americans who sup-
ported our policy through the years
were echoed in the moving salutes of
our returning men. But the coals of
war still glow in Vietnam and Laos,
and a ceasefire remains elusive al-
together in Cambodia. Much work
remains to consolidate peace in Indo-
china.
-In Western Europe the inevitable
strains of readjustment persisted as
we moved from American predomi-
nance to balanced partnerships. Gen-
erally these were healthy manifesta-
tions of the growing strength of coun-
tries who share common values and
objectives. With less fanfare, but no
less dedication, than in our negotia-
tions with adversaries, we consulted
closely with our friends. Such a proc-
ess may not be as susceptible to
dramatic advances, but we believe
that we have paved the way for sub-
stantial progress in Atlantic relations
in the coming months. Major politi-
cal, security and economic negotia-
tions are on the agenda. They will
test the wisdom and adaptability of
our Alliance.
-There was continued evolution to-
ward a more mature and equitable
partnership with Japan. Confidence
in our shared purposes, which ap-
peared shaken in 1971, has since been
reaffirmed. Nevertheless we have not
yet fully defined our new political
relationship, and serious economic
problems confront us. Our relations
with Tokyo will be an area of prime
attention during the coming year.
-In the past year we advanced toward
major reform of the international
economic system. With others we
have launched proposals to create a
more stable international monetary
system, and a more open world trad-
ing order through new international
trade negotiations. This process of
readjustment is not without crises,
however, and voices of narrow na-
tionalism are heard on both sides of
the ocean. We have a long and diffi-
cult way to go.
-The explosive Middle East continued
in the twilight zone between peace
and open conflict. The ceasefire ar-
ranged at our initiative lasted into its
third year, but no genuine progress
was made toward a permanent set-
tlement. Some foreign military forces
were withdrawn from the region,
but the mix of local animosities and
external power still makes the Mid-
dle East a most dangerous threat to
world peace. Efforts to find political
solutions are menanced by the up-
ward spiral of terrorism and reprisal.
-For the South Asian Subcontinent
it was a year of rebuilding and re-
adjustment after the conflict in 1971.
India, Pakistan, and the new nation
of Bangladesh made tentative moves
toward accommodation. But there is
still a long road to the stability and
reconciliation that are required if
the massive human needs of one-
fifth of mankind are to be met.
-In the Western Hemisphere the
United States followed its deliberate
policy of restraint, encouraging
others to furnish concepts as well as
356
