Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
eignty, equality, non-interference in inter-
nal affairs, and mutual advantage."
What we have agreed upon is not a vain
attempt to bridge ideological differences,
or a condominium of the two strongest
powers, or a division of spheres of influ-
ence. What we have agreed upon are prin-
ciples that acknowledge differences, but
express a code of conduct which, if ob-
served, can only contribute to world peace
and to an international system based on
mutual respect and self-restraint.
These principles are a guide for future
action, not a commentary on the past. In
themselves, they will have no meaning if
they are not reflected in action. The lead-
ers of the Soviet Union are serious men.
Their willingness to commit themselves
to certain principles for the future must
be taken as a solemn obligation. For our
part we are prepared to adhere to these
principles, and hope that the Soviet lead-
ers have the same serious intention.
THE ROAD AHEAD
In reporting last year to the Congress
on prospects for a summit meeting, I noted
that we could not expect to solve the ac-
cumulated problems of two decades in one
meeting, but that we did have the oppor-
tunity to open a new era in international
relations. If we were successful, I said, the
transformation of Soviet-American rela-
tions could become one of the most signifi-
cant achievements of our time.
I believe we have now taken that essen-
tial first step in freeing both of our coun-
tries from perpetual confrontation. From
confrontation we have moved to negotia-
tion and then to a broadening range of
fields. The promise of this beginning
obliges us to see it through.
The tasks ahead reflect the successes of
this past year as well as the disappoint-
ments:
-We are now in the second phase of
our effort to limit strategic arms. We
can build on what has been achieved.
We understand each other's concerns
better now than four years ago. We
have established a common vocab-
ulary and a technical framework in
which to examine issues. And we
have developed a measure of respect
and confidence in each other's seri-
ousness of purpose.
-But we face a severe challenge: each
side is called on to make commit-
ments, limiting its strategic offensive
weapons for this decade and beyond.
This will require political decisions
to respect each other's basic security
requirements and a willingness to
balance each other's legitimate in-
terests in an equitable and mutually
satisfactory settlement.
-In Europe, the progress in Soviet-
American relations has been a cata-
lyst for further change. Whereas East-
West relations in Europe were con-
fined to bilateral relations in the past
few years, we are now entering nego-
tiations that involve fuller participa-
tion by our allies. The issues of Euro-
pean security and cooperation or
reciprocal and balanced force reduc-
tions cannot be settled by the United
States and the Soviet Union alone.
We and the Soviet Union, however,
can each make a significant contribu-
tion to progress on these issues—and
that progress, in turn, will reinforce
the favorable momentum in our
bilateral relations by demonstrating
that détente is broadly based and
375
