[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Members of the Congress wish to play a
larger role in governing the Nation. They
want to increase the respect and authority
which the American people feel for that
great institution.
Personally, I welcome a Congressional
renaissance. Although I believe in a strong
Presidency and I will continue to oppose
all efforts to strip the Presidency of the
powers it must have to be effective I also
believe in a strong Congress.
In campaigning for the Presidency in
1968, I called for "national leadership
that recognizes the need in this country for
a balance of power. We must maintain,"
I said, "a balance of power between the
legislative and the judicial and the execu
tive branches of Government."
I still believe in that division of re-
sponsibility. There can be no monopoly
of wisdom on either end of Pennsylvania
Avenue-and there should be no monop-
oly of power.
The challenge is thus clear. The prob-
lems of the Nation are pressing, and our
elected leaders must rise to the occasion.
These next four months will be a time of
great testing. If the Congress is to play
its proper role in guiding the affairs of
the Nation, now is the time for it to take
swift and decisive action.
In sending this message to the Congress
today, I want to refocus attention on more
than 50 legislative measures which I pro-
posed earlier this year. These proposals,
along with my regular authorization re-
quests, are now of the highest priority if
we are to meet our responsibilities.
Frankly, the action taken by the Con-
gress on my proposals so far this year has
been far less than I had expected. Com-
mendable progress has been made on
some fronts, and I have signed into law
several bills which were the result of con-
structive compromise between the Con-
gress and the Administration. Among
them have been a new approach to farm
legislation, a Federal highway bill which
will also spur the development of mass
transit systems, an increase in social se-
curity benefits, airport development legis-
lation, amendments to the Rural Electrifi-
cation Act, the Economic Development
Administration and the Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration authorizations,
an Older Americans bill, an emergency
farm loan bill, a national cemeteries bill
and a medical care bill for veterans.
Yet the work that lies ahead in the
final quarter of the year is far heavier
and even more critical than that which
has been accomplished so far. Nearly all
of the significant proposals that I have
submitted to the Congress still await final
action. In addition, with more than two
months of the new fiscal year already
behind us, the Congress has passed only
three of thirteen regular appropriations
bills, all of which ideally should have been
passed before the fiscal year began. I
regret that it has also been necessary for
me to veto six bills this year. Four of those
vetoes have been sustained, and the final
disposition on two of them has not yet
been determined. I am hopeful that in
some of these areas where I have exercised
the veto, such as minimum wage legisla-
tion, the Congress will pass new legislation
this fall which will meet my objections.
The Congressional agenda for the next
four months is thus long and urgent.
I realize that it will not be possible for
the Congress to act this year on all of the
legislation which I have submitted. But
some of these measures respond directly
to the most immediate problems before
the country. I will give special attention
to them in this message, just as I trust the
762
