[370] Dec. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
370 Statement on Signing the District of Columbia
Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization
Act. December 24, 1973
AS a longtime supporter of self-govern-
ment for the District of Columbia, I am
pleased to sign into law a measure which
is of historic significance for the citizens of
our Nation's Capital. I first voted for
home rule as a Member of the House of
Representatives in 1948, and I have en-
dorsed the enactment of home rule legis-
lation during both my terms as President.
One of the major goals of this Admin-
istration is to place responsibility for local
functions under local control and to pro-
vide local governments with the author-
ity and resources they need to serve their
communities effectively. The measure I
sign today represents a significant step in
achieving this goal in the city of Wash-
ington. It will give the people of the Dis-
trict of Columbia the right to elect their
own city officials and to govern them-
selves in local affairs. As the Nation ap-
proaches the 200th anniversary of its
founding, it is particularly appropriate to
assure those persons who live in our Capi-
tal City rights and privileges which have
long been enjoyed by most of their
countrymen.
But the measure I sign today does more
than create machinery for the election of
local officials. It also broadens and
strengthens the structure of the city gov-
ernment to enable it to deal more effec-
tively with its responsibilities. For ex-
ample, this legislation transfers to the city
government control over certain quasi-
Federal agencies: the Redevelopment
Land Agency, the District of Columbia
Manpower Administration, the National
Capital Housing Authority, and the local
planning functions of the National Capi-
tal Planning Commission. These steps are
in accord with the recommendations of
the Commission on the Organization of
the Government of the District of Colum-
bia, known also as the Nelsen Commis-
sion. By making such transfers, the bill
will end the fragmentation of authority
over the city's physical planning, housing,
community development, and manpower
programs, steps which are essential to the
development of the city's neighborhoods,
to the health of its economy, to the effec-
tive coordination of its public services,
and to the overall success of self-govern-
ment.
Under this legislation, the increased
authority for local government will be
vested in an elected mayor and a 13-mem-
ber council, headed by an elected chair-
man. The measure also contains a
provision to assure minority political
party representation on the council.
In addition, the bill also provides broad
revenue raising authority for the city, en-
abling the people through their elected
representatives to determine how to pay
for the services they require. At the same
time, final Congressional review of the
District's appropriation process is retained
under this measure.
It is also important for the city to re-
ceive a predictable Federal payment.
Only then can it plan its finances in a
rational manner. The bill, therefore, pro-
vides for an increasing multiyear authori-
zation for Federal payments to the city,
giving greater predictability to the Fed-
eral payment than has previously existed.
1
1024
