[252] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
offenses, and a bill to modernize and re-
form the entire Federal Criminal Code.
Finally, we come to an area of trans-
cendent importance-that of national de-
fense. In recent years, it has been fashion-
able to suggest that whatever we want in
the way of extra programs at home could
be painlessly financed by just lopping $5
or $10 or $20 billion out of the defense
budget. This approach is worse than fool-
hardy, it is suicidal, because we could
have the finest array of domestic programs
in the world and they would mean noth-
ing if, because of our weakness, we lost
our freedom or we were plunged into the
abyss of nuclear war.
The world's hope for peace depends on
America's strength. It depends absolutely
on our never falling into the position of
being the second strongest nation in the
world.
For years now, we have been engaged
in a long, painstaking process of negotiat-
ing mutual limits on strategic nuclear
arms. Historic agreements have already
been reached; others are in prospect.
Talks are also going forward this year
aimed at a mutual and balanced reduc-
tion of forces in Europe. But the point
of all these negotiations is that if peace is
to be preserved, the limitations and the
reductions of arms must be mutual. What
one side is willing to give up for free, the
other side will not bargain for.
If America's peace and America's free-
dom are worth preserving, they are worth
the cost of whatever level of military
strength it takes to preserve them, and
we must not yield to the folly of breaching
that level and so undermining our hopes
and the world's hopes for peace now and
in the future.
The questions at issue in achieving these
various goals are not ones of partisan-
ship of Republicans versus Democrats.
And neither, for the most part, are they
ones of the President versus the Congress.
In some cases, there are real philosoph-
ical differences over how best to meet the
needs that we face. The American tradi-
tion has always been that we argue these
differences out-we compromise some, we
settle others by a test of strength. But it
is important that we act, that we decide,
that we get on with the business of gov
ernment-that we not let whatever may
be our disagreements over the means of
achieving these goals bar us from the
achievement.
It is important, on all sides, that we
approach this legislative season with a
willingness to make those reasonable ad-
justments that are necessary to reach a
common objective.
Within that spirit, there are three basic
principles which I feel are essential.
We must maintain a national defense
sufficient to safeguard us from attack and
to provide an incentive for mutual reduc-
tions in the burden of armaments for all
the world.
We must hold down the total of our
expenditures, so that new programs will
not be bought at the cost of losing the
war against higher prices and higher
taxes.
We must recognize that the American
system requires both a strong Congress
and a strong Executive, and we, therefore,
must not place limits on Presidential
powers that would jeopardize the capacity
of the President, in this and in future
Administrations, to carry out his respon-
sibilities to the American people.
There is still enough time to make
1973 a year in which we not only ended
760
