[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
upon the Congress to delegate significant
new negotiating authorities to the execu-
tive branch. For several decades now, both
the Congress and the President have rec-
ognized that trade policy is one field in
which such delegations are indispensable.
This concept is clearly established; the
questions which remain concern the de-
gree of delegation which is appropriate
and the conditions under which it should
be carried out.
The legislation I submit today spells out
only that degree of delegation which I
believe is necessary and proper to ad-
vance the national interest. And just as
we have consulted closely with the Con-
gress in shaping this legislation, so the
executive branch will consult closely with
the Congress in exercising any negotiating
authorities it receives. I invite the Con-
gress to set up whatever mechanism it
deems best for closer consultation and co-
operation to ensure that its views are
properly represented as trade negotiations
go forward.
It is important that America speak
authoritatively and with a single voice at
the international bargaining table. But it
is also important that many voices con-
tribute as the American position is being
shaped.
The proposed Trade Reform Act of
1973 would provide for the following
new authorities:
First, I request authority to eliminate,
reduce, or increase customs duties in the
context of negotiated agreements.
Although this authority is requested for
a period of five years, it is my intention
and my expectation that agreements can
be concluded in a much shorter time. Last
October, the member governments of the
European Community expressed their
hope that the coming round of trade nego-
tiations will be concluded by 1975. I en-
dorse this timetable and our negotiators
will cooperate fully in striving to meet it.
Secondly, I request a Congressional
declaration favoring negotiations and
agreements on non-tariff barriers. I am
also asking that a new, optional procedure
be created for obtaining the approval of
the Congress for such agreements when
that is appropriate. Currently both
Houses of the Congress must take positive
action before any such agreement re-
quiring changes in domestic law becomes
effective-a process which makes it diffi-
cult to achieve agreements since our trad-
ing partners know it is subject to much
uncertainty and delay. Under the new ar-
rangement, the President would give no-
tice to the Congress of his intention to use
the procedure at least 90 days in advance
of concluding an agreement in order to
provide time for appropriate House and
Senate Committees to consider the issues
involved and to make their views known.
After an agreement was negotiated, the
President would submit that agreement
and proposed implementing orders to the
Congress. If neither House rejected them
by a majority vote of all members within
a period of 90 days, the agreement and
implementing orders would then enter
into effect.
Thirdly, I request advance authority to
carry out mutually beneficial agreements
concerning specific customs matters pri-
marily involving valuation and the mark-
ing of goods by country of origin.
The authorities I outline in my pro-
posed legislation would give our nego-
tiators the leverage and the flexibility
they need to reduce or eliminate foreign
barriers to American products. These
262
