[139] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ments, and we laid the foundation for
major increases in trade. Most impor-
tantly, we reached an unprecedented
agreement limiting the nuclear arsenals
that have haunted the world for a
generation.
In the early months of 1973, intensive
negotiations and a decisive military policy
brought us at last to a just settlement of
the long and costly war in Vietnam. We
achieved our fundamental objectives-a
cease-fire, the return of our prisoners, a
commitment to account for those missing
in action, the honorable withdrawal of our
forces, and the right of the people of
South Vietnam to determine their own
political future.
But the peace in Vietnam and the paral-
lel peace in Laos remain fragile because
of North Vietnam's continued violations
of the peace agreement. A cease-fire still
has not been reached in Cambodia. We
earnestly hope these problems can be
solved at the conference table. We will
not turn our back on our friends and
allies while Hanoi makes a mockery of
its promise to help keep the peace.
During recent months, with less fan-
fare than in negotiations with our adver-
saries but with no less dedication, we have
also been working closely with our Atlan-
tic and Pacific partners. In addition, we
have moved toward major reform of the
international economic system, although
the process of readjustment is still marked
by crises.
We have continued to share more re-
sponsibilities with our friends under the
Nixon Doctrine. In sum, recalling the
challenges we faced and the goals we set
at the outset of this Administration, all
Americans can take satisfaction in the
record of the recent past.
But our progress in the early 1970's has
been more marked in reducing tensions
than in restructuring partnerships. That
is why we must make 1973 not only the
"Year of Europe,” as some have called it,
but also the year of renewal for all of
America's alliances and friendships.
In this spirit, we shall cooperate with
our European friends to forge even
stronger partnerships, cemented by a new
articulation of the goals we share.
There will be the closest collaboration
on such major issues as the mutual and
balanced reduction of forces in Europe,
the European Security Conference, and
the current round of strategic arms limita-
tion talks. Before the end of the year, I
will visit our Atlantic allies.
We shall also continue to attach the
highest priority to our relations with our
major Pacific ally, Japan. Prime Minister
Tanaka will visit the United States this
summer for talks on this subject.
We shall work with all concerned na-
tions to create a stable monetary system
and to promote freer trade. To make this
possible. I again urge the Congress to
pass promptly the crucial trade legislation
I submitted last month.
We are also seeking in 1973 to further
the positive momentum in our relations
with the Soviet Union. I look forward to
welcoming the Soviet leadership to this
country later in the year.
Dr. Kissinger leaves tonight for Mos-
cow to prepare for that visit. New U.S.-
Soviet talks are already underway, aiming
for further agreements on controlling nu-
clear weapons.
We shall also continue this year to build
our promising new relationship with the
People's Republic of China.
We shall pay particular attention to our
neighbors in this hemisphere. Secretary
Rogers is soon to embark on a trip to Latin
346
