[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
they would contribute substantial
amounts, anywhere from $100,000 to $2
million to $10 million, to our campaign.
Now, that is just not true. I will tell
you how it happened-I was there. Cliff
Hardin, in the spring of that year, came
in and said, “The milk support prices are
high enough." I said, "All right, Cliff,
that is your recommendation, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture?" He said, "Yes."
Within 3 weeks after he had made that
announcement, Congress put a gun to
our head.
Let me tell you what it was. Republi-
cans? Unh-unh. One hundred and two
Members of Congress signed a petition de-
manding not 85 percent of parity, but a
90 percent support price, and 28 Members
of the Senate, most of them Democrats,
including Senator McGovern, signed a pe-
tition demanding a petition, or signed a
bill, which would have made the milk
support price between 85 and 90 percent.
So, I talked to my legislative leaders, and
I said, "Look here, what I am concerned
about-what I am concerned about-is
what people pay for that milk, and I don't
want to have that price jigged up here if
we can keep it and get the supply with the
present support price." You know what I
was told. They said, "With the kind of
heat that we are getting from the Con-
gress, there is no way that you are not
going to get on your desk a bill-and they
will be able to override your veto-that
will raise the support price probably to
90 percent." So, we said 85 percent.
And that is why it was done and that
is the truth.
Well, thank you very much, gentlemen.
I guess that is the end.
NOTE: The session began at 7 p.m. in the Con-
temporary Hotel at Walt Disney World. It was
broadcast live on nationwide radio and tele-
vision.
335 Remarks on Arrival at Robins Air Force Base, Georgia.
November 18, 1973
THANK YOU very much. Pat and I wish
we could shake hands with every person
who has been so very kind to come out
and welcome us on this occasion, but it
happens that downtown there is going to
be a very special ceremony, as you know,
for the 90th birthday of the man we affec-
tionately call "Uncle Carl" Vinson. It also
is the 100th anniversary, as I understand
it, of the Mercer Law School, one of the
fine law schools in the country, and I un-
derstand this is the 150th anniversary of
Macon, so I am here on a very good day.
The other thing I should say is this:
that this happens to be the first time I
have ever been to Macon, so I am glad,
after this welcome-after this welcome I
am going to make sure it is not the last
time I have come to Macon. When I saw
that we were going to arrive here at 1:30,
I said, "Why, there won't be much of a
crowd. They will all be watching the Fal-
cons." But they play tomorrow night,
right? And who is going to win, Minne-
sota? It will be a fine game. It will be a
lot better than the movie, you can be
sure.
Let me say to you, too, that on this oc-
casion, I know this country well through
a coincidence. Many years ago, when I
came from the west coast for the first time
east, I went to Duke University, and my
964
