[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
points shape the attitudes of each ally,
especially if its forces or territory may be
involved. Issues of this magnitude could
become divisive if there were no common
concept. The Alliance must approach
force reductions from the standpoint of
their effect on military security in a pe-
riod that may be marked by a further
amelioration of tensions. Some of the key
questions are:
-How do we reconcile reductions in
roughly balanced conventional forces
with the fact that the strategic bal-
ance is no longer clearly favorable
to the Alliance?
-What are the capabilities to sustain
a conventional defense of NATO ter-
ritory with reduced forces?
-Could a substantial reduction in con-
ventional defense lead to a greater
or earlier reliance on nuclear
weapons?
-Can reduced forces be maintained
and improved in the present politi-
cal environment?
-What would be the net effect of a
new balance in Central Europe on
the flanks of NATO?
-How would reductions affect the rel-
ative burdens of American and Eu-
ropean forces?
To deal with these kinds of issues effec-
tively, the Alliance must first set its secu-
rity goals and relate them to technical
MBFR analysis. Then, however the ne-
gotiations may unfold, the Alliance posi-
tion throughout will be determined by a
common concept of security rather than
by negotiating tactics or abstract political
formulas. We can then rationally address
the questions of which forces and equip-
ment should be reduced and by what
amounts. We can translate our technical
analysis into detailed proposals that both
protect our interests and offer the other
side a proposal for reductions that will
enhance military stability in the heart of
Europe.
Our security and that of the Alliance is
inextricably linked. We will pursue these
negotiations in full agreement with our
allies. We will negotiate with the same
dedication we displayed in SALT. We will
also observe a fundamental principle of
those talks; we will not enter into agree-
ments that undermine international
equilibrium or create threats to other
countries.
OTHER ARMS CONTROL ISSUES
During the past year we have pursued
arms control on several multilateral
fronts.
Biological Arms Control. On April 10,
1972, the United States, the Soviet Union,
and over 70 other nations signed an inter-
national treaty banning the development,
production, and stockpiling of biological
and toxic weapons and requiring destruc-
tion of existing stocks. The treaty has now
been signed by more than 100 nations. I
submitted it to the Senate on August 10,
1972, for advice and consent. Meanwhile,
we are taking steps to implement some
provisions.
The facilities that once produced these
weapons are now doing research for
peaceful purposes. The former biological
warfare facility at Pine Bluff Arsenal in
Arkansas has become a center for research
on the adverse effects of chemical sub-
stances in man's environment. The former
military biological research facility at Fort
Detrick, Maryland, now houses a na-
tional center for cancer research. Scien-
500
