Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 9 [286]
dent. We have been in close contact, at
the President's instruction, with all the
permanent members of the Security
Council, with the parties to the conflict.
And we have been doing this since Satur-
day afternoon in order to bring an end to
the fighting, and we will now see what
develops at the Security Council session
this afternoon. Our intention is to move
forward with the broadest possible sup-
port that can be effected.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House before a
group of White House reporters and photog-
raphers.
Later in the morning, Press Secretary Ronald
L. Ziegler announced that the President had,
on October 7, 1973, exchanged personal mes-
sages with General Secretary L. I. Brezhnev
of the Soviet Union on the situation in the
Middle East, where fighting had broken out
between Israel and Egypt and Syria on Oc-
tober 6.
286 Remarks of Welcome to President Félix Houphouet-
Boigny of the Republic of Ivory Coast.
October 9, 1973
Mr. President, and all of our friends from
the Ivory Coast, and all of our friends here
in Washington, D.C., from the United
States:
Mr. President, I am honored to be the
fourth American President to welcome
you to Washington, D.C., and as you come
on this occasion, I am also proud of the
fact that both Mrs. Nixon and I have had
the opportunity to visit and to know
your
country, and to know what an exciting
country it is from the standpoint of its
prospects for the future.
For those in America who do not know
Ivory Coast, we can report that you have
the highest per capita income in black
Africa, you have the highest rate of sus-
tainable growth in that part of the world,
and you have established a record for
leadership that is known throughout the
world. We know that this could not have
happened without that leadership, be-
cause as we look to the secret of progress
for Ivory Coast, we find it, first, in its
wealth, the wealth in its resources. We
find it, second, in its wealth in its people, a
hard-working, devoted people who are
determined to move forward in the areas
of progress. And we find it, third, in
leadership, leadership which you have
provided since Ivory Coast became a na-
tion, and leadership which has meant sta-
bility, which has meant private and free
enterprise coming into your country, not
to exploit, but to develop for the good of
all of the people, and leadership which,
above all, has meant peace.
And, Mr. President, on this occasion
when we meet, the last point is most im-
portant. We realize that fighting has again
broken out in the northern part of your
continent and in the Mideast, and I think
all of our fellow Americans will be inter-
ested to note that our distinguished and
honored guest today, just this year, re-
ceived the peace award, the first peace
award ever given by the organization
which was set up for world peace through
849
