[292] Oct. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
for American businessmen. They are go-
ing to represent our interests and repre-
sent them aggressively, but in representing
them aggressively, they also are going to
recognize that it can't be a one-way street,
either way. We can't sell without buying.
And that is why, when we see some of
the shortsighted talk to the effect that we
should have legislation which will close
American markets or raise barriers to
goods abroad in order to save jobs here,
that that is terribly shortsighted, because
when we see it, we find that if we close our
markets in order to save jobs here, we are
going to lose jobs for those products that
otherwise would be sold abroad.
And so the question is, how can we have
a policy in which we buy and sell and
have the right kind of a position in which
we have more jobs at home, a better
standard of living at home, and also a
better opportunity for others abroad to
participate in that development of pros-
perity.
So, I would conclude my remarks, ladies
and gentlemen, simply with this general
proposition. We live in a far more com-
petitive world. We find that the new Eu-
rope is going to give us very tough com-
petition. Japan already is giving us very
hard competition. Further down the road,
even the totalitarian powers, the Soviet
Union, the People's Republic of China,
not because they are Communist, but be-
cause they are Chinese and because they
are Russians and have drive-they are go-
ing to give us some competition in the
world.
So, when we finally come down to the
bottom line, it is this: Government has
got to see to it that American goods get
a fair shake all over the world, and we
will meet that responsibility. And we have
to do everything that we can to expand
our exports, and that is something that
you can do, because we are a free enter-
prise country. Government cannot do it,
and you have to do it.
But we also must recognize that if
American goods are to be sold abroad,
American business and American labor
must be competitive, and the name of that
game, as everybody in this room knows, is
productivity.
That is why in this period of time, to
think in terms simply of building a great
wall around this Nation so that noncom-
petitive industries can survive, that is good
short-term politics; it is disastrous long-
term statesmanship in terms of business,
in terms of jobs, and in terms of the peace
of America in the world.
And so, to all of you I say, thank you
for coming to this conference. I know
that many of you come to Washington
many times for conferences and wonder if
that trip was worthwhile. I can only say
I believe yours is, because as we enter this
new era of peace for America with all na-
tions in the world, we must build on it,
we must build a new structure. There
must be new diplomacy, there must be the
necessary military strength so that we can
be the peacemakers in the world.
But we also need those communica-
tions, channels of communications which
the businessmen, the businesswomen of
America open through the areas of trade,
and we also need that kind of communi-
cation between nations in the trading area
which will raise the standard of living
throughout the world so that all peoples
and all nations will have a stake in the
peace of the world.
That is a great goal. You are all work-
ing for it, and speaking for all of the Amer-
ican people, we thank American business
and American labor for the role you have
866
