[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
mate responsibility is to the people and
our deliberations must always be guided
by their best interests.
Inevitably, we will have different
opinions about what those interests de-
mand. But if we proceed in a spirit of
constructive partnership, our varying per-
spectives can be a source of greater cre-
ativity rather than a cause of deadlock.
We already know that the year 1973
will be recalled in history books as the
year in which we ended the longest war
in American history. Let us conduct our-
selves in the next four months so that
1973 will also be remembered as the time
in which we began to turn the blessings
of peace into a better life for all.
The White House,
September 10, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, Speaker Carl Albert,
Majority Leader Thomas P O'Neill, Jr, and
Minority Leader Gerald R Ford of the House
of Representatives breakfasted with the Presi-
dent at the White House and discussed the
legislative agenda before the Congress and the
Executive.
254 Message to the Annual Assembly of the Atlantic
Treaty Association. September 10, 1973
IN SENDING my greetings and best
wishes for a successful meeting to the At-
lantic Treaty Association on the occasion
of its 19th Annual Assembly, I am con-
scious of the unstinting service its members
have long given to the cohesion and
strength of the Atlantic Alliance. A close
and vigorous Atlantic relationship remains
vital to the security and prosperity of all
of our countries during this period of pro-
found changes in the Atlantic Community
and the world at large--changes that of-
fer new opportunities.
Collective defense remains the cor-
nerstone of the Atlantic Alliance. The
Government of the United States is
pledged to maintain our commitments to
the Alliance and to make a substantial
contribution on a mutual defense. We
confidently expect that each of our allies
will assume its share of the common
defense burden, joining in equitable ar-
rangements which strengthen the solidar-
ity of the Alliance. And we expect that
the Alliance will continue to evaluate our
mutual defense effort in light of the stra-
tegic and political conditions prevailing
in this decade.
Not only in defense, but in all spheres
we have the opportunity as equal partners
to chart our future course, to define our
common purposes and to strengthen the
principles of mutual understanding on
which our future relation will depend. I
believe that in this we can infuse our old
ties with a new dynamism. The United
States will do its part, and we look to our
partners to join in fulfilling the promise
of the years that lie ahead.
786
