[116] Apr. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
deal with the worldwide problem of un-
authorized duplication of phonograms
(i.e., records and tapes). The problem is
urgent and growing. The value of pirated
records and tapes in the United States
alone has been estimated at one hundred
million dollars. Protection against this
illicit practice is needed to encourage the
creative contributions of those who pro-
duce phonograms, the performing artists
and the authors whose talents give phono-
grams their value.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention submitted herewith and give its
advice and consent to its ratification.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 11, 1973
NOTE: The text of the convention and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
cutive G (93d Cong., 1st sess. ) .
117 Remarks on Presenting the American Cancer Society's
Courage Award to Jack Pardee. April 11, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
This is an annual responsibility that I
have and a very great honor, and that is
to present the American Cancer Society
Award to a very outstanding individual.
It seems that each year we have topped
the one from last year, and all of you are
aware of my great admiration for people
who are successful in any area and par-
ticularly those who are successful in the
area of sports.
Those of us here in Washington have
admired Jack Pardee for his being a great
athlete, for his being beyond that a great
leader of men, an inspirational leader.
When we think of Washington next year,
I just wonder what that defense will be
without Jack Pardee calling the signals,
not just his tackles but what he inspired
others to do. He will be there certainly in
an inspirational coaching way, I hope,
or in some capacity. I have been trying to
get him to change his mind and play.
No one can handle them better than you
can.
But I think all of us, most Americans,
would be surprised, unless they followed
sports closely, to know that Jack Pardee
once suffered from a very, very serious
form of cancer, skin cancer. He went
through an 11-hour operation. And there
was a serious doubt as to whether he first
might get well, but of course, it was an
almost inescapable conclusion that he
would never play football again.
He got well, and he demonstrated, not
only to the city of Washington but to
the National Football Conference and all
the world, that he was a great athlete and
a great man during this last season.
And Jack, your example is certainly an
inspiration to all of us, everybody who
works in this field. It will be to those who
have to go through the tragic problems of
cancer, for their families, as your family
had to go through, and I don't think the
American Cancer Society could have
made a better choice.
I will read the citation:
"The American Cancer Society salutes
a courageous man and a remarkable ath-
lete, Jack Pardee, for his heroism in a per-
280
