Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 1 [61]
nomic, and political system which has
been responsible for making this country
the best place on earth to live-and which
has tremendous potential to rectify what-
ever shortcomings may still persist.
But we Americans to our great
credit-are a restless and impatient peo-
ple, a nation of idealists. We dream not
simply of alleviating poverty, hunger, dis-
crimination, ignorance, disease, and fear,
but of eradicating them altogether—and
we would like to do it all today.
During the middle and late 1960's,
under the pressure of this impatient ideal-
ism, Federal intervention to help meet
human needs increased sharply. Provision
of services from Federal programs directly
to individuals began to be regarded as
the rule in human resources policy, rather
than the rare exception it had been in the
past.
The Government in those years under-
took sweeping, sometimes almost utopian,
commitments in one area of social concern
after another. The State and local gov-
ernments and the private sector were el-
bowed aside with little regard for the
dislocations that might result. Literally
hundreds of new programs were estab-
lished on the assumption that even the
most complex problems could be quickly
solved by throwing enough Federal dol-
lars at them.
Well-intentioned as this effort may have
been, the results in case after case
amounted to dismal failure. It was a clas-
sic case of elevating means to the status
of ends in themselves. Hard evidence of
actual betterment in people's lives was
seldom demanded. Ever-larger amounts of
funds, new agencies, and increased staff
were treated as proof enough of success,
simply because the motive was compas-
sionate.
The American people deserve better
than this. They deserve compassion that
works-not simply compassion that means
well. They deserve programs that say yes
to human needs by saying no to paternal-
ism, social exploitation and waste.
Protecting and enhancing the greatness
of our society is a great goal. It is doubly
important, therefore, that we not permit
the worthiness of our objective to render
us uncritical or careless in the means we
select for attaining that objective.
It will increase our greatness as a so-
ciety, for example, to establish the prin-
ciple that no American family should be
denied good health care because of in-
ability to pay. But it will diminish our
greatness if we deprive families of the
freedom to make their own health care
arrangements without bureaucratic
meddling.
It will increase our greatness to en-
sure that no boy or girl is denied a quality
education. But it will diminish our great-
ness if we force hundreds of thousands of
children to ride buses miles away from
their neighborhood schools in order to
achieve an arbitrary racial balance.
It will increase our greatness to estab-
lish an income security system under
which no American family will have to
suffer for lack of income or break up be-
cause welfare regulations encourage it.
But it would erode the very foundations
of our stability and our prosperity if we
ever made it more comfortable or more
profitable to live on a welfare check than
on a paycheck.
PRINCIPLES FOR THE 1970'S
Consistently since 1969, this Adminis-
tration has worked to establish a new hu-
man resources policy, based on a healthy
135
