Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
-The 1970 Convention for the Sup-
pression of Unlawful Seizure of Air-
craft, which obligates states either to
prosecute or extradite suspected air
hijackers found in their territory;
and
-A companion convention, the 1971
Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of
Civil Aviation, which deals with
sabotage and other terrorist attacks
against civil aircraft.
We are working for the adoption of an-
other international convention which
would establish procedures for possible
sanctions, including suspension of air serv-
ice, against countries which fail to punish
or extradite hijackers or saboteurs of civil
aircraft.
We took an important bilateral action
on February 15, 1973, when we entered
into an agreement with Cuba whereby
each agreed to extradite, if it did not
punish, individuals involved in hijacking.
The United States has also pressed for
concrete results in the United Nations to
deal with international terrorism gener-
ally. We welcomed Secretary General
Waldheim's proposal that the UN Gen-
eral Assembly consider this subject, sub-
mitted a draft convention, and called for
discussion. Some UN members, while
sympathetic to the need for quick actions,
emphasized the difficulty of defining ter-
rorism and devising international arrange-
ments to deal effectively with it. Some
sought to sidetrack the debate. The Gen-
eral Assembly set up an interim working
group to study the question in depth.
The Assembly also considered draft
articles on the protection of diplomats and
agreed to solicit member states' com-
ments with a view to completing action
on a convention at its 1973 session. We will
do our utmost to secure General Assembly
acceptance of this convention this year.
In INTERPOL, the mechanism for in-
ternational cooperation in criminal police
work, we have sought the maximum ex-
change of intelligence among participat-
ing countries with respect to cases of hi-
jacking and acts of terrorism.
We have addressed these problems at
home as well. The Cabinet Committee
to Combat Terrorism, which I established
last September, reviewed existing proce-
dures and adopted new measures where
necessary to ensure that our Government
could take swift and effective action in
diplomatic, intelligence, and law enforce-
ment channels. We have already improved
our methods for screening aliens entering
or transiting the United States and have
taken additional precautions for the pro-
tection of foreign diplomatic missions and
personnel in the United States.
The international community should
examine the political causes of terrorism
and seek to remedy any legitimate injus-
tices. But political passion, however
deeply held, cannot be permitted to wreak
criminal violence on innocent persons. As
I have made clear in the past, the United
States Government will not submit to
terrorist blackmail. We will continue to
work vigorously to deter and prevent
terrorist acts and to punish those who
perpetrate them.
CONTROL OF DRUG ABUSE
As part of our drive to meet the deadly
menace of narcotics abuse, this Adminis-
tration remains committed to an unrelent-
ing global struggle against illicit drug
traffic.
The Cabinet Committee on Interna-
tional Narcotics Control, which spear-
31-870 O 75 - 36
511
