Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 26 [312]
thought was an acceptable compromise,
one in which Judge Stennis, now Senator
Stennis, would hear the tapes and would
provide a complete and full disclosure,
not only to Judge Sirica but also to the
Senate committee.
Attorney General Richardson approved
of this proposition. Senator Baker, Sena-
tor Ervin approved of the proposition. Mr.
Cox was the only one that rejected it.
Under the circumstances, when he re-
jected it and indicated that despite the
approval of the Attorney General, of
course, of the President, and of the two
major Senators on the Ervin committee,
when he rejected the proposal, I had no
choice but to dismiss him.
Under those circumstances, Mr. Rich-
ardson, Mr. Ruckelshaus felt that because
of the nature of their confirmation that
their commitment to Mr. Cox had to take
precedence over any commitment they
might have to carry out an order from the
President.
Under those circumstances, I accepted
with regret the resignations of two fine
public servants.
Now we come to a new Special Prose-
cutor. We will cooperate with him, and
I do not anticipate that we will come to
the time when he would consider it neces-
sary to take the President to court. I think
our cooperation will be adequate.
Q. This is perhaps another way of ask-
ing Frank's question, but if the Special
Prosecutor considers that information
contained in Presidential documents is
needed to prosecute the Watergate case,
will you give him the documents, beyond
the nine tapes which you have already
given him?
THE PRESIDENT. I have answered that
question before. We will not provide Pres-
idential documents to a Special Prosecu-
tor. We will provide, as we have in great
numbers, all kinds of documents from the
White House, but if it is a document
involving a conversation with the Presi-
dent, I would have to stand on the
principle of confidentiality. However, in-
formation that is needed from such
documents would be provided. That is
what we have been trying to do.
Q. Mr. President, you know in the Con-
gress there is a great deal of suspicion over
any arrangement which will permit the
executive branch to investigate itself or
which will establish a Special Prosecutor
which you may fire again. And 53 Sena-
tors, a majority, have now cosponsored a
resolution which would permit Judge
Sirica to establish and name an independ-
ent prosecutor, separate and apart from
the White House and the executive
branch. Do you believe this arrangement
would be constitutional, and would you
go along with it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would suggest
that the action that we are going to take,
appointing a Special Prosecutor, would be
satisfactory to the Congress and that they
would not proceed with that particular
matter.
THOUGHTS ON QUESTIONS OF IMPEACH-
MENT OR RESIGNATION
[5] Mr. Rather [Dan Rather, CBS
News].
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you
could share with us your thoughts, tell us
what goes through your mind when you
hear people, people who love this country
and people who believe in you, say reluc-
tantly that perhaps you should resign or
be impeached.
899
