[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
lead during the period of the agreement,
even if the Soviets develop and deploy
MIRV's of their own.
Moreover, to assess the overall balance
it is also necessary to consider those forces
not in the agreement; our bomber force,
for instance, is substantially larger and
more effective than the Soviet bomber
force.
Thus, when the total picture is viewed,
our strategic forces are seen to be com-
pletely sufficient.
Will the agreements jeopardize our se-
curity in the future? The Soviet Union
has proved that it can best compete in
sheer numbers. This is the area limited by
the agreements. The agreements thus con-
fine competition with the Soviets to the
area of technology where, heretofore, we
have had a significant advantage.
Clearly, the agreements enhance the
security of both sides. No agreement that
failed to do so could have been signed or
would have stood any chance of lasting.
As I told the Congressional leaders last
June, I am convinced that these agree-
ments fully protect our national security
and our vital interests. The Congress ac-
cepted this judgment and gave the agree-
ments overwhelming approval.
I am determined that our security and
vital interests shall remain fully protected.
We are therefore pursuing two parallel
courses:
-We have entered the current phase of
the strategic arms limitations talks
with the same energy and conviction
that produced the initial agreements.
Until these negotiations succeed we
must take care not to anticipate their
outcome through unilateral decisions.
-We shall continue our research and
developmental programs and estab-
lish the production capacity to sus-
tain a sufficient strategic posture
should new agreements prove unat-
tainable. This effort also dissuades
the other side from breaking the
agreements.
These agreements are not isolated
events. They are embedded in the fabric of
an emerging new relationship, and can be
of great political and historical signifi-
cance. For the first time, two great powers,
deeply divided by their values, philoso-
phies, and social systems, have agreed to
restrain the very armaments on which
their national survival depends. A de-
cision of this magnitude could only have
been taken by two countries which had
chosen to place their relations on a new
foundation of restraint, cooperation, and
steadily growing confidence.
The possibility always exists that the
agreements will not be respected. We con-
cluded them not on the basis of trust, but
rather on the enlightened self-interest of
both sides. They contain extensive and
carefully negotiated provisions for verifi-
cation. Beyond the legal obligations, both
sides have a stake in all of the agreements
that have been signed and the broad proc-
ess of improvement in relations that has
begun.
We are confident that the Soviet leaders
will not lightly abandon the course that
led to the summit meeting and the initial
agreements. For our own part, we will
not change direction without major prov-
ocation, because we believe our present
course is in the interest of this country
and of mankind. We will remain fully pro-
tected as long as we maintain our re-
search and development effort and the
strategic programs for modernization and
replacement that I have recommended to
the Congress.
Future Prospects. In November 1972
496
