Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 9 [287]
meetings loyal, candid, and frank-that we
shall have with you and with the figures that
we shall meet here.
I come to you, Mr. President, simply and as
a friend to thank you with all my heart in my
own name and in that of my wife and express
to you the feelings of admiration and confi-
dence placed in you by the people of the Ivory
Coast and which through you are addressed to
the entire American nation. Long live the
United States of America; long live the friend-
ship between our two peoples.
287 Statement Following a Meeting With Energy and
Environmental Advisers on Energy Conservation.
October 9, 1973
A MEETING I held this afternoon with
many of my top energy and environmen-
tal advisers has underscored once again
the need for a full-scale effort to con-
serve energy.
It is now widely recognized that we may
face fuel shortages for the next few years.
The shortage of heating oil this winter
could be as high as 400,000 barrels per
day. If every household will lower its
thermostat by just 4 degrees this winter,
the total savings in heating oil alone will
exceed that 400,000 barrel-per-day figure.
This is what conservation by all our citi-
zens can accomplish.
A more prudent use of energy must be
made at all levels-by government, by in-
dustry, and by private citizens. This June,
I directed that action be taken through-
out the Federal Government to reduce
anticipated energy consumption by a total
of 7 percent, and I urged industry, State
and local government, and the general
public to participate in efforts to reduce
expected energy demands across the Na-
tion by 5 percent over a 12-month period.
Our meeting today was to assess the
progress made so far and to discuss plans
for the winter phase of our national energy
conservation campaign. The most en-
couraging report came from Secretary
Morton, who said that the Federal agen-
cies have made an excellent start toward
achieving their goal of a 7 percent reduc-
tion in energy consumption. Just as a
single example, the General Services Ad-
ministration in the District of Columbia
has taken steps which should result in a
savings of 164 million kilowatt hours of
electricity annually, reportedly enough
electricity to supply the entire city of
Washington for several days. Among the
actions being taken by the Federal agen-
cies are:
-a lowering of winter temperature
settings to 70-72 degrees, compared
to last year's level of 74-76 degrees;
elimination of unnecessary lighting;
and,
-purchase and rental of vehicles which
use gasoline more efficiently.
Also in today's meeting, Secretary Dent
outlined to me his proposed program to
encourage business and industry to save
energy. As industrial use accounts for 40
percent of all energy consumption in the
United States, our business leaders have a
vital role to play in this effort.
Mrs. Knauer reported this morning on
her efforts to provide consumers with the
information they will need to use energy
wisely.
Finally, I received a report on energy
conservation from my Citizens' Advisory
851
