Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [139]
of the Berlin Agreement of 1971 and
noted the practical improvements it has
brought to the life of the city and its in-
habitants. They agreed that respect of
the letter and spirit of the Berlin Agree-
ment by all parties concerned is essential
for a continuing relaxation of tension in
Europe.
It was considered that expanded inter-
national air traffic to the Western Sectors
of Berlin would constitute further
progress.
The President and the Chancellor, in
discussing events in Southeast Asia, em-
phasized that it is now imperative for
the Paris Agreement to be fully and
scrupulously implemented. Until this is
the case the contributions which the
United States and the Federal Republic
of Germany desire to make to the hu-
manitarian relief and reconstruction of all
the states of Indochina cannot become
fully effective.
The President and the Chancellor
underlined the interest of their govern-
ments in peace and stability in the Middle
East. They expressed their conviction that
steps to initiate negotiations between the
parties most directly concerned, based on
the November 1967 Security Council
Resolution, are essential to help bring
about progress towards a stable peace in
the area.
NOTE: See also Item 136.
139 Radio Address About the Fourth Annual Foreign
Policy Report to the Congress. May 3, 1973
Good evening:
The year 1972 was a time of more
dramatic progress toward a lasting peace
in the world than any other year since
the end of World War II. But as encour-
aging as that progress was, we cannot
rest on our laurels now.
Nineteen hundred seventy-three and
the years to come will test whether Amer-
ica will go forward into a new era of
international relations or whether we will
go backward into preoccupation with our-
selves, thus allowing the world to slip
back into its age-old patterns of conflict.
If we meet this test, the rewards can
be great. If we do not, a priceless oppor-
tunity may be tragically lost.
It is against this background of hope
and danger that I have today submitted
to the Congress my fourth annual report
on United States foreign policy. Tonight
I want to share with you some highlights
of that report.
Since the time of my last foreign policy
review, we have witnessed historic
achievements on a number of fronts. After
more than two decades of hostility and
isolation, we have begun an entirely new
relationship with the People's Republic of
China when I visited Peking last year.
Travel, exchanges, and trade between
our two countries are accelerating. This
month we shall open liaison offices in each
other's capitals, headed by distinguished
senior diplomats.
The United States and the Soviet
Union have taken a decisive turn away
from the confrontation of the past quar-
ter century. At our meeting last May, the
Soviet leaders and I established a set of
basic principles to govern our relations.
We signed a series of cooperative agree-
345
