Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
"general welfare"-must be met within
a reasonable period. The States are mov-
ing very effectively to meet primary stand-
ards established by the Clean Air Act, and
I am encouraged by their efforts.
At the same time, our concern for the
"general welfare" or national interest
should take into account considerations
of national security and economic pros-
perity, as well as our environment.
up
If we insisted upon meeting both pri-
mary and secondary clean air standards
by 1975, we could prevent the use of
to 155 million tons of coal per year. This
would force an increase in demand for oil
of 1.6 million barrels per day. This oil
would have to be imported, with an ad-
verse effect on our balance of payments of
some $1.5 billion or more a year. Such a
development would also threaten the loss
of an estimated 26,000 coal mining jobs.
If, on the other hand, we carry out the
provisions of the Clean Air Act in a judi-
cious manner, carefully meeting the pri-
mary, health-related standards, but not
moving in a precipitous way toward meet-
ing the secondary standards, then we
should be able to use virtually all of that
coal which would otherwise go unused.
The Environmental Protection Agency
has indicated that the reasonable time al-
lowed by the Clean Air Act for meeting
secondary standards could extend beyond
1975. Last year, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency sent to
all State governors a letter explaining
that during the current period of short-
ages in low-sulphur fuel, the States should
not require the burning of such fuels ex-
cept where necessary to meet the primary
standards for the protection of health.
This action by the States should permit
the desirable substitution of coal for low-
sulphur fuel in many instances. I strongly
support this policy.
Many State regulatory commissions
permit their State utilities to pass on in-
creased fuel costs to the consumer in the
form of higher rates, but there are some-
times lags in allowing the costs of en-
vironmental control equipment to be
passed on in a similar way. Such lags dis-
courage the use of environmental control
technology and encourage the use of low-
sulphur fuels, most of which are im-
ported.
To increase the incentive for using new
environmental technology, I urge all State
utility commissions to ensure that utili-
ties receive a rapid and fair return on pol-
lution control equipment, including stack
gas cleaning devices and coal gasification
processes.
As an additional measure to increase
the production and use of coal, I am di-
recting that a new reporting system on
national coal production be instituted
within the Department of the Interior,
and I am asking the Federal Power Com-
mission for regular reports on the use of
coal by utilities.
I am also stepping up our spending for
research and development in coal, with
special emphasis on technology for sul-
phur removal and the development of
low-cost, clean-burning forms of coal.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Although our greatest dependence for
energy until now has been on fossil fuels
such as coal and oil, we must not and we
need not continue this heavy reliance in
the future. The major alternative to fos-
sil fuel energy for the remainder of this
century is nuclear energy.
309
