[181] June 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
famous for the beauty of its nature and, more.
recently, for its surging industrial development.
I would like to use this very pleasant oppor-
tunity, when we are all together here at the
Soviet Embassy, to confirm the invitation con-
veyed to you, Mr. President, on behalf of the
Presidium of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet and
the Soviet Government to make an official visit
to the Soviet Union in 1974. I am confident
that your new trip to the Soviet Union will also
mark another important stage in the successful
development of relations between our two
countries. We will be happy to repay the hos-
pitality shown to us by the President, the Gov-
ernment, and the people of the United States.
And permit me to express the hope that this
time, Mr. President, you will familiarize your-
self more closely with our country, and with its
nature, and with the life of Soviet people.
The cause of developing Soviet-American
relations is, indeed, moving forward. In 2 years,
Soviet and American astronauts will fly into
outer space to carry out the first major joint
experiment in man's history. Now, they know
that from up there in space, our planet looks
even more beautiful, though small. It is big
enough for us to live in peace, but too small to
be subjected to the threat of nuclear war.
I shall be making no mistake if I say that the
spirit of our talks, and the main direction of
our joint efforts, were determined by an aware-
ness of one major factor: Everything must be
done for the peoples of the world to live free
from war, to live in security, cooperation, and
communication with one another. That is the
imperative command of the times, and to that
aim we must dedicate our joint efforts.
Allow me to propose this toast to the health
of the President of the United States of Amer-
ica and Mrs. Nixon, to the further success of
the great cause which we have succeeded in
advancing during our present meeting, to the
docking, on Earth as well as in outer space, of
man's efforts and talents for the good of the
peoples, to peace, friendship, and cooperation
between the Soviet and American peoples, to
peace throughout the world.
[At this point, the President responded to the
General Secretary's toast. The General Secre-
tary then resumed speaking]
Mr. President, and ladies and gentlemen, and
dear guests:
Believe me, I am not trying to make a new,
long toast. [Laughter) But let me just add to
the kind words said here by the President and
to what I said a little earlier that great ideas
bear fruit in the form of a great will and
great energy and vigor, and I, therefore, want
to assure you, Mr. President, and the American
Government, and the American people—and
I trust that the President will reciprocate my
feelings that we, for our part, will go on
working towards this great goal that we have
set ourselves with great vigor and energy-a
great goal that we both mentioned in our re-
marks a little while ago.
And, therefore, permit me yet again, with
great sincerity, to ask you to join me in a toast
to the very good health of the President and to
the great vigor of both our countries in our
efforts to reach our goal of peace and
cooperation.
182 Message to the Skylab 1 Crew Following Splashdown.
June 22, 1973
To Astronauts Conrad, Kerwin, and
Weitz:
The successful completion of the first
mission of Skylab is a source of intense
pride for the American people. You have
demonstrated that just as man can con-
quer the elements of Earth, he can cope
with the exigencies of space. You have
given conclusive evidence that, even with
the most advanced scientific and tech-
nological support in the world, the cour-
age and resourcefulness of good men are
still central to the success of the human
adventure.
On behalf of the American people, I
welcome you home from the Skylab space-
606
