Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 20 [367]
Special Representative for Trade Nego-
tiations
Director, Office of Management and
Budget
Executive Director, Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy
This memorandum establishes the
President's Interagency Committee on
Export Expansion, which will report to
the President through the Council on
International Economic Policy. The Sec-
retary of Commerce will serve as Chair-
man with the other addressees as mem-
bers. The President's Interagency Com-
mittee on Export Expansion will ensure
that programs and policies that affect the
United States export performance are
coordinated and operate effectively to
achieve common objectives.
The Committee will identify, evaluate
and make recommendations concerning
367
impediments to U.S. exports, especially
those which are under Federal control. It
will also consider analysis of other aspects
of the U.S. export performance such as
the ongoing interagency evaluation of
U.S. export promotion programs chaired
by OMB.
The Committee will submit within 90
days its first report on recommendations
concerning impediments to U.S. exports.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11753, establishing the Presi-
dent's Export Council to "serve as a national
advisory body to the President on export ex-
pansion activities."
The White House also released an anounce-
ment of the appointment of 22 members to the
Council. The announcement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 1475).
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Occupational Safety and Health. December 20, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
It was just three years ago that I signed
into law the Occupational Safety and
Health Act of 1970. Since that time, we
have made significant progress toward our
goal of a safe and healthy workplace for
every worker in America.
Today, I am submitting the second
President's Report on Occupational
Safety and Health, outlining the activities
which have taken place under that new
Act in calendar year 1972. The achieve-
ments of that year indicate that the goals
of the Act are becoming realities.
For example, many States have de-
veloped or are now in the process of
developing their own occupational safety
and health plans in accordance with the
Act. As these plans are approved and
carried out, enforcement will begin to
shift from the Federal Government to the
States with no loss in effectiveness.
Because public cooperation is vital to
the success of the program, I am gratified
by the support which has been extended
to this program by the news media, by the
professions, and by the general public. I
am particularly pleased to note the co-
operation and support which industry and
labor organizations have given to these
efforts.
The breadth and complexity of the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Act have
inevitably made it the focal point for con-
troversy and criticism. I believe, however,
that such criticism can be helpful as we
1021
