Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
interest rates which a home mortgage can
carry and still be eligible for FHA and
VA insurance. Unfortunately, setting the
interest rate below market rates does not
accomplish this intended purpose.
The reason is that lenders will simply
not make their money available for hous-
ing at a lower rate than they can get from
a comparable investment elsewhere. If the
Government's interest limit for a mort-
gage is set below the general market level
interest rate, the lender who still puts
money into housing will supplement this
artificially low interest rate by requiring a
special additional payment. This pay-
ment-which is really prepaid interest—
is made in a lump sum at the time the loan
is made and is commonly called "points."
Although points are usually charged to
the seller of a house, they are generally
added to the selling price and thus are
paid by the buyer just the same.
This practice can have a number of un-
fortunate side-effects. By raising the over-
all price of the home, points can also raise
the size of the downpayment. Moreover,
when the price of a house goes up, so does
the cost of insuring that house, of paying
property taxes on it and of making
monthly mortgage payments. An added
inequity arises when a home is resold be-
fore the mortgage term has run its
course-which is the usual case. Since
the points were paid to compensate the
lender for what he would lose on interest
over the full term of the mortgage, the
lender can reap an unfair profit when
the mortgage is paid off early.
In short, the ceiling on interest rates
does just the reverse of what it was in-
tended to do. To end this practice, I again
urge the Congress to allow the FHA and
the VA to insure mortgages carrying mar-
ket rates of interest. This proposal would
end the need for charging points; indeed,
it would prohibit charging such prepaid
interest points on these insured mort-
gages. Hopefully, those States which also
have ceilings on mortgage interest rates
will take similar action to eliminate their
ceilings.
2. Authorizing more flexible repayment
plans under Federally insured mortgages.
Many innovative changes in housing
finance have been introduced by the Fed-
eral Government. It is important that we
continue to pursue such innovation-and
one area that is particularly ripe for new
experiments involves the schedule for re-
paying mortgages.
To further such innovation, I will seek
legislation permitting the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to al-
low greater flexibility in repayment ar-
rangements for Federally insured loans
on an experimental basis.
One possibility which would be tested
under this authority is that of gearing
the level of repayments to expected
changes in family income. Rather than
making the same flat payment over the life
of the loan, families would make smaller
payments in the earlier years-when they
are hardest pressed-and larger payments
later on when their incomes are higher.
This provision could help younger fam-
ilies purchase homes earlier in life than
they can today and it could help them
make an earlier purchase of the home in
which they will eventually live, rather
than making frequent moves from one
home to another as their incomes rise.
3. Establishing a mortgage interest tax
credit.
As another means of ensuring a steady
supply of housing credit, I will propose
805
