[235] Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States not listen to the unilateral
disarmers that would make the United
States the second strongest nation in the
world.
I pledge to you our power will never
be used in aggression. It will be used only
to serve the cause of peace and the cause
of freedom. As far as our strength is con-
cerned, we will be willing to negotiate
and we can negotiate a reduction of the
limitation of arms. But my friends, the
hope of the world for peace, the hope of
200 million Americans and 3 billion peo-
ple in this world, it rests in America—a
strong America-strong in its military de-
fenses, but also strong in its vision and its
will to act like a great nation in a period
when we are very tired of the burdens
we have carried abroad, particularly after
Vietnam and Korea.
I can only say the stakes are high. We
could cop out, as many suggest in the
House and the Senate and in the press-
many, not all. We could cop out from our
responsibilities in the world. We could
cut back our forces. We could quit play-
ing a great role in the world. But if we
do, then our children will live in a very
dangerous war, and no future President
will have much of a chance to get a peace
award.
And so I say to my friends here in this
audience, all of you, whether members of
our organization or guests, that I proudly
accept the Peace Award and hope that
I personally can be worthy of it, but more
important, I hope and I pray that Amer-
ica can be worthy of it, that in these years
ahead a strong America and a strong
people will lead the way to a generation
of peace and one that will lead us even
to a century of peace beyond that time.
It can be done. That is our goal. And
with your help, believe me, we will reach
that goal.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:44 a m. in
the Rivergate Hall.
Prior to addressing the convention, the
President received the Peace Award from Mrs.
James Reid, national president of the Ladies
Auxiliary to the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
236 The President's News Conference of
August 22, 1973
SECRETARY OF STATE
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, I have an announcement before go-
ing to your questions.
It is with the deep sense of not only offi-
cial regret but personal regret, that I an-
nounce the resignation of Secretary of
State William Rogers, effective Septem-
ber 3. A letter, which will be released to
the press after this conference, will indi-
cate my appraisal of his work as Secre-
tary of State.
I will simply say at this time that he
wanted to leave at the conclusion of the
first 4 years. He agreed to stay on, because
we had some enormously important prob-
lems coming up, including the negotia-
tions which resulted in the end of the war
in Vietnam, the Soviet summit, the Eu-
ropean Security Conference, as well as in
other areas- Latin America and in
Asia--where the Secretary of State. as
you know, has been quite busy over these
past 8 months.
As he returns to private life, we will not
710
