Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
FURTHER QUESTIONS ON THE ELLSBERG
CASE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, this is Ed Heins
from the Des Moines Register and Trib-
une. At the time you gave Egil Krogh
approval for the Dr. Ellsberg project, was
there any discussion of surreptitious entry
to any premises, and was there any dis-
cussion of legality or illegality in that
situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, sir, that you
have made an assumption that Mr. Krogh
and others have not testified to-I am not
saying that critically, but I think I do
remember what the evidence is. I don't
think Mr. Krogh has said, or Mr. Ehrlich-
man or anybody else, that I specifically
approved or ordered the entrance into Dr.
Ellsberg's psychiatrist's office. As a matter
of fact, on the other hand, I learned of
that for the first time on the 17th of
March, which I have stated in my Au-
gust 15 statement, which will be available
to the members of the press when this
meeting is concluded.
Second, with regard to such activities,
I personally thought it was a stupid thing
to do, apart from being an illegal thing to
do. And third, I should also point out
that in this particular matter, the reason
that Mr. Krogh and others were engaged
in what we call the "plumbers operation"
was because of our concern at that time
about leaks out of our Government-the
Pentagon Papers, which is, you recall,
what Ellsberg was all about, as well as
other leaks which were seriously damaging
to the national security, including one
that I have pointed out that was so serious
that even Senator Ervin and Senator
Baker agreed it should not be disclosed.
That is what they were working on.
THE PRESIDENT'S INCOME TAXES
[8.] Q. Joe Ungaro of the Providence
Evening Bulletin. The Journal-Bulletin
on October 3 reported that you paid $792
in Federal income tax in 1970, and $878
in 1971. Are these figures accurate, and
would you
tell us your views on whether
elected officials should disclose their per-
sonal finances?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the answer to
the second question is I have disclosed my
personal finances, and an audit of my per-
sonal finances will be made available at
the end of this meeting, because obviously
you are all so busy that when these things
come across your desk, maybe you don't
see them. I can simply point out that that
audit I paid for-I have not gotten the
bill yet but I know it is several thousands
of dollars-and I think that that audit is
one that is a pretty good one. That audit,
however, deals with the acquisition of my
property and knocks down some of the
ideas that have been around. But since
this question has been raised, let me, sir,
try to respond to it as fully as I can.
I paid $79,000 in income tax in 1969.
In the next 2 years, I paid nominal
amounts. Whether those amounts are cor-
rect or not, I do not know, because I have
not looked at my returns, and obviously
the Providence Journal has got much bet-
ter sources than I have to find such re-
turns. And I congratulate you, sir, for
having such a lively staff.
Now, why did I pay this amount? It
was not because of the deductions for,
shall we say, a cattle ranch or interest or,
you know, all of these gimmicks that you
have got where you can deduct from,
which most of you know about, I am
sure—if you don't, your publishers do. But
953
