[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
was broadly printed throughout this coun-
try with retractions not quite getting quite
as much play as the printing of the first,
and particularly not on television. The
newspapers did much better than televi-
sion in that respect, I should point out.
And second, they said, "How is it that
as far as this money is concerned, how
is it possible for you to have this kind
of investment when all you earned was
$800,000 as President?"
Well, I should point out I wasn't a
pauper when I became President. I wasn't
very rich as Presidents go. But you see, in
the 8 years that I was out of office-first,
just to put it all out and I will give you
a paper on this, we will send it around to
you, and these figures I would like you to
have, not today, but I will have it in a
few days-when I left office after 4 years
as a Congressman, 2 years as a Senator,
and 8 years at $45,000 a year as Vice
President, and after stories had been writ-
ten, particularly in the Washington Post
to the effect that the [Vice] President had
purchased a mansion in Wesley Heights
and people wondered where the money
came from, you know what my net worth
was? Forty-seven thousand dollars total,
after 14 years of Government service, and
a 1958 Oldsmobile that needed an
overhaul.
Now, I have no complaints. In the
next 8 years, I made a lot of money. I
made $250,000 from a book and the serial
rights which many of you were good
enough to purchase, also. In the practice
of law-and I am not claiming I was
worth it, but apparently former Vice Pres-
idents or Presidents are worth a great
deal to law firms-and I did work pretty
hard.
But also in that period, I earned be-
tween $100,000 and $250,000 every year.
So that when I, in 1968, decided to be-
come a candidate for President, I decided
to clean the decks and to put everything
in real estate. I sold all my stock for $300,-
000-that is all I owned. I sold my apart-
ment in New York for $300,000-I am
using rough figures here. And I had
$100,000 coming to me from the law firm.
And so, that is where the money came
from. Let me just say this, and I want to
say this to the television audience: I made
my mistakes, but in all of my years of
public life, I have never profited, never
profited from public service-I have
earned every cent. And in all of my years
of public life, I have never obstructed
justice. And I think, too, that I could say
that in my years of public life, that I wel-
come this kind of examination, because
people have got to know whether or not
their President is a crook. Well, I am not
a crook. I have earned everything I have
got.
SURVEILLANCE OF DONALD NIXON
[12.] Q. Mr. President, Harry Rosen-
feld of the Washington Post. Sir, there
have been reports that the Secret Service
was asked, at your direction or authoriza-
tion, to tap the telephone of your brother,
Donald Nixon. Is this true, sir, and if so,
why?
THE PRESIDENT. That, of course, is a
question that has been commented upon
before. It will not take long to respond
to it.
The Secret Service did maintain a sur-
veillance. They did so for security rea-
sons, and I will not go beyond that. They
were very good reasons, and my brother
was aware of it.
And may I say, too, to my friend from
the Washington Post, I like your sport
956
