[118] Apr. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
the ground that it was not administra-
tively feasible to cover many thousands
of family-operated farms which kept no
payroll records. This objection has since
been disproved, however, by the success-
ful extension of income and Social Secu-
rity taxes to a large number of such enter-
prises.
In 1970 the Congress postponed action
on my recommendations for extending
coverage to agricultural labor, directing
instead that a study be made on the ques-
tion. The study was undertaken by the
Department of Labor in cooperation with
land-grant universities and State employ-
ment security agencies, and the results are
now in. They conclusively demonstrate
the administrative and financial feasibil-
ity of extending unemployment insurance
coverage to approximately 66,000 agricul-
tural enterprises employing some 635,000
agricultural workers.
Accordingly, the Job Security Assist-
ance Act which I am recommending to
the Congress would modify the present
agricultural labor exclusion provisions of
the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
bringing under the unemployment system
any farm operator who employs four or
more workers in each of 20 weeks in a
calendar year or who pays wages for agri-
cultural labor of at least $5,000 in a calen-
dar quarter. The change would take effect
on January 1, 1975, thus allowing State
legislatures time to make necessary adjust-
ments in their unemployment compensa-
tion laws.
The criterion of payroll size was not in-
cluded in my 1969 farm coverage pro-
posal. Adding this test strengthens the bill
by substantially increasing the number of
farm jobs affected. The new bill also in-
cludes safeguards to help ensure that
migrant workers-who especially need
unemployment protection--will not be
disqualified because of the special prob-
lems associated with record-keeping and
tax collection in migrant employment.
The coverage definition I am proposing
would provide needed protection to the
employees of larger agricultural businesses
without needlessly adding to the difficul-
ties of small farm operations. It would
achieve coverage for about two-thirds of
all hired farm workers while affecting
fewer than one in 14 farm employers.
In most States, coverage of the larger
agricultural enterprises would be self-
financing, with the contributions of these
concerns meeting the full cost of benefit
payments to their workers who become un-
employed. Net increases in benefit costs
to State pooled funds should be zero in
most cases and negligible in all but two
States. Even in these two instances, the
net increases would amount to only 20
cents or less per $100 of taxable wages.
I know that many in the Congress share
my concern that agricultural employees
are too frequently excluded from the
rights and protections afforded to workers
in other industries, and I hope for prompt
Congressional approval of this proposal so
that we can begin rectifying the injustice.
We cannot in good conscience defer this
action any longer.
MAINTAINING NEUTRALITY IN INDUSTRIAL
DISPUTES
As we move to establish a uniform Fed-
eral standard that would ensure adequate
State benefit levels, we must also insist on
strong safeguards to preserve the neutral-
ity of the unemployment insurance system
in industrial disputes. The unemployment
tax which an employer is required to pay
was never intended to supplement strike
284
