[194] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
194 Radio Address About the Nation's Economy.
July 1, 1973
Good afternoon:
Eighteen days ago, I ordered a freeze
on prices and announced that this freeze
would be followed by a new and stronger
set of controls to check inflation.
Today I want to report to you on some
of the progress we have made and some
of the problems we face.
First, I am pleased to be able to report
that Americans generally are cooperating
in making the freeze a success. Prices are
being held. We are determined that prices
will continue to be held.
In terms of long-range stability, how-
ever, what is important is not the freeze
itself, but what follows it. We might look
at the measures we take as being short-
term, medium-term, and long-term.
The freeze is a short-term measure.
Phase IV is a medium-term measure. The
more fundamental adjustments and dis-
ciplines we are undertaking are long-term
measures.
During these past 22 weeks, we have
been putting the freeze machinery in
place and, at the same time, holding an
intensive series of consultations with per-
sons both inside and outside the Govern-
ment on the design of Phase IV.
By the arbitrariness of its nature, a
freeze is bound to create certain inequities.
It can also add to the problems of scarcity.
We have seen this, for example, in the
fact that some broiler producers have had
to kill off baby chicks because they could
not afford to pay the high feed prices and
still sell the broilers at their ceiling prices.
For this reason, we have been deter-
mined from the outset to keep the freeze
as short as possible. For this reason, also,
the Cost of Living Council is taking a hard
and continuing look at the problems
created by the freeze. These are being
monitored closely by teams from the De-
partment of Agriculture and the Depart-
ment of Commerce. We want to make
sure that the freeze is not administered in
such a way as to be counter-productive,
while recognizing that to be successful it
must be rigorous.
Some have asked why we needed the
freeze, why, with all the experience we
have had with Phase II and Phase III, we
could not simply have announced the new
rules for Phase IV and put them into
effect immediately.
One reason for the freeze was to stop
what were becoming runaway price rises
in a number of basic items, which in turn
were beginning to create inflationary ex-
pectations that could have undermined
our whole effort to stabilize the price
structure.
Beyond this, however, it was vital that
we have genuine consultation with a wide
range of interested parties before launch-
ing Phase IV. Economic conditions are
very different today from those of the
earlier periods; the rules of Phase IV will,
therefore, have to be different. If these
consultations had gone forward without a
freeze, it would have been an open invita-
tion to push prices up in anticipation of
the new rules.
The freeze provides time in which we
can hold these consultations, as part of
designing a new Phase IV that will be
comprehensive and realistic, that will
command the support needed to make it a
success, and that will provide a basis for
returning to free markets.
In recent days, my consumer affairs
632
