[259] Sept. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
recognize the need to preserve this Na-
tion's heritage of paintings, of films, and of
buildings of historic importance and ap-
peal which can be saved for the future
by being adapted to new uses today. It
prompts us further to look to our leading
cultural organizations to bring us together
in performances of the most memorable
works created by Americans in music,
opera, theater, and dance, and through
exhibitions in our Nation's museums. In
the service of these objectives, I look to
the National Endowment for the Arts, and
to the cultural agencies of the States, to
play an important role.
Under the leadership of Miss Hanks
during the past 4 years, the Endowment
has convincingly proved its capacity to
serve the Nation. The Congress has dem-
onstrated its confidence in Miss Hanks'
leadership by increasing appropriations
for the Endowment almost sevenfold dur-
ing her tenure. Recognizing her accom-
plishments, and the need for her leader-
ship in continuing the important work
which she has so far advanced, I take great
pleasure today in nominating Nancy
Hanks for a second term as Chairman of
the National Endowment for the Arts.
NOTE: On the same day, the President met
with Miss Hanks and members of the National
Council on the Arts in the Oval Office at the
White House.
260 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the Council on Environmental Quality.
September 17, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress this Fourth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality.
The year 1970, when I transmitted the
Council's First Annual Report, signalled a
time of great environmental awakening
in the United States. Much has been ac-
complished in the succeeding three years.
In place of organizational disorder and
fragmentation, we have developed insti-
tutions capable of dealing with environ-
mental problems in a systematic and effec-
tive way. At the Federal level, the Council
on Environmental Quality and the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency were estab-
lished in 1970. Most States have created
similar offices, giving greater prominence
and coherence to their own environmen-
tal programs.
We have also enacted new and stronger
environmental protection laws and have
made substantial progress in defining
problems, establishing goals, and design-
ing strategies for abating pollution and
preserving our natural heritage. The
chapter in this report entitled "Perspec-
tives on Environmental Quality" describes
the important progress we have made. In
some instances, such as air pollution, a
national program is well advanced. In
other areas, such as noise pollution, our
work is just beginning. But in all areas,
our knowledge about the environment
and our capacity to protect and preserve
it increase day by day.
Our energies have not been confined
to domestic environmental problems. In
the world community we have provided
strong leadership in responding to envi-
ronmental concerns and in fostering inter-
national efforts to solve problems which
792
