Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 15 [297]
297 Remarks on Presenting the Presidential Medal
of Freedom to William P. Rogers and the
Presidential Citizens Medal to Adele Rogers.
October 15, 1973
IT IS very hard to keep secrets in govern-
ment, and I must say that the other day
here in this room when we announced the
nomination of Gerald Ford as Vice Presi-
dent, that was a pretty well-kept secret.
I think, tonight, this is certainly some-
thing that Bill Rogers does not expect,
and consequently, I think all of us will
enjoy the presentation I am now about to
make.
The Medal of Freedom, as you know,
is the highest civilian honor that can be
given to an American citizen. Bill Rogers
has served for almost 20 years in govern-
ment, and in those 20 years he has served
for 4 years as Attorney General of the
United States and 42 years as Secretary
of State.
In that period as Secretary of State, he
has traveled to 72 countries, has probably
made over 150 speeches, formal and many
more informal, has had to sit through at
least 500 tedious dinners and perhaps
1,000 or even more tedious cocktail par-
ties, but in that period of time, he has
represented this Nation, as we all know,
with very great dignity. He has made us
all very proud of our country and of his
representation of that country as Secretary
of State.
I think that a French Foreign Minister
put it pretty well when he summed up.
Secretary Rogers' qualities. I think it was
something like this. He said that Secre-
tary Rogers always says the words that
he means, always means the words that
he
says, but doesn't always say the words
that he means, and he said, "I" he went
further to say, he said—“I am always
happy when he agrees with me, but I am
never unhappy when he disagrees with
me. That is the mark of a very successful
Secretary of State."
As you know, of course, we have en-
joyed the friendship of the Rogerses for
over 30 years. We met 32 years ago at
Quonset Point when we were both one
of the lowest forms of life, I mean lieu-
tenants, junior grade, in the United States
Navy Reserve, and we have been close
friends since that time.
But tonight, both as a personal friend
and recognizing his services during the
period I was Vice President and now in
the period as President, and representing
all of the American people, I have the
honor to present to William P. Rogers the
Medal of Freedom. I shall read the
citation:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
ΤΟ
WILLIAM P. ROGERS
Prosecutor, Congressional investigator, and
Cabinet leader under two Presidents, his bril-
liant career of public service has spanned more
than a third of a century and touched all
three branches of Government. As the 63rd
Attorney General of the United States, he
pioneered in the battle for equal rights. As the
Nation's 55th Secretary of State, he played an
indispensable role in ending our longest war
and in starting to build a new structure of
peace. Through these efforts, the decency and
integrity that are William Rogers' personal
stamp are now felt more strongly among all
877
