Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
lations with those Arab states with whom
we enjoyed good relations for most of the
postwar period but which broke relations
with us in 1967. We were able to restore
diplomatic relations with the Yemen Arab
Republic at the time of Secretary of State
Rogers' visit there in July 1972; reestab-
lishment of ties with Sudan followed
shortly thereafter. We assigned two Amer-
ican diplomats to the interests section in
Baghdad, Iraq, in 1972. We have just con-
cluded an agreement with Algeria on a
major project for the import of Algerian
liquified natural gas. The United States
is prepared for normal bilateral relations
with all the nations of the Middle East.
The European Community is also ex-
panding and consolidating direct ties with
many nations of the Middle East and
North Africa. This is a natural develop-
ment; it builds on historical relationships
and the economic advantages of geog-
raphy. It gives these nations a greater
stake in relations with the West. It gives
the Western European countries an im-
portant role in maintaining the structure
of peace beyond Europe. We are con-
cerned, however, that as these relations
evolve they not embody discriminatory
arrangements which adversely affect our
trade and that of other countries.
Economic competition in the Middle
East between the United States and other
free world nations could be particularly
damaging in the critical area of energy.
The traditional relationship between sup-
pliers and consumers of energy has radi-
cally, and probably irrevocably, changed.
In the Persian Gulf, where about two-
thirds of the world's known oil reserves
are located, Arab oil-producing countries
have joined to reorder their relations with
the international oil industry and the con-
sumer countries. Iran has taken over oper-
ation of the companies working there. Our
own requirements for Persian Gulf oil
have been small-about ten percent of our
total oil imports-but they will rise as U.S.
energy demand expands. Assurance of the
continuing flow of Middle East energy re-
sources is increasingly important for the
United States, Western Europe, and Ja-
pan. This should be addressed as a com-
mon interest.
As for the relations between producer
and consumer nations, here too we believe
there is a shared interest. We both stand
to gain from a stable and reliable eco-
nomic relationship, ensuring revenues for
them and energy resources for us. Oil
revenues paid to Persian Gulf states have
trebled in the last five years, financing
their economic development and provid-
ing an expanding market for us. Their
rapidly growing foreign exchange reserves
give them increasing weight-and an in-
creasing stake in the international mone-
tary system. We share these countries' de-
sire to find arrangements which enhance
the region's prosperity while assuring an
effective means for meeting the world's
demand for energy.
THE REGIONAL FRAMEWORK
Stability in the Middle East does not
depend only on Arab-Israeli peace and
stable relationships with and among the
great powers. Personal rivalries, ideologi-
cal conflict, territorial disputes, economic
competition, religious and ethnic divisions
are indigenous sources of turmoil which
exacerbate and are in turn exacerbated
by-these other tensions. Stability there-
fore depends also on strengthening
regional forces for cooperation and
collaboration.
At the end of 1971, the nations of the
451
