[252] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
full force this month. The Federal Reserve
is checking the growth in the Nation's
money supply. We have moved vigorously
to expand production, especially food
production, and so to reduce the pressure
on food prices.
But we could succeed on these three
fronts that I have mentioned and we still
would lose the battle against inflation,
unless we prevail also on the fourth front,
and that is-we must hold the line on
Federal spending.
We still face the prospect of strong
new inflationary pressures as a result of
overspending by the Federal Government.
Programs which the Congress either has
already passed or is now considering would
produce an additional deficit of $6 billion,
and in addition, the Congress has not yet
made nearly $12 billion of cuts that I
have recommended. If these actions by
the Congress stand, the result will be
higher prices for every American family.
The Federal budget is your budget. It
is your budget because you pay for it with
your taxes; it is also your budget because it
determines whether the prices of what you
buy allow you to stay within your family
budget.
The most important contribution the
Congress can make toward holding down
the cost of living is to hold down the cost
of Government. But we cannot expect the
Congress to do this without your help,
without your support in those difficult
decisions every Member of Congress faces
when confronted with a vote on a bill
that would help some of the people, but
that would raise the cost of living for all
of the people.
The stable prosperity we seek depends
also on our full participation in an in-
creasingly prosperous world. A unique and
historic opportunity now exists to nego-
tiate an open and equitable world of trade.
Most nations have declared their readi-
ness to join in this endeavor. To give us
the tools we need for this full participa-
tion in this effort, I urge the Congress to
act promptly on the Trade Reform Act
of 1973, which I proposed in April. This
legislation will enable us, in the difficult
negotiations which lie ahead, to assure jobs
for American workers, markets for Ameri-
can products, opportunities for American
investors, and lower prices for American
consumers.
Assuring sufficient energy supplies, now
and in the future, is another area of urgent
national concern. We had a gasoline scare
this summer. We could have serious short-
ages of heating oil this winter. Unless we
take prompt and effective action, we can
expect little relief from fuel scarcity in
the years ahead.
We have taken important administra-
tive actions already to relieve the situa-
tion, and we will take additional steps in
the next few weeks. But the solution to
the energy problem in the long run re-
quires action by the Congress and action
now.
There are seven important proposals
now before the Congress, designed to help
meet our energy needs, on which I am
awaiting action. To avoid a major energy
crisis in the years ahead, it is vitally im-
portant that the Congress act on these
seven proposals before it recesses this year.
These proposals include, among others,
measures to expand the supply of natural
gas by deregulating prices; to open the
way for creation of the deepwater ports
needed for modern oil tankers; to im-
prove our organization to meet energy
needs; and of particular importance, to
give the go-ahead for building the Alaska
pipeline, which already has been delayed
758
