Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 16 [332]
President, Dr. Pecora's widow, who is
here today, and who received the first
pen, deserves our special attention because
it was he, a number of years ago, who
pointed out the fact that this Nation was
headed in a direction that would spell
nothing but crisis for us.ยน
He called a long time ago for us to do
something about supply, and I am sure
Mrs. Pecora is very pleased today to be
here to see you take this action, which
will implement a very major step forward
in doing something about increasing
supply.
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact,
I want to say, Mrs. Pecora, that it was
your husband who was the moving force
behind the first energy message ever sent
to the Congress by a President of the
United States, which was, of course, 2
years ago in 1971. I really should have
called it the Pecora message, but now we
see some of the beginnings.
I also would like to say, as I tried to em-
phasize yesterday, that there is a tendency
sometimes for us when we talk about a
crisis or a problem to get very excited, and
after you make the presentation to the
Congress or on television, and then
to sort of forget about it and think about
what the next crisis may be.
I want to emphasize very strongly that
because of the progress, and it has been
real progress, that we have made in the
Mideast, because of the possibility, and it
is still just a possibility, but it is, I think,
a reasonable possibility that at some time
in the future we can see some change with
regard to some of the Arab oil-producing
ยน Dr. William T. Pecora, a research scientist
with the Geological Survey in the Department
of the Interior for more than 30 years, was Un-
der Secretary of the Interior from 1971 until
his death in 1972.
countries and their attitude toward ex-
porting to the United States and to Eu-
rope, which affects us indirectly because
of the residuals that Europe sends to us.
While that can happen, even if it hap-
pened tomorrow, we would still have an
energy crisis for this year. That is a thing
we have to remember. That is why it seems
to me that as we move on the Alaska pipe-
line, which deals with the longer range
problem, it is not going to help us with
our automobile fuel this year or with our
power or anything else this year, but it will
in the years ahead.
But as we think of the energy crisis, let
us handle it this year. It will require some
sacrifice by all, and no suffering by any.
But beyond that, let us think primarily of
the greater goal, and that is, the goal
of what I call "Project Independence
1980." That is a realistic goal.
By 1980, the United States of America
can be and must be independent of any
reliance upon any foreign source for its
energy, because energy is essential for
everything that we do. And in this con-
nection, that is why we must move for-
ward in the nuclear field.
We have got to move forward in the
natural gas field, recognizing its contro-
versy, the deregulation there under some
proper circumstances to protect the con-
sumer, and we have got to move forward
particularly in the coal field, where we
have half the coal in the world, and have
to have ways to extract it that will not de-
spoil the environment, and also to clean
it up so that once it is used, it will not then
have an adverse effect on the environ-
ment.
I will just say finally that as we sign
this bill, I know that much of the reason
for the delay was concern by very fine
people in Alaska about the environment.
31-870 O 75 - 63
-
943
