[115] Apr. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
needed to keep them. Yet Federal regula-
tions at present are lenient on this point,
requiring that only a small portion of pen-
sion liabilities be put aside or "funded"
each year.
My retirement savings proposal would
augment this minimal protection with an
additional requirement calling for at least
5 percent of the unfunded, vested liabili-
ties in a pension plan to be funded an-
nually. Over time, this rate of funding
would build up substantial assets for the
payment of pension benefits. It would
make the average employee or retiree less
dependent for his pension upon the sur-
vival of a former employer's business.
By requiring employers to be more fore-
handed and systematic in preparing to
meet their pension obligations, this re-
form should help to reduce the frequency
and magnitude of benefit losses when pen-
sion plans terminate. Even now the ter-
mination problem is not a major one: a
study conducted at my direction last year
by the Departments of Labor and the
Treasury found that about 3100 retired,
retirement-eligible, and vested workers
lost pension benefits through terminations
in the first 7 months of 1972, with losses
totalling some $10 million. To put them
in perspective, these losses should be com-
pared with the more than $10 billion in
benefits paid annually.
I also recognize, however, that these
pension termination losses did work very
real injustices and hardships on the in-
dividual workers affected, and on their
families. Though the stricter funding
requirements we are proposing will help
to minimize these benefit losses, it has also
been suggested that a Government-
sponsored termination insurance program
should be established to see that no work-
ers or retirees whatever suffer termination
losses.
After giving this idea thorough consid-
eration, I am not recommending it at this
time. No insurance plan has yet been de-
vised which is neither on the one hand so
permissive as to make the Government
liable for any agreement reached between
employees and employers, nor on the
other hand so intrusive as to entail Gov-
ernment regulation of business practices
and collective bargaining on a scale out
of keeping with our free enterprise sys-
tem. With new support from the funding
standard I am requesting, the private sec-
tor will be in a better position than the
Federal Government to devise protection
against the small remaining termination
loss problem, and I encourage employers,
unions, and private insurance companies
to take up this challenge.
3. Employees who wish to save inde-
pendently for their retirement or to sup-
plement employer-financed pensions
should be allowed to deduct on their in-
come tax returns amounts set aside for
these purposes.
Under present law, neither an employ-
er's contribution to a qualified private
retirement plan on behalf of his em-
ployees, nor the investment earnings on
those contributions, are generally subject
to taxes until benefits are paid to the re-
tired worker or his family. When an em-
ployee contributes to a group plan, the
tax liability on investment earnings is
similarly deferred--though in this case
the contribution itself is taxable when
initially received as salary. By contrast, a
worker investing in a retirement savings
program of his own is actually subject
year by year to a double tax blow. He is
taxed both on the savings contributions
276
