[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
domestic producers. Under my proposal,
a finding of "market disruption" would
constitute prima facie evidence of that
fact. Market disruption would be defined
as occurring when imports are substan-
tial, are rising rapidly both absolutely
and as a percentage of total domestic con-
sumption, and are offered at prices sub-
stantially below those of competing
domestic products.
My proposed legislation would give the
President greater flexibility in providing
appropriate relief from import prob-
lems-including orderly marketing agree-
ments or higher tariffs or quotas. Re-
straints could be imposed for an initial
period of five years and, at the discretion
of the President, could be extended for
an additional period of two years. In ex-
ceptional cases, restrictions could be ex-
tended even further after a two-year
period and following a new investigation
by the Tariff Commission.
IMPROVING ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE
Our responsibilities for easing the prob-
lems of displaced workers are not limited
to those whose unemployment can be
traced to imports. All displaced workers
are entitled to adequate assistance while
they seek new employment. Only if all
workers believe they are getting a fair
break can our economy adjust effectively
to change.
I will therefore propose in a separate
message to the Congress new legislation
to improve our systems of unemployment
insurance and compensation. My pro-
posals would set minimum Federal
standards for benefit levels in State pro-
grams, ensuring that all workers covered
by such programs are treated equitably,
whatever the cause of their involuntary
unemployment. In the meantime, until
these standards become effective, I am
recommending as a part of my trade re-
form proposals that we immediately es
tablish benefit levels which meet these
proposed general standards for workers
displaced because of imports.
I further propose that until the new
standards for unemployment insurance
are in place, we make assistance for
workers more readily available by drop-
ping the present requirement that their
unemployment must have been caused by
prior tariff concessions and that imports
must have been the "major cause" of in-
jury. Instead, such assistance would be
authorized if the Secretary of Labor de-
termined that unemployment was sub-
stantially due to import-related causes.
Workers unemployed because of imports
would also have job training, job search
allowances, employment services and re-
location assistance available to them as
permanent features of trade adjustment
assistance.
In addition, I will submit to the Con-
gress comprehensive pension reform legis-
lation which would help protect workers
who lose their jobs against loss of pen-
sion benefits. This legislation will contain
a mandatory vesting requirement which
has been developed with older workers
particularly in mind.
The proposed Trade Reform Act of
1973 would terminate the present pro-
gram of adjustment assistance to individ-
ual firms. I recommend this action be-
cause I believe this program has been
largely ineffective, discriminates among
firms within a given industry and has
needlessly subsidized some firms at the
taxpayer's expense. Changing competi-
tive conditions, after all, typically act not
upon particular firms but upon an in-
264
