Richard Nixon, 1973
July 26 [219]
218 Statement About the Death of Louis S. St. Laurent.
July 26, 1973
THE death of Louis St. Laurent ends a
long life of distinguished service to Can-
ada and to the community of nations.
As I recall Prime Minister St. Laurent's
many contributions to the structure of
world peace, I think particularly of his
instrumental role in the creation of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. To-
day NATO stands as an important monu-
ment to his leadership.
The many friends of Louis St. Laurent
in the United States also remember with
special gratitude and affection his tireless
contributions to the cause of friendship
and cooperation between our countries.
Mrs. Nixon and I join in mourning his
death.
NOTE: Mr. St. Laurent, 91, died in Quebec
City, Canada, on July 25, 1973. He was Prime
Minister of Canada from 1948 to 1957.
219 Statement About Budget Results for Fiscal Year 1973.
July 26, 1973
THE best way to hold down the cost of
living is to hold down the cost of govern-
ment. Today there is new and encourag-
ing evidence that we can win that battle.
The latest Monthly Statement of Re-
ceipts and Outlays shows that Federal
outlays for fiscal year 1973 were held to
$246.6 billion-a figure well below the
$250 billion ceiling on spending that I
had recommended to the Congress. Since
overall receipts totaled $232.2 billion, the
deficit for fiscal year 1973 was $14.4 bil-
lion. This was a much smaller deficit than
the $24.8 billion deficit projected in my
budget message last January. Moreover,
the budget was within $2 billion of being
in balance during the period from Janu-
ary to June of this year-a period when
it was especially important to hold down
government spending.
During the debates on budget policy
last fall and last winter, it was widely as-
sumed and frequently asserted that we
could not hold spending to the $250 bil-
lion level and that the only way to pro-
duce an anti-inflationary budget was by
increasing taxes. I rejected that conten-
tion then-and I reject it now, as we look
to a new fiscal year. We held the budget
line in the year just past without raising
taxes. I believe we can do so again—and,
in fact, achieve a balanced budget—in
fiscal year 1974.
In earlier years, budget deficits have
sometimes helped take the slack out of
the economy and increase employment.
However, we recognized in the summer
of 1972 that a major problem was devel-
oping as the economic boom got well
underway. We could foresee that the pres-
sures from existing Federal programs and
new legislation could push spending for
fiscal year 1973 to $260 billion or more—
much more than we thought an already
strong economy could tolerate without
greater inflation. I therefore called upon
the Congress to hold the line on spending
at $250 billion.
The Congress has acted responsibly on
that request. There have been many dif-
ferences between the Congress and the
Administration over the level of Federal
667
