Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
enriching our cultural and intellectual life,
and they continue to deserve our strong
support.
METRIC CONVERSION
Americans cherish tradition and our
own way of doing things. Having been
acculturated from childhood to the con-
cepts of an inch, a mile, or a pound, we
are understandably nonplussed when we
consider the notion of a centimeter, a kilo-
meter, a gram or a kilo. However, when
we realize that the rest of the world is
equally confused by our system of meas-
urement, we must conclude, however
sadly, that we are the ones who are out
of step.
In a world of integrated commerce and
increasing personal exchange, it is only
prudent for us to adjust our own concep-
tions and devices for measuring and
delineating quantity.
I have recommended to the Congress
that it pass legislation to convert America
to the metric system. This can be done in
a reasonable manner, one which is not
abrupt or disconcerting. I am pleased to
note that the Administration's proposal is
presently before the appropriate House
subcommittee. I ask that the Senate give
equally expeditious consideration
effecting this necessary change.
REORGANIZATION AUTHORITY
to
The authority of the President to sub-
mit Reorganization Plans to the Con-
gress lapsed in April of this year and
has not yet been renewed.
This authority permits the President
to organize programs and agencies in or-
der to achieve the most effective and effi-
cient performance. It is, therefore, an im-
portant executive management tool which
provides flexibility and increased capacity
to respond to changing needs.
This authority has been made available
to every President for more than 25 years.
It is essential that it be renewed with great
dispatch.
KEEPING THE PEACE
For the first time in more than a decade,
America is at peace. Now we must learn
how to keep that peace-a task that is at
least as demanding and in many ways
even more subtle than the struggle to end
a war.
There is always a temptation after war
to enter into a period of withdrawal and
isolation. But surely we have learned from
past lessons of precipitate disarmament
that this temptation must be resisted. And
surely we have also learned that our prog-
ress in securing peace is due in large
measure to our continued military
strength and to the steadfast, responsible
role we have played in the affairs of our
world.
DEFENSE SPENDING
In recent years, it has been fashionable
to suggest that whatever we want in the
way of extra programs at home could be
painlessly financed by lopping 5 or 10 or
20 billion dollars off the defense budget.
This approach is worse than foolhardy;
it is suicidal. We could have the finest ar-
ray of domestic programs in the world,
and they would mean nothing if we lost
our freedom or if, because of our weak-
ness, we were plunged into the abyss of nu-
clear war.
The world's hope for peace depends on
America's strength-it depends absolutely
on our never falling into the position of
31-870 O 75-53
-
783
