[91] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
at problems does not solve anything; it
only creates poor legislation which fre-
quently misses the target.
As President, it is my duty to sound the
warning-and to defend the public in-
terest by vetoing fiscally irresponsible,
badly constructed bills that come to my
desk from Capitol Hill. S. 7 is such a bill.
Over the past nineteen months, we have
made significant headway toward a goal
that has eluded America for nearly two
decades: full prosperity without war.
But all of our economic progress-and
all of our hopes-will be washed away if
we open the floodgates on the Federal
budget.
S. 7, if enacted, would result in an in-
crease in Federal outlays of some $1 bil-
lion above my budget recommendations
for fiscal years 1973-1975.
To some Members of the Congress, a
$1 billion increase in Federal spending
may seem only a small crack in the dam.
But there are more than a dozen other
bills already before the Congress which
also carry extravagant price tags. And
more seem likely to follow during the
remainder of the year.
If we allow the big spenders to sweep
aside budgetary restraints, we can expect
an increase of more than $50 billion in
Federal spending before the end of fiscal
year 1975. This would force upon us the
unacceptable choice of either raising taxes
substantially-perhaps as much as 15%
in personal income taxes-or inviting a
hefty boost in consumer prices and inter-
est rates.
The American people have repeatedly
shown that they want to hold a firm line
on both prices and taxes. I stand solidly
with them. At a time when the world is
watching to see if we can demonstrate our
willingness to hold down inflation at home
while we seek monetary stability abroad,
this resolve is more important than ever.
I shall therefore veto those big-spending
bills which would jeopardize our eco-
nomic hopes for the future.
I would emphasize that even if S. 7
were not fatally flawed by its large ex-
pense, I would have serious reservations
about signing it, for it also contains a
number of substantive defects. Among
them:
-It would further divert the Voca-
tional Rehabilitation program from its
original purposes by requiring that it pro-
vide new medical services. For instance,
it would set up a new program for end-
stage kidney disease-a worthy concern
in itself, but one that can be approached
more effectively within the Medicare
program, as existing legislation already
provides.
Vocational Rehabilitation has worked
well for over half a century by focusing on
a single objective: training people for
meaningful jobs. We should not dilute the
resources of that program or distort its
objective by turning it toward welfare or
medical goals.
-Secondly, S. 7 would create a hodge-
podge of seven new categorical grant pro-
grams, many of which would overlap and
duplicate existing services. Coordination
of services would become considerably
more difficult and would place the Fed-
eral Government back on the path to
wasteful, overlapping program disasters.
-By rigidly cementing into the law
the organizational structures of the Reha-
bilitation Services Administration and by
confusing the lines of management re-
sponsibility, S. 7 would also prevent the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
224
