Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
our security without drawing increasingly
on funds required for such essential in-
tangibles as force manning, training, and
readiness.
We are taking a number of innovative
steps to grapple with this problem. In
evaluating proposals for increased techni-
cal sophistication, more weight is now
being given to cost, and greater care is
being devoted to assessing the real gain in
terms of mission relevance and military
effectiveness. In addition, combinations
of high and low cost weapons are being
developed for major missions. For exam-
ple, a less costly lightweight fighter is be-
ing developed at the same time as the
highly sophisticated F-15 fighter. This ap-
proach also has been used in meeting
diverse ship requirements. Low-cost patrol
frigates are being purchased for con-
voy duties while more expensive nuclear-
powered guided missile frigates are being
constructed to escort nuclear carriers as
part of a rapid reaction task force.
We also are improving techniques for
closer monitoring of the development
process. Benchmarks have been estab-
lished for more frequent checking of
compliance with cost and performance
standards. Operational testing is being
emphasized to ensure that new equipment
is reliable and effective under combat
conditions.
Manpower. Rising manpower costs are
one of the most significant factors limiting
overall force levels and the resources avail-
able for modernization. Even after the
large personnel reductions we have made,
manpower today takes more than half the
defense budget. These rising costs result
principally from the effort to make mili-
tary pay competitive with that of other
professions. While the program to attract
volunteers and correct past financial in-
equities is expensive, it is also essential to
manning our armed forces at adequate
levels.
Our success in attracting volunteers into
the services gives us confidence that man-
power constraints will not seriously limit
the manning of our forces in peacetime.
We are now able to support our military
strategy without a draft. When I first an-
nounced my intention to end the draft,
many feared we would not be able to
maintain the force levels, readiness, and
morale needed to support defense needs
in an increasingly technical environment.
But initial experience under this program
suggests these fears were unwarranted.
The quality of volunteers has fully met
the service needs and compares favorably
with the quality in the past.
Current projections indicate that the
portion of the defense budget devoted to
manpower should stabilize, but the ex-
pense of personnel programs will require
continuing attention.
Defense Spending. Allocation of re-
sources between security needs and do-
mestic requirements is one of the most dif-
ficult tasks of the budgetary process.
Though the upward pressures of man-
power and weapons costs have compli-
cated the problem, defense spending has
leveled off in real terms. As a result, we
have been able to shift Federal budgetary
priorities markedly from security toward
domestic needs. Defense today takes only
six percent of our total national output,
compared to eight to nine percent in the
1960's. National security once took nearly
half of every budget dollar; now it re-
quires less than one-third.
Nevertheless, unless we aggressively
meet the management challenge of spiral-
ing weapons and manpower costs, it will
be nearly impossible to maintain modern
489
