[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
heads U.S. drug control efforts overseas,
requested our ambassadors in each of 59
countries to prepare narcotics control ac-
tion plans. These were reviewed early in
1972 in Washington and returned to our
embassies to serve as the basis for negoti-
ating bilateral narcotics control programs.
By letter of February 16, 1972, I ad-
vised the appropriate Chiefs of Mission
that the most essential element in such
programs was to convince leaders of coun-
tries where drug production and traffick-
ing occur to commit their governments
to attacking the narcotics problem with
urgency and determination. Last Sep-
tember, at a special Washington confer-
ence of senior U.S. narcotics control offi-
cers from around the world, I empha-
sized my readiness under the provisions of
the Foreign Assistance Act both to assist
cooperating countries and to suspend eco-
nomic and military assistance to any coun-
try which fails to take adequate steps
against illicit drug traffic. By mid-year,
our embassies had initiated discussions
with all target countries, and since then
they have concentrated on the implemen-
tation of cooperative action programs.
The results of our international anti-
drug effort have been most encouraging.
Worldwide seizures of heroin and mor-
phine base tripled in 1971 and nearly
doubled again in 1972. In 1972 some of
the most important figures in the world
drug traffic were arrested, and a number
of high level traffickers were extradited to
the United States from other countries.
Five heroin laboratories in the Marseilles
area were shut down by the French au-
thorities during the year. Steps have been
taken, particularly in Laos and Thailand,
to tighten controls on drug smuggling
from Southeast Asia. We have cooper-
ated with other countries in drug treat-
ment, rehabilitation, and education ef-
forts, and in crop substitution and eradi-
cation measures. The Turkish ban on
opium cultivation, for example, has been
implemented resolutely. Multilateral ef-
forts to fight illicit narcotics production
and trafficking have also received full
U.S. support. This country has been the
chief contributor to the United Nations
Fund for Drug Abuse Control, which has
started narcotics control programs in
Thailand and Afghanistan. And we have
initiated proposals to amend and
strengthen the Single Convention on Nar-
cotics Drugs.
With more and more countries now
working to stop drug trafficking, seizures
and arrests are up dramatically both here
and abroad. This progress has helped to
reduce the illicit drug supply in the United
States. During 1972 the price of street
level heroin in the eastern half of the
country rose sharply, the quality declined,
and new users had difficulty locating
sources of supply.
These gains notwithstanding, a sus-
tained vigorous campaign is still required
against what has become one of the most
serious of the world's social ills. The
United States will continue to provide
leadership in that worldwide campaign.
POPULATION
Twenty years ago the world's popula-
tion was less than 2,600,000,000. Today
it is more than 3,800,000,000. In just these
two decades, the human family has in-
creased by nearly half the total population
attained in all the millennia before. In
most of the developing countries, popula-
tions will double in the next 20 to 28
years.
Rapid population growth burdens and
512
