Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 11 [37]
-In addition, the Relocation Assist-
ance Implementation Committee, formed
pursuant to my memorandum of Janu-
ary 4, 1971, has undertaken a number of
projects to increase uniformity and effec-
tiveness in carrying out the law. For ex-
ample, a pilot test is being conducted to
develop standard application forms so that
all displacees, regardless of the program
that displaces them, may be able to follow
uniform instructions when seeking bene-
fits under the Act.
-As a further step toward uniform and
equitable treatment of individuals affected
by Federal and federally assisted acquisi-
tion programs, the Office of Management
and Budget has encouraged all concerned
Federal agencies to conduct early audit
programs to check progress. I understand
that the General Accounting Office has
also been engaged in a review of the im-
plementation of the law. I appreciate this
effort and I am confident that Federal
agencies will continue to cooperate in
making improvements in these programs.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
February 8, 1973.
37 Informal Exchange With Reporters About the Return
of American Prisoners of War From Southeast Asia.
February 11, 1973
REPORTER. What have you heard about
how the POW release is going?
THE PRESIDENT. I have only heard that
the release is going on according to sched-
ule. I am keeping, of course, in very close
connection with it. I have had two mes-
sages from Dr. Kissinger, incidentally. He
is in Hanoi. I had one yesterday afternoon,
a very brief message, and then I had an-
other message today.
The communications are excellent be-
cause we have our plane there, which he
uses for communication, just as he had
when he went on his first trip to Peking,
and as you remember, the People's Re-
public allowed us to bring our plane in.
That gives us secure communications.
During the time he is there, he is sending
a message daily, perhaps twice daily, if
necessary. And I respond, of course, and
will, as questions arise, through communi-
cations.
This sounds like details, but it is enor-
mously important. When you are going to
the capital of a country with which you
have no relations whatever, such com-
munications are very important.
He, of course, has had some sort of a
trial run, because having had the same
problem in Peking, he now knows how to
handle it here.
Q. What are you going to do today,
Mr. President, later on, about the
prisoners?
THE PRESIDENT. I had not planned to
do anything, due to the fact that I want
them to have the opportunity to see their
families and talk to their families, and I
am glad the telephone calls have been
arranged, without having anybody try to
exploit them or interfere.
I called, this morning, General Scow-
croft,ยน and he assured me when they ar-
ยน Brig. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, USAF, was
Military Assistant to the President.
85
