Richard Nixon, 1973
June 15 [175]
minded, of one of the most famous
speeches he ever made and he made so
very many-a speech in which he talked
about those grandchildren, the two of
them, and their generation of Americans.
It was on the Senate floor in 1962. Lis-
ten to what he said: "I have a couple of
grandchildren in Tennessee. They are
growing up. They will be the custodians
and trustees of this country when they
grow up. I want them to have a country
free, solvent, and secure, like the one their
granddad had. Along with it, I want to
vouchsafe to them as a legacy the last best
hope of peace. What greater contribution
can we make to those who will come after
us than to enable them to summon up
out of their souls all the talent the Lord
gave them in an atmosphere of peace to
achieve whatever a free country has to
offer."
I only regret that Senator Dirksen could
not have lived to this day, because he be-
lieved in peace; he knew that it was not
easy to attain or easy to retain once you
got it. But I am sure that on this particular
day, as he looked over the developments
of particularly the last year, he would say,
"My grandchildren, all the children of
America, have a better chance for peace
today than in any generation in this
century."
For example, think of where we are.
For the first time in 12 years, America is at
peace in Vietnam, and we can be thankful
for that. For the first time in 8 years, all of
our prisoners of war are home here in
America. We can be thankful for that.
And as I see so many of high school age,
in their teens and, perhaps, early
twenties for the first time in a genera-
tion, no young American will be drafted
for the armed services. He can volunteer.
Now, those points I anticipated would
all be applauded. Let me say to you, how-
ever, Senator Dirksen would have recog-
nized that those achievements, great as
they are ending a difficult war, ending
the draft-from the standpoint of his
grandchildren and all of our children, are
not nearly as important as two other sig-
nificant developments of the last year.
I return again to Peking, China. I point
out the fact that in February of last year,
we opened a dialog with the leaders of
the People's Republic of China. Many of
my friends, many of Everett Dirksen's
friends, didn't approve of that, because it
is a Communist country, the leaders are
Communists. We do not agree with their
philosophy. But I made that move be-
cause I was thinking not just of this gen-
eration but of the next generation.
I made that move because one-fourth of
all the people in the world live in the
People's Republic of China. I made that
move because those people who live there
are among the ablest people in the world.
And I knew that unless we in the United
States moved to a dialog with them
now, that there would be a deadly danger
to peace and freedom in the years ahead.
Now we are in a situation where we are
talking about our differences and not
fighting about them. That is vitally im-
portant, and it is also important in an-
other way.
We must not think of that visit as de-
signed solely to avoid war in the Pacific,
but we must also think of its positive terms.
Just a few days ago I welcomed 12 Chinese
doctors who were here on an exchange
visit. Two were women; 10 were men.
Their interest, among many other things,
was in our program to find a cure for can-
cer, or cures for various types of cancer. I
told them about our program, and as I
talked to them and as I thought of their
31-870 - 75-41
591
