Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
These barriers to trade, in other coun-
tries and in ours, presently cost the United
States several billion dollars a year in the
form of higher consumer prices and the
inefficient use of our resources. Even an
economy as strong as ours can ill afford
such losses.
Fortunately, our major trading part-
ners have joined us in a commitment to
broad, multilateral trade negotiations be-
ginning this fall. These negotiations will
provide a unique opportunity for reducing
trading barriers and expanding world
trade.
It is in the best interest of every nation
to sell to others the goods it produces more
efficiently and to purchase the goods
which other nations produce more effi-
ciently. If we can operate on this basis,
then both the earnings of our workers and
the buying power of our dollars can be
significantly increased.
But while trade should be more open,
it should also be more fair. This means,
first, that the rules and practices of trade
should be fair to all nations. Secondly, it
means that the benefits of trade should be
fairly distributed among American work-
ers, farmers, businessmen and consumers
alike and that trade should create no un-
due burdens for any of these groups.
I am confident that our free and vig-
orous American economy can more than
hold its own in open world competition.
But we must always insist that such com-
petition take place under equitable rules.
THE URGENT NEED FOR ACTION
The key to success in our coming trade
negotiations will be the negotiating au-
thority the United States brings to the
bargaining table. Unless our negotiators
can speak for this country with sufficient
authority, other nations will undoubtedly
be cautious and non-committal-and the
opportunity for change will be lost.
We must move promptly to provide our
negotiators with the authority their task
requires. Delay can only aggravate the
strains we have already experienced. Dis-
ruptions in world financial markets, def-
icits in our trading balance, inflation in
the international marketplace, and ten-
sions in the diplomatic arena all argue for
prompt and decisive action. So does the
plight of those American workers and
businesses who are damaged by rapidly
rising imports or whose products face bar-
riers in foreign markets.
For all of these reasons, I urge the Con-
gress to act on my recommendations as
expeditiously as possible. We face pressing
problems here and now. We cannot wait
until tomorrow to solve them.
PROVIDING NEW NEGOTIATING
AUTHORITIES
Negotiators from other countries will
bring to the coming round of trade dis-
cussions broad authority to alter their bar-
riers to trade. Such authority makes them
more effective bargainers; without such
authority the hands of any negotiator
would be severely tied.
Unfortunately, the President of the
United States and those who negotiate at
his direction do not now possess authori-
ties comparable to those which other
countries will bring to these bargaining
sessions. Unless these authorities are pro-
vided, we will be badly hampered in our
efforts to advance American interests and
improve our trading system.
My proposed legislation therefore calls
261
