Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 12 [294]
played and for the greater role I am sure
you will play after this conference is
concluded.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:24 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the establishment of the
President's Export Council and the President's
Interagency Committee on Export Expansion
and of the designation of the Chairman and
Vice Chairman of the Council and Chairman
of the Committee. The announcement is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 9, p. 1243).
293 Newspaper Carrier Day Message.
October 12, 1973
THE newspaper route is one of the best
training grounds for millions of young
Americans. In communities across the na-
tion countless illustrious and prominent
citizens share the common bond of having
traveled the newspaper route on the way
to their successful careers.
It is most appropriate that we set aside
a special day to honor the boys and girls
who serve as newspaper carriers across
our country, and that we give deserving
recognition to a tradition that continue so
greatly to enrich our way of life.
RICHARD NIXON
294 Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate
Gerald R. Ford To Be Vice President.
October 12, 1973
Members of the Cabinet, Members of the
Congress, members of the diplomatic
corps, all of our distinguished guests here
in the East Room, and my fellow
Americans:
I have invited you here tonight so that
I could share with all of you, not only in
this room but the millions listening on
television and radio, my announcement of
the man whose name I shall submit to the
Congress tomorrow for confirmation as
Vice President of the United States.
I shall ask the Congress tonight, and
also when I submit the name tomorrow,
to act as expeditiously as possible on this
nomination because of the great chal-
lenges we face at home and abroad today.
We live at a time in which we face
great dangers, but also a time of very
great opportunities. We can be thankful
tonight that for the first time in 12 years
the United States is at peace with every
nation in the world. We can also be thank-
ful that we are in the midst of a rising ex-
pansion of our economy in which more
Americans have better jobs at higher
wages than at any time in the history of
our country.
But also on the other side, we have to
recognize the fact that the peace that we
have worked so hard to build, not only for
ourselves but for all the world, is now
threatened because of a new outbreak of
war in the Mideast.
And also we must recognize the fact
that the prosperity that we seek is plagued
by an inflation which is a burden on the
family budget of millions of Americans.
867
