Appendix B
June
5 America's Junior Miss for 1973, Linda
Rutledge, of Leavenworth, Kans., called on
the President at the White House.
June
12 The Troika-Secretary of the Treasury
George P. Shultz, Director Roy L. Ash of
the Office of Management and Budget, and
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council of
Economic Advisers-met with the President
at the White House. Also attending the
meeting were John T. Dunlop, Director of
the Cost of Living Council, and John B.
Connally, Special Advisor to the President.
5 Robert C. Seamans, who resigned as Sec-
retary of the Air Force, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
5 The Troika-Secretary of the Treasury
George P. Shultz, Director Roy L. Ash of
the Office of Management and Budget, and
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council
of Economic Advisers-met with the Presi-
dent at the White House. Also attending
the meeting were John T. Dunlop, Direc-
tor of the Cost of Living Council; John B.
Connally, Special Advisor to the President;
and Kenneth R. Cole, Jr., Executive Direc-
tor of the Domestic Council.
7 The President met with members of the
Cabinet at the White House.
7 Members of the board of trustees of the
Council of the Americas met with the Pres-
ident at the White House to discuss the
evolution of U.S.-Latin American relations.
The council was an association of more than
200 U.S. corporations with investments in
Latin America.
11 The President met with George P. Shultz,
Secretary of the Treasury and Chairman
of the Cost of Living Council; John T.
Dunlop, Director of the COLC; Herbert
Stein, Chairman of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers; and John B. Connally,
Special Advisor to the President.
11 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House to report on his meet-
ings, which resumed June 6, with North
Vietnamese representative Le Duc Tho in
Paris, and to discuss the upcoming visit of
General Secretary Brezhnev of the Soviet
Union on June 18.
11 Members of the Labor-Management Advi-
sory Committee to the Cost of Living Coun-
cil met with the President at the White
House.
14 George Putnam, nationally syndicated ra-
dio and television commentator, called on
the President at the White House.
14 Ambassadors Yaha H. Geghman of the
Yemen Arab Republic, Yadu Nath Khanal
of Nepal, Triloki Nath Kaul of India, Rob-
ert Bernard Mbaya of Malawi, Faisal bin
Ali al-Bu-Saiid of the Sultanate of Oman,
Um Sim of the Khmer Republic, and Ab-
dullah Salah of Jordan presented their cre-
dentials to the President in ceremonies in
the Blue Room at the White House.
16 The President designated Claude Bekins,
of Seattle, Wash., as his Personal Repre-
sentative, with the rank of Ambassador, to
the biennial Kinshasa International Trade
Fair to be held June 23-July 8, 1973, at
Kinshasa, Zaire.
16 The President telephoned General Secre-
tary Brezhnev at Camp David, Md., to wel-
come him to the United States on behalf of
the American people. The General Secre-
tary was spending the weekend at Camp
David prior to the beginning of the sum-
mit meeting with President Nixon.
19 President Nixon and General Secretary
Brezhnev attended the ceremony in the
Benjamin Franklin Room at the Depart-
ment of State for the signing of agreements
on agriculture, ocean study, transportation,
and exchange and cooperation.
19 The President and the General Secretary
and members of the two Governments met
in plenary session in the Cabinet Room at
the White House.
1076
