[294] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is a time, therefore, that we need
strong and effective leadership, because
the hope of the world for peace lies with
the leadership that we have here in the
United States of America. And our ability
to build a new prosperity in this country,
a prosperity without war and without in-
flation, lies in the need for strong leader-
ship in the United States of America.
Never in our history has the world more
needed a strong America, a united Amer-
ica, with both the power and the will to
act in the spirit that made this a great
country and that has kept it a free country.
That is why at this particular time it is
vital that we turn away from the obses-
sions of the past and turn to the great
challenges of the future. This is a time for
a new beginning for America, a new be-
ginning in which we all dedicate ourselves
to the tasks of meeting the challenges we
face, seizing the opportunities for great-
ness, and meeting the dangers wherever
they are, at home or abroad.
I am confident tonight as I stand here
before leaders of both parties, I am con-
fident we shall meet those dangers and also
seize those opportunities. I am confident
that we shall do so, but we can and will
do so only if we have the support of
millions of our fellow Americans all across
this land. We can and will do so only if we
have bipartisan support in the Congress
of the United States in matters in which
no partisanship should ever enter. We can
and will do so only if we have strong effec-
tive leadership in the executive branch of
this Government.
These were the considerations that I
had in mind as I considered what man or
other individual to select as the nominee
for Vice President of the United States.
Let me tell you what the criteria were
that I had in mind. First, and above all,
the individual who serves as Vice Presi-
dent must be qualified to be President.
Second, the individual who serves as Vice
President of the United States must be
one who shares the views of the President
on the critical issues of foreign policy and
national defense, which are so important
if we are to play our great role, our
destined role to keep peace in the world.
Third, at this particular time when we
have the Executive in the hands of one
party and the Congress controlled by an-
other party, it is vital that the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States be an individual
who can work with members of both
parties in the Congress in getting approval
for those programs of the Administration
which we consider are vital for the na-
tional interest.
It was these criteria that I had in mind
when I pondered this decision last night
and early this morning in the quiet beauty
of Camp David. And the man I have se-
lected meets those three criteria.
First, he is a man who has served for 25
years in the House of Representatives with
great distinction. [Applause]
Ladies and gentlemen, please don't be
premature. There are several here who
have served 25 years in the House of
Representatives.
In addition to that service in the House,
I should point out that in that period of
time he has earned the respect of both
Democrats and Republicans. He is a man
also who has been unwavering in his sup-
port of the policies that brought peace
with honor for America in Vietnam and
in support of a policy for the strong na-
tional defense for this country, which is
so essential if we are to have peace in the
world. And above all, he is a man who,
868
