Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 11 [292]
the transcript of a news briefing on energy re-
search and development. Participants in the
news briefing were John A. Love, Director of
the Energy Policy Office; Dixy Lee Ray, Chair-
man of the Atomic Energy Commission;
H. Guyford Stever, Director of the National
Science Foundation; and William T.
McCormick, Jr., Executive Secretary of the
Energy Research and Development Advisory
Council.
292 Remarks at the Conclusion of a Conference on
Export Expansion. October 11, 1973
Members of the Cabinet and ladies and
gentlemen:
When I saw the guest list for this con-
ference, I realized that probably never
before have so many presidents been
gathered in the East Room of the White
House. And we welcome you all, what-
ever your position in business or in gov-
ernment, to this conference on export
expansion.
I realize that you have been exposed
for the past 2 or 3 hours to all the experts,
and I will not take more of your time to
go
into some of the decisions on technical
matters that we have made to work with
you toward expanding exports.
On the other hand, I thought it might
be useful at the conclusion of the confer-
ence and before I have the chance to
meet each of you personally at its end, for
me to put the whole problem of trade,
export expansion in the larger context of
foreign policy of the United States and
the desire that all of us share as Americans
to build a more peaceful world.
Now, first, I think it is well for us to
understand what the limitations of trade
are in building of our peaceful world. I
noticed in my talking points it was indi-
cated that if we have trade, that auto-
matically will lead to peace. Of course,
that isn't true at all. As a matter of fact,
if we look at World War I and World
War II, we will find that nations that
traded with each other fought each other.
Japan and the United States in World
War II are good examples, and of course,
Britain and France and Germany in
World War I and World War II are
examples of that.
So, trade between nations, no matter
how great it is, does not necessarily lead
to peace.
But having stated the negative propo-
sition, let's also understand some of the
positive points that can be made about
trade and how it can help in building a
structure of peace.
The first is that trade leads to commu-
nication between peoples, not just gov-
ernments but peoples, and communica-
tion between peoples, I very sincerely
believe-having taken some role in open-
ing communications with other nations in
the world over the past 42 years, open-
ing communications with nations with
which we had not had communications
before I believe that as we increase com-
munication between peoples at all levels,
the opportunity of discussing differences
rather than fighting about differences is
greatly increased.
And so, as American businessmen and
businesswomen travel throughout the
world, as you meet your counterparts in
business and, in the totalitarian countries,
in government, you will help to create
those channels of communication which
31-870 - 75 - 58
863
