[35] Feb. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Chairman Mills agreed today, those are
typically what we would call bipartisan
subjects-trade and energy-where we
think we can elicit a lot of bipartisan
cooperation.
There are some other areas which are
inevitably going to be partisan. We don't
discuss those.
Thank you very much.
Q. Thank you very much. We appre-
ciate it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:55 p.m. out-
side Mrs. Longworth's home.
36 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of Activities Under the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970.
February 8, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today the second an-
nual report of each executive department
and agency on their activities during fiscal
year 1972 under the Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970.
The reports describe the efforts within
the Federal Government to provide for
the uniform and equitable treatment of
persons displaced from their homes, busi-
nesses, or farm operations by Federal and
federally assisted programs and to estab-
lish fair and uniform policies for real
property acquisition under these pro-
grams.
The reports give positive evidence that
the objectives of the Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act are being achieved. While the
limited experience under the Act has not
permitted a comprehensive survey of its
effect on the general public, the principal
reporting agencies agree that most of the
people displaced by Federally related
activities were pleased with both their new
relocation sites and their benefits. The
agencies attributed this favorable reac-
tion to the increase in relocation benefits
provided under the Act. Relocation pay-
ments during FY 1972 totaled more than
$109 million for both Federal and fed-
erally assisted programs and were paid to
over 50,000 claimants.
Early in 1972 I was concerned that
legislation implementing the Act had not
yet been passed by the States, and that the
Act was not being carried out as effec-
tively as it should be. A number of actions
were taken to improve this situation:
-On February 2, 1972, the Vice Presi-
dent wrote to each Governor and to the
majority and minority leadership in each
State's legislature to encourage the en-
actment of comprehensive implementing
legislation.
-The Office of Management and
Budget, in cooperation with the Council
of State Governments and the National
Governors' Conference, solicited the as-
sistance of Federal agencies and State offi-
cials. Partly as a result, most States had
apparent statutory authority to comply
with the Act's provisions by July 1, 1972.
-The Office of Management and
Budget also issued a new and more com-
prehensive set of guidelines for agencies'
regulations on May 1, 1972.
84
