[80] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment. Our concern has also been ex-
pressed to other interested parties. And I
would only suggest that based on my ac-
tions over the past 4 years, that the North
Vietnamese should not lightly disregard
such expressions of concern when they
are made with regard to a violation. That
is all I will say about it.
Q. Mr. President, in connection with
this matter, there is a report also that not
just equipment but a new infusion of
North Vietnamese combat personnel have
been introduced into South Vietnam,
which is apart from just equipment. Can
you confirm this? Is this partly what you
are talking about?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis, the reports
that we get with regard to infiltration, as
you know, are always either too little or
too late or too much. And I am not going
to confirm that one, except to say that we
have noted the report having been made.
We, however, are primarily concerned
about the equipment, because as far as the
personnel are concerned, they could be
simply replacement personnel.
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead, you are up
in front.
Q. Sir, why have we not gone through
the ICCS [International Commission of
Control and Supervision] to complain
about this infiltration?
THE PRESIDENT. The ICCS is being
used. As you know, there are some prob-
lems there. The Canadians have ex-
pressed considerable concern about the
fact that they don't want to be on a com-
mission which is not being effectively
used, and we will continue through the
ICCS and any other body that we can
effectively appeal to, to attempt to get
action there. I can only answer in that
way at this point.
CONFIDENTIALITY OF FBI INTERVIEWS
[4] Q. Mr. President, are you con-
cerned, sir, that any of the confidential
FBI interviews that were conducted in
their Watergate investigation were in any
way compromised by Pat Gray's having
given information to John Dean or talked
with John Ehrlichman or others?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I am not con-
cerned about that. I would say that there
is no possibility whatever that any infor-
mation from the FBI, that may have been
provided in the line of their duties to a
member of the White House Staff, would
be bandied about in the press.
I would express concern on another
point. In my longtime association with
Mr. Hoover, he always was hardline in
dealing with the Members of the Congress
and with Congressional committees in
terms of what he called "raw files," and
when I first came into this office, he
showed me a raw file. I had not seen any
before. And when I saw the gossip, the
hearsay, and unsubstantiated kind of
slanderous statements-libelous, in this
case, because they were in writing, hav-
ing been made orally and then transmit-
ted into writing-I was really shocked.
Mr. Hoover, after showing me the raw
file, then gave me an appraisal by the FBI
of what could be believed and what could
not be believed. And in the case of this
particular individual-the reason I saw
the file, it involved a check of an indivi-
dual that I was nominating for a position,
and I needed to get the facts, and of
course, I always have access to those
files-what we found was that every
charge that had been made against the
individual was false.
Now, for the FBI, before a full commit-
tee of the Congress, to furnish raw files
206
