Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 6 [247]
question to me a little later, I will be glad
to respond to it.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-third news con-
ference was held at 3:05 p.m. in the East Room
at the White House on Wednesday, Septem-
ber 5, 1973. It was broadcast live on nation-
wide radio and television.
247 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on United States Participation in the United Nations.
September 6, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress the 27th annual report on United
States participation in the work of the
United Nations during calendar year
1972.
This report reflects the increasing range
of global concerns with which United
Nations agencies are dealing. It high-
lights not only the opportunities but also
the limits of operating through the United
Nations system during an era of growing
international interdependence.
In recent years, United Nations agencies
have come to deal increasingly with the
economic and technical agenda of the
world in addition to the long-standing
agenda of peace and security questions.
Indeed, as this account makes clear, these
agencies are now engaged in some manner
in virtually every governmental activity
that crosses national lines.
The United States participated actively
in these cooperative efforts to help safe-
guard peace and lessen world tensions, to
foster economic and social progress, and to
cope with a wide array of legal and tech-
nological problems.
Three themes characterized our partici-
pation during 1972:
(1) Even though we recognized the
limitations of the United Nations in solv-
ing or even abating many political dis-
putes, we supported its participation
where appropriate to reconcile such dis-
putes, to curb international terrorism and
outbreaks of violence, and to devise work-
able arrangements for peacekeeping oper-
ations. In order to serve the long-term
interest of the international community,
we worked in the General Assembly, the
Security Council, and subsidiary bodies
to have the United Nations deal even-
handedly and pragmatically with such po-
litically-charged issues as the Middle
East, decolonization, and human rights.
(2) We took the lead in seeking new
arrangements and institutions to deal with
worldwide social and technological con-
cerns. Although we encountered some re-
sistance, we pressed forward toward the
goals of assuring the safety of civil avia-
tion, protecting the environment, check-
ing the illicit flow of narcotics,
organizing relief for victims of disaster,
strengthening the law of the sea, and slow-
ing world population growth.
(3) We stressed the importance of hav-
ing the United Nations act responsibly,
equitably, and efficiently in ordering its
financial and administrative affairs so that
it could carry out its tasks more effectively.
Progress was made in holding down the
budgets of some agencies, budgeting pro-
cedures were improved, and the principle
of a lower maximum ceiling for the
743
