Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 20 [8]
spirit and the promise of America as we
enter our third century as a nation.
This past year saw far-reaching results
from our new policies for peace. By con-
tinuing to revitalize our traditional friend-
ships, and by our missions to Peking and
to Moscow, we were able to establish the
base for a new and more durable pattern
of relationships among the nations of the
world. Because of America's bold initia-
tives, 1972 will be long remembered as the
year of the greatest progress since the end
of World War II toward a lasting peace
in the world.
The peace we seek in the world is not
the flimsy peace which is merely an inter-
lude between wars, but a peace which can
endure for generations to come.
It is important that we understand both
the necessity and the limitations of Amer-
ica's role in maintaining that peace.
Unless we in America work to preserve
the peace, there will be no peace.
Unless we in America work to preserve
freedom, there will be no freedom.
But let us clearly understand the new
nature of America's role, as a result of the
new policies we have adopted over these
past 4 years.
We shall respect our treaty commit-
ments.
We shall support vigorously the princi-
ple that no country has the right to impose
its will or rule on another by force.
We shall continue, in this era of nego-
tiation, to work for the limitation of
nuclear arms and to reduce the danger of
confrontation between the great powers.
We shall do our share in defending
peace and freedom in the world. But we
shall expect others to do their share.
The time has passed when America will
make every other nation's conflict our
own, or make every other nation's future
our responsibility, or presume to tell the
people of other nations how to manage
their own affairs.
Just as we respect the right of each na-
tion to determine its own future, we also
recognize the responsibility of each na-
tion to secure its own future.
Just as America's role is indispensable
in preserving the world's peace, so is each
nation's role indispensable in preserving
its own peace.
Together with the rest of the world, let
us resolve to move forward from the
beginnings we have made. Let us continue
to bring down the walls of hostility which
have divided the world for too long, and
to build in their place bridges of under-
standing so that despite profound dif-
ferences between systems of government,
the people of the world can be friends.
Let us build a structure of peace in the
world in which the weak are as safe as the
strong, in which each respects the right
of the other to live by a different system,
in which those who would influence others
will do so by the strength of their ideas
and not by the force of their arms.
Let us accept that high responsibility
not as a burden, but gladly-gladly be-
cause the chance to build such a peace is
the noblest endeavor in which a nation
can engage; gladly also because only if
we act greatly in meeting our responsibili-
ties abroad will we remain a great nation,
and only if we remain a great nation will
we act greatly in meeting our challenges
at home.
We have the chance today to do more
than ever before in our history to make
life better in America-to ensure better
education, better health, better housing,
better transportation, a cleaner environ-
ment to restore respect for law, to make
our communities more livable-and to en-
13
