Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 8 [354]
ing bilateral agreements were signed: a
Convention with Respect to Taxes on In-
come and Property, a Civil Air Trans-
port Agreement, and an Agreement Re-
garding Fisheries in the Western Region
of the Middle Atlantic Ocean. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the Roma-
nian Chamber of Commerce and Indus-
try, at the same time, agreed to establish a
Joint U.S.-Romanian Economic Council
to consider problems of business facilita-
tion in an effort to broaden and support
economic relations between the two
countries.
The two Presidents welcomed the con-
tinuing expansion of cultural and scien-
tific relations between the two countries.
Their talks included useful and cordial
exchanges of view on international issues
including those relating to Europe, the
354
Middle East, South East Asia and cooper-
ation in the United Nations.
The two Presidents expressed satisfac-
tion with the results of their talks and
agreed to continue the bilateral dialogue
both through the usual diplomatic chan-
nels and by meetings at all levels.
President and Mrs. Ceauşescu ex-
pressed their cordial thanks to President
and Mrs. Nixon for the friendly reception
and hospitality extended to them during
the visit, regarding it as an expression of
the friendship and mutual esteem existing
between the Romanian and American
peoples.
President Ceauşescu invited President
and Mrs. Nixon for an official visit to Ro-
mania. The invitation was accepted with
pleasure. The visit will take place at a mu-
tually agreeable future date.
Statement About Financial Affairs During Tenure
as President. December 8, 1973
WITH the documents and papers re-
leased today, I am making a full dis-
closure of my financial affairs as Presi-
dent of the United States. No previous
President, to my knowledge, has ever
made so comprehensive and exhaustive a
disclosure as I am making today, with re-
gard to assets and liabilities, expenses and
income, during his tenure of office.
The purpose of my release of these
papers is to answer questions that have
arisen, to remove doubts that have been
raised, and to correct misinformation that
currently exists about what I have earned
and what I own.
To the openminded, the papers and
documents provided today, the facts they
contain and the figures they reveal, will
lay to rest such false rumors as that cam-
paign contributions were converted to my
personal use, that campaign funds were
used in the purchase of my home in San
Clemente, that I have hidden away a se-
cret $1 million investment portfolio, that
I sheltered the income on which my
daughter Tricia should have paid taxes,
and that $10 million in Federal funds was
spent on my homes in Key Biscayne and
San Clemente.
In conducting my private affairs in
public office, I have proceeded in a man-
ner I thought both prudent and in the
best interests of my family. And even
though both American law and tradi-
tion protect the privacy of the papers I am
releasing today, these documents are
being made public-because the confiden-
tiality of my private finances is far less
1005
