Richard Nixon, 1973
May 16 [154]
154 Remarks About Proposed Legislation To Establish a
Nonpartisan Commission on Federal Election
Reform. May 16, 1973
Good afternoon:
In my televised address to the Nation
2 weeks ago, I called on the leaders of
both political parties, and on citizens
everywhere, to join in working toward
new ways of ensuring that future elections
would be as nearly free of abuse as
possible.
To achieve this goal, I have today pro-
posed to the Congress the establishment
of a nonpartisan, top-level, independent
commission charged with making con-
crete proposals for reform-not only to
examine our laws and see what new ones
are needed, but also to examine the ob-
servance and enforcement of our laws,
and those campaign standards and prac-
tices not governed by law but rooted in
common usage.
This Commission would be composed
of 17 members. Eight would be chosen
by and from the Congress-two Demo-
crats and two Republicans from the
House, two Democrats and two Repub-
licans from the Senate. Seven public mem-
bers would be chosen by the President for
their experience, knowledge, and per-
spective in this field-of whom no more
than four could be from the same politi-
cal party. The chairmen of the Demo-
cratic and Republican National Commit-
tees would also serve on the panel. To
ensure further the Commission's complete
independence, its chairman and vice
chairman would be selected from among
the members of the Commission by the
Commission itself.
I trust the Congress will act swiftly to
establish the Commission. Yesterday I met
with the bipartisan leadership of the Con-
gress to discuss this matter. The proposal
I am making today incorporates sugges-
tions made by them, and my discussions
with them have given me reason to believe
that swift action in the Congress is pos-
sible. If the Congress does give this pro-
posal its quick approval, then the Com-
mission's report and recommendations
can provide the basis for reforms that
could be in place in time for the 1974
Congressional elections.
The mandate of the Commission I
have proposed will be as broad as the
Federal election process itself. Nothing
will be excluded.
It will be authorized to examine the
costs and financing of campaigns to look
into the various ways in which the costs
can be kept down and improper influence
or influence-seeking through large cam-
paign contributions can be ended. It can
consider limitations on the total amounts
candidates can spend, recognizing both
the potential for abuse and the heavy bur-
den that high campaign costs impose on
both parties. It can look into the laws
governing disclosure of campaign funds
and how they are spent and how both
those laws and their enforcement might
be improved. It can review the tax laws
as they relate to the financing of political
campaigns. It can look into the question
of possible public funding of campaigns.
Other areas for inquiry would include
the elimination from our election cam-
paigns of violence and the threat of vio-
lence, of intimidation, of frauds in the
casting and counting of ballots, of the
533
