. [141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
on the conflict. The outlook at the con-
ference table was bleak. The war was in-
hibiting our policy abroad and fostering
dissent and self-doubt at home. There
was no prospect of either an end to the
fighting or an end to our involvement.
Although the historical imperatives for
a new international approach existed in-
dependently, the war made this challenge
at once more urgent and more difficult.
More than any other factor, it threat-
ened to exhaust the American people's
willingness to sustain a reliable foreign
policy. As much as any other factor, the
way we treated it would shape overseas
attitudes and American psychology.
The context for our national security
policy was fundamentally altered. From
the mid-1940's to the late 1960's we had
moved from America's nuclear monopoly
to superiority to rough strategic balance
with the Soviet Union. This created fresh
challenges to our security and introduced
new calculations in our diplomacy. The
U.S. defense effort remained dispropor-
tionate to that of our allies who had grown
much stronger. The threats from poten-
tial enemies were more varied and less
blatant than during the more rigid bipolar
era. These changes, combined with spiral-
ing military costs and the demands of
domestic programs, were prompting reex-
amination of our defense doctrines and
posture. They were underlining the im-
portance of arms control as an element in
national security. They were also leading
some in this country to call for policies
that would seriously jeopardize our safety
and world stability.
Around the world, friends were ready
for a greater role in shaping their own
security and well-being. In the 1950's and
1960's other nations had looked to
America for ideas and resources, and they
found us a willing provider of both. Our
motives were sound, the needs were clear,
and we had many successes. By 1969,
scores of new nations, having emerged
from colonial status or dependency on
major powers, were asserting themselves
with greater assurance and autonomy.
Four years ago this growing capacity of
friends was not reflected in the balance of
contributions to security and develop-
ment. This meant that others could do
more, and the United States need do pro-
portionately less, in the provision of mate-
rial resources. More fundamentally, it
meant that increasingly the devising of
plans belonged outside of Washington.
The sweeping American presence was
likely to strain our capabilities and to stifle
the initiative of others.
There were new issues that called for
global cooperation. These challenges were
not susceptible to national solutions or
relevant to national ideologies. The vast
frontiers of space and the oceans beckoned
international exploration for humanity's
gain. Pollution of air, sea, and land could
not be contained behind national fron-
tiers. The brutal tools of assassination,
kidnapping, and hijacking could be used
to further any cause in any country. No
nation's youth was immune from the
scourge of international drug traffic. The
immediate tragedies of national disasters
and the longer-term threat of overpopula-
tion were humanitarian, not political,
concerns.
At home we faced pressures that threat-
ened to swing America from over-exten-
sion in the world to heedless withdrawal
from it. The American people had sup-
ported the burdens of global leadership
with enthusiasm and generosity into the
1960's. But after almost three decades,
our enthusiasm was waning and the results
350
