Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
come involved in the investigation, and
between the Director of the FBI.
He said that he had. He told me that
General Walters agreed that the investi-
gation should be pursued, and I told him
to go forward with a full press on the
investigation to which he has so testified.
It seemed to me that with that kind
of a directive to Mr. Gray, that that was
adequate for the purpose of carrying out
the responsibilities.
As far as the individuals were con-
cerned, I assume that the individuals that
he was referring to involved this operation
with the CIA. That is why I asked him
the Walters question. When he cleared
that up, he went forward with the in-
vestigation, and he must have thought
it was a very good investigation because
when I sent his name down to the Senate
for confirmation the next year, I asked
him about his investigation. He said he
was very proud of it. He said it was the
most thorough investigation that had ever
taken place since the assassination of Presi-
dent Kennedy, that he could defend it
with enthusiasm, and that under the cir-
cumstances, therefore, he had carried out
the directive that I had given him on
July 6.
So, there was no question about Mr.
Gray having direct orders from the Presi-
dent to carry out an investigation that
was thorough.
ments against three of your top aides,
Messrs. Ehrlichman, Haldeman, and
Dean. You accepted their resignations on
April 30, calling Mr. Haldeman and Mr.
Ehrlichman two of the finest public serv-
ants you had known. After that, you per-
mitted Mr. Haldeman, after he had left
the White House, to hear confidential
tapes of conversations you had had in your
office with Mr. Dean. My question is, why
did you permit a man who you knew might
be indicted to hear those tapes which you
now will not permit the American public
or the Federal prosecutors handling the
case to listen to?
THE PRESIDENT. The only tape that
has been referred to, that Mr. Haldeman
has listened to, he listened to at my re-
quest, and he listened to that tape that
was the one on September 15, Mr. Jar-
riel-because he had been present and
was there. I asked him to listen to it in
order to be sure that as far as any alle-
gations that had been made by Mr. Dean
with regard to that conversation is con-
cerned, I wanted to be sure that we were
absolutely correct in our response. That is
all he listened to. He did not listen to any
tapes in which only Mr. Dean and I par-
ticipated. He listened only to the tape on
September 15-this is after he left office-
in which he had participated in the
conversation throughout.
ACCESS TO PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[4] Mr. Jarriel [Tom Jarriel, ABC
News].
Q. Mr. President, Assistant Attorney
General Henry Petersen has testified that
on April 15 of this year he met with you
and warned you at that time there might
be enough evidence to warrant indict-
PRINCIPLE OF CONFIDENTIALITY
[5] Q. Mr. President, one of the
lingering doubts about your denial of any
involvement is concerning your failure to
make the tapes available either to the
Senate committee or the Special Prose-
cutor. You have made it perfectly clear
you don't intend to release those tapes.
THE PRESIDENT. Perfectly clear?
713
