[175] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
175 Remarks at the Unveiling of the Cornerstone of the
Everett McKinley Dirksen Congressional Leadership
Research Center, Pekin, Illinois.
Mrs. Dirksen, Governor Walker, my col-
leagues from the Senate and the House of
Representatives of the United States, and
all of our very distinguished guests on this
occasion:
Before Senator Dirksen died, I often
talked to him about the foreign policy
of the United States, and I told him that
sometime during my term of office I
hoped that we would be able to open a
new relationship with the People's Re-
public of China and that I would be able
to visit Peking. And the Senator, with
that wonderful sense of humor of his, said,
"Well, you know, Dick, I am sure Peking,
China, is a great place, but you have
really never seen anything until you have
seen Pekin, Illinois."
After your very warm welcome today-
and we give our distinguished chaplain
the credit for the fact that the rain just
stopped—I can say that I am very happy
that while I was unable to visit Pekin,
Illinois, while Senator Dirksen lived, that
finally I have been able to come here. We
are grateful for your welcome, and I hope
sometime we can come back when this
center is finished.
Some of you may recall the ceremony
in the Rotunda of the Capitol when I
paid the respects of the Nation to Senator
Dirksen in a eulogy,' and in those remarks
I recalled the remarks of Daniel Webster
in which he said, "Our great men are the
common property of the country." And
the passage of time has shown us how very
true this is. For the memory of Everett
'See 1969 volume, Item 359.
June 15, 1973
Dirksen continues to live in every corner
of America today. In death, as in life, he
belongs to all of us.
I said then that it would be difficult to
think of Washington without him. Well,
in 4 years we have learned that he has not
really left us. His great voice continues to
echo through the halls of American gov-
ernment. What he did and said in nearly
40 years of public service continues to
shape the future of America.
In recent years, our concern for the po-
litical past has led to creation of great
Presidential libraries, as you know, and
three of them are located here in the
Middle West: the Hoover Library in
Iowa, the Truman Library in Missouri,
and the Eisenhower Library in Kansas. It
is very fitting, and the people of Pekin
should be very proud, that a new research
center now is to be dedicated here in
America's heartland for the study of
Congressional history, and that it is to be
named for one of the most beloved and
influential Congressional leaders of this
century.
This center will house Congressional
papers going back to 1932, the year Ever-
ett Dirksen first entered Congress, and
here the records of old controversies will
become the raw materials for new dis-
coveries.
Too often, those of us who studied the
history of this country have viewed Amer-
ica's history through the single lens of the
Presidency, and we see our past solely as a
succession of Presidential administrations.
As one who served on both ends of Penn-
sylvania Avenue-as a Member of both
588
