Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 8 [325]
Now, these three women have several
things in common: They were all born in
Nevada; they are all intelligent; they are
all women who have come up from rather
humble beginnings to very high places in
their various lives that they have lived.
And they share one other quality which I
would like to address just a bit tonight,
and that is the quality of character. They
have great character.
That is what Nevada is all about. It is a
State that produces men and women of
character. I have been trying to think
how I could describe that character best.
I remember, when I was considering
Helen Bentley for the position as Chair-
man of the Maritime Commission, a Sena-
tor who was trying to get me to appoint
somebody else came to the office and said,
"Mr. President, you can't appoint Helen
Bentley to this job. You know, she swears
like a man." [Laughter]
Well, you know, as all of our honored
Senators here know, I never like to put a
Senator down, but in this case I did. I
said, "Senator, you are absolutely wrong.
She swears like a lady, and that is much
more powerful.”
I think, too, of the fact that through
many years that Pat Nixon, who was born
in Ely, Nevada, and I have shared many
great moments, and some difficult mo-
ments. And I, of course, remember the
great moments, but even more, I remem-
ber the more difficult moments, because
that is the test of an individual, and the
great test of Nevada's First Ladies, one
of whom I have the privilege to know
extremely well, is that when the going is
toughest, they are at their very best.
I remember, for example-to show how
much the Nation thinks of her that after
I had named Jerry Ford as the Vice Presi-
dent-designate of the United States of
America, I received a lot of letters and
other correspondence indicating their ap-
proval of it, but one man wrote me a letter
with a clipping in it about the inaugura-
tion in Argentina, where President Perón
has named his wife as Vice President. He
said, "Mr. President, why didn't you think
of that?"
And I can only say that I remember
many moments, but one in particular that
I would describe for you that perhaps
never has been in the history books to
date: 1958, Caracas, when great mobs
of rather violent rioters attacked the cars
of the Vice President and those in the
caravan as we moved through the city of
Caracas.
The Vice Presidential car was badly
bashed in, they began to tip it over, and
Pat Nixon was in the car immediately
behind. Don Hughes, then a major, now
a general, of the Air Force was sitting by
her, and he said that what impressed him
was that as she looked at that mob attack-
ing her husband's car and also attacking
her car, that she sat there cool, calm, just
smiling at them. And he said, "She was
the bravest woman I ever saw in my life.”
And I know that I have talked to many
world leaders, and I have found that
whenever you find a strong world leader,
you find usually by his side a very strong
woman. I have been fortunate in that
respect.
Perhaps I can describe her spirit by a
reference to another woman who has
played a very major role in my life, my
mother. I remember the last conversation
I ever had with her. It was in the mid-
sixties. It had not been particularly a good
period for me. I had just lost for Presi-
dent, and then I lost for Governor of Cali-
31-870 O 75-52
927
