Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Nairobi this September, and we will work
closely with others to attain that objective.
FOREIGN TRADE
In determining their trade policies, gov-
ernments must balance the desires of all
their people. Some workers, farmers, and
businessmen want greater access to foreign
markets; others want to limit imports;
and consumers want the widest variety of
goods at the lowest possible prices.
Recent problems in the international
trading system reflect in part the high
priority some countries place on promot-
ing certain exports and protecting favored
producers. Over-emphasis by some coun-
tries on promoting certain exports has
forced their own consumers to pay more
for these products by reducing their avail-
ability at home and has sometimes led to
disruptive increases in imports in the
markets of other nations. Over-emphasis
by countries on protection has penalized
their domestic consumers and limited ex-
ports of other nations.
When such excesses by one nation occur,
adversely affected groups in other coun-
tries demand retaliation or protection.
These demands are particularly hard for
governments to deal with in the present
climate. International rules adopted in the
1940's to prevent or solve these and other
problems have often been ignored. In some
cases they do not meet contemporary
needs. Nations on occasion have felt they
had no choice but to accommodate par-
ticular domestic interests in ways that not
only further complicate the international
problem but also damage other domestic
interests. The result has been an erosion
of confidence in the trading system, and
economic and political friction.
The U.S. Response. Balancing do-
mestic and foreign interests in this envi-
ronment has been one of the most difficult
problems faced by the United States.
Early in 1972 the United States secured
agreement from Japan to reduce trade
barriers on a variety of industrial and
farm products. At our meeting in Hono-
lulu later that year and in subsequent talks
as well, Japan agreed to take additional
steps to boost imports of American prod-
ucts and to liberalize its internal distri-
bution system. Although these actions
have benefited American exporters, they
have not been adequate and we are seek-
ing further progress in these areas. In talks
with our trading partners and in the
forum provided under the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade we are pressing
for solutions to other problems including
compensation for the impairment of our
trade interests as a result of enlargement
of the European Community and its new
arrangements with other European
countries.
Special problems caused by rapidly ris-
ing steel and textile imports into the
United States have been eased by export
restraint agreements reached with major
foreign producers. Enforcement of anti-
dumping and countervailing duty laws,
which protect American workers and in-
dustry from injury due to unfair import
competition, has improved markedly.
We have also taken steps to cut infla-
tion and to benefit American consumers.
We suspended import quotas on meats and
relaxed them on certain dairy products.
The entire oil import program was re-
cently restructured to help ensure ade-
quate supplies for the domestic market.
These measures also have helped foreign
exporters. Moreover, we have eliminated
export subsidies on farm products, con-
tributing to a sounder balance between
471
