Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [63]
so that we almost achieved our goal of
3 percent. We got to 3.4.
a lit-
Now, what we are concerned about is to
see that in the negotiations in the year
1973, those negotiations are undertaken
with enough flexibility-some will go
tle higher, some will go a little lower-but
with enough flexibility so that we don't
have a wage-price push which would
destroy the goal that everybody unani-
mously agrees we should try to achieve of
2.5 at the end of the year at the retail
level. I am sure that confuses you.
THE AMERICAN DOLLAR
[13] Q. Mr. President, what kind of
trouble is the American dollar in in
Europe, in your judgment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the American
dollar, I think, is being attacked by inter-
national speculators. I know that when I
use that term my sophisticates in the
Treasury Department shudder because
they believe these great forces are not de-
termined by speculation and the rest. But
as I look at the American economy, as I
look at the American rate of inflation, I
would say that the dollar is a good bet in
the world markets today.
The United States has the lowest rate
of inflation of any major industrial coun-
try. The United States has certainly the
strongest economy of the major industrial
countries. The United States also has a
program, which we believe is going to
work, for continuing to control inflation.
We have a very tight budget, or I should
say a responsible budget. Let me point
out, it is not a budget which is cut; it is
a budget, however, which does not go up
as much as some would want it to go, and
therefore, one that will continue to cool
the inflationary fires. And, of course, under
these circumstances, we believe that the
dollar is a sound currency and that this
international attack upon it by people who
make great sums of money by speculat-
ing-one time they make a run on the
mark, and the next time it is on the yen,
and now it is on the dollar-we will sur-
vive it,
Let me say there will not be another
devaluation. I would say, second, we are
going to continue our program of fiscal
responsibility so that the dollar will be
sound at home and, we trust as well,
abroad. And we also are going to con-
tinue our efforts to get the other major
countries to participate more with us in
the goal that we believe we should all
achieve, which we set out at the time of
the Smithsonian and the other agree-
ments, and that is of getting an interna-
tional monetary system which is flexible
enough to take care of these, what I be-
lieve are, temporary attacks on one cur-
rency or another.
Q. Can we do anything to bring these
speculators under control?
THE PRESIDENT. We cannot because,
I would say, for the most part they are
operating in the international area, and
all that we can do is to keep our dollar as
sound as we can at home, to keep our
economy as sound as we can, to be as
responsible as we can so that the run on
the dollar does not mean a weakness of
the American economy or of the dollar, in
fact, that we spend here at home.
RENT CONTROLS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, are you pos-
sibly giving any thought to reviving the
Rent Control Board?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we are not. Rent
controls have an enormous public appeal,
31-870 - 75 14
-
159
