[248] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
gradual increase in the wage rate, so that
the economy can more easily absorb the
impact.
HURTING THE DISADVANTAGED
Changes in the minimum wage law as
required by H.R. 7935 would also hurt
those who need help most. The ones who
would be the first to lose their jobs be-
cause of a sharp increase in the minimum
wage rate would frequently be those who
traditionally have had the most trouble
in finding new employment-the young,
members of racial and ethnic minority
groups, the elderly, and women who need
work to support their families.
Three groups would be especially hard
hit by special provisions in this bill:
Youth: One major reason for low earn-
ings among the young is that their em-
ployment has a considerable element of
on-the-job training. Low earnings can be
accepted during the training period in
expectation of substantially higher earn-
ings after the training is completed. That
is why the Administration has urged the
Congress to establish a modest short-term
differential in minimum wages for teen-
agers, coupled with protections against
using teenagers to substitute for adults in
jobs. H.R. 7935, however, includes no
meaningful youth differential of this kind.
It does provide marginal improvement in
the special wage for students working
part-time, but these are the young people
whose continuing education is improving
their employability anyway: the bill
makes no provision at all for the millions
of nonstudent teenagers who need jobs
most.
Unemployment rates for the young are
already far too high, recently averaging
three to four times the overall national
unemployment rate. H.R. 7935 would
only drive that rate higher, especially for
young people from minority groups or dis-
advantaged backgrounds. It thus would
cut their current income, delay or even
prevent their start toward economic im-
provement, and create greater demorali-
zation for the age group which should be
most enthusiastically involved in Ameri-
ca's world of work.
Domestic household workers: H.R.
7935 would extend minimum wage cover-
age to domestic household workers for the
first time. This would be a backward step.
H.R. 7935 abruptly requires that they be
paid the same wages as workers who have
been covered for several years. The likely
effect would be a substantial decrease in
the employment and hours of work of
current household workers. This view is
generally supported by several recent eco-
nomic studies.
Employees in small retail and service
establishments: By extending coverage to
these workers for the first time, H.R. 7935
takes aim at the very businesses least able
to absorb sharp, sudden payroll increases.
Under the burden of this well-intended
but impractical requirement, thousands of
such establishments would be forced to
curtail their growth, lay off employees, or
simply close their doors altogether A
"paper" entitlement to a higher minimum
wage would be cold comfort indeed to
workers whose jobs were eliminated in this
squeeze.
OTHER PROBLEMS
H.R. 7935 would also bring almost all
government employees under the Fair
Labor Standards Act. For Federal em-
ployees, such coverage is unnecessary-
because the wage rates of this entire group
already meet the minimum and undesir
748
