[27] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
which has rested on your shoulders and, indeed,
on the shoulders of your predecessors, for this
agonizing experience which the United States
has passed through.
So we are indeed grateful to you and your
colleagues, and perhaps to Henry Kissinger in
particular among them, for what you have
achieved in these last and strenuous weeks of
negotiations, and I would like to thank you
and your colleagues for what you have done.
But now we enter onto a new era as you
have described in which the enlarged Com-
munity is created, and now we have a great
future before us in which we are all thinking
of the relationship between the enlarged Com-
munity, between the new unity in Europe and
the United States.
And earlier today I paid tribute to the sup-
port which successive American administrations
have given to the ideal of European unity, and
we must all be grateful to you for that.
After World War II, quite apart from the
immense contribution you had paid to victory,
you then began the reconstruction of Europe,
and all Europe recognizes that it is to the help
of the United States, to Marshall aid, to all
that flows from it, the present prosperity of
Europe is due.
And so history will always say that the re-
covery of Europe owed so much to the United
States, and from that sprang the ideal of Euro-
pean unity and successive Presidents have sup-
ported it, knowing that it might lead to a
certain price to be paid, perhaps in economic
matters, that as we developed politically and
in foreign affairs there might be differences of
views between us. But you and we always had
the confidence that these were matters which
could be sorted out between us because we had
the same ideals, because we were working to
the same ends, and that I believe profoundly
to be true.
And so now, together, we embark on a new
path, a new Europe, a new United States, freed
from the burden of war in Southeast Asia, to
work towards a more prosperous and a more
peaceful world.
It is not going to be all that easy, because
we are dealing with a world in which patterns.
have become fixed and on which history has
made its imprint.
You, Mr. President, I am told, are an admirer
of Disraeli. You have been talking to me about
Robert Blake's book, a very distinguished work,
which you recently have been reading, and
there comes to my mind the recollection at the
end of that book. He tells the story of Disraeli
in the very last days of his life, some 6 weeks
before he died, when a very young enthusiastic
man, who was one of the earliest forebearers
of socialist idealism, wrote to the great man
saying could he perhaps have an interview. And
much to his surprise, he got a reply saying,
"Yes," he could.
So he went down to the country to see
him in his house, and he was introduced,
and there was the great man sitting in his
chair with drooping eyelids, very aged, and
he didn't rise, but he just beckoned to the
young man to sit down. And he said, "Tell me
what you have to say."
And so the young man set off in full
flower, with great enthusiasm, and he told
how he was going to build the new England,
what it was going to be like, how quickly
it could be done, overnight there would be
this transformation.
Disraeli had failed to achieve it, but the
young man was going to do it, with all his
philosophy and his ideals and his practical
experience.
And after an hour and a half, the young
man stopped, and Disraeli then lifted one
eyelid and looked at him, and he said, "Young
man, you will find that England is a very dif-
ficult country to move."
In this, for the politician, there is a lesson
that every country, when you start on a
process of reform and change, is a very diffi-
cult country to move, and Disraeli, with all
that he achieved, knew as well as anybody
just how difficult it is.
But after all, what is the purpose of poli-
tics except to change for the better. And so,
together in the Atlantic partnership we have
embarked on this path We know we are in a
process of change. We are living in a world
in which, perhaps, change has been greater and
faster than ever before, and nobody, Mr. Presi-
dent, has appreciated it more than you the
change in the relationship with the Soviet
Union, the development of China and all that
means for the world, the position of Japan
as she emerges a predominant economic power,
70
