[181] June 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
this audience, or to those who may be
listening on television or radio, that one
meeting or two meetings at the summit
brings instant peace, instant relaxation of
tensions, and instant reduction or limita-
tion of arms.
But I do know this: that these two sum-
mit meetings have brought us closer to-
gether, have brought greater understand-
ing of our differences and greater deter-
mination to reduce those differences, and
certainly, at the very least, to solve those
differences without confrontation. And
this, indeed, is an historic change in the
relations between our two countries which
the General Secretary and I are dedicated
to continue.
And now, ladies and gentlemen here in
the Soviet Embassy, it is my privilege to
return the toast that the General Secretary
has given.
On this occasion, I, in addition to ask-
ing you to drink to his health-he ob-
viously being our host, being the ranking
guest-I think it is appropriate also to
drink to the health of those who have
been in this city so many years, as the
Ambassador, Ambassador Dobrynin, and
Mrs. Dobrynin, to Foreign Minister
Gromyko, who has also been in our city
and knows our country so well, and so
many others of our Soviet guests. You
have made us feel, tonight, most welcome.
And we can only say that as we drink to
your health, we drink to it not simply in
the casual way that one raises a glass of
champagne, be it California or New York
or French or, in this case, Russian cham-
pagne, but we drink to your health, having
in mind what you have said and what I
have tried to reaffirm: the desire of the
two strongest nations in the world,
through their top leaders, to work to-
gether for peace rather than for continued
confrontation which could lead to
destruction.
This is a goal worthy of great nations
and it is a goal that we are proud, Mr.
General Secretary, to work with you so
that we can achieve it for the benefit of
the Soviet people, of the American people,
and all of the people of this world.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, since we
can't repeat all those words in raising our
glasses, may I suggest, to Mr. Brehnev
and to Mrs. Brezhnev, who could not be
here but who talked on the telephone
with him today, to their children, and
all of our children.
Mr. Brezhnev.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
11 p.m. in the Golden Hall of the Soviet Em-
bassy in response to a toast proposed by the
General Secretary.
General Secretary Brezhnev spoke in Russian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Esteemed Mr. President, Esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen, comrades:
Tonight it is my very pleasant duty to wel-
come you, Mr. President, and your wife, and
members of the U.S. Government, and other
distinguished American guests here at the Soviet
Embassy in Washington.
On behalf of my comrades and myself, I
would like first of all to cordially thank you
personally, Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon, and
other members of your family, for the warmth
and consideration with which you have been
surrounding us from the very start of our visit
to your country.
At the same time, I would like to say that
we are grateful to all Americans who have
shown their friendly feelings toward us and
taken a lively interest in our visit and our
negotiations. In all this, we see a confirmation
of the respect harbored by the people of the
United States toward Soviet people and evi-
dence of the mutual desire of our two peoples
to live together in peace and friendship.
An awareness of our high duty and re-
sponsibility is permeating the entire course of
604
