[11] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
sorrow, do hereby direct that the flag of
the United States be displayed at half-
staff at the White House and on all build-
ings, grounds, and Naval vessels of the
United States for a period of thirty days
from the day of his death. I also direct
that for the same length of time the
representatives of the United States in for-
eign countries shall make similar arrange-
ments for the display of the flag at
half-staff over their Embassies, Legations,
and other facilities abroad, including all
military facilities and stations.
I hereby order that suitable honors be
rendered by units of the Armed Forces
under orders of the Secretary of Defense
on the day of the funeral.
I do further appoint Thursday, Janu-
ary 25, 1973 to be a National Day of
Mourning throughout the United States.
I recommend that the people assemble on
that day in their respective places of wor-
ship, there to pay homage to the memory
of President Johnson. I invite the people
of the world who share our grief to join
us in this solemn observance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-third day
of January in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-three and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the one hundred ninety-seventh.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11700, providing for the clos-
ing of Government departments and agencies
on Thursday, January 25, 1973, as a mark of
respect for President Johnson.
12 Address to the Nation Announcing Conclusion of an
Agreement on Ending the War and Restoring
January 23, 1973
Peace in Vietnam.
Good evening:
I have asked for this radio and tele-
vision time tonight for the purpose of an-
nouncing that we today have concluded
an agreement to end the war and bring
peace with honor in Vietnam and in
Southeast Asia.
The following statement is being issued
at this moment in Washington and
Hanoi:
At 12:30 Paris time today, January 23,
1973, the Agreement on Ending the War
and Restoring Peace in Vietnam was
initialed by Dr. Henry Kissinger on be-
half of the United States, and Special
Adviser Le Duc Tho on behalf of the
Democratic Republic of Vietnam.
The agreement will be formally signed
by the parties participating in the Paris
Conference on Vietnam on January 27,
1973, at the International Conference
Center in Paris.
The cease-fire will take effect at 2400
Greenwich Mean Time, January 27, 1973.
The United States and the Democratic
Republic of Vietnam express the hope
that this agreement will insure stable
peace in Vietnam and contribute to the
preservation of lasting peace in Indo-
china and Southeast Asia.
That concludes the formal statement.
Throughout the years of negotiations,
we have insisted on peace with honor. In
my addresses to the Nation from this room
of January 25 and May 8 [1972], I set
forth the goals that we considered essen-
tial for peace with honor.
In the settlement that has now been
18
