[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world. We want to see the new Peo-
ple's Republic of Bangladesh flourish as a
non-aligned and economically viable
democratic state. We want to join with
India in a mature relationship founded
on equality, reciprocity, and mutual in-
terests, reflecting India's stature as a great
free nation. We want to see all the small
countries of South Asia live in stability and
secure in their independence.
THE STRUCTURE OF PEACE IN SOUTH ASIA
In 1971 the breakdown of peace in
South Asia not only brought war and suf-
fering to the millions of people directly af-
fected. It raised concern about stability
for the whole region from the Persian Gulf
to Southeast Asia. It involved the great
powers in a potentially dangerous con-
frontation whose significance went far
beyond the immediate South Asian
conflict.
Today we can hope that the subcon-
tinent has found a new foundation for
stability.
This will depend first and foremost on
the normalization of relations between
India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. This
means, to begin with, resolving the issues
left by the events of 1971: repatriation of
prisoners of war and other personnel de-
tained; recognition and establishment of
diplomatic relations; and resumption of
trade and equitable division of assets and
liabilities between Pakistan and Bangla-
desh. Beyond this, it means consolidating
a new stability on the subcontinent: an
end to the arms race; an end to terri-
torial disputes; expanded economic co-
operation; and creation of a climate of
security and, ultimately, reconciliation.
The primary responsibility for this proc-
ess rests necessarily on the region's na-
tions. The Simla Conference in June-July
1972 between President Bhutto and
Prime Minister Gandhi, which produced
agreement on the outline of a settlement
between Pakistan and India, was a
dramatic and promising step. Progress
since then has been slow, as the relation-
ship between India and Pakistan has be-
come intertwined with the resolution of
the unsettled issues between Pakistan and
Bangladesh. President Bhutto has been
understandably insistent on the return of
the 90,000 Pakistani prisoners of war de-
tained in India. India has been unwilling
to release them without Bangladesh's con-
currence. Prime Minister Mujib, until re-
cently, insisted that Pakistani recognition
of Bangladesh must precede any other
steps toward reconciliation, and he has
sought the return of Bengalees detained in
Pakistan. Just this past month, however,
new efforts have been made to break the
impasse.
The United States, from its Vietnam
experience, has a natural sympathy for
Pakistan's desire for the return of its pris-
oners of war, and for the repatriation of
all detainees. It is a basic humanitarian
concern and also a way of liquidating one
of the vestiges of the war and beginning a
process of reconciliation. At the same
time, recognition of Bangladesh as a new
reality in the subcontinent is a key step
toward stabilization of relations in South
Asia.
As a general matter, reconciliation on
the subcontinent is not a process the
United States can directly affect, except
to give encouragement and support to
constructive actions. We have sought, on
the other hand, through our bilateral rela-
tions with the nations of the area, to ad-
dress the fundamental problems of re-
covery and stability.
454
