[323] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the trust that they placed in me when they
elected me as President of the United
States in the past, and I pledge to you to-
night that I shall always do everything
that I can to be worthy of that trust in
the future.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. The ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television. An advance text of his address
was released on the same day.
The White House also released a fact sheet
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
contents of the President's address by John A.
Love, Director of the Energy Policy Office.
Prior to his address, the President met sepa-
rately during the day with members of the bi-
partisan Congressional leadership; a group of
Governors, mayors, and county officials; and
a group of business leaders and representatives
of labor and consumer groups.
On November 7 and 8, 1973, the President
sent telegrams to Governors, mayors, and
county officials, recommending specific actions
to meet the energy shortages.
On November 14, the White House an-
nounced that the President had directed Direc-
tor Love to form a Special Action Group to
report to the President on steps being taken to
achieve the conservation of energy for which
the President had asked and to coordinate the
energy activities of the Administration with
the initial, primary emphasis on short-term
problems and solutions.
324 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Emergency
November 8, 1973
Energy Legislation.
To the Congress of the United States:
As America has grown and prospered
in recent years, our demands for energy
have begun to outstrip available supplies.
Along with other major industrialized na-
tions, we are now faced with the prospect
of shortages for several years to come.
Two years ago, in the first energy mes-
sage ever sent to the Congress by a Presi-
dent of the United States, I called atten-
tion to the looming energy problem. Since
that time, I have repeatedly warned that
the problem might become a full-blown
crisis, and seeking to minimize shortages,
I have taken a number of administrative
steps to increase supplies and reduce con-
sumption. Earlier this year, I also sent
more than a half dozen urgent legislative
proposals to the Congress. While none of
these has yet been enacted, I am hopeful
at least several of the measures will be
ready for my signature before year's end.
Unfortunately, the energy crisis that
once seemed a distant threat to many
people is now closing upon us quickly. We
had expected moderate shortages of
energy this winter, but four weeks ago,
when war broke out in the Middle East,
most of our traditional suppliers in that
area cut off their shipments of oil to the
United States. Their action has now
sharply changed our expectations for the
coming months.
Largely because of the war, we must
face up to the stark fact that we are head-
ing toward the most acute shortages of
energy since the Second World War. Of
the 17 million barrels of oil a day that we
would ordinarily consume this winter,
more than two million barrels a day will
no longer be available to us. Instead of a
shortage of approximately 2-3 percent
that we had anticipated this winter, we
now expect that our supply of petroleum
922
