[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
realistic strategy in light of the nu-
clear balance of the 1970's while
meeting our mutual defense commit-
ments with an equitable sharing of
the burdens;
-in building a common framework
for diplomacy to deal with funda-
mental security issues such as
mutual and balanced force reduc-
tions in the new international en-
vironment, reconciling the require-
ments of unity with those of national
interest.
In the past four years we have pro-
gressed toward these goals. The advances
have been more pronounced in diplo-
macy and defense because habits of con-
sultation were long-standing in these areas
and common interests were easier to de-
fine. Fundamental problems persist in eco-
nomic relations with the European Com-
munity. Though Europeans have begun
to pursue a collective economic policy,
their lack of a comparable degree of po-
litical unity handicaps the resolution of
economic issues with the United States.
ATLANTIC PARTNERSHIP AND
EUROPEAN UNITY
Throughout the postwar period, the
United States has supported the concept
of a unified Western Europe. We recog-
nized that such a Europe might be more
difficult to deal with, but we foresaw
manifold advantages. Unity would re-
place the devastating nationalist rivalries
of the past. It would strengthen Europe's
economic recovery and expand Europe's
potential contributions to the free world.
We believed that ultimately a highly co-
hesive Western Europe would relieve the
United States of many burdens. We ex-
pected that unity would not be limited
to economic integration, but would in-
clude a significant political dimension.
We assumed, perhaps too uncritically,
that our basic interests would be assured
by our long history of cooperation, by ou
common cultures and our political
similarities.
The Economic Dimension. The ad-
vance toward the goal we supported for
so long has, in fact, created a new di-
mension in European-American relations.
Mutual prosperity developed on the prin-
ciple of relatively free trade. As the Euro-
pean Community progressed, however, it
designed policies to protect its own spe-
cial interests. Moreover, its growing eco-
nomic weight stimulated other states to
protect their access to that thriving mar-
ket of more than 250 million persons. The
prospect of relatively closed trading sys-
tems within Europe, notably in agricul-
ture, and in preferential arrangements
with third countries, was proceeding as
the United States was suffering an in-
creasingly unfavorable balance of
payments.
In the area of monetary policy, the
European Community has to a large de-
gree been preoccupied with the search
for a reasonable path toward internal
monetary unity. At the same time, the
growing strengths of some of its national
economies and relative weakness of
others--have both impeded that progress
and limited the will and ability of Europe
to deal effectively and expeditiously with
fundamental reform of the international
monetary system.
The Europeans have thus been pursu-
ing economic regionalism; but they want
to preserve American protection in de-
fense and an undiminished American po-
litical commitment. This raises a funda-
mental question: can the principle of
404
