[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
determination, without termination of the
special Federal relationship with recog-
nized Indian tribes.
Just as it is essential to put more
decision-making in the hands of State
and local governments, I continue to be-
lieve that Indian tribal governments
should assume greater responsibility for
programs of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
and the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare which operate on their
reservations. As I first proposed in 1970,
I recommend that the Congress enact the
necessary legislation to facilitate this
take-over of responsibility. Also, I recom-
mend that the 1953 termination resolu-
tion be repealed. Meanwhile the new
statutory provisions for Indian tribal gov-
ernments under General Revenue Shar-
ing will assist responsible tribal govern-
ments in allocating extra resources with
greater flexibility.
I shall also propose new legislation to
foster local Indian self-determination by
developing an Interior Department pro-
gram of bloc grants to Federally recog-
nized tribes as a replacement for a number
of existing economic and resource develop-
ment programs. The primary purpose of
these grants would be to provide tribal
governments with funds which they could
use at their own discretion to promote de-
velopment of their reservations.
Indian tribal organizations and Indians
seeking to enter business need easier access
to loan and credit opportunities; I pro-
posed in 1970 and will again propose leg-
islation to accomplish this objective.
Because Indian rights to natural re-
sources need better protection, I am again
urging the Congress to create an Indian
Trust Counsel Authority to guarantee that
protection.
In the two and one-half years that In-
dians have been waiting for the Congress
to enact the major legislation I have pro-
posed, we have moved ahead administra-
tively whenever possible. We have restored
21,000 acres of wrongfully acquired Gov-
ernment land to the Yakima Tribe. We
have filed a precedent-setting suit in the
Supreme Court to protect Indian water
rights in Pyramid Lake. My fiscal year
1974 budget proposes total Federal outlays
of $1.45 billion for Indian affairs, an in-
crease of more than 15 percent over 1973-
To accelerate organizational reform, I
have directed the Secretary of the Interior
to transfer day to day operational activi-
ties of the Bureau of Indian Affairs out of
Washington to its field offices. And I am
again asking the Congress to create a new
Assistant Secretary position within the In-
terior Department to deal with Indian
matters.
VETERANS
With the coming of peace, the Nation's
inestimable debt to our veterans and their
dependents will continue to command a
high priority among the human resource
efforts of this Administration.
During the past four years, I have twice
signed legislation increasing the allow-
ances for educational assistance to vet-
erans. Nearly 2 million veterans are now
in some form of training under the GI Bill
for Vietnam-era veterans. Pension pay-
ments to veterans or their survivors who
need income support have also been raised
twice and the test of need has been greatly
improved, including a more equitable for-
mula for adjusting the VA pension rate
when other sources of income, such as
Social Security, are increased. The VA
pension program now directly benefits
over 2 million individuals.
Compensation payments for service-
144
