[17] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
17 Message to the Senate Transmitting Notes to the United
States-Ethiopian Treaty of Amity and Economic
Relations. January 26,
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a note of September 16,
1965 from the Government of Ethiopia
and a reply note of October 20, 1972 from
the Government of the United States
which would terminate notes exchanged
on September 7, 1951 concerning the ad-
ministration of justice and constituting an
integral part of the treaty of amity and
economic relations between the United
States and Ethiopia.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the proposed
termination.
The notes which it is proposed be termi-
nated set forth special provisions regard-
1973
ing the trial of cases involving American
citizens and regarding the imprisonment
of American citizens. The termination of
the notes would be in conformity with this
Government's policy of basing interna-
tional agreements in general on the prin-
ciples of equality and reciprocity.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the notes
submitted herewith and give its advice
and consent to termination of the notes
exchanged on September 7, 1951.
The White House,
January 26, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the notes and accompanying
papers are printed in Senate Executive B (93d
Cong., 1st sess.).
18 Proclamation 4181, National Moment of Prayer and
Thanksgiving. January 26,
By the President of the United States of
America a Proclamation
A long and trying ordeal for America
has ended. Our Nation has achieved its
goal of peace with honor in Vietnam.
As a people with a deep and abiding
faith, we know that no great work can be
accomplished without the aid and inspira-
tion of Almighty God. No time could be
more fitting for grateful prayer and medi-
tation than the opening moment of the
peace we have achieved with His help.
Now, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of America,
1973
as requested by the Congress, do hereby
designate 7:00 p.m., e.s.t., January 27,
1973 as a National Moment of Prayer and
Thanksgiving, and the 24-hour period be-
ginning then as a National Day of Prayer
and Thanksgiving.
I urge all men and women of goodwill
to join the prayerful hope that this mo-
ment marks not only the end of the war
in Vietnam, but the beginning of a new
era of world peace and understanding for
all mankind. I authorize the flying of the
American flag at the appointed hour, and
I call on all the people of the United
28
