[133] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
felt that the appearance of honesty and integrity
is every bit as important to such a position as
the fact of one's honesty and integrity.
Unfortunately, such appearances are not al-
ways governed by facts. Realistically, they can
be affected by repeated rumor, unfounded
charges or implications and whatever else the
media carries. For instance, this week totally
unfounded stories appeared in the Los Angeles
Times claiming I had asked our Embassy in
Lebanon to help the Vesco group in a bank-
ing deal. I not only did not do so but, in actual
fact, I caused the State Department to cable
the Embassy that no one at the White House
had any interest in the Vesco dealings. Since
I have already reported to you many of the
facts in the Gray case, I need only say that at
no time did I directly or indirectly suggest that
Mr. Gray should do other than keep the Hunt
documents, although there have been reports
to the contrary. Equally without merit are the
source stories about some alleged involvement
in the Watergate matter.
As I analyze my situation, I have to conclude
that my present usefulness to you and ability
to discharge my duties have been impaired by
these attacks, perhaps beyond repair.
It is not fair to you and my staff colleagues
for me to try to do my job under these cir-
134
cumstances. Too much of my time and atten-
tion is and will be consumed in concern for and
straightening out such allegations. At my re-
quest, I am going to have separate interviews
this week with the District Attorney and the
Senate Committee Counsel. Thus, I am looking
forward to an early review of the facts and evi-
dence with the appropriate authorities, and I
should spend the time necessary in relation
thereto.
One of the toughest problems we have in this
life is in seeing the difference between the ap-
parent and the real, and in basing our actions
only on that which is real. We all must do that
more than we do. I have confidence in the ulti-
mate prevalence of truth; I intend to do what I
can to speed truth's discovery.
Therefore, Mr. President, I submit to you
my resignation. There are on the Domestic
Council staff so many good people of ability
that I am confident a transition of my respon-
sibilities can be affected without loss of prog-
ress. I will do all I can to assist in accomplish-
ing the transition.
Yours sincerely,
JOHN D. EHRLICHMAN,
Assistant to the President
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
Address to the Nation About the Watergate
Investigations. April 30, 1973
Good evening:
I want to talk to you tonight from my
heart on a subject of deep concern to
every American.
In recent months, members of my Ad-
ministration and officials of the Commit-
tee for the Re-Election of the President-
including some of my closest friends and
most trusted aides have been charged
with involvement in what has come to be
known as the Watergate affair. These in-
clude charges of illegal activity during and
preceding the 1972 Presidential election
and charges that responsible officials par-
ticipated in efforts to cover up that illegal
activity.
The inevitable result of these charges
has been to raise serious questions about
the integrity of the White House itself.
Tonight I wish to address those questions.
Last June 17, while I was in Florida
trying to get a few days rest after my visit
to Moscow, I first learned from news re-
ports of the Watergate break-in. I was
appalled at this senseless, illegal action,
and I was shocked to learn that employ-
ees of the Re-Election Committee were
apparently among those guilty. I im-
328
