[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
it into law with a strong sense of pride
and hope. Other Administration initia-
tives, however, still languish on Capitol
Hill. To break the present stalemate, I am
prepared to accept something less than
the full legislative measures I have pro-
posed. I would hope that in the same
spirit some Members of the Congress
would drop their insistence upon continu-
ing the programs which have produced
such limited social returns.
THE BETTER COMMUNITIES ACT
The Better Communities Act is the
centerpiece of the legislative package
which my Administration has sent to the
Congress this year in the community de-
velopment field. Embodied in this bill is
a fundamentally different approach to the
problems of community life. If it were
passed, the Federal Government would
continue to funnel money into our com-
munities, but essential decisions on how
that money was to be spent would no
longer be made in Washington but at the
local level. Five categorical grant pro-
grams and two loan programs which have
proven to be inflexible and fragmented
would be replaced and local governments
would no longer be hamstrung by Wash-
ington's red tape.
I am aware that action on this bill has
been delayed partly because some Mem-
bers of the Congress wish to consider the
Administration's housing proposals simul-
taneously. As I indicated in March, I
ordered an intensive six-month study of
Government housing policies to be con-
ducted before I submitted such proposals.
That study has just been completed and I
plan to submit shortly a new set of hous-
ing policy recommendations to the Con-
gress. When those recommendations
arrive, I am hopeful that the Congress
will move swiftly on both the Better Com-
munities Act and the housing requests.
Final action in 1973 may be an unreal-
istic goal, but I would certainly hope that
we might have new laws on the books by
early spring in 1974-
Finally, it is important that the Con-
gress pass the simple one-year extension
of the FHA mortgage insurance programs
which will expire October 1. Last week
the House of Representatives took con-
structive action by refusing to act on an
extension bill which contained several un-
desirable "Christmas tree" amendments
The Congress should now act swiftly and
responsibly in order to prevent a repeat
of the month-long gap in FHA insurance
activity which occurred early this sum-
mer.
RAILROADS
There can be no doubt that the plight
of the rail lines in the 17 States of the
Northeast and Midwest presents an im-
mediate and far-reaching transportation
problem. Six major railroad lines in this
area are now bankrupt and shutdowns are
threatened. The danger extends across
the country because railroads in other
parts of the Nation still use the bankrupt
lines. A failure of any significant part of
our Nation's railroad system would im-
pair our ability to move freight efficiently
and cheaply to all parts of our Nation.
The solution proposed by the Adminis-
tration would provide for the restructur-
ing of the railroad system so that new,
privately-owned and economically viable
rail systems could be developed from
those now in bankruptcy. The Federal
Government would provide some $125
778
