Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 6 [248]
tions. Its stated purpose is to benefit the
working man and woman by raising the
minimum wage. The minimum wage for
most workers has not been adjusted for
five years and in the interim, as sponsors
of this bill recognize, rising prices have
seriously eroded the purchasing power of
those who are still paid at the lowest end
of the wage scale.
There can be no doubt about the need
for a higher minimum wage. Both fairness
and decency require that we act now-
this year to raise the minimum wage
rate. We cannot allow millions of Ameri-
ca's low-income families to become the
prime casualties of inflation.
Yet in carrying out our good intentions,
we must also be sure that we do not penal-
ize the very people who need help most.
The legislation which my Administration
has actively and consistently supported
would ultimately raise the minimum wage
to higher levels than the bill that I am
today vetoing, but would do so in stages
over a longer period of time and thereby
protect employment opportunities for low
wage earners and the unemployed.
H.R. 7935, on the other hand, would
unfortunately do far more harm than
good. It would cause unemployment. It is
inflationary. And it hurts those who can
least afford it. For all of these reasons, I
am compelled to return it without my
approval.
ADVERSE EFFECT ON EMPLOYMENT
H.R. 7935 would raise the wage rate to
$2.00 for most non-farm workers on No-
vember 1 and 8 months later, would in-
crease it to $2.20. Thus in less than a year,
employers would be faced with a 37.5
percent increase in the minimum wage
rate.
No one knows precisely what impact
such sharp and dramatic increases would
have upon employment, but my economic
advisors inform me that there would prob-
ably be a significant decrease in employ-
ment opportunities for those affected.
When faced with the decision to increase
their pay rates by more than a third
within a year or to lay off their workers,
many employers will be forced to cut back
jobs and hours. And the worker will be the
first victim.
The solution to this problem is to raise
the minimum wage floor more gradually,
permitting employers to absorb the higher
labor costs over time and minimizing the
adverse effects of cutting back on employ-
ment. That is why I favor legislation
which would raise the floor to a higher
level than H.R. 7935 but would do so over
a longer period of time. The bill supported
by the Administration would raise the
minimum wage for most non-farm
workers from $1.60 to $1.90, effective im-
mediately, and then over the next three
years, would raise it to $2.30. I believe
this is a much more prudent and helpful
approach.
INCREASING INFLATION
Sharp increases in the minimum wage
rate are also inflationary. Frequently
workers paid more than the minimum
gauge their wages relative to it. This is
especially true of those workers who are
paid by the hour. An increase in the mini-
mum therefore increases their demands
for higher wages-in order to maintain
their place in the structure of wages. And
when the increase is as sharp as it is in
H.R. 7935, the result is sure to be a fresh
surge of inflation.
Once again, prudence dictates a more
747
