[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
settled. No comprehensive plans for a set-
tlement lay on the table. No prospects for
a breakthrough existed.
THE BASIC FOUNDATION:
VIETNAMIZATION
Faced with this situation, we chose what
we believed to be the only responsible
course-to follow the parallel tracks of
negotiation and Vietnamization. Our first
preference was a negotiated settlement,
and we undertook both public and pri-
vate diplomacy to this end. Our irreduci-
ble conditions were that the people of
South Vietnam be allowed to determine
their own future and that all our pris-
oners be returned. We also looked to-
ward a ceasefire to end the war for all
participants.
But one side cannot negotiate a peace,
and the North Vietnamese constantly
made two unacceptable demands. First,
they insisted we withdraw totally from
South Vietnam before any other condi-
tions were even discussed. Secondly, they
demanded we overthrow the existing gov-
ernment in South Vietnam and replace it
with a Communist-dominated structure.
This was the only way, they said, to get
our prisoners back or obtain an overall
settlement. Unless we were prepared to
hand South Vietnam over to the enemy,
there was no prospect of an early break-
through at the conference table.
Therefore, even while we sought peace
through negotiations, we needed an alter-
native course of action. We wanted to
ensure that:
-Our withdrawal would not depend
on the enemy's reasonableness at the
conference table. We wanted to re-
duce our involvement to demonstrate
that it was not open-ended.
-The act of our withdrawal would not
overthrow the non-Communist
forces. We were determined to dis-
engage responsibly.
We thus developed the Vietnamization
program in close cooperation with the
Government of the Republic of Vietnam
(GVN). This policy was designed to
strengthen the armed forces and the peo-
ple of South Vietnam so that they could
defend themselves. As their forces in-
creased in numbers, equipment, combat
skills, and leadership, they progressively
assumed responsibility for their own de-
fense. The process also involved the exten-
sion of governmental authority in the
countryside through the pacification pro-
gram, the growth of economic capacities,
the development of political institutions-
all the elements that would allow South
Vietnam to stand on its own.
While negotiations foundered on Com-
munist intransigence, Vietnamization was
an honorable and convincing alternative.
We had the following considerations in
mind:
-Vietnamization allowed us unilater-
ally to achieve our objective of wind-
ing down our involvement.
-We had to ensure that our friends
over the longer term could take over
their self-defense completely, since
we could not stay there indefinitely.
-Our policy reflected our overall ap-
proach to friends and allies around
the world-we would continue to
play a strong supporting role, but we
would increasingly look to our part-
ners to assume greater responsibilities
for their security and development.
-We needed to demonstrate to Hanoi
and its allies that we had an option
so long as they blocked progress at the
conference table-one that enabled
378
