[330] Nov. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
April of this year that I sent to the Con-
gress requests for seven major pieces of
legislation. I urged action on an urgent
basis.
One has now reached my desk, the
Alaskan pipeline, and as far as that one
is concerned, despite the fact that it has
some riders on it that I will have to ask
the Congress in later legislation to re-
move, I, of course, will sign the bill, be-
cause the Alaskan pipeline is necessary,
and once it is in operation in 1967 (1977)
it will furnish the United States-and get
this number-almost a third of our oil
needs [imports], and that is, of course, one
of the reasons why its delay has been al-
most unconscionable, a delay for reasons
that I thought were rather fatuous,
frankly.
Now, coming beyond that, however,
as we look at our energy problem, as I
described it, a serious problem, what was
a serious problem in April-and the
Congress did consider it serious but not
serious enough to act upon it--became a
crisis as a result of the Mideast.
Now, one thing I must warn this audi-
ence and the American people about, now
that we see that we have already had a
cease-fire in the Mideast, now that we see
negotiations beginning that hold out the
hope that some of the Arab nations that
have oil may relent with regard to their
oil embargo and let the oil come in, some
may get the impression, well, if we begin
to get the Mideast oil again, then there
will be no energy crisis which the Presi-
dent had described a few days ago in his
remarks, and we can go back to driving 70
miles an hour rather than 50 miles an
hour, and we can turn up our heat in our
home from 68 to 78 or 88, or higher yet,
if you want to go someplace that I don't
want to go to. [Laughter]
But the point is, we have already lost,
my friends, we have already lost 6 weeks
of oil from the Mideast. Even if the thing
were settled in the next 2 weeks, we would
have lost 2 months. We may lose 3
months. And so the crisis is there, and
that is why these extraordinary measures
have been taken and why we urge your
cooperation voluntarily in seeing that
across this Nation we have enough light,
enough transportation, enough heat, but
not more than we need, so that everybody
sacrifices a little, and no one, then, will
have to suffer at all. That is the program,
and I hope that you will support it.
But again, putting it in parallel with
the Mideast situation, it is so easy to say,
as in the Mideast, "Well, we have a cease-
fire," and then relax, and then 7 or 8
years from now another war and an even
closer possibility of confrontation between
the super powers.
In the Mideast we have not been satis-
fied with that. We are moving from the
cease-fire toward a permanent settlement,
and in energy we must not be satisfied
with doing enough this year to take care
of our heating and transportation and
lighting and power to run our factories
and farms, and so forth, and feel that if
we do enough this year, then maybe next
year we can go back to business as usual.
And that is why I have set a goal for
the United States, one that I ask all
Americans to join in. In the year 1976,
as you know, we will be celebrating our
200th birthday, and that, of course, is a
great birthday because it is the birthday
of our independence. I was hoping that
we could also set as a goal for the year
1976, our national independence birth-
day, a goal of being self-sufficient in
energy so that no nation, not an Arab
country, not a Latin American country,
938
