[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
In Laos and Cambodia we have never
undertaken the primary role but have
confined our efforts to supporting those of
the indigenous governments. This is true
both at the conference table and on the
battlefield:
-We have supported the attempts of
the Laotian and Cambodian Govern-
ments to negotiate peace either on
their own or as part of an overall
Indochina settlement. In these efforts
they have taken the lead and shaped
the nature of the settlements they
were seeking.
-While negotiations have been blocked
by Hanoi's intransigence, the Lao
and Cambodians have carried the
ground combat responsibility while
we provided military and economic
assistance and, at their request, air
and logistic support. We also sup-
ported South Vietnamese defensive
strikes into North Vietnamese base
areas in these two countries.
Our role has been, and will continue
to be, strictly limited: no U.S.
ground combat personnel, a mini-
mum American presence overall, and
military support strictly tailored to
the pressures of the North Vietnam-
ese, the situation in South Vietnam,
and the requests of the threatened
governments.
-Our help has nevertheless been cru-
cial for the independence of these
countries and the pursuit of our ob-
jectives in Vietnam.
LAOS
The United States Government has
always favored a stable peace in Laos
and the genuine independence and neu-
trality of that nation. Our objective has
been a Laos free of conflict, free of out-
side forces, and free to determine its own
future.
We therefore welcome the Agreement
on Laos negotiated and concluded by the
Laotian parties themselves on Febru-
ary 21, 1973. We hope that this Agree-
ment, coupled with the related provisions
of the Vietnam settlement, will secure a
lasting peace in Laos and finally permit
that country to devote itself to the tasks of
reconstruction and development.
A Fragile Peace. In the negotiations on
Vietnam we took the consistent position
that there should be an early ceasefire in
Laos as well as Vietnam. The shaping of
a settlement there was, of course, up to
the parties themselves. Our friends needed
no encouragement from us to negotiate
the end of the conflict, so we pressed in
Paris for Hanoi to ensure Pathet Lao
readiness to conclude a settlement.
Negotiations between the Laotian par-
ties began on September 18, 1972, and ran
parallel to our talks with the North Viet-
namese. One of the issues still not resolved
to our satisfaction in late October in Paris
was the prospect for early peace in Laos.
As we moved toward a final settlement for
Vietnam, the Laotian parties made prog-
ress in their talks. By the time we signed
the Vietnam Agreement on January 27,
1973, we were confident that a ceasefire
in Laos would be achieved within a mat-
ter of weeks, and we knew that our prison-
ers captured in Laos would be released
within sixty days. Final obstacles to a
Laos settlement remained, however, when
Dr. Kissinger visited Vientiane, Bangkok,
Hanoi, and Peking in mid-February and
accordingly the Laos situation was a
major topic on the agenda for those
visits.
During this period, the final issues were
settled by the Laotian parties and the
398
