[23] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
and not get through, but one that can get
through the Congress. That is the
problem.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
[10] Mr. Mollenhoff [Clark R. Mol-
lenhoff. Des Moines Register and Trib-
une].
Q. Did you approve of the use of execu-
tive privilege by Air Force Secretary Sea-
mans in refusing to disclose the White
House role in the firing of air cost analyst
Fitzgerald?
It came up yesterday in the Civil Serv-
ice hearings. He used executive privilege.
You had stated earlier that you would
approve all of these uses of executive
privilege, as I understood it, and I won-
dered whether your view still prevails in
this area or whether others are now en-
titled to use executive privilege on their
own in this type of case?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mollenhoff, your
first assumption is correct. In my dealings
with the Congress I say mine, let me put
it in a broader sense-in the dealings of
the Executive with the Congress, I do not
want to abuse the executive privilege
proposition where the matter does not
involve a direct conference with or discus-
sion within the Administration, particu-
larly where the President is involved. And
where it is an extraneous matter as far as
the White House is concerned, as was the
case when we waived executive privilege
for Mr. Flanigan last year, as you will re-
call, we are not going to assert it.
In this case, as I understand it---and I
did not approve this directly, but it was
approved at my direction by those who
have the responsibility within the White
House in this case it was a proper area
in which the executive privilege should
have been used.
On the other hand. I can assure you
that all of these cases will be handled
on a case-by-case basis, and we are not
going to be in a position where an in-
dividual, when he gets under heat from a
Congressional committee, can say, “Look,
I am going to assert executive privilege.”
He will call down here, and Mr. Dean,
the White House Counsel, will then ad-
vise him as to whether or not we approve
it.
Q. I want to follow one question on
this.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. This seems to be an expansion of
what executive privilege was in the past,
and you were quite critical of executive
privilege in 1948 when you were in the
Congress-
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly was.
Q. You seem to have expanded it from
conversation with the President himself
to conversation with anyone in the execu-
tive branch of the Government and I
wonder, can you cite any law or decision
of the courts that supports that view?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Mollenhoff,
I don't want to leave the impression that
I am expanding it beyond that. I perhaps
have not been as precise as I should have
been. And I think yours is a very legiti
mate question because you have been one
who has not had a double standard on
this. You have always felt that executive
privilege, whether I was complaining
about its use when I was an investigator
or whether I am now defending its use
when others are doing the investigating--
I understand that position.
60
