[52] Feb. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
finally, it affects how much you can spend
on your own and how much you have to
pay back to the Government in taxes.
Let's look briefly at each of these
elements.
To begin with, the job picture today is
very encouraging. The number of people
at work in this country rose by 2.3 million
during 1972, the largest increase in 25
years. Unemployment fell from the 6 per-
cent level in 1971 to 5 percent last month.
This record is even more remarkable since
so many more people have been seeking
jobs than usual. Nearly 3 million Amer-
icans have been released from defense-
related jobs since 1969, including over 1
million veterans. Women and teenagers
have also been looking for work in record
numbers. Yet jobs for all these groups have
increased even faster.
The reason for this success is that the
economy grew by 6½ percent last year,
one of the best performances in the past
quarter century. Our economic advisers
expect a growth rate of nearly 7 percent
in 1973. That would bring unemployment
down to around the 4½ percent level.
The second great question is how much
you take home from your job, how much
it will buy for you. Here the news is also
good. Not only are more people working,
but they are getting more for their work.
Average per capita income rose by 7.7 per-
cent during 1972. That is well above the
average gain during the previous 10 years.
Most important, however, is that these
gains were not wiped out by rising prices,
as they often were in the 1960's.
The Federal Government spent too
much too fast in that period, and the
result was runaway inflation. Your wages
may have climbed very rapidly during
those years, but not your purchasing
power. Now that has changed. The infla-
tion rate last year was cut nearly in half
from what it was 4 years ago. The pur-
chasing power of the average worker's
take-home pay rose more last year than
in any year since 1955. It went up by
4.3 percent, the equivalent of two extra
weekly paychecks.
We expect to reduce inflation even fur-
ther in 1973, for several reasons. The
fundamental reason is the Nation's grow-
ing opposition to big spending. We have
a good chance now, the best in years, to
curb the growth of the Federal budget.
That will do more than anything else to
protect your family budget.
Other forces are working for us, too.
Productivity increased sharply last year,
which means the average worker is pro-
ducing more and, therefore, can earn more
without driving prices higher. In addition,
the fact that real spendable earnings rose
so substantially last year will encourage
reasonable wage demands this year. Work-
ers will not have to catch up from an
earlier slump in earnings.
Finally, we now have a new system of
wage and price controls, one that is the
right kind of system for 1973. The idea
that controls have virtually been ended
is totally wrong. We still have firm con-
trols. We are still enforcing them firmly.
All that is changed is our method of
enforcing them.
The old wage and price control system
depended on a Washington bureaucracy
to approve major wage and price in-
creases in advance. Although it was ef-
fective while it lasted, this system was
beginning to produce inequities and to get
tangled in redtape. The new system will
avoid these dangers. Like most of our laws,
it relies largely on self-administration, on
the voluntary cooperation of the American
people. But if some people should fail to
114
