[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
informed by our petroleum industry con-
cerning its negotiations to develop new
relationships with the world's major oil
producing countries. Finally, we are in-
vestigating ways in which closer cooper-
ation among producers and consumers
could result in an adequate supply of oil
and natural gas throughout the world-
with due regard for the interests of con-
sumers and producers alike.
We are maintaining our support for
the development of nuclear energy, which
has proven to be an economically viable
alternative to more traditional fuels for
the generation of electric power. In all
aspects of U.S. cooperation with other
nations in the nuclear energy field, how-
ever, we continue to insist on satisfactory
safeguards against the diversion of nuclear
materials from civilian use to the produc-
tion of weapons.
We are also considering the feasibility
of developing other alternative sources of
energy—the gasification of coal, recovery
of oil from shale, and the utilization of
solar and geothermal resources.
In my recent energy policy statement,
I announced several modifications in our
domestic policies, and a major increase
in funding and renewed emphasis on re-
search and development programs aimed
at creating alternative sources of energy.
I am confident these programs will make
possible the rapid expansion of domestic
energy supplies that may be needed in
the future.
The energy problem will also have
major impact on our national security and
foreign policy planning. Potential vulner-
abilities could be created for the United
States and our allies as we increase our
energy imports in coming years. We will
continue to consider these problems and
design programs to alleviate them.
The shifting energy scene is a major
challenge for international cooperation.
These new common problems could intro-
duce strains into our relations with other
countries. But they also create new op-
portunities for cooperation that could
ultimately bring countries closer together.
Cooperative research efforts with other
nations can do much to speed the devel-
opment of new forms of energy. Such
cooperation in this difficult and expensive
process is of mutual advantage to all na-
tions. And while we search for new sources
we must move with others--producers
and consumers alike-toward wider meas-
ures of cooperation to ensure that the
world's remaining fossil fuels are used
most effectively.
POLLUTION AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Global environmental concerns tran-
scend national boundaries, economic sys-
tems, and ideologies. They demand a truly
global response. During the past year, we
made progress on a number of fronts to-
ward developing such a response.
Multilateral Actions. The most notable
success was the first UN Conference on
the Human Environment. Held in Stock-
holm in June 1972, with 113 countries
participating, the Conference agreed on a
far reaching program for international
action on the earth's environmental ills.
Specific aspects of the program include
a global system to monitor the environ-
ment; international conventions to con-
trol ocean dumping of shore-generated
wastes and to preserve plants and animals
threatened with extinction; and creation
of a World Heritage Trust to protect
unique natural, historical, or cultural
areas. The Conference also decided to set
up an Environmental Secretariat to co-
514
