Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 4 [346]
osophical ideas were. A policy of respect-
ing the independence and sovereignty of
every nation, large and small, in the
world, and a policy of always recognizing
that unless each nation has independence,
and that that independence is not in-
fringed upon and not threatened by other
nations, there cannot be real peace, last-
ing peace, in the world.
This is the goal of our nation; it is the
goal of your nation. It is one that we have
discussed on several occasions before, and
it is one that, in addition to the bipartisan
matters we will be discussing, I am sure,
we shall discuss at length in our 2-day
visit on this occasion.
We are happy that you and your wife
will be able to visit not only Washington
but a number of other cities in our coun-
try, and we know that you will receive
here the same warmhearted welcome that
made such an enormous impression on
Mrs. Nixon and me and all the members
of our party when we had the honor of
visiting your country, Romania.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
President Ceaușescu was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors.
President Ceauşescu spoke in Romanian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and gentle-
men:
It is an occasion of particular pleasure for
me, for my wife, and for my colleagues here to
find ourselves again in the United States to
meet you again, Mr. President, and to continue
the dialog we started in 1967, and which has
proved to be so fruitful both for the relations
between our two nations and also for the de-
velopment of cooperation and peace in the
world.
It is true that after the visit you officially
paid to Romania as the first President of the
United States to be in my country, the visit
you made together with Mrs. Nixon in 1969,
the relations between our two countries have
seen a continual progress. We have achieved
significant developments in our economic co-
operation. At the same time, our relations in
the field of science, culture, exchanges of peo-
ple in various fields, have developed also. Our
peoples have started to know each other better
and to cooperate together in the interest of
general progress, of cooperation and peace
in the world.
Likewise, the visit I paid to the United States
in 1970, the talks I had at that time with you,
with other political, economic personalities,
with the representatives of the business com-
munity in the United States, have given a
new impetus to the cooperation between our
two countries. It is true since 1967, and then
since your first official visit to my country in
1969, a number of years have passed. And in
these years, many things have changed in the
world, and these changes continue to take place
and to become more accentuated, leading in
the direction of a better cooperation among all
peoples, in the direction of the assertion of each
nation's independence, of the right for free eco-
nomic and social development in conditions of
observing each people's right to organize its
life as it wishes and deems fit without any out-
side interference.
One can really say that the visit you paid to
Romania was really a good start, and it marked
favorable developments in the relations of your
country with the Socialist countries, followed by
the visit to the People's Republic of China and
your visit to the Soviet Union. It opened the
course toward developing cooperation with
other Socialist countries as well. This is cer-
tainly an important moment in the develop-
ments of the world today and in the general
course to insure a lasting peace in this world of
ours.
In its policy, Romania starts from the prem-
ise that in the settlement of the great interna-
tional problems, all states have a part to play,
and they all should cooperate on an equal basis.
No doubt the greater countries have greater
responsibilities and a greater role to play, but
life itself has demonstrated that the big inter-
national issues can only be settled with the par-
ticipation and direct contribution of all states
in international affairs.
989
