[255] Sept. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say, as a result of the trip you have
taken to Washington, we know that many
young people in this country will not be
taking unhappy trips to other places
through other means in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:02 am. in
the East Room at the White House to repre-
sentatives of the criminal justice system from
23 cities and counties who were attending the
conference.
On the same day, the White House released
fact sheets on the conference and Administra-
tion initiatives in the fields of drug abuse law
enforcement, treatment, and rehabilitation.
Also released was biographical data on John
R. Bartels, Jr., in connection with his nomina-
tion to be Administrator of Drug Enforcement,
Department of Justice. The announcement is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents vol 9. p 1126).
256 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Statutes of
the World Tourism Organization. September 12, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
Statutes of the World Tourism Organiza-
tion done at Mexico City on Septem-
ber 27, 1970. The report of the Depart-
ment of State is enclosed for the informa-
tion of the Senate.
The Statutes establish the World Tour-
ism Organization as an international orga-
nization of intergovernmental character
replacing the International Union of
Official Travel Organizations, a non-gov-
ernmental organization.
The World Tourism Organization will
continue the activities of the International
Union of Official Travel Organizations
in promoting and facilitating interna-
tional tourism. Additionally, because of
the World Tourism Organization's inter-
governmental character and close associa
tion with the United Nations system, it is
anticipated that it will become an even
more effective organization. I recommend
that the Senate give early and favorable
consideration to the Statutes and give its
advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
September 12, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the statutes and accompany.
ing papers are printed in Senate Executive R
(93d Cong, 1st sess.).
257 White House Statement on House Action Sustaining
the Emergency Medical Services Bill Veto.
September 12, 1973
THE PRESIDENT is pleased by the ac-
tion of the House of Representatives in
voting to sustain his veto of the emergency
medical services bill. This shows restraint
on the part of some Members of Congress
to hold the line on spending and join the
President's efforts in fighting inflation.
The President feels those Members of
the House of Representatives who voted to
sustain deserve the thanks of all Ameri-
cans for their actions.
790
