[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
achieved: and the costs of price support
are down. Americans and the entire world
have benefited from the extraordinary
productivity of American agriculture. In
the period ahead, we seek to use this
productivity in domestic and world mar-
ketplaces in order to maintain both high
farm income and reasonable consumer
prices.
REFORMING COMMUNITY AND AREA
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
My deep commitment to providing
change that works is, and must be,
matched by a total determination to iden-
tify and reform or eliminate programs
that have not worked. It would be irre-
sponsible to continue spending taxpayers'
money for programs that have long since
served their purpose, are not working at
all, or are not working sufficiently to jus-
tify their costs.
I began my efforts in community and
area development with proposals for gen-
eral and special revenue sharing. In 1971.
I proposed a reorganization of the execu
tive branch agencies responsible for com-
munity and area development programs-
to consolidate related functions and there-
by assure better management. Substantial
progress in furthering community devel-
opment was made last year when General
Revenue Sharing became law.
The 1974 budget reflects my determi-
nation to accelerate major reforms of pro-
grams for urban development and hous-
ing, rural development, transportation,
and crime prevention and criminal justice.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING.-
During the past 4 years, the private hous-
ing industry reached, and has maintained,
an unprecedented level of housing pro-
duction. Early in this period the down-
ward trend in housing production that
existed in 1969 was reversed. New housing
starts rose 60%, from 1.5 million in cal-
endar year 1969 to nearly 2.4 million in
calendar year 1972, a new record. While
federally subsidized starts were 11% of the
1972 total, it is clear that our broad fiscal
and monetary policies are the dominant
factors that determined the overall level
of housing production.
Throughout this period, federally as-
sisted housing programs have been
plagued with problems and their intended
beneficiaries have thus been shortchanged.
As a result, new commitments under those
programs which have not worked well
enough have been temporarily halted,
pending a complete reevaluation of the
Federal role in housing and of alternative
ways to provide housing.
In addition, no new projects will be
approved under several outmoded and
narrowly focused community develop-
ment programs which have not produced
benefits that justify their costs to the
taxpayer. Continuing to channel resources
into these programs can only delay the
initiation of more effective programs and
policies.
The 1974 budget will:
--honor those commitments already
made under housing and community
development programs:
--continue the evaluation of alternative
ways to help the private market sat-
isfy the Nation's need for housing;
continue to seek congressional ap-
proval of the Administration's Urban
Community Development Revenue
Sharing proposal so that new funds
can begin to flow to State and local
governments on July 1, 1974; and
-emphasize those programs that help
State and local officials strengthen
46
