[160] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
through, I can realize how so many Amer-
icans say, "We want to do no more❞—
just 100 days after the cease-fire agree-
ments were signed in Paris. These agree-
ments which preserve both the honor of
the United States and the freedom of
South Vietnam were achieved in principle
through a combination of diplomacy and
strength. They can only be maintained
and upheld through that same combina-
tion-diplomacy and strength.
Now, so far there has been considerable
progress in carrying out the provisions of
the peace agreement that we signed just
100 days ago in Paris. Our troops, our
prisoners are home, violence in South
Vietnam is declining, the cease-fire has
been extended to Laos.
But compliance with the agreement is
still gravely deficient in many respects.
The cooperation which North Vietnam
promised to give us in making a full ac-
counting for Americans listed as missing
in action has not been satisfactory. And
I can assure you that we must and will
insist that this promise, this pledge, this
solemn agreement be kept, because just
as America never broke faith with our
prisoners of war, I can assure you today
we will not break faith with those who
are reported missing in action. They must
all be accounted for by the North Viet-
namese.
North Vietnam, as you have probably
read, has also persisted in violations of
the Paris agreements. They have, for
example, refused to withdraw thousands
of troops from Cambodia and Laos. They
have poured huge amounts of military
equipment into these areas and into
South Vietnam. And I say to you, my
friends, today, it would be a crime against
the memory of those Americans who
made the ultimate sacrifice for peace in
Indochina, a serious blow to this coun-
try's ability to lead constructively else-
where in the world, for us to stand by and
permit the peace settlement that we
reached in Paris to be systematically
destroyed by violations such as this.
That is why we are continuing to take
the necessary measures to insist that all
parties to the agreement keep their word,
live up to their obligations. A peace agree-
ment that is only a piece of paper is
something that we are not interested in.
We want a peace agreement that is
adhered to. We are adhering to the agree-
ment. We expect the other side to adhere
to that agreement.
It should be clearly understood by every-
one concerned in this country and abroad
that our policy is not aimed at con-
tinuing the war in Vietnam or renewing
the war that has been ended. Rather, the
aim of our policy is to preserve and
strengthen the peace, a peace which we
achieved at great cost in the past, which
holds such promise in the future.
During the homecoming ceremonies for
our returning prisoners of war several
weeks ago, you may recall that one of
the men had a small American flag which
he had made while he was in prison. He
carried it out to freedom with him. His
name was Major Robert Peel, United
States Air Force. When his turn came to
speak, he held up that small flag and
said, "We never lost faith in the American
people, and we knew these colors
wouldn't run."
We can be proud today that all during
the long struggle in Vietnam, these
colors-and there they are, see them
there, gloriously flying in the wind-these
colors didn't run from America's com-
mitment to freedom and peace in the
world. And let us resolve today, they are
544
