Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 2 [28]
KENNETH RUSH-Deputy Secretary of State
WILLIAM E. SIMON-Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury
JOSEPH T. SNEED-Deputy Attorney General
JOHN C. WHITAKER-Under Secretary of the
Interior
FRANK C. CARLUCCI-Under Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare
EGIL KROGH, JR.-Under Secretary of Trans-
portation
WILLIAM J. PORTER-Under Secretary of State
for Political Affairs
WILLIAM J. CASEY-Under Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs
DONALD RUMSFELD-United States Ambas-
sador to NATO
FREDERIC V. MALEK-Deputy Director, Office
of Management and Budget
FRANK C. HERRINGER-Administrator, Urban
Mass Transportation Administration
The President then resumed speaking.]
Mr. Chief Justice, we want to express
our appreciation to you for being with us
this morning, and we will congratulate all
the members of the Cabinet and the sub-
Cabinet en masse, and express our ap-
preciation, too, for the members of the
Cabinet who are here who are continuing,
and to those who are leaving the Cabinet
for their superb work in behalf of this
country.
I would like to say a word to the Chief
Justice, incidentally, in his presence and
without at all interfering with his inde-
pendence and his separation of power,
which, of course, neither he nor I would
countenance.
Last night he was invited to attend the
dinner in honor of the British Prime
Minister. He was unable to come because
he had, as he said, a touch of whatever,
the virus or flu, that is running around.
This morning he is here. He still is not
feeling too well, but he came, nevertheless.
It gives me, therefore, a good point of
departure to say very simply that I know
the tremendous load he carries in the
Court with the great number of very im-
portant and sometimes very controversial
decisions that do come before the Court in
these times.
I know, too, the tremendous amount of
work he does outside the Court, but for
the purpose of promoting better justice
all over the country, including the State
courts and the local courts. He has spoken
at judicial conferences and has given
leadership in such a splendid way. And I
know, too, that when we have a ceremony
of this type, or a dinner honoring a dis-
tinguished guest, that the Chief Justice
is always one who, if he can come, he will
be there. And for a man to get out of a
sickbed to come here, I think he deserves
a little hand this morning, too.
Mr. Chief Justice, if you don't mind,
don't get too close to any of the members
of the Cabinet. We can't afford any time
off.
I am immune, so it doesn't bother me.
We would like to stay and greet all of
the members of families who are here, but
there is a luncheon at the British Embassy
which some of us have to attend, in fact,
some of the members of the Cabinet, the
Secretary of State, and Mrs. Nixon and
myself, so we will depart now.
But despite the austerity of the budget,
Mr. Ash says that we can afford coffee
this morning and some very small rolls,
so you can have them out here.
Thank you very much, and we con-
gratulate you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
73
