[101] Mar. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
did not like. They called him a rear ad-
miral. John Ford was never "rear," and
as Commander in Chief of the Armed
Forces, for the balance of this evening,
John Ford is a full admiral.
The second part of my presentation is
one that gives me great honor. The Presi-
dent of the United States always, and as it
should be in a free country, has to take
positions and make speeches from time
to time in which there is a difference of
opinion among our people. However,
there are rare occasions, and this is one
of them, when he speaks for all of the
people. It used to be said in American
politics, "As Maine goes, so goes the
Nation," and in 1932 that proved not to
be true. But tonight, as this son of Maine
goes, so goes the Nation. It isn't just a
landslide; it is unanimous for John Ford.
Therefore, I tonight speak for all of
the American people, for millions of
people around this world, who respect
and appreciate his genius, because John
Ford is one who, by what he has done, has
earned the respect of not only his country-
men but of others throughout the world.
There is little that I can add to the
citation that I will read to you in a mo-
ment, except to say that we can present
to him only the highest civilian award
that can be presented in this country, and
its name is one that is very appropriate,
because John Ford passionately loves free-
dom. John Ford, in his works, has depicted
freedom in all of its profound depths, in
all of its aspects to all of the world, and
John Ford has fought for freedom, and
for that reason it is appropriate that to-
night, on behalf of all of the American
people, he receives the Medal of Free-
dom. I now read the citation:
"The President of the United States of
America awards the Presidential Medal
of Freedom to John Ford.
"In the annals of American film, no
name shines more brightly than that of
John Ford. Director and film maker for
more than half a century, he stands pre-
eminent in the crowd, not only as a creator
of individual films of surpassing excel-
lence, but as a master among those who
transformed the early motion pictures into
a compelling new art form that developed
in America and swept the world. As an
interpreter of the nation's heritage, he left
his personal stamp indelibly imprinted on
the consciousness of whole generations,
both here and abroad. In his life and in his
work, John Ford represents the best in
American films, and the very best in
America."
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 p.m. at
the first annual awards dinner of the American
Film Institute in the Beverly Hilton Hotel,
Beverly Hills, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
the text of the citation accompanying the
award for Mr. Ford and a fact sheet on the
Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Following the President's remarks, Mr. Ford
responded as follows:
Thank you, sir.
As [former POW] Captain Jeremiah Denton
said I hope I get through with this; I am
about ready to bust out in crying-as Captain
Denton said as he set foot for the first time in
many years on continental American soil, "I
am stunned and bewildered at this reception."
He ended with "God bless America." I quote
his words with feeling.
There are some people in this world who
don't think that we movie folks have any reli-
gion, but a glance around this distinguished
audience is living refutation of that nonsense.
In a recent telephone conversation with the
President, he said, "What is your reaction to
the prisoners coming home?" I said, "Frankly,
246
