Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 17 [361]
most active in developing this new en-
vironmental program and drafting several
international treaties concerning the con-
servation of the natural and cultural heri-
tage of mankind, protection of endan-
gered species of plants and animals, and
prevention of the contamination of the
oceans from shipping and offshore dis-
posal of wastes.
cope
But we need to do much more. We need
additional knowledge about what the se-
rious global problems are and how to
with them; we need to monitor con-
ditions and trends of pollutants in the
oceans, in the atmosphere, and in terres-
trial environments; and we need to man-
age our natural resources more effectively.
361
These are the kinds of activities that will
be supported by the United Nations En-
vironment Fund.
We hold the Earth-its environment
and its resources-in trust for future gen-
erations. We must not violate that trust,
nor our obligation to the future, by per-
mitting the increasing degradation of the
environment. I call upon all nations to
support the U.N. Environment Program
and to work cooperatively to conserve and
enhance the world environment so that
others may enjoy and benefit from it as
we have.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.R. 6768), ap-
proved December 15, 1973, is Public Law 93-
188 (87 Stat. 713).
Statement About a Bill Conferring Jurisdiction Upon
the United States District Court in Civil Actions
Brought by the Senate Select Committee on
Presidential Campaign Activities. December 17, 1973
FEW consequences arising out of the
Watergate crimes and improprieties sur-
rounding the Presidential election of 1972
are more grievous than the disposition to
inflict further harm on our political system
through the passage of ill-advised laws.
Such a bill is now on my desk. S. 2641 pro-
vides the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia original jurisdic-
tion over civil action brought by the Sen-
ate Select Committee on Presidential
Campaign Activities. The intent of this
legislation is to circumvent the established
judicial processes by making the court a
vehicle for Congressional actions not en-
visaged in the Constitution.
The reason for the appointment of a
Special Prosecutor within the executive
branch to deal with issues arising out of
the campaign of 1972 was precisely to
avoid the constitutional anomaly which S.
2641 now creates. The White House is
cooperating with the Special Prosecutor,
and the matters falling within his juris-
diction are being adjudicated in the
courts. The control of litigation is the
proper function of the executive branch,
relinquished only in limited and specific
circumstances. The legislation now before
me gives to the Congress a broad general
grant of that authority which properly
resides exclusively in the executive branch,
and provides a precedent for the further
arrogation of authority.
I strongly disagree with this legislation.
S. 2641 is an implicit denial of faith in the
1015
