Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 1 [25]
And so it is at home. We are concerned
about conflict at home. We are concerned,
for example, about the problems that
divide us. They talk about the divisions
between the generations, the divisions be-
tween the races, the divisions between the
religions in this country, and we have
them.
So, we can legislate about some of those
divisions. For example, we pass laws-
laws providing and guaranteeing rights to
equal opportunity. But there is no law
that can legislate compassion, there is no
law that can legislate understanding, there
is no law that can legislate an end to
prejudice. That only comes by changing
the man and changing the woman.
That is what all religion is about, how-
ever we may worship. That is what our
religion is about, those of us who may be
of the Christian religion.
25 Remarks of Welcome to
of the United Kingdom.
Mr. Prime Minister:
The fact that we are meeting on what
is probably the coldest day of the year in
no way measures the warmth of our wel-
come to you today, a welcome not only
personal because of our personal friend-
ship, but also official, because you rep-
resent a great and a good friend and ally
of the United States. And under these
circumstances, it seems most appropriate
that the first state visit being paid to
Washington, at the beginning of this term,
is being paid by you.
Since we last met in Bermuda, a num-
ber of events have occurred which have
had great impact on the chances for
peace
in the world, the visits to Peking and to
Moscow and the recent agreement that
So today, I would simply close with one
thought. There is a lyric from a song I
recall, that runs something like this: "Let
there be peace on Earth and let it begin
with me."
And so, abroad and at home, let that
be our prayer. Let there be peace on
earth and let it begin with each and every
one of us in his own heart.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 a.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
Representative Albert H. Quie of Minne-
sota presided at the 21st annual breakfast,
sponsored by the United States Senate and
House Prayer Breakfast groups.
In his opening words, the President also re-
ferred to Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and Arthur F. Burns, Chair-
man of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System.
Prime Minister Edward Heath
February 1, 1973
has been announced ending the war in
Vietnam.
And now we can turn to tasks that are
enormously important, tasks on which we
have worked together in the past and to
which we can devote even more attention
in the future.
The cornerstone of American policy—
and I think I can say, too, perhaps the
cornerstone of the policy of your coun-
try-in terms of promoting the cause of
peace and freedom and progress in the
world, is the great alliance of which we
are a part. I speak not just to the military
alliance, but of those areas in the economic
and other fields where we cooperate.
The fact that you represent a country
with which the United States has some
65
