Richard Nixon, 1973
May 31 [169]
arena which leave us with memories of lasting
values which will be recalled in future. I
would make an expression of my respect for
your great nations.
It is necessary for every nation to follow the
development of international affairs as closely
as possible. We in Iceland are fully desirous of
doing so. Your meeting and discussions here in
our midst will add further strength to this our
will. I would like to express the sincere wish
that our country may offer you desirable facili-
ties for your discussions, that your stay and
that of your companions will give you pleasure,
and that you will leave us with good memories
of this your visit to Iceland. I would echo the
wish of all people of good will to the effect that
your meeting in Iceland may result in blessings
for the world which we all jointly inhabit.
I drink your toast, Messrs. Presidents, wish-
ing happiness and welfare to yourselves and
your nations.
PRESIDENT POMPIDOU
I am moved indeed by the kind words you
have spoken and by the welcome we have
received in Reykjavik. We already knew how
much your people has always married a deep
sense of hospitality with its virtues of charac-
ter and drive. We witness it again today.
Together with my gratitude, I would like
to express the pleasure and honor I feel in
being here, the first French head of state to
come to Iceland. One could hardly find a
better example of sincere friendship and
cloudless relationship as they exist between our
two countries. They originated in a remote
past, as you know well, Mr. President, being
an archeologist and historian. Since the very
start, they have been placed under the aegis of
cultural relations, and so they remain today.
Is it not symbolic, in this connection, that
Hálldor Laxness, your Nobel Prize winner,
whose works are very popular in France, is
also the author of a remarkable adaptation of
Candide? I could not claim to be complete,
but I shall recall that in the 19th century our
relations were enriched by very close contacts
between ports of Iceland and Brittany. As you
know, Pierre Loti found there the subject of
one of his best books. One could not fail also
to recall the memory of Commandant Charcot
and the part he took in the discovery of Arctic
regions.
Nowadays our exchanges are diversifying.
In the economic, scientific, and technological
fields they develop in a way which, for my part,
I sincerely hope will be continued.
Our foreign policy options also bring us
together. In the last war, Iceland unfortu-
nately lost hundreds of her best sailors. We
were allies in the past, and we still are within
the Atlantic Alliance. In trade, Iceland and
the European Community have signed an
agreement, and I hope that the conditions will
soon be fulfilled for its complete implementa-
tion. Furthermore, we sit side by side in the
Council of Europe, in OECD, the United
Nations, and for several months now at the
Helsinki preparatory multilateral discussions
on the European Conference on Security and
Cooperation. In these several forums, thanks
to a thousand years practice of democracy on
their own soil and to the determination of
their stand, Iceland representatives offer a
constant example of the part a country can
play in the world, whatever its size or power,
a country concerned both with asserting its
own personality and being opened to the
largest cooperation.
Such manifold participation of Iceland in
international life stems from a very old tradi-
tion. Around the year 1000, Leif the Happy,
son of Eric the Red, was the first European to
reach the New World, in North Newfoundland.
About the same period, S..emundur Sigfusson,
one of the most famous scholars in the Sagas
era, was in Paris. Mr. President of the United
States, we have both made conversely Leif's
and Saemundur's journeys in order to meet in
Reykjavik. I dare say it is of excellent augury
for successful talks.
The ocean wind blowing on our meetings at
the Azores a year and a half ago and now in
Iceland is perhaps but the breeze of friendship
uniting our two countries for quite some time
now Born on the battlefields of the War of In-
dependence, consecrated in two World Wars by
the brotherhood of arms, felicitously strength-
ened in the numerous activities of peace, this
friendship is today as fruitful and necessary as
ever.
Doubtless, there are several and swift changes
on the face of the world. Many of them, among
the most decisive ones, are due to your initia-
tive, Mr. President.
As world relations alter, Europe gradually
571
