Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 31 [23]
heal wounds, and I must say that when I
see that the most vigorous criticism or,
shall we say, the least pleasure out of the
peace agreement comes from those that
were the most outspoken advocates of
peace at any price, it makes one realize
whether some want the wounds healed.
We do.
We think we have taken a big step to-
ward ending a long and difficult war
which was not begun while we were here,
and I am not casting any aspersions on
those Presidents who were in office who
can no longer be here to speak for them-
selves, for the causes of the war. I am
simply saying this: that as far as this Ad-
ministration is concerned, we have done
the very best that we can against very
great obstacles, and we finally have
achieved a peace with honor.
I know it gags some of you to write
that phrase, but it is true, and most Ameri-
cans realize it is true, because it would be
peace with dishonor had we-what some
have used, the vernacular-"bugged out"
and allowed what the North Vietnamese
wanted: the imposition of a Communist
government or a coalition Communist
government in the South Vietnamese.
That goal they have failed to achieve.
Consequently, we can speak of peace with
honor and with some pride that it has
been achieved.
Now, I suppose, Mr. Sheldon [Courtney
R. Sheldon, Christian Science Monitor],
that your question with regard to amnesty
may
deal with the problems of healing the
wounds. Certainly I have sympathy for
any individual who has made a mistake.
We have all made mistakes. But also, it
is a rule of life, we all have to pay for
our mistakes.
One of the most moving wires I re-
ceived, of the many thousands that have
come in to the White House since the
peace announcement, was from a man
who was in prison in Michigan, I believe
it is, and he spoke about a group of his
fellow inmates. They are in a work camp,
so I suppose they are being rehabilitated
to come out.
He wrote very emotionally about what
we had done and he felt it was an achieve-
ment they were very proud of. I feel sorry
for that man; on the other hand, it is
not my right, and I should not exercise
such a right, because he so wrote to me,
to say "Now you are forgiven for what
you did."
Now, as far as amnesty is concerned, I
have stated my views, and those views
remain exactly the same. The war is over.
Many Americans paid a very high price
to serve their country, some with their
lives, some as prisoners of war for as long
as 6 to 7 years, and of course, 22 million,
2 to 3 years out of their lives, serving in
a country far away in a war that they
realize had very little support among the
so-called better people, in the media and
the intellectual circles and the rest, which
had very little support, certainly, among
some elements of the Congress-par-
ticularly the United States Senate-but
which fortunately did have support
among a majority of the American people,
who some way, despite the fact that they
were hammered night after night and day
after day with the fact that this was an
immoral war, that America should not be
there, that they should not serve their
country, that morally what they should
do was desert their country.
Certainly as we look at all of that,
there might be a tendency to say now, to
those few hundreds who went to Canada
or Sweden or someplace else and chose
to desert their country, that because they
55
