Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 31 [242]
242 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Deferment
of Federal Pay Increases.
To the Congress of the United States:
At a time when the rising cost of living
is a major concern to us all, the Federal
Government and its employees have a
special obligation to avoid any action
that would needlessly fan the flames of
inflation. This obligation must not be
taken lightly, even in cases when meeting
it involves a reasonable element of self-
denial.
It is in this spirit, and with the knowl-
edge that the action I am taking will
help to hold down the cost of living for
all Americans, that I now recommend a
sixty day deferral in the pending pay ad-
justment for Federal employees.
As required by law, I am also transmit-
ting to the Congress an alternative plan
designed to meet both the rightful needs
of those who serve the Government and
the common interest of the general pub-
lic who must bear the burden of increased
inflation.
Under this plan, a pay increase for all
Federal employees based upon an appro-
priate comparability adjustment would
become effective on the first pay period
beginning on or after December 1, 1973.
The level of the comparability adjust-
ment will be determined during the next
few weeks. My "agent" on Federal pay,
the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Chairman of
the Civil Service Commission, has recom-
mended an average pay increase of 4.77
percent. This recommendation is now be-
ing reviewed by my advisory committee
on pay, and this committee will make its
own recommendations to me in late Sep-
August 31, 1973
tember. At that time, I will make my de-
cision on the appropriate comparability
adjustment.
I regret asking for this postponement of
a Federal pay increase but there can be
no doubt of its necessity. At a critical time
in the economic health of our Nation,
when many are being called on to make
sacrifices in order to hold down inflation,
no one should enjoy special immunity.
Thus far labor and management in the
private sector have done their share by
acting with commendable restraint in
agreeing upon new wage increases. As one
of the largest groups of workers in the
country, Federal employees can do no
less. In fact, Federal employees have a
unique role to play in the fight against
inflation because every dollar of their
pay comes out of the Federal budget. It
is especially important this year, as we
seek a balanced, noninflationary budget,
that Federal spending be held to
minimum.
I urge the Congress to support this
action, not because it is politically expedi-
ent or the easy thing to do, but because
it is in the best interest of all Americans.
The alternative plan is attached.
The White House,
August 31, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
FEDERAL PAY COMPARABILITY
ALTERNATIVE PLAN
In consideration of the economic con-
ditions affecting the general welfare, I
hereby transmit to the Congress the fol-
729
