Richard Nixon, 1973
[255]
Sept. 11
it really under control, but we have turned
the corner. The numbers, the statistics,
are beginning to be better.
Take, for example, drug-related crime
in New York City, Washington, D.C., two
cities which we followed very, very closely.
There has been a reduction. But as we look
at the whole situation, what we all have to
understand is that like any problem as
serious as this, it is not enough to attack
it just on one front, your front, the one
that you think is important. It must be
attacked on all fronts, and in this case,
that is exactly what we are doing.
We place, therefore, great emphasis
upon the need to continue to cut off the
source of supply from foreign countries,
of heroin and other hard drugs flowing
into this country. We intend to continue
to strengthen our law enforcement ca-
pacity, and we urge you at local govern-
ment to do likewise, to deal with those
who are the pushers and those who start
people on the long road, the disastrous
road of drug addiction.
We intend to continue the program of
treatment in which so many of you are
interested, and we intend to continue in
our program of education. But finally, it
all comes down to the individual.
In this room are judges, law enforce-
ment officials, educators, and other offi-
cials from all over the United States, and
you would not be here if all we were talk-
ing about and the results of your work
were simply turning around the statistics
in this field.
You are here because you care about
one person, one young boy, one young
girl, maybe a teenager who, but for what
you did or will do in the years ahead, could
become addicted to drugs, and not only
become addicted to drugs, possibly then
going from there into a life of crime.
If what you do and if, as a result of this
conference, we are able to save one of
those individuals, this conference is worth-
while, and we would like all of you to
think that way. I would like for you to,
because I think of each of you in the work
that you do, whether it is in stopping the
source of supply, whether it is in the field
of education, whether it is in the field of
enforcing the law, or whether it is in the
field of treatment, I consider each of you,
individually, indispensable to this total
program.
Now, the program has one of those
public relations names, it is called Out-
reach, a very good name; and we are out-
reaching, certainly, in order to deal with
this problem. Each of you plays an enor-
mously important role, and for that rea-
son, I want you to know that the whole
country is in your debt. We are going to
win this battle. We have turned the corner,
but, having turned the corner, we are
going to go on down this road until the
whole Nation realizes that drug addiction
in the United States is under control.
So with that, I conclude my part in
the program and turn over the balance of
it to the experts from whom you will hear.
Dr. [Robert L.] DuPont, who is the Di-
rector of our Special Action Office for
Drug Abuse Prevention, will follow me
on the platform, and John Bartels, who
will be nominated to be the director of
Drug Enforcement Administration with-
in the Federal Government will also be on
your program today. Ambassador Hand-
ley, I know, will also be addressing you,
and a number of other experts from the
State and local level.
So thank you for coming to this con-
ference. I suppose when I said-used the
word, this "trip" was necessary, that could
be taken in a number of ways. [Laughter]
789
