[43] Feb. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
commitment to conservation, restoration,
and renewal, let us resolve to make Amer-
ica even more beautiful for the genera-
tions to come.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE The President spoke at 12:06 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House The ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day
44 State of the Union Message to the Congress on
Natural Resources and the Environment.
February 15, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
With the opening of a new Congress
and the beginning of a new Presidential
term come fresh opportunities for achieve-
ment in America. To help us consider
more adequately the very special chal-
lenges of this new year, I am presenting
my 1973 State of the Union Message in
a number of sections.
Two weeks ago I sent the first of those
sections to the Congress an overview re-
porting that "the basic state of our Union
today is sound, and full of promise."
Today I wish to report to the Congress
on the state of our natural resources and
environment. It is appropriate that this
topic be first of our substantive policy dis-
cussions in the State of the Union pres-
entation, since nowhere in our national
affairs do we have more gratifying
progress-nor more urgent, remaining
problems.
There was a time when Americans took
our natural resources largely for granted.
For example, President Lincoln observed
in his State of the Union message for 1862
that "A nation may be said to consist
of its territory, its people, and its laws. The
territory is the only part which is of cer-
tain durability."
In recent years, however, we have come
to realize that our "territory"-that is,
our land, air, water, minerals, and the
like-is not of "certain durability" after
all. We have learned that these natural re-
sources are fragile and finite, and that
many have been seriously damaged or
despoiled.
When we came to office in 1969, we
tackled this problem with all the power
at our command. Now there is encourag-
ing evidence that the United States has
moved away from the environmental
crisis that could have been and toward a
new era of restoration and renewal. To-
day, in 1973, I can report to the Congress
that we are well on the way to winning
the war against environmental degrada-
tion-well on the way to making our
peace with nature.
YEARS OF PROGRESS
While I am disappointed that the 92nd
Congress failed to act upon 19 of my key
natural resources and environment pro-
posals, I am pleased to have signed many
of the proposals I supported into law
during the past four years. They have in-
cluded air quality legislation, strengthen-
ed water quality and pesticide control
legislation, new authorities to control noise
and ocean dumping, regulations to pre-
vent oil and other spills in our ports and
waterways, and legislation establishing
major national recreation areas at Amer-
94
