Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
a new opportunity for Alliance diplomacy
in 1969. But important political problems
also emerged.
-International diplomacy is still con-
ducted by nation states. The Euro-
pean members of NATO have
regional security interests, which they
must accord priority, and each ally
has a national stake in European
security. Increasingly in recent years,
however, individual European states
have pursued their bilateral relations
with the Soviet Union as well as with
other members of the Warsaw Pact.
-The United States has vital interests
outside of Europe, and must deal
bilaterally with the Soviet Union on
strategic matters and on many global
issues. Each member of NATO, how-
ever, has an interest in, and is affected
by, the development of U.S.-Soviet
relations; our allies wish to influence
our relations with the Soviet Union
to strengthen their own security. At
times our allies have urged the United
States to be more flexible in ap-
proaches to the Soviet Union; in
other periods, they have criticized us
for moving too fast or too far in
relations with Moscow.
In 1969, the NATO allies were per-
suaded that new initiatives were required
but, in the wake of the invasion of
Czechoslovakia, were uncertain whether
to renew contacts with the East. Some
allies regarded a European Security Con-
ference as a possible starting point; others
urged negotiations on force reductions.
The United States was preparing for
strategic arms limitation talks. Unless we
would agree on a common strategy, no
substantial progress could be expected that
did not strain our unity. Accordingly, in
April 1969, I urged the Alliance to revive
the process of close consultations and
committed the United States to continu-
ing Alliance review of SALT. Consulta-
tions would address certain general tasks.
First, we needed to identify the specific
sources of tensions that might be resolved.
Second, we had to agree on how to
manage the priorities and interrelation-
ship among major issues: those of pri-
mary concern to one country, for example
West Germany's Eastern policy; those of
regional concern, such as mutual force
reductions and a European security con-
ference; and those of international con-
cern, such as SALT.
Third, we had to recognize that issues
would be dealt with by different coun-
tries in different forums. Such diversity
required an essential harmonization of
purposes as well as a degree of national
autonomy.
Initial Progress. The United States
urged that the Alliance take the initiative
in proposing negotiations on Berlin as an
essential first step. Berlin was a natural
starting point for several reasons. It was a
source of recurrent confrontations. If the
Soviet Union chose, it could continue
exploiting the vulnerability of West Ber-
lin's access routes across East Germany to
exert pressure against West Germany and
the three Western Powers. On the other
hand, there was no objective reason why
the Soviet Union could not permit prac-
tical improvements in travel to Berlin
if, as it claimed, it had a serious interest
in a relaxation of European tensions. If
we could not resolve this one specific is-
sue, there was little prospect of resolving
broader security questions.
Thus, the negotiations over Berlin were
an initial opportunity to explore whether
East-West relations could move away from
the rigidities of the Cold War. Moreover,
411
