Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
-a territorial sea with a maximum
breadth of 12 nautical miles, together
with and conditional on
-a right of free transit through and
over straits used for international
navigation.
We firmly believe that 12 miles repre-
sents the only figure on which general
agreement among nations is possible, and
there has been growing consensus on this
view in the international community.
Many straits used for international navi-
gation are less than 24 miles wide. Twelve-
mile territorial seas might thus overlap.
Accordingly, the United States has made
a provision for a specific right of "free
transit" a condition to our agreement to
a 12-mile territorial sea. This would pre-
serve the right of transit through and
over international straits for ships and air-
craft. The U.S. proposal is designed to
accommodate the concerns of nations
bordering such straits with respect to traf-
fic arrangements and pollution control.
Until the right of free transit is estab-
lished, the prevailing law in international
straits six miles wide or less will continue
to be that of "innocent passage." In straits
wider than six miles, the United States
position continues to be that high seas
freedoms exist. Under the 1958 Geneva
Convention on the Territorial Sea and
Contiguous Zone, aircraft do not have a
right of overflight and submarines exer-
cising innocent passage must navigate on
the surface. Moreover, coastal states may
give their own interpretation to “inno-
cent"
passage. In these circumstances, the
right of innocent passage is no longer
adequate to ensure free transit through
and over international straits.
Marine Resources. All coastal states
have strong interests in the living and non-
living resources off their coast. Accord-
ingly, any new law of the sea convention
should provide for certain coastal state
economic rights beyond the territorial
sea. But the nature and extent of those
rights is fundamental and must be care-
fully defined.
The regime for the deep seabed area
beyond national jurisdiction, which is the
common heritage of all mankind, should
provide developing as well as other coun-
tries with the opportunity to take part in
and benefit from deep seabed exploitation.
It should also provide reasonable and
secure investment conditions for countries
whose capital and technology make such
exploitation possible.
With respect to marine resources gen-
erally, the United States is willing to agree
to broad coastal state economic jurisdic-
tion beyond the territorial sea as part of
a satisfactory overall law of the sea settle-
ment. But this management jurisdiction
over mineral resources and fisheries should
be tempered by international standards
that respect the interests of other states
and the international community.
Internationally-agreed limitations on
seabed resources should include:
-Standards to prevent unreasonable
interference with other uses of the
ocean, to protect the oceans from pol-
lution, and to safeguard the integrity
of investment;
-Sharing of revenues for international
community purposes; and
-Compulsory third-party settlement of
disputes to help reduce the potential
for conflict.
Effective harvesting of the oceans' fish-
eries resources, consistent with sound con-
servation, will be required if the nations
of the world are to realize the potential of
fish as a major source of protein-rich food.
With both a coastal and distant water
507
