Richard Nixon, 1973
June 8 [173]
so and where it will be effective, to hold
down the inflation. But putting it in a
more positive way, when we consider why
prices, for example for food, have gone
up and what we can do about it, we can
see that this is not something to look upon
as an enormous burden, but as an
opportunity.
All over the world today people are liv-
ing better. Oh, there are many terribly
poor people in the world, including some
in the United States, but they live better.
As a result, the demand for meat, the
demand for grain, the demand for every-
thing has gone up worldwide.
The United States, instead of talking
about surpluses, as we used to just 5 or 6
years ago, now is talking about shortages
in all of these areas. But it is good that
people demand more. The only answer,
then, is: How do we produce more?
Let me give you an example. I have
traveled a great deal in Latin America,
the great countries there like Brazil and
Argentina. And what I found is this, as I
traveled in those great countries: Their
leaders have told me that they now have a
population of about 250 million people,
and yet they have hunger in many parts
of their country, like in northern Brazil.
On the other hand, if the genius of the
American agricultural system, our ability
not only to grow but to distribute, could
be communicated to Latin America, that
continent could support 600 million peo-
ple. And so it is around the world.
What I want to say, and what we have
to bear in mind, is this, and all of you, I
think, will be particularly interested in
this technological factor: The long-term
answer to the problem of inflation is to
produce more. In the field of food, we
can and we must do so. But what we must
remember is that America here leads the
way, and therefore, what our farmers do,
what our distributors do, what we are able
to communicate to other countries, can
answer this worldwide need for food,
which is a demand which we should all
welcome, because it means that less peo-
ple in the future will have the problem of
hunger.
This is no time for any Malthusian
pessimism about the future. There is a
problem, but we have the means to deal
with it.
I come to a second problem that you
have heard about, the energy crisis, the
problem of whether we are going to have
to ration gasoline, the problem of whether,
if you live in the Northeast, whether or
not you are going to have fuel oil, and so
forth down the line. Looking at the energy
problem and why it exists, that problem
does not exist because of a fall-off in pro-
duction; it exists because the people of the
world, including the people of the United
States, are living better. They need more
energy. They need more gasoline. They
need more oil. They need energy from
other sources that must be developed,
whether it is in the nuclear field, the new
use of energy from coal, others that the
experts in this class probably are far more
familiar with than I am.
What I am saying here is that when we
look at the demand, that is a positive fac-
tor. One personal example. In 1953, when
Mrs. Nixon and I first visited Asia, we
were in 19 countries and we were there
in the very hot season. There was only
one air-conditioned room. I remember it
very well. It was the bedroom of the
Ambassador in Bangkok, and we spent a
lot of time in there. Otherwise, there were
none.
Now it is difficult to go to Asia and to
stay in a hotel, or even a residence, which
581
