[108] Apr. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
In reconsidering this bill, the Congress
should bear in mind that my fiscal year
1974 budget already provides $345 mil-
lion in Rural Development Act loan funds
for water supply systems in rural areas
which will help local communities borrow
at favorable interest rates. In addition, the
Environmental Protection Agency will be
providing grants of $5 billion in fiscal
years 1973 and 1974 for waste disposal
facilities across the country. These grants
will be awarded in accordance with State-
established needs, and may be used in
rural areas for high priority projects.
I recognize that despite these programs,
some rural communities in need of sewer
assistance may still have financing diffi-
culties because of their inability to borrow
at reasonable rates. Fortunately, a solution
to this problem exists.
If my veto of this bill is sustained, I
will use my authority under the Rural
Development Act to provide qualified
rural communities with loans not only for
water facilities but also for the develop-
ment of sewage facilities. These loans for
sewer services will be available in fiscal
years 1973 and 1974. This step-taken at
a fraction of the cost to the taxpayer re-
quired by H.R. 3298-will permit quali-
fied small communities to compete for
credit on reasonable terms.
Taken in conjunction with other meas-
ures already planned, this loan provision
should provide sufficient Federal support
to those communities which critically need
water and sewage systems without shat-
tering the limits of sound fiscal policy. I
therefore urge all thoughtful, responsible
Members of the Congress to join with
me in preventing this costly, unwise and
probably unconstitutional measure from
becoming law.
In upholding my veto of the Voca-
tional Rehabilitation Act earlier this week,
the Congress demonstrated that it can
set aside partisan political considerations
in the interest of America's economic well-
being. I urge the Members of the Con-
gress to hold to that same resolve in
reconsidering this second piece of infla
tionary, budget-breaking legislation.
Together, we can hold down taxes and
inflation for all of the American people.
Together, we can also create a climate in
which local and State governments will
have both the incentive and the means
to meet their legitimate responsibilities
without undue interference from Wash-
ington and without a proliferation of
costly and unnecessary Federal programs
such as the one which H.R. 3298 would
re-establish.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 5, 1973-
NOTE: The text of the message was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the program and the transcript
of a news briefing on the President's veto by
Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget.
The House of Representatives sustained the
President's veto on April 10, 1973-
256
