Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 15 [330]
achieved the goal of employment with-
out war in the United States, and that is
a goal worth achieving.
And so, we could stop here. We could
say, a good year, 1973; therefore, real
estate is a good investment because it is a
good year, because of what has happened
abroad, because of what happened at
home in our economy, with the economy
moving up.
But then, we also have to put in the
balance those things that people are
thinking about, that you are thinking
about, which tend to indicate that there
are minus sides of a year as well as plus
sides, which will always be the case in
any year.
There is, for example, the problem of
inflation, and I know that in your case
it hits it in the case of interest rates. I
know that in your case, you are concerned
about the downturn in housing starts. All
that I can say is that this Administration
is going to continue to fight the battle of
inflation as we have fought it in the past.
We finally have begun to make prog-
ress on the food price front. We believe
we are going to be making more progress
on the interest rate front, but the main
thing is―lend now and borrow later, that
is what I would suggest you to do [laugh-
ter]-but one of the main things that you
can do that can help, apart from comply-
ing with our programs of controls where
they happen to affect you, and I assume
that you who are in other business than
real estate may find areas where you are
affected by the control system, remember
this: A major factor that drives up prices
is when your Federal Government spends
more than it needs to and spends more
than it takes in in taxes.
Help us in the battle against Govern-
ment spending. Let's not have the Gov-
ernment spend down.
And incidentally, I say this in no parti-
san sense, because, believe me, Democrats
as well as Republicans in the House and
the Senate have joined in this battle, and
we have won most of them. But we need
for them to hear from back home, because
they always hear from those that want to
spend more; they seldom hear from those
who realize that when you do spend more
in a way that raises prices, it means that
your busting the Federal budget makes
it impossible to balance the family
budget.
You can get that message across, be-
cause you know how to talk quite directly
to people, as I have pointed out on sev-
eral occasions.
There is then the problem of energy.
I discussed that at some length a few
nights ago on television. I will not go
into it in any detail because I am sure
you
have read about it, thought about it,
wondered how serious it is.
Let me capsule it very simply in this
way: Before the Mideast war broke out,
we had a serious energy problem in the
United States. The reason the problem
was serious was not because our produc-
tion was lower, but because our demands
were so much higher.
It is the fact that, for example, more
people have television, more people use
more lights, more heat, there are more
cars using more gasoline. In fact, the
United States, with 7 percent of the
world's people, uses 30 percent of the
world's energy, and so, consequently, it
was a question, a serious problem in the
spring of this year, that was arising with
regard to energy.
We had to get more sources. It was in
937
