[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
both of development and environmental
protection would be borne by the private
lessee.
GEOTHERMAL LEASES
At the time of my earlier Energy Mes-
sage, I also directed the Department of
the Interior to prepare a leasing program
for the development of geothermal energy
on Federal lands. The regulations and
final environmental analysis for such a
program should be completed by late
spring of this year.
If the analysis indicates that we can
proceed in an environmentally acceptable
manner, I expect leasing of geothermal
fields on Federal lands to begin soon
thereafter.
The use of geothermal energy could be
of significant importance to many of our
western areas, and by supplying a part of
the western energy demand, could re-
lease other energy resources that would
otherwise have to be used. Today, for in-
stance, power from the Geysers geother-
mal field in California furnishes about
one-third of the electric power of the city
of San Francisco.
New technologies in locating and
producing geothermal energy are now
under development. During the coming
fiscal year, the National Science Founda-
tion and the Geological Survey will
intensify their research and development
efforts in this field.
COAL
Coal is our most abundant and least
costly domestic source of energy. Never-
theless, at a time when energy shortages
loom on the horizon, coal provides less
than 20 percent of our energy demands,
and there is serious danger that its use will
be reduced even further. If this reduction
occurs, we would have to increase our oil
imports rapidly, with all the trade and
security problems this would entail.
Production of coal has been limited not
only by competition from natural gas—a
competition which has been artificially in-
duced by Federal price regulation-but
also by emerging environmental concerns
and mine health and safety requirements.
In order to meet environmental stand-
ards, utilities have shifted to natural gas
and imported low-sulphur fuel oil. The
problem is compounded by the fact that
some low-sulphur coal resources are not
being developed because of uncertainty
about Federal and State mining regula-
tions.
I urge that highest national priority be
given to expanded development and
utilization of our coal resources. Present
and potential users who are able to choose
among energy sources should consider the
national interest as they make their choice.
Each decision against coal increases petro-
leum or gas consumption, compromising
our national self-sufficiency and raising
the cost of meeting our energy needs.
In my State of the Union Message on
Natural Resources and the Environment
earlier this year, I called for strong legis-
lation to protect the environment from
abuse caused by mining. I now repeat
that call. Until the coal industry knows the
mining rules under which it will have to
operate, our vast reserves of low-sulphur
coal will not be developed as rapidly as
they should be and the under-utilization
of such coal will persist.
The Clean Air Act of 1970, as amend-
ed, requires that primary air quality
standards those related to health-must
be met by 1975, while more stringent sec-
ondary standards-those related to the
308
