Richard Nixon, 1973
July 25 [217]
I am sure, in the hearts of all of the Amer-
ican people as he visits our country.
Perhaps I might be permitted a per-
sonal reminiscence on this occasion, be-
cause as we stepped into this magnificent
Embassy with the old and the new
blended-the old Persia, the new Iran-
all these rooms that are so splendid in
their appearances, as we all enjoyed this
magnificent dinner with all of these
famous dishes from Iran, which we are
familiar with, those of us who had the
privilege to visit that country, and as we
enjoyed the unexampled hospitality of
our friends from Iran, we realized sev-
eral things, and I realized and would like
to share with you a couple of points in
particular.
I reminded our guests last night that it
was 20 years ago, almost to the day, per-
haps a few months later, that Mrs. Nixon
and I, after a very long journey through
some very warm places in Asia, the Far
East, we finally arrived in Iran.
It
It was a wonderful visit in every way.
was the end of a difficult time for Iran
and the beginning of a great new time.
There were those who were not sure it
would be a great new time, but our Am-
bassador then, Loy Henderson, one of the
great Ambassadors, told me it would be,
and I know that the Emperor felt that it
would be, and I remember that the father
of a now Ambassador to the United States,
the former Foreign Minister and former
Ambassador to Britain, General Zahedi,
gave me confidence that it would be.
But only 2 months after the great diffi-
culty, the traumatic experience that Iran
had passed through, one might wonder as
to what the future would be. I had great
confidence after our brief stay there, and
that confidence was because in the people
that I saw, the leaders that I saw, and par-
ticularly the confidence that I had in the
young Emperor who, because of his sin-
cerity and his devotion to his people, and
his vision about the future.
I think everyone in this room who was
not born to royalty must wonder how it
would be, and all of us would agree that
to be born in a royal family perhaps poses
the greatest challenge that life can pose,
because it would be so easy just to live
that royal life that one receives without
having given anything for it and enjoy it,
receive the adulation of the crowds, and
end it without contributing much or, per-
haps, taking away much from the people
among whom he or she works.
But Iran was blessed with the fact that
the
young man who became its Emperor
was not that kind of royalty. He was a
man who said very early-he wrote his
autobiography—that peace should not be
just the absence of war, it should be crea-
tive peace.
He was one who wrote very early, he
from royalty, from monarchy, said, “Iran
needs a new revolution." And over a pe-
riod of 20 years, what he has done, he,
with the assistance of so many of his col-
leagues in this room from Iran and also
with the support of a splendid people, 31
million strong, have created a new, strong,
vital nation there. New and strong and
vital in one sense, but with its roots very,
very deep in history, over 2,500 years.
And it is out of such things that great
nations are built. Leadership, which our
host tonight, the Emperor, represents, and
a people with a sense of mission and des-
tiny and also with a great history behind
them which they must live up to.
These are some of the thoughts that
came to me as I sat here tonight, 20 years
later, here in this bit of territory of Iran
in the United States of America. And,
665
