Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
nor Askew of Florida addressed this group
and recalled the words of Benjamin
Franklin. When leaving the Constitutional
Convention he was asked, "What have
you given us, sir, a monarch or a repub-
lic?" Franklin answered, "A republic, sir,
you can keep it."
if
Mr. President, in the prevailing pessi-
mism of the lingering matter we call
Watergate, can we keep that republic, sir,
and how?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Quinn, I
would certainly not be standing here an-
swering these questions unless I had a firm
belief that we could keep the republic,
that we must keep it, not only for our-
selves but for the whole world. I recognize
that because of mistakes that were made-
and I must take responsibility for those
mistakes-whether in the campaign or
during the course of an administration,
that there are those who wonder whether
this republic can survive. But I also know
that the hopes of the whole world for
peace, not only now but in the years to
come, rests in the United States of Amer-
ica. And I can assure you that as long as
I am physically able to handle the posi-
tion to which I was elected, and then
reelected last November, I am going to
work for the cause of peace in the world,
for the cause of prosperity without war
and without inflation at home, and also
to the best of my ability to restore con-
fidence in the White House and in the
President himself. It is a big job, but I
think it can be done, and I intend to do it.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[3] Q. Mr. President, I am George
Gill of the Louisville Courier-Journal.
Would you please tell us, sir, when did you
personally discover that two of the nine
subpoenaed White House tapes did not
exist, and why did you apparently delay
for a matter of weeks disclosing this matter
to the Federal court and to the public?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the first time
that the fact that there were no recordings
of the two conversations to which you
referred that they did not exist-came
to my attention on approximately Sep-
tember 29 or September 30.
At that time, I was informed only that
they might not exist, because a search was
not made, because seven of the nine re-
cordings requested did exist, and my sec-
retary, listening to them for me and
making notes for me, proceeded to go
through those seven tapes.
I should point out, incidentally, that
the two which did not exist, in which there
were no tape recordings of the conversa-
tions, were not ones that were requested
by the Senate committee, and con-
sequently, we felt that we should go for-
ward with the ones that were requested
by both the Senate committee and the
others.
When we finally determined that they
could not be in existence was on Octo-
ber 26 of this year. And we learned it then
when I directed the White House Coun-
sel, Mr. Buzhardt, to question the Secret
Service operatives as to what had hap-
pened to make sure that there might not
be a possibility, due to the fact that the
mechanism was not operating properly,
that we might find them in some other
place.
He questioned them for 2 days and re-
ported on the 27th that he could not find
them. He then, having had a date made—
and he asked for the date sooner with
Judge Sirica, he asked for a date on
Thursday, you may recall I pointed that
out in my press conference on the 26th-
947
