Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
give them prompt and
consideration.
favorable
This legislation would help us to:
-Negotiate for a more open and
equitable world trading system;
-Deal effectively with rapid increases
in imports that disrupt domestic markets
and displace American workers;
-Strengthen our ability to meet unfair
competitive practices;
-Manage our trade policy more effi-
ciently and use it more effectively to deal
with special needs such as our balance of
payments and inflation problems; and
-Take advantage of new trade oppor-
tunities while enhancing the contribution
trade can make to the development of
poorer countries.
STRENGTHENING THE STRUCTURE OF
PEACE
The world is embarked today on a pro-
found and historic movement away from
confrontation and toward negotiation in
resolving international differences. In-
creasingly in recent years, countries have
come to see that the best way of advancing
their own interests is by expanding peace-
ful contacts with other peoples. We have
thus begun to erect a durable structure of
peace in the world from which all nations
can benefit and in which all nations have
a stake.
This structure of peace cannot be
strong, however, unless it encompasses in-
ternational economic affairs. Our progress
toward world peace and stability can be
significantly undermined by economic
conflicts which breed political tensions
and weaken security ties. It is imperative,
therefore, that we promptly turn our nego-
tiating efforts to the task of resolving
problems in the economic arena.
My trade reform proposals would equip
us to meet this challenge. They would help
us in creating a new economic order which
both reflects and reinforces the progress
we have made in political affairs. As I said
to the Governors of the International
Monetary Fund last September, our com-
mon goal should be to "set in place an
economic structure that will help and not
hinder the world's historic movement to-
ward peace."
TOWARD A NEW INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORDER
The principal institutions which now
govern the world economy date from the
close of World War II. At that time, the
United States enjoyed a dominant posi-
tion. Our industrial and agricultural sys-
tems had emerged from the war virtually
intact. Our substantial reserves enabled
us to finance a major share of interna-
tional reconstruction. We gave generously
of our resources and our leadership in
helping the world economy get back on
track.
The result has been a quarter century of
remarkable economic achievement-and
profound economic change. In place of a
splintered and shattered Europe stands a
new and vibrant European Community.
In place of a prostrate Japan stands one of
the free world's strongest economies. In
all parts of the world new economic pat-
terns have developed and new economic
energies have been released.
These successes have now brought the
world into a very different period. Amer-
ica is no longer the sole, dominating
economic power. The new era is one of
growing economic interdependence,
shared economic leadership, and dramatic
economic change.
259
