[264] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
legislation which would allow investors
a tax credit on the interest they earn when
they put their money into residential
mortgages. This proposal would make in-
vestment in housing loans more attractive
in two ways: first, it would make them
more attractive to those institutions which
traditionally have provided mortgage
money; and second, it would give organi-
zations which pool mortgages a better
chance to compete for funds in the so-
called "secondary market"--from pension
funds, insurance companies, various State
institutions and the like.
Under my proposal, a tax credit of up
to 3½ percent would be provided on in-
terest earnings to financial institutions
which invest a certain percentage of their
investment portfolio in residential mort-
gages. The greater the proportion of the
portfolio invested in mortgages, the
higher the tax credit on interest earned
by all the mortgages in the portfolio.
When at least 70 percent of a portfolio
was invested in mortgages, the tax credit
on the interest those mortgages earn
would be 32 percent-the equivalent, at
current interest levels, of an additional in-
terest yield of more than one-half of one
percent.
4. Furthering the development of pri-
rate mortgage insurance companies.
Another significant proposal in the
credit area concerns private mortgage
insurance companies. These companies
perform a function similar to that of the
FHA, the VA, and the FmHA-they in-
sure residential mortgages with lower
downpayments and for longer terms than
would ordinarily be available. However,
the premiums they charge for such insur-
ance are much lower than those of the
Federal agencies Such private mortgage
insurance companies have become a sig
nificant factor in the housing market in
recent years and we should encourage
their continued development.
To help further this objective, I rec-
ommend that the Congress--along with
the Administration--consider ways of al-
lowing private mortgage insurance com-
panies to purchase inexpensive Federal
reinsurance. To this end, I will submit
legislation which can provide a basis for
this discussion. Such insurance would
provide added protection to the owner
of a mortgage and could speed the ac-
ceptance of private mortgage insurance.
especially in secondary markets. It could
thus make available even more sources
of low downpayment, long-term home fi-
nancing for prospective home buyers.
II. THE CHALLENGE OF LOW-INCOME
HOUSING
Since 1937. the Federal Government
has tried to help low income families by
providing housing for them. Over the
years, nearly $90 billion of the taxpayers'
money has been spent or committed for
public housing projects and other subsi-
dized housing programs.
These programs have been particular-
ly active during the past few years. Since
1969, the Federal Government has sub-
sidized nearly 1.6 million units of new
housing and over 400,000 units of exist-
ing and rehabilitated housing. These 2
million units will cost taxpayers an es-
timated $2.5 billion in each of the next
few years and could cost us close to $50
billion altogether.
806
