Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 10 [289]
289 Remarks on Presenting the National Medal of
Science Awards for 1973.
Dr. Stever, Members of the Cabinet,
Members of the Congress, and particu-
larly all of our distinguished guests and
your friends:
On this occasion, we make the science
awards, and it gives the President, who
has the honor of making these awards on
behalf of all the American people, an
opportunity to say a word about a subject
that he claims no particular expertise in
and, for that reason, has great admiration
for those who are truly expert, as these
various citations will indicate.
As I looked over the list of the award
winners, I realized some things about sci-
ence and scientists that sometimes we for-
get. First, the award winners cover this
country geographically; that means that
all of the brains don't happen to be in
New England or, for that matter, in Cali-
fornia. Because, as you will find out, there
are award winners from California, from
Texas, from Florida, from Illinois, and of
course, from MIT in New England.
Also, it will be noted that, when we read
the biographies of the various award win-
ners that we realize another truth about
science and about all greatness, and that
is its universality. The tendency sometime
for us to be jingoistic in this country is
quickly washed away, as it was recently
when we swore in, in this room, the new
Secretary of State-the first time in the
history of America that an individual
who was not born in America was Secre-
tary of State. And four of our award win-
ners today of the 11 are naturalized
Americans, which shows how fortunate
we are in this Nation to draw from all of
October 10, 1973
the brains of the world in creating our
scientific leadership.
Another point that made a very great
impression upon me as I read about the
award winners and their citations was the
singular fact that for the first time in
which these awards are being made, all
of them are in the field of what I would
call peaceful activities.
We meet at a time when a very dan-
gerous situation exists in the Mideast,
when a war rages there, that the United
States is trying its best to play a mediat-
ing role and bring the fighting to an end
and then, beyond that, to help to build not
just a temporary but a lasting peace
for
the people in that very troubled section
of the world.
When we look back to the year 1959
when these awards were first established
and the years since then, we find that over
50 percent of the budget of the Federal
Government for science comes from the
Department of Defense. We also must
recognize that through the years it has
been necessary for the scientific commu-
nity to make a contribution in the area
of defense, and I could only remind this
audience that unless the United States
were strong and its strength were credible
at the present time, we would not be able
to play the role that we believe is a peace-
making role in the Middle East or in any
other part of the world.
And so the scientific community need
not be in any way ashamed of the role it
has played in helping to develop the de-
fense capabilities—and I use the word
"defense" rather than "offensive"-the
857
