Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
crisis with new confidence, power, and
responsibilities. This fact in itself was a
new political reality for the subcontinent
and for all nations concerned with South
Asia's future. For the nations of that
region, the question was how India would
use its power. For the nations outside the
region, the question was what the rela-
tionship of this power would be to that of
other powers in the world.
Last year I explained that the United
States was prepared for a serious dialogue
with India on the future of our relations.
We have taken steps in that direction in
1972. The United States respects India as
a major country. We are prepared to treat
India in accordance with its new stature
and responsibilities, on the basis of
reciprocity.
Because India is a major country, her
actions on the world stage necessarily af-
fect us and our interests.
—India's relationships with the major
powers are for it to decide, and we
have no interest in inhibiting their
growth. However, we have a natural
concern that India not be locked into
exclusive ties with major countries
directed against us or against other
countries with whom we have rela-
tionships which we value.
-There have been serious differences
over U.S. policy in Indochina. With
the ending of the war, that problem is
reduced, and we feel that India, as a
chairman of the International Con-
trol Commission for Laos and Cam-
bodia and a country with a stake in
Asian peace, has an opportunity to
play an important positive role in
consolidating a just peace in Indo-
china.
-India's policy toward its neighbors on
the subcontinent and other countries
in nearby parts of Asia is now an im-
portant determinant of regional
stability, which is of interest to us.
-Other aspects of Indian policy affect
us, and we have had our natural con-
cerns. We have expressed un-
happiness when Indian leaders have
used the United States as a scape-
goat in domestic disputes, which does
not serve our common objective of
improved relations.
Fundamentally, I believe that the
United States and a non-aligned India
have no significant conflicting interests.
The United States has an interest in
India's independence, and a natural pref-
erence to see democratic institutions
flourish. We share an interest in the
and stability of Bangladesh.
And as India and Pakistan move toward
more normal relations, external military
supply loses its relevance to the politics
of the subcontinent. In short, the United
States wants to see a subcontinent that is
independent, progressive, and peaceful.
We believe India shares these objectives-
and this can be the firm basis of a con-
structive relationship.
-The United States will not join in
any groupings or pursue any policies
directed against India. Our normali-
zation of relations with the People's
Republic of China is not directed
against India or inconsistent with our
desire to enjoy good relations with
India. The United States and China
declared in the Shanghai Communi-
que that we both saw attempts at col-
lusion, hegemony, or spheres of
interest as inconsistent with peace in
Asia. I believe that on this principle
a constructive pattern of relations is
457
