[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
light on their eagerness to complete
the agreement rapidly. Our South
Vietnamese friends would have mini-
mum time to prepare for the new
situation. It also made more impera-
tive the need to tighten up certain
aspects of the agreement, including
the supervisory mechanisms. Failure
to settle on international machinery
would mean that any violations
would occur in an unsupervised con-
text.
-At the very time we were conducting
delicate consultations with our ally,
Hanoi's leadership made public com-
ments suggesting the possibility of a
coalition government, which both
sides had firmly agreed was not en-
visaged in the settlement. These and
other ambiguities had to be put to
rest.
-We ran into opposition in Saigon.
Our South Vietnamese ally wanted
many changes in the agreement, and
they wanted more time for consulta-
tions. We were not prepared to ac-
cept all their proposals, but their
deep concerns and the other factors
made it essential to take a little more
time. We believed a country that had
suffered so much was entitled to have
its views fully considered. We made
clear, however, that we would main-
tain the integrity of the draft settle-
ment.
On October 26, Hanoi publicly re-
vealed the outlines of the agreement we
were negotiating and repeated its insist-
ence that we sign by the end of the
month. We had agreed to keep the con-
tent of the negotiations private so as not
to jeopardize their outcome. The North
Vietnamese disclosures, however, gave us
the choice of either breaking off negotia-
tions or affirming our commitment to the
framework of the settlement while describ-
ing the types of changes still needed. We
chose the latter course and publicly out-
lined our position in response to North
Vietnam's propaganda offensive.
Our primary audiences were Hanoi and
Saigon. We believed that peace was very
near, and we wanted to underline the
message to both capitals. To our adver-
sary, we committed ourselves publicly to
the essence of the draft agreement. To our
friends, we emphasized that we would
take their concerns very seriously into ac-
count, but we left no doubt that we con-
sidered the basic settlement fair to all
parties. We sympathized with Saigon's
perspective. The war, after all, was on
their soil; they would have to live with
any agreement after we departed. But we
were determined to conclude a settlement
as soon as we were satisfied it was sound.
We emphasized our conviction that the
remaining problems could be solved in
one more negotiating round of three or
four days, as had been foreseen earlier in
October, if Hanoi continued to share our
serious attitude. We did not wish to re-
lease the full text of the draft agreement
or to get into specifics. To do so would only
give observers a scoreboard on which to
register points won by each side in subse-
quent bargaining. It would hurt the
chances for a final settlement by making
the outstanding problems matters of
prestige for the parties.
Therefore, we indicated the general
nature of the issues that still needed
resolution in order to solidify the
settlement:
-We wished to elaborate the details of
the control and supervisory machin-
ery which was established in
principle.
386
