Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
atmosphere for subsequent talks, while
others saw it as a link to more specific is-
sues, such as force reductions.
We were skeptical about symbolic acts
that failed to deal with the substance of
East-West tensions. The urgent issues of
European security were the tensions over
Berlin and Germany and the military con-
frontation in Central Europe. We could
not hand over our responsibilities in Ber-
lin to a European conference. If we could
not make progress on a central issue such
as Berlin, the results of a broad confer-
ence would be illusory. To stimulate an
atmosphere of détente through symbolic
gestures could only lead to disillusion-
ment and insecurity.
The United States, therefore, took the
position that a European conference
would only be acceptable if there was
progress on specific issues, including the
Berlin negotiations. A conference might
be appropriate if individual countries suc-
ceeded in regulating their relations and
resolving some of their territorial and
political issues.
This was accomplished by West Ger-
many's treaties with the Soviet Union and
Poland, the Quadripartite Agreement on
Berlin, and the SALT agreements. At my
summit meeting with the Soviet leaders
in May 1972, I agreed that we now could
begin preparing for a European Confer-
ence with the aim of broadening Euro-
pean cooperation.
Preparatory talks began last November
to find out whether there was sufficient
common ground to justify a conference
of Foreign Ministers. A provisional
agenda is being developed, which the For-
eign Ministers could consider. Progress
thus far suggests that the conference can
be convened this year and that it may be
possible to move forward on several im-
portant questions.
-The participants will address certain
principles of security and coopera-
tion. If all European countries sub-
scribe to common principles of
conduct, and carry them out in prac-
tice, there could be a further relaxa-
tion of tensions. Certain military
security matters designed to improve
confidence will also be considered.
-The conference would be an appro-
priate forum to discuss practical
cooperation in economics, cultural
exchange, science, and technology, on
which there has already been progress
in bilateral relations.
-The conference can consider how to
facilitate contacts among the peoples
of Europe and how to encourage
countries to exchange ideas and in-
formation.
The Conference on Security and Co-
operation in Europe thus can set a new
tone for European relations and establish
new modes of conduct and means of co-
operation. These would be practical steps
toward normal relations.
Mutual and Balanced Force Reduc-
tions. The exchanges leading up to the
conference also acted as a bridge to nego-
tiations on a more specific and central
security issue-mutual and balanced force
reductions in Central Europe. The pros-
pects for arms control in Europe are ob-
viously linked to political improvements
between East and West. Throughout the
1950's and 1960's there were proposals for
arms control in Europe. But it was un-
realistic to expect to negotiate a reduc-
tion of forces--for example, in Germany,
where there were almost continuous crises
over Berlin. Moreover, the reduction of
413
