[123] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
in higher prices for the American con-
sumer if we do not act decisively now.
By disposing of unneeded items in the
strategic stockpile, we can strike a critical
blow for the American consumer.
The purpose of the American strategic
stockpile is to ensure an adequate reserve
of vital materials in time of war without
imposing undue hardships on our civilian
population. The basic concept is an old
one, dating back to the Strategic and
Critical Materials Stock Piling Act of
1946. Ninety-five percent of the current
stockpile was acquired before 1959-the
bulk of it during the Korean War.
The present strategic stockpile totals
$6.7 billion worth of material, ranging
from metals, minerals, rubber and indus-
trial diamonds to unusual items such as
iodine.
Because our economy and technology
are dynamic, our capability to find sub-
stitutes for scarce materials is far greater
today than in the past. We are now able
to meet defense requirements for mate-
rials during possible major conflicts with-
out imposing an excessive burden on the
economy or relying on an enormous stock-
pile, as was once necessary.
After a careful and searching review
of the current stockpile, I have approved
new guidelines that would tailor the kind
and quantity of materials in the stockpile
to the national security needs of the 1970's.
The new stockpile would be substantially
reduced, but it would contain the critical
materials that we need in quantities fully
adequate for our national security require-
ments.
Our new guidelines would provide the
needed commodities to cover our mate-
rial requirements for the first year of a
major conflict in Europe and Asia. In the
event of a longer conflict, these 12 months
would give us sufficient time to mobilize
so that we could sustain our defense effort
as long as necessary without placing an
intolerable burden on the economy or the
civilian population.
Under existing law, the Administration
has the authority to sell approximately
$1.9 billion worth of stockpile material,
including substantial amounts of zinc,
aluminum and lead. However, to dispose
of the remaining $4.1 billion in unneces-
sary items, Congressional authorization is
needed.
Historically, the sale of each commodity
has been subject to individual legislation,
but this procedure is time-consuming and
redundant. To improve on it, the au-
thorizing legislation I am recommending
to the Congress takes the form of a single
omnibus bill for all excess stockpile com-
modities; it includes individual authoriza-
tions for 16 major commodities.
At the same time that they fully pro-
vide for our national security and eco-
nomic health in the event of an emer-
gency, our new stockpile guidelines also
enhance national efficiency and thrift.
Specifically, they would permit us to sell
$6 billion in no longer needed stockpile
material over the next several years.
I urge the Congress to take prompt and
favorable action on the stockpile legisla-
tion I am submitting. By doing so, the
Congress will demonstrate its willingness
to act in positive cooperation with the
executive branch in a way that is in the
best interests of all Americans.
The White House,
April 16, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the proposed stockpile disposal legis-
lation by Herbert Stein, Chairman of the Coun-
296
