[159] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
pointed by the President without Senate
confirmation.
The positions of Director and Deputy
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget were established in the Executive
Office of the President to provide the
President with advice and staff support in
the performance of his budgetary and
management responsibilities. These posi-
tions cannot reasonably be equated with
Cabinet and subcabinet posts for which
confirmation is appropriate.
The responsible exercise of the sepa-
rate legislative and executive powers is a
demonstration of the workability of the
American system. But, if it is to remain
workable, I must continue to insist on a
strong delineation of power and authority,
the basis of which is too fundamental to
allow to be undermined by S. 518.
The point was made most succinctly by
James Madison in 1789:
"If there is a principle in our Con-
stitution, indeed in any free constitution
more sacred than another, it is that which
separates the legislative, executive and
judicial powers. If there is any point in
which the separation of the legislative
and executive powers ought to be main-
tained with great caution, it is that which
relates to officers and offices."
The White House,
May 18, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The Senate voted to override the Presi-
dent's veto on May 22, 1973 On May 23, the
House of Representatives sustained the veto.
160 Remarks at Armed Forces Day Ceremonies, Norfolk
Naval Base, Virginia. May 19, 1973
Admiral Plate, Governor Holton, Mem-
bers of the Congressional delegation, and
all of the distinguished guests here on the
platform, and all of the distinguished peo-
ple in this audience today on Armed
Forces Day:
Beginning on a personal note, let me
say that this is a very proud day for Mrs.
Nixon, for me, for America, and for the
State of Virginia.
As you might imagine, there were a
number of suggestions made by the De-
fense Department as to where the Presi-
dent should go on Armed Forces Day.
We selected Norfolk, Virginia, for reasons
that all of you understand, and the State
of Virginia, it seems to me, is a very
appropriate place for us to celebrate this
day, because it was at Yorktown, just a
few miles from here, that the Armed
Forces of the then very young country,
the new United States, won the final vic-
tory that secured American independence.
That happened in Virginia.
It was on this soil, and in the waters
offshore, that some of the most epic bat-
tles of the War Between the States were
waged. It was from this great port of
Norfolk that fighting ships of the United
States Navy have sailed the seas to the
wars in crises of this century, most recently
when ships like the Independence, which
is behind us here, the Neu port Neus, both
of which served in the Gulf of Tonkin,
and when the Guam joined the 6th Fleet
during the Jordanian crisis 3 years ago.
Virginia has proudly been the home of
some of America's greatest military com-
manders, from Washington to Robert E.
Lee to the late "Sunny Jim" Vandergrift
540
