[351] Dec. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
effect in the two countries, including
laws relating to transshipment and
reexportation;
-training and exchange of specialists
and trainees;
-establishment of banks and banking
agencies in the two countries;
-joint cooperative projects in third
countries.
Such contracts may provide for shar-
ing and transfer of benefits, rights of par-
ticipation in the management of the joint
enterprises, procedures for dissolution of
the joint enterprise, and return and re-
patriation of capital on mutually agree-
able terms.
3. In their economic relations and in
applying their policies within the frame-
work of their laws and regulations, the two
countries will take full account of the re-
spective level of their economic develop-
ment as well as the characteristics of the
two economies. In this respect, it is noted
that Romania, as a developing country,
could be eligible for treatment accorded
to developing countries.
4. Currency payments between firms,
companies and economic organizations of
the two countries will be made in United
States dollars or any other freely convert-
ible currency mutually agreed upon;
other forms of payment may be agreed
upon.
5. Except for a public purpose, assets
belonging to nationals, companies and
economic organizations of one of the two
countries will not be expropriated by the
other country, nor will they be expropri-
ated without the payment of prompt, ade-
quate and effective compensation.
6. To the extent permitted by the laws
and international obligations of the two
countries, equipment and materials
imported temporarily into a country for
purposes of contracts concluded between
firms, companies and economic organiza-
tions of the two countries, will be exempt
from customs duties, other taxes and any
restrictions pertaining to importation.
With a view to the development of eco-
nomic cooperation, both sides will ex-
amine ways and means for the applica-
tion of further customs and fiscal facili-
tation for goods assigned to, and resulting
from cooperation projects within the pro-
visions of customs legislation in force in
the two countries.
7. Each country will provide nationals,
firms, companies and economic organiza-
tions of the other country protection of in-
ventions, trademarks and trade names in
accordance with the provisions of interna-
tional agreements in the field to which
the two countries are parties.
8. Each country will accord firms, com-
panies and economic organizations of the
other nondiscriminatory treatment as re-
gards payment, remittances and trans-
fers of funds or financial instruments, in
accordance with arrangements to be
worked out beween the two countries.
9. Each country will facilitate the en-
try and travel of official representatives,
experts, advisors and technicians of the
other country employed in connection
with commercial and economic coopera-
tion transactions between their firms,
companies and economic organizations,
and of members of their immediate
families.
10. Each country will facilitate partic-
ipation of their nationals, companies and
economic organizations in fairs and ex-
hibitions, organized in the other country.
11. Both countries will facilitate the ex-
change of economic, commercial and
technical information in fields of mutual
interest, including information concern-
1002
