Richard Nixon, 1973
I
Mar. 1 [61]
60 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention
on Ocean Dumping. February 28, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
Convention on the Prevention of Marine
Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and
Other Matter, opened for signature at
Washington, London, Mexico City and
Moscow on December 29, 1972. The re-
port of the Department of State is enclosed
for the information of the Senate.
This Convention is designed to estab-
lish in each country which is a party to
this Convention, a national system for
regulating the ocean disposal of wastes
comparable to the system for this country
provided by Title I of Public Law 92-532
enacted October 23, 1972, the Marine
Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act
of 1972.
International concern for the protection
and effective management of our oceans
has been growing in recent years. We ex-
pect this Convention to come into force
in a relatively short period of time and to
provide a significant and successful step
in the international control of marine pol-
lution. I recommend that the Senate give
prompt consideration to this Convention
and consent to its ratification.
The White House,
February 28, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Execu-
tive C (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
61 State of the Union Message to the Congress on
March 1, 1973
Human Resources.
To the Congress of the United States:
"Information of the State of the
Union," which our Constitution directs
shall be communicated from time to time
to the Congress by the President, must
consist above all of information about the
well-being of the American people.
As the opening words of the Constitu-
tion proclaim, America began with "We
the People." The people are the Union,
and its condition depends wholly on theirs.
While the Nation's land and resources,
its communities, its economy, and its
political institutions are also vital concerns
to be addressed in my reports to the Con-
gress this year, all of these in the final
analysis are no more than means to a
greater end. For each of them must ulti-
mately be measured according to a single
standard: what will serve the millions of
individual Americans for whom all public
officials serve as trustees.
Too often in the past that standard has
not prevailed. Too often public policy
decisions have been founded not on the
long-run interests of all the people, but
on the short-run interests of special groups
of people. Programs once set in motion
tend to stay in motion-sometimes long
after their useful life has ended. They ac-
quire a constituency of their own, even
within the Government, and they cannot
easily be reformed or stopped. Means
come to be regarded as ends in themselves.
And no one suffers more than the people
they were designed to serve.
133
