Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
and Soviet navies to reduce the
chances of dangerous incidents be-
tween ships and aircraft at sea.
Since the summit, all of the agreements
have been carried out as expected. Our
space agencies have conducted prelimi-
nary tests of models of the spacecraft dock-
ing system and crew training will begin
this summer. The Joint Committee on
Environmental Protection met in Moscow
in September 1972 and planned 30 col-
laborative projects on a variety of sub-
jects, including air and water pollution.
Programs for cooperative research on can-
cer and heart disease were developed by
our public health authorities in October
and November 1972. The Joint Commis-
sion on Science and Technology met in
Washington in March 1973 and agreed to
carry out some 25 projects in such fields
as energy, chemistry, biology, and agricul-
tural research. American and Soviet naval
officers will meet this year to review the
agreement on reducing incidents between
ships and aircraft.
This process of cooperation has begun
to engage an ever widening circle of peo-
ple in various professions and government
bureaus in both countries. Direct con-
tact, exchanges of information and experi-
ence, and joint participation in specific
projects will develop a fabric of relation-
ships supplementing those at the higher
levels of political leadership. Both sides
have incentives to find additional areas for
contact and cooperation, and I anticipate
further agreements patterned on those
already concluded.
Economic Relations. In the past, many
in the United States believed trade could
open the way to improved political rela-
tions. Others argued that increased eco-
nomic relations would only strengthen the
power of a potential adversary. In fact,
trade and other aspects of economic rela-
tions could never flourish if political rela-
tions remained largely hostile. Occasional
business transactions might be worked out
on an individual basis. But without some
reasonable certainty that political rela-
tions would be stable and free from pe-
riodic turbulence, both sides would be
reluctant to enter into long-term commer-
cial relations. Nor would the Congress
support an expanding economic relation-
ship while our basic relations with the So-
viet Union were antagonistic. With these
considerations in mind, in the earlier years
of this Administration I linked the expan-
sion of economic relations with improved
political relations.
Since progress was being made in the
pre-summit period in removing sources of
political tension, I authorized explorations
in the economic sphere. I sent the Sec-
retaries of Commerce and Agriculture to
the Soviet Union for discussions. The So-
viet Ministers of Foreign Trade and Agri-
culture came to the United States for the
same purpose. We began negotiations on a
maritime agreement to make concrete ar-
rangements for orderly transport of goods
between the two countries.
By the time of the summit, sufficient
progress had been made so that in my dis-
cussion with the Soviet leaders we were
able to agree on a general plan for moving
toward a more normal economic relation-
ship. We agreed it was essential to clear
away the long-standing Soviet lend-lease
debt to the United States. We also decided
that a formal trade agreement was needed
to provide the basis for resolving the many
technical problems resulting from the long
absence of economic intercourse. We
agreed to act in accord with generally
established international practice as re-
gards: arbitration of disputes, establish-
371
