[100] Mar. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
of any powerful country as the leader of
the second strongest nation in the world,
then you are in deep trouble.
Let me just put it quite directly in this
way: A mutual reduction of arms in the
world is our goal, whether it is a mutual
reduction of forces in Europe or a mutual
reduction-limitation first and then re-
duction of nuclear arms. But any pro-
gram in which we reduce and the others
stay high is not our goal, because when
the United States is weaker and they are
stronger, then the threat to peace in the
world and freedom in the world is
infinitely increased.
How are you going to get a mutual re-
duction of arms? How are you going to
get a mutual reduction of forces in
Europe?
Well, as I said last night, in any nego-
tiation you can't get something unless you
have something to give. And so, rather
than cutting our budget before we go into
these historic negotiations this year, send
the President of the United States there
with an adequate defense budget, and
then let us negotiate us both down.
Let me put it quite bluntly: Look at
the world today. Consider what the world
would be like if the United States were
not the most powerful nation in the world.
Oh, it would be mighty pleasant-we
would have more money to spend in the
cities and the States and many of the
other programs that you would like. But,
on the other hand, if we were not in this
position of strength, it doesn't mean that
nobody else would be in that position.
And as you look at the free world, there
is no other free-world nation, as there used
to be, that could be in that position. The
British can't do it; the French can't do it;
the Germans can't do it; the Japanese
can't do it even though they are all
economically powerful countries-for
reasons that we are aware and for dif-
ferent reasons in most instances.
So you can see simply the proposition
we are confronted with. What I have to
do is to stand for an adequate strong de-
fense budget, a budget which, as I say, is
one that is a spare one and a lean one, but
adequate to do the job.
In order to negotiate with the super
powers of the world, the Soviet Union,
the super power of today, and the PRC
[People's Republic of China], which will be
the super power of the world, a great super
power, 20 years from now-to negotiate
with them, the United States must be in a
position of strength and not of weakness.
I will simply close by saying that the
remarks that I have made have not in-
tended to be directed against the Con-
gress; they are not. They are not intended
to be partisan in any sense of the word, be-
cause Democrats as well as Republicans
think of the country first and certainly of
their party second when these great issues
of war and peace are involved.
But I will only say this: that, looking
to the future, we need your support, not
only for programs that will make gov-
ernment more responsive-and that is
why special revenue sharing is impor-
tant-that will improve its quality—that
is why you are important in your listen-
ing to this briefing. But we also need, at
this critical time, not to fool ourselves by
saying, now that we have had a great year
of progress in the areas of peace, we can
cut back, we can relax, and then put the
money into the domestic programs that
we would all like to put it in.
Let me tell you, the day that I can tell
the American people that we can safely
cut our defense budget, believe me, I will
be in the pack leading it. But I intend, as
244
