[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
defense had grown substantially. Almost
all the increases, however, had been ab-
sorbed by the war in Vietnam. The costs
of new weapons were escalating, as were
the expenses of maintaining the men of
our armed forces. In addition, we were
bearing burdens abroad for the common
defense that seemed out of proportion
to those borne by our allies. More than
a million Americans were stationed over-
seas, and our reserves at home were
minimal.
Yet, I found that our strategic doctrine
called for an American capability to fight
in two major theaters simultaneously.
The confrontation atmosphere of the Cold
War persisted in both Europe and Asia.
But the international environment after
25 years suggested new opportunities for
diplomacy and, accordingly, for adjust-
ments in military planning. The rigidity
of the confrontation between East and
West was easing, and the conduct of na-
tions could no longer be viewed in the
simple bipolar context of military blocs.
The need for an urgent reexamination
of our national security policy and pro-
grams was obvious. There were four over-
riding questions:
-What doctrine was appropriate for
our strategic forces in an era when
the threat of massive retaliation
alone was no longer credible in all
circumstances and decisive nuclear
superiority was probably unattain-
able?
-What should the interrelationship be
between the programs required for
maintaining our strength and our
proposals for limiting strategic arms
through negotiations?
-How could we simultaneously satisfy
pressing domestic needs, meet our re-
sponsibilities in Vietnam, and main-
tain the capabilities of our other
forces in a period when non-nuclear
challenges were an important dimen-
sion of the security problem?
-How could we, in coordination with
our allies, strengthen our mutual de-
fense in a manner that retained their
confidence in our reliability but per-
mitted them to play a more promi-
nent role?
Early in my first term, I made a series
of decisions that resulted in a new con-
cept of national security, reflected in the
Nixon Doctrine.
In strategic nuclear policy, we adopted
the doctrine of sufficiency. We could no
longer be complacent about the strategic
status quo merely because we could cause
a certain level of destruction in response
to an attack. We therefore began to de-
velop a sounder and more flexible doc-
trine for our forces that would provide
other retaliatory options besides a direct
attack on millions of people.
Concurrently, in order to reduce our
vulnerability and to compensate for the
Soviet buildup, we launched a program
to modernize our strategic forces. We con-
tinued to convert our land and sea-based
missiles to multiple independently target-
able warheads (MIRVs). Thus, our mis-
siles which would survive an attack
would be able in retaliation to strike their
targets with greater assurance of eluding
defenses. We laid plans for a new long-
range missile and submarine that would
reduce vulnerability by allowing opera-
tion in a larger ocean area while still in
range of targets. In addition, to increase
the survivability of our retaliatory forces,
we began planning a new strategic
bomber to replace the aging B-52 force.
478
