Richard Nixon, 1973
May 14 [152]
Therefore, in 1972, the Administration
moved to convert the existing 2 percent
loans to a program of insured and guar-
anteed loans at higher rates.
There were many in the Congress who
wanted to restore this program in its
original form, a move which I was un-
willing to accept. Fortunately, S. 394
represents a reasonable compromise on
both sides. In fact, the enactment of this
bill is a tribute to the months of con-
structive cooperation between the execu-
tive and legislative branches. There was
much debate and much negotiation, but
the important point is that the common
objectives of all parties were not lost in
a cloud of partisanship. I wan to express
the hope that this cooperative attitude
will characterize many of our legislative
efforts in the future.
S. 394 recognizes and deals with two
major objectives which were particularly
essential to the reform of the REA
program.
First, this bill focuses Federal assistance
and taxpayer dollars on those who truly
need that assistance. Only those borrowers
in rural areas with a definite need-those
in remote, geographically isolated, or eco-
nomically depressed areas-will receive
Federal loans at the 2 percent interest
rate.
Second, in those areas in which the
consumers are able and can afford to help
themselves, credit and assistance will
come from the private sector. No longer
should those who can afford to pay for
their electricity and telephone service
continue to receive unwarranted assist-
ance from the Federal Government.
I am also pleased that the volume of
loan funds available under this legislation
will substantially exceed the total loan
funds previously available.
These changes insure the moderniza-
tion and continued viability of the REA
program.
The hard work and mutual effort with
which this legislation proceeded convinc-
ingly shows that when government works
well by working right, there is credit
enough for all. In such instances the win-
ner is always the American citizen.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 394 is Public Law 93-32
(87 Stat. 65).
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the rural electrification and
telephone direct loan program and the major
provisions of S. 394.
152 Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring Roberto Clemente.
May 14, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are here for the presentation of the
first Presidential Citizens Medal, and I
am very honored and this office is honored
that that first medal-which we know will
be awarded in the future to distinguished
Americans for their service that first
medal goes to Roberto Clemente.
I would like to read the citation, be-
cause it is better than any speech I could
make, I think, with regard to Roberto
Clemente:
Citizens Medal citation, Roberto
Clemente:
"All who saw Roberto Clemente in ac-
tion, whether on the diamond or on the
front lines of charitable endeavor, are
richer for the experience. He stands with
that handful of men whose brilliance has
transformed the game of baseball into a
529
