Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 27 [276]
not only enjoy the conveniences of mod-
ern life but also satisfy his curiosity. So
long as the spirit of Franklin remains
alive in America, we can be confident that
our civilization will flourish.
Our patent system should always work
to foster that spirit. Unfortunately, our
current system does not always serve that
end. With the changes I am recommend-
ing today, however, we can combine the
best parts of our existing system with the
most promising proposals for improving
it. In that belief, I ask the Congress to
give the proposals contained in the Pat-
ent Modernization and Reform Act of
1973 prompt and careful consideration.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 27, 1973.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the proposed legislation. Partic-
ipants in the news briefing were John K. Ta-
bor, Under Secretary, Karl E. Bakke, General
Counsel, and Rene D. Tegtmeyer, Acting Com-
missioner of Patents for Trademarks, Depart-
ment of Commerce; and Thomas E. Kauper,
Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division,
Department of Justice.
276 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister
Norman E. Kirk of New Zealand.
September 27, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister and our distinguished
guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, you are no stranger
to our country; this is your fifth visit, but
we are very honored and very proud that
this is the first time we have had the op-
portunity to welcome you as the head of
government of your country.
We say that, because New Zealand and
the United States have been allies in war,
as we are now allies in peace. And I say
it, too, from a personal sense, because as
I have often pointed out to many visitors
from New Zealand and to you this morn-
ing, I have very pleasant memories of
serving with New Zealand forces in the
Solomons, your Third New Zealand Di-
vision. And then also, Mrs. Nixon and I
have the most pleasant memories of the
year 1953—it was 20 years ago, when on
a trip around the world, the first country
we visited, as Vice President of the United
States, was New Zealand.
We shall never forget the warmth of
the welcome we received, not only in
Auckland but in the South Island as
well. And we brought back from that trip
an affection for not only your country but
your people, which has never left us.
To our distinguished guests tonight, I
have had an opportunity that most of you
have not had, and that is to talk to the
Prime Minister at some length this morn-
ing about some of our mutual problems
and our concerns in the world.
Most of you probably read of his speech
in the U.N. yesterday when he said that he
spoke for the little countries of the world.
When he rises to respond to my remarks,
you will see that the man who represents
the little countries of the world is a big
man.
Prime Minister Kirk, however, is not
only a big man physically, as he is, but I
can tell you from our rather brief ac-
quaintance that he is also a big man in
829
