[195] July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will continue to take the responsible
actions necessary to win that peace.
Should further actions be required to that
end later this year, I shall request the Con-
gress to help us achieve our objectives.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9055 is Public Law
93-50 (87 Stat. 99), and H.J. Res. 636 is
Public Law 93-52 (87 Stat. 130).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
196 Independence Day Statement.
July 2, 1973
BECAUSE the first Fourth of July so
ringingly proclaimed the young American
Republic's faith in itself, each Independ-
ence Day becomes an important opportu-
nity to renew that faith. In reaffirming the
ideals and hopes struck so eloquently in
Independence Hall, we rededicate our-
selves to those basic strengths.
Independence Day is a day to secure
our moorings, to consider how far we have
come as a nation, and to understand where
we must yet go. It is a day of solemnity,
for the birth of our nation was a momen-
tous event for all mankind. But it is also a
day of great joy as we celebrate the won-
drous blessings of liberty and freedom.
As we near the Bicentennial celebration
of America's independence we must come
to measure the magnitude of our accom-
plishments. The spirit of 1976 must be as
strong and as meaningful as the spirit of
1776 which we commemorate each July
Fourth. The greatest lesson of this day of
celebration is the importance of unity of
purpose, of all Americans sharing in the
future of our country. If we seek that on
this July 4th, as the patriots sought it on
theirs, we need have no fear of our destiny.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was issued at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
197 Letter Responding to the Senate Select Committee on
Presidential Campaign Activities Request for
Presidential Testimony and Access to Presidential
Papers. July 7, 1973
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I am advised that members of the Sen-
ate Select Committee have raised the
desirability of my testifying before the
Committee. I am further advised that the
Committee has requested access to Presi-
dential papers prepared or received by
former members of my staff.
In this letter I shall state the reasons
why I shall not testify before the Commit-
tee or permit access to Presidential papers.
I want to strongly emphasize that my
decision, in both cases, is based on my
Constitutional obligation to preserve
intact the powers and prerogatives of the
Presidency and not upon any desire to
withhold information relevant to your
inquiry.
My staff is under instructions to co-
operate fully with yours in furnishing in-
formation pertinent to your inquiry. On
22 May 1973, I directed that the right of
636
