[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to all sides in South Africa and in the
Portuguese territories. While we favor
change, we do not regard violence as an
acceptable formula for human progress.
We do not recognize the regime in
power in Rhodesia; as far as permitted by
domestic legislation exempting strategic
materials, the United States adheres
strictly to the United Nations program of
economic sanctions. In Namibia, we rec-
ognize United Nations jurisdiction and
discourage United
United States
States private
investment.
No one who understands the complex
human problems of Southern Africa be-
lieves that solutions will come soon or
easily. Nor should there be any illusion
that the United States can transform the
situation, or indeed, that the United States
should take upon itself that responsibility.
This is the responsibility of the people who
live there, not of any outside power.
It is important that all who seek a reso-
lution of these problems address them
with seriousness, honesty, and compassion.
THE FUTURE OF U.S.-AFRICAN
RELATIONS
It is important to us that we have been
able to preserve our political ties with this
important sector of the Third World in
this new period. My fourteen personal
meetings with African leaders during my
first term in office were an opportunity
to further this process, as were the exten-
sive visits to Africa by the Vice President
and the Secretary of State-the first visit
by an American Secretary of State to
black Africa. A very special event oc-
curred in January 1972-an official trip
to Africa by Mrs. Nixon. Her warm re-
ception in Ghana, the Ivory Coast, and
Liberia was a symbol of the friendship of
Africans toward Americans and was par-
ticularly gratifying for that reason. I will
have further meetings with African lead-
ers this year. I traveled to Africa four
times before becoming President, and I
hope to become the first American Presi-
dent to visit black Africa while in office.
I intend as President to demonstrate my
concern for Africa--as a matter both of
personal conviction and of national policy.
American policy toward Africa in the
1970's will reflect not only our friendship
but a mature political relationship. The
United States and African nations can
deal with each other with frankness and
mutual understanding. There will be dif-
ferences of view, and there should be no
illusions about this on either side. But
the United States will seek bilateral rela-
tions with African countries on the basis
of sovereign equality and mutual respect.
We have an interest in the independ-
ence and nonalignment of African coun-
tries. We ask only that they take truly
nonaligned positions on world issues and
on the roles of the major powers.
Our most tangible contribution to
Africa's future is our support for its eco-
nomic progress. We will continue to em-
phasize our aid, trade, and investment
efforts.
We will continue to encourage evolu-
tionary change in Southern Africa through
communication with the peoples of the
area and through encouragement of eco-
nomic progress.
These are practical measures of sup-
port. They reflect our conviction that
Africa needs concrete measures that have
a real impact on its problems. Our ap-
proach represents a positive and construc-
tive role for America to play over the
long term. It sets goals we can meet. In
a new period, this philosophy suits the
466
