Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 24 [58]
war, we have successfully completed one
of the most unselfish missions ever under-
taken by one nation in the defense of an-
other, and now the coming of peace per-
mits us to turn our attention more fully
to the works of compassion, concern, and
social progress at home.
The seriousness of your Government's
commitment to make the most of this
op-
portunity is evidenced by the record level
of funding for human resources programs
proposed in our new budget-$125 bil-
lion-nearly twice the amount that was
being spent on such programs when I took
office in 1969.
Let us look behind this impersonal label,
"human resources," let us see some ex-
amples of the way these programs are
helping to provide a better life for the
American people.
Social security cash benefits for the
elderly and the disabled in fiscal year 1974
will be twice what they were 4 years ago.
Next year, 5 million additional poor,
aged, and disabled persons will receive
increased health benefits.
Hundreds of counties which previously
had no food programs to assure nutrition
for the needy have them now-hunger is
being eliminated from American life.
Hundreds of school districts which
were giving black or brown children in-
ferior educations in separate school sys-
tems at the time we took office now give
all their children an equal chance to learn
together in the same schools.
A new student assistance system is being
established to bring higher education with-
in reach of every qualified student in
America.
We have launched a national drive for
the conquest of cancer. We have advanced
a workable proposal to provide compre-
hensive health insurance for every Amer-
ican family.
Health and education benefits for our
veterans have been substantially increased.
High-priority job programs have de-
creased the unemployment rate among
Vietnam-era veterans by almost one-third
during the past year alone.
Sweeping reforms have been set in mo-
tion to assure our senior citizens of quality
nursing home care and of a better chance
to live with dignity in homes of their
own.
Legislative proposals to increase self-
determination and economic opportunity
for the American Indian have been laid
before the Congress. They will be resub-
mitted to the Congress this year.
Outlays for civil rights activities in 1974
will be more than $3 billion-that's 32
times what they were at the beginning of
this Administration. With this support,
we are closer today than ever before to
the realization of a truly just society,
where all men-and all women-are
equal in the eyes of the law.
These achievements, and others that I
will outline in my message to the Con-
gress, constitute a record to be proud of,
a good beginning to build on.
But there are certain other aspects of
the state of our Union's human resources
which urgently need reform.
During the 1960's, the Federal Govern-
ment undertook ambitious, sometimes
almost utopian, commitments in one area
of social policy after another, elbowing
aside the State and local governments
and the private sector and establishing
literally hundreds of new programs based
on the assumption that any human prob-
lem could be solved simply by throwing
enough Federal dollars at it.
129
