Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
no longer qualify for special treatment.
The United States would grant such
tariff preferences on the basis of interna-
tional fair play. We would take into
account the actions of other preference-
granting countries and we would not grant
preferences to countries which discrimi-
nate against our products in favor of goods
from other industrialized nations unless
those countries agreed to end such
discrimination.
Permanent Management Authorities.
To permit more efficient and more flexible
management of American trade policy, I
request permanent authority to make
limited reductions in our tariffs as a form
of compensation to other countries. Such
compensation could be necessary in cases
where we have raised certain barriers un-
der the new import restraints discussed
above and would provide an alternative in
such cases to increased barriers against our
exports.
I also request permanent authority to
offer reductions in particular United
States barriers as a means of obtaining
significant advantages for American ex-
ports. These reductions would be strictly
limited; they would involve tariff cuts of
no more than 20 percent covering no more
than two percent of total United States
imports in any one year.
REFORMING INTERNATIONAL TRADING
RULES
The coming multilateral trade negotia-
tions will give us an excellent opportunity
to reform and update the rules of inter-
national trade. There are several areas
where we will seek such changes.
One important need concerns the use of
trade policy in promoting equilibrium in
the international payments system. We
will seek rule changes to permit nations, in
those exceptional cases where such meas-
ures are necessary, to increase or decrease
trade barriers across the board as one
means of helping to correct their pay-
ments imbalances. We will also seek a new
rule allowing nations to impose import
restrictions against individual countries
which fail to take effective action to cor-
rect an excessive surplus in their balance
of payments. This rule would parallel the
authority I have requested to use Amer-
ican import restrictions to meet our own
balance of payments problem.
A second area of concern is the need
for a multilateral system for limiting im-
ports to protect against disruptions caused
by rapidly changing patterns of interna-
tional trade. As I emphasized earlier, we
need a more effective domestic procedure
to meet such problems. But it is also im-
portant that new arrangements be devel-
oped at the international level to cope with
disruptions caused by the accelerating
pace of change in world trade.
We will therefore seek new interna-
tional rules which would allow countries
to gain time for adjustment by imposing
import restrictions, without having to
compensate their trading partners by
simultaneously reducing barriers to other
products. At the same time, the interests
of exporting countries should be protected
by providing that such safeguards will be
phased out over a reasonable period of
time.
PROMOTING EXPORT EXPANSION
As trade barriers are reduced around
the world, American exports will increase
substantially, enhancing the health of our
entire economy.
Already our efforts to expand American
267
