[336] Nov. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
keep the peace. We have never gone to
destroy freedom. We have always gone to
defend freedom.
Mistakes, yes, we have made; perhaps
in the conduct of the wars, perhaps in the
conduct of foreign policy before they ever
came about. But we can be proud that the
United States in this century is a nation
that is dedicated to peace, and that the
world needs as a strong, powerful nation,
because we do stand for peace and will
work for peace whenever the case ever
arises.
Looking ahead to the year 2000, and it
is very difficult to look much beyond that,
but I think there is a better chance than
there has been since World War II that
because the relationships which Carl Vin-
son has spoken to, that we have established
with countries with whom we have noth-
ing in common as far as ideology is con-
cerned-in fact, we differ completely with
Chou En-lai, Mao Tse-tung, Mr. Brezh-
nev, Podgorny and their colleagues-but
because of the initiatives we have taken,
we may be establishing the pattern which
will mean that the great powers will recog-
nize that the risk of war is too great for
them to engage in adventurism in any part
of the world, and that the benefits of
peace, on the other side, are so much
greater that we should use our strength
for peace rather than for war.
Let me say just one personal note. I am
known as an anti-Communist, and I
earned that, and I suppose most of the
people in this audience would say, well, I
am against the Communists. But let me
say, I know the Russian people. They are
strong. They are vigorous. They are fine
people. I know the Chinese people. And
whether they are on Mainland China or
Taiwan or in Bangkok, where there are a
couple million of them, or in Manila,
where there are a million, they are
sophisticated, with layer on layer of his-
tory behind them, and also with an ability
to give much to the world. And I want a
world-I want a world for these young
people that we have heard outside a few
moments ago in which not only they won't
have to be drafted, not only they won't
have to go to war, but a world in which
they can work with their young col-
leagues in Russia, in China, in Latin
America, in Africa, to find the answer to
such critical questions as how do we avoid
cancer; to find the answer to such critical
questions that we are faced with in the
field of energy and all of that; the answer
to how we can work together to make
the world's environment better.
I am not suggesting that it is going to
be easy, and I am not suggesting that be-
cause we settled the Mideast conflict,
momentarily at least, that we can expect
that people who have hated each other for
thousands of years are now going to start
to love each other. But I do know this:
With the kind of power that we have, with
the kind of power that exists in other na-
tions across this globe and can exist in
others, it is essential, if civilization sur-
vives, that America remain strong enough
that our voice will be respected so that we
can play a peacekeeping role, because a
war is unthinkable in the present context
in which we presently live.
And that brings me now to Carl Vinson
again. He was for strength always in his
life, and America can be thankful that
because of what he stood for, we were
strong enough to have handled World
War I, World War II, Korea, Vietnam,
with military strength that was necessary;
to have handled the recent airlift which
avoided what could have been a very diffi-
cult situation in the Mideast and helped
970
