(264) Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
The main flaw they point to in the old
approach is its underlying assumption that
the basic problem of the poor is a lack
of housing rather than a lack of income.
Instead of treating the root cause of the
problem the inability to pay for hous-
ing the Government has been attacking
the symptom. We have been helping the
builders directly and the poor only in-
directly, rather than providing assistance
directly to low income families.
In place of this old approach, many
people have suggested a new approach- -
direct cash assistance. Under this ap-
proach, instead of providing a poor
family with a place to live, the Federal
Government would provide qualified re-
cipients with an appropriate housing pay-
ment and would then let them choose
their own homes on the private market.
The payment would be carefully scaled
to make up the difference between what a
family could afford on its own for hous-
ing and the cost of safe and sanitary hous-
ing in that geographic area. This plan
would give the poor the freedom and re-
sponsibility to make their own choices
about housing and it would eventually
get the Federal Government out of the
housing business.
Not surprisingly, our recent housing
study indicates what others have been
saying: of the policy alternatives avail-
able, the most promising way to achieve
decent housing for all of our families at
an acceptable cost appears to be direct
cash assistance.
Our best information to date indicates
that direct cash assistance will in the long
run be the most equitable, least expensive
approach to achieving our goal of a decent
home for all Americans a goal I am
committed to meeting. It appears to be a
policy that will work--not a policy where
success will always be a mirage. How-
ever, it may develop that the advantages
we now see for direct cash assistance will
be outweighed by other factors not pres-
ently foreseen or that such advantages
may be obtainable in alternative ways
which offer additional advantages. In that
event. I would, of course, reexamine the
situation in partnership with the Con-
gress before moving ahead. But right now,
in my judgment, our principal efforts
should be directed toward determining
whether a policy of direct cash assist-
ance with first priority for the elderly
poor can be put into practical operation.
As we proceed with new policies for
aiding lower income families, we must
also move with caution. Too often in the
past new Federal programs have been
launched on a sea of taxpayers' dollars
with the best intentions but with too lit-
tle information about how they would
work in practice. The results have been
less than what was promised and have
not been consistent with the Government's
obligation to spend the taxpayers' money
as effectively as possible.
One particular problem is that past
efforts in one area of assistance have
tended to ignore programs in other areas.
resulting in an inequitable hodge-podge
activity which satisfies no one. In this
regard, the relationship between housing
programs and welfare payments is par-
ticularly critical. We must carefully con-
sider the ways in which our housing pro-
grams will relate to other programs which
also assist low income persons.
Some field work has already begun with
respect to direct cash assistance in the
area of housing for those with low in-
comes. In 1970 the Congress authorized
housing allowance experiments involving
over 18,000 families and costing over
808
