Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
bership in that committee is open, not only
to GATT Contracting Parties, but to all
developing countries who want to take
part.
Major steps are also being taken in the
monetary and financial areas that will
alter greatly the international economic
system. The annual meetings of the World
Bank and International Monetary Fund
last September were landmark events in
the world of international finance. The
Committee of Twenty has been estab-
lished under the IMF, with three of its
members from Latin America, to develop
new and more workable mechanisms for
the world's monetary relationships.
While production, trade, and foreign
exchange reserves have increased sub-
stantially, serious economic and social
problems continue to beset many of the
nearly 300 million inhabitants of Central
and South America and the Caribbean.
The gross national product of the region
averaged close to $600 per person over the
last two years. But about one-half of the
people have a per capita income of less
than $250, and for one-fifth of the people
the figure is less than $150. In most coun-
tries there is only one doctor for every
2,000 or 3,000 people and life expectancy
is
50 years or less in half a dozen countries.
High rates of illiteracy in much of Latin
America represent a huge social deficit,
virtually eliminating all hope for progress
among millions of people.
THE U.S. RESPONSE
The United States cannot solve these
great social and economic problems, nor
can the world community. The initiative
must come from the peoples and govern-
ments concerned. But we are helping, and
we will continue to do so. In fiscal year
1972, United States bilateral assistance
to Latin America and the Caribbean
amounted to $338 million. We provided
an additional $103 million under the
Food for Peace program. Our Export-
Import Bank extended long-term loans of
more than $500 million to help fund im-
portant development programs.
This direct assistance is designed to
meet specific needs that can best be
handled on a bilateral basis. Nevertheless,
we have long realized that bilateral aid is
often a cause of friction between govern-
ments and the target of local criticism,
however biased and unfair. Extreme left-
ist critics regularly attack their govern-
ments for accepting U.S. aid and thereby
becoming "puppets." Obviously, no coun-
try is obliged to accept aid. But in an
atmosphere of increasing nationalism, we
recognize that such allegations, however
unfounded, have political and emotional
impact.
To meet this problem, we have delib-
erately worked to balance our economic
assistance efforts between bilateral pro-
grams and cooperative efforts through
multinational organizations. In the mid-
1960's, roughly two-thirds of our aid to
Latin America was bilateral. Today, the
proportion has been reversed and two-
thirds of our aid flows through multina-
tional organizations such as the Inter-
American Development Bank, the World
Bank, and the United Nations Develop-
ment Program.
These multinational programs have
several advantages. It is politically easier
for a country to accept assistance from an
international bank or other organization
than from one country. And international
organizations can impose strict conditions
439
