[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
nondiscriminatory, affecting all our trad-
ing partners. The resolution of the crisis
could only be achieved multilaterally, by
cooperation among all the major economic
nations, as was accomplished at the
Smithsonian in December 1971. Coming a
month after the China announcement,
however, these measures intensified the
fears of many on both sides of the Pacific
that our relations with Japan were in
danger. Unlike the case of China policy,
where the divergence of interest between
the United States and Japan was largely
illusory, the strain in our economic rela-
tions was clearly real. It was a deep-seated
and growing difficulty to which the United
States had long been calling attention.
The economic events of August 1971 had
the salutary effect of finally bringing at-
tention to this problem and bringing polit-
ical urgency to its solution.
Japan's trade surplus with the United
States reflects to a certain extent the com-
petitiveness and productivity of the
Japanese economy, as well as the slowness
of American exporters to exploit potential
markets in Japan. But to a significant
degree it has been promoted by anachro-
nistic exchange rates and an elaborate
Japanese system of government assistance,
complex pricing policies, and restrictions
on imports and foreign investment in
Japan-vestiges of an earlier period when
Japan was still struggling to become com-
petitive with the West. Japan's interest in
protecting weaker sectors in her home
market is now no different from that of
every other nation. The requirement to-
day is a fair system of mutual access to
expand trade in a balanced way in both
directions. Continued cooperation in deal-
ing with this problem positively is crucial
to the ability to fend off growing protec-
tionist pressures and to ensure that the
United States is able to address the is
sues of international trade positively as
well. This is a political imperative for
both sides.
We believe we have made some prog-
ress in the past year.
In January 1972 we concluded an agree-
ment moderating the growth of Japa-
nese synthetic textiles sales in the U.S.
market, mitigating what had become a
major irritant. Voluntary quota arrange-
ments have been reached governing steel.
Last July, in preparation for my summit
meeting with Prime Minister Tanaka,
high-level bilateral negotiations at Ha-
kone, Japan, produced important meas-
ures of liberalization of access to the
Japanese market and commitments to in-
crease Japanese purchases of agricultural
products, civil aircraft, uranium enrich-
ment services, and military items from the
United States. At our meeting in Hawaii,
Prime Minister Tanaka committed his
government to promote imports from the
United States and to reduce the imbal-
ance to a more manageable size. The
Japanese Government has publicly
pledged to reduce Japan's global surplus
in foreign trade and other current trans-
actions to one percent of Japan's Gross
National Product in two or three years. A
further step was taken at the end of April
1973 to liberalize restrictions on foreign
investment in Japan.
Two major currency revaluations have
raised the value of the yen by over 35 per-
cent with respect to the dollar, and there
are indications that these are beginning
to have an effect on our trade. For the
future there is interest on both sides of the
Pacific in creating regular mechanisms of
monitoring and adjustment, to anticipate
trade imbalances in particular sectors and
head them off before they generate pro-
422
