Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
firmly-held conviction that an open eco-
nomic system and the operation of the
market economy are the engines that best
generate economic advance. But it does
mean that we must be prepared to deal
realistically with governments as they are,
provided, of course, that they do not en-
danger security or the general peace of
the area.
In Latin America, as in other parts of
the world, most of the day-to-day relations
of the United States are handled through
the bilateral channels of traditional diplo-
macy. Most of us cannot know how exten-
sive this effort is, how varied, and how
time consuming. Cables flow in and out
around the clock. A Congressional dele-
gation is visiting here; an American stu-
dent has been thrown in jail there; a
fishing boat has been seized; an invest-
ment contract has been signed; an earth-
quake has leveled half a city. Many of
these events never come to the attention
of the American public. But our bilateral
relations and the continuing, intensive
contacts, consultations and communica-
tions they require-provide the founda-
tion and the framework of our foreign
relations.
Because of the important role they play
in so many countries of Latin America, a
special word should be devoted to our
relations with the military forces of the
hemisphere. Those forces represent a key
element in almost all Latin American so-
cieties, and in many they have assumed
national leadership. Because we have
recognized their various roles and because
of our mutual security interests, we have
developed over the years close ties of co-
operation and friendship with many of the
military leaders of Latin America. We
work cooperatively with them in a variety
of ways-combined exercises, conferences,
joint mapping ventures. Many of these
leaders have attended our advanced train-
ing and technical schools. Because of the
nature of military organizations, these ties
have largely been handled through profes-
sional channels.
At one time, the United States was by
far the principal source of military equip-
ment for Latin American governments.
After World War II, and again after the
Korean War, surplus military supplies
enabled us to fill most of the hemisphere's
needs. But that picture has changed re-
markably. We estimate that the govern-
ments of Latin America have ordered in
the last four years more than $1.2 billion
worth of military equipment from third
countries, principally from Britain,
France, West Germany, Canada, Italy,
and the Netherlands. That is about six
times more than they bought from the
United States.
There are several possible reasons for
this dramatic shift. In some cases, Euro-
pean sellers have provided highly attrac-
tive terms of sale. In other cases, the
precise equipment wanted was not im-
mediately available from the United
States but was from Europe. Some coun-
tries may have wished to reduce their
dependence on the United States and to
develop other sources of military supplies.
But one important reason for Europe's
ascendancy in this field has been the limi-
tations we have imposed on ourselves—
for example, by fixing annual ceilings on
sales of military equipment worldwide and
in this hemisphere, and by restricting
credit for such sales.
What is involved is the requisition by
Latin American countries of relatively
modest amounts of equipment for replace-
ment of materiel and for modernization.
Our hopes that by unilaterally restricting
435
