[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tives; with a firm rein on spending, none
of them is necessary.
REFORMING CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
PROCEDURES.-Delay in congressional
consideration of the budget is a major
problem. Each time I have submitted a
budget, the Congress has failed to enact
major portions of it before the next budget
was prepared. Instead, it has resorted to
the device of continuing resolutions to
carry on the activities for which it has not
made appropriations. Such delay need-
lessly compounds the complexities of
budget preparation, and frustrates the po-
tential of the budget as an effective man-
agement and fiscal tool.
The complexity of the budgeting proc-
ess is another problem. Because of modi-
fications made to reflect the desires of
the more than 300 congressional commit-
tees and subcommittees that influence it,
the process has become more complicated
and less comprehensible.
The fragmented nature of congres-
sional action results in a still more serious
problem. Rarely does the Congress con-
cern itself with the budget totals or with
the effect of its individual actions on those
totals. Appropriations are enacted in at
least 15 separate bills. In addition, "back-
door financing" in other bills provides
permanent appropriations, authority to
contract in advance of appropriations, au-
thority to borrow and spend without an
appropriation, and program authoriza-
tions that require mandatory spending
whether or not it is desirable in the light
of current priorities.
At the same time, a momentum of
extravagance is speeded by requirements
created initially by legislative committees
sympathetic to particular and narrow
causes. These committees are encour-
aged by special interest groups and by
some executive branch officials who are
more concerned with expansion of their
own programs than with total Federal
spending and the taxes required to sup-
port that spending. Since most programs
have some attractive features, it is easy
for the committees and the Congress it-
self to authorize large sums for them.
These authorizations, however, create
pressure on the appropriations committees
to appropriate higher amounts than the
Nation's fiscal situation permits.
Last October, the Congress enacted leg-
islation establishing a joint committee to
consider a spending ceiling and to recom-
mend procedures for improving congres-
sional control over budgetary outlay and
receipt totals.
I welcome this effort and pledge the
full cooperation of my Administration in
working closely with the committee and
in other efforts of the Congress toward
this end.
Specific changes in congressional pro-
cedures are, of course, the business of the
Congress. However, the manner in which
the Congress reviews and modifies the
budget impinges so heavily on the man-
agement of the executive branch that I
am impelled to suggest a few subjects that
deserve high priority in the committee's
deliberations, including:
- adoption of a rigid spending ceiling
to create restraint on the total at the
beginning of each annual review;
--avoidance of new "backdoor financ-
ing" and review of existing legisla-
tion of this type;
-elimination of annual authorizations,
especially annual authorizations in
specific amounts; and
prompt enactment of all necessary
appropriation bills before the begin-
ning of the fiscal year.
36
