[174] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
174 Address to the Nation Announcing Price Control
Measures. June 13, 1973
Good evening:
I want to talk to you tonight about some
strong actions that I have ordered today
with regard to the American economy-
actions which will be important to you in
terms of the wages you earn and the prices
you pay.
But first, since we have been hearing
so much about what is wrong with our
economy over the past few months, let
us look at some of the things that are
right about the American economy.
We can be proud that the American
economy is by far the freest, the strongest,
and the most productive economy in the
world. It gives us the highest standard of
living in the world. We are in the middle
of one of the biggest, strongest booms in
our history. More Americans have jobs
today than ever before. The average
worker is earning more today than ever
before. Your income buys more today
than ever before.
In August 1971, I announced the New
Economic Policy. Since then, the Na-
tion's output has increased by a phenom-
enal 11½ percent-a more rapid growth
than in any comparable period in the
last 21 years. Four and a half million new
civilian jobs have been created-and that
is more than in any comparable period in
our whole history. At the same time, real
per capita disposable income--that means
what you have left to spend after taxes and
after inflation-has risen by 72 percent
in that period. This means that in terms
of what your money will actually buy, in
the past year and a half your annual in-
come has increased by the equivalent of
4-weeks' pay.
Now, when we consider these facts, we
can see that in terms of jobs, of income,
of growth, we are enjoying one of the best
periods in our history.
We have every reason to be optimistic
about the future.
But there is one great problem that
rightly concerns every one of us, and that
is, as you know, rising prices, and espe-
cially rising food prices. By the end of
last year, we had brought the rate of in-
flation in the United States down to 3-4
percent. That gave us the best record in
1972 of
any industrial country in the
world. But now prices are going up at
unacceptably high rates.
The greatest part of this increase is due
to rising food prices. This has been caused
in large measure by increased demand at
home and abroad, by crop failures abroad,
and as many people in various areas of the
country know, by some of the worst
weather for crops and livestock that we
have ever experienced. But whatever the
reasons, every American family is con-
fronted with a real and pressing problem
of higher prices. And I have decided that
the time has come to take strong and ef-
fective action to deal with that problem.
Effective immediately, therefore, I am
ordering a freeze on prices.' This freeze
will hold prices at levels no higher than
those charged during the first 8 days of
June. It will cover all prices paid by con-
sumers. The only prices not covered will
be those of unprocessed agricultural prod-
ucts at the farm levels, and rents.
Wages, interest, and dividends will re-
main under their present control systems
during the freeze. Now, the reason I de-
By Executive Order 11723 of June 13, 1973-
584
