Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
MENT. A thorough overhaul of the Fed-
eral bureaucracy is long overdue, and I
am determined to accomplish it.
As the role of government has grown
over the years, so has the number of de-
partments and agencies which carry out
its functions. Unfortunately, very little at-
tention has been given to the ways in
which each new unit would fit in with all
the old units. The consequence has been a
hodgepodge of independent, organization-
ally unrelated offices that pursue inter-
related goals. As a result, able officials at
all levels have been frustrated, public ac-
countability has been obscured, and de-
centralization and coordination of Federal
operations have been impeded. This over-
lapping of responsibilities has increased
the costs of government. It has generated
interagency conflict and rivalry and, most
importantly, it has imposed inexcusable
inconvenience on the public that is sup-
posed to be served.
To help remedy this situation, I pro-
posed to the Congress in 1971 that the
executive branch be restructured by con-
solidating many functions now scattered
among several departments and agencies
into four new departments. These new
departments would be organized around
four major domestic purposes of govern-
ment: community development, human
resources, natural resources, and economic
affairs-thus consolidating in a single
chain of command programs that contrib-
ute to the achievement of a clearly stated
mission. Under this arrangement, we will
be able to formulate policy more respon-
sibly and more responsively and carry out
that policy more efficiently and more ef-
fectively. I welcome congressional coop-
eration in this important endeavor and
will seek it in the weeks ahead. I plan now
to streamline the executive branch along
these lines as much as possible within
existing law, and to propose similar legis-
lation on departmental reorganization to
the 93d Congress.
Meanwhile, I have already taken the
first in a series of steps that will increase
the management effectiveness of the Cabi-
net and the White House staff. I hope the
smaller and more efficient Executive Of-
fice of the President will become a model
for the entire executive branch.
Reorganization of the executive branch
is a necessary beginning but reorganiza-
tion alone is not enough.
Increased emphasis will also be placed
on program performance. Programs will
be evaluated to identify those that must
be redirected, reduced, or eliminated be-
cause they do not justify the taxes required
to pay for them. Federal programs must
meet their objectives and costs must be
related to achievements.
The Federal Assistance Review pro-
gram, which I began in 1969, has made
important progress in decentralizing and
streamlining Federal grant programs. To
speed the process of decentralization, im-
prove program coordination, and elimi-
nate unnecessary administrative compli-
cations, I have strengthened the Federal
Regional Council system. These councils,
working with State and local govern-
ments, have played an impressive and
growing role in coordinating the delivery
of Federal services.
A REVITALIZED FEDERAL SYSTEM.-Re-
structuring of the Federal Government is
only one step in revitalizing our overall
federal system. We must also make certain
that State and local governments can ful-
fill their role as partners with the Federal
Government. Our General Revenue Shar-
ing and special revenue sharing programs
can help considerably in achieving this
39
