[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
These sweeping transformations, how-
ever, have not been matched by sufficient
change in our trading and monetary sys-
tems. The approaches which served us so
well in the years following World War II
have now become outmoded; they are
simply no longer equal to the challenges of
our time.
The result has been a growing sense of
strain and stress in the international
economy and even a resurgence of eco-
nomic isolationism as some have sought
to insulate themselves from change. If we
are to make our new economic era a time
of progress and prosperity for all the
world's peoples, we must resist the im-
pulse to turn inward and instead do all we
can to see that our international economic
arrangements are substantially improved.
MOMENTUM FOR CHANGE
The United States has already taken a
number of actions to help build a new
international economic order and to ad-
vance our interests within it.
-Our New Economic Policy, an-
nounced on August 15, 1971, has helped
to improve the performance of our domes-
tic economy, reducing unemployment and
inflation and thereby enhancing our com-
petitive position.
-The realignment of currencies
achieved under the Smithsonian Agree-
ment of December 18, 1971, and by the
adjustments of recent weeks have also
made American goods more competitive
with foreign products in markets at home
and abroad.
-Building on the Smithsonian Agree-
ment, we have advanced far-reaching pro-
posals for lasting reform in the world's
monetary system.
-We have concluded a trade agree-
ment with the Soviet Union that promises
to strengthen the fabric of prosperity and
peace.
Opportunities for mutually beneficial
trade are developing with the People's
Republic of China.
--We have opened negotiations with
the enlarged European Community and
several of the countries with which it has
concluded special trading agreements con-
cerning compensation due us as a result
of their new arrangements.
But despite all these efforts, underlying
problems remain. We need basic trade re-
form, and we need it now. Our efforts to
improve the world's monetary system, for
example, will never meet with lasting suc-
cess unless basic improvements are also
achieved in the field of international
trade.
BUILDING A FAIR AND OPEN TRADING
WORLD
A wide variety of barriers to trade still
distort the world's economic relations,
harming our own interests and those of
other countries.
-Quantitative barriers hamper trade
in many commodities, including some of
our potentially most profitable exports.
-Agricultural barriers limit and dis-
tort trade in farm products, with special
damage to the American economy because
of our comparative advantage in the
agricultural field.
-Preferential trading arrangements
have spread to include most of Western
Europe, Africa and other countries bor-
dering on the Mediterranean Sea.
---Non-tariff barriers have greatly pro-
liferated as tariffs have declined.
260
