[185] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
development of broad and mutually bene-
ficial cooperation in various fields of mu-
tual interest to the peoples of both coun-
tries and in the interests of all mankind.
They noted their satisfaction with the mu-
tual effort to implement strictly and fully
the treaties and agreements concluded be-
tween the USA and the USSR, and to
expand areas of cooperation.
They agreed that the process of reshap-
ing relations between the USA and the
USSR on the basis of peaceful coexistence
and equal security as set forth in the Basic
Principles of Relations Between the USA
and the USSR signed in Moscow on
May 29, 1972 is progressing in an en-
couraging manner. They emphasized the
great importance that each Side attaches
to these Basic Principles. They reaffirmed
their commitment to the continued
scrupulous implementation and to the
enhancement of the effectiveness of each
of the provisions of that document.
Both Sides noted with satisfaction that
the outcome of the US-Soviet meeting in
Moscow in May 1972 was welcomed by
other States and by world opinion as an
important contribution to strengthening
peace and international security, to curb-
ing the arms race and to developing busi-
nesslike cooperation among States with
different social systems.
Both Sides viewed the return visit to
the USA of the General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the CPSU, L. I.
Brezhnev, and the talks held during the
visit as an expression of their mutual
determination to continue the course to-
ward a major improvement in US-Soviet
relations.
Both Sides are convinced that the dis-
cussions they have just held represent a
further milestone in the constructive de-
velopment of their relations.
Convinced that such a development of
American-Soviet relations serves the in-
terests of both of their peoples and all of
mankind, it was decided to take further
major steps to give these relations maxi-
mum stability and to turn the develop-
ment of friendship and cooperation
between their peoples into a permanent
factor for worldwide peace.
II. THE PREVENTION OF NUCLEAR WAR
AND THE LIMITATION OF STRATEGIC
ARMAMENTS
Issues related to the maintenance and
strengthening of international peace were
a central point of the talks between Presi-
dent Nixon and General Secretary
Brezhnev.
Conscious of the exceptional impor-
tance for all mankind of taking effective
measures to that end, they discussed ways
in which both Sides could work toward
removing the danger of war, and espe-
cially nuclear war, between the USA and
the USSR and between either party and
other countries. Consequently, in accord-
ance with the Charter of the United Na-
tions and the Basic Principles of Relations
of May 29, 1972, it was decided to con-
clude an Agreement Between the USA
and the USSR on the Prevention of Nu-
clear War. That Agreement was signed
by the President and the General Secre-
tary on June 22, 1973. The text has been
published separately.ยน
'The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 822). On June 22, 1973, the White
House released a fact sheet and the transcript
of a news briefing on the agreement by Henry
A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs. The news briefing is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 823).
612
