Appendix B-Additional White House Announcements
NOTE: This appendix lists items of general interest which were announced to the press during
1973 but which are not noted elsewhere in this volume. Routine announcements of appointments,
nominations, resignations, and retirements may be found in the Digest of Other White House
Announcements of the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents on the date of the
announcement.
January
1 The President met with George Allen, head
coach of the Washington Redskins, and his
family to congratulate the team on win-
ning the National Football Conference
championship.
2 Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield
met with the President at the White House
to discuss the 93d Congress.
3 Speaker of the House Carl Albert break-
fasted with the President to consult with
him on the 93d Congress.
3 Senator J. Bennett Johnston, Jr., of Louisi-
ana, and his family called on the President
at the White House.
3 David M. Abshire, who resigned as Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Congressional
Relations, made a farewell call on the
President at the White House.
3 Curtis C. Stapp of Oakland, Calif., who
had been named "Truckdriver of the Year"
for 1973, called on the President at the
White House.
3 The President talked by telephone with
Senate leaders Mike Mansfield and Hugh
Scott and with House of Representatives
leaders Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., and Gerald
R. Ford. The leaders informed the President
that a quorum was present and that the
Senate and House were ready to conduct
business.
4 Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, who resigned
as Director of the Arms Control and Dis-
armament Agency, paid a farewell call on
the President.
January
4 The First Lady represented the President
at memorial services in New Orleans for
House Majority Leader Hale Boggs.
5 The President held a breakfast meeting with
the bipartisan leadership of the Congress.
Discussion topics included the economy, the
organization of the executive branch, and
Vietnam.
5 In a series of meetings, the President re-
ceived foreign leaders who were in Wash-
ington to attend memorial services for
former President Harry S. Truman. Calling
at the White House were President Zalman
Shazar of Israel, Prime Minister John M.
Lynch of Ireland, Prime Minister Kim
Chong-pil of Korea, Foreign Secretary
Carlos P. Romulo of the Philippines, and
Vice President Yen Chiakan of the Repub-
lic of China.
5 Edward E. David, Jr., who resigned as
Science Adviser to the President, paid a
farewell call on the President.
5 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a
reception at the White House for freshman
Members of the Congress.
11 Members of the Council on Environmental
Quality met with the President at the White
House.
14 The President met with Henry A. Kissinger
and Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., in Key
Biscayne, Fla., following Dr. Kissinger's
return from Paris. General Haig later de-
parted for Saigon to discuss the current
status of the negotiations with President
Nguyen Van Thieu.
1064
