[365] Dec. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
365 Remarks About the Proposed Windfall Profits Tax.
December 19, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, we have asked all of the
American people to cooperate in at-
tempting to meet our energy shortage. As
the meetings we have been having on this
subject have indicated over the past few
weeks, the cooperation of the American
people has really been splendid. And one
of the results of that cooperation is that
the shortfall that we have expected has
been considerably less than anticipated.
However, in asking all of the American
people to make some sacrifice in terms of
their use of energy, it is unfair for some
to profit as a result of the sacrifice of
others.
For some time now we have been con-
sidering, within the Administration, a tax
measure which would provide for dealing
with what we would call windfall profits
which might accrue as a result of the
energy shortage. It just isn't fair, for ex-
ample, for millions of Americans to make
sacrifices in order to deal with the crisis
we confront and for a few to make excess
profits or what we would call windfall
profits.
We think we have here a proposal that
is fair-fair to the great majority of
Americans who are cooperating with this
program and fair also to those who might
be the recipients of windfall profits. At
the same time, it is a tax measure that will
not discourage the new production that is
essential if we are to deal with the energy
crisis, not only in the short term but in the
long term.
Secretary Shultz will answer questions
with regard to the tax aspects of this pro-
posal, and Mr. Simon will answer any
questions that deal with the energy items
in case you want to go into those as well.
The meeting of the emergency energy
group will be going on at the present time
in the Cabinet Room, and I will return
to that meeting.
In the meantime, Secretary Shultz and
Director Simon will be glad to answer
your questions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a transcript of the news briefing on the pro-
posed windfall profits tax by Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz.
366 Memorandum Establishing the President's Interagency
Committee on Export Expansion. December 20, 1973
Memorandum for:
The Secretary of Agriculture
The Secretary of Commerce
The Secretary of Labor
The Secretary of Transportation
Under Secretary of State for Economic
Affairs
Deputy Secretary of the Treasury
Deputy Secretary of Defense
Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust
Division
President, Export-Import Bank of the
United States
Chairman, Federal Maritime Commis-
sion
1020
