[249] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
approach of really pouring the coal on, in
terms of getting the supplies up, may be
beginning to bear some fruit. Now we will
see what happens to the prices next time.
If they go up, you were wrong.
MR. STEIN. I am not a forecaster. I
just pointed out what has happened.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We leave the forecast-
ing to Stein. You take the credit or dis-
credit. Economists are expected to be
wrong.
MR. STEIN. It averages out. Nine times
you're wrong, and once you're right.
THE PRESIDENT. You are batting like
the California Angels.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks, which began
at 3:37 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White
House, took place during a portion of the meet-
ing when reporters and photographers were
invited to be present
The President was meeting with the
Troika-Secretary Shultz, Mr. Stein, and Roy
L. Ash, Director of the Office of Management
and Budget-to discuss Wholesale Price Index
figures for August and other economic matters.
Also present were Counsellors to the Presi-
dent Melvin R. Laird and Bryce N. Harlow.
On the following day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Secretary Shultz on economic matters and his
forthcoming trips to Tokyo and Nairobi.
250 Remarks About the Nation's Energy Policy.
September 8, 1973
AS you know, we have just completed a
2-hour meeting in the Cabinet Room of
the major Administration officials having
responsibilities in the field of energy. Gov-
ernor Love presided over the meeting at
my direction and gave a report with re-
gard to the programs that he has initiated
and that had been initiated prior to his
taking over this assignment.
I would like to summarize for the mem-
bers of the press, before having the Gov-
ernor answer your specific questions in
this field, the problem as I see it at this
time.
We have heard a lot about a crisis. I do
not use that term, because we do not face
a crisis in that sense of the word. I would
simply say that in the short term we face
a problem, a problem with regard to
energy-heating, for example, this winter,
just as we thought we faced a problem of
gasoline this summer, and the possibility
of brownouts.
We are not Pollyannaish about solving
that problem, but insofar as the short-
term problem is concerned, Governor
Love has a program which he is working
on and one which is designed to meet the
problem and to deal with it.
So, I would summarize by saying that
short-term we face a problem. But long-
term, and this is the important thing for
us to remember, the prospects for ade-
quate energy for the United States are
excellent. I would say the prospects for
adequate energy for the United States are
as good as they are for any industrial
nation in the world and perhaps better,
better because of our enormous research
capabilities.
This morning we addressed both the
short-term problem and the long-term
problem and the legislative problem and
the administrative problem.
In my press conference a couple of
days ago, I mentioned seven pieces of
752
