[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the late 1960's the effectiveness of
American strategic nuclear forces was
measured by a criterion known as "as-
sured destruction." This concept assumed
that deterrence could be maintained if it
were clear that following a large-scale
nuclear strike the United States could re-
taliate and inflict an unacceptable level of
damage on the population and industry of
the attacker.
In the 1970's strategic doctrine must
meet different criteria. While the specter
of an unacceptable response is funda-
mental to deterrence, the ability to kill
tens of millions of people is not the only
or necessarily the most effective deterrent
to every challenge. Such a drastic course
can be credibly reserved only for the most
overwhelming threats to national sur-
vival. Moreover, the measurement of the
effectiveness of our strategic forces in
terms of numbers of dead is inconsistent
with American values.
A different strategic doctrine is re-
quired in this decade when potential ad-
versaries possess large and more flexible
nuclear forces. The threat of an all-out
nuclear response involving the cities of
both sides might not be as credible a de-
terrent as it was in the 1960's. An aggres-
sor, in the unlikely event of nuclear war,
might choose to employ nuclear weapons
selectively and in limited numbers for
limited objectives. No President should
ever be in the position where his only
option in meeting such aggression is an
all-out nuclear response. To deal with a
wide range of possible hostile actions, the
President must maintain a broad choice
of options.
Credible deterrence in the 1970's re-
quires greater flexibility:
-Lack of flexibility on our part could
tempt an aggressor to use nuclear
weapons in a limited way in a crisis.
If the United States has the ability
to use its forces in a controlled way,
the likelihood of nuclear response
would be more credible, thereby
making deterrence more effective
and the initial use of nuclear weap-
ons by an opponent less likely.
-Therefore, to extend deterrence over
a wider spectrum of possible contin-
gencies we should ensure that our
forces are capable of executing a
range of options.
-If war occurs-and there is no way
we can absolutely guarantee that it
will not-we should have means of
preventing escalation while convinc-
ing an opponent of the futility of
continued aggression.
Greater flexibility in the employment
of our forces does not necessitate any
drastic change in our nuclear programs.
The fundamental objective of military
forces remains deterrence. Potential ag-
gressors must be aware that the United
States will continue to have both the re-
solve and the capacity to act in the face
of aggression in all circumstances.
STRATEGIC PROGRAMS
Our weapons programs are planned
within the framework of this strategic
policy. We must also consider Soviet stra-
tegic developments, arms limitations, and
the potential for technological change. In
light of the current strategic situation, I
have determined that the U.S. must con-
tinue its modernization programs to en-
sure the future sufficiency of our nuclear
forces.
-We are therefore improving our
ICBM force. Silos for Minuteman
missiles are being hardened, and 550
482
