Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
of this fact: Any individual in the Justice
Department or in the prosecutor's office
who is in the employ of the United States
who has leaked information in this case
to the press or to anybody else will be
summarily dismissed from Government
service. That is how strongly I feel about
it, and I feel that way, because I would
make this ruling whether it was the Vice
President or any individual.
We have to remember that a hearing
before a grand jury-and that determi-
nation in the American process is one that
is supposed to be in confidence is sup-
posed to be in secret, because all kinds of
charges are made which will not stand up
in open court, and it is only when the case
gets to open court that the press and the
TV have a right to cover it-well, they
have a right to cover it, but, I mean, have
a right, it seems to me, to give such broad
coverage to the charges.
THE PRESIDENT'S CAPACITY TO GOVERN
[11] Q. Mr. President, at any time
during the Watergate crisis did you ever
consider resigning, and would you con-
sider resigning if you felt that your capac-
ity to govern had been seriously weak-
ened? And in that connection, how much
do you think your capacity to govern has
been weakened?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to the
first two questions is no; the answer to
the third question is that it is true that as
far as the capacity to govern is concerned,
that to be under a constant barrage-12 to
15 minutes a night on each of the three
major networks for 4 months-tends to
raise some questions in the people's mind
with regard to the President, and it may
raise some questions with regard to the
capacity to govern. But I also know this:
I was elected to do a job. Watergate is an
episode that I deeply deplore, and had I
been running the campaign rather than
trying to run the country, and particularly
the foreign policy of this country at this
time, it would never have happened. But
that is water under the bridge, it is gone
now.
The point that I make now is that we
are proceeding as best we know how to
get all those guilty brought to justice in
Watergate. But now we must move on
from Watergate to the business of the
people, and the business of the people is
continuing with initiatives we began in
the first Administration.
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Just a moment.
We have had 30 minutes of this press
conference. I have yet to have, for ex-
ample, one question on the business of
the people, which shows you how we are
consumed with this. I am not criticizing
the members of the press, because you
naturally are very interested in this is-
sue, but let me tell you, years from now
people are going to perhaps be interested
in what happened in terms of the ef-
forts of the United States to build a struc-
ture of peace in the world. They are per-
haps going to be interested in the efforts
of this Administration to have a kind of
prosperity that we have not had since
1955-that is, prosperity without war and
without inflation-because throughout
the Kennedy years and throughout the
Johnson years, whatever prosperity we
had was at the cost of either inflation or
war or both. I don't say that critically of
them, I am simply saying we have got to
do better than that.
Now, our goal is to move forward then,
to move forward to build a structure of
peace. And when you say, do I consider
31-870 O 75 49
719
