[246] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
testified before the Senate committee that
they didn't know anything about it, this
investigation that you referred to. And I
wonder if you could explain how it is
that they apparently didn't know anything
about this new investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, because I had
ordered the investigation from within the
White House itself. The investigation, up
to that time, had been conducted by Mr.
Dean, and I thought by him working with,
as he had been, in close communication
with the Justice Department.
I turned the investigation-asked Mr.
Dean to continue his investigation as I,
as you remember, said last week, 2 weeks
ago, in answer to a similar question. When
he was unable to write a report, I turned
to Mr. Ehrlichman. Mr. Ehrlichman did
talk to the Attorney General, I should
remind you, on the 27th of March-I
think it was the 27th of March. The
Attorney General was quite aware of that,
and Mr. Ehrlichman, in addition, ques-
tioned all of the major figures involved
and reported to me on the 14th of April
and then, at my suggestion-direction,
turned over his report to the Attorney
General on the 15th of April. An investi-
gation was conducted in the most
thorough way.
PRESIDENTIAL LEADERSHIP
[13] Q. Mr. President, you listed sev-
eral areas of domestic concern-
THE PRESIDENT. Now we have the
three networks.
Q. You listed several areas of domestic
concern in the message you are going to
send to Congress, but it has also been
written that one of the major problems
facing your Administration now is re-
building confidence in your leadership. Do
you share that view, and if so, how do
you plan to cope with it?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Valeriani [Rich-
ard Valeriani, NBC News], that is a prob-
lem, it is true. It is rather difficult to have
the President of the United States on
prime time television-not prime time,
although I would suppose the newscasters
would say that the news programs are
really the prime time-but for 4 months
to have the President of the United States
by innuendo, by leak, by, frankly, leers
and sneers of commentators, which is their
perfect right, attacked in every way with-
out having some of that confidence being
worn away.
Now, how is it restored? Well, it is re-
stored by the President not allowing his
own confidence to be destroyed; that is to
begin. And second, it is restored by doing
something. We have tried to do things.
The country hasn't paid a great deal of
attention to it, and I may say the media
hasn't paid a great deal of attention to it
because your attention, quite understand-
ably, is in the more fascinating area of
Watergate.
Perhaps that will now change. Perhaps
as we move in the foreign policy initiatives
now, having ended one war, to build a
structure of peace, moving not only with
the Soviet Union and with the PRC
[People's Republic of China]--where Dr.
Kissinger, incidentally, will go, after he is
confirmed by the Senate, which I hope
will be soon-but as we move in those
areas and as we move on the domestic
front, the people will be concerned about
what the President does, and I think that
that will restore the confidence. What the
740
