[24] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
mayor from Moscow here, we all realize
that that trip had enormous significance
in terms of the future of the world in
which we live because it was really the
first time that two very great powers sat
down together, recognized their dif-
ferences and also those areas where they
could work together, and made agree-
ments, agreements to work together in
certain peaceful enterprises and to limit
armaments in other enterprises. And so, a
beginning was made, a very important
beginning that needed to be made. That
happened this year.
And then finally, and reference has
already been made to this, for the first
time in 10 years at one of these prayer
breakfasts, the President of the United
States is able to say the United States is at
peace in Vietnam.
Could I put that peace in perspective?
I refer to these journeys abroad and also
the agreement that has just been reached.
We could read too much into the peace
that we have talked about, much as we
would hope that it could mean every-
thing that we could possibly imagine.
But as we look over the history of agree-
ments between nations and as we look at
those periods of peace that follow war,
the record is not too encouraging. Be-
cause what we often find is that after
war and after a period in which a nation
has peace, the conflict that we were en-
gaged in in war tends to turn itself inward
and we continue to engage in that con-
flict in peace. And rather than a period of
peace being one that is creative and posi-
tive, it is one that is negative, one of
withdrawal, one of isolation, and that
plants the seeds for more conflict, not only
at home but abroad.
This is the record too often in the past.
We must not let it happen now.
I recall, for example, in 1969 right after
I had been elected for the first time, a trip
to Europe. We had some problems on our
campuses at that time, as you may re-
member. And when I visited one of the
European heads of state which had had
no war for 25 years--and we had had two,
one in Korea, and we were then involved
in one in Vietnam-we talked long into
the night about the problems of our
young people, his and ours.
And he made a very profound com-
ment. He said, "The problem with your
young people is war." He said, "The prob-
lem with our young people is peace."
We must not let that happen. For our
young people and for this Nation, we
must recognize that peace is not some-
thing that is simply the absence of war,
it is an opportunity to do great things—
great things for our people at home, great
things for people abroad.
I think, for example, of treaties that are
made. I have made reference to the fact
that the recent agreements that we have
signed will mean peace in Vietnam and,
eventually, throughout Indochina, we
trust, but it will mean peace only to the ex-
tent that both sides and the leaders of
both sides have the will to keep the
agreement.
All the paper in the world, all the more
fancy phrases that could have added to the
very intricate phrases that are already in
the agreement would mean nothing if the
individuals who have the responsibility for
keeping the agreement do not keep it.
We will keep the agreement. We expect
others to keep the agreement. That is the
way peace can be kept abroad-only, in
other words, by the will of the individuals
involved. And you must change the man
or you must change the woman if the
agreement is to be kept.
64
