Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 6 [31]
tion, in a part of the world that could
otherwise explode into violence and
extremism.
All of us tonight are dedicated to his
hope and our hope of a real peace in the
Mideast, a peace for which he has worked
and for which we are working. And con-
sequently, tonight, we honor him because
he has sought that peace; he has stood
for it against those elements that might
not perhaps have supported it. And we
honor him also for the courage that he
has displayed throughout his life as the
King of his country, a country that we are
proud to be allied with in friendship and
allied with also in the ideals that we sup-
port: of peace and freedom and inde-
pendence for all nations in the world.
It is in that spirit that I ask you to rise
and raise your glasses to His Majesty, the
King of Jordan.
The King.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, the President and King
Hussein met at the White House.
King Hussein responded to the President's
toast as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
It is really a great pleasure and a tribute for
me to be once again in the United States and
in particular as your guest here.
You have brought to my mind, with your
kind words, many, many memories of the years
that have passed, of the years through which
I was privileged to serve among the people
who have given me pride in serving them and
to strive with them and, with their help and
support, to uphold the ideals and principles
that are ours and yours in every way and in
every respect.
As for the friendship that has always existed
between our nations, to us in Jordan, who
have seen it grow, have striven to see it grow,
in every field and in every area, with pride, as
we have indeed and have always been proud to
belong to the same family of free people.
If Jordan has survived, it was because the
people of Jordan, as a whole, have inspired me,
but more than that, shared with me my beliefs
and my convictions and also shared with me
the same hopes for a better future in that part
of the world and in the world as a whole. It
has always been a privilege for me to visit the
United States. I have always been overwhelmed
by the great kindness, the friendship, the inter-
est, the sympathy of my friends in the United
States throughout the years that have passed;
and for the support, we owe a great debt in
many times of difficulty and crisis.
As for the present, sir, we have watched the
tremendous efforts of you, your good self, Mr.
President, not only at the helm of the greatest
nation on Earth but your efforts for a better
world, a world of understanding and friend-
ship and cooperation.
In many ways we have shared with the
people of the United States their pride in you.
Your victories have been ours. As we have
worked closely together in the past, we promise
you what we have promised ourselves, that
we will do our utmost in our part of the world
to present the future generations with some-
thing that is worthwhile.
We feel in our part of the world-I feel per-
sonally that my life in itself is probably spent,
if it means anything to me at this stage, it
means as much as I can give them or make in
the way of a contribution for a better future for
them, a future of peace with honor, a lasting
peace that can enable them to live with it, to
develop the potential that is there, to have a
better life.
This is your dream, sir, that you are turn-
ing into a reality, as far as the world is con-
cerned. This is our dream in our part of the
world. We will do our utmost, and we are in-
deed proud to have the same objective, to
share it, as we are proud of our friendship,
and will always be.
I can only pray that I live up to the expecta-
tions always of my people, plus of my friends,
and no words can come easily to me by which
I can express our very deep gratitude, sir, for
all your kindness to us, on behalf of my wife
and all the members of the Jordanian group
here tonight and to Mrs. Nixon, for your kind
hospitality, for your kind words which come
from your heart, sir, for the friendship of which
we are so proud.
31-870 - 75-9
79
