Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
will provide buffer stocks to insulate our-
selves against a temporary loss of foreign
supplies.
DEEPWATER PORTS
It is clear that in the foreseeable future,
we will have to import oil in large quan-
tities. We should do this as cheaply as we
can with minimal damage to the environ-
ment. Unfortunately, our present capabil-
ities are inadequate for these purposes.
The answer to this problem lies in deep-
water ports which can accommodate those
larger ships, providing important eco-
nomic advantages while reducing the risks
of collision and grounding. Recent studies
by the Council on Environmental Quality
demonstrate that we can expect consider-
ably less pollution if we use fewer but
larger tankers and deepwater facilities, as
opposed to the many small tankers and
conventional facilities which we would
otherwise need.
If we do not enlarge our deepwater port
capacity it is clear that both American
and foreign companies will expand oil
transshipment terminals in the Bahamas
and the Canadian Maritime Provinces.
From these terminals, oil will be brought
to our conventional ports by growing num-
bers of small and medium size transship-
ment vessels, thereby increasing the risks
of pollution from shipping operations and
accidents. At the same time, the United
States will lose the jobs and capital that
those foreign facilities provide.
Given these considerations, I believe
we must move forward with an ambitious
program to create new deepwater ports for
receiving petroleum imports.
The development of ports has usually
been a responsibility of State and local
governments and the private sector. How-
ever, States cannot issue licenses beyond
the three-mile limit. I am therefore pro-
posing legislation to permit the Depart-
ment of the Interior to issue such licenses.
Licensing would be contingent upon full
and proper evaluation of environmental
impact, and would provide for strict navi-
gation and safety, as well as proper land
use requirements. The proposed legisla-
tion specifically provides for Federal co-
operation with State and local authorities.
CONSERVING ENERGY
The abundance of America's natural
resources has been one of our greatest ad-
vantages in the past. But if this abundance
encourages us to take our resources for
granted, then it may well be a detriment
to our future.
Common sense clearly dictates that as
we expand the types and sources of energy
available to us for the future, we must
direct equal attention to conserving the
energy available to us today, and we must
explore means to limit future growth in
energy demand.
We as a nation must develop a national
energy conservation ethic. Industry can
help by designing products which conserve
energy and by using energy more effi-
ciently. All workers and consumers can
help by continually saving energy in their
day-to-day activities: by turning out
lights, tuning up automobiles, reducing
the use of air conditioning and heating,
and purchasing products which use
energy efficiently.
Government at all levels also has an
important role to play, both by conserving
energy directly, and by providing leader-
ship in energy conservation efforts.
I am directing today that an Office of
313
