Richard Nixon, 1973
[141]
May 3
European Community, and the
United States. It will require stable
and dependable relations between
suppliers and consumers of energy.
-Third, the United States will seek to
strengthen its ties with all its tradi-
tional friends in the Middle East and
restore bilateral relations where they
have been severed. In conditions of
security and peace, there are pros-
pects for new forms of cooperation,
in the interest of enhancing the in-
dependence of the area's nations.
-In the economic dimension particu-
larly, the United States can make a
unique contribution to progress and
stability. Where capital assistance is
not the greatest need, American tech-
nical and managerial skills can be a
major spur to modernization. Where
promising new development pro-
grams are being undertaken, the
United States can contribute re-
sources productively. If the peoples
of the area are to realize their aspira-
tions for a better future in conditions
of peace, economic rehabilitation and
development will be essential, and
the United States will do its share.
The United States is committed to
helping achieve these objectives.
SOUTH ASIA
The American interest in South Asia is
clearcut: we want the region to be a con-
tributor to global peace, not a threat to it.
We want the region to be an example to
the world of peaceful progress.
Last year in South Asia was a year of
rebuilding. Societies torn by political up-
heaval, war, and natural disaster took up
the tasks of reconstruction. The nations
of the subcontinent began reshaping the
relations among themselves. They began
rebuilding their relations with the world
outside. This is an arduous process, but
the United States has an important stake
in its success.
I have always believed that the United
States, uniquely among the major powers,
shared a common interest with the nations
of the subcontinent in their peace, inde-
pendence, and stability. Today this is more
true than ever. The United States has no
economic or strategic interest in a privi-
leged position, nor in forming ties directed
against any country inside the region or
outside the region, nor in altering the basic
political framework on the subcontinent.
We have an interest in seeing that no other
great power attempts this either—and we
believe the best insurance against this is a
stable regional system founded on the
secure independence of each nation in it.
The destiny of each nation of South Asia
should be for it to determine. The United
States serves its own interest by respect-
ing that right and helping them preserve
it.
As I wrote last October to my Advisory
Panel on South Asian Relief Assistance
after it reported to me on its visit to
Bangladesh, "The United States could not
and cannot ignore the needs and the
aspirations of the more than 700 million
South Asians. Our effort to join other na-
tions in meeting the most urgent needs
of those who live in this area has reflected
not only our compassion for them in their
distress but also our recognition that an
orderly society depends on the capacity
of governments to 'promote the general
welfare.'"
We therefore want to see Pakistan con-
solidate its integrity as a nation, restore its
economic vitality, and take its place
among the proud democratic nations of
453
