Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
guilt or innocence of Aaron Burr. Chief
Justice Marshall, sitting as a trial judge,
held that Jefferson, as President, had to
turn over the correspondence. Jefferson
refused.
What he did was to turn over a sum-
mary of the correspondence, all that he
considered was proper to be turned over
for the purposes of the trial.
And then Marshall, sitting as Chief
Justice, ruled for the President.
Now, why did Jefferson do that? Jeffer-
son didn't do that to protect Jefferson. He
did that to protect the Presidency. And
that is exactly what I will do in these
cases. It isn't for the purpose of protecting
the President; it is for the purpose of see-
ing that the Presidency, where great de-
cisions have to be made-and great de-
cisions cannot be made unless there is
very free flow of conversation, and that
means confidentiality—I have a respon-
sibility to protect that Presidency.
At the same time, I will do everything
I can to cooperate where there is a need
for Presidential participation.
I will come to you next-sorry.
PROSPECTS FOR GAS RATIONING
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Murray Light,
Buffalo Evening News. The American
people, sir, are very interested in one sub-
ject other than Watergate-
THE PRESIDENT. Really? [Laughter]
Q. Is gas rationing imminent?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear the last,
I am sorry.
Q. Is gas rationing imminent?
THE PRESIDENT. I will tell you a little
about my career that I didn't put in my
campaign folders when I ran for Con-
gress in 1946. I was once in OPA [Office
of Price Administration], and I was in tire
rationing. I suppose they put me in tire
rationing-this is just before I went into
the service; I was waiting for my service
call because I had worked in a service
station. But I didn't know anything about
tire rationing and neither did the man
above me who I don't think had ever been
in a service station, but we put out the
rationing regulations on tires, and we
were as fair as we could be. But also, I
found that if you get a bunch of govern-
ment bureaucrats-and in order to have
rationing you would have to have thou-
sands of them-making decisions with
regard to who is going to get this much,
this much, this much in rationing, if you
are going to try to do that in peacetime
when you do not have what we had in
wartime, you know, support for, you
know-"Don't use a C ration card when
you are only entitled to an A"-then you
were sort of disloyal or something, or un-
patriotic. If you do not have that behind
it, I can assure you that a rationing sys-
tem in peacetime, run by a group of well-
intentioned but being bureaucrats that
they are, gaining and feeling their power,
would be something that the American
people would resent very, very much.
Now, what we have asked the Congress
for is for a contingency plan in the event
that rationing becomes necessary. But in
the meantime, let me tell you, our goal
is to make it not necessary. I am not going
to pledge to this audience and I am not
going to pledge to the television audience
that rationing may never come. If you
have another war in the Mideast, if you
have a complete cutoff and not a resump-
tion of the flow of oil from the Mideast,
or some other disaster occurs, rationing
may come. But if, on the other hand, the
things that I recommended in my mes-
sage of a week ago for immediate action,
31-870 O 75 - 64
959
