Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 15 [296]
States Army, distinguished himself on 24 May
1969 while serving as a platoon sergeant with
Company A, 2d Battalion, 2d Infantry, 1st In-
fantry Division, near the village of Lang Sau,
An Loc Province, Republic of Vietnam. Com-
pany A was directed to assist a friendly unit
which was endangered by intense fire from a
North Vietnamese Battalion located in a
heavily fortified base camp. Sergeant Bondsteel
quickly organized the men of his platoon into
effective combat teams and spearheaded the
attack by destroying four enemy occupied bunk-
ers. He then raced some 200 meters under
heavy enemy fire to reach an adjoining platoon
which had begun to falter. After rallying this
unit and assisting their wounded, Sergeant
Bondsteel returned to his own sector with
critically needed munitions. Without pausing
he moved to the forefront and destroyed four
enemy occupied bunkers and a machine gun
which had threatened his advancing platoon.
Although painfully wounded by an enemy
grenade, Sergeant Bondsteel refused medical
attention and continued his assault by neu-
tralizing two more enemy bunkers nearby.
While searching one of these emplacements
Sergeant Bondsteel narrowly escaped death
when an enemy soldier detonated a grenade
at close range. Shortly thereafter, he ran to
the aid of a severely wounded officer and struck
down an enemy soldier who was threatening
the officer's life. Sergeant Bondsteel then con-
tinued to rally his men and to lead them
through the entrenched enemy until his com-
pany was relieved. His exemplary leadership
and great personal courage throughout the four-
hour battle ensured the success of his own and
nearby units, and resulted in the saving of
numerous lives of his fellow soldiers. By in-
dividual acts of bravery he destroyed ten enemy
bunkers and accounted for a large toll of the
enemy, including two key enemy commanders.
Staff Sergeant Bondsteel's conspicuous gal-
lantry and extraordinary heroism at the risk of
his life are in the highest traditions of the mili-
tary service and reflect great credit on him,
his unit and the United States Army.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of Amer-
ica, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3,
1863, has awarded in the name of The Congress
the Medal of Honor to
SERGEANT GARY B. BEIKIRCH
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
Sergeant Gary B. Beikirch, Medical Aidman,
Detachment B-24, Company B, 5th Special
Forces Group, 1st Special Forces, while serving
in Kontum Province, Republic of Vietnam,
distinguished himself during the defense of
Camp Dak Seang on April 1, 1970. On that
date, the allied defenders suffered a number of
casualties as a result of an intense, devastating
attack launched by the enemy from well-con-
cealed positions surrounding the camp. Ser-
geant Beikirch, with complete disregard for his
personal safety, moved unhesitatingly through
the withering enemy fire to his fallen comrades,
applied first aid to their wounds and assisted
them to the medical aid station. When in-
formed that a seriously injured American officer
was lying in an exposed position, Sergeant
Beikirch ran immediately through the hail of
fire. Although he was wounded seriously by
fragments from an exploding enemy mortar
shell, Sergeant Beikirch carried the officer to a
medical aid station. Ignoring his own serious
injuries, Sergeant Beikirch left the relative
safety of the medical bunker to search for and
evacuate other men who had been injured. He
was again wounded as he dragged a critically
injured Vietnamese soldier to the medical
bunker while simultaneously applying mouth-
to-mouth resuscitation to sustain his life. Ser-
geant Beikirch again refused treatment and
continued his search for other casualties until
he collapsed. Only then did he permit himself to
be treated. Sergeant Beikirch's conspicuous gal-
lantry in action, his complete devotion to the
welfare of his comrades, and his intrepidity at
the risk of his life are in keeping with the
highest traditions of the military service and
873
