[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
have found the conspiracy, if it was a
conspiracy, or the individual, then it
would have been worth it. As far as I am
concerned, I am no more of an expert on
that assassination than anybody else, but
my point is that wiretaps in the national
security area were very high in the Ken-
nedy Administration for a very good rea-
son; because there were many threats on
the President's life, because there were
national security problems, and that is
why that in that period of 1961 to '63.
there were wiretaps on news organizations,
on news people, on civil rights leaders,
and on other people. And I think they
were perfectly justified, and I am sur
that President Kennedy and his brother,
Robert Kennedy, would never have au-
thorized them, as I would never have
authorized them, unless he thought they
were in the national interest.
Q. Do you think then that threats to
assassinate the President merit more na-
tional security wiretaps particularly?
THE PRESIDENT. No. No, as far as I am
concerned. I was only suggesting that in
terms of those times-of those times--to
have the Oswald thing happen just
seemed so unbelievable. With his rec-
ord with his record that with every-
thing that everybody had on him, that
that fellow could have been where he was,
in a position to shoot the President of the
United States, seems to me to have been a
terrible breakdown in our protective
security areas.
I would like to say, however, that as
far as protection generally is concerned,
I don't like it, and my family does not
like it. Both of my daughters would prefer
to have no Secret Service. I discussed it
with the Secret Service. They say they
have too many threats, and so they have
to have it. My wife does not want to have
Secret Service, and I would prefer and
I recommended this just 3 days ago to
cut my detail by one third, because I no-
ticed there were criticisms of how much
the Secret Service is spending.
Let me say that we always are going to
have threats against the President, but I
frankly think that one man probably is
as good against a threat as a hundred.
That is my view, but my view does not
happen to be in a majority there, and it
does not happen to agree with the Con-
gress so I will still have a great number
of Secret Service around me, more than
I want, more than my family wants.
WATERGATE INVESTIGATION
[20] Q. Mr. President, during March
and April, you received from your staff on
several occasions
occasions information about
criminal wrongdoing and some indica-
tion that members of your staff might
have been involved. My question, sir, is
why didn't you turn this information over
immediately to the prosecutors instead of
having your own staff continue to make
these investigations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, for the very ob-
vious reason that in March, for example,
the man that was in constant contact with
the prosecutors was my Counsel, Mr.
Dean. Mr. Dean was talking to Mr.
Petersen. I assumed that anything he was
telling me he was telling the prosecutors.
And in April, after Mr. Dean left the in-
vestigation, Mr. Ehrlichman was in
charge. I would assume and inciden-
tally, Mr. Ehrlichman did talk to Mr.
Kleindienst that is why it was done that
way. The President does not pick up the
phone and call the Attorney General
724
