Appendix B
February
21 The President directed the Secretaries of
Commerce and Labor to certify the Bernie
Shoe Company of Haverhill, Mass., and its
workers as eligible to apply for adjustment
assistance under the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962.
21 The President sent messages of condolence
to Col. Mu'ammar al-Qadhafi, Chairman
of the Revolutionary Council of Libya, and
to Anwar el-Sadat, President of the Arab
Republic of Egypt, on the shooting down
of a Libyan commercial airliner over the
Sinai Desert by Israeli fighter planes.
22 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with the bipartisan Con-
gressional leadership.
22 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for approximately 200 Sena-
tors and Representatives to thank those
Members of Congress who had supported
him over the past 4 years on his Vietnam
policies.
23 The President held a breakfast meeting at
the White House with William P. Rogers,
Secretary of State, William J. Porter, Un-
der Secretary of State for Political Affairs,
William H. Sullivan, Assistant Secretary of
State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, and
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, for con-
sultation prior to the convening of the In-
ternational Conference on Vietnam in Paris
on February 26.
23 Hafez Ismail, National Security Adviser to
the President of the Arab Republic of
Egypt, met with the President at the White
House.
23 Ambassador John A. Volpe met with the
President at the White House prior to as-
suming his post as United States Ambas-
sador to Italy.
February
23 The King and Queen of the Mardi Gras
1973 Washington Carnival Ball, Gordon
Lambert, of Shreveport, La., and Melanie
Roemer, of Bossier City, La., called on the
President at the White House. They were
accompanied by Representative Joe D.
Waggoner, Jr., of Louisiana, and 32 Mardi
Gras queens and 24 Mardi Gras princesses.
27 Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, Apostolic
Delegate to the United States, paid a fare-
well call on the President at the White
House.
28 The President and the First Lady hosted a
dinner at the White House for Governors
who were in Washington attending the Na-
tional Governors Conference.
March
2 Representative Paul Findley of Illinois met
with the President at the White House.
2 Ambassadors Miguel Solano Lopez of Para-
guay, Frederick Hilborn Talbot of Guyana,
Haraldur Kroyer of Iceland, M. Hossain
Ali of Bangladesh, Ahmedou Ould Abdal-
lah of Mauritania, and Mohamed Khir
Johari of Malaysia presented their creden-
tials to the President in ceremonies in the
Blue Room at the White House.
3 The Quadriad-Secretary of the Treas-
ury George P. Shultz, Director Roy L. Ash
of the Office of Management and Budget,
Chairman Hebert Stein of the Council of
Economic Advisers, and Chairman Arthur
F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board-
met with the President at the White House.
3 In an "Evening at the White House,"
Sammy Davis, Jr., entertained the Presi
dent and the First Lady and their guests.
Among those attending were Members of
Congress and the Apollo 17 astronauts,
Capt. Eugene A. Cerman, USN, Capt. Ron-
ald E. Evans, USN, and Dr. Harrison H.
Schmitt.
1068
