Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 24 [58]
sible the continued growth of Federal ef-
forts to meet human needs-while at the
same time helping to prevent a balloon-
ing budget deficit that could lead to higher
taxes, higher prices, higher interest rates
for all Americans.
Despite what some people say, fiscal
responsibility is not just a rich man's con-
cern. If we were to spend our economy
into a tailspin in the name of social wel-
fare, we would only be punishing those
we sought to help. Over the course of our
history, the free American economy has
done more to combat poverty and to raise
our standard of living than any
government program imaginable. The
stable, healthy growth of our economy
must remain the cornerstone of all of our
human resources policies in the 1970's.
To our great credit we Americans are a
restless and impatient people—we are a
nation of idealists. We dream of eradicat-
ing poverty and hunger, discrimination,
ignorance, disease, and fear, and we would
like to do it all today. But in order to
reach these goals, we need to connect this
warmhearted impatience of ours with
another equally American trait-and that
is levelheaded common sense.
We need to forge a new approach to
human services in this country-an ap-
proach which will treat people as more
than just statistics—an approach which
recognizes that problems like poverty and
unemployment, health care and the costs
of education are more than cold abstrac-
tions in a government file drawer.
I know how tough these problems are,
because I grew up with them. But I also
know that with the right kind of help
and the right kind of spirit they can be
overcome.
I believe that no American family
should be denied good health care be-
cause of inability to pay. But I also believe
that no family should be deprived of the
freedom to make its own health care
arrangements without bureaucratic
meddling.
I believe that no boy or girl should be
denied a quality education. But I also
believe that no child should have to ride
a bus miles away from his neighborhood
school in order to achieve an arbitrary
racial balance.
I believe that no American family
should have to suffer for lack of income
or to break up because the welfare regu-
lations encourage it. But I also believe
that we should never make it more com-
fortable or more profitable to live on a
welfare check than on a paycheck.
I believe that government must be gen-
erous and humane. But I also believe that
government must be economically re-
sponsible. We must reform or end pro-
grams that do not work. We must dis-
continue those programs that have served
their purpose, so that our limited resources.
can be applied to programs that produce
100 cents worth of human benefits for
every tax dollar spent.
Working together to meet human needs
and unlock human potential is the great-
est adventure upon which any people can
embark. I pledge continued, strong Fed-
eral leadership in this work. But we have
learned the hard way that Washington
cannot do the whole job by itself. State
and local governments, private institu-
tions, and each individual American must
do their part as well.
Let us give all our citizens the help they
need. But let us also remember that each
of us bears a basic obligation to help our-
selves and to help our fellow man, and no
131
