[122] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Communist countries for mutual re-
duction of forces, we, on our side, reduce
our forces, there will be no deal. And
you wouldn't make a deal if you were
in their position, either.
What I am simply saying is this: Those
who would slash the defense budget today
and put us in a secondary position with
regard to those with whom we will be
dealing-those who would do that will
have to take upon their hands the respon-
sibility for sabotaging the peace initiatives
that presently seem so promising and for
destroying any chance for getting further
arms limitation.
Let me just lay it right on the line. I
have been in this office for 4 years, and I
will be here for the balance of this 4 years.
But after me there will be other Presi-
dents. Some will be Democrats, some will
be Republicans. But the most important
thing for us to remember is this: The
United States is the great guardian of
peace and freedom in the world. There is
no other country that is going to do it if
we aren't. But a strong United States, and
one that is respected, is the one that can
be the guardian. And I say to you, I have
always felt that organized labor under-
stood this and that the American work-
men and others understood it across this
country better than anybody else.
But I want you to know, don't ever
send the President, whoever he is, to the
conference table with another nation as
the head of the second strongest nation in
the world. Let's be sure of that.
I mentioned respect. All of us, I think,
have been moved and inspired as our
prisoners of war have returned. When you
think of what these men have gone
through-years in confinement, several
of them over 4 years in solitary without
ever seeing an American, seeing only their
captors in that period--and then see them
to come down off those planes, thin, yes,
but standing so strong and tall, saluting
the American flag, I have just never been
as proud to be an American as when
those men came back.
One of them told me just the other day,
he said, "Mr. President, we wouldn't have
been standing like that if you had made
the kind of deal that some had suggested,
which was give us our prisoners and in
return we will get out, because our slogan
in that prison camp in Hanoi was 'Home
With Honor.'" And I want you to know
that those men couldn't have come back-
and I say this as a statement of fact-un-
less we had had support from many in
this room and those you represent across
this country.
I remember in 1970 when I had to
order the destruction of Communist sanc-
tuaries in Cambodia. I remember then it
seemed that I was virtually alone, and
one day a very exciting thing happened—
the hardhats marched in New York City.
And for the first time the press began to
realize that while a majority of them
thought that this was not in the interest
and that the country didn't support it, they
realized that maybe the people knew bet-
ter and the people supported doing what
is right, and that is what you did by that
march, and I express my appreciation to
you.
There were other tough decisions
when I had to order the bombing of North
Vietnam and the mining of Haiphong,
May 8, 1972. Oh, you remember reading
what the papers said, and you heard about
it on television-what they said. I under-
stand it, I understand legitimate criticism.
I respect it.
But they said, "This is going to torpedo
the summit, and this is going to risk the
294
