Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 10 [74]
Since I took office, Federal assistance
for State and local law enforcement au-
thorities has grown from over $100 mil-
lion to over $1 billion. We are training
over 40,000 local law enforcement officers
in the control and prevention of drug
abuse.
This year more than 1,200 State and
local police officers will graduate from the
new FBI Academy, and I plan to increase
assistance next year to local law enforce-
ment to over $1,200 million.
Crime costs Americans twice. It costs
first in lives lost, in injuries, in property
loss, in increased insurance rates, in being
fearful for your own safety as you go
about
your work.
And second, crime costs in the taxes
that go to maintain police forces, courts,
jails, other means of enforcement.
It is a breach of faith with those who are
paying the cost of crime, human as well as
financial, to be lenient with the criminal.
There are those who say that law and
order are just code words for repression
and bigotry. That is dangerous nonsense.
Law and order are code words for good-
ness and decency in America.
Crime is color blind. Let those who
doubt this talk to the poor, the minorities,
the inner-city dwellers, who are the most
frequent victims of crime. There is noth-
ing disgraceful, nothing to be ashamed of,
about Americans wanting to live in a law-
abiding country.
I intend to do everything in my power
to see that the American people get all the
law and order they are paying for. Our
progress in this effort has been encourag-
ing. The latest FBI figures show that for
the first 9 months of 1972, the growth rate
of serious crime in America was reduced
to I percent. That is the lowest rate of in-
crease since 1960.
In 83 of our major cities, serious crime
has actually been reduced, and in the Dis-
trict of Columbia it has been cut in half
since 1969. Convictions for organized
crime have more than doubled in the last
4 years. The rate of new heroin addiction
has dramatically decreased.
These are the positive results of refusing
to compromise with the forces of crime,
refusing to accept the notion that law-
lessness is inevitable in America. We have
the freedom to choose the kind of nation
we want, and we do not choose to live with
crime.
The Federal Government can help pro-
vide resources. It can help provide leader-
ship. It can act with its own jurisdiction.
But in the end, one of the best resources
we have, one of the greatest safeguards
to public peace, is the active concern of
the law-abiding American citizen. The
war against crime is not just the job of the
FBI and the State and local police; it is
your job, everybody's job. It is the very es-
sence of good citizenship to act when and
where we see crime being committed.
Citizens in some high crime areas have
gathered together to work with the police
to protect lives and property, to prevent
crime. They have recognized the simple
fact that we are going to have a crime
problem as long as we are willing to put
up with it, and most Americans are not
willing to put up with it any longer.
When I saw and heard the remarks of
our returning prisoners of war, so strong
and confident and proud, I realized that
we were seeing men of tough moral fiber,
men who reflected, despite their long ab-
sence from America, what America is all
about.
Just as they are returning home to
America, I believe that today we see
America returning to the basic truths that
183
