[251] Sept. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
countries and which favor some at the ex-
pense of others.
Fourth, and finally, we, along with
other industrialized nations, are seeking
ways to improve trading relationships
with the less-developed countries and
with countries with differing economic
and political systems.
In order to attain these goals, we need
the legislative authority contained in the
trade bill which I proposed to the Con-
gress last April. I am particularly pleased
and encouraged by the progress which the
House Ways and Means Committee is
now making on this legislation.
I am confident that the major interna-
tional effort which my delegation will
help to launch can lay the foundation for
an improved world economic order which
can help increase the prosperity of all
Americans, and of people throughout the
world. I am heartened by the interna-
tional consensus which has led to these
negotiations. The way is now open for an
historic effort of joint statesmanship. If
we approach these negotiations in this
spirit, there will be no losers-we can all
benefit. And their success, by helping to
create a more stable and more prosperous
world, will be an essential ingredient in
achieving our goal of world peace.
NOTE: The United States delegation to the
trade negotiations in Tokyo was headed by
George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury,
and Ambassador William D Eberle, Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations. Secre-
tary Shultz also headed the delegation to the
meeting on the world's monetary system in
Nairobi.
252 Radio Address About a Special Message to the
Congress on National Legislative Goals.
September 9, 1973
Good afternoon:
Now that the Congress has returned
from its August recess, it is important that
we focus our attention on what the Con-
gress and the Administration can do to-
gether to improve the well-being of all
the American people.
Tomorrow, I shall send to the Con-
gress an extensive special message high-
lighting more than 50 major legislative
proposals which this Administration has
urged and which still await final Con-
gressional action. Each of these messages
is a measure in which you have a stake,
because the needs it addresses are your
needs.
Today, I want to share with you some
thoughts about these proposals and about
the way in which together we can best
advance the business of the people.
In these few minutes, I shall not run
through all the details, or even all the
proposals. Those will be spelled out in
tomorrow's message. What I do want to
do is to focus on some of the highlights,
to explain why I believe action is needed
promptly, and to indicate how you can
help get that action.
Together, the Congress and the Admin-
istration have a heavy legislative work-
load in these remaining months of 1973-
We were elected less as Republicans or
Democrats than as public officials
charged with a public responsibility. The
work to be done is your work, and every
week's delay is a week of your time lost.
756
