Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
fice is now a part of the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare. In addi-
tion to playing an important role in form-
ing Administration policy on consumer
affairs and helping to educate the public
on better ways to make consumer choices,
the office seeks to represent consumer
interests in testimony before the Congress
and acts as a general ombudsman for the
individual consumer.
I am convinced that we can do a good
job for the consumer without excessive
Federal intervention which could destroy
the freedom of the American market-
place. However, I believe that more
should be done in this field. To that end,
I outlined this spring appropriate legis-
lative specifications for establishing a
separate Consumer Protection Agency
and I am prepared to work further with
the Congress on this issue.
VOLUNTEERISM
More than two years ago, in order to
advance our tradition of voluntary action,
I created a new Federal agency called
ACTION. That agency is now responsible
for directing federally funded domestic
volunteer programs as well as the Peace
Corps. ACTION has now proved to be an
effective way of encouraging greater vol-
untary action here and abroad, and I am
now anxious to place it on a more perma-
nent footing. Accordingly, I ask that the
Congress act this fall to provide legisla-
tive authority for this agency. Appropriate
language for this legislation was agreed to
prior to the August recess by a bipartisan
group of sponsors in the House and Senate
and by the Administration. I hope that
this legislation will soon be sent to me for
signature.
BUILDING BETTER COMMUNITIES
As we look back over the past decade,
we can take pride in the fact that we have
substantially slowed the processes of social
upheaval in our cities. Yet by any yard-
stick, there is a great deal of work ahead
if we are to make life in our communities
as healthy and enriching as it should be.
It would be reassuring to believe that
the expensive Federal Government pro-
grams of the past have made great inroads
on our urban problems, but that is clearly
not the case. Many of the programs de-
signed for this purpose, such as urban
renewal and the Model Cities experiment,
have not done the job that was expected
of them and often have had a counter-
productive impact. Consequently, I have
recommended they be scrapped. We have
learned from experience that we cannot
cure our social ills simply by throwing
money at them or dictating prescriptions
from Washington.
What we are seeking now is a set of new
approaches and a set of new programs:
we are seeking change that works. My
Administration has proposed a series of
initiatives which would guide us along a
more productive path. I have been keenly
disappointed that some Members of the
Congress seem so interested in continuing
programs that are proven failures that
we are unable to gain a full hearing for
new approaches that clearly deserve a
chance.
So far, the only significant legislative
breakthrough this year has been the en-
actment of a modified highway bill, per-
mitting some of the money in the Highway
Trust Fund to be used for vitally needed
mass transit systems. This is a concept
which I vigorously advocated and I signed
777
