Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 28 [374]
On the same day, the White House released a
fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the Comprehensive Employment and Train-
ing Act of 1973. Participants in the Washing-
ton news briefing were Melvin R. Laird, Coun-
sellor to the President for Domestic Affairs;
and Peter J. Brennan, Secretary, and Wil-
liam H. Kolberg, Assistant Secretary for Man-
power, Department of Labor.
373 Statement on Signing a Bill Establishing the
Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial Grove
on the Potomac. December 28, 1973
I AM pleased to sign House Joint Resolu-
tion 858 authorizing the Secretary of the
Interior to cooperate with the Committee
for a Lyndon Baines Johnson Memorial
Grove on the Potomac and the Society
for a More Beautiful National Capital in
developing a living memorial to President
Lyndon Johnson.
This memorial will be in the form of a
grove of trees located at Lady Bird John-
son Park.
Lyndon Johnson's long public career
was devoted to providing a better life for
his fellow man. His accomplishments were
vibrant and vital and not capable of being
conveyed through the hard and definitive
constraints of marble or bronze. It is fitting
that his memorial in the Nation's Capital
should reflect this fact and that he should
be remembered in a manner that reflects
the concern he felt for the quality of the
world in which we live.
It is especially appropriate that this
memorial should complement the great
work of Mrs. Johnson, who has done so
much to make Americans more aware of
their natural heritage. She shared with
him the public tasks to which he set him-
self, and in this memorial, their achieve-
ments will be remembered together.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 858 is Public Law
93-211 (87 Stat. 909).
The President telephoned Mrs. Lyndon John-
son to inform her that he had signed the bill.
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
374 Statement on Signing the Endangered Species Act
of 1973. December 28, 1973
I HAVE today signed S. 1983, the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973. At a time
when Americans are more concerned than
ever with conserving our natural resources,
this legislation provides the Federal Gov-
ernment with needed authority to protect
an irreplaceable part of our national
heritage-threatened wildlife.
This important measure grants the
Government both the authority to make
early identification of endangered species
and the means to act quickly and thor-
oughly to save them from extinction. It
also puts into effect the Convention on In-
ternational Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora signed in Wash-
ington on March 3, 1973.
Nothing is more priceless and more
worthy of preservation than the rich array
of animal life with which our country has
1027
