[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are encouraged by the growth and
success of African institutions of regional
cooperation. The recent creation of the
African Development Fund is a promis-
ing example of such African initiatives.
Our interests in supporting Africa's de-
velopment efforts rests on many bases. A
central motive is our humanitarian con-
cern. We also believe that as the quality
of life improves on the continent, so will
the prospects for regional peace. In addi-
tion a developing African economy will
mean expanding potential markets for
American goods. Moreover, Africa is be-
coming a major source of energy for the
United States and Western Europe. Libya
is one of the world's important producers
of oil; Nigeria's oil production is increas-
ing; Algerian natural gas is a rapidly
growing source of world energy. One
fourth of the world's known uranium ore
reserves are in Africa. As the West seeks
new and alternative sources of energy,
African development becomes increasingly
important.
There should be no illusions about the
barriers to economic progress in Africa.
The average per capita Gross National
Product of most African nations ranges be-
tween $100 and $200 a year. Subsistence
agriculture is the principal means of live-
lihood for much of their population. Mal-
nutrition and disease are widespread.
Africa still needs to build its social infra-
structure-education and technical skills,
public health, new methods of agricultural
production, and improved transport links
within nations and on a regional scale.
The United States can be proud of its
record of direct development assistance to
Africa. We have assisted Africa both
through bilateral aid and by contributing
over 30 percent of the funds provided to
Africa by international agencies. In this
Administration, in spite of limited re-
sources available for our total foreign aid
program, we have increased our assistance
to Africa in each of the last three years.
In 1972 our bilateral and multilateral aid
was $600 million-up from $550 million
in 1971 and $450 million in 1970. Our
programs have reflected an increasing
emphasis on areas of technical assistance
that are relevant to broad regional needs,
such as food and livestock production and
regional transportation systems. Two
thousand four hundred Peace Corps vol-
unteers are currently serving in Africa,
bringing needed skills and demonstrating
America's commitment to helping others.
American direct private investment in
Africa has almost doubled in the last four
years, reaching a total of $4 billion, and
75 percent of that total is in Africa's de-
veloping countries. We have promoted
trade and development in Africa through
our Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
tion (OPIC), which promotes the flow
of American capital to the developing
world, and through the guarantee and
other facilities of the Export-Import Bank,
whose long-term loans for African trade
reached a record total of $113 million in
1972.
American firms can be a conduit for
the transfer of skills, resources, and tech-
nology. The productive impact of these
enterprises may be the most direct as well
as the most reliable outside stimulus to
the raising of living standards in develop-
ing Africa.
Obviously such private activity must be
undertaken in ways consistent with the
sovereignty and policies of African gov-
ernments. We accept the basic principle
of the Charter of the Organization of
African Unity that the natural and hu-
man resources of Africa must be harnessed
462
