Richard Nixon, 1973
June 30 [193]
It is particularly urgent that steps to
encourage energy conservation begin at
once. Today, therefore, I have announced
a program to reduce the Nation's antici-
pated energy demand by 5 percent over
the next twelve months. To provide lead-
ership in achieving that goal, the Federal
Government will reduce its anticipated
energy demand by 7 percent during this
same period.
The success of our national effort is
primarily in the hands of the American
people. Nearly three-quarters of the gaso-
line used in America is consumed by auto-
mobiles. Thus, significant gasoline savings
will be realized if the American people
will change their driving patterns. It is
estimated that a car traveling at 50 miles
per hour consumes 20 to 25 percent less
fuel per mile than it would at 70 miles
per hour. Consequently, I am asking
Americans voluntarily to reduce the speed
at which they drive this summer.
As part of this effort, I urge you to work
with your legislature on reducing highway
speed limits in your State, taking into ac-
count the objectives of mobility, safety
and energy conservation. I would also urge
you to consider the various actions being
taken by the Federal Government to save
on the energy it uses, and to adopt as
many of these measures as are appropriate
for your own State.
Americans have the chance to make a
virtue of necessity this summer by taking
the current energy pinch as an occasion
to begin developing not just stopgap meas-
ures but a new and enduring energy con-
servation ethic for the future. You can
play a major role in making this effort
successful. I hope it will have your strong
support.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of identical letters addressed
to the Governors of the States was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
193 Statement About “Walk a Mile for Your Health Day.”
June 30, 1973
THIS Sunday scores of Americans, in-
cluding Members of the Congress, health
and athletic associations, and the Presi-
dent's Council on Physical Fitness and
Sports, will join in celebrating "Walk a
Mile for Your Health Day." I heartily
join in saluting this observance.
Whether out of habit or inclination,
millions of men and women in this coun-
try do not reap the benefits that simple
walking will provide. Yet beyond the obvi-
ous health benefits of walking, I know
from personal experience that long walks
are refreshing exercises of the mind as well
as the body. It offers time for reflection
and time for personal thought.
"Walk a Mile for Your Health Day"
this weekend is an opportunity for all
Americans to recognize the many health
benefits of walking. It is my hope that we
will continue this and other important
physical fitness programs on every day
thereafter.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
631
