[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
sales we could discourage our Latin neigh-
bors from diverting money to military
equipment and away from development
needs have proved unrealistic. And the
cost to us has been considerable: in fric-
tion with Latin American governments
because of our paternalism, and in valua-
ble military relationships which, in turn,
provide an important channel for com-
munication across a wide spectrum and
influence our total relationships. The
domestic costs are also high: in lost em-
ployment for our workers, lost profits for
business, and loss of balance of payments
advantages for our nation.
THE INTER-AMERICAN SYSTEM
Beyond our purely bilateral relations,
there are important institutions and
forums in which several or all of the states
of the Americas are associated. And for
some of these institutions, a moment of
truth has arrived.
In 1822, the United States established
diplomatic relations with Colombia. We
thus became the first nation outside Latin
America to recognize the independence
and sovereignty of a Latin American
state. Over the ensuing 150 years,
formal and informal bonds linking
the nations of the Western Hemisphere
have expanded and grown strong. Gradu-
ally, machinery was developed to provide
for increasing cooperation and consulta-
tion in this family of nations. It makes up
what is called the inter-American system.
It has been said that if this machinery had
not existed, we would have been forced to
invent it. But it does exist--in the Rio
Treaty; in the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank; in the Organization of
American States and its associated bodies,
including the Economic and Social Coun-
cil, the Council for Science, Education and
Culture; and in the many other groups
and organizations through which we work
together.
The question now facing us is not
whether these organizations have served
useful purposes in the past, but whether
they are organized to best serve the cur-
rent interests of the Americas.
In a thoughtful discussion I had not
long ago with Dr. Carlos Sanz de San-
tamaria, the distinguished Latin Ameri-
can diplomat and economist, he argued
that, "The time is ripe to begin developing
new forms of hemispheric cooperation."
He suggested: "We should identify the
many areas in which the best interests of
Latin America and the United States con-
verge. Our joint interests in improving the
quality of life everywhere in this hemi-
sphere are overriding. They far surpass the
issues that have brought about confronta-
tion in recent years or have led many to
focus on the divergent interests of Latin
America and the United States."
I agree. There has been an unfortunate
tendency among some governments, in
some organizations, to make forums for
cooperation into arenas of confrontation.
This phenomenon was evident at the
recent meeting of the UN Security Coun-
cil in Panama. There has also been a
tendency to develop Latin American posi-
tions often on a lowest-common-denomi-
nator basis-which fail to take realistic
account of viewpoints strongly held by the
United States. These efforts tend to pro-
voke reactions contrary to those sought.
We must recognize the dangers inherent
in such an approach.
We should not deal with important
questions in an emotional mood or react
out of pique or frustration. The kind of
mature partnership we all seek calls for
436
