[174] June 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
ever, when we have shortages and sharply
rising prices of food here at home, I have
made this basic decision: In allocating the
products of America's farms between mar-
kets abroad and those in the United
States, we must put the American con-
sumer first.
Therefore, I have decided that a new
system for export controls on food prod-
ucts is needed a system designed to hold
the price of animal feedstuffs and other
grains in the American market to levels
that will make it possible to produce meat
and eggs and milk at prices you can afford.
I shall ask the Congress, on an urgent
basis, to give me the new and more flexible
authority needed to impose such a system.
In exercising such authority, this will be
my policy: We will keep the export com-
mitments we have made as a nation. We
shall also consult with other countries to
seek their cooperation in resolving the
worldwide problem of rising food prices.
But we will not let foreign sales price meat
and eggs off the American table.
I have also taken another action today
to stop the rise in the cost of living. I have
ordered the Internal Revenue Service to
begin immediately a thoroughgoing audit
of the books of companies which have
raised their prices more than 1/2 percent
above the January ceiling.
The purpose of the audit will be to find
out whether these increases were justified
by rising costs. If they were not, the prices
will be rolled back.
The battle against inflation is every-
body's business. I have told you what the
Administration will do. There is also a
vital role for the Congress, as I explained
to the Congressional leaders just a few
moments ago.
The most important single thing the
Congress can do in holding down the cost
of living is to hold down the cost of gov-
ernment. For my part, I shall continue to
veto spending bills that we cannot afford,
no matter how noble-sounding their
names may be. If these budget-busters
become law, the money would come out
of your pocket-in higher prices, higher
taxes, or both.
There are several specific recommenda-
tions I have already made to the Congress
that will be important in holding down.
prices in the future. I again urge quick
action on all of these proposals.
Congress should give the President au-
thority to reduce tariffs in selected cases
in order to increase supplies of scarce
goods and thereby hold down their prices.
This action will help on such scarce items
as meat, plywood, and zinc. And in par-
ticular, the tariff we now have on im-
ported meat should be removed.
Congress should provide authority to
dispose of more surplus commodities now
held in Government stockpiles.
Congress should let us go ahead quickly
with the Alaska pipeline so that we can
combat the shortage of oil and gasoline we
otherwise will have. I will also soon send
to the Congress a major new set of pro-
posals on energy, spelling out new actions
I believe are necessary to help us meet our
energy needs and thereby lessen pressures
on fuel prices.
In its consideration of new farm legisla-
tion, it is vital that the Congress put high
production ahead of high prices, so that
farm prosperity will not be at the cost of
higher prices for the consumer. If the
Congress sends me a farm bill or any
other bill that I consider inflationary, I
shall veto that bill.
Beyond what the Administration can
do, beyond what the Congress can do,
there is a great deal you can do. The next
586
