[9] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
i
9
Statement on the Death of President Lyndon Baines
Johnson. January 22, 1973
TO PRESIDENT JOHNSON, the
"American Dream" was not a catch
phrase it was a reality of his own life.
He believed in America-in what America
could mean to all of its citizens and
what America could mean to the world.
In the service of that faith, he gave him-
self completely.
In over 30 years of public life, he knew
times of triumph and times of despair-
he knew controversy and adulation. Yet,
no matter what the mood of the moment,
at the center of his public life-and at the
center of his spirit-was an unshakable
conviction in the essential rightness of the
American experience.
As I said at the dedication of the Lyn-
don B. Johnson Library, he was a “parti-
san of principle." He was a dynamic
leader, a unique personality, and a man of
great ability and unshakable courage.
Twenty-eight days ago, America lost
one of its greatest Presidents, Harry S.
Truman, a man whose stature has grown
enormously as we have gained more per-
spective on his achievements.
It is particularly heartbreaking that
even as our flags fly at half-staff in Presi-
dent Truman's memory, another of our
leaders has fallen. Yet, just as their names
are linked in death, I believe that America
will come to understand that they are also
joined in greatness.
At this sad hour, as we mourn the loss
of two great leaders, all Americans will
realize more than ever their debt to those
who have gone before, and their obliga-
tion to carry on the work which they ad-
vanced with such devotion.
In my Inaugural Address just 2 days
ago I spoke of how my thoughts went back
to those who stood in that place before
me and of the dreams they had for
America. No man had greater dreams for
America than Lyndon Johnson. Even as
we mourn his death, we are grateful for
his life, which did so much to make those
dreams into realities. And we know that as
long as this Nation lives, so will his dreams
and his accomplishments.
NOTE: Former President Lyndon Baines John-
son, 64, died in Johnson City, Tex.
On January 24, 1973, President Nixon and
his family joined the cortege bearing the body
of President Johnson to the Capitol. During
ceremonies in the Capitol Rotunda, the Presi-
Ident laid a wreath at the bier of the former
President.
On January 25, the President and members
of his family attended funeral services for Presi-
dent Johnson at the National City Christian
Church.
10 Special Message to the Congress About the Death
of President Lyndon Baines
To the Congress of the United States:
It is my sad duty to inform you offi-
cially of the death of Lyndon Baines John-
son, the thirty-sixth President of the
United States.
Johnson. January 23, 1973
His loss is especially poignant for all of
us who knew him and worked with him in
the House and Senate. It was there that
he first became a legend and there that
he began to influence our destiny as a
16
