Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 3 [228]
the cost of the entire package of financial
services for the consumer. Furthermore,
the saver would be assured a fair return
on his money. In addition, thrift institu-
tions would be strengthened, so they would
no longer need the Government support
required in the past.
Recommendations 6 and 7, along with
the other recommendations, are designed
to promote adequate funds for consumer
needs, including housing finance. It is
clear that interest ceilings on FHA and
VA mortgage loans have failed to keep
costs down, as evidenced in part by the
widespread use of discount "points." At
the same time, these ceilings have re-
stricted the flow of private funds into
mortgage markets. I will urge that in-
dividual states follow our lead and re-
move similar barriers to housing finance
wherever such barriers exist.
The final recommendation would sub-
stantially broaden the base of housing fi-
nance. Although the final details have yet
to be worked out, active consideration is
being given to the creation of an income
tax credit tied to investments in housing
mortgages. Such a credit would be avail-
able to all lenders and could vary in direct
proportion to the percentage of invested
funds held in the form of such mortgages.
These recommendations are not the
only steps being taken to strengthen the
housing finance market. In my State of the
Union Message on Community Develop-
ment of March 8, 1973, I pledged that this
Administration would undertake a com-
prehensive evaluation of our housing poli-
cies and programs and would recommend
new policies to eliminate waste and better
serve the needy. An interagency task
force, under the leadership of Secretary
Lynn, is now completing that task, and
my recommendations will be presented to
the Congress in the near future.
My recommendations on restructuring
financial institutions represent a coordi-
nated approach to this challenge, and I
urge that they be considered as a pack-
age. For example, removing interest ceil-
ings will not make a positive contribution
unless banks and thrift institutions can
expand their deposit and lending services.
Flexibility and efficiency will be enhanced
by placing competing institutions on a
roughly equal footing with regard to three
essential considerations: deposit powers,
lending powers, and tax burdens. Finally,
the tax recommendation and the removal
of FHA and VA interest ceilings will help
ensure more adequate funds for housing.
The need for reform of our financial in-
stitutions is pressing. I urge the Congress
to give these proposals its prompt and
favorable consideration.
The White House,
August 3, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in a Depart-
ment of the Treasury publication entitled
"Recommendations for Change in the U.S.
Financial System-August 3, 1973" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 34 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the Na-
tion's financial institutions by George P. Shultz,
Secretary, and William E. Simon, Deputy Sec-
tary, Department of the Treasury.
685
