Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 31 [23]
23 The President's News Conference of
January 31, 1973
THE PRESIDENT. In view of the announce-
ment that has already been made this
morning,ยน I know that you will have ques-
tions on that and other matters, so we will
go right to the questions.
QUESTIONS
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT THIEU
[1.] I think Miss Thomas [Helen
Thomas, United Press International] has
the first question.
Q. Can you tell us whether you are go-
ing to meet with President Thieu some-
time this spring and also give us a better
feeling on Dr. Kissinger's trip, the pur-
pose and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. At some time this
spring I do plan to meet with President
Thieu. I have discussed the matter with
him in correspondence and I also dis-
cussed it yesterday in my meeting with the
Foreign Minister. It will be at a time
mutually convenient.
The UPI story, incidentally, was on the
mark except for the location. The loca-
tion we have agreed on will be the West-
ern White House this spring.
1 Earlier in the morning, Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler announced: The United
States and the Democratic Republic of Viet-
nam have agreed that Dr. Kissinger, Assistant
to the President of the United States, will visit
Hanoi from February 10 to 13, 1973, to discuss
with the Government of the Democratic Re-
public of Vietnam the postwar relationship be-
tween the two countries and other matters of
mutual concern.
DR. KISSINGER'S TRIP TO HANOI
As far as Dr. Kissinger's trip is con-
cerned, this is a matter that we feel is
very important in terms of developing the
postwar relationship with North Viet-
nam. When we look at this very intricate
agreement, which Dr. Kissinger so bril-
liantly briefed for the members of the
press, and if you have read it, you will see
why I use the word "intricate," we can see
that, insofar as its terms are concerned,
if the agreement is kept, there is no ques-
tion about the fact that we will have peace
in not only Vietnam but in Indochina for
a very long period of time. But the ques-
tion is whether both parties-in fact, all
parties involved-have a will to peace, if
they have incentives to peace, if they
have desire to peace.
Now, on this particular point, it is
necessary, of course, for us to talk to the
South Vietnamese, as we are. It is also
vitally important that we have a direct
communication with the North Vietnam-
ese. And Dr. Kissinger will be going to
Hanoi to meet with the top leaders of the
Government of the DRV. There he will
discuss the postwar relationship. He will,
of course, discuss the current status of
compliance with the peace agreements
which we have made, and he will also
discuss, in terms of postwar relationships,
the matter of the reconstruction program
for all of Indochina.
As the leaders probably reported after
my meeting with them the day after I an-
nounced the cease-fire agreement, I raised
53
