Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
dustry as a whole and I have provided for
entire industries under my import relief
proposals.
DEALING WITH UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES
The President of the United States
pos-
sesses a variety of authorities to deal with
unfair trade practices. Many of these au-
thorities must now be modernized if we
are to respond effectively and even-hand-
edly to unfair import competition at home
and to practices which unfairly prejudice
our export opportunities abroad.
To cope with unfair competitive prac-
tices in our own markets, my proposed
legislation would amend our antidumping
and countervailing duty laws to provide
for more expeditious investigations and
decisions. It would make a number of pro-
cedural and other changes in these laws
to guarantee their effective operation. The
bill would also amend the current statute
concerning patent infringement by sub-
jecting cases involving imports to judicial
proceedings similar to those which involve
domestic infringement, and by providing
for fair processes and effective action in
the event of court delays. I also propose
that the Federal Trade Commission Act
be amended to strengthen our ability to
deal with foreign producers whose cartel
or monopoly practices raise prices in our
market or otherwise harm our interest by
restraining trade.
In addition, I ask for a revision and ex-
tension of my authority to raise barriers
against countries which unreasonably or
unjustifiably restrict our exports. Exist-
ing law provides such authority only un-
der a complex array of conditions which
vary according to the practices or exports
involved. My proposed bill would sim-
plify the authority and its use. I would
prefer, of course, that other countries
agree to remove such restrictions on their
own, so that we should not have to use this
authority. But I will consider using it
whenever it becomes clear that our trad-
ing partners are unwilling to remove un-
reasonable or unjustifiable restrictions
against our exports.
OTHER MAJOR PROVISIONS
Most-Favored-Nation Authority. My
proposed legislation would grant the
President authority to extend most-favor-
ed-nation treatment to any country when
he deemed it in the national interest to
do so. Under my proposal, however, any
such extension to countries not now re-
ceiving most-favored-nation treatment
could be vetoed by a majority vote of
either the House or the Senate within a
three-month period.
This new authority would enable us to
carry out the trade agreement we have
negotiated with the Soviet Union and
thereby ensure that country's repayment
of its lend-lease debt. It would also en-
able us to fulfill our commitment to
Romania and to take advantage of oppor-
tunities to conclude beneficial agreements
with other countries which do not now
receive most-favored-nation treatment.
In the case of the Soviet Union, I recog-
nize the deep concern which many in the
Congress have expressed over the tax
levied on Soviet citizens wishing to emi-
grate to new countries. However, I do not
believe that a policy of denying most-
favored-nation treatment to Soviet ex-
ports is a proper or even an effective way
of dealing with this problem.
One of the most important elements of
our trade agreement with the Soviet Un-
ion is the clause which calls upon each
265
