[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
skepticism about Federal Government
omniscience and omnicompetence, and on
a strong reaffirmation of the right and the
capacity of individuals to chart their own
lives and solve their own problems through
State and local government and private
endeavor. We have achieved a wide va-
riety of significant reforms.
Now the progress made and the experi-
ence gained over the past four years,
together with the results of careful pro-
gram reviews which were conducted over
this period, have prepared us to seek
broader reforms in 1973 than any we have
requested before.
In the time since the outlines of these
proposals emerged in the new budget, in-
tense controversy and considerable mis-
understanding about both their purposes
and their effects have understandably
arisen among persons of goodwill on all
sides.
To provide a more rational, less emo-
tional basis for the national debate which
will-and properly should-surround my
recommendations, I would invite the Con-
gress to consider four basic principles
which I believe should govern our hu-
man resources policy in the 1970's:
-Government at all levels should seek
to support and nurture, rather than
limit, the diversity and freedom of
choice which are hallmarks of the
American system. The Federal Gov-
ernment in particular must work to
guarantee an equal chance at the
starting line by removing barriers
which might impede an individual's
opportunity to realize his or her full
potential.
-The Federal Government should con-
centrate more on providing incen-
tives and opening opportunities, and
less on delivering direct services.
Such programs of direct assistance to
individuals as the Federal Govern-
ment does conduct must provide
evenhanded treatment for all, and
must be carefully designed to ensure
that the benefits are actually re-
ceived by those who are intended to
receive them.
-Rather than stifling initiative by try-
ing to direct everything from Wash-
ington, Federal efforts should en-
courage State and local governments
to make those decisions and supply
those services for which their close-
ness to the people best qualifies them.
In addition, the Federal Government
should seek means of encouraging the
private sector to address social prob-
lems, thereby utilizing the market
mechanism to marshal resources
behind clearly stated national
objectives.
-Finally, all Federal policy must ad-
here to a strict standard of fiscal re-
sponsibility. Ballooning deficits which
spent our economy into a new infla-
tionary spiral or a recessionary tail-
spin in the name of social welfare
would punish most cruelly the very
people whom they seek to help. On
the other hand, continued additions
to a personal tax burden which has
already doubled since 1950 would re-
duce incentives for excellence and
would conflict directly with the goal
of allowing each individual to keep
as much as possible of what he or she
earns to permit maximum personal
freedom of choice.
The new post of Counsellor to the Pres-
ident for Human Resources, which I have
recently created within the Executive Of-
fice of the President, will provide a much-
needed focal point for our efforts to see
136
