[80] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
And in terms of privilege, I think we
could put it another way. I consider it my
constitutional responsibility to defend the
principle of separation of powers. I recog-
nize that many Members of the Congress
disagree with my interpretation of that
responsibility.
But while we are talking on that sub-
ject—and I will go on at some length here
because it may anticipate some of your
other questions-I am very proud of the
fact that in this Administration we have
been more forthcoming in terms of the
relationship between the executive, the
White House, and the Congress, than any
administration in my memory. We have
not drawn a curtain down and said that
there could be no information furnished
by members of the White House Staff be-
cause of their special relationship to the
President.
All we have said is that it must be under
certain circumstances, certain guidelines,
that do not infringe upon or impair the
separation of powers that are so essential
to the survival of our system.
In that connection, I might say that
I had mentioned previously that I was
once on the other side of the fence, but
what I am doing here in this case is co-
operating with the Congress in a way that
I asked the then President, Mr. Truman,
to cooperate with a committee of the Con-
gress 25 years ago and in which he refused.
I don't say that critically of him now-
he had his reasons, I have mine. But what
we asked for in the hearings on the Hiss
case—and all of you who covered it,
'Alger Hiss, a former State Department of-
ficial, was convicted of perjury in his testi-
mony before the House Un-American Activities
Committee during investigations into Commu-
nist activities by the committee.
like Bill Theis [J. William Theis, Hearst
Newspapers and Hearst Headline Service]
and others, will remember what we
asked for was not that the head of the
FBI or anybody from the White House
Staff testify. There was very widespread
information that there was a report of an
investigation that had been made in the
Administration about the Hiss case. We
asked for that report. We asked for the
FBI information with regard to that
report.
And Mr. Truman, the day we started
our investigation, issued an executive
order in which he ordered everybody in
the executive department to refuse to
cooperate with the committee under any
circumstances. The FBI refused all in-
formation. We got no report from the De-
partment of Justice. And we had to go
forward and break the case ourselves.
We did. And, to the credit of the Ad-
ministration, after we broke the case, they
proceeded to conduct the prosecution and
the FBI went into it.
I would like to say, incidentally, that
I talked to Mr. Hoover at that time. It
was with reluctance that he did not turn
over that information-reluctance, be-
cause he felt that the information, the in-
vestigation they had conducted, was very
pertinent to what the committee was
doing.
Now, I thought that decision was wrong.
And so when this Administration has come
in, I have always insisted that we should
cooperate with Members of the Congress
and with the committees of the Congress.
And that is why we have furnished in-
formation. But, however, I am not going
"See "Public Papers of the Presidents, Harry
S. Truman, 1948," Item 170 [4].
204
