Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 18 [261]
261 Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali
Bhutto of Pakistan. September 18, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Bhutto, all of
our distinguished guests from Pakistan,
and all of our other distinguished guests
from the United States:
Mr. Prime Minister, you are no
stranger to our country. You not only
have made many visits here, we are very
proud of the fact that in my native State
of California you attended the great Uni-
versity of California for 3 years.
I am no stranger to your country. I
have visited it with Mrs. Nixon when I
was Vice President on two occasions, on
two occasions or three occasions when I
was out of office, and then again in 1969.
As you come to our country today, how-
ever, you come in a different capacity. For
the first time, it is my honor on behalf of
all of our guests and the American people
to welcome you as the head of your gov-
ernment. In welcoming you, it gives me an
opportunity to remind the American
people and the people of Pakistan, and
for that matter the people of the world, of
the friendship that has bound our two
countries together for over a generation.
You, who have seen our country, know
that friendship. I, who have visited your
country, know it well.
I can only say that it is a friendship that
will continue in the years ahead. And I
can add this: that the independence and
the integrity of Pakistan is a cornerstone
of American foreign policy.
I can also add that our hearts have
gone out to you in the difficult times
through which Pakistan has passed over
the past few months—and years, for that
matter. And certainly you deserve the
congratulations of the whole world for the
that you have guided your country in
way
this era of trying to restore the nation after
the ravages of war. And as if that were
not enough, then to have come upon your
country one of the worst floods in history
would seem to have been too much for a
brave people, as your people are brave,
but also for a new leader.
But even in that period, too, your people
have shown that whether it is war or
whether it happens to be the ravages of
nature, you will survive and you will
come through stronger in the end, and
with your leadership, you have demon-
strated that over and over again.
In our meetings, we will, of course, dis-
cuss the bilateral issues which we have
between us in which we find ourselves
on basic agreement in so many areas. We
will discuss what contribution we can
make to an era of peace in the whole sub-
continent, as well as in the balance of
Asia, and I trust also we will have the op-
portunity to get your views on world prob-
lems generally, because no country in the
world can any longer be apart from the
rest of the world, and what happens half-
way around the world, in Pakistan, for
example, affects us, and what happens
halfway around the world from you affects
you. And so together, I am sure that our
talks will contribute to not only better
relations between our two countries but
also a more peaceful world for our chil-
dren in the years to come.
And finally, on one, shall we say, sym-
bolic note, as you know, we are having
this ceremony in the East Room, and only
a few of those who wanted to welcome you
could be here. I woke quite early this
morning, at 7:30, and it was raining, and
all of the splendid honor guards that had
795
