[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Energy Conservation be established in the
Department of the Interior to coordinate
the energy conservation programs which
are presently scattered throughout the
Federal establishment. This office will
conduct research and work with consumer
and environmental groups in their efforts
to educate consumers on ways to get the
greatest return on their energy dollar.
To provide consumers with further in-
formation, I am directing the Department
of Commerce, working with the Council
on Environmental Quality and the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, to de-
velop a voluntary system of energy effi-
ciency labels for major home appliances.
These labels should provide data on en-
ergy use as well as a rating comparing the
product's efficiency to other similar prod-
ucts. In addition, the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency will soon release the
results of its tests of fuel efficiency in auto-
mobiles.
There are other ways, too, in which
government can exercise leadership in this
field. I urge again, for example, that we
allow local officials to use money from
[the] Highway Trust Fund for mass transit
purposes. Greater reliance on mass transit
can do a great deal to help us conserve
gasoline.
The Federal Government can also lead
by example. The General Services Ad-
ministration, for instance, is constructing
a new Federal office building using ad-
vanced energy conservation techniques,
with a goal of reducing energy use by 20
percent over typical buildings of the same
size. At the same time, the National Bu-
reau of Standards is evaluating energy use
in a full-size house within its laboratories.
When this evaluation is complete, analyti-
cal techniques will be available to help
predict energy use for new dwellings. This
information, together with the experience
gained in the construction and operation
of the demonstration Federal building,
will assist architects and contractors to
design and construct energy-efficient
buildings.
Significant steps to upgrade insulation
standards on single and multi-family
dwellings were taken at my direction in
1971 and 1972, helping to reduce heat loss
and otherwise conserve energy in the resi-
dential sector. As soon as the results of
these important demonstration projects
are available, I will direct the Federal
Housing Administration to update its in-
sulation standards in light of what we have
learned and to consider their possible ex-
tension to mobile homes.
Finally, we should recognize that the
single most effective means of encourag-
ing energy conservation is to ensure that
energy prices reflect their true costs. By
eliminating regulations such as the current
ceiling on natural gas prices and by ensur-
ing that the costs of adequate environ-
mental controls are equitably allocated,
we can move toward more efficient dis-
tribution of our resources.
Energy conservation is a national neces-
sity, but I believe that it can be under-
taken most effectively on a voluntary basis.
If the challenge is ignored, the result will
be a danger of increased shortages, in-
creased prices, damage to the environ-
ment and the increased possibility that
conservation will have to be undertaken
by compulsory means in the future. There
should be no need for a nation which has
always been rich in energy to have to turn
to energy rationing. This is a part of the
314
