[255] Sept. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
penalties; what we need are more indi-
viduals who can go out and deal with the
pushers and the others in a more effective
way. And if we can just get the law en-
forcement tools and the law enforcement
personnel, we can turn around the drug
problem in the United States."
And so, we moved in the law enforce-
ment front. And we have moved very, very
heavily and very effectively at the Federal
level, and we have had cooperation from
States and local governments in that re-
spect. And those in law enforcement-and
I have met with many of them, in New
York, in Texas, in California, here in the
District of Columbia very, very often-
those in law enforcement, many of them,
feel that theirs is the most important
aspect of this problem.
And then a third area was brought to
my attention very, very effectively when
Dr. Jaffe came aboard, and that was, it
isn't the source that is important, yes—
or law enforcement, but the real way to
get a handle on this problem is through
treatment, treatment of those who become
addicted.
So, we went into a treatment program,
one that is not as spectacular as law en-
forcement and one that is not as spectacu-
lar as picking up a big supply of heroin
when it comes into the United States-
and there have been some very spectacular
achievements in that respect-but one
which is enormously important. And it is
interesting to note, and I am glad that
we had the opportunity to note, as this
conference begins that two-thirds of the
three-quarters of a billion dollars that we
are spending at the Federal level in the
'Dr. Jerome H. Jaffe was Director of the
Special Action Office for Drug Abuse Preven-
tion from the creation of the office in June 1971
until his resignation in June 1973-
treatment of the drug problem goes to the
treatment problem, rather than the others
that I have mentioned.
That indicates our sense of priorities
and also indicates the needs. It doesn't
mean that we are not spending as much
as we think we need to cut off the source
of supply; that is well funded. It doesn't
mean that we are not spending as much as
we think we should in the field of law en-
forcement. But it does mean that on the
treatment side, there needed to be an
enormous push given, and that is why at
the present time, as we look at the amount
that is being spent by the Federal Gov-
ernment, it is 10 times as much as it was
42 years ago when we began these
programs.
And then finally, there are others who
call on the President and his associates
and say, now all these things you are doing
are very, very important, but in the final
analysis you have got to stop the demand,
and the way to stop the demand is to
educate people. And so, you have noted
the educational program, the programs
that you have in your cities and in your
counties, also the programs in which the
National Advertising Council, the foot-
ball association, and the others run their
various advertisements to try to educate,
particularly, young people with regard to
the dangers in the whole field of hard
drugs.
So, let me summarize briefly what our
program is. I could summarize it in terms
that we are spending 10 times as much
money. I could summarize it in terms of
the fact that drug addiction is down. We
have turned the corner on drug addiction
in the United States-haven't solved the
problem, because we have a long way to
go. There is a long road after turning that
corner before we get to our goal of getting
788
