Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 7 [323]
proximately 15 percent in the supply of
heating oil for homes and offices and other
establishments. To be sure that there is
enough oil to go around for the entire
winter, all over the country, it will be
essential for all of us to live and work in
lower temperatures. We must ask every-
one to lower the thermostat in your home
by at least 6 degrees so that we can achieve
a national daytime average of 68 degrees.
Incidentally, my doctor tells me that in a
temperature of 66 to 68 degrees, you are
really more healthy than when it is 75 to
78, if that is any comfort. In offices, fac-
tories, and commercial establishments, we
must ask that you achieve the equivalent
of a 10-degree reduction by either lower-
ing the thermostat or curtailing working
hours.
Fourth, I am ordering additional re-
ductions in the consumption of energy by
the Federal Government. We have al-
ready taken steps to reduce the Govern-
ment's consumption by 7 percent. The
cuts must now go deeper and must be
made by every agency and every depart-
ment in the Government. I am directing
that daytime temperatures in Federal offi-
ces be reduced immediately to a level of
between 65 and 68 degrees, and that
means in this room, too, as well as in
every other room in the White House. In
addition, I am ordering that all vehicles
owned by the Federal Government—and
there are over a half-million of them-
travel no faster than 50 miles per hour ex-
cept in emergencies. This is a step which I
have also asked Governors, mayors, and
local officials to take immediately with
regard to vehicles under their authority.
Fifth, I am asking the Atomic Energy
Commission to speed up the licensing and
construction of nuclear plants. We must
seek to reduce the time required to bring
nuclear plants on line-nuclear plants
that can produce power-to bring them
on line from 10 years to 6 years, reduce
that time lag.
Sixth, I am asking that Governors and
mayors reinforce these actions by taking
appropriate steps at the State and local
level. We have already learned, for exam-
ple, from the State of Oregon, that con-
siderable amounts of energy can be saved
simply by curbing unnecessary lighting
and slightly altering the school year. I
am recommending that other communi-
ties follow this example and also seek ways
to stagger working hours, to encourage
greater use of mass transit and carpooling.
How many times have you gone along
the highway or the freeway, wherever the
case may be, and see hundreds and hun-
dreds of cars with only one individual in
that car? This we must all cooperate to
change.
Consistent with safety and economic
considerations, I am also asking Governors
to take steps to reduce highway speed lim-
its to 50 miles per hour. This action alone,
if it is adopted on a nationwide basis,
could save over 200,000 barrels of oil a
day just reducing the speed limit to 50
miles per hour.
Now, all of these actions will result in
substantial savings of energy. More than
that, most of these are actions that we can
take right now-without further delay.
The key to their success lies, however,
not just here in Washington but in every
home, in every community across this
country. If each of us joins in this effort,
joins with the spirit and the determination
that have always graced the American
character, then half the battle will already
be won.
But we should recognize that even these
steps, as essential as they are, may not be
917
