[340] Nov. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
it is going to be our ship carrying our
flag, or it is going to be another ship carry-
ing another flag, so let's have the Ameri-
can flag wherever we can, or at least
enough of those American flags so if we
have a crisis, we don't have to depend on
anybody else."
But let's think of what is in that ship-
oil. What does that oil do? It provides
the energy which makes our jobs. It pro-
vides the energy which heats our homes.
It provides the energy which lights this
room. I am even for television lights,
believe it or not, and it provides the en-
ergy for that. It provides the energy that
moves us from place to place, that trans-
ports us, and therefore, we have to have
that energy.
And so, I would say that there is no
group in America that understands inde-
pendence more and believes in it more
than the Seafarers Union. You believe in
it because you realize that the United
States should never have a situation where
we are dependent upon any other country
for our lifeline, in effect. The same is true
of energy.
The problem is: How can the United
States get into the position where we are
self-sufficient in energy? Because you all
know, we import oil; we import other
products which help us meet our energy
needs, because there are only 7 percent
of the people of the world living in the
United States, and we use 30 percent of all
the energy, in the United States. That
isn't bad; that is good. That means that
we are the richest, strongest people in the
world and that we have the highest
standard of living in the world. That is
why we need so much energy, and may it
always be that way.
But as we consider that fact, let us re-
member that we should set as a goal-
and this is the goal that I set 3 weeks ago
and repeated again last night-independ-
ence and self-sufficiency for the United
States in energy.
Let me tell you what it is. By the year
1980, if we go forward in the development
of our coal resources, of our shale oil re-
sources, of our nuclear power resources,
of our natural gas resources, and of
course, of our available oil resources in
Alaska and in the continental United
States, if we go forward as we can and
should go forward, by the year 1980, then
the United States, if it wishes and if it
becomes necessary, can provide all the
energy we need to provide our jobs, to
heat our homes, to light our homes, and
to provide our transportation. Project In-
dependence 1980, that is what I ask the
Americans in this audience who believe
so much in independence for your partic-
uiar group, and for what you are doing,
to enlist in today.
Let me say that on that particular proj
ect, it can be very exciting, because there
will be a fallout from it. As we develop
our nuclear power and our new uses for
coal and all the rest, we are going to
find that it is going to provide more jobs;
it is going to provide more opportunities;
it is going to provide breakthroughs in
science that we had never thought were
possible before, just as was the case when
we made the breakthrough in terms of the
Manhattan Project, when we made the
breakthrough in space.
Let me put it quite bluntly: Going to
the Moon was a great project, the Man-
hattan Project was a great project, becom-
ing self-sufficient in energy is a great
project. It is a great goal. It can be
achieved, and with your help-with your
980
