Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 15 [44]
proximately one-fifth of the Nation's land
is considered "public domain", and lacks
the protection of an overall management
policy with environmental safeguards.
Legislation is required to enable the Sec-
retary of the Interior to protect our en-
vironmental interest on those lands.
-Legacy of Parks. Under the Legacy
of Parks program which I initiated in
1971, 257 separate parcels of parklands
and underused Federal lands in all 50
States have been turned over to local con-
trol for park and recreational purposes.
Most of these parcels are near congested
urban areas, so that millions of citizens
can now have easy access to parklands. I
am pleased to announce today that 16
more parcels of Federal land will soon be
made available under this same program.ยน
We must not be content, however, with
just the Legacy of Parks program. New
authority is needed to revise the formula
for allocating grant funds to the States
from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund. More of these funds should be
channelled to States with large urban
populations.
-Mining on Public Lands. Under a
statute now over a century old, public
lands must be transferred to private
ownership at the request of any person
who discovers minerals on them. We thus
have no effective control over mining on
these properties. Because the public lands
belong to all Americans, this 1872 Min-
ing Act should be repealed and replaced
with new legislation which I shall send
to the Congress.
ยน A list of the 16 properties was issued by the
White House on the same day. Included were
lands in California, Colorado, Indiana, Kansas,
Michigan, New York, Ohio, Rhode Island,
Texas, and Washington.
-Mined Area Protection. Surface and
underground mining can too often cause
serious air and water pollution as well as
unnecessary destruction of wildlife habi-
tats and aesthetic and recreational areas.
New legislation with stringent perform-
ance standards is required to regulate
abuses of surface and underground min-
ing in a manner compatible with the
environment.
AMERICAN AGRICULTURE-A BASIC
NATIONAL RESOURCE
Nearly three-fifths of America's land is
in the stewardship of the farmer and the
rancher. We can be grateful that farmers
have been among our best conservation-
ists over the years. Farmers know better
than most that sound conservation means
better long-term production and improved
land values. More importantly, no one
respects and understands our soil and land
better than those who make their living
by the land.
But Americans know their farmers and
ranchers best for all they have done to
keep us the best-fed and best-clothed peo-
ple in the history of mankind. A forward-
looking agricultural economy is not only
essential for environmental progress, but
also to provide for our burgeoning food
and fiber needs.
My Administration is not going to ex-
press its goal for farmers in confusing
terms. Our goal, instead, is very simple.
The farmer wants, has earned, and de-
serves more freedom to make his own de-
cisions. The Nation wants and needs
expanded supplies of reasonably priced
goods and commodities.
These goals are complementary. Both
have been advanced by the basic philoso-
phy of the Agricultural Act of 1970. They
99
