Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 14 [358]
cooperation that we have received, the
voluntary cooperation from individual
Americans all across this country.
If that cooperation continues, it means
that, together with the Government ac-
tions that we will be taking, the cooper-
ation of industry and labor, the other in-
stitutions that I have mentioned, that we
are going to be able to deal with this prob-
lem in a way that is effective, one in which
everyone will sacrifice something, but in
which no one will be required to suffer as
a result of the energy crisis.
Mr. Simon has some other statistics that
will bear out the statements that I have
made, and, Bill, if you would now take
over and answer the questions, I would
appreciate it.
MR. SIMON. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Incidentally, because
the room is so crowded, I was going to sug-
gest that perhaps next week we might set
this meeting over in the conference room
in the EOB. Then we could all sit down.
I can see that there are only about eight
chairs in here. So we will set it over in the
EOB after this-have your weekly brief-
ing over there, because there you can seat
about 200 people. Because I am sure they
will want to do a lot of writing.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:17 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a transcript of the news briefing on national
energy policies and actions taken by the Fed-
eral Energy Office, which followed the Presi-
dent's remarks. Participants in the news
briefing were William E. Simon, Administra-
tor, and John C. Sawhill, Deputy Administra-
tor, William A. Johnson, Director of Policy
Analysis, and Eric R. Zausner and John A. Hill,
Assistant Administrators, all of the Federal
Energy Office; and Russell E. Train, Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Also released was the transcript of a news
briefing on Federal-State cooperation on solu-
tions to the energy crisis by Mr. Simon and
Governors Stanley K. Hathaway of Wyoming,
Daniel J. Evans of Washington, and Wendell
H. Ford of Kentucky.
Later in the day, the President joined a meet-
ing in the Cabinet Room with 18 Governors
who were conferring with Administration of-
ficials on the energy situation.
358 Remarks at the Lighting of the Nation's Christmas
December 14, 1973
Tree.
Mr. Dixon, Mr. Secretary, all of the dis-
tinguished guests on the platform, all of
the ladies and gentlemen, all of the chil-
dren here in the audience, and our tele-
vision and radio audience across this land:
I think one of the greatest privileges
that a President of the United States has
is to light the Christmas tree, the Nation's
Christmas tree, because it belongs to all
the Nation, here in the Nation's Capital.
This year, as the Secretary has already
indicated, the tree is different. This year,
Christmas will be different in terms of
lights, perhaps, all across America. In-
stead of having many lights on the tree,
as you will see over there in a few mo-
ments, there will be only one on it, the
star at the top, and the other lights you
see will simply be the glitter from the
ground lights which are around the tree.
And in a way, I suppose one could say
with only one light on the tree, this will
be a very dreary Christmas, but we know
that isn't true, because the spirit of Christ-
mas is not measured by the number of
lights on a tree. The spirit of Christmas
is measured by the love that each of us has
in his heart for his family, for his friends,
ΙΟΙΙ
