Appendix B
March
27 In a letter to Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, USA,
Advisor to the President on Manpower
Mobilization and former Director of the
Selective Service System, the President ex-
pressed his profound gratitude to General
Hershey for his 62 years of service to the
Nation.
30 Mrs. Yekaterina Furtseva, Soviet Minister
of Culture, called on the President at the
White House.
30 Indian Ambassador L. K. Jha paid a fare-
well call on the President at the White
House.
30 Perkins McGuire, Chairman, and Repre-
sentative Chet Holifield, Vice Chairman,
of the Commission on Government Pro-
curement, met with the President at the
White House to present a copy of the Com-
mission's report.
30 Dr. John R. Kernodle, chairman of the
board of the American Medical Associa-
tion, met with the President at the White
House to discuss the Administration's med-
ical policy.
31 The President and Mrs. Nixon attended
the wedding of Cheri Fisher and Richard
Ryan in Van Nuys, Calif. Mr. Ryan was
Mrs. Nixon's nephew.
April
6 The President attended the opening game
of the California Angels 1973 baseball sea-
son at Anaheim Stadium. Former prisoner
of war Maj. David Luna, USAF, threw out
the first ball at the game.
8 Mayor Lorin Griset and members of the
city council of Santa Ana, Calif., pre-
sented a proclamation to the President hon-
oring him as the "First Citizen of the Cen-
tury."
9 Ambassadors Ardeshir Zahedi of Iran,
Tiamiou Adjibade of Dahomey, Marco An-
tonio Lopez Aguero of Costa Rica, and
Simcha Dinitz of Israel presented their cre-
dentials to the President in ceremonies in
the Blue Room at the White House.
April
11 Gregorio Lopez Bravo de Castro, Foreign
Minister of Spain, met with the President
at the White House.
11 Roger Shields, Assistant to the Assistant
Secretary of Defense, met with the President
at the White House. Dr. Shields played a
leading role in plans for the release of
American prisoners of war; he was also
actively engaged in efforts to account for
those missing in action.
12 NATO Secretary General Joseph Luns met
with the President at the White House.
12 Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Vice Chief
of Staff of the Army, met with the President
at the White House to report on his visit
to Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, and South
Vietnam.
12 The President directed the Secretary of
Labor to certify as eligible for adjustment
assistance under the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962, workers formerly employed by the
Rose-Bro Shoe Company, Inc., of Boston,
Mass., and by the Tazewell, Va., plant of
the General Instrument Corporation.
12 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for Members of the House
and Senate who supported him by sustain-
ing his veto of vocational rehabilitation and
water and sewer legislation.
13 The President met with a group of Japanese
Prefectural Governors, Vice Governors, and
their staff in the Rose Garden at the White
House. They were in the United States as
part of an exchange program with U.S.
State Governors sponsored by the Depart-
ment of State.
13 Representative John Jarman of Oklahoma
and a group of business and civic leaders
who were the founders of the Frontiers of
Science Foundation of Oklahoma, Inc., met
with the President at the White House.
14 The President greeted a group of visitors
who were viewing the White House gardens
in the first public tour of the gardens,
initiated at the request of Mrs. Nixon.
31-870 O 75-71
1071
