[50] Feb. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
to plant our banner on the surface of the
Moon.
"Instead we work and we build and we
create to give all mankind its last great
heritage. We are truly reaching for the
stars."
By his vision and his work and his sup-
port, Lyndon Johnson drew America up
closer to the stars, and before he died he
saw us reach the Moon--the first great
plateau along the way.
NOTE: As enacted, S.J. Res. 37, approved
February 17, 1973, is Public Law 93-8 (87
Stat. 7).
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
51 Remarks to a Joint Session of the South Carolina
General Assembly. February 20, 1973
Governor West, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Presi
dent, Senator Thurmond, Senator Hol-
lings, my colleagues from the House of
Representatives in Washington, D.C., all
of the distinguished members of the Sen-
ate and the House of Representatives of
the State of South Carolina:
I had not realized until the Governor
had introduced me so eloquently that this
is the first time that a President of the
United States has stood in this place. I am
honored to be here for that reason, and I
am also honored to be here because this is
the first State legislature in the Nation
which passed a resolution supporting the
peace settlement in Vietnam.
Before speaking of that settlement, I
would like to refer briefly to some of the
distinguished people who are here in this
chamber today, and first, to one of the
truly great First Ladies of America, Mrs.
James Byrnes.
All of you know of the friendship that
I was privileged to have with Governor
Byrnes. You will remember that I men-
tioned the fact on his death that no man
in the whole history of this country had
held more offices and more high offices
at both the State and Federal level than
he had held during his long and distin-
guished career. He was also a very wise
and farsighted man who was willing to
give good counsel on occasion when he
was asked.
I remember when I was defeated when
I ran for President in 1960, I asked Gov-
ernor Byrnes whether I should run for
Governor of California. He thought a
moment and said, "Yes, you should." I
ran for Governor. I lost, but the advice
was very farsighted because if I had not
run for Governor and had not lost, I
wouldn't be standing here today.
I also want to pay tribute on this oc-
casion to Speaker Blatt. It was interesting
for me to note, and I note it now for the
whole Nation, that he has been Speaker
in this House longer than any man has
held that position in the whole history of
America, and I pay a tribute to him for
having that high position today.
I am also very proud today that Sec-
retary Dent, Secretary of Commerce, is
present with us. He is the first man from
South Carolina to serve in a President's
Cabinet since James Byrnes was Secretary
of State.
And then, too, I wish to pay my respects
on this occasion to the delegation from
Washington, D.C. I could say much about
them in terms of their very strong sup-
port of policies that we believe are best for
America. I will simply say that on this
occasion, under the very strong leader-
108
