Appendix E-Rules Governing This Publication
NOTE: The rules are reprinted from the Federal Register, vol. 37, p. 23607, dated November 4,
1972, and title I of the Code of Federal Regulations.
TITLE I-GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter I-Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
PART 10-PRESIDENTIAL PAPERS
SUBPART A-ANNUAL VOLUMES
Sec.
10.1
Publication required.
10.2
Coverage of prior years.
10.3
10.4
10.5
10.6
Scope and sources.
Format, indexes, and ancillaries.
Distribution to Government agencies.
Extra copies.
AUTHORITY: 44 U.S.C. 1506; sec. 6, E.O.
10530, 19 FR 2709; 3 CFR 1954-1958 Comp.
p. 189.
SUBPART A-ANNUAL VOLUMES
§ 10.1 Publication required.
The Director of the Federal Register shall
publish, at the end of each calendar year, a
special edition of the FEDERAL REGISTER called
the "Public Papers of the Presidents of the
United States." Unless the amount of material
requires otherwise, each volume shall cover one
calendar year.
§ 10.2 Coverage of prior years.
After consulting with the National Historical
Publications Commission on the need therefor,
the Administrative Committee may authorize
the publication of volumes of papers of the
Presidents covering specified years before 1957.
§ 10.3 Scope and sources.
(a) The basic text of each volume shall con-
sist of oral statements by the President or of
writings subscribed by him, and selected from-
(1) Communications to the Congress;
(2) Public addresses;
(3) Transcripts of news conferences;
(4) Public letters;
(5) Messages to heads of State;
(6) Statements released on miscellaneous
subjects; and
(7) Formal executive documents promul-
gated in accordance with law.
(b) In general, ancillary text, notes, and
tables shall be derived from official sources.
§10.4 Format, indexes, and ancillaries.
(a) Each annual volume, divided into books
whenever appropriate, shall be separately pub-
lished in the binding and style that the Ad-
ministrative Committee considers suitable to the
dignity of the Office of the President of the
United States.
(b) Each volume shall be appropriately
indexed and contain appropriate ancillary
information respecting significant Presidential
documents not printed in full text.
§ 10.5 Distribution to Government agen-
cies.
(a) The Public Papers of the Presidents of
the United States shall be distributed to the
following, in the quantities indicated, without
charge:
(1) Members of Congress. Each Senator
and each Member of the House of Representa-
tives is entitled to one copy of each annual
volume published during his term of office,
upon his written request to the Director of the
Federal Register.
(2) Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is
entitled to 12 copies of each annual volume.
(3) Executive agencies. The head of each
executive agency is entitled to one copy of
each annual volume upon application to the
Director.
(b) Legislative, judicial, and executive agen-
ΙΙΟΙ
