Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 6 [352]
ing trade in major agricultural commodi-
ties, among institutions, enterprises and
economic organizations.
12. Both countries reaffirm their desire
promptly and equitably to settle on an
amicable basis commercial disputes which
may arise. Commercial contracts should
include provisions concerning arbitration
of disputes resulting from commercial
transactions.
Such understandings will stipulate that
the arbitration be effected in accordance
with the regulations of the International
Chamber of Commerce in Paris and will
designate as place for arbitration a city in
a country other than the United States or
Romania which is a party to the 1958
Convention on recognition and applica-
tion of foreign arbitration decisions, or
any other modality agreed upon in the
terms of the contract.
13. With the view of broadening and
supporting economic relations between
the two countries, it was agreed to estab-
lish a joint Romanian-American Econom-
ic Commission which will meet annually,
alternatively in Bucharest and Washing-
ton.
The Commission will consider ques-
tions and problems relating to the recip-
rocal establishment of business facili-
ties to promote economic cooperation, as
well as any other matters arising in the
course of their economic, industrial and
technological cooperation.
The Commission will also facilitate as
appropriate the establishment of joint
consultative groups between representa-
tives of firms, companies and economic
organizations of the two countries on mat-
ters of particular interest.
352
Statement on Signing a Veterans Disability and Death
Pension Bill. December 6, 1973
FOUR times in this century, America has
sent her finest men into military combat,
and four times the country has been well
served. In equal measure, all of us now
have a continuing duty to serve those who
have returned to our shores and the fam-
ilies of those who have been lost.
This Administration has actively sup-
ported legislation which would expand
benefits for veterans, including greater
educational benefits, greater medical
benefits, and larger pensions for older
veterans.
Today I am pleased to sign into law
H.R. 9474, which will provide increased
pensions and related benefits for over 2
million veterans, veterans' widows, and
surviving children and parents. In this
legislation the Administration and the
Congress have recognized that these bene-
ficiaries need greater assistance in their
struggle to match limited incomes to the
rising cost of living.
While this bill is a step in the right
direction, more can be done-and should
be done. As I mentioned in my message to
the Congress on national legislative goals
on September 10, 1973, full reform of
the Veterans Administration pension
program is necessary. The program is cur-
rently fraught with inconsistencies, in-
equities, and anomalies which cannot be
corrected unless the entire framework of
the program is restructured.
1003
