Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 28 [97]
tions under a single head, and to abolish
such agencies or functions as may not be
necessary for the efficient conduct of the
Government;" and Section 901(a)(6):
"to eliminate overlapping and duplica-
tion of effort."
As required by law, the plan has one
logically consistent subject matter: con-
solidation of Federal drug law enforce-
ment activities in a manner designed to in-
crease their effectiveness.
The plan would establish in the Depart-
ment of Justice a new Administration des-
ignated as the Drug Enforcement Admin-
istration. The reorganizations provided for
in the plan make necessary the appoint-
ment and compensation of new officers as
specified in Section 5 of the plan. The
rates of compensation fixed for these of-
ficers would be comparable to those fixed
for officers in the executive branch who
have similar responsibilities.
While it is not practicable to specify all
of the expenditure reductions and other
economies which may result from the ac-
tions proposed, some savings may be
anticipated in administrative costs now as-
sociated with the functions being trans-
ferred and consolidated.
The proposed reorganization is a nec-
essary step in upgrading the effectiveness
of our Nation's drug law enforcement
effort. Both of the proposed changes would
build on the strengths of established
agencies, yielding maximum gains in the
battle against drug abuse with minimum
loss of time and momentum in the
transition.
I am confident that this reorganization
plan would significantly increase the over-
all efficiency and effectiveness of the Fed-
eral Government. I urge the Congress to
allow it to become effective.
The White House,
March 28, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the reorganization plan
was released with the President's message and is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 309).
On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the reorganization plan by Myles
Ambrose, Special Assistant Attorney General,
Office for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement, De-
partment of Justice.
Reorganization Plan 2 of 1973 became effec-
tive July 1, 1973.
97 Statement About the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
Uniform Crime Reports for
THE CRIME figures released today by
the Department of Justice are very
heartening.
The FBI's Uniform Crime Reports in-
dicate that for the first time in 17 years,
America has experienced an absolute de-
crease in serious crime.
In 1972, serious crime decreased by 3
percent over 1971. In the last quarter of
1972, there was a full 8 percent decrease.
1972. March 28, 1973
Reflected in these figures is a pattern
of steady progress over the past 4 years.
In 1968, serious crime increased by 17
percent, the largest rate of increase in the
last quarter century. Gradually that rate
of increase has been reduced, coming
down to II percent in 1970, 6 percent in
1971, and finally to this complete reversal
in 1972.
These results are a tribute to the men
233
