[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
determination to enforce the laws of this
country and protect the safety of all our
citizens. We must make certain, however,
that the programs which assist State and
local criminal justice systems are not only
expanded, but reformed, and that we do
a better job of reducing crime and
rehabilitating criminal offenders. To ac-
complish these goals, I propose in this
budget that:
-the grants to State and local govern-
ments for law enforcement assistance
be converted to a law enforcement
revenue sharing program with addi-
tional funding;
-the Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
ministration continue and strengthen
its national research, demonstration,
and dissemination efforts to develop
more effective ways of preventing
crime; and
-Federal agencies intensify their ef-
forts to fight organized crime.
Further, new and improved measures
to prevent airplane hijacking will be put
into effect in cooperation with the airlines
and airport operators.
CONCLUSION
The respect given to the common sense
of the common man is what has made
America the most uncommon of nations.
Common sense tells us that government
cannot make a habit of living beyond its
means. If we are not willing to make some
sacrifices in holding down spending, we
will be forced to make a much greater
sacrifice in higher taxes or renewed in-
flation.
Common sense tells us that a family
budget cannot succeed if every member of
the family plans his own spending in-
dividually-which is how the Congress
operates today. We must set an overall
ceiling and affix the responsibility for
staying within that ceiling.
Common sense tells us that we must
not abuse an economic system that already
provides more income for more people
than any other system by suffocating the
productive members of the society with
excessive tax rates.
Common sense tells us that it is more
important to save tax dollars than to save
bureaucratic reputations. By abandoning
programs that have failed, we do not close
our eyes to problems that exist; we shift
resources to more productive use.
It is hard to argue with these common
sense judgments; surprisingly, it is just as
hard to put them into action. Lethargy,
habit, pride, and politics combine to resist
the necessary process of change, but I am
confident that the expressed will of the
people will not be denied.
Two years ago, I spoke of the need for
a new American Revolution to return
power to people and put the individual
self back in the idea of self-government.
The 1974 budget moves us firmly toward
that goal.
January 29, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message as sent to the Congress
included illustrative diagrams which have not
been reproduced in this volume.
48
