[225] Aug. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
countries. They agreed to make an over-
all review of cooperative relationships in
such fields in light of the broader require-
ments of the coming decade.
16. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent, recognizing that the United Nations
is making an important contribution to the
furtherance of international cooperation
and is an effective forum for collective
consultations, agreed that Japan and the
United States should cooperate fully in
their efforts to help move the organiza-
tion in a constructive direction. The Presi-
dent expressed the belief that for the
Security Council to fulfill its primary re-
sponsibility under the United Nations
Charter for the maintenance of interna-
tional peace and security, a way should
be found to assure permanent representa-
tion in that Council for Japan, whose re-
sources and influence are of major im-
portance in world affairs. The Prime
Minister expressed his appreciation for
this statement.
17. The President reconfirmed the
standing invitation to Their Majesties, the
Emperor and Empress of Japan, to visit
the United States and hoped that the visit
would take place in the near future at a
mutually convenient time. The Prime
Minister expressed his deep appreciation
for this invitation, and on his part con-
veyed an invitation from the Government
of Japan to President and Mrs. Nixon to
visit Japan. In accepting this invitation,
the President voiced his sincere gratitude
for the warm sentiments toward the
United States symbolized by it. It is hoped
that the President's visit to Japan, to be
arranged through diplomatic channels,
will take place at a mutually convenient
time before the end of 1974-
18. The Prime Minister was accom-
panied by Foreign Minister Masayoshi
Ohira, Takeshi Yasukawa, Japanese Am-
bassador to the United States, and Kiyo-
hiko Tsurumi, Deputy Vice Minister of
Foreign Affairs. Also taking part in the
conversations on the American side were
William P. Rogers, Secretary of State,
Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs,
and Robert S. Ingersoll, American Am-
bassador to Japan.
226 Veto of the Emergency Medical Services Systems Bill.
August 1, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning today without my ap-
proval S. 504, the "Emergency Medical
Services Systems Act of 1973."
At my direction, this Administration
has been engaged for the past two years in
an effort to demonstrate the effectiveness
of various types of emergency medical
services which can be utilized by local
communities. Some $8 million was budg-
eted for this purpose last fiscal year, and
$15 million should be spent in the current
fiscal year. I strongly believe the Federal
role should be limited to such a demon-
stration effort, leaving States and com-
munities free to establish the full range
of emergency medical services systems
that best suit their varying local needs.
By contrast, S. 504 would establish a
new Federal grant program which would
provide Federal dollars to State and local
governments for emergency medical serv
ices. The program would be a narrow,
categorical one. thrusting the Federal
680
