[271] Sept. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
appear to be unfounded, misleading, or
exaggerated.
The Panel recognizes, however, that
basic environmental protection is key to
the national forests' long-term value for
timber production and other use, and thus
concludes that protection of environ-
mental quality must be a major goal of
national forest management.
Many other findings and recommenda-
tions which deserve careful evaluation and
consideration are contained in this docu-
ment. I have asked the Timber Task
Force, under the leadership of the Office
of Management and Budget, to assess this
report carefully and to put into effect as
many of its major recommendations as
they consider practical.
Our country has been greatly blessed in
natural resources, through a combination
of temperate weather and fertile land.
But no resources, however rich, are either
inexhaustible or indestructible. Therefore,
we must strike a careful balance between
protection and use. The price of economic
growth need not be the deterioration of
our lives and our surroundings. All Amer-
icans should recognize the value inherent
in the unique renewability of our forest
resources; they must be cherished, nur-
tured, and intelligently utilized. This re-
port is a valuable contribution toward
helping us meet these goals.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report of the
President's Advisory Panel on Timber and the
Environment" (Government Printing Office,
541 pp.).
The President received the report during a
meeting with members of the Panel in the Oval
Office at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a summary of the report.
272 Statement About the Investigation of Charges Against
September 25, 1973
Vice President Agnew.
I HELD a discussion with the Vice Presi-
dent this morning about the charges that
have been made against him in the course
of an investigation being conducted in
Baltimore under the direction of the
United States Attorney for Maryland.
This discussion followed an assessment
of the situation which was presented to
me by Attorney General Richardson and
Assistant Attorney General Petersen.
During our discussion, the Vice Presi-
dent again—as he had done in our previ-
ous meetings-denied the charges that
have been made against him. He also in-
formed me that he intended to request
that the House of Representatives under-
take an inquiry into the matter.
I wish to emphasize my strong belief
that during these proceedings the Vice
President is entitled to the same presump-
tion of innocence which is the right of any
citizen and which lies at the heart of our
system of justice. During these past 4½
years, the Vice President has served his
country with dedication and distinction.
He has won the respect of millions of
Americans for the candor and courage
with which he has addressed the contro-
versial issues of our time. As he moves
through this difficult period. I urge all
Americans to accord the Vice President
the basic, decent consideration and pre-
sumption of innocence that are both his
right and his due.
822
