[74] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
have made us and kept us a strong and a
free people. I am encouraged by that vis-
ion. It points the way toward a better,
safer future for all Americans. It points
the way to an America in which men and
women and children can truly live free
from fear in the full enjoyment of their
most basic rights.
To accept anything less than a nation
free from crime is to be satisfied with
something less than America can be and
ought to be for all our people.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded for
broadcast at 12:30 p.m. on nationwide radio.
75 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Science Foundation.
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress the Twenty-Second Annual Report
of the National Science Foundation,
covering the fiscal year 1972.
During the period covered by this re-
port, the Foundation continued to make
an important contribution to the strength-
ening of our economy and our society
through science. It increased its support
for scientific research in all disciplines
and further expanded its involvement in
research focused on domestic problems.
The report should be of special inter-
est to the Congress at this time, in view of
the additional responsibilities that would
March 12, 1973
be transferred to the Director of the Na-
tional Science Foundation from the Office
of Science and Technology by Reorgani-
zation Plan No. 1 of 1973, which I pro-
posed last month. I believe that this ac-
count of the Foundation's outstanding
work during 1972 helps to confirm its fit-
ness to undertake a broader role in the
national science effort in 1973.
The White House,
March 12, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science
Foundation-Twenty-Second Annual Report
for Fiscal Year 1972" (Government Printing
Office, 102 pp.).
76 Statement About Executive Privilege.
March 12, 1973
DURING my press conference of Janu-
ary 31, 1973, I stated that I would issue a
statement outlining my views on executive
privilege.
The doctrine of executive privilege is
well established. It was first invoked by
President Washington, and it has been
recognized and utilized by our Presidents
for almost 200 years since that time. The
doctrine is rooted in the Constitution,
which vests "the Executive Power" solely
in the President, and it is designed to pro-
tect communications within the execu-
tive branch in a variety of circumstances
in time of both war and peace. Without
such protection, our military security, our
relations with other countries, our law en-
forcement procedures, and many other
aspects of the national interest could be
significantly damaged and the decision-
184
