[333] Nov. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral control and coordination over Fed-
eral litigation which has traditionally
been exercised by the Department of Jus-
tice.
Another amendment permits independ-
ent regulatory agencies to require infor-
mation of business and industry separate
and apart from the statutory controls that
now govern requests for information by
Federal agencies from the private sector.
This provision will unfortunately elimi-
nate present safeguards against bureau-
cratic harassment of business and indus-
try by permitting endless duplication of
requests by regulatory agencies.
A further amendment authorizes Sen-
ate confirmation of the incumbent Direc-
tor of the Energy Policy Office and the
head of the Department of the Interior's
Mining Enforcement and Safety Admin-
istration. The President should be free to
select, without Senate intervention, those
advisers who function in an intimate staff
relationship with him, as does the Direc-
tor of the Energy Policy Office.
In addition, this amendment raises con-
stitutional difficulties because of the way
it affects incumbent executive officials.
While I am considering the need for
corrective action, I want to take this op-
portunity to urge the Congress to refrain
from attaching nongermane amend-
ments to legislation of vital national im-
portance like S. 1081, thereby depriving
the concerned committees, the public, and
the Administration of the opportunity to
consider and deal with such amendments
on their individual merits.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the trans-Alaska oil pipeline. Par-
ticipants in the news briefing were Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary, and Jared G. Carter, Dep-
uty Under Secretary, Department of the Inte
rior.
334 Question-and-Answer Session at the Annual Convention
of the Associated Press Managing Editors Association,
Orlando, Florida. November 17, 1973
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] President Quinn
and ladies and gentlemen:
When Jack Horner,' who has been a
correspondent in Washington and other
places around the world, retired after 40
years he once told me that if I thought
that the White House press corps an-
swered (asked) tough questions, he (I)
should hear the kind of questions the man-
aging editors asked him. Consequently,
I welcome this opportunity tonight to
'Garnett D. (Jack) Horner was a reporter
with the Washington Star from 1937 and was
that newspaper's White House correspondent
from 1954 until his retirement in November
1973.
meet with the managing editors of the
Nation's newspapers.
I will not have an opening statement,
because I know, with 400 of you, it will
be hard to get through all of the questions
you have. And I understand the presi-
dent has a prerogative of asking the first
question.
QUESTIONS
WATERGATE AND THE FUTURE
[2.] Mr. Quinn [John C. Quinn, Gan-
nett Newspapers, and president, Associ-
ated Press Managing Editors Association].
Q. Mr. President, this morning, Gover-
946
