[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
WATERGATE SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
[3] Also, in consultations that we have
had in the White House today, we have
decided that next week the Acting Attor-
ney General, Mr. Bork, will appoint a
new Special Prosecutor for what is called
the Watergate matter. The Special Prose-
cutor will have independence. He will
have total cooperation from the execu-
tive branch, and he will have as his pri-
mary responsibility to bring this matter
which has so long concerned the Ameri-
can people, bring it to an expeditious con-
clusion, because we have to remember
that under our Constitution, it has always
been held that justice delayed is justice de-
nied. It is time for those who are guilty
to be prosecuted and for those who are
innocent to be cleared. And I can assure
you ladies and gentlemen, and all of our
listeners tonight, that I have no greater in-
terest than to see that the new Special
Prosecutor has the cooperation from the
executive branch and the independence
that he needs to bring about that conclu-
sion.
QUESTIONS
THE SPECIAL PROSECUTOR
[4] And now I will go to Mr. Cormier
[Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
Q. Mr. President, would the new Spe-
cial Prosecutor have your go-ahead to go
to court if necessary to obtain evidence
from your files that he felt were vital?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Cormier, I
would anticipate that that would not be
necessary. I believe that as we look at the
events which led to the dismissal of Mr.
Cox, we find that these are matters that
can be worked out and should be worked
out in cooperation and not by having a
suit filed by a Special Prosecutor within
the executive branch against the Presi-
dent of the United States.
This, incidentally, is not a new attitude
on the part of a President. Every Presi-
dent since George Washington has tried
to protect the confidentiality of Presi-
dential conversations, and you remember
the famous case involving Thomas Jef-
ferson where Chief Justice Marshall, then
sitting as a trial judge, subpoenaed the
letter which Jefferson had written which
Marshall thought or felt was necessary
evidence in the trial of Aaron Burr. Jeffer-
son refused to do so, but it did not result
in a suit. What happened was, of course,
a compromise in which a summary of the
contents of the letter which was relevant
to the trial was produced by Jefferson, and
the Chief Justice of the United States, act-
ing in his capacity as Chief Justice, ac-
cepted that.
That is exactly, of course, what we tried
to do in this instant case.
I think it would be well if I could take
just a moment, Mr. Cormier, in answering
your question to point out what we tried
to do and why we feel it was the proper
solution to a very aggravating and difficult
problem.
The matter of the tapes has been one
that has concerned me because of my feel-
ing that I have a constitutional respon-
sibility to defend the Office of the
Presidency from any encroachments on
confidentiality which might affect future
Presidents in their abilities to conduct the
kind of conversations and discussions they
need to conduct to carry on the respon-
sibilities of this office. And of course, the
Special Prosecutor felt that he needed the
tapes for the purpose of his prosecution.
That was why, working with the Attor-
ney General, we worked out what we
898
