Richard Nixon, 1973
June 21 [181]
our meetings. Our talks bear the hallmark of a
vigorous pace, a broad scope, and a business-
like and constructive spirit. Each day, all this
is yielding tangible results, bringing us closer
to the jointly set objectives of securing a further
major advance in the development of Soviet-
American relations, of lessening the threat of
war, and of strengthening peace and security
on our planet.
The contribution made by our two nations
to the attainment of this paramount goal will
undoubtedly raise Soviet-American relations to
a new level. In May of last year, we agreed that
in the nuclear age there is no alternative to
conducting relations between our countries on
the basis of peaceful coexistence. We can now
confidently say that this fundamental principle
is being increasingly imbued with concrete
substance.
We are convinced that the results of our
talks will strengthen still more the relations of
peace and mutual trust between the Soviet
Union and the United States. At the same time,
new vistas will be opened for the constructive
development of those relations.
The new step forward which it has proved
possible to take through joint efforts in so
vitally important and at once so complex a
problem as the limitation of Soviet and Ameri-
can strategic arms is also something that can-
not fail to cause satisfaction.
The agreement achieved on the basic prin-
ciples for further negotiations on this problem
contains everything to give a new impetus and
a clear direction to joint work on important
agreements designed not only to curb but also
to reverse the race of the most formidable and
costly types of rocket nuclear arms, and thus
to permit our countries to switch more resources
to constructive purposes and use them to better
man's life.
Atomic energy, too, must ever-increasingly
serve the aims of peace. The readiness of our
two nations to promote that objective through
joint efforts has been reflected in the agree-
ment on cooperation in the field of the peaceful
uses of atomic energy, which President Nixon
and I also signed today.
In pursuance of the line jointly initiated
during last year's meeting in Moscow, a new
series of agreements on cooperation between the
U.S.S.R. and the United States in several other
fields of science, technology, and culture was
signed in the course of this visit. This we also
value highly. It will give Soviet-American rela-
tions still greater diversity and stability. At the
same time, we are sure the development of such
cooperation will benefit other peoples, too, since
it is aimed at solving problems that are impor-
tant for all mankind.
Of course, in the relations between our two
countries there are still quite a few outstanding
problems and, I would say, some unfinished
business. In particular, this relates to the
sphere of strategic arms limitation and also to
commercial and economic matters.
We are optimists, and we believe that the
very course of events and an awareness of con-
crete interests will prompt the conclusion that
the future of our relations rests on their com-
prehensive and mutually advantageous devel-
opment for the benefit of the present and com-
ing generations.
But I wish especially to emphasize that we
are convinced that on the basis of growing
mutual confidence, we can steadily move ahead.
We want the further development of our rela-
tions to become a maximally stable process and,
what is more, an irreversible one.
Mr. President, in our discussions and we
value their businesslike and constructive char-
acter I have already had an opportunity to
tell you and I want to repeat this for the
benefit of all the American guests present here
tonight-that the Soviet Union's line at im-
proving relations with the United States is not
some temporary phenomenon. It is a firm and
consistent line reflecting the permanent prin-
ciples of Soviet foreign policy formulated by
the great founder of the Soviet State, V. I.
Lenin. It is a line that rests on the full support
of our people.
Soviet people believe that most Americans,
too, approve of the jointly initiated line aimed
at strengthening peace and cooperation be-
tween the peoples of the Soviet Union and of
the United States.
Unfortunately, the tight schedule of our
talks has not left me much of a chance to learn
more about your great country and to get a
closer look at the life of Americans. But the
little I have managed to see seemed to me to be
very interesting, indeed. To some extent, I hope
to be able to fill in that gap when, at your
invitation, Mr. President, we go to the west
coast of the United States, to California, long
605
