[169] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
and patiently discovers the road towards unity,
a unity which is necessary but not thereby easier
to achieve. There, again, there is marked
progress.
Would it mean that relations between the
U.S. and Europe, and more specifically the U.S.
and France, have lost some of their urgency
or interest? Certainly not. We know the place
of Europe in your concern. For our part, how-
ever favorable may developments be in the
world situation, we believe that it is still too
fraught with uncertainties for the need for our
alliance to decline.
Happily enough, my dear sirs and Presidents,
wide is the pattern of all kinds of links to be
established between free and active peoples. It
comes as no surprise that the ever-changing
needs in the international situation should
often raise new problems. It is life itself which
puts forth new challenges. It is up to us to
stand up to them by overcoming them, that is,
by placing them in the perspective of our
future.
Such is, fellow Presidents, my strongest wish.
It is therefore with confidence and friendship
that I drink this toast in honor of His Ex-
cellency, Mr. Kristján Eldjárn, President of the
Republic of Iceland, in honor of His Ex-
cellency, Mr. Richard Nixon, President of the
United States, and to the prosperity of our
three countries.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the President's remarks.
On May 29 and 31, 1973, the White House
released transcripts of news briefings on the
President's meetings with President Pompidou,
and other matters of foreign policy by Henry
A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs. The news briefing of
May 31, released in Reykjavik, is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 9, p. 719).
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Herbert G. Klein
as Director of Communications for the Executive
Branch. June 5, 1973
Dear Herb:
It is with deepest personal regret that
I accept your resignation as Director
of Communications for the Executive
Branch, effective July 1, 1973, as you
requested. I have known during the past
year, of course, that you felt it necessary
to leave Government in order to continue
your career in the media, and I am grate-
ful for your willingness to remain in your
position beyond the deadline you had
originally set.
Over the years, I have watched you
grow professionally as a newsman and as
a loyal friend, who has performed with
utmost skill as an assistant to me, both
in government and in my campaigns. I
have long admired your skills and your
loyalty, and it has come as no surprise to
me that you have been so highly esteemed
by both the media and by those of us in
the Administration.
As Director of Communications, you
have contributed enormously to improving
communication skills within the govern-
ment. You have traveled countless miles
to meet with editors and broadcasters in
all fifty states, discussing with them this
Administration's approach to the prob-
lems of the day and of the future. You
have ably represented me and our gov-
ernment in twenty-six countries, includ-
ing all the nations of Indochina, the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, and the Soviet
Union. Most importantly, you can look
back on your term in office as one which
achieved the vital goal of effectively in-
forming the American people about their
572
