[217] July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your Imperial Majesty, I want you to
know that for Mrs. Nixon and for me it
was just as great a pleasure tonight to
walk into this bit of Iran as it was to come
there 20 years ago after that long, long
trip through Asia, South Asia, and other
parts of the world.
I know that many of you have other
feelings you would like to express, and I
cannot adequately express them for you.
I can only say this: that as we look at the
peace of the world, we know that the area
of the world in which His Majesty plays
such an important role is an area that
could cause very grave problems, but the
fact that he is there, the fact that he
believes so strongly in the kind of peace
that can survive, a peace not based on
weakness, but a peace based on strength,
not the strength of arrogance, but the
strength of competence, confidence, abil-
ity, magnanimity.
When we have that kind of a leader
there, that kind of a people with that kind
of a background, then the chances for
peace in that world to survive and to grow
and to be creative are much greater, and
that is why we are fortunate that he is
there with his leadership and also by his
side his Empress, who has made such a
great impression not only in her visits here
but such a splendid contribution to the
people of Iran in all of the villages and
communities as well as in the great city
of Tehran, which most of us know.
And so, I know all of you will want to
join me in the toast I propose. It, of
course, is to our continuing friendship be-
tween the American people and the
people of Iran. It is, of course, to the
peace, the creative peace that we want
for all of our people, wherever they may
be, in any part of the world and both of
which we are dedicated to, and most of
all, of course, it is to those who are our
honored hosts tonight in this bit of terri-
tory of Iran here in Washington.
Their Imperial Majesties, the Shahan-
shah and the Empress of Iran.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10 p.m. at the Iranian Embassy in response
to a toast proposed by the Shah of Iran.
Earlier in the day, the Shah met with the
President at the White House to conclude 2
days of meetings.
The toast of the Shah was as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
guests:
I cannot say how much the Empress and
myself have been overwhelmed by the hospi-
tality that you have shown to us and, in my
opinion, the very fruitful talks that we have
had, and also the very concrete results.
I must also mention the happiness I have
had to see many old friends, because the new
friendship between our two countries-by
meaning new is when we recovered our inde-
pendence back in 1953, when our country
was menaced by grave danger, and when the
United States showed to us a fulfilling of
friendship, but we have many old friends who
would try to make new friends and continue
our friendship in an evergrowing way.
I have the pleasure, honor, and opportunity
to meet with members-the distinguished
members of the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee and also the Congress. Everywhere they
showed keen interest in the fate of my country,
and this is heartening to have such friends in
our present world. It is true a changing world,
but we hope for the better.
So, I cannot finish my remarks without once
again, in proposing a toast to the health of
the President of the United States of America
and Mrs. Nixon, my fervent prayers for the
welfare and the everlasting happiness, pros-
perity of the people of America.
666
