Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 30 [100]
99 Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House Transmitting Proposals To Authorize
Reduction or Suspension of Import Barriers.
March 30, 1973
I HEREWITH transmit a draft bill, "to
authorize reduction or suspension of im-
port barriers to restrain inflation."
The proposed legislation would author-
ize the President to reduce or suspend
temporarily any duty applicable to any
article and to increase temporarily any
value or quantity of articles which may be
imported under any import restriction
whenever the President determines that
supplies of the article imported are inade-
quate to meet domestic demand at reason-
able prices.
The enactment of this bill is necessary
to provide an important additional means
of restraining inflation and aiding the
American consumer.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Spiro T. Agnew,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
The White House press release also included
the text of the draft bill.
100 Remarks to State Legislators Attending the
National Legislative Conference. March 30, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am interrupting the briefing simply
to greet you, perhaps to make a couple of
points that may put in perspective some of
the things you are going to hear from the
experts here, and also to thank you for
coming to Washington on this occasion to
give us the opportunity to talk to some
future Members of the House and Senate
of the United States.
I am not recommending it, necessarily—
[laughter]—and I won't be here perhaps—
let me see, unless you run next time.
First, I wanted to come by this meeting
this morning to pay my respects to the
State legislators. I have had the opportu-
nity to talk to only two State legislatures,
Iowa and South Carolina. I have had a
few invitations to others, and I hope that
during the balance of the 4 years I am
here, I may be able to address some of
the State legislatures.
While you are here I do want to thank
many
of the State legislators. There are
several who passed resolutions either in
one house or the other of the State legis-
lature, and some concurrent resolutions,
indicating support and appreciation for
the peace agreement that we had reached
on Vietnam. I think in that respect that
while this is a group, as with all groups
in this country, of Democrats and Re-
publicans, we are all grateful that as I
meet with you today, for the first time
in 12 years there are no Americans sta-
tioned in Vietnam, and our POW's are all
on the way back, and we have peace with
honor.
Now last night I addressed some of these
subjects in a national television broadcast.
31-870 - 75 - 19
239
