Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 16 [122]
that will not raise their taxes, that will not
contribute to raise their prices, and one
that will not endanger their prosperity.
That is what I think we ought to do.
Now comes the second point. Many
people say: "But Mr. President, since we
have had all of these great areas of prog-
ress in the field of world affairs over the
past year, why can't we just take it out of
the defense budget?"
Let me lay it on the line there, as I have
tried to all along here. First, virtually
every man at this table that I have met
has stood for a strong national defense. I
thank you for that. I want to tell you
why it is necessary.
Yes, I have made a trip to Peking. I
made a trip to Moscow where we nego-
tiated an historic arms limitation, the first
stage of that. And we have a peace agree-
ment in Vietnam. Our POW's have re-
turned home and the rest of our men. This
is the first time in 12 years that no Ameri-
can ground forces, armed forces, military
forces, are stationed in Vietnam.
But now, in view of all that progress,
they said, "Why not cut the Federal
budget?"
Let's look at how we got where we are,
the reason we got where we are. In dealing
with the People's Republic of China, the
leaders of one-fourth of all the people
in this world, who will be a super power
20 years from now-maybe even 10 years
from now, if they want to be-and in deal-
ing with the Soviet Union, who are
roughly equal with the United States in
military power today, it is essential, if
you are going to make any kind of deal
with them, that in order to get something
from them, you have got to have some-
thing to give.
And that is why, when the Congress
during the past 4 years, from time to time,
and particularly before I went to the sum-
mit in Moscow with the leaders in the
Kremlin-when they said let's don't build
the ABM, or let's cut back on this area
of defense and the rest; let's wait to see
what happens at the summit-that would
have been simply cutting the legs off of the
President before he ever got there.
Because, I can assure you, I have sat
down across the table from these leaders;
they are strong and also very realistic, and
as far as they are concerned, unless you
have got something that they want, they
are not going to give something that you
want.
Now, let's look at the next year. We are
now in the process of more meetings with
the Soviet Union, not simply for a tem-
porary-which we presently have-limita-
tion on offensive nuclear weapons, which,
incidentally, will eventually reduce the
cost of our defenses, we hope, but also the
danger of nuclear war, we would hope.
We are having negotiations with the
Soviets in that area.
But in the fall we are going to have
some negotiations with what are called
commonly the Warsaw Pact countries,
the Communist countries, for a mutual re-
duction of forces in Europe.
Some very well-intentioned Congress-
men and Senators, who say they are for
disarmament and say they are for peace,
say, "Well, before we have these meet-
ings, let's cut our defense budget by $10
billion; let's not build the Trident; let's
reduce our forces in Europe by 100,000,
because we don't need them any more.”
Let me tell you this: A strong United
States is not a threat to the peace of the
world. What we must realize, also, is that
if before we have a meeting with the men
in the Kremlin, and if before we have
negotiations, as we will have this fall with
293
