Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
ponent of our military posture. It is on
them that our security and that of our
allies is most heavily dependent.
While our goals are unchanged, there
have been fundamental changes in the
strategic military environment. Approxi-
mate nuclear parity between the United
States and the Soviet Union is now a
strategic reality and has been confirmed
in strategic arms control agreements.
Certain technological advances, however,
could become destabilizing. So it is, there-
fore, imperative that we continue to assess
the adequacy of our strategic policy and
programs in light of advances made by
potential adversaries.
The task is greatly complicated by the
long lead time required to make signifi-
cant changes in these forces. Because of
the extended development phase for new
systems, a lengthy period could pass before
a nation perceived that it was falling dan-
gerously behind. From that point, it would
require another considerable period be-
fore the imbalance could be corrected.
We must plan now to have a strategic
force that will be adequate to meet po-
tential threats of the next decade. We
must develop our programs in the context
of an uncertain world situation and ac-
celerating technological possibilities.
During the 1960's missiles were rela-
tively inaccurate and single warheads
were the rule. Today, accuracies have
improved significantly and missiles carry
multiple warheads that can be independ-
ently targeted. In the present environment
it would be misleading to measure suffi-
ciency only by calculating destructive
power in megatonnage. The quality of
weapons systems, and their survivability,
are vital determinants of sufficiency.
The SALT Agreement of May 1972
halted the rapid numerical growth of So-
viet strategic offensive systems. Within
the limits of the current SALT Agree-
ment, however, strategic modernization
programs may continue. We must, there-
fore, carefully assess the efforts the Soviets
are making to improve their capabilities
and must pace our programs accordingly.
-At least three new Soviet Intercon-
tinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs)
are being developed: a new, very
large missile which could have
greater capability than the SS-9,
which is now the largest operational
Soviet missile; a smaller ICBM, pos-
sibly intended as a follow-on to the
SS-11 missile; and a solid propellant
ICBM, probably designed to replace
the SS-13 or possibly to provide a
mobile capability.
-These new missiles may well carry
MIRVs with accuracies which would
increase the vulnerability of our land-
based missiles, thus jeopardizing the
current strategic stability.
-The Soviet Union has begun deploy-
ment of a new submarine capable of
submerged launch of a 4,000-mile-
range missile.
-The Soviet ABM research and de-
velopment program continues
unabated.
If present trends continue and we do
not take remedial steps, the forces which
we currently rely upon to survive an at-
tack and to retaliate could be more
vulnerable. At some time in the future we
could face a situation in which during a
crisis there could be a premium to the side
that initiated nuclear war. This would
be an unstable and dangerous strategic
relationship. Such a strategic environment
is unacceptable.
481
