Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
changing climate at home. Americans
needed a new positive vision of the world
and our place in it. In order to continue to
do what only America could, we had to
demonstrate that our friends were doing
more. While maintaining strong defenses,
we also had to seek national security
through negotiations with adversaries.
And where American families were most
directly affected, we had to gain a peace
with honor to win domestic support for
our new foreign policy as well as to make
it credible abroad.
We have thus paid great attention, as in
these Reports, to the articulation, as well
as the implementation, of our new role in
the world.
THE PAST YEAR
My previous Reports chronicled our
progress during the first three years of
this Administration. Despite shifting cur-
rents, and recognizing that the calendar
cannot draw neat dividing lines, there has
been a positive evolution.
In 1969, we defined our basic approach,
drawing the blueprint of a new strategy
for peace.
In 1970, we implemented new policies,
building toward peace.
In 1971, we made essential break-
throughs, and a global structure of peace
emerged.
This past year we realized major results
from our previous efforts. Together they
are shaping a durable peace.
-Three years of careful groundwork
produced an historic turning point in
our relations with the People's Re-
public of China. My conversations
with Chinese leaders in February
1972 reestablished contact between
the world's most powerful and the
world's most populous countries,
thereby transforming the postwar
landscape. The journey to Peking
launched a process with immense po-
tential for the betterment of our peo-
ples and the building of peace in Asia
and the world. Since then we have
moved to concrete measures which
are improving relations and creating
more positive conditions in the re-
gion. China is becoming fully en-
gaged with us and the world. The
process is not inexorable, however.
Both countries will have to continue
to exercise restraint and contribute
to a more stable environment.
-The May 1972 summit meeting with
the leadership of the Soviet Union
achieved a broad range of significant
agreements. Negotiations across
wide front, which set the stage for
the meeting, were successfully con-
cluded in Moscow. Progress in one
area reinforced progress in others.
For the first time two nations agreed
to limit the strategic weapons that
are the heart of their national sur-
vival. We launched cooperative
ventures in several fields. We agreed
on basic principles to govern our re-
lations. Future areas of cooperation
and negotiation were opened up.
There has been, in sum, major move-
ment toward a steadier and more
constructive relationship. On the
other hand, areas of tension and po-
tential conflict remain, and certain
patterns of Soviet behavior continue
to cause concern.
-The attainment of an honorable set-
tlement in Vietnam was the most
satisfying development of this past
year. Successful Vietnamization and
355
