Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
ment any sooner than we did. Some
observers have asked why we did not nego-
tiate this settlement four years ago. The
answer is simply that it was impossible to
do so at any time before October 1972.
As the record makes clear, the North
Vietnamese from the very outset always
insisted on linking political and military
issues. They always demanded removal of
the government in South Vietnam and the
installation of a Communist-dominated
structure. They never varied from that
basic approach until the final months of
this Administration's first term. Once we
had achieved this breakthrough, we
moved as rapidly as possible to complete
the settlement.
Peace in Vietnam will depend not only
on the provisions of the Agreement but on
the spirit in which it is implemented. It
was vital to reach a settlement that would
provide a framework for South Viet-
namese self-determination and for our
honorable disengagement. We have never
been under the illusion, however, that any
single document would instantly move the
people of the region from a generation of
war and hatred to peace and reconcilia-
tion.
We have laid the best obtainable foun-
dation for the beginning of this process.
We hope that the contending factions will
now prefer to pursue their objectives
through peaceful means and political
competition rather than through the
brutal and costly methods of the past. This
choice is up to them. We shall be vigilant
concerning violations of the Agreement.
We are always ready to encourage accom-
modation among the South Vietnamese.
But the peace and progress of South Viet-
nam and its political future depend on the
people themselves.
ONGOING EFFORTS TO MAINTAIN THE
PEACE
In the period immediately following the
signing of the Agreement, we moved on
several fronts to promote its implementa-
tion. We talked to our adversaries, to our
friends, and to other countries principally
involved in guaranteeing the peace.
Prisoners of War and Missing in Action.
The Four Party Joint Military Commis-
sion started immediately to make the ar-
rangements for release of our prisoners of
war. The two sides exchanged lists of pris-
oners of war on January 27, the date of
the signing. The list of prisoners captured
in Laos was furnished by North Vietnam
on February 1. A U.S. team from the State
and Defense Departments flew to Hanoi
on February 12 to pick up the first group
of returnees; another group was freed
in South Vietnam the same day, and fur-
ther releases were due at 15 day intervals.
When there appeared to be stalling, we
immediately held up U.S. force with-
drawals to emphasize the importance we
attached to prompt and full compliance
with the Agreement and Protocols. Re-
leases then continued on schedule. A final
dispute over the release of the U.S. pris-
oners of war captured in Laos was re-
solved when the Communist side agreed
to release them in Hanoi on March 28. In
the meanwhile, the Republic of Vietnam,
with our support released the more than
26,000 prisoners of war in its custody.
With the return of our prisoners, our
efforts turned to the missing in action.
More than 1300 U.S. military personnel
and civilians remain in this category. The
Vietnam Agreement contained unprece-
dentedly specific language on this issue-
with similar provisions in the Laos cease-
391
