Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 4 [348]
ture of confrontation which would in-
evitably lead to a conflagration which
could destroy the civilization as we know
it.
I am not suggesting that because the
President and I met in 1967 and had such
a full and frank discussion, and met again
on three other occasions in which these
discussions were renewed, that those dis-
cussions were the reasons for the progress
that has been made. What I do say, how-
is this: that our distinguished guest
ever,
tonight, of the world's statesmen, has
played one of the most profound roles of
any world statesman in seeing the whole
problems that we confront in the world,
and not just those involving his own coun-
try and another country with whose leader
he might be talking at a certain time. He
has shown wisdom and understanding
and has contributed enormously to the
opening of dialogs that might otherwise
have forever been closed.
And so, tonight, when we cannot, un-
fortunately, say that we have peace that
will last forever-because it may not be
possible ever for that to be said for sure
by anyone-while it cannot be said that
because the leaders of the Soviet Union
and the United States have met at two
summit meetings, that that means that
the differences those two great powers
have are ended, because they have not
ended and they will not because our in-
terests are different, something the Presi-
dent recognizes, something we recognize.
And it does not mean that the People's
Republic of China, with 800 million peo-
ple, because of a visit by the President of
the United States and other diplomatic
visits which followed, has so changed the
relationship that those two nations and
those two peoples will forever find them-
selves as friends, not just as individuals,
but as nations, but being the pragmatists
that we are, the President and I, we both
agree it means this:
Something very profound and some-
thing very positive has happened in these
past 6 years. The world has changed, and
it has changed for the better. A war in
which the United States was engaged, a
very costly one, is over. A new relation-
ship has been developed between the two
most powerful nations, and also a new
relationship between the United States
and the world's most populous nation.
And all of this means that the chance
that we can avoid a world struggle is
greatly increased.
But the point I particularly want to
make tonight is this: that as the eyes of
the world inevitably turn to the meetings
at the summit involving the leaders of
great powers, that as far as this Nation is
concerned, never at one of these meetings
in the past, at least on the occasions of our
participation in them since I have been in
this office, and never in the future, as long
as our present policies are continued, will
the United States, in developing better
relations with great powers, do so at the
expense of the independence and the sov-
ereignties of proud, fine people like our
friends in Romania.
I
say that because there is a tendency
sometimes for us to believe that all the
world's problems would be so easily
soluble if only those with great power
would use their power to impose those
solutions around the world. Now, the
great powers have special responsibilities,
but as far as the United States of Amer-
ica is concerned, we have a special feel-
ing also in our hearts for people from a
country like Romania, a proud people
993
