Richard Nixon, 1973
May 2 [137]
the very products of a peace that is no longer
as much threatened as it used to be. In this
"Year of Europe," as you have called it, we
must begin to seek solutions based on prin-
ciples which will guide our Atlantic zone of
partnership for long periods to come. For this,
you, Mr. President, have had an orientation
indicated as the European summit conference
tried to do last fall.
Security, trade, monetary affairs, noneco-
nomic cooperation-there is certainly no lack
of common tasks. Helsinki and Vienna:
Chances of the relations between East and
West begin to become clearer. But without the
American commitment, this will not become a
reality.
By means of the treaties of Moscow and
Warsaw and especially by means of our treaty
with East Germany, the Federal Republic of
Germany has played its part in order to open
the way for multilateral efforts toward détente.
The efforts of our so-called Ostpolitik are in-
deed, as Secretary of State, Mr. Rogers, and
Dr. Kissinger have underlined, in perfect har-
mony with your own worldwide peace diplo-
macy, Mr. President.
We shall face all challenges in the spirit of
your own words, Mr. President: Courage, you
once said, or putting it more accurately, lack
of fear is the result of discipline.
We are confident that we shall succeed in
organizing European peace in the course of
establishing the balance of world power which
you have described. And this is where the words
of an author may come true, who is not en-
137
tirely unknown to those present here this
evening, and who wrote power could be trans-
formed into "an instrument of self-control."
Yet we should not deceive ourselves. Or-
ganized peace will not be a period of social
immobility. This would be neither possible nor
desirable for our nations. European Europe has
begun the search for common answers to these
problems, too, conscious that for our nations a
good overall policy can no longer be kept
separate from the dynamics of developments in
the social field.
Though the process of European union is by
far not complete, you will, I am sure, sense the
reality of our desire that this Europe be ap-
proached already now in such a way that it
will be the one big important partner. I perceive
of the courage to face the reality of tomorrow
the most dependable guarantee for our be-
longing together.
I am most grateful for the talks today, Mr.
President, and also grateful that you have given
me the chance to say that it is not only a
great honor, but it is just as if a soldier is put
into the most important task, that you ask me
to join in this common fight to make peace
safer together, the two of us, and together
with our partners.
Thank you very much.
I propose a toast, ladies and gentlemen, to
the health of the President of the United States,
to the health of Mrs. Nixon, to the future of
what ties Europe and America together, and
hence to the happiness of our peoples. To the
President of the United States.
Statement About Signing a Bill Extending the
Economic Stabilization Act of 1970. May 2, 1973
THE CONGRESS has passed, and I have
signed into law, an extension of the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Act. This legislation
will permit continuation of a constructive
and orderly program to restore price
stability, and I congratulate the Congress
on its action.
After 18 months of great progress
against inflation, prices soared again in
February and March. Most of the in-
creases were in the price of food, an area
that strikes home for each of us every
day. In these circumstances the tempta-
tion was strong to go for the superficially
simple solution-to freeze prices across
the board or even roll them back. We
carefully considered that alternative. We
firmly concluded, however, that such a
339
