Richard Nixon, 1973
I
Mar. 1 [61]
responsible, and responsive component of
the American system of justice.
I shall soon propose legislation to the
Congress to form a legal services corpora-
tion so constituted as to permit its attor-
neys to practice according to the highest
professional standards, provided with safe-
guards against politicization of its activi-
ties, and held accountable to the people
through appropriate monitoring and eval-
uation procedures.
CIVIL RIGHTS
Protecting the civil rights of every
American is one of my firmest commit-
ments as President. No citizen should be
denied equal justice and equal opportu-
nity in our society because of race, color,
sex, religion, or national origin.
This Administration has steadily in-
creased the Federal financial commitment
in this field. Outlays for civil rights and
equal opportunity in 1974 will pass $3 bil-
lion-32 times what they were when
we took office.
We have worked hard-and with good
results to end de jure school segregation,
to promote equal job opportunity, to com-
bat housing discrimination, to foster mi-
nority business enterprise, to uphold
voting rights, to assist minority higher ed-
ucation, to meet minority health problems
like sickle cell anemia, and to make prog-
ress on many other fronts.
Now that equal opportunity is clearly
written into the statute books, the next
and in many ways more difficult step in-
volves moving from abstract legal rights
to concrete economic opportunities. We
must ensure real social mobility—the free-
dom of all Americans to make their own
choices and to go as far and as high as
their abilities will take them. Legislation
and court decisions play a major part in
establishing that freedom. But commu-
nity attitudes, government programs, and
the vigor of the economic system all play
large parts as well.
I believe that we have made progress,
and we shall continue building on that
progress in the coming year:
-The Department of Justice will ex-
pand its efforts to guarantee equal
access to, and equal benefit from,
Federal financial assistance pro-
grams.
-The Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission will receive additional
resources to carry out its expanded
responsibilities.
-The Civil Service Commission will
expand its monitoring of equal em-
ployment opportunities within the
Federal Government.
-Efforts to assure that Federal con-
tractors provide equal access to job
opportunities will be expanded.
-The Small Business Administration
will expand its loan program for
minority business by nearly one-
third.
-The Commission on Civil Rights will
receive additional resources to carry
out its newly granted responsibilities.
Additionally, in the year ahead, we will
continue to support ratification of the
Equal Rights Amendment to the Consti-
tution so that American women-not a
minority group but a majority of the whole
population-need never again be denied
equal opportunity.
THE AMERICAN INDIAN
For Indian people the policy of this
Administration will continue to be one of
advancing their opportunities for self-
31-870 O-75-13
143
