[233] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
interfere impermissibly with individual
liberty. It is essential that such mistakes
not be repeated. But it is also essential that
we do not overreact to particular mistakes
by tying the President's hands in a way
that would risk sacrificing our security,
and with it all our liberties.
I shall continue to meet my constitu-
tional responsibility to protect the secu-
rity of this Nation so that Americans may
enjoy their freedom. But I shall and can
do so by constitutional means, in ways
that will not threaten that freedom.
As we look at Watergate in a longer
perspective, we can see that its abuses
resulted from the assumption by those in-
volved that their cause placed them be-
yond the reach of those rules that apply
to other persons and that hold a free
society together.
That attitude can never be tolerated in
our country. However, it did not suddenly
develop in the year 1972. It became fash-
ionable in the 1960's as individuals and
groups increasingly asserted the right to
take the law into their own hands, insist-
ing that their purposes represented a
higher morality. Then their attitude was
praised in the press and even from some
of our pulpits as evidence of a new ideal-
ism. Those of us who insisted on the old
restraints, who warned of the overriding
importance of operating within the law
and by the rules, were accused of being
reactionaries.
That same attitude brought a rising
spiral of violence and fear, of riots and
arson and bombings, all in the name of
peace and in the name of justice. Political
discussion turned into savage debate. Free
speech was brutally suppressed as hecklers
shouted down or even physically assaulted
those with whom they disagreed. Serious
people raised serious questions about
whether we could survive as a free
democracy.
The notion that the end justifies the
means proved contagious. Thus, it is not
surprising, even though it is deplorable,
that some persons in 1972 adopted the
morality that they themselves had rightly
condemned and committed acts that have
no place in our political system.
Those acts cannot be defended. Those
who were guilty of abuses must be pun-
ished. But ultimately, the answer does not
lie merely in the jailing of a few over-
zealous persons who mistakenly thought
their cause justified their violations of the
law.
Rather, it lies in a commitment by all
of us to show a renewed respect for the
mutual restraints that are the mark of a
free and a civilized society. It requires
that we learn once again to work together,
if not united in all of our purposes, then
at least united in respect for the system by
which our conflicts are peacefully resolved
and our liberties maintained.
If there are laws we disagree with, let
us work to change them, but let us obey
them until they are changed. If we have
disagreements over Government policies,
let us work those out in a decent and
civilized way, within the law, and with
respect for our differences.
We must recognize that one excess be-
gets another, and that the extremes of
violence and discord in the 1960's con-
tributed to the extremes of Watergate.
Both are wrong. Both should be con-
demned. No individual, no group, and
no political party has a corner on the
market on morality in America.
If we learn the important lessons of
Watergate, if we do what is necessary to
696
