Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [233]
prevent such abuses in the future-on
both sides—we can emerge from this ex-
perience a better and a stronger nation.
Let me turn now to an issue that is
important above all else and that is criti-
cally affecting your life today and will
affect your life and your children's life in
the years to come.
After 12 weeks and 2 million words of
televised testimony, we have reached a
point at which a continued, backward-
looking obsession with Watergate is caus-
ing this Nation to neglect matters of far
greater importance to all of the American
people.
We must not stay so mired in Watergate
that we fail to respond to challenges of
surpassing importance to America and
the world. We cannot let an obsession
with the past destroy our hopes for the
future.
Legislation vital to your health and
well-being sits unattended on the Con-
gressional calendar. Confidence at home
and abroad in our economy, our currency,
our foreign policy is being sapped by un-
certainty. Critical negotiations are taking
place on strategic weapons and on troop
levels in Europe that can affect the se-
curity of this Nation and the peace of the
world long after Watergate is forgotten.
Vital events are taking place in Southeast
Asia which could lead to a tragedy for
the cause of peace.
These are matters that cannot wait.
They cry out for action now, and either
we, your elected representatives here in
Washington, ought to get on with the
jobs that need to be done for you-or
every one of you ought to be demanding
to know why.
The time has come to turn Watergate
over to the courts, where the questions
of guilt or innocence belong. The time
has come for the rest of us to get on with
the urgent business of our Nation.
Last November, the American people
were given the clearest choice of this cen-
tury. Your votes were a mandate, which
I accepted, to complete the initiatives we
began in my first term and to fulfill the
promises I made for my second term.
This Administration was elected to con-
trol inflation; to reduce the power and
size of Government; to cut the cost of
Government so that you can cut the cost
of living; to preserve and defend those
fundamental values that have made
America great; to keep the Nation's mili-
tary strength second to none; to achieve
peace with honor in Southeast Asia, and to
bring home our prisoners of war; to build
a new prosperity, without inflation and
without war; to create a structure of peace
in the world that would endure long after
we are gone.
These are great goals, they are worthy
of a great people, and I would not be true
to your trust if I let myself be turned aside
from achieving those goals.
If you share my belief in these goals—
if you want the mandate you gave this Ad-
ministration to be carried out-then I ask
for your help to ensure that those who
would exploit Watergate in order to keep
us from doing what we were elected to do
will not succeed.
I ask tonight for your understanding,
so that as a nation we can learn the lessons
of Watergate and gain from that
experience.
I ask for your help in reaffirming our
dedication to the principles of decency,
honor, and respect for the institutions that
have sustained our progress through these
past two centuries.
And I ask for your support in getting
on once again with meeting your prob-
697
