Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [265]
I will submit to the Congress. They in-
clude efforts to encourage home improve-
ments and to facilitate the purchase of
mobile homes; measures to ease the Fed-
eral burdens in disposing of the large and
still growing number of properties re-
turning to the Government upon default;
and steps to streamline and reduce the
processing time for FHA applications, in-
cluding a proposal that would move to-
ward the Veterans Administration tech-
nique of coinsurance. I urge their prompt
consideration.
The American dream cannot be com-
plete for any of us unless it is within the
reach of all of us. A decent home in a suit-
able living environment is an essential
part of that dream.
We have done a great deal as a peo-
ple toward ensuring that objective for
every American family in recent years.
Our success should not be a reason for
complacency, however; rather, it should
reinforce both our determination to com-
plete this work and our confidence that
we can reach our goal.
The measures I have discussed in this
message can make a significant contribu-
tion to that great undertaking. I look for-
ward to working closely with the Congress
in advancing these efforts.
The White House,
September 19, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the Federal housing policy recom-
mendations and actions by Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development James T. Lynn.
265 White House Statement on House Action Sustaining
the Minimum Wage Bill Veto.
THE PRESIDENT is gratified by the
action of the House of Representatives in
sustaining his veto of the bill to raise the
minimum wage. As he stated in his veto
message, this bill would have been infla-
tionary and would have penalized the
workers who can least afford it by jeopard-
izing employment opportunities for low
wage earners and the unemployed, espe-
cially nonstudent teenagers.
The President wishes to commend the
House for this responsible action, which
was made possible by the courageous votes
September 19, 1973
of many Members to sustain the veto in
spite of intense pressure exerted upon
them in the opposite direction.
It is now up to the Congress to replace
the vetoed bill this year with a new bill
which will bring the minimum wage in
line with the increased cost of living while
doing so in a way that helps to check in-
flation and that protects jobs for low-
income workers. President Nixon reaffirms
his pledge to cooperate fully with the
House and Senate to achieve speedy pas-
sage of this urgently needed legislation.
813
