[135] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
on every hand. Western Europe is now a
bulwark of freedom in the Atlantic Alli-
ance. In the Pacific, Japan has emerged
as a major economic power. The remark-
able vigor and talents of her people and
the dynamic efficiency of her industry are
making significant and increasing contri-
butions to other countries, so that Japan
itself now plays an extremely important
role in working toward a lasting peace in
the Pacific.
In recent years, as we have sought a
new definition of American leadership in
the world, assistance to other nations has
remained a key part of our foreign policy.
Under the Nixon Doctrine of shared re-
sponsibilities, we have tried to stimulate
greater efforts by others. We want them to
take on an increasing commitment to pro-
vide for their own defenses, their security
and their economic development. Most
importantly, we hope they will assume
greater responsibility for making the deci-
sions which shape their future.
We must not, however, try to shift the
full weight of these responsibilities too
quickly. A balance must be struck between
doing too much ourselves and thus dis-
couraging self-reliance, and doing too lit-
tle to help others make the most of their
limited resources. The latter course would
spell defeat for the promising progress of
many developing nations, destroy their
growing self-confidence, and increase the
likelihood of international instability.
Thus it is critical that we provide a level
of foreign assistance that will help to as-
sure our friends safe passage through this
period of transition and development.
The sums I am requesting in the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1973 represent the
absolute minimum prudent investment
which the United States can afford to
make if we wish to help create a peaceful
and prosperous world. Altogether, author-
izations under this bill amount to $2.9 bil-
lion for economic and military assistance
in the coming fiscal year. During the cur-
rent fiscal year, some $2.6 billion has been
appropriated for such purposes under the
strictures of a continuing resolution passed
by the Congress.
This new Foreign Assistance Act has
several fundamental objectives:
-To help the developing countries
achieve a greater measure of self-re-
liance in their struggle against hun-
ger, disease and poverty:
-To respond swiftly to the ravages of
natural disasters;
-To assist friendly governments in
building and maintaining the mili-
tary capability to protect their in-
dependence and security;
-And to help South Vietnam, Cambo-
dia, and Laos begin the task of re-
habilitating and reconstructing their
war-torn countries.
Let us look more closely at each of these
objectives.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
Hunger, poverty and disease are still
widespread among developing countries,
despite their significant progress of recent
years. Their economic growth-averaging
some 5.5 percent a year over the last dec-
ade-as well as rapid improvements in
agricultural methods and in health care
have not yet overcome many deep-seated
problems in their societies. Their current
needs represent a moral challenge to all
mankind.
In providing assistance, however, we
should not mislead ourselves into thinking
that we act out of pure altruism. Success-
ful development by friendly nations is im-
334
