[97] Mar. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
and women in the frontlines of the war
against crime-our law enforcement of-
ficers. Public opinion is untying their
hands, and they are once again being
given the public support they deserve in
their efforts to insure that we match pub-
lic support with all the financial, legisla-
tive, and judicial support our police need.
We can turn the tide of crime in Amer-
ica. These statistics demonstrate that we
are well on our way. Now we must have
the tools we need to finish the job. I call
upon the Congress to act quickly on this
Administration's proposals for law en-
forcement legislation so that we can ad-
vance the work of providing the safe and
secure country our citizens want and de-
serve so much.
98 Address to the Nation About Vietnam and Domestic
Problems. March 29, 1973
Good evening:
Four years and two months ago, when
I first came into this office as President,
by far the most difficult problem confront-
ing the Nation was the seemingly endless
war in Vietnam. Five hundred and fifty
thousand Americans were in Vietnam. As
many as 300 a week were being killed in
action. Hundreds were held as prisoners
of war in North Vietnam. No progress
was being made at the peace negotiations.
I immediately initiated a program to
end the war and win an honorable peace.
Eleven times over the past 4 years I
have reported to the Nation from this
room on the progress we have made to-
ward that goal. Tonight, the day we have
all worked and prayed for has finally
come.
For the first time in 12 years, no Ameri-
can military forces are in Vietnam. All
of our American POW's are on their way
home. The 17 million people of South
Vietnam have the right to choose their
own government without outside inter-
ference, and because of our program of
Vietnamization, they have the strength to
defend that right. We have prevented the
imposition of a Communist government
by force on South Vietnam.
There are still some problem areas. The
provisions of the agreement requiring an
accounting for all missing in action in
Indochina, the provisions with regard to
Laos and Cambodia, the provisions pro-
hibiting infiltration from North Vietnam
into South Vietnam have not been com-
plied with. We have and will continue to
comply with the agreement. We shall in-
sist that North Vietnam comply with the
agreement. And the leaders of North
Vietnam should have no doubt as to the
consequences if they fail to comply with
the agreement.
But despite these difficulties, we can
be proud tonight of the fact that we have
achieved our goal of obtaining an agree
ment which provides peace with honor in
Vietnam.
On this day, let us honor those who
made this achievement possible: those
who sacrificed their lives, those who were
disabled, those who made every one of
us proud to be an American as they re-
turned from years of Communist imprison-
ment, and every one of the 2½ million
Americans who served honorably in our
Nation's longest war. Never have men
served with greater devotion abroad with
less apparent support at home.
234
