Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 3 [281]
I am not saying now, incidentally, cate-
gorically that I will endorse a candidate
before the convention. I reserve the right
to make that decision at a later time. But
certainly, I would say finally that Senator
Percy has been a vigorous campaigner for
the Senate, an articulate spokesman-not
always on the side of the Administration,
but I respect differences of opinion—and
he has every right to seek the Presidency.
He will not be opposed at this time, and
should he prove to be the strongest candi-
date, he will not be opposed, certainly, if
he receives the nomination. I will support
whoever receives that nomination.
FURTHER QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
VICE PRESIDENT
[7.] Mr. Jarriel [Tom Jarriel, ABC
News]. No. Go ahead, I am sorry.
Q. Mr. Risher [Eugene V. Risher,
United Press International].
THE PRESIDENT. Gene Risher. You look
like Jarriel though.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You are not paid as
much as he is though.
Q. I know.
THE PRESIDENT. UPI please note-a
raise in salary.
Q. Could you tell us, Mr. President, if
you have done any contingency planning
about a possible Vice President in the
event that Vice President Agnew leaves
office for any reason?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Risher, certainly
not. It would be highly inappropriate to
have any contingency planning with re-
gard to what should happen if the Vice
President leaves office.
As far as the Vice President is con-
cerned, I have said in my statement of
the 25th of September that he has denied
the charges that have been made against
him, that he is entitled to the presump-
tion of innocence, which is the right of
every American citizen, and I urge all of
my fellow Americans to give him that
presumption of innocence, as I certainly
do. And particularly that presumption of
innocence, I think, should be underlined
in view of his years of distinguished serv-
ice as Vice President, having in mind, too,
the fact that the charges that have been
made against him do not relate in any
way to his activities as Vice President of
the United States.
I would say further in that respect that
I would hope that in this rather white-
hot atmosphere, which I understand has
developed since the Vice President's case
came to public attention, that he will not
be tried and convicted in the press and on
television by leaks and innuendo and the
rest. There is nothing really that is more
harmful to the rights of an individual than
to be tried and convicted in the press be-
fore he has an opportunity to present his
case, and I would urge all of you ladies
and gentlemen, because I know you want
to be responsible in this respect, to make
your judgments on the basis of all the
evidence, not on the basis-
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. Let me finish.
-make your judgment on the basis
of all the evidence and not simply on the
basis of a unilateral charge that is made,
not under oath.
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mollenhoff, yes,
you.
Q. On that particular point, you have
been briefed in some detail on the evi-
dence in the Agnew problem. You are also
a lawyer with some expertise. You could
tell us
841
