Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 29 [376]
376 Statement on Signing the Health Maintenance
Organization Act of 1973.
IT IS with great pleasure that I today
sign into law S. 14, the Health Mainte-
nance Organization Act of 1973. This
legislation will enable the Federal Gov-
ernment to help demonstrate the feasibil-
ity of the HMO concept over the next 5
years.
Expanding the geographic distribution
of health maintenance organizations is an
integral part of the National Health
Strategy that I first proposed nearly 3
years ago. S. 14 is somewhat broader than
the Administration's proposal, but it
nevertheless contains the essential con-
cepts and principles that I support. It will
provide initial Federal development as-
sistance for a limited number of demon-
stration projects, with the intention that
they become self-sufficient within fixed
periods.
The national health insurance bill that
I will be submitting to the next session of
this Congress will allow patients to use
such insurance to join HMO's. For that
reason, it is particularly important that
this demonstration effort get underway
immediately and build upon the mo-
mentum which has already been achieved
in this field.
Health maintenance organizations pro-
vide health care to their members on a
prepaid basis with emphasis on essential
preventive services. The establishment of
HMO's will allow people to select for
themselves either a prepaid system for
obtaining health services or the more tra-
ditional approach which has served the
American people so well over the
years.
The Health Maintenance Organization
Act makes Federal demonstration assist-
ance available both to organized group
December 29, 1973
practices and to medical foundations
which provide prepaid care, further en-
couraging a diversified medical care sys-
tem. HMO's which receive assistance
under this act would agree to provide a
comprehensive package of basic benefits,
including essential preventive services,
along with a list of supplemental benefits
for which the enrollee could make an
extra payment.
Under S. 14, the Government would
provide financial assistance to help vari-
ous groups determine the feasibility of
developing an HMO in their area, as well
as assistance for planning and initial de-
velopment. HMO's would be required to
operate competitively without Federal
subsidies at the end of an initial period of
Federal support.
S. 14 represents one response to the
challenge of finding new and better ways
to improve health care for the people of
this country. It will build on the partner-
ship that exists between the Federal and
private sector by allowing both the pro-
vider and the consumer of health services
to exercise the widest possible freedom of
choice.
The signing of this act marks another
milestone in this Administration's na-
tional health strategy. The major task of
providing financial access to health serv-
ices should be addressed in the next ses-
sion of this Congress with the enactment
of an appropriate and responsive national
health insurance act.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 14 is Public Law 93-222
(87 Stat. 914).
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
The White House also released a fact sheet
1029
