[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am glad we
don't take the vote of this room, let me
say. And I understand the feelings of peo-
ple with regard to impeachment and res-
ignation. As a matter of fact, Mr. Rather,
you may remember that when I made the
rather difficult decision-I thought the
most difficult decision of my first term-
on December 18, the bombing by B-52's
of North Vietnam, that exactly the same
words were used on the networks-I don't
mean by you, but they were quoted on the
networks-that were used now: tyrant,
dictator, he has lost his senses, he should
resign, he should be impeached.
But I stuck it out, and as a result of that,
we not only got our prisoners of war home,
as I have often said, on their feet rather
than on their knees, but we brought peace
to Vietnam, something we haven't had
and didn't for over 12 years.
It was a hard decision, and it was one
that many of my friends in the press who
had consistently supported me on the war
up to that time disagreed with. Now, in
this instance I realize there are people who
feel that the actions that I have taken
with regard to the dismissal of Mr. Cox
are grounds for impeachment.
I would respectfully suggest that even
Mr. Cox and Mr. Richardson have agreed
that the President had the right, constitu-
tional right, to dismiss anybody in the
Federal Government. And second, I
should also point out that as far as the
tapes are concerned, rather than being in
defiance of the law, I am in compliance
with the law.
As far as what goes through my mind,
I would simply say that I intend to con-
tinue to carry out, to the best of my abil-
ity, the responsibilities I was elected to
carry out last November. The events of
this past week--I know, for example, in
your head office in New York, some
thought that it was simply a blown-up
exercise; there wasn't a real crisis. I wish
it had been that. It was a real crisis. It
was the most difficult crisis we have had
since the Cuban confrontation of 1962.
But because we had had our initiative
with the Soviet Union, because I had a
basis of communication with Mr. Brezh-
nev, we not only avoided a confrontation
but we moved a great step forward toward
real peace in the Mideast.
Now, as long as I can carry out that
kind of responsibility, I am going to con-
tinue to do this job.
MOTIVES OF MR. COX
[6.] Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chi-
cago Daily News].
Q. There have been reports that you
felt that Mr. Cox was somehow out to
get you. I would like to ask you if you did
feel that, and if so, what evidence did you
have?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor, I under-
stand Mr. Cox is going to testify next
week under oath before the Judiciary
Committee, and I would suggest that he
perhaps would be better qualified to an-
swer that question.
As far as I am concerned, we had co-
operated with the Special Prosecutor. We
tried to work out in a cooperative way
this matter of the production of the tapes.
He seemed to be more interested in the
issue than he was in a settlement, and un-
der the circumstances, I had no choice
but to dismiss him. But I am not going to
question his motives as to whether or not
he was out to get me. Perhaps the Senators
would like to ask that question.
900
