Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 2 [280]
learned that the group was from Whit-
tier, you came in.
I think of my days there in high school
and college, as a young lawyer, and then
running for the Congress, living there.
Tricia was born in Whittier, you know,
Murphy Memorial Hospital. As I think
back on those years you know, I have
now traveled all of the 50 States and more
than 50 countries, in fact, more countries
than anybody who has ever been in this
office-but there is really nothing that
means so much as seeing people from
home.
Jim Farley, you know, the great chair-
man of the Democratic National Com-
mittee, once told me, he said, "You know,
the most important thing in politics is to
be able to win your own precinct," and we
have always done rather well in Whittier.
But apart from winning it or losing it,
I know that the letters we receive here,
so many are from Whittier and our
friends there, Yorba Linda and Fuller-
ton, La Habra, all the places that I re-
member so well.
Let me say, too, that when I noted
senior citizens on a bus trip of this length,
I just think, who thought up the idea?
Well, it is just a wonderful idea. I can
remember when I was in Whittier-and
to go to Washington, of course, to even
think of the possibility, but here you are
traveling the whole country and seeing
the great parks, and you are going south
next, I understand. It will be beautiful.
Have you seen the fall leaves?
I remember my mother—of course, my
mother, as you know, was born in In-
diana. Most Californians are from some
other State, but the thing that she and
my father, who was also born in the Mid-
west, in Ohio-and they were both from
farms they always missed was the fall
colors.
I took a little ride yesterday with Gen-
eral Haig down through Virginia. We
didn't have much time for this, because
we just go in the car and work a bit, and
already while going south, the colors
aren't as brilliant as they will be a month
from now. If you go further north, they
are pretty good right now, but you will
find the colors very beautiful and some-
thing we don't have in California. We
have almost everything else, though.
Let me say finally that Mrs. Nixon, as
you know, Pat-as a matter of fact, this
is one of the few crowds that comes in
here and you call me Dick; my mother
used to call me Richard, and I appreciate
that, too-but Pat will be over in the
White House, and she is going to have you
for coffee in a very famous room. It is
called the Yellow Oval Room. In fact, the
mark of the White House is oval rooms.
This is an oval office, and the Yellow
Oval Room is a room that the visitors do
not get to see, that is, the regular tourists,
because it is on the second floor of the
family rooms, and it is one of the most
beautiful rooms in the whole White
House. It is where the state visitors come
and are received by the President before
going down to the big state dinners. So
when you are up there, just remember that
coming as you do from Whittier, you are
all going to be either a king or a queen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House, where he re-
ceived a group of more than 40 senior citizens,
who were on a 35-day tour of the United States.
837
