[358] Dec. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
for his fellow Americans, and for people
all over the world. And this year, while
we have a problem, a problem the Sec-
retary has alluded to, the problem of en-
ergy, I think that what we can all be
thankful for is that it is a problem of peace
and not a problem of war. That is what
Americans can be thankful for.
This year we will drive a little slower.
This year the thermostats will be a little
lower. This year every American perhaps
will sacrifice a little, but no one will suf-
fer. But we will do it for a great goal, the
goal, first, of seeing to it that in a year
when our energy supplies are not as high
as we need, we can prepare for the future,
and also a year in which America will
make a great stride forward toward a new,
great goal, and that is, by the year 1980
this Nation, which will celebrate its 200th
anniversary of independence in 1976-
by 1980 will celebrate Project Independ-
ence, when we are independent of any
other country in the world where our en-
ergy supply is concerned. That we can do.
As we consider these problems of peace,
I think also we must be thankful, as the
Secretary has already indicated, for the
fact that this is the first Christmas in 12
years that a President has stood here at a
time when America was at peace with
every nation in the world.
It is the first Christmas in 8 years when
no American prisoner of war is away from
home at Christmas. And to all of these
young people, and particularly to our very
distinguished young people who partici-
pated in this program, it is also a Christ-
mas for the first time in 20 years when no
young American is being drafted for the
armed services. That is what peace means
to America.
It would be well, of course, for us to
stand simply on that achievement, but
we know that there will always be threats
to the peace of the world, and that is
where we come in, and where each Amer-
ican comes in, looking to the future. Be-
cause as we look at the chances not just
of getting peace, which we have now
achieved, but of keeping peace, which we
have not been able to do for a full genera-
tion, for a century, then what happens in
America will decide it, whether America
has the strength not just of its arms but
more, of its spirit to provide the leader-
ship that the world needs to keep the
trouble spots in the world from blowing
up into war and to build that permanent
structure of peace that we all want.
It is that to which we dedicate our-
selves as we light the Nation's Christmas
tree tonight. Let the year 1974 be one
in which we make great progress toward
the goal of a lasting peace, peace not only
for America but for all nations, peace
between peoples who have different forms
of government, but who nevertheless can
be friends.
A moment ago when the flowers were
presented to Mrs. Nixon by Tyna, I re-
membered an occasion in 1959 when a
little girl presented flowers to her in the
Ural Mountains in Russia. We were driv-
ing through the mountains, and a group
of schoolchildren stopped the cavalcade
for a few moments and they presented
flowers to Mrs. Nixon. And when they did
so in this year 1959, when the cold war
was still going on, they shouted out
"Friendship, friendship" in English.
When we got back into the car, our guide,
Mr. Zhukov, said to me that the first word
that a Russian child who learns English
1012
