[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
needed a new philosophy that would re-
flect and reconcile two basic principles:
A structure of peace requires the greater
participation of other nations, but it also
requires the sustained participation of
the United States.
To these ends, we developed the Nixon
Doctrine of shared responsibilities. This
Doctrine was central to our approach to
major allies in the Atlantic and Pacific.
But it also shaped our attitude toward
those in Latin America, Asia, and Africa
with whom we were working in formal
alliances or friendship.
Our primary purpose was to invoke
greater efforts by others-not so much
to lighten our burdens as to increase their
commitment to a new and peaceful struc-
ture. This would mean that increasingly
they would man their own defenses and
furnish more of the funds for their secu-
rity and economic development. The
corollary would be the reduction of the
American share of defense or financial
contributions.
More fundamental than this material
redistribution, however, was a psycholog-
ical reorientation. Nations had habitually
relied on us for political leadership. Much
time and energy went into influencing
decisions in Washington. Our objective
now was to encourage them to play a
greater role in formulating plans and pro-
grams. For when others design their secu-
rity and their development, they make
their destiny truly their own. And when
plans are their plans, they are more moti-
vated to make them realities.
The lowering of our profile was not an
end in itself. Other countries needed to do
more, but they could not do so without a
concerned America. Their role had to be
increased, but this would prove empty
unless we did what we must. We could
not go from overinvolvement to neglect.
A changing world needed the continuity
of America's strength.
Thus we made clear that the Nixon
Doctrine represented a new definition of
American leadership, not abandonment
of that leadership. In my 1971 Report, I
set forth the need for a responsible
balance:
"The Nixon Doctrine recognizes that
we cannot abandon friends, and must not
transfer burdens too swiftly. We must
strike a balance between doing too much
and thus preventing self-reliance, and do-
ing too little and thus undermining self-
confidence.
"The balance we seek abroad is crucial.
We only compound insecurity if we modi-
fy our protective or development respon-
sibilities without giving our friends the
time and the means to adjust, materially
and psychologically, to a new form of
American participation in the world.
"Precipitate shrinking of the American
role would not bring peace. It would not
reduce America's stake in a turbulent
world. It would not solve our problems,
either abroad or at home."
Peace had a domestic dimension.
Steadiness abroad required steadiness at
home. America could continue to make
its vital contribution in the world only if
Americans understood the need and sup-
ported the effort to do so. But understand-
ing and support for a responsible foreign
policy were in serious jeopardy in 1969.
Years of burdens, Cold War tensions, and
a difficult war threatened to undermine
our constancy.
While new policies were required to
meet transformed conditions abroad, they
were equally imperative because of the
354
