[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
forces at the levels necessary for national
security. I have directed the Secretary of
Defense to give these matters the most
urgent attention.
In the next four years, we will continue
to be faced with important choices con-
cerning national priorities. But I am de-
termined that our military power will re-
main second to none. The experiences of
the past four years have confirmed the
wisdom and absolute necessity of a strong
and committed America in the world. It
is the only sound foundation on which
peace can be built.
ARMS CONTROL
The progress recorded in arms control
over the past four years has been un-
precedented. Four major agreements have
been achieved:
-In February 1971, an international
treaty was signed that bans the em-
placement of nuclear weapons on
the seabed or ocean floor.
-In September 1971, the United
States and the Soviet Union agreed
on a series of measures to reduce the
danger of accidental war.
-In April 1972, an international treaty
was signed that bans the develop-
ment, production, and stockpiling of
biological weapons and toxins.
-On May 26, 1972, I signed for the
United States two agreements with
the Soviet Union limiting strategic
offensive and defensive armaments.
These accomplishments represent the
initial fulfillment of my commitment to
limit the most dangerous forms of weap-
onry as part of our broader objective of
moving from confrontation to negotia-
tion. Each of these agreements is im-
portant. But their cumulative impact is
even greater than their specific merits.
They reflect a new political attitude to-
ward arms limitation by the United
States and the Soviet Union and within
the international community generally.
Arms control has taken on new signifi-
cance in the nuclear age and represents
an important component of national se-
curity policy. When this Administration
took office there were several factors that
suggested an agreement to limit strategic
weapons might be attainable:
-In the classical balance of power sys-
tem, most national leaders were con-
cerned with accumulating geopolit-
ical and military power that could
be translated into immediate advan-
tage. In the nuclear era, both the
United States and the Soviet Union
have found that an increment of
military power does not necessarily
represent an increment of usable po-
litical strength, because of the exces-
sive destructiveness of nuclear weap-
ons in relation to the objective.
-The accumulation of strategic power
offered no guarantee of achieving a
decisive military advantage, since
neither the United States nor the
Soviet Union would passively accept
a change in the overall balance.
Moreover, with modern weapons, a
potentially decisive advantage re-
quires a change of such magnitude
that the mere effort to obtain it could
produce a disaster.
Modern technology, however, of-
fered an apparently endless oppor-
tunity for the further sophistication
of both offensive and defensive
weaponry. In particular, a nation
might be able simultaneously to de-
490
