Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 16 [123]
possibility of broadening the war," and
that sort of thing.
Believe me, I thought about all those
things before I made the decision, and it
was one of the tough ones. But let me say
then again, May 8, 1972, I didn't have
to call you. Your leaders, some of the
men right around this table, called me and
said, "Mr. President, we back what you
are doing."
And then December 18, the toughest
decision I made as President, when the
North Vietnamese reneged on the agree-
ment that they had made with us, the
peace agreement, earlier in October and
November, and when I had to order the
renewal of the bombing of North Viet-
nam and the use of B-52's.
I thought I was really alone then, but
again, I heard from you. What I am
simply saying is this: Had it not been for
those hard decisions, had it not been for
what we did in Cambodia, had it not
been for what we did on May 8, had it
not been for what we did on December 18,
our prisoners of war would still be in
Hanoi. And thanks to you and the support
of the American people, they are home,
and we are building a peace in this world.
Gentlemen, I am simply saying to you,
as I conclude, that I will tell whoever suc-
ceeds me in this office, that when it comes
to national security, when it comes to
maintaining the strength and the respect
of America all over the world, that he will
find that he has no greater support than
among those who are proud members of
the building trades in America.
And I say to you, too, that looking down
the road, history will look back at this
period, and it will record that these men-
and let me make this point-most of
whom are not members of the party of
which I am a member, politically, most of
whom in 1968 did not support me, but
these men, when the chips were down and
when the question was respect for the
United States, when the question was
strength of the United States, that these
men, to a man, stood for not party, but
what was best for America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 a.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan and
Robert A. Georgine, secretary-treasurer of the
Building and Construction Trades Department,
AFL-CIO, who was chairman of the confer-
ence.
123 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Stockpile
Disposal Legislation. April 16, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
In our current fight against rising prices,
one weapon which has not yet been effec-
tively employed is our national strategic
stockpile. Today I am asking for authority
from the Congress to sell those items in the
stockpile which we no longer need to keep
in reserve in order to protect our national
security.
Because the world economy has grown
so rapidly, short term demand for many
industrial commodities has outpaced short
term supplies. As a result, prices for in-
dustrial commodities have recently been
increasing at unacceptably high rates—in
some cases by more than 30 percent in the
past 12 months alone.
These increases will eventually be felt
295
