[173] June 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
you will have the chance to carry on in
yours. I will not go into detail as to how
that challenge will be met. I will cover
only one point that should be of great
interest to every member of this class.
Because of the progress we have made
toward a more peaceful world the open-
ing to China, the negotiations with the
Soviet Union, the ending of the war in
Vietnam there are many well-inten-
tioned people who honestly feel that un-
der these circumstances the United States
could very safely, unilaterally, regardless
of what the Soviet Union or other nations
do, simply reduce our Armed Forces.
Let me say this: There is no objective
to which I am more committed than to
reduce the danger of war, no objective
to which I am more committed than to
reduce the burden of armaments in the
world. But I do know this: It must be
mutual if we are to carry on the kind of
policy that will lead to real peace, because
if the United States unilaterally reduces
its strength, and another great power
does not reduce its strength, that does not
increase the possibilities for peace; it in-
creases the dangers to the peace.
Let me put it a little more directly. We
will be negotiating with the Soviet leaders
on a mutual reduction of nuclear offen-
sive weapons within about a week. This
fall we will be negotiating with the War-
saw Pact nations with regard to a mutual
reduction of our forces in Europe. This
is an objective to which we will dedicate
ourselves.
But let me say that if, before those ne-
gotiations begin, we say to those with
whom we are negotiating, "Regardless of
what you do, we are going to reduce,"
their incentive to negotiate is gone. I am
saying to you very simply: Keep America
strong, having in mind that a strong
America is no threat to the peace; it is
a guarantee to the peace. Keep America
strong and never send the President of
the United States to the negotiating table
as the head of the second strongest nation
in the world.
I assume that that will be described as
jingoistic talk. So be it. I am simply say-
ing that that is the way to reduce the
dangers which confront the world, be-
cause we, with the power that we have
got whatever mistakes we have made
over this past century- we have no de-
signs on any other country, we do not want
to conquer any other country, we do not
want to dominate any other country. And
therefore, let us keep our strength so that
we can mutually reduce that danger of
both the burden of armaments and dan-
ger of war which otherwise would hang
over the world.
I come now to a second point. For the
United States to meet this enormous chal-
lenge of building the structure of peace
in the world, we not only need military
strength but we need to be strong eco-
nomically. Here we have some problems,
just as we have in the field of foreign
policy. One of those problems everyone is
quite aware of, the problem of rising
prices.
We have a situation, for example,
where we have a boom in this country at
the present time. You in this graduating
class are going to find more job opportu-
nities at higher wages than any graduating
class in our history. But, on the other hand,
we have a situation where, because of that
boom and because of other factors, prices
go up, and that places an enormous bur-
den on the family budget.
Now, what can we do about that? Gov-
ernment, of course, can act, and we shall
act, where we think it is responsible to do
580
