[80] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
is, as we know, espionage by one political
organization against another. And I would
say that as far as your question is con-
cerned, that the argument would be that
the Congress would have a far greater
right and would be on much stronger
ground to ask the Government to cooper-
ate in a matter involving espionage against
the Government than in a matter like this
involving politics.
COMMITTEE FOR THE RE-ELECTION OF THE
PRESIDENT
[12]. Q. Mr. President, you have
talked about the responsibility within the
White House and the responsibility be-
tween Congress and the White House.
Where do you feel your responsibility for
the Committee to Re-Elect the President
begins and ends, Mr. Mitchell or any
other people who were working for them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the responsibil-
ity there, of course, is one that will be
replied to by Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Stans,
and all of those in due course. None of
them have the privilege, none of them,
of course, will refuse to testify, none has
when he is asked to. And I am sure they
will give very good accounts of themselves,
as they have in the court matters that they
have been asked to.
AID TO INDIA AND PAKISTAN
[13] Q. Mr. President, I want to ask
you about peace. You have concentrated
on peace in your Administration. Don't
you find an inconsistency there with con-
tinuing to give arms to India and
Pakistan and perhaps a hundred other
countries around the world?
THE PRESIDENT. First, we are not giving
them, we are selling them.
Q. Isn't that worse? That is even worse.
THE PRESIDENT. I just wanted to be
sure that we understood the difference
because of all the concern about aid. But
the point that is involved in the India-
Pakistan thing has been a very difficult
one for this Administration, because it
involves commitments that were made
before we got here. Those commitments
were made during the Johnson Adminis-
tration. I do not criticize the fact that
they were made, but they were made.
As far as we were concerned, once the
war between India and Pakistan began,
we cut them off, as you recall. We stopped
all economic assistance-not all, but some
economic assistance to India, and we
stopped all military assistance to Pakistan.
Let's look at the numbers: $83 million
in economic assistance to India and $14
million in military assistance to Pakistan.
We have maintained that embargo up to
this point. The difficulty was that there
were contracts that had been made, the
materials had already been, in effect, sold,
and under the circumstances, we felt that
it was time to clean the slate.
So what we have done, the Indians are
getting their $83 million in economic as-
sistance; the Pakistanis are being allowed
to go through with their purchases of the
arms, nonlethal arms, and spare parts.
Now, as far as the whole, the major
problem-and Miss McClendon [Sarah
McClendon, Sarah McClendon News
Service], you have put your finger on the
major problem, and that is peace in the
area-this in no way, in no way, jeopar-
dizes the peace in the area.
After the war that broke Pakistan in
half, India's superiority is so enormous
that the possibility of Pakistan being a
threat to India is absurd.
All we are trying to do is to seek good
212
