[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
land use often have regional and national
consequences. The proposals I have made
are designed to strike a careful balance
between the setting of general standards
at the Federal level and specific enforce-
ment at the State and local level.
We first transmitted the proposed Na-
tional Land Use Policy Act to the Con-
gress in 1971, but there has been no law
enacted since then. I am pleased, how-
ever, that the Senate has passed legislation
incorporating many of the policies I have
proposed. This legislation properly de-
lineates the respective roles of the Federal,
State and local governments in land use
regulation. The Senate bill is deficient,
however, in that it imposes an excessive
financial burden on the Federal Govern-
ment. I am hopeful that a responsible
compromise can be worked out in the
weeks ahead.
TOXIC SUBSTANCES
Because the great quantities of new
chemicals now being used by industry pose
undefined hazards to human life and the
environment, I also asked the Congress
again last February for legislation that
would set standards for determining
whether such chemicals are hazardous.
Such legislation has now passed both
Houses of the Congress and is in confer-
ence committee. Although the Congres-
sional version differs somewhat from the
proposals the Administration has sub-
mitted, this new legislation would take the
essential step of providing the Environ-
mental Protection Agency with significant
new authorities in this area. I am confi-
dent that a reasonable solution will be
ironed out in conference, and I urge the
Congress to move forward as rapidly as
possible.
SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT
Finally, we must take new steps to pro-
tect the purity of our drinking water. The
Federal Government's role in this process,
however, should not be that of direct
regulation but rather that of stimulating
State and local authorities to ensure that
national standards are met. I have asked
that the primary monitoring and enforce-
ment responsibilities for such standards be
left with the States and localities.
This legislation has passed the Senate
and awaits action in the House. While I
urge prompt approval of this important
new authority for the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, I caution the Congress
not to impinge on State and local powers
and not to shift the responsibility for
financing this program to the Federal
Government and away from the users,
where it belongs.
HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS
our
It is an old adage that people are ou
most precious resource, but our legislative
progress so far this year scarcely reflects
that belief. Only a handful of bills has
been passed in this important field. There
are many other human resource measures
proposed by the Administration and now
pending before the Congress which de-
serve prompt consideration.
EDUCATION
As the Congress resumes its work for the
fall legislative session, some 50 million
young Americans are returning to elemen-
tary and secondary school classrooms all
across the country. There they will pursue
the education which is so important in
broadening their horizons for the future
772
