Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Agreement was signed on February 21,
1973. It has the following main
provisions:
-Affirmation of respect for the Geneva
Accords of 1954 and 1962.
-An immediate in-place ceasefire
supervised by a Joint Military Com-
mission with the assistance of the
current International Control Com-
mission (ICC), composed of India,
Canada, and Poland.
-The formation of a new bipartite
coalition government (the Pro-
visional Government of National
Union) and a consultative political
council within 30 days of the cease-
fire. The two Laotian parties were to
negotiate and agree on the modali-
ties and the exact membership in
these bodies during the interim.
-The withdrawal of all foreign forces
within 60 days after the installation
of the new political bodies.
-The release of all POWs within the
same 60-day period, except for
Americans captured in Laos who
were released within the 60 days pro-
vided for prisoner release under the
Vietnam Agreement.
-The eventual holding of legislative
elections to be organized by laws
adopted by the new Consultative
Council and Provisional Govern-
ment.
-Pending these elections and the for-
mation of a permanent government
of national union, the separate ad-
ministration by the two sides of the
areas under their respective control.
Following signature of the Agreement,
the Royal Laotian Government made a
maximum effort to reach final agree-
ment on the protocols implementing its
political and military provisions. The
government presented concrete proposals
to the Pathet Lao in order to obtain agree-
ments on these matters necessary to form
the Provisional Government within the
specified 30-day period and thus speed
the withdrawal of North Vietnamese and
other foreign forces. However, the Lao-
tian Communists adopted obvious delay-
ing tactics in the implementing talks, in-
cluding keeping their senior negotiator
away from the conference table for weeks
on end. As a result, the 30-day period for
the establishment of a new government
and a Consultative Council passed with-
out agreement.
The same pattern persisted on other
related questions such as the talks con-
cerning a Joint Military Commission and
a revitalized ICC. Meanwhile, in blatant
violation of its international obligations,
North Vietnam has continued its military
activities in Laos and expanded its logis-
tics and base network there, threatening
South Vietnam.
U. S. Support. We have consistently
maintained the supporting role that the
previous Administrations inaugurated. On
the diplomatic plane, as already indicated,
we have continually backed Prime Minis-
ter Souvanna Phouma's efforts to nego-
tiate a peace.
In the face of enemy aggression, and in
light of the threats to South Vietnam, we
have also responded to the Laotian gov-
ernment's request for military and eco-
nomic assistance. By Congressional action,
our total assistance expenditures in Laos
were limited to $375 million in fiscal year
1973. Our economic aid efforts were de-
voted primarily to programs for the care
of refugees and the stabilization of the
heavily burdened Laotian economy. Mil-
31-870 - 75-29
399
