[74] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
misery, generate more violence, commit
more crimes while they are waiting to be
tried for these same activities.
The same study showed that over 25
percent of the federally convicted nar-
cotics violators were not even sentenced to
jail. When permissive judges are more
considerate of the pusher than they are of
his victims, there is little incentive for
heroin pushers to obey the law, and great
incentive for them to violate it. This is an
outrage. It is a danger to every law-
abiding citizen, and I am confident that
the vast majority of Americans will sup-
port immediate passage of the heroin
trafficking legislation I will propose to
the Congress next week.
This legislation will require Federal
judges to consider the danger to the com-
munity before freeing on bail a suspect for
heroin trafficking. That is something they
cannot legally do now. It will require a
minimum sentence of 5 years in prison
for anyone convicted of selling heroin. It
will require a minimum sentence of 10
years to life imprisonment for major traf-
fickers in drugs. And for offenders with a
prior conviction for a drug felony, those
who persist in living off the suffering of
others, it will require life imprisonment
without parole.
This is tough legislation, but we must
settle for nothing less. The time has come
for soft-headed judges and probation offi-
cers to show as much concern for the
rights of innocent victims of crime as they
do for the rights of convicted criminals.
In recent days, there have been propo-
sals to legalize the possession and the use
of marijuana. I oppose the legalization of
the sale, possession, or use of marijuana.
The line against the use of dangerous
drugs is now drawn on this side of mari-
juana. If we move the line to the other
side and accept the use of this drug, how
can we draw the line against other illegal
drugs? Or will we slide into an acceptance
of their use as well?
My Administration has carefully
weighed this matter. We have examined
the statutes. We have taken the lead in
making sanctions against the use of mari-
juana more uniform, more reasonable.
Previously, these sanctions were often un-
realistically harsh. Today, 35 States have
adopted our model statute on drugs, in-
cluding marijuana. I hope others will.
But there must continue to be criminal
sanctions against the possession, sale, or
use of marijuana.
Law enforcement alone will not elimi-
nate drug abuse. We must also have a
strong program to treat and assist the ad-
dict. Two-thirds of my proposed antinar-
cotics budget goes for treatment, rehabil-
itation, prevention, and research. We are
approaching the point where no addict
will be able to say that he commits crimes
because there is no treatment available for
him.
By providing drug offenders with every
possible opportunity to get out of the drug
culture, we need feel no compunction
about applying the most stringent sanc-
tions against those who commit crimes in
order to feed their habits.
The crimes which affect most people
most often are not those under Federal
jurisdiction, but those in which State and
local governments have jurisdiction. But
while the Federal Government does not
have full jurisdiction in the field of crim-
inal law enforcement, it does have a broad,
constitutional responsibility to insure do-
mestic tranquillity. That is why I am
doing everything I can to help strengthen
the capacity of State and local govern-
ments to fight crime.
182
