[13] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
This Administration is firmly committed
to a sustained, broad-based national effort
in science and technology, as I made plain
last year in the first special message on
the subject ever sent by a President to the
Congress. The research and development
capability of the various executive depart-
ments and agencies, civilian as well as de-
fense, has been upgraded. The National
Science Foundation has broadened from
its earlier concentration on basic research
support to take on a significant role in
applied research as well. It has matured in
its ability to play a coordinating and
evaluative role within the Government
and between the public and private
sectors.
I have therefore concluded that it is
timely and appropriate to transfer to the
Director of the National Science Founda-
tion all functions presently vested in the
Office of Science and Technology, and to
abolish that office. Reorganization Plan
No. I would effect these changes.
The multi-disciplinary staff resources
of the Foundation will provide analytic
capabilities for performance of the trans-
ferred functions. In addition, the Direc-
tor of the Foundation will be able to
draw on expertise from all of the Federal
agencies, as well as from outside the Gov-
ernment, for assistance in carrying out his
new responsibilities.
It is also my intention, after the trans-
fer of responsibilities is effected, to ask
Dr. H. Guyford Stever, the current Direc-
tor of the Foundation, to take on the addi-
tional post of Science Adviser. In this
capacity, he would advise and assist the
White House, Office of Management and
Budget, Domestic Council, and other en-
tities within the Executive Office of the
President on matters where scientific and
technological expertise is called for, and
would act as the President's representa-
tive in selected cooperative programs in
international scientific affairs, including
chairing such joint bodies as the U.S.-
U.S.S.R. Joint Commission on Scientific
and Technical Cooperation.
In the case of national security, the
Department of Defense has strong capa-
bilities for assessing weapons needs and
for undertaking new weapons develop-
ment, and the President will continue to
draw primarily on this source for advice
regarding military technology. The Presi-
dent in special situations also may seek
independent studies or assessments con-
cerning military technology from within
or outside the Federal establishment using
the machinery of the National Security
Council for this purpose, as well as the
Science Adviser when appropriate.
In one special area of technology-
space and aeronautics-a coordinating
council has existed within the Executive
Office of the President since 1958. This
body, the National Aeronautics and
Space Council, met a major need during
the evolution of our nation's space pro-
gram. Vice President Agnew has served
with distinction as its chairman for the
past four years. At my request, beginning
in 1969, the Vice President also chaired
a special Space Task Group charged with
developing strategy alternatives for a bal-
anced U.S. space program in the coming
years.
As a result of this work, basic policy
issues in the United States space effort
have been resolved, and the necessary
interagency relationships have been estab-
lished. I have therefore concluded, with
the Vice President's concurrence, that the
Council can be discontinued. Needed
policy coordination can now be achieved
through the resources of the executive de-
22
