Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 20 [235]
tailed response, nor has it been my inten-
tion to address myself to all matters
covered in my May 22 statement. With
the Senate hearings and the grand jury
investigations still proceeding, with much
of the testimony in conflict, it would be
neither possible to provide nor appro-
priate to attempt a definitive account of
all that took place. Neither do I believe
I could enter upon an endless course of
explaining and rebutting a complex of
point-by-point claims and charges aris-
ing out of that conflicting testimony which
may engage committees and courts for
months or years to come, and still be able
to carry out my duties as President. While
the judicial and legislative branches re-
solve these matters, I will continue to
discharge to the best of my ability my
constitutional responsibilities as President
of the United States.
235 Remarks at the Veterans of Foreign Wars National
Convention, New Orleans, Louisiana. August 20, 1973
Commander Carr and Mrs. Reid, all of
the very distinguished guests here on the
platform, the Governor of the State, and
the mayor of this city, the Members of
the House and Senate who are here-some
from Louisiana and some from all over
the Nation-all the former commanders
of this organization, the vice command-
ers who automatically become com-
manders, all of you:
I do want you to know that it is a very
great privilege for me to speak again be-
fore a convention, or an encampment, I
should say, of the Veterans of Foreign
Wars.
In that connection, I was thinking a
moment ago that, of the public figures
in America today, I have probably spoken
before more meetings of this type of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, your national
conventions, than anybody in public life,
and I am proud to have done so.
Now, on this card, and on this one
which has three parts to it, they have
given me the names of the people I am
supposed to mention who are on the plat-
form, but they have all been introduced,
so I am going to mention them in a group.
And by mentioning them in a group, I can
also bring all of you in with them, those
of you who are members of our fine or-
ganization, my comrades, and those who
are members of the women's auxiliary.
By what I say now, you will understand
why there was a relationship between the
members of this organization and those
who are the Members of the House and
Senate who are here on the platform.
I shall not refer to all of them. I am
just looking down this list from Louisiana,
for example, and I see, of course, Senator
Russell Long, a very powerful Senator,
one of the most brilliant men in the
United States Senate, the chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee.
In fact, if you go down the list of Sena-
tors and Congressmen from Louisiana
that are here today, you probably have no
State in the Union that has more power-
ful representation and more effective rep-
resentation than the State of Louisiana.
Going to the Congressional side, I see
the name Edward Hébert. Eddie Hébert
and I served in the House of Representa-
31-870 O 75-48
703
