[247] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States assessment was endorsed.
Nevertheless, the underlying financial
problems were not solved and further ad-
ministrative and procedural reforms are
needed in the United Nations.
This report shows that, despite political
and administrative shortcomings, multi-
lateral agencies connected with the
United Nations offered practical re-
sponses to worldwide problems of pressing
concern to the American people. Given
the fast pace of political, social, and tech-
nological change in recent years, it is not
surprising that the record of accomplish-
ments was uneven and there were set-
backs as well as successes.
During 1972 developments at the
United Nations were affected by certain
long-term trends which both hold promise
and pose problems for effective United
Nations action.
The loosening of old antagonisms, the
entry of the People's Republic of China
into the mainstream of United Nations
work, and the growing importance of
powers such as Japan could in the long
run enable a near-universal United Na-
tions to become a more effective instru-
ment for dealing with serious world polit-
ical and security problems.
However, we also have to recognize
that the continuing tendency to use the
United Nations for propaganda advan-
tage and to pursue political rivalries
makes accommodation more difficult. For
the near term, where the interests of its
strongest members are engaged, the orga-
nization can deal only in a limited way
with highly contentious political issues.
-The emergence in United Nations
bodies and conferences of an active ma-
jority led by a number of the developing
nations continued to make for some dis-
tortions in determining the areas of
greatest United Nations attention. While
we fully recognize the inherent right of
all member nations to be heard, the voting
weight of this majority, with its some-
times narrowly defined preoccupations,
has tended to create imbalance and to
place strains on the effective functioning
of the organization.
This report reflects the growing cohe-
sion which has taken place among the
third world countries, notably with respect
to colonial issues and to demands that
rules of international trade and aid be
altered in their favor. We were particu-
larly concerned when, under the pressure
of bloc voting, the organization adopted
one-sided resolutions on certain political
issues or failed to take concrete action on
such important matters as international
terrorism. To call this trend disturbing is
not to depreciate the value to the United
States of multilateral institutions in which
all nations can be heard on matters that
affect their security and welfare, concili-
ation can be pursued, and vital public
services can be provided for the interna-
tional community.
We attempted to adjust our policy dur-
ing 1972 to take account of these changes.
It became increasingly clear that for the
present the most productive possibilities
for United Nations action are on global
problems of an economic, social, and tech-
nological nature. United Nations system
expenditures reflected this concentration,
with some 95 percent of the resources in
1972 going for programs designed to trans-
fer techniques and skills to less developed
nations, set standards for international be-
havior, and provide public services of
benefit to all nations.
The following developments during the
year were especially noteworthy :
We were gratified by the General As-
744
