Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
populous and most powerful countries in
the world. The following considerations
prompted us and served as policy guide-
lines:
-We could not build toward a global
structure of peace while excluding
800 million people. A more stable in-
ternational system had to reflect the
massive weight and potential of
China.
-Changes in the world generally, and
in the Communist world particularly,
called for a broader American ap-
proach. Having recovered from the
ravages of World War II, our allies
began asserting their autonomy. In-
dependent voices began to be heard
in the once solid Socialist community.
The international environment had
become multipolar; it was time our
diplomacy did too.
-The United States has had a tradi-
tional interest in a peaceful, inde-
pendent, and self-reliant China. This
remained a more positive prospect
than a China that felt isolated or
threatened.
-There were many potential areas
where bilateral contact could enrich
the lives of our two peoples.
-There did not seem to be major
clashes of national interest between
our two countries over the longer
term. Our policies could be less rigid
if we and the Chinese did not treat
each other as permanent adversaries.
-A new approach was not to be di-
rected against other countries. In-
deed it could serve to broaden the
horizons of international dialogue
and accommodation.
-We believed that the People's Re-
public of China might be receptive
to our approach.
So the times called for a fresh approach
to China. But formidable obstacles, tech-
nical as well as political, lay in the way. In
last year's Report I described the prob-
lems and the policies we employed to
overcome them. Against a twenty-year
backdrop of non-communication and
sterile mutual recrimination, our task was
twofold: to convey privately our views to
the Chinese leadership and to indicate
publicly the direction of our policy.
We had to find discreet and reliable
means to transmit our views to Peking and
get authoritative Chinese responses. We
began this effort during the first weeks of
my Administration. Up until the summer
of 1971, we engaged in a delicate diplo-
matic minuet during which mutual con-
fidence gradually increased and mutual
intentions became more concrete.
Meanwhile we carefully orchestrated a
succession of unilateral initiatives and
positive statements. From mid-1969 on-
wards, we took a series of steps to relax
trade and travel restrictions. They did
not require a response from the Chinese;
they were therefore neither dependent on
Chinese reciprocity nor vulnerable to Chi-
nese rejection. Individually these were
not major steps, but cumulatively they
etched the pattern more and more clearly.
At the same time in official speeches and
statements, such as my annual foreign
policy reports, we mapped in increasingly
sharp relief the road we were taking.
During the spring of 1971 the tempo
accelerated in public and in private, with
greater responsiveness from the Chinese.
Peking's invitation to an American table
tennis team to visit China in April was
one among many public signals. Privately
during that period we agreed that Dr.
Kissinger should visit Peking from July 9
to July 11.
359
