Richard Nixon, 1973
May 31 [169]
peace upon the firm foundations they
fought so nobly to build.
NOTE: The President recorded the message for
use on radio. The text was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
169 Toasts of the President, President Kristján Eldjárn
of Iceland, and President Georges Pompidou of France
at a Dinner in Reykjavik.
Mr. President and Mrs. Eldjárn, President
Pompidou, Mr. Prime Minister,¹ and all
of our distinguished guests:
This is a very historic moment for me,
both personally and in my official capac-
ity, because I am the first American Presi-
dent ever to visit this country.
I want to thank you, Mr. President, and
your wife for the gracious hospitality that
you have extended to us on this occasion
and also for all of our visit.
I would remind you that it was several
years ago in 1956 that as Vice President,
along with Mr. Rogers, we visited your
country. It was in the dead of winter at
Christmastime. The snow was 12 feet
high. It was the coldest winter, I think,
in history. And now we are here on one
of the most glorious days at the begin-
ning of summer.
But whatever the differences in the
weather, whether it be in the cold of
winter or in the beautiful warmth of sum-
mer, there is one thing that does not
change, and that is the warmth of an Ice-
landic welcome. We thank you for that.
We have seen it on every occasion, and
we have seen it tonight.
As we come to your capital, we are
aware, of course, of the proud tradition
of this country and of its modern signifi-
¹ Olafur Jóhannesson was Prime Minister of
Iceland.
May 31, 1973
cance as well. We realize that this house
in which we have dinner tonight is older
than the White House, which for America
is a very old house.
We also know that you are a member of
our Atlantic community, and in a sense,
you are in the center of it. That is why
it was a very appropriate place for Presi-
dent Pompidou and me to meet. Each of
us came halfway, but I should point out
to President Pompidou, I came a little
more than halfway, because his trip was
only 4 hours and mine was 52. Now,
whether I came more than halfway in
our discussions will remain to be seen.
Also, I would like to say on this occa-
sion that I have appreciated the opportu-
nity to again have very serious and
constructive talks with President Pompi-
dou. In these meetings, and in others we
have had, we have carried on a continuing
and comprehensive European-American
dialog.
Now, that dialog is designed to strength-
en our relationship, to reinvigorate it.
France, as everybody knows, is Amer-
ica's oldest ally, and it is an ally with
whom we have stood side-by-side on many
occasions. Lafayette, in the very early
days of our country, once told George
Washington that Franco-American
friendship would live forever. But we
know that even the oldest and staunchest
alliance, even the oldest and staunchest
569
