[197] July 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Constitutional rights and powers of his
Office is an obligation that runs directly
to the people of this country.
The White House staff will continue to
cooperate fully with the Committee in
furnishing information relevant to its in-
vestigation except in those instances where
I determine that meeting the Committee's
demands would violate my Constitutional
responsibility to defend the office of the
Presidency against encroachment by other
Branches.
At an appropriate time during your
hearings, I intend to address publicly the
subjects you are considering. In the mean-
time, in the context of Senate Resolution
60, I consider it my Constitutional re-
sponsibility to decline to appear person-
ally under any circumstances before your
Committee or to grant access to Presi-
dential files.
I respect the responsibilities placed
upon you and your colleagues by Senate
Resolution 60. I believe you and your
Committee colleagues equally respect the
responsibility placed upon me to protect
the rights and powers of the Presidency
under the Constitution.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, Select
Committee on Presidential Campaign Activi-
ties, United States Senate, Washington, D.C.]
[Enclosure]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated July 6,
1973. was released July 7 at San Clemente,
Calif.
The text of President Truman's letter, re-
leased with the President's letter, read as
follows:
Dear Sir:
November 12, 1953
I have your subpoena dated November 9,
1953, directing my appearance before your
committee on Friday, November 13, in Wash-
ington. The subpoena does not state the matters
upon which you seek my testimony, but I as-
sume from the press stories that you seek to ex-
amine me with respect to matters which oc-
curred during my tenure of the Presidency of
the United States.
In spite of my personal willingness to coop-
erate with your committee. I feel constrained
by my duty to the people of the United States
to decline to comply with the subpoena.
In doing so, I am carrying out the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States; and
am following a long line of precedents, com-
mencing with George Washington himself in
1796. Since his day, Presidents Jefferson, Mon-
roe, Jackson, Tyler, Polk, Fillmore, Buchanan,
Lincoln, Grant, Hayes, Cleveland, Theodore
Roosevelt, Coolidge, Hoover and Franklin D.
Roosevelt have declined to respond to sub-
poenas or demands for information of various
kinds by Congress.
The underlying reason for this clearly estab-
lished and universally recognized constitutional
doctrine has been succinctly set forth by
Charles Warren, one of our leading constitu-
tional authorities, as follows:
"In this long series of contests by the Execu
tive to maintain his constitutional integrity, one
sees a legitimate conclusion from our theory of
government. Under our Constitution,
each branch of the Government is designed to
be a coordinate representative of the will of the
people. Defense by the Executive of his
constitutional powers becomes in very truth,
therefore, defense of popular rights defense of
power which the people granted to him.
"It was in that sense that President Cleveland
spoke of his duty to the people not to relinquish
any of the powers of his great office. It was in
that sense that President Buchanan stated the
people have rights and prerogatives in the ex-
ecution of his office by the President which
every President is under a duty to see 'shall
never be violated in his person' but 'passed to
his successors unimpaired by the adoption of a
dangerous precedent.' In maintaining his rights
against a trespassing Congress, the President de-
fends not himself, but popular government; he
represents not himself but the people."
President Jackson repelled an attempt by the
Congress to break down the separation of
powers in these words:
638
