[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
circumstances could funds provided un-
der the Better Communities Act be used
for purposes that would violate the civil
rights of any person.
A DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
One of the most serious deficiencies in
the effort of the Federal Government to
assist in community development has been
the fragmentation and scattering of Fed-
eral programs among a variety of depart-
ments and agencies. All too often State or
local officials seeking help for a particular
project must shuttle back and forth from
one Federal office to another, wasting pre-
cious time and resources in a bureaucratic
wild goose chase.
In order to coordinate our commu-
nity development activities more effec-
tively, I proposed nearly two years ago
that we create a Department of Com-
munity Development which would pull
under one roof various programs now in
the Departments of Housing and Urban
Development, Transportation, Agricul-
ture, and other agencies.
After extensive hearings on this pro-
posal, the Committee on Government Op-
erations of the House of Representatives
reached this conclusion:
"The Department of Community De-
velopment will be a constructive center
in the Federal Government for assistance
to communities, large and small. It will
facilitate rational planning, orderly
growth, and the effective employment of
resources to build viable communities
throughout the United States. It will help
to strengthen the physical and institutional
bases for cooperative action by Federal,
State and local governments."
This Administration fully agrees, of
course, and will continue to work with the
Congress for the prompt creation of a De-
partment of Community Development.
In the interim, I recently appointed a
Presidential Counsellor on Community
Development who will coordinate com-
munity development programs and poli-
cies in the executive branch. But only
when the Congress approves the basic de-
partmental reorganization proposed by the
Administration can our efforts to elimi-
nate waste, confusion and duplication,
and to promote community betterment
more efficiently, be fully effective.
THE RESPONSIVE GOVERNMENTS ACT
For nearly 20 years, the Federal Gov-
ernment has provided assistance to State
and local governments in order to
strengthen their planning and manage-
ment capabilities.
This aid, provided under the Compre-
hensive Planning Assistance Program, has
always been helpful, but the program itself
has several major flaws. It has tended, for
instance, to stress one aspect of public
administration-planning-without ade-
quately recognizing other essential
features such as budgeting, management,
personnel administration, and informa-
tion-gathering. Planning has often been
irrelevant to the problems and the actual
decisions. State and local governments
have also found it difficult to coordinate
their planning because of the fragmented
way in which funds have been sent from
Washington.
This Administration proposed new
planning and management legislation to
the 92nd Congress, but it was not ap-
proved. In the meantime, we took what
steps we could to improve the existing
program. Some progress has been made,
174
