[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
mulation created a momentum toward
capabilities that threatened strategic
equilibrium.
Each of us had the power singlehand-
edly to destroy most of mankind. Para-
doxically, this very fact, and the global
interests of both sides, created a certain
common outlook, a kind of interdepend-
ence for survival. Although we competed,
our conflict did not admit of resolution by
victory in the classical sense. We seemed
compelled to coexist. We had an ines-
capable joint obligation to build a struc-
ture for peace. Recognition of this reality
has been the keystone of United States
policy since 1969.
Obviously, no agreement could be
reached involving weapons that guaran-
teed national survival if both sides did
not believe their interests were served
despite the risks. No decision of this mag-
nitude could have been taken unless it
was part of a broader commitment to
place relations on a new foundation of
restraint, cooperation, and steadily evolv-
ing confidence. Even agreements of such
overriding importance cannot stand
alone, vulnerable to the next crisis. Their
tremendous historical and political signifi-
cance is guaranteed, in part, by the fact
that they are woven into the fabric of an
emerging new relationship that makes
crises less likely.
There is reason to hope that these ac-
cords represent a major break in the pat-
tern of suspicion, hostility, and confronta-
tion that has dominated U.S.-Soviet
relations for a generation.
Principles of U.S.-Soviet Relations. The
fourth area of major progress at the sum-
mit was the agreement on twelve Basic
Principles signed on May 29, 1972. This
far-reaching step placed all our other
efforts on a broader foundation. A new
relationship would require new attitudes
and aspirations. It was appropriate that
this change be reflected in a formal state-
ment. These principles codify goals that
the United States had long advocated, as
I did for example, in my address to the
United Nations in October 1970. The
main provisions state that both sides will:
-do their utmost to avoid military con-
frontations and to prevent the out-
break of nuclear war;
—always exercise restraint in their mu-
tual relations and will be prepared to
negotiate and settle differences by
peaceful means. Discussions and
negotiations on outstanding issues
will be conducted in a spirit of reci-
procity, mutual accommodation, and
mutual benefit;
-recognize that efforts to obtain
unilateral advantage at the expense
of the other, directly or indirectly,
are inconsistent with these objectives;
make no claim for themselves, and
not recognize the claims of anyone
else, to any special rights or advan-
tages in world affairs.
These are specific obligations. They
meet some of our fundamental concerns
of the postwar period. They are the ele-
ments that made it possible to summarize
one general principle governing Soviet-
American relations:
"They will proceed from the common
determination that in the nuclear age
there is no alternative to conducting their
mutual relations on the basis of peaceful
coexistence. Differences in ideology and
in the social systems of the United States
and the Soviet Union are not obstacles to
the bilateral development of normal rela-
tions based on the principles of sover-
374
