Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
is adequate. When additional funds are
found to be essential, I shall do every-
thing I can to see that they are provided.
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
The energy challenge confronts every
nation. Where there is such a community
of interest, there is both a cause and a
basis for cooperative action.
Today, the United States is involved
in a number of cooperative, international
efforts. We have joined with the other 22
member-nations of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development
to produce a comprehensive report on
long-term problems and to develop an
agreement for sharing oil in times of acute
shortages. The European Economic Com-
munity has already discussed the need for
cooperative efforts and is preparing rec-
ommendations for a Community energy
policy. We have expressed a desire to
work together with them in this effort.
We have also agreed with the Soviet
Union to pursue joint research in mag-
netohydrodynamics (MHD), a highly
efficient process for generating electricity,
and to exchange information on fusion,
fission, the generation of electricity, trans-
mission and pollution control technology.
These efforts should be a model for joint
research efforts with other countries. Ad-
ditionally, American companies are look-
ing into the possibility of joint projects
with the Soviet Union to develop natural
resources for the benefit of both nations.
I have also instructed the Department
of State, in coordination with the Atomic
Energy Commission, other appropriate
Government agencies, and the Congress
to move rapidly in developing a program
of international cooperation in research
and development on new forms of energy
and in developing international mecha-
nisms for dealing with energy questions in
times of critical shortages.
I believe the energy challenge provides
an important opportunity for nations to
pursue vital objectives through peaceful
cooperation. No chance should be lost to
strengthen the structure of peace we are
seeking to build in the world, and few is-
sues provide us with as good an oppor-
tunity to demonstrate that there is more
to be gained in pursuing our national in-
terests through mutual cooperation than
through destructive competition or dan-
gerous confrontation.
FEDERAL ENERGY ORGANIZATION
If we are to meet the energy challenge,
the current fragmented organization of
energy-related activities in the executive
branch of the Government must be over-
hauled.
In 1971, I proposed legislation to con-
solidate Federal energy-related activities
within a new Department of Natural Re-
sources. The 92nd Congress did not act
on this proposal. In the interim I have
created a new post of Counsellor to the
President on Natural Resources to assist
in the policy coordination in the natural
resources field.
Today I am taking executive action
specifically to improve the Federal or-
ganization of energy activities.
I have directed the Secretary of the In-
terior to strengthen his Department's or-
ganization of energy activities in several
ways.
-The responsibilities of the new As-
sistant Secretary for Energy and Minerals
will be expanded to incorporate all de-
partmental energy activities;
-The Department is to develop a
317
