Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
million over an 18-month period to assist
in this process. While we are always open
to suggestions for improvement in our
proposal, I feel that some of the alterna-
tives which have been aired in the Con-
gress-especially those which would
merely postpone action or would saddle
the Federal Government with a heavy
financial burden, or could lead to quasi-
nationalization--are beyond the pale of
acceptability. Present bankruptcy pro-
ceedings and the possibility of liquidation
make it imperative that the Congress act
promptly to meet the emerging crisis.
I will soon submit to the Congress my
Transportation Improvement Act of 1973.
This legislation is designed to address
some of the outmoded and excessively re-
strictive regulatory procedures which af-
fect the entire railroad industry. The steps
recommended are critical to creating a
healthy system of railroads for our Na-
tion-a matter of increased urgency as we
face environmental and energy problems.
I urge prompt Congressional action on
this important legislation.
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND RELIEF
This Administration has had ample
opportunity to test our Federal programs
for dealing with natural disasters. Since
taking office in 1969, I have had to declare
147 major disasters in 42 States and 3
Territories. The year 1972-punctuated
by Hurricane Agnes-proved to be a
record-setting year in this respect: there
were 48 major disasters, accounting in
part for the food shortages we have had
in 1973.
As a result of these experiences, I am
convinced that we can do a better job in
preparing for disasters and in providing
assistance to those who are hardest hit. I
have proposed two major pieces of legis-
lation designed to insure that 1973 will
mark a turning point in the story of our
disaster programs.
The first of these measures is the pro-
posed Disaster Preparedness and Assist-
ance Act. This bill is based upon a major
recent study of all disaster relief activities
of the Federal Government. It is designed
to provide badly needed emphasis upon
preventive measures and to encourage the
use of insurance before disasters strike. It
would increase the role of State and local
officials in determining how Federal
money would be spent in assisting disaster-
stricken communities-and it would pro-
vide for automatic release of Federal funds
in the case of major disasters. Red tape,
bureaucratic delays, and Federal inter-
ference would be substantially reduced,
while Federal assistance would be pro-
vided more rapidly. The bill also includes
generous grant features for those disaster
victims unable to repay Government loans
while continuing grants to help commu-
nities restore their public facilities.
To date, this legislation, so vital to our
efforts to mitigate disaster damage, has
received only one perfunctory hearing in
the Congress. It deserves more serious
consideration.
The second major Administration ini-
tiative in this area is the proposed Flood
Disaster Protection Act. Flood insurance
is a key part of any disaster assistance pro-
gram. This bill would expand the flood
insurance program by increasing insur-
ance coverage from $6 to $10 billion. It
would also require participation in the
flood insurance program by communities
that are known to be flood prone, so that
residents of these communities would
779
