[20] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
understood, where public officials are
most accessible and, therefore, most
accountable.
And finally, some of the money we
save will be shifted to other Federal pro-
grams where it can do the most good
with least waste for the most people.
I am proposing, for example, to double
spending for major pollution control pro-
grams. I am asking for an 8 percent in-
crease to fight crime and drug abuse, for a
20 percent increase in research to meet the
energy crisis, for a 21 percent increase to
fight cancer and heart disease.
In fact, overall spending for human re-
source programs will be increased to a
level almost twice what it was when I first
came to office. Instead of spending one-
third of our budget on human resources
and nearly half of our budget on de-
fense as we were doing in 1969-we
have exactly reversed those priorities.
We can be thankful that, with the war
in Vietnam now ended, this is a true
peacetime budget in every sense of the
word.
In the days and weeks ahead, I shall be
spelling out my recommendations in
much greater detail. My budget will go
to the Congress tomorrow; my Economic
Report on Wednesday. And instead of
delivering just one State of the Union Ad-
dress, covering a laundry list of programs,
I shall present my State of the Union re-
port this year in a series of detailed mes-
sages on specific subjects. Together, these
21
statements will chart a new course for
America-a course that will bring more
progress by putting more responsibility
and money in more places.
In holding down spending, what is at
stake is not just a big, impersonal Federal
budget. What is at stake is your job, your
taxes, the prices you pay, and whether the
money you earn by your work is spent by
you for what you want or by government
for what someone else wants.
It is important that the struggle to hold
the line against bigger government not
become a contest which pits one branch of
government against another, but one
which joins the President and the Con-
gress in meeting a common challenge. And
those in the Congress who enlist in this
struggle need your support.
Every Member of the Congress gets
enormous pressure from special interests
to spend your money for what they want.
And so I ask you to back up those Con-
gressmen and those Senators, whether
Democrats or Republicans, who have the
courage to vote against higher spending.
They hear from the special interests; let
them hear from you.
It is time to get big government off
your back and out of your pocket. I ask
your support to hold government spend-
ing down, so that we can keep your taxes
and your prices from going up.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded
for broadcast at 6 pm. on nationwide radio.
Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal Year
1974. January 29, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
The 1974 budget fulfills my pledge to
hold down Federal spending so that there
will be no need for a tax increase.
This is a budget that will continue to
move the Nation's economy toward a goal
32
