Richard Nixon, 1973
July 7 [197]
executive privilege, "as to any testimony
concerning possible criminal conduct or
discussions of possible criminal conduct,
in the matters presently under investiga-
tion," no longer be invoked for present or
former members of the White House staff.
In the case of my former Counsel, I
waived in addition the attorney-client
privilege.
These acts of cooperation with the
Committee have been genuine, extensive
and, in the history of such matters,
extraordinary.
The pending requests, however, would
move us from proper Presidential coopera-
tion with a Senate Committee to jeopard-
izing the fundamental Constitutional
role of the Presidency.
This I must and shall resist.
No President could function if the pri-
vate papers of his office, prepared by his
personal staff, were open to public
scrutiny. Formulation of sound public
policy requires that the President and his
personal staff be able to communicate
among themselves in complete candor,
and that their tentative judgments, their
exploration of alternatives, and their
frank comments on issues and personalities
at home and abroad remain confidential.
I recognize that in your investigation as
in others of previous years, arguments can
be and have been made for the identifica-
tion and perusal by the President or his
Counsel of selected documents for possible
release to the Committees or their staffs.
But such a course, I have concluded,
would inevitably result in the attrition,
and the eventual destruction, of the in-
dispensable principle of confidentiality of
Presidential papers.
The question of testimony by members
of the White House staff presents a diffi-
cult but different problem. While notes
and papers often involve a wide-ranging
variety and intermingling of confidential
matters, testimony can, at least, be limited
to matters within the scope of the investi-
gation. For this reason, and because of the
special nature of this particular investi-
gation, I have agreed to permit the un-
restricted testimony of present and former
White House staff members before your
Committee.
The question of my own testimony,
however, is another matter. I have con-
cluded that if I were to testify before the
Committee irreparable damage would be
done to the Constitutional principle of
separation of powers. My position in this
regard is supported by ample precedents
with which you are familiar and which
need not be recited here. It is appropriate,
however, to refer to one particular occa-
sion on which this issue was raised.
In 1953 a Committee of the House of
Representatives sought to
sought to subpoena
former President Truman to inquire about
matters of which he had personal knowl-
edge while he had served as President. As
you may recall, President Truman
declined to comply with the subpoena on
the ground that the separation of powers
forbade his appearance. This position was
not challenged by the Congress.
It is difficult to improve upon President
Truman's discussion of this matter. There-
fore, I request that his letter, which is en-
closed for the Committee's convenience,
be made part of the Committee's record.
The Constitutional doctrine of separa-
tion of powers is fundamental to our struc-
ture of government. In my view, as in the
view of previous Presidents, its preserva-
tion is vital. In this respect, the duty of
every President to protect and defend the
637
