[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Our NATO force in Europe consists
of 43 Army Divisions, 21 Air Force
attack and fighter squadrons, and
naval units in the North Atlantic.
-In the Mediterranean we maintain
two attack carrier task forces and a
Marine amphibious group which
help protect NATO's southern flank
as well as meet non-NATO chal-
lenges in this volatile area.
-United States forces in Asia consist
of those still supporting operations in
Indochina and normal forward de-
ployments not directly related to
Vietnam needs. The basic forces in-
clude: one Army division stationed in
Korea and two-thirds of a Marine
division located in Okinawa; ten Air
Force and five Marine fighter/attack
squadrons distributed in Korea,
Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Okinawa,
and the Philippines; and three attack
carrier forces and two Marine amphi-
bious groups operating in the West-
ern Pacific.
Although NATO deployments have been
relatively constant in recent years, Asian
force levels are now substantially below
those maintained prior to the Vietnam
War.
Given our broad requirements, the un-
certainty of the current international sit-
uation, and the post-Vietnam contraction
of our armed forces, it would be unwise to
make further unilateral cuts in deploy-
ments or significant reductions in overall
force levels in the foreseeable future. To
do so would raise questions about the ade-
quacy of our force posture to safeguard
our interests. The limitations of our cur-
rent force levels were illustrated by the
strain placed on our forces as a whole by
our effort last year to help counter the in-
vasion of South Vietnam by a small nation
with practically no navy or air force.
Obviously, American forces alone can-
not balance the strong capabilities of po-
tential adversaries. For this reason our
planning under the Nixon Doctrine has
emphasized the strengthening of mutual
defense by bolstering allied capabilities.
In NATO, it is often forgotten that our
allies provide nearly 90 percent of ground
forces and the majority of alliance air and
naval craft. American ground forces are
concentrated in Germany where they con-
stitute over one-fourth of the forces in this
vital area. Along with our allies we are
taking additional measures to strengthen
NATO forces. Expenditures by individual
members for force modernization have in-
creased for the third consecutive year, and
under the billion dollar five-year Euro-
pean Defense Improvement Program,
NATO communications, anti-armor and
air defense capabilities continue to im-
prove. United States capabilities are also
being improved, and our ground forces are
being strengthened by selectively transfer-
ring men from support to combat units.
Programs in Asia too have achieved re-
markable success in strengthening allied
capabilities. In Southeast Asia, progress
in Vietnamization was demonstrated by
the effective Vietnamese defense on the
ground against all-out invasion. In North-
east Asia, South Korean forces are growing
in effectiveness as a result of our joint pro-
gram for modernization, and the Korean
economy is now able to support more of
the recurring costs of maintaining these
forces without hampering normal eco-
nomic growth.
Our Asian allies are also becoming more
self-sufficient in dealing with subversion
and guerrilla warfare, which remain a
486
