Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 19 [48]
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. at the
naval air station, where he visited the U.S.S.
Albany, a guided missile cruiser on which his
son-in-law, Lt. (jg.) Dwight David Eisenhower
II, USN, was serving.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Capt. Jeremiah A. Denton, Jr., USN, of Nor-
folk, Va.
47 Remarks Following a Meeting With the Executive
Council of the AFL-CIO, Bal Harbour, Florida.
February 19, 1973
IN THE course of this meeting, I covered
a number of subjects of mutual interest,
but as far as a briefing is concerned, I
will leave that to President Meany. I came
here as the guest of the AFL-CIO, and
as I understand, he will be meeting the
press at 12 o'clock.
I will only say that I was very apprecia-
tive of the reception that we had, and I
also want to say on one point, if I could,
that Mr. Meany-I think I could cover
this—particularly in addition to discussing
various other economic issues and the like,
mentioned the fact that the support that
most of the leaders of organized labor
gave to our program of national defense
and to achieving a peace with honor in
Vietnam was indispensable in achieving
that peace which we are now seeing in
such vivid terms as our POW's return. I
expressed appreciation to the leaders of
organized labor for that support.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. at
the Americana Hotel.
48 Informal Remarks at the Jackie Gleason Inverrary
Classic, Lauderhill, Florida. February 19, 1973
MR. GLEASON. Ladies and gentlemen,
of course this is an extraordinary honor
which we are very appreciative of, and
especially because of the weather. I am
going to make this very, very brief be-
cause the President is standing here in
just a jacket, and it is raining.
We have introduced him to the celebri-
ties that we have here. He was very
gracious to speak to each one of them at
length, and now I would like him to say
a few words to you people.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Jackie, I am delighted to be here at the
opening of this tournament. I understand
you don't start playing until Thursday,
except for the celebrities. Do you call that
playing?
MR. GLEASON. Only when the girls are
here.
THE PRESIDENT. Am I in the right
place? I thought this was a golf tourna-
ment.
I want to say just a few words, if I
could, about my favorite charity, and in
mentioning my favorite charity I don't
mean there aren't many others that are
just as worthwhile. But before I was
elected in 1968, I was the chairman of the
board of the Boys' Clubs of America. It
is a wonderful organization, one million
boys in 1,000 clubs all across this country.
105
