Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
ordinate UN programs in this field and to
establish a UN Environmental Fund,
which I had proposed in February 1972,
with an initial goal of $100 million for
the first five years to finance environ-
mental activities.
At the same time, we recognize the
concerns of developing countries that steps
to preserve the environment must en-
hance, not hinder, the development proc-
ess. During the Stockholm meeting we
made clear that in carrying out environ-
mental programs we will take all practical
steps to prevent reduced access to our mar-
kets; we will not use environmental con-
cerns as a pretext for discriminatory trade
policies.
The success of the Stockholm Confer-
ence offers considerable promise for more
effective international cooperation on the
environment. It is only a first step, how-
ever. Now we must work to translate the
Conference recommendations into actions.
NATO's Committee on the Challenges
of Modern Society (CCMS) also made
progress in 1972. Committee projects on
air and water pollution are providing val-
uable information and recommendations
to member countries in the Atlantic Al-
liance, and a project in the field of urban
transportation is now being developed. An
inland water project is yielding important
guidelines for dealing with the pollution
of rivers that cross jurisdictional bound-
aries, and has already led to the forma-
tion of a U.S.-Canadian Joint Committee
on Water Quality for the St. John's River
Basin on our common border. As part of
a CCMS pilot study, the United States
last November signed an agreement with
the principal European auto manufactur-
ing nations to exchange information on
technology for low pollution power
systems.
At its May 1972 ministerial meeting,
the Organization for Economic Cooper-
ation and Development (OECD) adopted
guidelines designed to avoid possible trade
distortions arising from differences in the
environmental policies of member coun-
tries. The United States is now working
with other OECD members to develop
procedures for effective implementation
of these guidelines, which should permit
countries to strengthen their environ-
mental protection programs without up-
setting international trade relationships.
Marine mammals, including whales,
dolphins, seals, and polar bears, are in-
creasingly endangered by man's on-
slaughts. Whales are probably in the
greatest jeopardy, with some species on
the edge of extinction. The United States
advocated a ten-year moratorium on all
whaling, both to permit presently depleted
stocks to recover and to generate needed
scientific data on whales. The UN Con-
ference on the Human Environment en-
dorsed this proposal, calling upon the
International Whaling Commission to
adopt it. While the Commission rejected
the proposed moratorium at its meeting
in June 1972, it did agree to significant re-
ductions in the 1973 quotas for catches
of certain whales, and it extended the
current ban on hunting other varieties.
The United States joined with 91 other
nations in adopting a Convention on the
Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter at
a conference in London last November.
The parties to the convention agreed to
institute national systems for regulating
ocean dumping similar to the compre-
hensive program we now have in the
United States.
The Intergovernmental Maritime Con-
sultative Organization (IMCO) has con-
515
