[41] Feb. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion was necessary because) the monetary
system can't carry the full load.
THE PRESIDENT. In talking to Chair-
men Mills and Long, without commit-
ting them, we found a generally positive
attitude toward this new approach to
trade legislation.
It was Congressional consultations at its
best.... (They were) highly responsible
in that there had been no leaks.... We are
referring to the fact that the delicate sub-
ject could be discussed without any leaks.
People want us to be in a position to do
something.
NOTE: The President met with Secretary
Shultz and John D Ehrlichman, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs, at 11 am
in the Oval Office at the White House.
This text is a portion of their remarks based
upon the notes of reporters present during part
of the meeting.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Representative Wilbur D. Mills, chairman of
the House Committee on Ways and Means, and
Senator Russell B. Long, chairman of the Sen-
ate Committee on Finance
42 Statement About Display of the Flag in Honor
of Returning Prisoners of War.
TODAY begins the final week of national
mourning for President Lyndon Johnson.
This morning in a telephone conversation
with Mrs. Johnson, we both remarked
how much her husband would have liked
to share in the moments of joy as our first
prisoners of war return from Indochina.
Mrs. Johnson and I agreed that for the
American flag to be flying high on the day
that the first prisoners return to American
soil would be the finest possible tribute
both to her husband's memory and to the
heroism of the prisoners and their fami-
lies as well as to the missing men, the
men who gave their lives, and all who
helped to win peace with honor in
Vietnam.
February 13, 1973
I am therefore signing a proclamation
[4188] this afternoon ordering the flag of
the United States returned to full staff on
the morning of the day they arrive in
America.
In an earlier war, another American
prisoner-Francis Scott Key-asked that
stirring question whether the star-
spangled banner yet waved "o'er the land
of the free and the home of the brave."
As our prisoners come home to America,
let our answer be the same today as it was
then.
NOTE: The statement was read by Press Sec-
retary Ronald L. Ziegler during an afternoon
news briefing at the White House.
43 Radio Address About the
on Natural Resources and the Environment.
February 14, 1973
State of the Union Message
Good afternoon:
Every year since George Washington's
time, the President of the United States
has sent a message to the Congress about
the State of our American Union and the
measures which he felt the legislative and
90
