[264] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ist. Two are especially significant. First,
we are facing certain problems in provid-
ing adequate housing credit-and we
must move promptly to resolve them.
Second, too many low-income families
have been left behind: they still live in
substandard, overcrowded and dilapi-
dated housing-and we must help them
meet their needs. This message and the
legislation I will seek from the Congress
focus primarily on these two challenges.
I. MAKING HOMEOWNERSHIP EASIER
Credit is the life-blood of housing.
Without an adequate supply of credit
repayable over an extended period of
time at reasonable interest rates, very few
families could afford to purchase their
own homes. Nor could landlords either
develop an adequate supply of rental
housing or make it available at reasonable
rental charges.
One of the most important actions the
Federal Government has taken in the
housing field was its decision in the 1930's
to restructure our housing credit system.
The introduction then of Federal insur-
ance for low downpayment, long-term
mortgages-first by the Federal Housing
Administration (the FHA, and later by
the Farmers Home Administration (the
FmHA) and the Veterans Administra-
tion (the VA)-encouraged lenders to
provide home mortgages on attractive
terms to millions of American families.
At the same time, the Federal decision
to insure savings deposits meant that bil-
lions of additional dollars began to flow
into our banks and into thrift institu-
tions, such as savings and loan associa-
tions. Other Federal policies led these
institutions to invest most of this money
in housing loans, creating vast new pools
of housing credit.
Although these systems have served
us well for a long time, the need for im-
provement has become increasingly evi-
dent in recent years. More and more, we
find ourselves facing either feast or fam-
ine with respect to housing credit.
When interest rates are relatively sta-
ble, we find that we have an abundance
of mortgage credit available on reason-
able terms, as was true in 1971, 1972 and
earlier this year. Whenever interest rates
move up rapidly, however, mortgage
credit becomes extremely scarce. This oc-
curred in 1966 and 1969 and it has been
happening again in recent months. As a
result, it has become more difficult for an
American family to buy or sell a home.
Even where credit is available, the com-
bination of higher interest rates and
higher downpayment requirements is
pricing too many of our families out of
the housing market.
Why does this feast or famine situation
exist?
As I pointed out in my message of
August 3rd on the reform of financial in-
stitutions, one principal reason is the fact
that our thrift institutions are unable to
compete effectively for depositors' funds
when interest rates rise quickly. The prob-
lem is a structural one: savings and loan
associations are now required to invest
most of their deposits in residential mort-
gages, which carry fixed interest rates over
long periods of time. When other interest
rates rise rapidly, the interest rates on their
mortgage portfolios cannot keep pace--
and as a consequence neither can the rates
they pay to their depositors. The result is
that depositors often draw their savings
out of the thrift institutions or at least
cut down their rate of saving leaving the
thrift institutions with much less money to
802
