[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
that order, has been largely responsible
for confounding predictions that Ameri-
can capitalism would breed its own down-
fall in the 20th century. We must build on
each of these strengths in our efforts to
protect the rights of the consumer as well
as the vigor of the free enterprise economy
in the 1970's.
Early in 1971, after the Congress had
failed to act on my "Buyer's Bill of
Rights" proposal for a new Office of
Consumer Affairs directly under the Presi-
dent, I established such an office by exec-
utive order. Under the direction of my
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs,
OCA has helped to create a stronger
consumer consciousness throughout the
executive branch.
This office is now ready to integrate its
operations more fully with the line de-
partments of the Government, and has
accordingly been transferred into the De-
partment of Health, Education and Wel-
fare-the logical base for an agency con-
cerned with human well-being.
From this new base the Office of Con-
sumer Affairs will continue its policy for-
mation role and educational efforts, and
will also take on additional responsibil-
ities, including representing consumer in-
terests in testimony before the Congress
and acting as a general ombudsman for
the individual consumer.
VOLUNTARY ACTION
Many thousands of Americans already
are volunteering their time to meet hu-
man needs in their communities-fighting
disease, teaching children to read, work-
ing to solve local social problems. But
now we must do more to tap the enor-
mous reservoir of energy represented by
millions of other potential citizen volun-
teers.
That is why three years ago I en-
couraged a number of our leading citizens
to create the National Center for Volun-
tary Action to support private volunteer
efforts; that is why two years ago I estab-
lished the new ACTION agency to
strengthen Federal volunteer programs.
We must now continue seeking new
avenues of citizen service. As we turn from
the concerns of war, may all Americans
accept the challenge of peace by volun-
teering to help meet the needs of their
communities so that we can mobilize a
new army of concerned, dedicated, able
volunteers across the Nation.
ARTS AND HUMANITIES
I know that many in the Congress share
the concern I have often expressed that
some Americans, particularly younger
people, lost faith in their country during
the 1960's. I believe this faith is now being
reborn out of the knowledge that our
country is moving toward an era of lasting
peace in the world, toward a healthier en-
vironment, and toward a new era of
progress and equality of opportunity for
all our people.
But renewed faith in ourselves also
arises from a deeper understanding of who
we are, where we have come from, and
where we are going-an understanding
to which the arts and the humanities can
make a great contribution.
Government has a limited but impor-
tant function in encouraging the arts and
the humanities-that of reinforcing local
initiatives and helping key institutions to
help themselves. With the approach of
our Bicentennial, we have a special op-
146
