Richard Nixon, 1973
May 2 [137]
hope this legislation will also be promptly
and favorably considered.
The third element in the Government's
anti-inflation program, in addition to
checking the expansion of demand
through appropriate fiscal and monetary
policies and stimulating the expansion of
supply, is the price-wage control system,
now known as Phase III.
In Phase III the Government has set
forth standards of desirable price and
wage behavior which are essentially the
same standards used during Phase II. In
some areas-food processing and distrib-
uting, construction, and medical care-
observance of these standards is manda-
tory just as it was in Phase II. For the
rest of the economy, compliance is on a
self-administering basis unless the Gov-
ernment, through the Cost of Living
Council, finds mandatory control neces-
sary. As I have said before, Phase III will
be as voluntary as it can be and as manda-
tory as it has to be.
Since Phase III began, we have taken
a number of steps to ensure the achieve-
ment of its goals. Mandatory price con-
trol has been imposed on the larger oil
companies. Ceiling prices have been set
for beef, pork, and lamb. Those wage
agreements that have appeared incon-
sistent with price stabilization have been
held up pending further study. The Inter-
nal Revenue Service is checking on some
500 large companies to be sure that their
pricing procedures conform with the
standards of Phase III. The Cost of Liv-
ing Council is meeting with representa-
tives of a number of large industries to
gain a better understanding of the causes
of their recent price increases.
So that the Government can adminis-
ter the Phase III price control program
more effectively, I have directed the Cost
of Living Council to take several further
steps.
First, it will obtain from the largest
firms a full and detailed report on price
changes that have been put into effect
since the beginning of Phase III, so that
it may order reduction of increases that
have exceeded the standards.
Second, a new system of prenotification
will be instituted. If a major firm intends
to raise its average prices more than 1.5
percent above the January 10 authorized
level, it must notify the Cost of Living
Council 30 days in advance. This will give
the Cost of Living Council an opportunity
to determine whether or not the use of its
authority to stop the increase, or some
other action, is warranted.
Third, firms not exceeding the 1.5 per-
cent limit will still be required to report
their actions quarterly, so that their con-
formity to the cost-justification standards
may be checked.
Fourth, additional resources will be as-
signed to ensure that these strengthened
efforts are carried out fairly and effec-
tively.
The Cost of Living Council will provide
the details of these actions.
This Administration will continue to do
everything it can to fight inflation, but
others must also do their part if we are to
succeed. Everyone has an interest in re-
storing reasonable price stability without
ending the present prosperity and without
rigid suppression of free markets and free
collective bargaining.
Our great need is for more production.
Only with more production can we fight
inflation while still providing the goods
and services people want.
Today I address the call for more
production particularly to the Nation's
farmers, because it is the price of food
341
