[85] Mar. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
85 Statement About Summer Job and Recreation
Programs for Youth. March 21, 1973
TODAY I am pleased to report that a
total of $424 million in Federal funds will
be available this summer for youth pro-
grams, some $3 million more than last
year.
This money should help in making the
summer of 1973 a time of expanded op-
portunity for young Americans.
The outlook for young people this sum-
mer is encouraging in many ways. Job
prospects are particularly promising,
thanks in large measure to the rapid ex-
pansion of our economy. Last year the un-
employment rate for youth dropped by 1.8
percent, even though the youth labor
force increased by 1.1 million people. This
summer, as we continue to lower the over-
all rate of unemployment, we can expect
still further gains for young Americans.
One important element in the employ-
ment picture especially for disadvan-
taged youth in our central cities whose
unemployment rate is far too high-is that
funding from Federal programs will be
sufficient to support 776,000 job oppor-
tunities for young people. Total Federal
funding available for this effort will be
$354 million, slightly less than last year
but more than the average of previous
years.
Three different sources are available
to States and localities in providing such
jobs:
-The Emergency Employment Assist-
ance Act. Last year I asked that money
for this program be increased from $1
billion in fiscal year 1972 to $1.25 billion
for the current fiscal year. Under a con-
tinuing resolution passed by the Congress
last month, full funding is now available
for this program, and we estimate that the
States and local communities will be able
to use some $300 million of it for summer
youth jobs.
-Direct Federal employment. An ad-
ditional $50.4 million is available to the
Federal Government itself for hiring
young people through ongoing Federal
programs. The Federal-State Employ-
ment Service should provide a total of
120,000 jobs for young Americans through
its Youth Summer Placement Program.
-Finally, another $3.5 million is avail-
able for summer job programs through the
Youth Conservation Corps.
I am also happy to report that this
Government commitment to summer jobs
is being matched by significant efforts in
the private sector. For example, the Na-
tional Alliance of Businessmen plans a
massive summer employment campaign to
hire an additional 175,000 young people
in 126 major metropolitan areas. Overall,
I am hopeful that this summer will bring
another significant increase in the em-
ployment rate of our youth.
For those under 14, a wide range of
recreational opportunities will be avail-
able this summer through federally
funded recreation programs operated by
cities, colleges, and universities across
America. These programs are targeted to
the needs of disadvantaged youth, pro-
viding them with healthful exercise, sports
instruction, and exposure to local cultural
institutions. Such efforts will make the
coming summer a better and more pro-
ductive time for approximately 2.3 mil-
lion people.
Other summer programs will provide
transportation services to make these em-
ployment and recreational opportunities
216
