[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
resigning, the answer is no, I shall not
resign. I have 32 years to go, or almost
32 years, and I am going to use every day
of those 3½ years trying to get the people
of the United States to recognize that,
whatever mistakes we have made, that in
the long run this Administration, by mak-
ing this world safer for their children, and
this Administration, by making their lives
better at home for themselves and their
children, deserves high marks rather than
low marks. Now, whether I succeed or
not, we can judge then.
SURVEILLANCE IN NATIONAL SECURITY
MATTERS
[12] We always have to have Mr.
Deakin [James Deakin, St. Louis Post-
Dispatch] for one.
Q. As long as we are on the subject
of the American tradition, and following
up Mr. Rather's question, what was au-
thorized, even if the burglary of Dr. Field-
ing's office was not-what was authorized
was the 1970 plan which by your own
description permitted illegal acts, illegal
breaking and entering, mail surveillance,
and the like.
Now, under the Constitution you swore
an oath to execute the laws of the United
States faithfully. If you were serving in
Congress, would you not be considering
impeachment proceedings and discussing
impeachment possibility against an elected
public official who had violated his oath
of office?
THE PRESIDENT. I would if I had vio-
lated the oath of office. I would also,
however, refer you to the recent decision
of the Supreme Court, or at least an
opinion that even last year which indi-
cates inherent power in the Presidency
to protect the national security in cases
like this. I should also point out to you
that in the 3 Kennedy years and the 3
Johnson years through 1966, when bur-
glarizing of this type did take place, when
it was authorized on a very large scale,
there was no talk of impeachment, and
it was quite well known.
I shall also point out that when you
ladies and gentlemen indicate your great
interest in wiretaps, and I understand
that, that the height of the wiretaps was
when Robert Kennedy was Attorney Gen-
eral in 1963. I don't criticize it, however.
He had over 250 in 1963, and of course,
the average in the Eisenhower Adminis-
tration and the Nixon Administration is
about 110. But if he had had 10 more
and, as a result of wiretaps, had been able
to discover the Oswald plan, it would
have been worth it.
So, I will go to another question.
FORMER ASSISTANTS TO THE PRESIDENT
HALDEMAN AND EHRLICHMAN
[13] Q. Mr. President, do you still
consider Haldeman and Ehrlichman two
of the finest public servants you have
ever known?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly do. I look
upon public servants as men who have
got to be judged by their entire record,
not by simply parts of it. Mr. Ehrlichman
and Mr. Haldeman, for 4½ years, have
served with great distinction, with great
dedication, and like everybody in this de-
plorable Watergate business, at great per-
sonal sacrifice and with no personal gain.
We admit the scandalous conduct.
Thank God there has been no personal
gain involved. That would be going much
too far. I suppose.
But the point that I make with regard
to Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman is
720
