[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
assistance programs to 70 percent and
thereby achieving parity with Federal aid
for urban and rural road building projects.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Community Development is sometimes
thought of primarily in terms of urban
areas. However, as this Administration has
often pointed out-and will continue to
emphasize-no element of our national
well-being is more important than the
health and vitality of our rural communi-
ties. Thus, in pursuing a policy of bal-
anced development for our community
life, we must always keep the needs of
rural America clearly in sight.
Twice in the last two years, I have rec-
ommended legislation which would pro-
vide new revenues for rural development.
Under my latest proposal, loans and guar-
antees would have been made for projects
selected and prepared by the States.
While the 92nd Congress did not en-
act either of these proposals, it did enact
the Rural Development Act of 1972, es-
tablishing additional lending authority for
rural needs. Like the Administration's pro-
posals, this lending authority provides for
insured loans and guaranteed loans which
allow maximum participation of the pri-
vate sector.
Several new programs are proposed to
be funded under the Rural Development
Act. One is a $200 million loan program
to assist communities with a population of
less than 50,000 in developing commercial
and industrial facilities. A previously ex-
isting loan program has been increased
by $100 million-to a total of $445 mil-
lion and, under the new law, can now
be used to construct a wide variety of es-
sential community facilities. In addition,
grants and other programs under the act
will be funded at a level of $33 million.
This Administration will implement the
Rural Development Act in a manner con-
sistent with the revenue sharing concept,
allowing major project selections and
priority decisions to be made by the State
and local governments whenever possible.
It is our intent, after fully evaluating the
effectiveness of this approach, to seek
whatever additional legislation may be
needed.
DISASTER ASSISTANCE
To a community suffering the ravages
of a natural disaster, nothing is more im-
portant than prompt and effective relief
assistance. As our population grows and
spreads, each storm, earthquake, drought
or freeze affects larger numbers of people.
During the past four years, we have
tried to reduce personal injury, deaths,
and property damage by emphasizing ade-
quate preventive measures. During the
same period, however, I have had to de-
clare 111 major disasters in 39 States and
three Territories. This past year alone set
a tragic record for major disaster activity,
as I had to declare 48 major disasters-
43 caused by storms and floodings. There
were a number of especially devastating
disaster emergencies in this period: the
flooding in Buffalo Creek, West Virginia;
flash flood in Rapid City, South Dakota;
and, of course, Tropical Storm Agnes
which rampaged through the eastern
United States. Agnes alone caused 118
deaths and some $3 billion in property
damage.
Until now, disaster relief efforts have
involved a number of different agencies
and have been coordinated by the Execu-
178
