[260] Sept. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
My proposed Mined Area Protection Act
would establish Federal requirements to
regulate surface and underground mining.
By requiring mining operators to post ade-
quate performance bonds and satisfy
stringent Federal reclamation standards,
this legislation would require that mined
lands be restored to their original condi-
tion or to a condition that is equally desir-
able. We need the fuels and minerals that
are now in the earth, but we can—and
must-secure them without despoiling
and devastating our landscape.
There is other important land use leg-
islation pending before the Congress
which also deserves prompt enactment.
The Powerplant Siting Act would assure
that needed generating facilities are con-
structed on a timely basis with full con-
sideration of environmental values. The
Natural Resource Land Management
Act would provide a management policy
emphasizing strong environmental safe-
guards for one-fifth of our Nation's land
area that is managed by the Bureau of
Land Management.
Because a number of differing values
and perspectives must be reconciled, the
regulation of land use will never be a
simple matter. The "Perspectives" chap-
ter of this report describes the anti-growth
sentiment emerging in some communities
and points to the need to reconcile con-
trols on unwanted growth with provision
for essential regional development. The
chapter on "The Law and Land Use
Regulation" discusses the balance which
must be struck between the need to pro-
tect private property and the need to
preserve the environment. This is not a
question to be dealt with from Washing-
ton, however, but one that State and local
governments and courts must work out.
The Council's chapter on this subject
should be helpful to these groups, the
legal profession and private citizens in
developing a more complete understand-
ing of this important issue.
In the final analysis, the struggle for
environmental quality rests with the citi-
zens of our Nation. The chapter on "The
Citizens' Role in Environmental Improve-
ment" shows that concern for the envi-
ronment is not merely a passing fad but
rather has become an integral part of
American life.
The Fourth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality dem-
onstrates our considerable progress in
arresting environmental decay. It also
helps to chart the path we must follow if
we are to continue this progress in the
future. I commend the members and staff
of the Council for their efforts in produc-
ing this valuable document, and I urge
the Congress and the public to give this
report their full and careful consideration.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 17, 1973-
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Environmental Quality: The Fourth
Annual Report of the Council on Environ-
mental Quality-September 1973" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 499 pp.).
The President received the Council's report
during a meeting at the White House on Sep-
tember 17, 1973, with John A Busterud. Act-
ing Chairman, Beatrice E. Willard, member,
and Russell E. Train, former Chairman
On the same day, the White House released
a summary of the report and the transcript
of a news briefing on the report and their meet-
ing with the President by Acting Chairman
Busterud and Dr. Willard.
794
