[190] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
lem. While we have only 6 percent of the
world's population, we consume one-third
of the world's energy output. The supply
of domestic energy resources available to
us is not keeping pace with our ever-grow-
ing demand, and unless we act swiftly and
effectively, we could face a genuine energy
crisis in the foreseeable future.
PROGRESS SINCE APRIL
On April 18, I submitted a message to
the Congress discussing the energy chal-
lenge and the steps necessary to meet it.
That message emphasized that as we work
to conserve our energy demands, we must
also undertake an intensive effort to ex-
pand our energy supplies. I am happy to
report that many of these steps are already
underway and that they are proving
effective.
-At least eight oil companies have
made firm decisions to undertake signifi-
cant refinery construction projects. Within
the next 3 years these projects will increase
refinery capacity by more than 1.5 million
barrels daily—a 10 percent increase over
existing capacity.
-We have announced and carried out
a voluntary oil allocation program to help
provide farmers and essential government
and health services, as well as independent
refiners and marketers, with an equi-
table share of available petroleum.
-A great deal of oil from the Outer
Continental Shelf and other Federal
lands, which has traditionally been re-
tained by the producers, has been allo-
cated to small independent refiners to aug-
ment their present supplies. That figure
has already reached 100,000 barrels of oil
per day and will increase to 160,000 by
mid-August.
-The Council on Environmental
Quality has begun a study of the environ-
mental impact of drilling on the Atlantic
Outer Continental Shelf and in the Gulf
of Alaska. The study is scheduled for com-
pletion by next spring.
-The Senate Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs has reported out legis-
lation which would finally permit the
construction of an Alaskan pipeline.
Legislation will shortly be reported out in
the House of Representatives. Since con-
struction of that pipeline would provide 2
million barrels of domestic oil a day, I
again urge that the Congress give swift
approval to this legislation.
-The Office of Energy Conservation
and the Office of Energy Data and Anal-
ysis have been established at the Depart-
ment of the Interior. Although not yet
fully staffed, they are now beginning to
provide information we must have to pro-
ceed with our developing energy policy.
-The Commerce Department has pro-
posed regulations covering the labeling of
household appliances so that consumers
can make comparisons of the efficiency
with which the appliances consume
energy.
-The Environmental Protection
Agency has published information on
gasoline mileage for 1973 automobiles.
-The Department of State is taking
steps to consult with the major oil-produc-
ing nations to develop the cooperative
arrangements needed to ensure adequate
and stable sources of oil in the future. We
are also working closely with the other
major oil-consuming nations in studying
ways of meeting growing world demand
for energy supplies. These include emer-
gency sharing arrangements, as well as
stockpile and rationing programs, which
624
