[163] May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
hours and 20 minutes, it would be after
dinner. You missed enough meals in
Hanoi without missing one in the White
House tonight.
I would be delighted, of course, to meet
all of your guests. Mrs. Nixon is up on the
eighth floor-which, incidentally, is a
much more elegant room than this one—
with your wives, having tea, and she will
meet all of them. I have met many of
them, these marvelous, marvelous women,
your wives and mothers and others who
have waited for you and stood by you and
by their Nation during the period of your
captivity.
And I thought after I finished my re-
marks, which will be in the nature of a
briefing, that to the extent that time per-
mits, I would like to meet those of you who
are here.
Now, it will take quite a bit of time, and
some of you-of course, I don't think we
have any refreshments, it is a little early
yet, but coffee maybe-in the meantime,
I would like to meet as many of you as I
possibly can, because a great number did
write and wire me upon your return that
you would like to drop by the White
House and just say hello, and there is
nothing I would like more.
So, if you have the time, I have the
time. Just remember we must get through
in time for dinner which begins around
6:30, as far as you are concerned.
Now, let me come to the briefing and
why I decided to have a briefing. Inci-
dentally, we had first thought it would
be a classified briefing, but while we knew
there was no problem insofar as leaks as
far as this group was concerned, our
friends in the press very vigorously ob-
jected, and they said, "Look, with 600
there, let us come, too.'
So, welcome. We are glad to have our
members of the press here. This will be
on the record.
I will, however, speak quite bluntly
about our foreign policy and our defense
policy. I will try to tell you as much as
I can without divulging any classified
information, and I hope that you will take
to heart some of the things that I say and,
particularly, pick up the challenge that I
am going to give you at the conclusion
of my remarks today.
I begin with the question: Was it worth
it? And I look over this group, and I
remember having talked to a half dozen
of you in my office. I think of what you
went through, and I think of what you
have come back to. And when you ask
that question, was it worth it, you can
think in personal terms, or you can think
in much broader terms.
You could say, oh yes, it was worth it
because we proved that we could tough
it through. And thank God you did, be-
cause your faith meant a great deal to us.
But I would like to put it in the larger
sense. Your sacrifice and the sacrifice of
all of your colleagues and comrades who
died in Vietnam, and the sacrifice of all
who have served in Vietnam, will have
been worth it only if we build a world
of peace now. That is what it was all
about.
We didn't go to Vietnam for the pur-
pose of conquering North Vietnam. We
didn't begin this war. We haven't begun
any war in this century, as you know.
That is the greatness of U.S. foreign pol-
icy. We make our mistakes, but we always
have as our motives defending peace, not
breaking it, defending freedom, not de-
stroying it.
But when we think in terms of whether
your sacrifice then was worth it, we have
to think then about the broader aspects
556
