Richard Nixon, 1973
June 25 [185]
ronmental protection, public health and
medicine, exploration of outer space, and
science and technology, established by the
agreements signed in May 1972 and sub-
sequently. They noted that those agree-
ments are being satisfactorily carried out
in practice in accordance with the pro-
grams as adopted.
In particular, a joint effort is under
way
to develop effective means to combat those
diseases which are most widespread and
dangerous for mankind: cancer, cardio-
vascular or infectious diseases and
arthritis. The medical aspects of the envi-
ronmental problems are also subjects of
cooperative research.
Preparations for the joint space flight
of the Apollo and Soyuz spacecraft are
proceeding according to an agreed time-
table. The joint flight of these spaceships
for a rendezvous and docking mission, and
mutual visits of American and Soviet
astronauts in each other's spacecraft, are
scheduled for July 1975.
Building on the foundation created in
previous agreements, and recognizing the
potential of both the USA and the USSR
to undertake cooperative measures in cur-
rent scientific and technological areas,
new projects for fruitful joint efforts were
identified and appropriate agreements
were concluded.
PEACEFUL USES OF ATOMIC ENERGY
Bearing in mind the great importance
of satisfying the growing energy demands
in both countries and throughout the
world, and recognizing that the develop-
ment of highly efficient energy sources
could contribute to the solution of this
problem, the President and General Sec-
retary signed an agreement to expand and
strengthen cooperation in the fields of
controlled nuclear fusion, fast breeder re-
actors, and research on the fundamental
properties of matter. A Joint Committee
on Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of
Atomic Energy will be established to im-
plement this agreement, which has a du-
ration of ten years.
AGRICULTURE
Recognizing the importance of agricul-
ture in meeting mankind's requirement
for food products and the role of science
in modern agricultural production, the
two Sides concluded an agreement pro-
viding for a broad exchange of scientific
experience in agricultural research and
development, and of information on agri-
cultural economics. A US-USSR Joint
Committee on Agricultural Cooperation
will be established to oversee joint pro-
grams to be carried out under the Agree-
ment.
WORLD OCEAN STUDIES
Considering the unique capabilities and
the major interest of both nations in the
field of world ocean studies, and noting
the extensive experience of US-USSR
oceanographic cooperation, the two Sides
have agreed to broaden their cooperation
The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 810). On June 21, 1973, the White
House released a fact sheet and the transcript
of a news briefing on the agreement by Dixy
Lee Ray, Chairman of the Atomic Energy
Commission.
"The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 791).
617
