Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
THE FAILURES OF FEDERAL HOUSING
PROGRAMS
But what have we been getting for all
this money?
Federal programs have produced some
good housing-but they have also pro-
duced some of the worst housing in
America. Our recent study makes this
clear and so does my own experience.
I have seen a number of our public
housing projects. Some of them are im-
pressive, but too many are monstrous, de-
pressing places-run down, overcrowded,
crime-ridden, falling apart.
The residents of these projects are often
strangers to one another-with little sense
of belonging. And because so many poor
people are so heavily concentrated in these
projects, they often feel cut off from the
mainstream of American life.
A particularly dramatic example of the
failure of Federal housing projects is the
Pruitt-Igoe project in St. Louis. It was
nominated for all sorts of awards when it
was built 17 years ago. It was supposed
to house some 2,700 families-but it
simply didn't work. In fact, a study of this
project was published two years ago with
the appropriate subtitle: "Life in a Fed-
eral Slum."
Last month, we agreed to tear down
this Federal slum-every unit of it. Al-
most everyone thought it was the best
thing we could do.
Pruitt-Igoe is only one example of an
all too common problem. All across Amer-
ica, the Federal Government has become
the biggest slumlord in history.
But the quality of Federally-assisted
housing is by no means the only problem.
Our present approach is also highly in-
equitable. Rather than treating those in
equal circumstances equally, it arbitrarily
selects only a few low income families to
live in Federally supported housing, while
ignoring others. Moreover, the few often
get a new home, while many other fam-
ilies including those who pay the taxes
to support these programs-must make
do with inferior older housing. And since
recipients often lose their eligibility for
public housing when they exceed a cer-
tain income level, the present approach
can actually reward dependence and dis-
courage self-reliance.
The present approach is also very
wasteful, for it concentrates on the most
expensive means of housing the poor, new
buildings, and ignores the potential for
using good existing housing. Government
involvement adds additional waste; our
recent study shows that it costs between 15
and 40 percent more for the Government
to provide housing for people than for
people to acquire that same housing them-
selves on the private market.
One of the most disturbing aspects of
the current approach is the fact that fam-
ilies are offered subsidized housing on a
"take it or leave it" basis-losing their
basic right to choose the house they will
live in and the place they will live. Too
often they are simply warehoused together
wherever the Government puts them.
They are treated as a class apart, with
little freedom to make their own decisions.
DEVELOPING A BETTER APPROACH
Leaders of all political persuasions and
from all levels of government have given
a great deal of thought in recent years
to the problem of low-income housing.
Many of them agree that the Federally-
subsidized housing approach has failed.
And many of them also agree on the rea-
sons for that failure.
807
