[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE GLOBAL CHALLENGES OF PEACE
Our purpose in building a structure of
peace is not simply to prevent the out-
break of war. We also seek to foster a new
spirit of cooperation among nations in
meeting urgent problems that face the
whole human family. Some of these can
be welcomed as opportunities, such as the
use of the oceans and the exploration of
space. Others are vexing problems, in-
cluding pollution, international terrorism,
and drug abuse. But all transcend ide-
ology and parochial conceptions of na-
tional self-interest. They involve the
world's interests and the entire world com-
munity must work together on them.
Since taking office, this Administration
has sought ways to focus world attention
on these issues and to propose measures
for resolving them. Substantial progress
has been made in a number of areas, but
in all areas much more remains to be
done before we can feel we have effec-
tively met the global challenges of peace.
THE OCEANS
As man's activities in the oceans in-
tensify, the need for international accom-
modation is clear. Serious efforts are now
being made in the United Nations to work
out new rules and develop institutions to
ensure the rational future use of the ma-
rine environment. If these efforts are suc-
cessful, mankind's development of the sea
frontier can proceed without the destruc-
tive national rivalries that characterized
the earlier race for land empires. But if
the effort fails, conflicting claims and
bitter international disputes are inevitable.
As a major maritime power and a lead-
er in ocean technology, the United States
has a special responsibility for this inter-
national effort to reach agreement on the
peaceful use of the world's oceans. To-
gether with more than go other nations,
we are making intensive preparations for
a comprehensive Law of the Sea Confer-
ence called for by a resolution of the
United Nations General Assembly. We
have introduced detailed proposals re-
lating to the seabed and seabed resources,
living marine resources, the breadth of
the territorial sea, and freedom of transit
through and over international straits.
These proposals are designed to accom-
modate the diverse interests of many na-
tions and to permit all to use the seas
more effectively and harmoniously.
An early and successful Law of the Sea
Conference is essential. The demands on
such a Conference will be intense if an
effective new law of the sea treaty is to
be realized. Each nation will have to iden-
tify with care its vital interests in the use
of the world's oceans and their resources,
and to enter the negotiations ready to seek
accommodation of potentially conflicting
national interests.
The United States shares, to a greater
or lesser degree, all the fundamental in-
terests being weighed in these negotia-
tions. We have a crucial stake in ensuring
that essential high seas freedoms are main-
tained. We also have important interests
in the areas off our coasts. Some 80 per-
cent of all U.S. fishing is conducted in
adjacent coastal waters, and offshore oil
production is nearly 20 percent of the U.S.
total. We are also concerned with protect-
ing our coastline and coastal waters from
pollution and otherwise preserving the
marine environment.
Territorial Seas and Straits. The United
States has presented to the UN Seabed
Committee draft treaty articles providing
for:
506
