Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
private studies have been directed to the
development of necessary reforms in the
Federal Criminal Code. It is time that
such reforms be undertaken. I have sub-
mitted a sweeping proposal for reform,
based upon a five-year study by a bipar-
tisan national commission. This measure
would eliminate a number of inadequate,
obsolete, or frivolous statutes from the
Code and would reorder other statutes
into a rational, integrated Code responsive
to the needs of our modern society.
Although extensive consideration has
already been given to this matter by pub-
lic and private commissions, I realize that
a prudent Congress will still wish to study
this matter carefully. Senator McClellan
has also introduced his own proposals for
comprehensive Code reform. Certainly
the best parts of each set of proposals can
be joined as the legislative process goes
forward. Fortunately, hearings have al-
ready begun in the Senate and I trust
that both Houses will move with appro-
priate dispatch on this complex but vital
endeavor.
HEROIN TRAFFICKING ACT
In spite of our encouraging progress in
eliminating the scourge of drug abuse in
America, we still have a long way to go in
this vital work.
The center of gravity for America's
drug problem rests in the area of "hard
drugs"—with heroin at the top of the list.
Heroin trafficking is involved with the
entire spectrum of criminality, ranging
from international organized crime to
muggings on the street. It is one of the
most remunerative areas of criminal
activity and we will never be able to cope
with it effectively until the sanctions we
can bring to bear against it are as severe
as its profits are attractive.
Recent studies have shown that tens of
thousands of those arrested on narcotics
charges are put right back on the street
for periods ranging up to a year and more
as they successfully play for time against
the courts. More alarming still is the fact
that many thousands of those convicted
on narcotics charges are never sent to jail.
Such facts mean that the penalties for
hard drug trafficking are an ineffective
deterrent when compared with the poten-
tial gains from this multi-billion dollar
criminal activity.
The conclusion is simple. We must have
laws that will enable us to take heroin
traffickers off the streets. I have submitted
a proposal which would do precisely that.
It would provide tough new penalties for
heroin traffickers including minimum
mandatory prison sentences. It would also
allow a judge to consider the danger to
the community before releasing arrested
heroin traffickers on bail.
Heroin traffic is a clear and present
danger, the pernicious effects of which
all reasonable men can agree upon. While
many of the proposals which I have placed
before the Congress may require extended
consideration, the need for cracking down
on the heroin traffic cannot reasonably be
supposed to be among them. I ask there-
fore that the immediate attention of the
Congress be given to legislation which
would help us eliminate this market for
misery.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
The death penalty is not a sanction to
be employed loosely or considered lightly,
but neither is it to be ignored as a fitting
781
