Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 15 [80]
boycotts and so forth. I generally do not
feel that that is an effective use of what
we call "people power."
On the other hand, I would suggest that
the greatest and most powerful weapon
against high prices in this country is the
American housewife. Her decisions, as she
buys, whether she buys something that is
more expensive or less expensive, can have
far greater effect on price control than
anything we do here. And I would sug-
gest that the fact that some of the pres-
sure on prices may be lessening now, as a
result of housewives buying more care-
fully, may have some good effect.
WHITE HOUSE AIDES AND THE ERVIN
COMMITTEE
[10.] Q. Mr. President, does your
offer to cooperate with the Ervin com-
mittee include the possibility that you
would allow your aides to testify before
his committee? And if it does not, would
you be willing to comply with a court
order, if Ervin went to court to get one,
that required some testimony from White
House aides?
THE PRESIDENT. In answer to your first
part of the question, the statement that we
made yesterday answered that com-
pletely-not yesterday, the 12th I think it
was my statement on executive privi-
lege. Members of the White House Staff
will not appear before a committee of
Congress in any formal session.
We will furnish information under the
proper circumstances. We will consider
each matter on a case-by-case basis.
With regard to the second point, that is
not before us. Let me say, however, that
if the Senate feels at this time that this
matter of separation of powers-where,
as I said, this Administration has been
more forthcoming than any Democratic
administration I know of—if the Senate
feels that they want a court test, we
would welcome it. Perhaps this is the
time to have the highest Court of this land
make a definitive decision with regard to
this matter.
I am not suggesting that we are asking
for it. But I would suggest that if the
Members of the Senate, in their wisdom,
decide that they want to test this matter
in the courts, we will, of course, present
our side of the case. And we think that
the Supreme Court will uphold, as it al-
ways usually has, the great constitutional
principle of separation of powers rather
than to uphold the Senate.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE COMPARISON
[11] Q. Mr. President, isn't there an
essential difference really between your in-
vestigation of the Hiss case and the re-
quest of this subcommittee to Mr. Dean to
appear? In the former, foreign affairs was
involved and possibly security matters,
where here they only wish to question Mr.
Dean about the breaking into the Water-
gate?
The President. Yes, I would say the
difference is very significant. As a matter
of fact, when a committee of Congress was
investigating espionage against the Gov-
ernment of this country, that committee
should have had complete cooperation
from at least the executive branch of the
Government in the form that we asked.
All that we asked was to get the report
that we knew they had already made of
their investigation.
Now, this investigation does not involve
espionage against the United States. It
211
