Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 11 [115]
Well, it was Southeast Asia's good fortune
that there was a President in America who
considered it his primary purpose to discharge
his onerous responsibilities to America and to
the world, and this fortune could be turned
to permanent gains if, after the thumping
majority that you obtained last November,
Mr. President, you could complete your
second term, complete the hopeful beginnings
that you initiated in your first.
In the last few days in this country, I have
discovered that any statement, any argument,
however dispassionate, however blandly
couched, which can be faintly directly or in-
directly construed as in support of or in sym-
pathy with any of the hopes, policies, or aspira-
tions of this Administration finds very scant
space in the mass media. [Laughter] So I was
sorely tempted to couch my arguments in quer-
ulous, tendentious terms in order to get that
scant space.
But perhaps there is more benefit in following
your example, Mr. President, of the detached—
the cultivated detachment of mind which en-
ables you to pursue what is right in the long
run, never mind what it is in the short run,
whether it wins rapturous applause or other-
wise.
I was privileged this morning to hear your
frank overview of America's position vis-a-vis
Asia, not just Southeast Asia, and placed in
the context of the whole world, a global per-
spective. You were kind enough to make a refer-
ence to my outlook on these matters. Well, I
have to.
We are a very small country placed stra-
tegically at the southernmost tip of Asia, and
when the elephants are on the rampage, if
you are a mouse there and you don't know
the habits of the elephants, it can be a very
painful business.
I was encouraged that you believed that
this new balance, new world order in which
there is greater peace, greater prosperity, could
be achieved not by America in isolation but
with the participation of America's allies, in
particular Western Europe and Japan, and of
course, particularly that there should be fairer
and more equal terms of trade.
Now, if this negotiating package can be set-
tled, and if that can be matched in negotiations
with both the Soviet Union and the People's
Republic of China for a steady and a stable,
continuing détente, then peace and prosperity
without war is not just an American dream but
a world vision of the future, reassuring for all
mankind who have to live in this ever smaller,
more interrelated, and more interdependent
world.
I believe I now understand you better, what
you meant when you stated over television, if I
may paraphrase you, that you had to have a
strong America if you were going to get con-
cessions, for only a strong America can make
concessions in return.
May I express this hope: that in your second
term you will be able to complete the new
chapter which you have started in your first
term through the policies which you initiated
with such great promise.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, may I ask
you to drink with me to the health of the
President of the United States.
Mr. President.
115 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Pension
Reform Legislation. April 11, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
A dynamic economic system in a democ-
racy must not only provide plentiful jobs,
good working conditions, and a decent
living wage for the people it employs; it
should also help working men and women
to set aside enough of the earnings of their
most productive years to assure them of a
secure and comfortable income in their
retirement years.
This fundamental concept of prudent
savings for retirement came under direct
public sponsorship in the United States
more than a generation ago, with the
establishment of the Social Security Sys-
tem. Today, Social Security is the largest
273
