[224] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
have failed-but Japan will succeed in
a spectacular recovery because of the
strength, the character of the Japanese
people, and also of the character of their
leadership.
A small thing, Mr. Prime Minister: One
day we were riding along the road out
toward a village, and as we rode along,
I saw two workmen in the field, a man
and a woman, plowing the field. We
stopped the car, we went out, we met
them. I didn't understand their language;
they didn't understand ours. But as I met
them and as I felt in their hands the
strength and the determination that was
there, I knew here were the representa-
tives of a great people. And that is why
Japan today is a great nation.
Oh, all the nice little words are said-
"Because of your aid, we have come
back"--and it helped, but the truth of the
matter is that the nation we honor tonight
and the leader we honor tonight are in a
position of greatness in the world be-
cause they have within them that inner
strength, that drive to greatness which will
never, never be suppressed.
Now, many of you probably wonder
what the Prime Minister and I talked
about at dinner tonight and what we
talked about in our meetings today. It
would make very lively chitchat to say
that, like a couple of desert rug merchants,
we haggled over what is the textile quota
going to be or what are we going to do
about this or that or the other thing in-
volved between our two countries. But
those were not the subjects, because-and
this is, I think, typical of the relationship
that has developed between our two coun-
tries and of the Prime Minister's feeling
and my feeling about the role he and I
have to play in the brief time we are in
the position of world leadership-we
talked about this world in which we live.
We talked about the fact that between
Japan and the United States, over 40
percent of all the goods in the world are
produced. We talked about the fact that
Japan and America working together, not
against anybody else, but working for
peace and for progress, for decency, civil-
ity, that we could make the difference as to
whether the 3 billion people on this Earth
will grow up in peace and in friendship.
or in ugly confrontation and eventual
nuclear destruction.
It is so easy these days to think in other
terms, to think in the minuscule political
terms that I think tempt us all from time
to time and tempt those who represent
the people in both countries--make a
small point here, work in the murky field
of political partisanship but what really
matters is this: After our short time on
this great world stage is completed and
we leave, what do we leave?
Do we leave the memory only of the
battles we fought, of the opponents we
did in, of the viciousness that we created,
or do we leave possibly not only the dream
but the reality of a new world, a world
in which millions of the wonderful young
children that I saw by the millions in
Japan and that the Prime Minister will
see by the millions here in America may
grow up in peace and in friendship.
That is what we talked about. That is
what Japanese-American friendship is
about. We are competitors, and that is
good, competitors in terms of saying who
can do best in producing those things
that peoples of the world want for peace-
ful purposes.
But we are not competitors, we are
total friends and cooperators when it
674
