[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Persian Gulf passed through a critical
transition, with the termination of the
century-old protectorate relationship be-
tween Great Britain and the nine Arab
Emirates of the lower Gulf. Considering
the number of states involved and the
diversity of political and economic condi-
tions, the transition of this area to inde-
pendence has been remarkably smooth.
The Emirates have developed new politi-
cal ties among themselves and assumed
responsibility for their own security and
destiny. Some territorial disputes and
rivalries remain, but these have not been
allowed to undermine their perceived
common interest in unity and stability.
Two of the largest Gulf states, Iran and
Saudi Arabia, have undertaken greater
responsibility for helping to enhance the
area's stability and for ensuring that the
destiny of the Gulf will be determined by
the nations of the Gulf without interfer-
ence from outside.
Mutual assistance among Middle East
nations has an important economic di-
mension. The wealthier nations of the
area have in their own interest and in
the general interest-taken on the respon-
sibility of assisting economic and social
development. On the occasion of my visit
to Tehran last May, I joined with His Im-
perial Majesty the Shah of Iran in affirm-
ing that "the economic development and
welfare of the bordering states of the
Persian Gulf are of importance to the
stability of the region." The Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development has
worked effectively in this area for some
time. The Government of Saudi Arabia is
providing significant support to its neigh-
bors. Iran and other Middle East nations
are adding to the flow of financial and
technical help within the region.
These are positive developments. They
strengthen the forces of moderation.
There is reason for hope that these trends
of collaboration will survive, gather
strength over time, and contribute in turn
to a favorable political evolution.
AGENDA FOR THE FUTURE
Looking ahead several years, what does
the United States hope to see in the Mid-
dle East? We hope to see, first of all, a
region at peace-with a number of strong,
healthy, and independent political units
cooperating among themselves, free of
external interference, and welcoming the
constructive participation of outside
powers. I have no doubt that this is also
the objective of the peoples and govern-
ments of all the countries in the Middle
East.
The United States will therefore ad-
dress itself to these specific tasks:
-First is the settlement of the Arab-
Israeli conflict through a process of
negotiation. There must be realism
on all sides about what is achievable.
Neither side will attain its maximum
demands, but an accommodation is
possible that preserves the honor and
security of both sides. The absence of
peace is a threat to both sides, which
will increase, not diminish, over time.
-Second, the world and the region
have an interest in turning great-
power relationships with the Middle
East into a force for stability. This
means that the principles of restraint,
peaceful settlement, and avoidance
of confrontation that are set forth in
the Basic Principles of U.S.-Soviet
Relations must become enduring
realities. It will require outward-
looking economic relations among
the Middle East, North Africa, the
452
