Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 6 [249]
able, because coverage under the act
would impose a second, conflicting set of
overtime premium pay rules in addition to
those already governing such pay for Fed-
eral employees. It would be virtually im-
possible to apply both laws in a consistent
and equitable manner.
Extension of Federal minimum wage
and overtime standards to State and local
government employees is an unwarranted
interference with State prerogatives and
has been opposed by the Advisory Com-
mission on Intergovernmental Relations.
NEED FOR BALANCE AND MODERATION
In sum, while I support the objective
of increasing the minimum wage, I cannot
agree to doing so in a manner which
would substantially curtail employment of
the least experienced and least skilled of
our people and which would weaken our
efforts to achieve full employment and
price stability. It is to forestall these un-
acceptable effects that I am vetoing H.R.
7935.
I call upon the Congress to enact in its
place a moderate and balanced set of
amendments to the Fair Labor Standards
Act which would be consistent with the
Nation's economic stabilization objectives
and which would protect employment
opportunities for low wage earners and
the unemployed and especially nonstu-
dent teenagers who have the most severe
unemployment problems. To the millions
of working Americans who would benefit
from sound and carefully drawn legisla-
tion to raise the minimum wage, I pledge
the Administration's cooperation with the
House and Senate in moving such a meas-
ure speedily onto the statute books.
The White House,
September 6, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained
the President's veto on September 19, 1973.
249 Remarks During a Meeting With Economic Advisers.
September 6, 1973
GEORGE P. SHULTZ [Secretary of the
Treasury]. Here are some statistics that
will show that the commodity prices have
decreased since the wholesale price index
figures were collected.
THE PRESIDENT. That is the thing you
were mentioning this morning.
SECRETARY SHULTZ. Yes. For example,
in the middle of August the prices for soy-
beans were $10.26 per bushel. Yesterday,
they were at $7. It has come down $3.26,
or 32 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. That is since the fig-
ure that we will read tomorrow?
SECRETARY SHULTZ. That is since the
figure that we will read tomorrow. Those
are the soybean futures for today. It is
down here, 29 percent. Wheat is still way
up there.
THE PRESIDENT. Wheat is no problem.
It is corn and soybeans.
HERBERT STEIN [Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers]. Hogs are
down. Hogs are down 21 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. How could hogs be
down? Because those hogs were fed on
that higher-priced corn, weren't they?
MR. STEIN. Well, people aren't buying
them. They went up even though they
were fed on the higher-priced corn.
749
