[22] Jan. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
ber countries of the International Mone-
tary Fund. This year we expect to enter
negotiations on the subject of trade.
We want the American people to be
able to buy those foreign goods and serv-
ices that are better, cheaper, or more
interesting than our own. That raises the
American standard of living. We want our
people to be able to invest abroad when
that is the most profitable thing to do.
But we also want the American people to
be able to pay for these purchases and in-
vestments in the way that is best for us.
That means, first, that we must be able
to pay by selling abroad the things that we
produce best, and selling them on the best
terms that we can freely obtain. Second,
it means that we must be able to pay in
a way that is sustainable so that we are not
confronted with the need for sudden and
possibly painful adjustments.
Existing arrangements are not favorable
to us in either respect. We have been buy-
ing from abroad in rapidly increasing
amounts, and that has helped the Amer-
ican people. But our exports, with which
we seek to pay for these imports, have
been subject to high barriers, particularly
in the case of our agricultural products.
We have not been able to sell enough to
pay for our overseas expenditures, and so
we have had to pay by incurring more and
more short-term debts abroad. This is not
a situation that can go on indefinitely;
its sudden ending could be disruptive.
Therefore we want to bring about those
reforms that will permit us to earn our
way.
Our proposals have been, and will be,
put forth in the U.S. national interest.
But this is not contrary to the interest of
other countries. International competi-
tion is shifting from the military and
political arenas to the economic. This is
a great advantage, because in economic
competition every participant can win—
there need be no losers. The effort of each
nation to produce and sell what it can do
most efficiently will benefit others. This is
the fundamental belief underlying our
proposals for reform and the fundamental
reason for thinking that a satisfactory
agreement will be reached.
The general prediction is that 1973
will be another very good year for the
American economy. I believe that it can
be a great year. It can be a year in which
we reduce unemployment and inflation
further and enter into a sustained period
of strong growth, full employment, and
price stability. But 1973 will be a great
year only if we manage our fiscal affairs
prudently and do not exceed the increases
in Federal expenditures that I have pro-
posed. This is the practical lesson of the
experience from 1965 to 1968, when loose
fiscal policy turned a healthy expansion
into a feverish boom followed by a reces-
sion. I am determined to live by this les
son. And I urgently appeal to the Congress
to join me in doing so.
January 31, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, dated January 31, 1973,
was released January 30 and is printed, together
with the Annual Report of the Council of
Economic Advisers, in "Economic Report of
the President, Transmitted to the Congress
January 1973" (Government Printing Office,
301 pp.).
On January 30, the White House also re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
Economic Report by Herbert Stein, Chairman,
and Marina von N. Whitman and Ezra Solo-
mon, members, Council of Economic Advisers
52
