Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 2 [227]
Government into an area which is tradi-
tionally a concern of State and local gov-
ernments and should remain under their
jurisdiction.
Instead of providing flexibility for local
decisionmaking, a new Federal categori-
cal program of this sort would encour-
age State and local governments to
commit limited funds to federally-defined
objectives when their funds might other-
wise be spent for local purposes of higher
priority.
The bill would authorize appropria-
tions of $185 million for this program over
the next three years. This is far in excess
of the amounts that can be prudently
spent, and S. 504 therefore represents a
promise of Federal financial assistance
that cannot be kept. I believe all of us
must avoid actions of this kind which tend
to mislead and therefore disappoint the
public.
My second objection to this bill is that it
requires the continued operation of the
inpatient facilities of the eight general
hospitals presently maintained by the
Public Health Service. These hospitals
have a record of service to this Nation,
and especially to its merchant seamen,
which is long and distinguished. Never-
theless, it is clear that their inpatient fa-
cilities have now outlived their usefulness
to the Federal Government. The number
of individuals they serve is declining and
many of the facilities have become old
and outmoded.
Accordingly, the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare has em-
barked upon a program of contracting
with community hospitals for the care of
those now served by Public Health Service
hospitals. The patients now cared for in
Public Health Service hospitals are en-
titled to receive the best medical treat-
ment available. The fact is that many of
our community hospitals are more mod-
ern, better equipped and more conven-
iently located than the Public Health
facilities and thus would provide better
medical care. I cannot agree to legisla-
tion that would deny these patients that
opportunity.
The White House,
August 1, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On August 2, 1973, the Senate voted
to override the President's veto. The House of
Representatives sustained the veto on Sep-
tember 12.
227 Statement on Signing the
Expansion Act of 1973.
I AM PLEASED today to sign S. 59, the
"Veterans Health Care Expansion Act of
1973," a bill which will substantially ex-
pand the health benefits available to our
Nation's veterans and their families.
Lest year the Congress passed a dif-
ferent veterans health care bill which I
vetoed, because it would have severely
Veterans Health Care
August 2, 1973
limited our ability to provide quality med-
ical care to our veterans and would have
unnecessarily added hundreds of millions
of dollars to the Federal budget.
As a result of a constructive compromise
worked out between members of the
House and Senate Veterans Affairs Com-
mittees and my representatives, S. 59 rep-
681
