[122] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
matter of fact, agreed in some areas were,
with the results that I have indicated.
But it did work. And what has hap-
pened is that over the past 4 years, not
because of what we had in Phase I or
Phase II, primarily, but because of a co-
operation and working together between
management and labor, this industry is no
longer a sick industry. Work stoppages are
the lowest that they have been in 25 years
in this industry, and you get the credit.
Also, we find that as far as wage rates are
concerned, while they continue to go up,
that this industry has been responsible,
and you get the credit.
What I am simply saying to you is this:
That is the way our system works, and as
I stand before you today, let me tell you
I know the various things in which you are
interested in the economic area. I could
just simply come up before you and say
I am for everything that you are, but you
want it straight from the shoulder, and
you want it in terms that you know I will
be able to carry out.
I don't tell you that, but I do say this:
I do say, I believe in this industry. It is
essential to the prosperity of America. Let
me tell you, when construction goes down,
the economy goes down. I want this econ-
omy to go up, and I want construction to
go up. And I can also say to you, we are
going to see to it that not only do you get
a hearing, through your Secretary of
Labor and other representatives here, who
will be in to see me from time to time in
the future as they have in the past, but
also you will get decisions that are made
that, I think, you will say are helpful to-
ward building not only a better construc-
tion industry but also strengthening an
essential element of the American con-
struction industry, and that is the free
labor movement.
Let me turn now, if I could, to another
point that I think will be of considerable
interest to you. You have been reading
about the Federal budget. You have been
reading about priorities, and I know many
of you probably come from areas where
you wonder why it is that we have to limit
a budget to $268 billion.
I will tell you why. It is no pleasure for
the President of the United States to veto
a spending bill, and after all, it isn't my
money. It is yours.
So, when the Congress overspends, why
don't I sign it all? You know, dish out
that dough all over the country because
then the people have it for this project
and that project, and so forth down the
line.
I know why I don't. I am going to lay it
right on the line. The reason I don't is
this: I have a responsibility as President
of the United States to see that Federal
spending is kept at a level that does not
raise your taxes and that does not raise
your prices or does not have the effect of
contributing to what could be a very, very
sharp inflation.
Now, if this budget goes over the $268
billion, which is a very, very high budget, it
will inevitably mean that either your taxes
are going to go up, or you are going to
have your prices up, or, third, it is going
to risk your jobs. Because the history of all
inflationary budgets when they go above
certain amounts, beyond what the tax sys-
tem would produce at full employment,
is that they inevitably lead to recession and
loss of jobs.
So, I just want to say to all of you, it is
not with great pleasure that I veto a bill
which may deal with-as I did last
week-with water and sewer in rural
areas, but I do it because I think I owe it
to the American people to take action
292
