[29] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
ment and for the American taxpayer. We
are not spending the Federal Govern-
ment's money, we are spending the tax-
payer's money, and it must be spent in a
way which guarantees his money's worth
and yields the fullest possible benefit to the
people being helped.
The answer to many of the domestic
problems we face is not higher taxes and
more spending. It is less waste, more re-
sults and greater freedom for the individ-
ual American to earn a rightful place in
his own community-and for States and
localities to address their own needs in
their own ways, in the light of their own
priorities.
By giving the people and their locally
elected leaders a greater voice through
changes such as revenue sharing, and by
saying "no" to excessive Federal spend-
ing and higher taxes, we can help achieve
this goal.
COMING MESSAGES
The policies which I will outline to the
Congress in the weeks ahead represent a
reaffirmation, not an abdication, of Fed-
eral responsibility. They represent a prag-
matic rededication to social compassion
and national excellence, in place of the
combination of good intentions and fuzzy
follow-through which too often in the past
was thought sufficient.
In the field of economic affairs, our
objectives will be to hold down taxes, to
continue controlling inflation, to promote
economic growth, to increase productiv-
ity, to encourage foreign trade, to keep
farm income high, to bolster small busi-
ness, and to promote better labor-man-
agement relations.
In the area of natural resources, my
recommendations will include programs
to preserve and enhance the environment,
to advance science and technology, and to
assure balanced use of our irreplaceable
natural resources.
In developing human resources, I will
have recommendations to advance the
Nation's health and education, to im-
prove conditions of people in need, to
carry forward our increasingly successful
attacks on crime, drug abuse and injus-
tice, and to deal with such important
areas of special concern as consumer af-
fairs. We will continue and improve our
Nation's efforts to assist those who have
served in the Armed Services in Viet-
nam through better job and training
opportunities.
We must do a better job in community
development-in creating more livable
communities, in which all of our chil-
dren can grow up with fuller access to
opportunity and greater immunity to the
social evils and blights which now plague
so many of our towns and cities. I shall
have proposals to help us achieve this.
I shall also deal with our defense and
foreign policies, and with our new ap-
proaches to the role and structure of Gov-
ernment itself.
Considered as a whole, this series of
messages will be a blueprint for modern-
izing the concept and the functions of
American Government to meet the needs
of our people.
Converting it into reality will require a
spirit of cooperation and shared commit-
ment on the part of all branches of the
Government, for the goals we seek are not
those of any single party or faction, they
are goals for the betterment of all Ameri-
cans. As President, I recognize that I can-
not do this job alone. The Congress must
76
