Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
diversity. While complete integration of
policy was impossible, pure unilateralism
would be destructive.
Before, we were allied in containment
of a unified Communist danger. Now
Communism had taken various forms;
our alliances had stabilized the European
and Northeast Asian environments; and
we had laid the foundations for negotia-
tion. We had to decide together not only
what we were against, but what we were
for.
Peace required the ending of an on-
going war. Our approach to the Vietnam
conflict and our shaping of a new foreign
policy were inextricably linked. Naturally,
our most urgent concern was to end the
war. But we had to end it-or at least
our involvement-in a way that would
continue to make possible a responsible
American role in the world.
We could not continue on the course
we inherited, which promised neither an
end to the conflict nor to our involvement.
At the same time, we would not abandon
our friends, for we wanted to shape a
structure of peace based in large measure
on American steadiness. So we sought
peace with honor-through negotiation if
possible, through Vietnamization if the
enemy gave us no choice. The phased
shifting of defense responsibilities to the
South Vietnamese would give them the
time and means to adjust. It would assure
the American people that our own in-
volvement was not open-ended. It would
preserve our credibility abroad and our
cohesion at home.
Given the enemy's attitude, peace was
likely to take time, and other problems in
the world could not wait. So we moved
promptly to shape a new approach to
allies and adversaries. And by painting on
this larger canvas we sought both to put
the Vietnam war in perspective and to
speed its conclusion by demonstrating to
Hanoi that continued conflict did not
frustrate our global policies.
Peace needed America's strength. Mod-
ifications in our defense policy were re-
quired, but one central truth persisted-
neither our nation nor peace in the world
could be secure without our military
power. If superiority was no longer prac-
tical, inferiority would be unthinkable.
We were determined to maintain a na-
tional defense second to none. This would
be a force for stability in a world of evolv-
ing partnerships and changing doctrines.
This was essential to maintain the con-
fidence of our friends and the respect of
our adversaries. At the same time, we
would seek energetically to promote na-
tional and international security through
arms control negotiations.
Peace involved a fresh dimension of in-
ternational cooperation. A new form of
multilateral diplomacy was prompted by
a new set of issues. These challenges cov-
ered a wide range the promise of explo-
ration, the pollution of our planet, the
perils of crime-but they were alike in
going beyond the traditional considera-
tions doctrine and geography. They re-
quired cooperation that reached not only
across boundaries but often around the
globe. So we resolved to work both with
friends and adversaries, in the United
Nations and other forums, to practice
partnership on a global scale.
Above all, peace demanded the respon-
sible participation of all nations. With
great efforts during the postwar period
we had promoted the revitalization of
former powers and the growing assurance
of new states. For this changed world we
353
