Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 19 [363]
postpone your departure for a month
until February 1 in order to assist in the
work related to next month's State of the
Union and Budget Messages to the Con-
gress. When you agreed to return to
public service seven months ago, I knew
of your desire that it be temporary, and I
certainly understand the special personal
considerations for your decision now. But
because our association over the years has
meant such a great deal to me personally,
as well as officially, I wanted you to know
how much you will be missed.
Since the beginning of our Adminis-
tration nearly five years ago, no one has
served our Nation more capably and con-
scientiously than you. The impressive
record you built as Secretary of Defense
and in your present position is without
parallel-not only for its high distinction,
but also as measured by your selfless de-
votion to the well-being of your country-
men and women. Goals which we set in
1969 are today achievements to which we
can point with justifiable pride, knowing
they have and will continue to benefit the
American people and other peoples of the
world.
In converting to an all-volunteer service
and shifting the balance of our Federal
budget from defense to human resources,
your contributions have been invaluable.
Above all, we have ended American
involvement in our longest war and em-
barked on a promising course of negotia-
tions aimed at building a durable struc-
ture of peace throughout the world. That
we have accomplished this while always
maintaining the preparedness of our na-
tional defense and the quality of our
Armed Forces is the surest tribute to your
brilliant leadership. You have properly
earned the gratitude of all Americans, and
I am confident I speak for them in express-
ing heartfelt thanks.
As we both know, these past months
have been particularly challenging, and it
has been heartening to me that I have al-
ways been able to look to your sound judg-
ment and wise counsel when it was needed
most. More than anything else, I have
valued your loyal friendship during this
difficult period. It has been a constant
source of reassurance to me and words
cannot adequately convey how much I
have appreciated your steadfastness.
As you once again return to private life
to assume a prestigious position in the
field of national and international publi-
cation, Pat joins me in sending Barbara
and you our warmest good wishes for
every future success and happiness. No
one is more richly deserving.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Melvin R. Laird, The White
House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Mr.
Laird on his resignation.
The text of Mr. Laird's letter of resignation,
dated December 17, 1973, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Following our conversation earlier today
concerning my future plans, which I outlined
to you in previous discussions and in an earlier
letter of December 6, I will be pleased to post-
pone my departure from the White House staff
for thirty days in order to help in the final
development of your State of the Union and
Budget messages to the Congress. As we agreed,
Vice President Ford is eminently qualified to
serve you most effectively in a broad range of
areas including those to which you have looked
to me since I joined the White House staff last
June 6. Vice President Ford is in a unique
position statutorily and personally to assume
the responsibilities you asked me to perform
as Counsellor to the President for Domestic
1017
