Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 8 [73]
tive Office of the President. The experi-
ence of the past few years has demon-
strated that:
-We are not doing nearly enough to
prepare in advance for disasters.
-States, local governments and private
individuals should assume a larger role in
preparing for disasters, and in reliev-
ing the damage after they have occurred.
-Responsibility for relief is presently
too fragmented among too many authori-
ties.
-At the Federal level, disaster relief
should be managed by a single agency.
I intend to make 1973 a turning point
in the quality of governmental response
to natural disasters.
To achieve this goal, I have already
proposed Reorganization Plan Number 1
of 1973, which is now before the Con-
gress. It calls for the delegation of all
responsibility for coordinating disaster
relief to the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, who is also my
Counsellor for Community Development.
This transfer of operations would take
place at the beginning of the new fiscal
year and would be carried out in such a
way that the effective relations which now
exist with State disaster officials would in
no way be harmed, while a new sense of
unity and mobility at the Federal level
would be fostered.
If the Congress enacts my proposal for
a new Department of Community Devel-
opment, that new department would be
responsible for directing all Federal dis-
aster activities, including those of several
other agencies which perform disaster
roles.
In addition to the improvements I have
proposed in Reorganization Plan Number
1, I will shortly submit a new Disaster As-
sistance Act to the Congress. This new act
is designed to improve the delivery of Fed-
eral assistance, to provide a more equitable
basis for financing individual property
losses, and to forge a more balanced part-
nership for meeting disasters head-on-a
partnership not only among governments
at all levels but also between governments
and private citizens.
Under these proposals, each level of
government would accept responsibility
for those things it can do best. While the
Federal Government would continue to
assist with financing, State and local gov-
ernments would have far more latitude
and responsibility in the use of those funds.
They would also be encouraged to assert
stronger leadership in efforts to minimize
the damage of future disasters.
For homeowners, farmers and business-
men who have suffered disaster losses, the
Federal Government would continue to
provide direct assistance.
I will also recommend to the Congress
an expansion of the national flood insur-
ance program to allow participation by
more communities in flood-prone areas
and to increase the limits of coverage.
CONCLUSION
As reflected by the proposals set forth
here, I believe that we must strike out on
broad, new paths of community develop-
ment in America.
During the last few years, we have taken
genuine, measurable strides toward better
communities.
All of this is good; it is not good enough.
It is clear that we can and should be
accomplishing more in the field of com-
munity development. There are too many
programs that have been tried and found
179
