[63] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
on his way there for discussions. The Su-
danese Government is working on the
problem. We will do everything that we
can to get them released, but we will not
pay blackmail.
point is, it is going down. And we expect
adherence to the agreement from both
sides. We will use our influence on both
sides to get adherence to the agreement.
OBSERVANCE OF THE VIETNAM CEASE-FIRE
[11] Q. Mr. President, are you dis-
appointed or are you concerned that the
cease-fire agreement in Vietnam has not
been observed as scrupulously as you
might have liked up to now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let's look at what
has happened. A cease-fire agreement is
always difficult. You may recall I have
mentioned that on occasion, that it is par-
ticularly difficult in the case of a guerrilla
war. I have often been, as some of you
gentlemen and ladies have, at the demar-
cation line in Korea. Many people forget
that 20 years after the Korean cease-fire,
where you have a demarcation line, a clear
line between the one side and the other,
where they have no guerrilla war, there
are still incidents, not many, but there are
still incidents. They were running as high
3 years ago as 100 a year.
Now, in Vietnam, where you have a
guerrilla war situation, where the lines
are not so clearly drawn as to which side
is held by the PRG and which side is held
by the South Vietnamese, there will con-
tinue to be violations until the situation
becomes settled between the two sides.
What is important, however, is to note
that the number of violations, the intensity
of the fighting, has been reduced. It is not
zero yet. I doubt if it will become zero in
any time in the foreseeable future because
of the fact that a guerrilla war having been
fought for 25 years, off and on, is not
going to be ended by one agreement, not
in 1 month, not in 2 months, but the main
WAGE-PRICE GUIDELINES
[12.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask you
about the 5.5 percent wage settlement?
The leaders of labor seem to feel that that
5.5 percent ceiling is now more flexible
in Phase III than it was in Phase II, but
Secretary Shultz and the Director of the
Cost of Living Council, Mr. Dunlop, the
other day told us it is not more flexible,
that it is just as hard a ceiling as it was
before. Could you straighten this out for
us?
THE PRESIDENT. What we have here
as most important is not the 5.5, but the
bottom line, which is 2.5. Now on that
there is unanimity. The leaders of labor,
the leaders of management, this very
prestigious and powerful committee rep-
resenting strong elements in both areas,
agreed to the goal toward which we would
work in our wage-price discussions this
year, to achieve an inflation level at the
consumer level, retail level, of 2.5.
Now, in order to get to that level, it is
going to be necessary that wage demands
be within the ballpark which will reach
that level. As far as the wage guidelines are
concerned, and the price guidelines, the
same guidelines are in effect now as were
before January 11. However, what we
have done is to recognize what we found
in Phase II. In Phase II, actually the wage
settlements in all of the various settle-
ments, and I have examined them, a great
number of them, you had very few that
were 5.5. Some were as high as 7. Some
were as low as 3. But what mattered was
that in the end, the average worked out
158
