Appendix B
September
11 The President met with Representative
Trent Lott of Mississippi, who presented
the President with a stained-glass medal-
lion. The medallion was made from frag-
ments of glass collected by Mrs. Everett
Pease from the Church of the Redeemer in
Ocean Springs, Miss., which was hit by
Hurricane Camille in 1969.
11 Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem, met with the President at the White
House to discuss monetary and fiscal pol-
icy matters.
11 A bipartisan group of 95 Members of Con-
gress, headed by Representatives Ben B.
Blackburn and Dan H. Kuykendall, called
on the President at the White House to
express their support for him.
12 Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment James T. Lynn met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to discuss the
Administration's forthcoming housing pol-
icy proposals.
12 The President transmitted to the Senate
for advice and consent to ratification the
United States-Paraguay extradition treaty
and the protocol relating to an amendment
to Article 56 of the Convention on Inter-
national Civil Aviation.
13 Representatives Al Ullman and Herman T.
Schneebeli of the House Ways and Means
Committee met with the President at the
White House to discuss trade matters. Am-
bassador William R. Pearce, Deputy Spe-
cial Representative for Trade Negotiations,
also participated in the meeting.
14 The President met with Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development James T.
Lynn and a group of HUD assistant secre-
taries to thank them for their efforts in
preparing a housing study.
September
17 Senators John C. Stennis, Strom Thur-
mond, John G. Tower, and Henry M. Jack-
son, and Secretary of Defense James R.
Schlesinger met with the President at the
White House to discuss the military pro-
curement authorization bill and other de-
fense matters.
17 Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met with the President at the White House
to report on his recent trip to Tokyo where
he attended the first round of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade negotia-
tions. They also discussed the Secretary's
forthcoming trip to Nairobi to attend the
International Monetary Fund meetings.
19 The President opened a meeting on energy
and the environment being conducted by
John A. Love, Director of the Energy Policy
Office. The meeting, held in the Cabinet
Room at the White House, was attended by
the Governors of Florida, Kentucky, Vir-
ginia, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachu-
setts, and Pennsylvania, and representatives
of the Governors of California, New Jer-
sey, and New York. Secretary of the Inte-
rior Rogers C. B. Morton and Environmen-
tal Protection Administrator Russell E.
Train also participated in the meeting.
19 Walter H. Annenberg, United States Am-
bassador to the United Kingdom, met with
the President at the White House.
20 The President presented the Harmon In-
ternational Aviation Trophies to Geraldine
Cobb of Oklahoma; Lt. Col. Thomas B.
Est, USAF, of Kentucky; Lt. Col. Dewain
C. Vick, USAF, of Ohio; Andre Turcat of
France; and Brian Trubshaw of Great Bri-
tain. The award winners were accompanied
by Senator Barry Goldwater.
20 Richard Clayton, Jr., president of the
United States Jaycees, called on the Presi-
dent at the White House.
1081
