[45] Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
we had to make to achieve peace with
honor, to accomplish our goals, which I
set forth in my May 8 speech.¹
I would only suggest it is my convic-
tion, very strongly, that in the perspective
of history that many of our allies, particu-
larly, will look back and realize that had
we taken the easy way out, which we
could have done years ago, certainly
when I came into office in 1969, our
failure there would have eroded and pos-
sibly destroyed their confidence in the
United States and, of course, enormously
encouraged those who might have ag-
gressive intentions toward us.
NOTE: The President met with Gen. Andrew J.
¹ See 1972 volume, Item 147.
Goodpaster, USA, Supreme Allied Com-
mander, Europe, at 11 a.m. in the Oval Office
at the White House. This text is a portion of
their remarks based upon the notes of reporters
present during part of the meeting.
In other remarks, the President said that he
and General Goodpaster would be attending a
luncheon later in the day at the Pentagon with
the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretaries
of Defense, Army, Navy, and Air Force, where
he would receive a report from the Joint Chiefs
on the return of the POW's, the progress of
the Vietnam withdrawal, and the cease-fire
implementation. In addition, the President said
that the question of U.S. relations with Europe,
including mutual balanced force reductions and
the level of American forces stationed in Eu-
rope, would be discussed.
A portion of General Goodpaster's remarks in
response to the President's remarks is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 9, p. 154).
46 Remarks at the Mayport Naval Air Station, Florida.
February 16, 1973
I AM greatly appreciative of the fact that
you have all come out to welcome us on
this very special day for us, particularly
as I note that sign over there, "Thank
You For Bringing Our Boys Home."
I want to point out that, of course, the
responsibility of the President as Com-
mander in Chief is to make some of the
decisions that make possible our boys
coming home, and coming home with
peace with honor, which they have fought
for. But I also want to point out it
wouldn't have been possible without the
bravery and the service of those in the
Armed Forces, like the 4,500 men on the
Saratoga that is back here, and for what
they did.
We know it must have been a very long
and sometimes tiring assignment for you
to be 10 months on station out there, but
by what you did, by the service you ren-
dered, you helped make the great events
that we now are thankful for possible.
And I suppose sometimes particularly
your wives, your families, your loved ones
here at home, when they are apart from
you, wonder if it is all worthwhile. I know,
too, that during the 4 years that I have
had responsibility for decisions, people
around me have sometimes raised doubts
as to whether it is worthwhile. All those
questions for me, and I am sure for the
great majority of Americans, were an-
swered when Captain Denton stepped
up to that microphone, the first one to
set foot on Clark Field, and said that he
was proud to have served this country in
difficult times. He expressed his apprecia-
tion to the American people, and then
said, "God bless America." When any-
body can say that after 6½ years in prison,
it is all worthwhile.
104
