Richard Nixon, 1973
June 21 [181]
pens to be the 33d wedding anniversary
for Mrs. Nixon and me, and we appreci-
ate your arranging this dinner on this
occasion.
And, of course, as you know, all over
the world, June 21 is the longest day in
the year.
I remember just a little over a
year ago a very long day, almost as long
as the longest day in the year. Just before
midnight, Mr. General Secretary, you and
I signed the first agreement on limiting
nuclear arms in the Kremlin. To show
how our relations have moved forward
since that time, we signed the second
agreement with regard to limiting nuclear
arms at 12:30, in the middle of the day,
today.
And in addition to that, as you pointed
out in your remarks, we signed a parallel
agreement with regard to cooperation in
the field of the peaceful uses of atomic
energy.
You have spoken eloquently about
these two agreements. There is little I can
add except to say that all of us know that
this enormous source of nuclear power can
either destroy the world or it can build a
new world with the peaceful energy which
can be unleashed for the benefit of all
mankind.
Today we have taken a very important
step in limiting the power of destruction
and in unleashing the power of creation.
As idealistic men-and I know, Mr.
General Secretary, from our long talks in
Moscow and the talks we have had at
Camp David and here in Washington, we
both share the ideal of building a world
of peace—we are pleased with the progress
we have made so far in the agreements
that we have signed in limitation of nu-
clear arms. But as practical men—as we
are both practical men-we realize that
we have taken two steps, but there is still
a long way to go. We recognize that we
must dedicate ourselves toward going fur-
ther in not only limiting this great power
of destruction but also of eventually, we
trust, reducing the burden of arms which
bears down so heavily on the world and
on our two peoples.
This will not come easily. It will come
only after extensive negotiation. But with
continued contact, with continued dis-
cussion such as the kind of discussions that
we have had on this occasion and in Mos-
cow a year ago, we can move forward in
that direction between our two countries
and thereby set an example for other
countries in the world. And for that rea-
son, it is with a great deal of pleasure
that I accept the very generous invitation
you have extended for me to return to
Moscow next year for a third meeting.
In that third meeting I will, of course,
look forward to what will be my fifth
visit to the Soviet Union, to see more of
your country and to meet more of your
people. But also I shall look forward again
to the kind of discussions we have had on
this occasion and concrete results toward
the goal that we have dedicated ourselves
to jointly on this occasion-the goal of
not only better relations between our two
countries, not only peace between our two
countries, but recognizing the rights of
all countries, large and small, to live in a
world of peace without threat from any of
their neighbors.
It is this goal to which we are dedicated.
And if our two great countries can set an
example in this direction and have con-
crete results following it in the various
meetings that we will have, perhaps an-
nually, it means that a great step will be
taken toward the objective that we all
share.
I would not for one moment suggest to
603
