Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 14 [43]
These then are the basic principles
which should continue to guide all our
efforts in environment and natural re-
sources policy in the future.
First, we must strike a balance so that
the protection of our irreplaceable heri-
tage becomes as important as its use. The
price of economic growth need not and
will not be deterioration in the quality of
our lives and our surroundings.
Second, because there are no local or
State boundaries to the problems of our
environment, the Federal Government
must play an active, positive role. We can
and will set standards. We can and will
exercise leadership. We are providing
necessary funding support. And we will
provide encouragement and incentive for
others to help with the job. But Washing-
ton must not displace State and local
initiative. We shall expect the State and
local governments-along with the pri-
vate section-to play the central role in
this field.
Third, the costs of pollution should be
more fully met in the free marketplace,
not in the Federal budget. For example,
the price of pollution control devices for
automobiles should be borne by the owner
and the user, not by the general taxpayer.
People should not have to pay for pollu-
tion they do not cause.
Fourth, we must realize that each in-
dividual must take the responsibility for
looking after his own home and work-
place. These daily surroundings are the
environment where most Americans spend
most of their time. They reflect people's
pride in themselves and their considera-
tion for their communities. Your back-
yard is not the domain of the Federal
Government.
Finally, we must remain confident that
America's technological and economic
ingenuity will be equal to our environ-
mental challenges. We will not look upon
these challenges as insurmountable ob-
stacles. Instead, we shall convert the so-
called crisis of the environment into an
opportunity for unprecedented progress.
Now is the time to stop the handwring-
ing and roll up our sleeves and get on with
the job. Now is the time to reject the
doomsday mentality which says we are
destined to pollute ourselves out of
existence.
The advocates of defeatism warn us of
all that is wrong. I remind them and all
Americans of our genius for responsive
adaptability and our enormous reservoir
of spirit. The destiny of our land, the air
we breathe, the water we drink is not in
the mystical hands of an uncontrollable
agent, it is in our hands. A future which
brings the balancing of our resources—
preserving quality with quantity is a
future limited only by the boundaries of
our will to get the job done.
Each one of us has a personal stake in
the task ahead. The choice is always ours,
for better or for worse. Above all, we
need pride in this beautiful country of
ours, belief in our own strength and
resourcefulness.
One of the most memorable experiences
I have had as President occurred last year
during my visit to the People's Republic
of China when the Chinese Army Band
played "America the Beautiful." This song
of tribute to our Nation was also played
at my inauguration 4 years ago and again
this year.
No one will sing "America the Beauti-
ful" with greater feeling than our pris-
oners of war as they return home from
years of Communist captivity in Indo-
china.
America is a beautiful country. By our
93
