Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
conflict, to discard familiar techniques and
join in constructive enterprises, and to
rely on political competition and the forces
of history for the achievement of goals.
The economic assistance we propose in
concert with others, for the reconstruction
and development of the entire region
would help make this transition a reality.
To be effective it must include the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam. The rebuild-
ing of war-torn economies of former
enemies is a traditional policy of this coun-
try and served the goal of reconciliation
[in] the period after World War II. This
concept was first proposed for Indochina
by the previous Administration in 1965.
We have reaffirmed it on many occasions
during this Administration, including last
year's Report. It would be a sound invest-
ment in peace, providing avenues and in-
centives for an insulated and suspicious
country to engage in peaceful and co-
operative pursuits. It responds to humani-
tarian needs as well as to political and
psychological necessities.
We will pursue this program with deter-
mination. The funds required will not be
drawn from any domestic programs. As
we proceed, however, we will be guided by
two fundamental principles:
-We will observe Constitutional re-
quirements both in letter and spirit
and consult closely with the Congress
at every step of the way.
-We will not provide aid to the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam if it vio-
lates the Agreement. Hanoi cannot
expect to receive our economic as-
sistance while pursuing its goals
through military pressure.
We believe that the American people
and the Congress will agree to provide the
relatively modest amounts to help keep
the peace that ended such a long and
costly war.
South Vietnam. The Republic of Viet-
nam and the United States fought and
suffered together many years. We sup-
ported that government and its people in
their valiant efforts against aggression.
And we consulted closely with them
throughout the long, torturous road of
negotiations. We now look forward to
working together in peace as we did on
the battlefield and at the conference table.
The Republic of Vietnam will find us
a steady friend. We will continue to deal
with its government as the legitimate rep-
resentative of the South Vietnamese
people, while supporting efforts by the
South Vietnamese parties to achieve re-
conciliation and shape their political fu-
ture. We will provide replacement
military assistance within the terms of
the Agreement. We expect our friends to
observe the Agreement just as we will not
tolerate violations by the North Vietnam-
ese or its allies.
We will also continue to contribute
generously to South Vietnam's economic
rehabilitation and development. That
country is making a major effort to make
its economy self-sufficient, but the peace
agreement does not lessen its need for
substantial outside assistance. South Viet-
namese requirements will, in fact, increase
in the short term. The government's heavy
military budget will decline only slowly,
for it must maintain a vigilant defense
and support the total military responsibil-
ity created by the withdrawal of the
American and allied forces. Simultane-
ously, South Vietnam will bear the double
burden of creating new jobs for de-
mobilized personnel and of meeting mas-
sive expenditures for relief of refugees and
393
