Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 28 [96]
and cumulative drug law enforcement in-
telligence could be compiled. Patterns of
international and domestic illicit drug
production, distribution and sale could
be more directly compared and inter-
preted. Case-by-case drug law enforce-
ment activities could be more compre-
hensively linked, cross-referenced, and
coordinated into a single, organic enforce-
ment operation. In short, drug law en-
forcement officers would be able to spend
more time going after the traffickers and
less time coordinating with one another.
Such progress could be especially help-
ful on the international front. Narcotics
control action plans, developed under the
leadership of the Cabinet Committee on
International Narcotics Control, are now
being carried out by U.S. officials in co-
operation with host governments in 59
countries around the world. This wide-
ranging effort to cut off drug supplies
before they ever reach U.S. borders or
streets is just now beginning to bear fruit.
We can enhance its effectiveness, with
little disruption of ongoing enforcement
activities, by merging both the highly ef-
fective narcotics force of overseas Customs
agents and the rapidly developing inter-
national activities of the Bureau of Nar-
cotics and Dangerous Drugs into the Drug
Enforcement Administration. The new
agency would work closely with the Cabi-
net Committee under the active leader-
ship of the U.S. Ambassador in each
country where anti-drug programs are
underway.
Two years ago, when I established the
Special Action Office for Drug Abuse
Prevention within the Executive Office of
the President, we gained an organization
with the necessary resources, breadth, and
leadership capacity to begin dealing de-
cisively with the "demand" side of the
drug abuse problem-treatment and re-
habilitation for those who have been drug
victims, and preventive programs for po-
tential drug abusers. This year, by per-
mitting my reorganization proposals to
take effect, the Congress can help provide
a similar capability on the "supply" side.
The proposed Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration, working as a team with the
Special Action Office, would arm Ameri-
cans with a potent one-two punch to help
us fight back against the deadly menace
of drug abuse. I ask full Congressional
cooperation in its establishment.
IMPROVING PORT-OF-ENTRY INSPECTIONS
No heroin or cocaine is produced within
the United States; domestic availability
of these substances results solely from their
illegal importation. The careful and com-
plete inspection of all persons and goods
coming into the United States is there-
fore an integral part of effective Federal
drug law enforcement.
At the present time, however, Federal
responsibility for conducting port-of-entry
inspections is awkwardly divided among
several Cabinet departments. The prin-
cipal agencies involved are the Treasury
Department's Bureau of Customs, which
inspects goods, and the Justice Depart-
ment's Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which inspects persons and their
papers. The two utilize separate inspec-
tion procedures, hold differing views of
inspection priorities, and employ dis-
similar personnel management practices.
To reduce the possibility that illicit
drugs will escape detection at ports-of-
entry because of divided responsibility,
and to enhance the effectiveness of the
231
