Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
continue this relationship as our help is
wanted. We value our contacts with all
the small countries of the region-from
Bhutan to the Maldives.
Every country on the subcontinent has a
basic right to determine its own destiny
without interference or dominance by any
other. The United States places a high
value on this right, out of conviction and
out of our interest in a peaceful regional
system. Every major power-now includ-
ing India, with its new power in the
region—has a basic responsibility toward
the international system to exercise its
power with restraint, so that these smaller
nations may look to the future confident of
their security and independence.
AGENDA FOR THE FUTURE
When I visited South Asia in 1969, I
said, "I wish to communicate my govern-
ment's conviction that Asian hands must
shape the Asian future." This was not a
statement of lack of interest in South
Asia; it was, on the contrary, a recogni-
tion that America's relationship with Asia
would change and that our involvement
would require the increasing assumption
of responsibility for the Asian future by
the people of Asia. The United States role
would be one of assistance; we would
cooperate, but would not prescribe.
That was a time of significant progress
and hope in South Asia. In conditions of
peace, the gains from major economic
policy decisions and reforms during the
1960's in both India and Pakistan were
being consolidated. The full potential of
the Green Revolution was beginning to
be recognized and in some areas realized.
The concepts and practices of economic
development and population planning
were maturing.
Along with this progress, enormous
problems remained on the agenda, and
we discussed these at length in both India
and Pakistan during my visits: the need
for peace and normalization of relations
between India and Pakistan; the future
direction of Asia, of South Asian nations
in relation to the rest of Asia, and of the
United States, the Soviet Union, and the
People's Republic of China in relation to
them; the need for a new relationship be-
tween aid donor and aid recipient; and
the continuing efforts of governments to
meet the demands and aspirations of their
people for economic and social develop-
ment.
The crisis of 1971 interrupted and
enormously complicated these tasks—and
underlined their urgency. For the United
States the crisis of 1971 illustrated again
that we did not control the destiny of
South Asia but that we had an impor-
tant stake in it. The agenda for the future
is both the natural outgrowth of the
agenda we faced in 1969 and the legacy
of the upheaval of 1971.
The first responsibility for building the
future of South Asia rests on the leaders
and peoples of South Asian nations
themselves.
-To a unique degree, the political fu-
ture of the subcontinent depends on
the ability of institutions to meet
basic human needs-the needs of the
victims of drought, cyclone, flood,
war, disease, hunger, and unemploy-
ment. No particular political form
guarantees that these needs will be
met. What is important is the deter-
mination to build institutions that
can respond to human needs and give
diverse elements a stake in a larger
community.
-A precondition for the fulfillment of
459
