Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 14 [259]
258 Jewish High Holy Days Message.
September 14, 1973
WITH the coming of the High Holy Days,
Mrs. Nixon and I express our warmest
greetings to our fellow citizens of the Jew-
ish Faith.
This is a time of introspection and
spiritual self-renewal for Jews. But for all
Americans it is an occasion to remember
the essentially democratic theme of Juda-
ism: that the most exalted and the lowest
stand equal before God.
May the High Holy Days provide for
all of us an opportunity for renewed com-
mitment to the sacred principles upon
which our nation is established, and may
the conduct of our national life be a testa-
ment to the strength and vitality of those
principles in our personal lives.
RICHARD NIXON
259
Statement About the National Endowment for the Arts
and the Reappointment of Nancy Hanks as Chairman.
September 14, 1973
FOUR years ago I named Nancy Hanks
Chairman of the National Endowment
for the Arts. The subsequent contributions
of the endowment to the cultural enrich-
ment of our national life give abundant
testimony to the vitality and vision she
has brought to that post.
Today, a firm partnership exists be-
tween the Endowment and the cultural
agencies of the States. Early fears about
government domination of the arts have
been dispelled as the National Endow-
ment for the Arts has stimulated private
patronage at ever-increasing levels.
With the aid of Federal, State, and
private programs, hundreds of dancers,
musicians, poets, painters, sculptors, film-
makers, craftsmen, and actors are coming
into the classrooms and meeting halls of
our communities.
The Artists-in-the-Schools program,
now in operation in every State and special
jurisdiction, has added a new and vital
element in public education. The Ex-
pansion Arts program has brought recog-
nition and support to groups whose cul-
tural activities have been undervalued in
the past. Fellowships are available to
America's gifted individual artists. And,
in response to the Presidential directive
of May 16, 1972, the Endowment is in-
volved in an effort which, I hope, will
make the Federal Government a model
for the finest examples that our Nation
can offer in architecture and design.
The effect of these endeavors on the
quality of our national life reaffirms the
truth that art is not a luxury, but a neces-
sity to which all our citizens can and
should have access. More than ever be-
fore—and, in part, because of the work
of the Endowment-the American people
have now come to recognize how central
the arts are to the continued enrichment
of our lives, both individually and as a
nation.
As we look to the next 4 years, our con-
cern for the arts will focus increasingly
on the commemoration of America's Bi-
centennial. That occasion prompts us to
791
