[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
support of the Khmer forces, and hoped
that the North Vietnamese and the Khmer
insurgents would respond favorably. Un-
fortunately, then-and since-the Com-
munist side rebuffed this gesture and all
other efforts by the government to inau-
gurate contacts with a view to ending the
fighting.
Instead, Hanoi to date has chosen to
pursue its aggression in Cambodia. In-
deed, since the Vietnam and Laos settle-
ments, Communist military operations in
Cambodia have reached new levels. Wide-
spread attacks have continued, chiefly
against the important lines of communica-
tions and the population centers. In light
of this situation and at the request of the
Khmer Government, the United States
resumed the air operations in Cambodia
which we had suspended in an effort to
promote a ceasefire. The objective of our
assistance to Cambodia is the full imple-
mentation of the Vietnam Accords and an
end to the fighting in Cambodia which
threatens the peace in Vietnam.
The Cambodian Government has re-
peatedly declared its desire for a ceasefire
and prompt political negotiations. We are
prepared to halt our military activity in
Cambodia as soon as there is a ceasefire.
On the other hand, if Hanoi still pursues
aggression in Cambodia, we will continue
to provide the Khmer Republic with U.S.
air support and appropriate military as-
sistance. We will not introduce U.S.
ground forces into Cambodia.
The Cambodian situation is a serious
threat to the hard-won peace in Vietnam.
The only feasible solution is an end to the
conflict and direct negotiations among the
Cambodians themselves. We fully support
the efforts of the present government to
launch this process.
We call on North Vietnam to observe
its solemn pledges in the Vietnam Agree-
ment and to give the people of both Laos
and Cambodia the chance to live their
own lives.
PART III: STRENGTHENING
PARTNERSHIPS
-Europe and the Atlantic Alliance
-Japan
-Asia and the Pacific
-Latin America
EUROPE AND THE ATLANTIC ALLIANCE
The United States has regularly re-
newed its commitment to the flourishing
of trans-Atlantic unity with our oldest
and closest allies. I carried this message
to Europe immediately after taking office
in 1969. It is a central element of this
Report to the Congress, for no aspect of
U.S. foreign policy commands greater at-
tention and care than our relations with
Western Europe.
I have referred to 1973 as the year of
Europe, not because we regarded Europe
as less important in the past or because
we expect to overcome the problems of
the Atlantic Community in any single
year. This will be a year of Europe because
changes in the international environment,
and particularly in Europe, pose new
problems and new opportunities.
The alliance between the United States
and Western Europe has been a funda-
mental factor in the postwar era. It pro-
vided the essential security framework for
American engagement in Europe and for
Western defense. It created the political
confidence that allowed the countries of
Europe to recover from the devastation
of the war. It helped to reconcile former
enemies, a prerequisite for European
402
