[332] Nov. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Remember, I was there the time I met
the Emperor of Japan. The President is
always met with a few signs when he ar-
rives at a place, and in this case there
were quite a few signs, some friendly and
some unfriendly, but all, of course, in the
great American tradition.
There were a number of young people
there who said, "Don't build the Alaska
pipeline. Don't build it because it is go-
ing to spoil the environment in Alaska."
Now, we have looked into this prob-
lem. Rogers Morton and I had long talked
about it, and he has given me his assur-
ance that this is going to be built in a way
that is not going to despoil the environ-
ment.
What I mean to say is this: The goal
is not simply self-sufficiency for 1980 for
energy, using nuclear power, coal power,
shale oil, as well as gas and, of course,
our own oil resources, and anything else
that we may be able to develop in that
period-something nobody has ever
thought of perhaps may come along.
But the point is that by 1980 we want this
country to be one where we have all the
energy we need to create the jobs and to
heat our homes and to light them and
to move us along our highways or on our
railbeds, or whatever the case might be.
We want enough energy so that Amer-
ica is not dependent on any other coun-
try. But we want this to be a beautiful
country, and we can have both. So, it is
clean energy we are talking about.
That is why the research and develop-
ment effort, Scoop [Senator Jackson],
which you have supported so heavily and
so many of the rest of you, has to go for-
ward right along. It is clean energy and
enough of it in 1980 so that we are inde-
pendent of the world.
So, we thank you.
SENATOR PAUL J. FANNIN. Mr. Presi-
dent, we are moving forward on a bi-
partisan basis. But we certainly don't
want to mislead anyone that we are not
having our problems in getting some of
the programs carried forward that you
have advocated.
We are going to need your help and the
help of the members of your Administra-
tion to do exactly what you have stated
today and that is some relaxation as far
as EPA [Environmental Protection
Agency] is concerned, the utilization of
coal, and many other factors that are in-
volved, and without those programs, we
will not achieve the goal that you have
outlined.
THE PRESIDENT. We have to tackle, on
a short-range basis, the environmental
problem. I am sorry that it has to be done.
I am sorry, for example, that we are going
to have to continue to use coal when we
could use oil, which is a cleaner fuel. I
am sorry that we are going to ask some
companies that have converted to oil to
convert back to coal because we have
more of it.
But at this point, we have to have the
energy. That has to come first. As far as
the Environmental Protection Agency is
concerned, it will, of course, cooperate on
a short-term basis, having in mind that
in the long term, we can have both the
clean environment and enough energy.
So, having made my speech to you-I
made the same talk to a number of Con-
gressmen this morning-I simply want to
say that I think that for the Congress not
to act before its recess on those matters
that are urgent-I am not referring to
those things that are impossible,
Scoop
SENATOR JACKSON. I understand.
THE PRESIDENT.but on those mat-
944
