[106] Apr. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
expressed satisfaction with the develop-
ment of political institutions and noted
the political stability that has prevailed in
South Vietnam in recent years. President
Thieu reaffirmed his determination to as-
sure social and political justice for the
people of South Vietnam.
The two Presidents expressed their satis-
faction at the conclusion of the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Vietnam, as well as the Act of the
International Conference on Vietnam
which endorsed this Agreement. They as-
serted the determination of their two gov-
ernments to implement the provisions of
the Agreement scrupulously. They also af-
firmed their strong expectation that the
other parties signatory to the Agreement
would do the same in order to establish a
lasting peace in Vietnam. The two Presi-
dents expressed their appreciation to the
other members of the international com-
munity who helped in achieving the
Agreement and particularly to the four
member governments of the International
Commission of Control and Supervision
whose representatives are observing its
implementation. They consider that the
International Commission, acting in co-
operation with the Four Parties to the
Agreement, is an essential element in the
structure of restoring peace to Vietnam
and expressed their determination to fur-
ther encourage the most effective and ob-
jective possible supervision of the Agree-
ment.
President Nixon informed President
Thieu of his great interest in the meetings
between representatives of the two South
Vietnamese parties which are currently
taking place in France in an effort to
achieve an internal political settlement
in South Vietnam. President Thieu said
that his government is resolved at these
meetings to achieve a settlement which
will fully insure the right of self-determi-
nation by the South Vietnamese people
in accordance with the Agreement on
Ending the War. President Thieu ex-
pressed his earnest desire for a reconcilia-
tion among the South Vietnamese par-
ties which will fulfill the hopes of the
South Vietnamese people for peace, in-
dependence, and democracy.
Both Presidents, while acknowledging
that progress was being made toward
military and political settlements in South
Vietnam, nevertheless viewed with great
concern infiltrations of men and weapons
in sizeable numbers from North Vietnam
into South Vietnam in violation of the
Agreement on Ending the War, and con-
sidered that actions which would
threaten the basis of the Agreement would
call for appropriately vigorous reactions.
They expressed their conviction that all
the provisions of the Agreement, includ-
ing in particular those concerning mili-
tary forces and military supplies, must be
faithfully implemented if the cease-fire
is to be preserved and the prospects for
a peaceful settlement are to be assured.
President Nixon stated in this connection
that the United States views violations of
any provision of the Agreement with great
and continuing concern.
Both Presidents also agreed that there
could be lasting peace in Vietnam only
if there is peace in the neighboring coun-
tries. Accordingly they expressed their
earnest interest in the achievement of a
satisfactory implementation of the cease-
fire agreement reached in Laos on Feb-
ruary 21. They expressed their grave
concern at the fact that Article 20 of the
Agreement which calls for the uncondi-
tional withdrawal of all foreign forces
from Laos and Cambodia has not been
252
