Richard Nixon, 1973
June 13 [174]
60 days can decide the question of whether
we shall have a continuing inflation that
leads to a recession or whether we deal
responsibly with our present problems and
so go forward with a vigorous prosperity
and a swift return to a free market.
You can help, by giving your Senators
and Congressmen your support when they
make the difficult decisions to hold back
on unnecessary Government spending.
You can help, by saying no to those who
would impose a permanent system of con-
trols on this great, productive economy of
ours which is the wonder of the world.
Let there be no mistake: If our econ-
omy is to remain dynamic, we must never
slip into the temptation of imagining that
in the long run, controls can substitute for
a free economy or permit us to escape the
need for discipline in fiscal and monetary
policy. We must not let controls become a
narcotic; we must not become addicted.
There are all sorts of seemingly simple
gimmicks that would give the appearance
or offer the promise of controlling infla-
tion, but that would carry a dangerous
risk of bringing on a recession, and that
would not be effective in controlling in-
flation. Rigid, permanent controls always
look better on paper than they do in
practice.
We must never go down that road,
which would lead us to economic disaster.
We have a great deal to be thankful for
as Americans tonight. We are the best-
clothed, best-fed, best-housed people in
the world; we are the envy of every
nation in that respect. This year, for the
first time in 12 years, we are at peace in
Vietnam-and our courageous prisoners
of war have returned to their homes. This
year, for the first time in a generation,
no American is being drafted into the
Armed Forces. This year, we find our
prospects brighter than at any time in the
modern era for a lasting peace and for
the abundant prosperity such a peace can
make possible.
Next Monday, I will meet at the sum-
mit here in Washington with General
Secretary Brezhnev of the Soviet Union.
Based on the months of preparatory work
that has been done for this meeting, and
based on the extensive consultation and
correspondence we have had, much of it
quite recently, I can confidently predict
tonight that out of our meetings will come
major new progress toward reducing both
the burden of arms and the danger of war
and toward a better and more rewarding
relationship between the world's two most
powerful nations.
Today, in America, we have a magnifi-
cent opportunity. We hold the future—
our future-in our hands. By standing
together, by working together, by joining
in bold yet sensible policies to meet our
temporary problems without sacrificing
our lasting strengths, we can achieve what
America has not had since President
Eisenhower was in this office: full pros-
perity without war and without inflation.
This is a great goal, and working to-
gether, we can and we will achieve that
goal.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. His ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the address, a fact sheet,
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
program of price controls by Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz.
Prior to the address, the President met sepa-
rately with members of the Cabinet and the
bipartisan leadership of the Congress to dis-
cuss the contents of the address.
587
