Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
defense of Asia. In July 1969, I outlined at
Guam the main elements of this new
United States approach.
First, the United States will keep all
of its treaty commitments. We will adjust
the manner of our support for our allies to
new conditions, and we will base our ac-
tions on a realistic assessment of our in-
terests. But as a matter of principle, and
as a matter of preserving the stability of
Asia, we made it clear that the United
States would never repudiate its pledged
word nor betray an ally.
Second, we shall provide a shield if a
nuclear power threatens the freedom of a
nation allied with us or of a nation whose
survival we consider vital to our security.
Maintaining a balance of deterrence
among the major powers is the most
critical responsibility we bear. We have a
special obligation to protect non-nuclear
countries against nuclear blackmail and
to minimize their incentive to develop nu-
clear weapons of their own. Only the
United States can provide this shield in
Asia.
Third, in cases involving other types of
aggression we shall furnish military and
economic assistance when requested in
accordance with our treaty commitments.
But we shall look to the nation directly
threatened to assume the primary respon-
sibility for providing the manpower for its
defense. No nation, large or small, can
have any reasonable security unless it is
able to mobilize its people and resources
for its own defense. Without that kind of
national effort, external help cannot fill
the vacuum of local indifference against
any significant and prolonged threat.
Moreover, without a determined local
effort, it would be impossible to achieve
the kind of broad political support needed
in the United States to back another coun-
try in any sustained way.
The most important and most obvious
application of this new approach to secu-
rity cooperation was the Vietnamization
program which enabled the South Viet-
namese to assume the full burden of their
own defense. But the Nixon Doctrine has
been applied in other countries as well.
Japan is gradually expanding its capabil-
ity for conventional defense of its own ter-
ritory within its constitutional prohibition
against developing offensive forces. There
has been expanded joint use of military
base areas in Japan, and we are in the
process of consolidating many of our base
areas, particularly in and around metro-
politan Tokyo.
In 1971, we reached an agreement with
the Republic of Korea to assist in mod-
ernizing its armed forces. At the same
time, we reduced U.S. forces stationed in
Korea by one-third, bringing home more
than 20,000 men. Reduced Congressional
appropriations for military assistance in
the past two years have forced a slowdown
in this
program.
The Philippines have become increas-
ingly self-reliant. We have reduced the
number of facilities we maintain there and
reduced our forces by almost 13,000 men.
In all, in addition to the 550,000 men
who have returned from Vietnam, nearly
100,000 American military personnel and
dependents have come home from other
parts of Asia during this Administration.
The economic dimension of the Nixon
Doctrine recognizes that growing self-
reliance and confidence must rest on a
secure base of economic stability and
growth. We are providing technical and
financial resources to help friendly nations
cope with problems of security and eco-
429
