[58] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
The intention of this effort was laud-
able, but the results in case after case
amounted to dismal failure. The money
which left Washington in a seemingly in-
exhaustible flood was reduced to a mere
trickle by the time it had filtered through
all the layers of bureaucrats, consultants,
and social workers, and finally reached
those whom it was supposed to help. Too
much money has been going to those who
were supposed to help the needy and too
little to the needy themselves. Those who
make a profession out of poverty got fat,
the taxpayer got stuck with the bill, and
the disadvantaged themselves got little
but broken promises.
We must do better than this. The Amer-
ican people deserve compassion that
works-not simply compassion that means
well. They deserve programs that say yes
to human needs by saying no to pater-
nalism, social exploitation, and waste.
In order to bring our programs up to
this standard, we have carefully reviewed
each of them with three questions in
mind:
How can we reform the decisionmaking
process to bring it closer to the people
whom these decisions will affect?
How can we get more value and pro-
ductivity out of every tax dollar devoted
to human resources?
How can we reform our approach to
the delivery of services so as to give peo-
ple the assistance they need without tak-
ing away their freedom or decreasing their
self-reliance and their self-respect?
Here are some of the reforms we
propose:
To give the people served a better and
greater voice in education and manpower
training programs, we propose to convert
them from narrow, fragmented, categori-
cal programs closely controlled from
Washington into new special revenue
sharing programs which will provide Fed-
eral funds to be used within broad areas
as each State and community judges best
to meet its own special needs.
To make the Federal health care dollar
go further, we propose to eliminate pro-
grams whose job is done-such as hospital
construction subsidies which if continued
would only worsen the national oversup-
ply of hospital beds and further inflate
medical costs. The savings achieved would
help to make possible increases in other
areas such as over $100 million more
next year in cancer and heart disease
research.
To make the economic opportunity dol-
lar go further, we propose to transfer
most of the antipoverty programs now
conducted by the Office of Economic Op-
portunity into the appropriate Cabinet
departments, thereby making them more
efficient by linking them with other re-
lated Federal activities.
To ensure that all of our people are
provided with a decent income under cir-
cumstances that will increase human dig-
nity rather than eroding such basic values
as the family structure and the dignity
of work, we will work with the Congress
to improve the welfare system. A system
which penalizes a person for going to work
and rewards a person for going on welfare
is totally alien to the American tradition
of self-reliance and self-respect. That is
why reforming the present welfare system
has been, and will continue to be, one of
our major goals.
The overall effect of these reforms will
be the elimination of programs that are
wasteful so that we can concentrate on
programs that work. They will make pos-
130
