Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 14 [358]
and studies English in a Russian school
learns is the word "friendship.” That is
the first English word the Russian child
learns.
Now, I do not mean to suggest by that
that because a Russian child is taught,
when he first studies English, the word
"friendship" that it is inevitable that the
Russian people and the American people
are not going to have differences as far as
their governments are concerned, but I do
know this: We have had the great privi-
lege, Mrs. Nixon and I, of traveling to
most of the nations of the world, to the
nations of Africa, to the nations of Asia, to
China, to Russia, and I can tell you that
the people of the world want peace, the
people of the world want friendship, and
every American, I know, wants his coun-
try and his Government to take the lead
in building a world of
peace.
As this Christmas season begins, let
us just remember we do have some prob-
lems which we will overcome, but they are
the problems of peace. And we also have
a great challenge, the challenge of help-
ing to build a structure of peace that all
the 3 billion people in this world can
enjoy. What a wonderful achievement
that can be.
There are times, of course, when we
tire of the challenge. There are times
when we would not like to accept that
position of leadership, but let us remem-
ber that unless America, at this time in
history, accepts the responsibility to lead
for peace, we may not have it in the
world.
I think we can meet the challenge. I am
sure we will. And on this particular day,
in this year 1973, as we look at the begin-
ning of the year 1974, let us so conduct
ourselves as a people, let us so conduct
ourselves as a nation in our leadership to-
ward peace that in the years to come,
people, not only in America but all over
the world, will look back at what we have
done, will look back and say "God bless
America."
Thank you.
MR. JOHN W. DIXON (president, 1973
Christmas Pageant of Peace Committee).
Thank you, Mr. President, and thank
you, Mrs. Nixon, for being here.
Mr. President, on behalf of the Ameri-
can people, I would like to ask you to do
us the honor of lighting the National
Community Christmas Tree.
THE PRESIDENT. Now I would like to
suggest that this honor should be shared,
and who better to share it with but young
Americans, so if Tyna and Warren would
join me here, we will press this button
together and light the tree.
There! We got it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:45 p.m. at
the 1973 Christmas Pageant of Peace cere-
monies on the Ellipse near the White House.
His remarks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
The National Community Christmas Tree
was lighted with the help of Tyna A. Lee of the
Camp Fire Girls of America and Warren P.
Tilghman of the Boy Scouts of America.
In his opening words, the President referred
to Secretary of the Interior Rogers C. B. Mor-
ton.
1013
