[264] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
I am advised by the Secretary for Hous-
ing and Urban Development that one of
the existing construction programs-the
Section 23 program under which new
and existing housing is leased for low in-
come families can be administered in a
way which carries out some of the prin-
ciples of direct cash assistance. If admin-
istered in this way, this program could
also provide valuable information for us
to use in developing this new approach.
Accordingly, I am lifting the suspen-
sion of January 5 with respect to these
Section 23 programs. I am also directing
the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment to take whatever administra-
tive steps are available to him to elimi-
nate any abuses from such programs and
to bring them into line as closely as pos-
sible with the direct cash assistance ap-
proach.
Altogether, in order to meet bona fide
commitments requiring action during this
fiscal year and to carry out the Section 23
program, authorization has now been
given to process applications for an addi-
tional 200,000 units, 150,000 units of
which would be new construction.
IMPROVING THE OPERATION OF PRESENT
PUBLIC HOUSING
There was a time when the only con-
tinuing Federal expense connected with
public housing after it was built was pay-
ing the debts incurred in building it.
Other expenses were met from rental in-
come.
As time went on, however, laws were
passed making the Federal Government
liable for operating deficits. In recent
years, as the operating costs of public
housing projects has increased and as the
income level and rent payments of their
occupants have decreased, the cost of
such projects for the Federal Government
has gone up at an alarming rate. The
Federal bill for operating subsidies has
grown more than eightfold since 1969-
from $33 million annually to $280 million
annually and an additional $1 billion
has been obligated for capital improve-
ments.
Moreover, as efforts have been made
in recent years to prevent tenants from
paying too much of their incomes for
housing, some housing managements have
been persuaded that some tenants should
pay nothing at all. The Federal Govern-
ment then picks up a good part of tab,
adding considerably to the costs of main-
taining these projects.
This growing financial burden for the
Federal Government is only one of many
problems relating to public housing. Be-
cause the local housing authority is re-
sponsible for the management of public
housing projects while the Federal Gov-
ernment is responsible for project deficits,
including those due to poor management,
the local authority has little incentive to
improve management standards.
There are also indications that even
with improved management and a more
realistic approach to rents, current Fed-
eral subsidies may need to be adjusted to
provide for continued operation and
maintenance of these projects.
In view of these many problems, I have
asked the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development to develop a set of recom-
mendations addressing each of these prob-
lems. One of our goals will be to achieve
a more equitable sharing of responsibility
among the Federal Government, local
communities and residents.
810
