Richard Nixon, 1973
I
Mar. 1 [61]
portunity to draw on the enrichment and
renewal which cultural activity can pro-
vide in our national life. With this in
mind, my 1974 budget requests further
expansion of the funds for the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Human-
ities, to a new high of $168 million. I ask
continued full support from the Congress
for this funding.
SAYING YES
Carl Sandburg spoke volumes about
this country's past and future in three
simple words that became the title for one
of his greatest poems: "The People, Yes.”
America has risen to greatness because
again and again when the chips were
down, the American people have said
yes yes to the challenge of freedom, yes
to the dare of progress, and yes to the
hope of peace—even when defending the
peace has meant paying the price of war.
America's greatness will endure in the
future only if our institutions continually
rededicate themselves to saying yes to the
people-yes to human needs and aspira-
tions, yes to democracy and the consent
of the governed, yes to equal opportunity
and unlimited horizons of achievement for
every American.
1973 is a year full of opportunity for
great advances on this front. After more
than a decade of war, we have success-
fully completed one of the most unselfish
missions ever undertaken by one nation
in the defense of another. Now the coming
of
peace permits us to turn our attention
more fully to the works of compassion,
concern, and social betterment here at
home.
The seriousness of my commitment to
make the most of this opportunity is dem-
onstrated by the record level of funding
for human resource programs proposed in
our new budget-$125 billion in all—
nearly twice the amount that was being
spent on such programs when I took office
in 1969.
This is both a generous budget and a
reform budget. The reforms it proposes
will put muscle behind the generosity it
intends. The overall effect of these re-
forms will be the elimination of programs
that are wasteful so that we can concen-
trate on programs that work. They will
make possible the continued growth of
Federal efforts to meet human needs-
while at the same time helping to prevent
a runaway deficit that could lead to higher
taxes, higher prices, and higher interest
rates for all Americans.
The opportunity is ours, executive and
legislative branches together, to lead
America to a new standard of fairness, of
freedom, and of vitality within our fed-
eral system. We can forge a new approach
to human services in this country-an ap-
proach which will treat people as more
than mere statistics—an approach which
recognizes that problems like poverty and
unemployment, health care and the costs
of education are more than cold abstrac-
tions in a government file drawer.
We know how tough these problems are,
because many of us grew up with them
ourselves. But we also know that with the
right kind of help and the right kind of
spirit they can be overcome.
Let us give all our citizens the help they
need. But let us remember that each of
us also bears a basic obligation to help
himself and to help our fellowman, and
that no one else can assume that obliga-
147
