[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the common interest that our alliance has
served, and deeply committed to preserv-
ing it.
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Since V-E Day in 1945, nearly every
American killed in war has died in Asia.
That fact alone compels our attention and
our concern. But there are other vital facts
as well which dictate that the vast, chang-
ing, throbbing world of Asia will figure
importantly in our thoughts and policy
calculations as far ahead as any of us can
see. Asia is where half of mankind lives
and works and dies. What happens to that
half of the human race will have a pro-
found impact on the other half. Asia is
also that part of the world where devel-
oped and developing nations alike have
achieved the greatest levels of economic
growth in the past decade. That growing
economic power is having a profound in-
fluence on the lives of the people involved,
their neighbors, and the rest of the world.
The United States has been part of the
Asian world since we became involved in
the China trade in the early 19th Century,
and especially after the Spanish-American
War made the Philippines an American
responsibility. But after the Pacific phase
of World War II, our involvement in
Asia deepened enormously. Through bi-
lateral and multilateral arrangements, we
became the guarantor of the security of
many Asian nations-from Japan and
Korea around the rim of Asia to Thailand
and on southward to Australia and New
Zealand. We also became the principal
source of economic and military assist-
ance for many countries in the region. It is
against the background of this deep and
broad involvement that Asia today has
special meaning for most Americans.
But beyond this elaborate record, there
are other overriding reasons for our pres-
ent day concerns about Asia and its future.
We continue to have treaty obligations to
many Asian allies-promises to help as
much as we can to preserve their inde-
pendence and their right to live their own
lives in peace.
That network of alliances takes on spe-
cial meaning in light of Asia's special
significance on the world scene today.
Asia, and particularly Northeast Asia, is
the locus of interaction among four of the
five great power centers in our world.
China is the heartland of this vast region.
Siberia and the Far Eastern territories of
the Soviet Union spread across the north
of Asia from China to the Arctic, from
Europe to the Bering Strait. The islands of
Japan form a 2,000-mile crescent just off
the mainland, running from the frigid wa-
ters of the North Pacific to semi-tropical
Okinawa. The fourth major power of the
Pacific area is, of course, the United
States. The ways in which these powers
act and interact will, to a significant
degree, shape the future and determine
the stability of Asia. At the same time,
issues and developments within Asia will
play an important part in shaping overall
relationships among the major powers.
Failure to achieve the kind of recon-
ciliation toward which we have moved so
far in the past year could prove a mortal
blow to the structure of peace. That stark
reality is what makes the political evolu-
tion of Asia critically important to us and
to the world.
ASIA: AREA OF CHANGE
Last year I went to Peking, the first
American President to visit the People's
Republic of China. That visit began the
process of overcoming long years of antag-
426
