[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
suffering for the peoples of the area, the
danger of another war, and a threat to the
improvement of relations among the
major world powers.
Accordingly, we look to outside powers
to lend a moderating influence to the
affairs of Indochina. This means, first of
all, that there can be no reasonable justifi-
cation for sending Hanoi large arms ship-
ments now that there is a negotiated set-
tlement. North Vietnam certainly is not
threatened by its neighbors. A military
buildup would raise questions not only
about its intentions, but also about the
motivations of the suppliers. Restraint in
the North on this matter will be matched
by restraint in the South.
Beyond that, we believe that friends of
the Vietnamese belligerents can helpfully
underline to them the advantages of main-
taining the peace instead of rekindling the
war. This will be our approach. For there
cannot be a global structure of peace
while conflict persists in Indochina.
This is a complex and difficult agenda.
Unlike that of the last dozen years, our
role will not be dominant. But it will re-
main substantial and important. And it
will require both generosity and firmness,
both patience and vigilance.
America has those qualities and will
exercise them in the interest of peace in
the region.
LAOS AND CAMBODIA
There cannot be lasting peace in Viet-
nam until its neighbors are at peace.
As of this writing, the situation in both
Laos and Cambodia remains fluid. In
Laos, the parties reached a ceasefire settle-
ment in February 1973, but the framework
is fragile, and the Communists have de-
layed negotiations which were stipulated
in the Agreement to reach a definitive set-
tlement. In Cambodia, the Communists
have stepped up their military attacks
since the Vietnam and Laos ceasefires, re-
jecting both the Government's unilateral
military restraint and its call for negotia-
tions. In both countries, North Vietnam
continues to violate the past international
agreements to which it was a party. And
in both countries it is now violating the
Vietnam Agreement it signed in Janu-
ary 1973.
North Vietnam, as well as the other
parties to the Vietnam Agreement, has
unambiguous obligations with respect to
Laos and Cambodia. Article 20 of that
Agreement stipulates that:
-The parties participating in the Paris
Conference on Vietnam shall strictly
respect the 1954 Geneva Agreements
on Cambodia and the 1962 Geneva
Agreements on Laos, and shall re-
spect the neutrality of Cambodia and
Laos.
--They will undertake to refrain from
using the territory of Cambodia and
the territory of Laos to encroach on
the sovereignty and security of one
another and of other countries.
-Foreign countries shall put an end to
all military activities in Cambodia
and Laos, totally withdraw from and
refrain from reintroducing into these
two countries troops, military ad-
visers and military personnel, arma-
ments, munitions, and war materiel.
-The internal affairs of Cambodia and
Laos shall be settled by the people of
each of these countries without for-
eign interference.
-The problems existing between the
Indochinese countries shall be set-
tled by the Indochinese parties on the
basis of respect for each other's in-
396
