[79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
ceived favorable interpretation by the
courts, the law and the operative lan-
guage have been retained. In other areas,
such as pornography, there has been a
thorough revision to reassert the Federal
interest in protecting our citizens.
The reforms set forth in Parts One and
Two of the Code would be of little prac-
tical consequence without a more realistic
approach to those problems which arise
in the post-conviction phase of dealing
with Federal offenses.
For example, the penalty structure pre-
scribed in the present criminal Code is
riddled with inconsistencies and inade-
quacies. Title 18 alone provides 18 dif-
ferent terms of imprisonment and 14 dif-
ferent fines, often with no discernible
relationship between the possible term of
imprisonment and the possible levying of
a fine.
Part Three of the new Code classifies
offenses into 8 categories for purposes of
assessing and levying imprisonment and
fines. It brings the present structure into
line with current judgments as to the
seriousness of various offenses and with
the best opinions of penologists as [to] the
efficacy of specific penalties. In some in-
stances, more stringent sanctions are pro-
vided. For example, sentences for arson
are increased from 5 to 15 years. In other
cases penalties are reduced. For example,
impersonating a foreign official carries a
three year sentence, as opposed to the 10
year term originally prescribed.
To reduce the possibility of unwar-
ranted disparities in sentencing, the Code
establishes criteria for the imposition of
sentence. At the same time, it provides
for parole supervision after all prison
sentences, so that even hardened criminals
who serve their full prison terms will re-
ceive supervision following their release.
There are certain crimes reflecting such
a degree of hostility to society that a de-
cent regard for the common welfare re-
quires that a defendant convicted of those
crimes be removed from free society. For
this reason my proposed new Code pro-
vides mandatory minimum prison terms
for trafficking in hard narcotics; it pro-
vides mandatory minimum prison terms
for persons using dangerous weapons in
the execution of a crime; and it provides
mandatory minimum prison sentences for
those convicted as leaders of organized
crime.
The magnitude of the proposed revi-
sion of the Federal criminal Code will
require careful detailed consideration by
the Congress. I have no doubt this will be
time-consuming. There are, however, two
provisions in the Code which I feel re-
quire immediate enactment. I have thus
directed that provisions relating to the
death penalty and to heroin trafficking
also be transmitted as separate bills in
order that the Congress may act more
rapidly on these two measures.
DEATH PENALTY
The sharp reduction in the application
of the death penalty was a component of
the more permissive attitude toward crime
in the last decade.
I do not contend that the death penalty
is a panacea that will cure crime. Crime
is the product of a variety of different
circumstances--sometimes social, some-
times psychological-but it is committed
by human beings and at the point of com-
mission it is the product of that individ-
ual's motivation. If the incentive not to
commit crime is stronger than the in-
centive to commit it, then logic suggests
that crime will be reduced. It is in part
196
