[76] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
the possibility that their advice and as-
sistance will ever become a matter of pub-
lic debate, either during their tenure in
Government or at a later date. Otherwise,
the candor with which advice is rendered
and the quality of such assistance will
inevitably be compromised and weakened.
What is at stake, therefore, is not simply
a question of confidentiality but the in-
tegrity of the decisionmaking process at
the very highest levels of our Government.
The considerations I have just outlined
have been and must be recognized in other
fields, in and out of government. A law
clerk, for instance, is not subject to inter-
rogation about the factors or discussions
that preceded a decision of the judge.
For these reasons, just as I shall not in-
voke executive privilege lightly, I shall
also look to the Congress to continue this
proper tradition in asking for executive
branch testimony only from the officers
properly constituted to provide the infor-
mation sought, and only when the elicit-
ing of such testimony will serve a genuine
legislative purpose.
As I stated in my press conference on
January 31, the question of whether cir-
cumstances warrant the exercise of execu-
tive privilege should be determined on a
case-by-case basis. In making such de-
cisions, I shall rely on the following
guidelines:
1. In the case of a department or
agency, every official shall comply with a
reasonable request for an appearance be-
fore the Congress, provided that the per-
formance of the duties of his office will not
be seriously impaired thereby. If the
official believes that a Congressional re-
quest for a particular document or for
testimony on a particular point raises a
substantial question as to the need for
invoking executive privilege, he shall com-
ply with the procedures set forth in my
memorandum of March 24, 1969. Thus,
executive privilege will not be invoked
until the compelling need for its exercise
has been clearly demonstrated and the re-
quest has been approved first by the At-
torney General and then by the President.
2. A Cabinet officer or any other Gov-
ernment official who also holds a position
as a member of the President's personal
staff shall comply with any reasonable re-
quest to testify in his non-White House
capacity, provided that the performance
of his duties will not be seriously impaired
thereby. If the official believes that the
request raises a substantial question as to
the need for invoking executive privilege,
he shall comply with the procedures set
forth in my memorandum of March 24,
1969.
3. A member or former member of the
President's personal staff normally shall
follow the well-established precedent and
decline a request for a formal appearance
before a committee of the Congress. At the
same time, it will continue to be my policy
to provide all necessary and relevant in-
formation through informal contacts be-
tween my present staff and committees of
the Congress in ways which preserve in-
tact the constitutional separation of the
branches.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum to which
the statement refers was issued by the White
House on the same day and read as follows:
March 24, 1969
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Establishing a Procedure to Govern
Compliance With Congressional Demands
for Information
The policy of this Administration is to comply
to the fullest extent possible with Congressional
requests for information. While the Executive
186
