Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [165]
responded to the President's toast. The Presi-
dent then resumed speaking.]
Thank you very much. As a matter of
fact, when Colonel Flynn was speaking, I
heard that he had already made brigadier
general.
I also thought, after his very generous
remarks, that I should respond appropri-
ately, and so, Brigadier General Flynn, I
want you to know that with the authority
vested in me as Commander in Chief of
the Armed Forces, for the balance of this
evening you are a full general of the Army.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, we
come to the real reason that it was essen-
tial to bring you back and bring this war
to a conclusion before the end of this
year. The reason is that I made a promise
to Bob Hope.
Bob Hope told me, when he was in the
White House a few months ago this was
before we knew you were going to re-
turn-that he had spent the last 20 Christ-
mases outside of the United States, and
the last 12 of them in Vietnam, and he
said, "Mr. President, next Christmas I
would like to spend Christmas with
[Mrs.] Dolores [Hope] at home."
Bob, you are recognized.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House.
On May 22 and 24, 1973, the White House
released fact sheets on the dinner for the
POW's.
Brigadier General Flynn responded to the
President's toast as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Mr. Vice Presi-
dent, Mrs. Agnew, distinguished guests, fel-
low returnees and your lovely ladies:
I know that I have some sympathy from the
returnees, being sandwiched in between the
President of the United States and Bob Hope.
But, sir, in a more serious vein, I would like
to express our appreciation for being here.
We have often said that we were privileged
to serve our country under difficult circum-
stances. This evening, sir, we would like to
state that we are privileged indeed to be here
as your guests. We regret only that our com-
rades could not return with us.
Sir, I would like to state for all of us that
we never lost faith in your integrity or your
courage or the courage of our people in the
country or of our services.
I would like to state, too, that we do not
consider ourselves a unique group of men.
Rather, we are a random selection of fate. We
consider we are representative of what our
services produce today, but more importantly,
our services are drawn from a civilian com-
munity and we are proud to be citizens of
the United States.
Mr. President, concerning your decision on
December 18, I would like to assure you, sir,
that we knew you were in a very lonely posi-
tion. The decision was contested, but I would
like to also report to you that when we heard
heavy bombs impacting in Hanoi, we started
to go and pack our bags, because we knew we
were going home, and we were going home
with honor.
Now, sir, in recognition of your fortitude,
and your perseverance under fire, the re-
turnees would like to present to you a token
of our esteem to you, sir.
[At this point, a plaque was presented to the
President. Brigadier General Flynn then re-
sumed speaking.]
And finally, Mr. President and ladies and
gentlemen, we would like to demonstrate a
custom which was derived in Hanoi when
we had achieved communal living, that deals
with the toasts. This is the toast which was
given in each of the rooms within the Hanoi
prison.
Mr. Vice,¹ would you propose a toast,
please.
CAPT. HOWARD E. RUTLEDGE, USN. I
propose a toast to our most courageous Com-
mander in Chief, the President of the United
States.
¹In a servicewide tradition, the lowest-
ranking officer present at a dining-in or mess
night was usually designated its vice presi-
dent, "Mr. Vice," and was called upon at
some time to propose a toast.
565
