[92] Mar. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
and international. The Federal Govern-
ment recognizes this need-and has been
responsive to it.
I particularly commend to your atten-
tion the program of "Youthgrants in the
Humanities," begun in fiscal year 1972,
which provides needed support for young
people doing scholarly work in the hu-
manities. Another impressive effort is
the Endowment's State-Based Program,
which, in less than two years, has estab-
lished committees in 38 States to encour-
age public education. The "Jefferson
Lecture in the Humanities," aimed at
bridging the gap between humanistic
learning and public affairs, is also success-
fully underway.
The public's response to the work of the
National Endowment for the Humanities
may be measured in part by the fact that
public contributions to the Endowment
have exceeded federally appropriated
funds for the third year in a row. This is
clear evidence of broad public support for
the objectives of the National Endow-
ment and, I believe, gives added justifi-
cation to the steadily increasing funding
which I have requested and which the
Congress has provided for its very worth-
while endeavors.
The White House,
March 27, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 179-page report is entitled
"Seventh Annual Report, Fiscal Year 1972."
93 Message to the Congress Transmitting Summary
Report of the Water Resources of the Delmarva
March 27, 1973
Peninsula.
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit the enclosed
report, "Water Resources of the Del-
marva Peninsula, a Summary Report to
the Congress," by E. M. Cushing, I. H.
Kantrowitz, and K. R. Taylor, which was
prepared in compliance with Public Law
89-618 (S. 2287), October 4, 1966.
The Delmarva study was made in re-
sponse to the specific act cited above,
which was sponsored by Senator J. Caleb
Boggs of Delaware (S. 2287) and Secre-
tary of the Interior Rogers C. B. Morton
(H.R. 9922) who was a Representative
from Maryland in 1966. Public Law 89-
618 authorized and directed the Secre-
tary of the Interior to make a comprehen-
sive investigation of the water resources
of the Delmarva Peninsula. The principal
objective of the study was to determine
the availability of fresh-water supplies to
meet future needs of the peninsula area.
The summary report indicates that the
amount of fresh water that can be devel-
oped perennially on the peninsula is about
1,500 million gallons per day. This
amount is more than 10 times the use in
1970 and about six times the estimated
use of water on the peninsula by the year
2010.
In addition to this summary report to
the Congress, required by Public Law 89-
618, the Geological Survey plans to com-
pile and publish in 1973 a more detailed
report on the study for use by public and
private agencies and individuals. That re-
226
