Richard Nixon, 1973
July 1 [195]
inflation. In the short run, this policy
may have the effect of raising interest
rates. But it is better to have higher inter-
est rates for a while than it would be to
have more inflation and, as a consequence,
to have higher interest rates forever.
The object of our policies is not simply
to have low prices. We could have low
prices and nothing to buy at those prices.
The object is to have reasonable prices and
also an abundant supply of goods we can
buy. The object is to maintain a stable
prosperity at a sustainable rate of growth,
so that we can enjoy an increasing abun-
dance with job security. The object is to
manage the price and wage control system
forcefully, but with the goal of getting out
of the controls business, rather than get-
ting permanently enmeshed in it.
The road to full prosperity, without war
and without inflation-something that we
have not had in the United States since
President Eisenhower was President-is
not easy. All of us who have lived through
the
past 10 years know this very well. But
I believe that the American people are
determined to reach that goal. And I am
determined to use all the means of gov-
ernment to help us get there.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The address was recorded at the Western
White House, San Clemente, Calif., for broad-
cast at 12 noon on nationwide radio.
195 Statement on Signing the Second Supplemental and
Continuing Appropriations Bills. July 1, 1973
I HAVE today signed H.R. 9055, the sec-
ond supplemental appropriation for fiscal
year 1973, and H.J. Res. 636, the continu-
ing joint resolution.
Last week I was compelled to veto the
original supplemental bill because of my
grave concern that enactment of the rider
then attached to it, calling for an im-
mediate halt to all air activity over Cam-
bodia, would have led to a destructive
series of events. As I indicated then, such a
precipitous step would have crippled or
destroyed the chances for achieving a
negotiated settlement in Cambodia. The
stability of Southeast Asia would have
been threatened, and we would have suf-
fered a tragic setback in our efforts to
create a lasting structure of peace.
The conclusion of a responsible settle-
ment in Indochina has been and remains
a matter of the greatest urgency. All but
one of the major elements of that peace
are now in place, forged against the will
of a determined enemy by the sacrifice and
courage of countless men and women, by
our perseverance in protracted negotia-
tions, and by the effectiveness and the
deterrent of American military power.
The last remaining element of the peace
in Southeast Asia is a stable Cambodian
settlement. I believe that settlement can
be secured so long as we maintain reason-
able flexibility in our policies and essen-
tial air support is not withdrawn unilater-
ally while delicate negotiations are still
underway.
A sudden bombing halt, however,
would not have brought us the lasting
peace that we all desire. As President,
charged by our Constitution with respon-
sibility for conducting our foreign policy
and negotiating an end to our conflicts,
635
