Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 5 [351]
their respective economic policies.
President Nixon reaffirmed his commit-
ment to seek authority to provide most-
favored-nation tariff treatment for Ro-
mania in recognition of the importance of
this reciprocal principle as a factor in in-
ternational relations and in the devel-
opment and diversification of economic
relations between the two countries.
The two Presidents further noted that
Romania's accession to the General Agree-
ment on Tariff and Trade, and to mem-
bership in the International Monetary
Fund and to the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development were
positive steps in broadening its world-wide
economic and financial relations, and
have created favorable conditions for col-
laboration between representatives of both
countries within the framework of these
international organizations, with a view to
developing their economic cooperation.
The two Presidents welcomed the con-
clusion on the occasion of the visit of the
Agreement between the Chamber of Com-
merce of the United States and the So-
cialist Republic of Romania Chamber of
Commerce on setting up the Romanian-
U.S. Economic Council, the Convention
with Respect to Taxes on Income and
Property, the Agreement relating to Civil
Air Transport and the Agreement re-
garding Fisheries in the Western Region
of the Middle Atlantic Ocean as well as
specific conventions and understandings
among Romanian enterprises and eco-
nomic organizations and American firms
with regard to economic, industrial and
technological collaboration and coopera-
tion in the fields of machine-building,
electronics, chemicals and petrochemicals
and other fields of mutual interest.
They also noted that discussions re-
garding American bondholder claims
have been resumed.
In order to further the development of
economic relations between the United
States and Romania, the two Presidents
approved the following guidelines:
1. The two Governments will facilitate,
as appropriate, cooperation between in-
terested firms, companies and economic
organizations of the two countries with a
view to the realization of joint projects,
including joint manufacturing and mar-
keting ventures, in the fields of industry,
commerce, agriculture and natural re-
sources, and other fields of mutual interest.
Areas of particular interest for such
cooperation include machine-building,
electronic and electrical industries, energy,
metallurgy, mining and petroleum, chem-
icals and petrochemicals, light industry,
foods, telecommunications, building
materials, agriculture, and tourism.
2. Commercial and economic coopera-
tion transactions will be effected on the
basis of contractual arrangements between
firms, companies and economic organi-
zations of the two countries, and in ac-
cordance with the laws and regulations
in force in both countries. Such contracts
will generally be concluded on terms cus-
tomary in international practice.
Such contracts and arrangements may
encompass such matters as:
-construction of new industrial facili-
ties, as well as the expansion and
modernization of existing facilities;
-joint manufacturing and marketing
by means of joint ventures or other-
wise;
-licensing or patents and exchanges of
economic and technical information
on products, designs and technology,
subject to the laws and regulations in
ΙΟΟΙ
