[133] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
133 Statement Announcing Resignation of the Attorney
General and Members of the White House Staff,
and Intention To Nominate Elliot L. Richardson To
Be Attorney General. April 30, 1973
I HAVE TODAY received and accepted
the resignation of Richard G. Kleindienst
as Attorney General of the United States.
I am appointing Elliot L. Richardson to
succeed him as Attorney General and will
submit Mr. Richardson's name to the
Senate for confirmation immediately.
Mr. Kleindienst asked to be relieved as
Attorney General because he felt that he
could not appropriately continue as head
of the Justice Department now that it ap-
pears its investigation of the Watergate
and related cases may implicate indivi-
duals with whom he has had a close per-
sonal and professional association. In
making this decision, Mr. Kleindienst has
acted in accordance with the highest
standards of public service and legal
ethics. I am accepting his resignation with
regret and with deep appreciation for his
dedicated service to this Administration.
Pending Secretary Richardson's con-
firmation as Attorney General, I have
asked him to involve himself immediately
in the investigative process surrounding
the Watergate matter. As Attorney Gen-
eral, Mr. Richardson will assume full re-
sponsibility and authority for coordinating
all Federal agencies in uncovering the
whole truth about this matter and recom-
mending appropriate changes in the law
to prevent future campaign abuses of the
sort recently uncovered. He will have total
support from me in getting this job done.
In addition, I have today accepted the
resignations of two of my closest friends
and most trusted assistants in the White
House, H. R. Haldeman and John D.
Ehrlichman.
I know that their decision to resign was
difficult; my decision to accept it was dif-
ficult; but I respect and appreciate the
attitude that led them to it.
I emphasize that neither the submis-
sion nor the acceptance of their resigna-
tions at this time should be seen by any-
one as evidence of any wrongdoing by
either one. Such an assumption would be
both unfair and unfounded.
Throughout our association, each of
these men has demonstrated a spirit of
selflessness and dedication that I have
seldom seen equaled. Their contributions
to the work of this Administration have
been enormous. I greatly regret their de-
parture.
Finally, I have today requested and ac-
cepted the resignation of John W. Dean
III from his position on the White House
Staff as Counsel.
Effective immediately, Leonard Gar-
ment, Special Consultant to the President,
will take on additional duties as Counsel
to the President and will continue acting
in this capacity until a permanent succes-
sor to Mr. Dean is named. Mr. Garment
will represent the White House in all mat-
ters relating to the Watergate investiga-
tion and will report directly to me.
NOTE: The texts of the letters of resignation of
Richard G. Kleindienst, Attorney General, H.
R. Haldeman, Assistant to the President, and
John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Domestic Affairs, dated April 30, 1973.
326
