Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 2 [29]
most difficult periods in our history with-
out surrendering to despair and without
dishonoring our ideals as a people.
Looking back, there is a lesson in all
this for all of us. The lesson is one that
we sometimes had to learn the hard way
over the past few years. But we did learn
it. That lesson is that even potentially
destructive forces can be converted into
positive forces when we know how to
channel them, and when we use common
sense and common decency to create a
climate of mutual respect and goodwill.
By working together and harnessing the
forces of nature, Americans have un-
locked some of the great mysteries of the
universe.
Men have walked the surface of the
moon and soared to new heights of
discovery.
This same spirit of discovery is helping
us to conquer disease and suffering that
have plagued our own planet since the
dawn of time.
By working together with the leaders
of other nations, we have been able to
build a new hope for lasting peace-for a
structure of world order in which common
interest outweighs old animosities, and in
which a new generation of the human
family can grow up at peace in a chang-
ing world.
At home, we have learned that by
working together we can create prosperity
without fanning inflation; we can restore
order without weakening freedom.
THE CHALLENGES WE FACE
These first years of the 1970s have been
good years for America.
Our job-all of us together-is to make
1973 and the years to come even better
ones. I believe that we can. I believe that
we can make the years leading to our
Bicentennial the best four years in Ameri-
can history.
But we must never forget that nothing
worthwhile can be achieved without the
will to succeed and the strength to
sacrifice.
Hard decisions must be made, and we
must stick by them.
In the field of foreign policy, we must
remember that a strong America—an
America whose word is believed and
whose strength is respected-is essential
to continued peace and understanding
in the world. The peace with honor we
have achieved in Vietnam has strength-
ened this basic American credibility. We
must act in such a way in coming years
that this credibility will remain intact, and
with it, the world stability of which it is
so indispensable a part.
At home, we must reject the mistaken
notion-a notion that has dominated too
much of the public dialogue for too
long-that ever bigger Government is the
answer to every problem.
We have learned only too well that
heavy taxation and excessive Government
spending are not a cure-all. In too many
cases, instead of solving the problems they
were aimed at, they have merely placed
an ever heavier burden on the shoulders
of the American taxpayer, in the form of
higher taxes and a higher cost of living.
At the same time they have deceived our
people because many of the intended
beneficiaries received far less than was
promised, thus undermining public faith
in the effectiveness of Government as a
whole.
The time has come for us to draw the
line. The time has come for the respon-
sible leaders of both political parties to
take a stand against overgrown Govern-
75
