[153] May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
visited it twice-he is the acknowledged
leader of Africa, and the Organization of
African States, of course, is located in his
capital.
And so tonight, I could propose a toast
to him as the leader of Ethiopia, a country
that the United States is proud to have a
long and very, very friendly relationship
with over the years. I could propose a
toast to him as a great leader of Africa,
that continent with all of the promise that
it holds for the future. But tonight we are
privileged even beyond that, because in
our midst, here again in this house, being
honored more than any man who has
ever been in this house, is the senior
statesman of the world, and how privi-
leged we are to raise our glasses to the
senior statesman of the world, His Im-
perial Majesty, Haile Selassie.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:56 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, the President met with
Emperor Haile Selassie at the White House.
Emperor Selassie responded to the President's
toast in Amharic. His remarks were translated
by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon:
I wish to express very sincerely my apprecia-
tion for the generous hospitality you have ac-
corded us since our arrival in Washington and
for this most enjoyable evening you have ar-
ranged in our honor tonight.
I also wish to express my appreciation for
the very kind words you have said about the
leadership we have provided for our people
and the role we have played in the community
of African nations. Those sentiments, I must
add, reflect the generosity of the spirit that has
always characterized your disposition towards
us.
Having had the privilege to visit the United
States early in your first Administration, we
find this particularly gratifying that we should
have this opportunity once more to meet with
you and exchange views on matters of com-
mon interest at the beginning of your second
Administration.
The 4 years since we last met have seen
profound changes in international relations, es-
pecially in relations between the big powers.
True to the promise that you have given to
your country and the world, at the onset of
your first Administration, you have helped
launch an era of negotiation replacing the
dangerous threats of confrontation of
yesteryears.
Believing that the big powers should set an
example to the rest of the world, you have
traveled far and wide, to Peking, Moscow, and
the capitals of Eastern Europe in search of
new direction in international relations.
In renouncing the victory of arms for ne-
gotiated settlement, you have, Mr. President,
led your Nation away from war and on to
negotiation and peace.
Thanks to the wisdom of your leadership and
the persistence of your effort, there is today
a fresh breeze in the relations of the big powers.
This breeze has spread to all corners of the
world carrying the message of realism and
common interest.
Mr. President, your kind invitation has en-
abled us to share your views on recent devel-
opments in international relations. We have
valued today's exchange of views as we have
on several occasions in the past.
Because of the mutually beneficial coopera-
tion of long standing that has existed between
our two countries, we have also had ample
opportunity to review matters of bilateral in-
terest. These relations, covering a wide front
of our mutual interests, required that they be
sustained at increasing levels. Ethiopia has al-
ways appreciated the assistance she continues
to receive from the United States in many
spheres of national endeavors. Ethiopia is grati-
fied to know that she can always count on the
continuation of this assistance.
Distinguished guests, may I at this point ask
you to kindly join us in a toast to the health
and well-being of the President of the United
States, Richard Nixon, and Mrs. Nixon, and
of the continued prosperity of the great Ameri-
can people.
532
