Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 20 [337]
to avoid an American involvement in the
Middle East. All of these things he con-
tributed to.
And a monument must be built to
this man, must be left to him. We build
part of it today with this ceremony when
we honor him and the great law school,
the Walter George Law School.
He would not want a monument built
for himself to be there in Washington. I
don't know, I have never seen him on a
horse, I don't know how he would look
on that kind of a monument.
But next to his country, and next to
his State of Georgia, Carl Vinson loved
the Navy most. And so, I have an an-
nouncement to make today. I have dis-
cussed with Chairman John Stennis of
the Armed Services Committee of the Sen-
ate, and Congressman Ed Hébert-the
Congressman from Louisiana, the chair-
man of the Armed Services Committee of
the House and their counterparts, a pro-
posal, and they have given me permission,
because we must do this thing jointly, to
make this announcement today.
As
you know, we have just begun to de-
velop nuclear carriers. The first one was
named the Eisenhower, the second one
was named the Nimitz, the great naval
commander of World War II. The third
is just beginning, and it will be named the
Carl M. Vinson.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:14 p.m. in
Willingham Chapel at Mercer University.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the U.S.S. Vinson.
Dr. Rufus Carrollton Harris was president of
Mercer University.
337 Remarks on Arrival in Memphis, Tennessee.
November 20, 1973
THANK YOU very much. We want to
thank you for your very warm welcome
here to Memphis. When I got off the air-
plane just a few minutes ago, Congress-
man Dan Kuykendall pointed out the last
time I was here in Memphis in 1966 it
rained, and I suppose it is going to rain
again, but that is a good sign. We think
that means that here in this great Volun-
teer State, and here particularly in Mem-
phis, that we have a lot of good friends,
and we appreciate your coming out, even
though you expected some rain.
You saw Mrs. Nixon a moment ago,
and I know you need no introduction to
the others, but certainly you should see
the Governor and the First Lady of the
State of Tennessee-stand up here, Gov-
ernor Dunn-and your Congressman,
Dan Kuykendall.
Let me say that I am particularly happy
to see so many very young people here,
and as I speak to a group like this, I always
think of the future of ourselves, but your
future, too. And I think how much better
your future looks now than it did when I
came into office. I remember then that
there were 300 Americans being killed
every week in Vietnam. One of the men
over here spoke about it, and he said,
"Thank you for getting us that war over."
There he is, right there.
And I recall then that we had over
500 men who had been prisoners of war,
some of them as long as 5 years, and they
didn't get out until it was 8 years, and
I remember that 25,000 Americans every
month were being drafted for the armed
services. And I am very proud of the fact
that as a result of our policies, that Amer-
971
