[229] Aug. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
229 Letter to the Speaker of the House and the Majority
Leader of the Senate About the End of United States
Bombing in Cambodia. August 3, 1973
Dear Mr. Speaker:
By legislative action the Congress has
required an end to American bombing in
Cambodia on August 15th. The wording
of the Cambodian rider is unmistakable;
its intent is clear. The Congress has ex-
pressed its will in the form of law and
the Administration will obey that law.
I cannot do so, however, without stat-
ing my grave personal reservations con-
cerning the dangerous potential conse-
quences of this measure. I would be remiss
in my constitutional responsibilities if I
did not warn of the hazards that lie in
the path chosen by Congress.
Since entering office in January of
1969, I have worked ceaselessly to secure
an honorable peace in Southeast Asia.
Thanks to the support of the American
people and the gallantry of our fighting
men and allies, a ceasefire agreement in
Vietnam and a political settlement in
Laos have already been achieved. The at-
tainment of a settlement in Cambodia has
been the unremitting effort of this Admin-
istration, and we have had every confi-
dence of being able to achieve that goal.
With the passage of the Congressional act,
the incentive to negotiate a settlement in
Cambodia has been undermined, and Au-
gust 15 will accelerate this process.
This abandonment of a friend will have
a profound impact in other countries, such
as Thailand, which have relied on the
constancy and determination of the
United States, and I want the Congress
to be fully aware of the consequences of
its action. For my part, I assure America's
allies that this Administration will do
everything permitted by Congressional
action to achieve a lasting peace in Indo-
china. In particular, I want the brave
and beleaguered Cambodian people to
know that the end to the bombing in
Cambodia does not signal an abdication
of America's determination to work for a
lasting peace in Indochina. We will con-
tinue to provide all possible support per-
mitted under the law. We will continue
to work for a durable peace with all the
legal means at our disposal.
I can only hope that the North Viet-
namese will not draw the erroneous con-
clusion from this Congressional action
that they are free to launch a military
offensive in other areas in Indochina.
North Vietnam would be making a very
dangerous error if it mistook the cessation
of bombing in Cambodia for an invitation
to fresh aggression or further violations of
the Paris Agreements. The American peo-
ple would respond to such aggression with
appropriate action.
I have sent an identical letter to the
Majority Leader of the Senate.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the
House of Representatives, Washington, D.C
20515]
NOTE: On August 15, 1973, the White House
issued a statement by Deputy Press Secretary
Gerald L. Warren reviewing the termination of
United States combat activity in Cambodia
The statement is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents vol. 9,
p. 904).
686
