[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
being the world's second strongest nation
in the world.
For years now we have been engaged
in a long, painstaking process of negotiat-
ing mutual limits on strategic nuclear
arms. Historic agreements have already
been reached and others are in prospect.
Talks are also going forward this year
aimed at a mutual and balanced reduc-
tion of forces in Europe. But the point of
all these negotiations is this: if peace is
to be preserved the limitations and the re-
ductions must be mutual. What one side
is willing to give up for free, the other
side will not bargain for.
If America's peace and America's free-
dom are worth preserving, then they are
worth the cost of whatever level of mili-
tary strength it takes to preserve them.
We must not yield to the folly of breaching
that level and so undermining our hopes
and the world's hopes for a peaceful
future.
Although my military budget-meas-
ured in constant dollars-is down by al-
most one-third since 1968, the Congress
is now threatening further defense cuts
which would be the largest since 1949. To
take such unilateral action-without ex-
acting similar concessions from our adver-
saries could undermine the chances for
further mutual arms limitations or reduc-
tions. I will therefore actively oppose these
cuts.
The arms limitations agreement signed
with the Soviet Union last year has at last
halted the rapid growth in the numbers of
strategic weapons. Despite this concrete
achievement, much needs to be done to
ensure continued stability and to support
our negotiation of a permanent strategic
arms agreement. A vigorous research and
development program is essential to pro-
vide vital insurance that no adversary will
ever gain a decisive advantage through
technological breakthrough and that mas-
sive deployment expenditures will there-
fore not become necessary. Yet the Con-
gress is in the process of slashing research
and development funding below mini-
mum prudent levels, including elimination
of our cruise missile and air defense pro-
grams. The Trident and B-1 programs,
which are critical to maintaining a reliable
deterrent into the next decade, are also
facing proposals to cut them to the bone.
On top of this, the Senate has approved
a staggering and unacceptable cut of
156,000 men in our military manpower.
Such action would force us to reduce the
number of ships in our Navy while the
Soviet Union continues an unprecedented
naval buildup and to reduce the size of our
Army and Air Force while the Soviet
Union and the Chinese continue to main-
tain far larger forces.
In addition to these cuts, there is also a
major Senate proposal requiring substan-
tial unilateral troop withdrawals from
Europe, a mistake that could begin a seri-
ous unraveling of the NATO alliance. Ne-
gotiations for mutual and balanced force
reductions begin on October 30. On the
very eve of negotiations, the troop cuts
in Europe and the reduction in military
manpower would destroy our chances of
reaching an agreement with the Warsaw
Pact countries to reduce troop levels in
Europe on a mutual basis. If the Congress
were to succeed in making these proposed
cuts, the United States would be making
far-reaching concessions even before the
talks begin.
Cuts in other defense programs are
equally unacceptable. It is illogical to cut
America's capabilities at the very time the
Soviet Union increases hers. And it would
be difficult to stabilize delicate situations
784
