[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Despite all of the factors which con-
spire to hinder both the executive and the
legislative branches in being as objective
and analytical as we should be about the
soundness of activities that continue from
year to year supposedly in the public in-
terest, we can and must discipline our-
selves to take a larger view.
As we consider the subject of human
resources in this fourth section of my 1973
State of the Union Message, we must not
confine ourselves solely to a discussion of
the year past and the year ahead. Nor can
we be content to frame the choices we face
in strictly governmental and program-
matic terms-as though Federal money
and programs were the only variables that
mattered in meeting human needs.
FULFILLING THE AMERICAN DREAM
I am irrevocably committed, as Presi-
dents before me have been and as I know
each Member of the Congress is, to
fulfilling the American dream for all
Americans.
But I also believe deeply that in seeking
progress and reform we must neither
underestimate our society's present great-
ness, nor mistake the sources of that great-
ness. To do so would be to run a serious
risk of damaging, with unproven panaceas
applied in excessive haste and zeal, the
very institutions we seek to improve.
Let us begin then, by recognizing that
by almost any measure, life is better for
Americans in 1973 than ever before in our
history, and better than in any other
society of the world in this or any earlier
age.
No previous generation of our people
has ever enjoyed higher incomes, better
health and nutrition, longer life-expect-
ancy, or greater mobility and convenience
in their lives than we enjoy today. None
before us has had a better chance for
fulfillment and advancement in their
work, more leisure time and recreational
opportunities, more widespread access to
culture and the arts, or a higher level of
education and awareness of the world
around them. None has had greater access
to and control over the natural and hu-
man forces that shape their lives, or bet-
ter protection against suffering, inhuman-
ity, injustice, and discrimination. And
none has enjoyed greater freedom.
Secondly, let us recognize that the
American system which has brought us
so far so fast is not simply a system of
Government helping people. Rather it
is a system under which Government
helps people to help themselves and one
another.
The real miracles in raising millions out
of poverty, for example, have been per-
formed by the free-enterprise economy,
not by Government anti-poverty pro-
grams. The integration of one disadvan-
taged minority after another into the
American mainstream has been accom-
plished by the inherent responsiveness of
our political and social system, not by
quotas and coercion. The dramatic gains
in health and medical care have come
primarily through private medicine, not
from federally-operated systems.
Even where the public sector has played
a major role, as in education, the great
strength of the system has derived from
State and local governments' primacy and
from the diverse mixture of private and
public institutions in the educational
process-both factors which have facili-
tated grassroots influence and popular
participation.
We should not tamper lightly, then,
with the delicately balanced social, eco-
134
