[6] Jan. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
system of controls which has been in effect
since 1971 has helped considerably in im-
proving the health of our economy. I am
today submitting to the Congress legisla-
tion which would extend for another
year-until April 30 of 1974-the basic
legislation on which that system is based,
the Economic Stabilization Act.
But even while we recognize the need
for continued Government restraints on
prices and wages, we also look to the day
when we can enjoy the advantages of
price stability without the disadvantages
of such restraints. I believe we can pre-
pare for that day, and hasten its coming,
by modifying the present system so that it
relies to a greater extent on the voluntary
cooperation of the private sector in mak-
ing reasonable price and wage decisions.
Under Phase III, prior approval by the
Federal Government will not be required
for changes in wages and prices, except
in special problem areas. The Federal
Government, with the advice of manage-
ment and labor, will develop standards
to guide private conduct which will be
self-administering. This means that busi-
nesses and workers will be able to deter-
mine for themselves the conduct that
conforms to the standards. Initially and
generally we shall rely upon the voluntary
cooperation of the private sector for rea-
sonable observance of the standards. How-
ever, the Federal Government will retain
the power-and the responsibility to step
in and stop action that would be incon-
sistent with our anti-inflation goals. I have
established as the overall goal of this pro-
gram a further reduction in the inflation
rate to 22 percent or less by the end of
1973-
Under this program, much of the Fed-
eral machinery which worked so well dur-
ing Phase I and Phase II can be elimi-
nated, including the Price Commission,
the Pay Board, the Committee on the
Health Services Industry, the Committee
on State and Local Government Coopera-
tion, and the Rent Advisory Board. Those
who served so ably as members of these
panels and their staffs-especially Judge
George H. Boldt, Chairman of the Pay
Board, and C. Jackson Grayson, Jr.,
Chairman of the Price Commission-
have my deep appreciation and that of
their countrymen for their devoted and
effective contributions.
This new program will be administered
by the Cost of Living Council. The Coun-
cil's new Director will be John T. Dunlop.
Dr. Dunlop succeeds Donald Rumsfeld
who leaves this post with the Nation's
deepest gratitude for a job well done.
Under our new program, special efforts
will be made to combat inflation in areas
where rising prices have been particularly
troublesome, especially in fighting rising
food prices. Our anti-inflation program
will not be fully successful until its impact
is felt at the local supermarket or corner
grocery store.
I am therefore directing that our cur-
rent mandatory wage and price control
system be continued with special vigor for
firms involved in food processing and food
retailing. I am also establishing a new
committee to review Government policies
which affect food prices and a non-
Government advisory group to examine
other ways of achieving price stability in
food markets. I will ask this advisory
group to give special attention to new
ways of cutting costs and improving pro-
ductivity at all points along the food pro-
duction, processing and distribution chain.
In addition, the Department of Agricul-
ture and the Cost of Living Council
yesterday and today announced a number
10
