Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 24 [271]
power is the most critical input to our
Defense posture and should not be re-
duced below current levels, which are
already the lowest in 23 years.
An adequate defense must not become
a partisan issue. A strong and ready mili-
tary force is an asset to all Americans and
supports all of their interests. Therefore,
the Congress and the Executive Branch
must work together to provide the funds,
the manpower and the leadership needed
271
to assure this capability. I ask for your
support in this most critical effort.
I am sending similar letters to Mike
Mansfield and John Stennis.
With best regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Hugh Scott, Minority Leader,
United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated Septem-
ber 20, 1973, was released September 22.
Statement About the Report of the Advisory Panel on
Timber and the Environment. September 24, 1973
I HAVE received today the findings and
recommendations of my Advisory Panel
on Timber and the Environment. This
group of qualified, prominent citizens has
studied the entire range of timber man-
agement problems in our country and has
provided valuable advice on increasing
the Nation's supply of timber to meet our
growing housing needs while protecting
and enhancing the quality of our environ-
ment. Its report, which at my direction.
has also been delivered to the Secretary of
Agriculture and the Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, is now
available.
The members of this Panel are to be
highly commended for their thorough and
wide-ranging analysis of forestry and envi-
ronmental problems and opportunities.
This report is the result of 2 years of study
and investigation under the capable lead-
ership of Chairman Fred A. Seaton.
The Panel estimates that our national
forests contain 52 percent of the Nation's
softwood sawtimber inventory. Much of
this land is overstocked with mature and
overmature timber. As a result, the annual
growth per acre in our national forests is
less than half of that found on other com-
mercial forest lands. According to the
Panel, the main forestry issue facing us in
the next several decades is the rate at
which this old-growth timber in the na-
tional forests is converted to new, well-
managed stands of trees.
To meet our current and future needs
for lumber, the Panel recommends that
timber sales from national forests be raised
to and maintained at allowable harvest
levels wherever market demand is suffi-
cient and so long as adequate funding is
made available. This is an objective with
which the Forest Service concurs, and I
endorse it. The Panel further recommends
that allowable cut determination policies
be reviewed and revised to allow timber
output from the national forests more ade-
quately to serve our national timber supply
needs.
After a careful review of scientific find-
ings, the Panel has determined that most
of the damage caused by logging opera-
tions can be avoided or minimized. Based
on the findings of this report, fears of
permanent or widespread environmental
damage due to timber harvesting would
821
