[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
L. Lewine, Associated Press] has the first
question.
Q. Mr. President, on Watergate, you
have said that disclosure of the tapes
could jeopardize and cripple the func-
tions of the Presidency. Two questions: If
disclosure carries such a risk, why did you
make the tapes in the first place, and
what is your reaction to surveys that show
three out of four Americans believe you
were wrong to make the tapes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, with regard to
the questions as to why Americans feel
we were wrong to make the tapes, that is
not particularly surprising. I think that
most Americans do not like the idea of
the taping of conversations, and frankly,
it is not something that particularly
appeals to me.
As a matter of fact, that is why, when
I arrived in the White House and saw this
rather complex situation set up where
there was a taping capacity, not only in
the President's office, the room outside of
his office, but also in the Cabinet Room
and at Camp David and in other areas,
that I had the entire system dismantled.
It was put into place again in June of
1970 (1971), because my advisers felt it
was important in terms particularly of na-
tional security affairs to have a record for
future years that would be an accurate
one, but a record which would only be
disclosed at the discretion of the Presi-
dent or according to directives that he
would set forth.
As you know, of course, this kind of
capability not only existed during the
Johnson Administration, it also existed
in the Kennedy Administration, and I
can see why both President Johnson and
President Kennedy did have the capability
because not because they wanted to in-
fringe upon the privacy of anybody, but
because they felt that they had some obli-
gation, particularly in the field of foreign
policy and some domestic areas, to have
a record that would be accurate.
As far as I am concerned, we now do
not have that capability, and I am just
as happy that we don't. As a matter of
fact, I have a practice, whenever I am not
too tired at night, of dictating my own
recollections of the day. I think that, per-
haps, will be the more accurate record of
history in the end.
THE WATERGATE INVESTIGATION
[3] I think we go to the UP now, and
then we will come to the television.
Q. Mr. President, on July 6, 1972, you
were warned by Patrick Gray that you
were being mortally wounded by some of
your top aides. Can you explain why you
did not ask who they were, why, what
was going on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the telephone
conversation that you refer to that has
been, of course, quite widely reported in
the press as well as on television, Mr.
Gray said that he was concerned that as
far as the investigation that he had re-
sponsibility for, that some of my top aides
were not cooperating.
Whether the term was used as "mor-
tally wounded" or not, I don't know. Some
believe that it was, some believe that it
was not, that is irrelevant. He could have
said that.
The main point was, however, I asked
him whether or not he had discussed this
matter with General Walters,' because I
knew that there had been meetings be-
tween General Walters, representing the
CIA, to be sure that the CIA did not be-
Lt. Gen. Vernon A. Walters, USA, Deputy
Director, Central Intelligence Agency.
712
