[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
readiness while national conscription
may be eliminated or the terms of
service reduced.
-In these circumstances, it is essential
to define more precisely what we
mean by an adequate NATO defense.
Specifically, what do we mean by
forward defense? Should we plan for
maximum effort during some initial
period of combat? Should we plan for
a sustained effort over a longer pe-
riod? If so, for what purpose? Can
we maintain the logistical support for
a sustained defense?
-If we can maintain the high level of
conventional defense that is our goal,
we still must examine our nuclear
doctrines. When, in what way, and
for what objective should we use
tactical nuclear weapons? How do
independent national nuclear forces
affect Alliance decisions? Do we re-
quire different institutions to examine
such overriding issues within the
Alliance?
-What is the relationship between
existing and planned defense pro-
grams and the diplomatic effort to
reduce forces?
The answers to these questions are vital
to Alliance policy in the 1970's. They re-
quire urgent but careful consideration.
The United States believes that a strong
conventional defense is essential to credi-
ble deterrence and that the Alliance must
also possess a credible nuclear deterrent.
But in the strategic conditions of this
decade these issues must be reexamined,
and the contribution of each ally deter-
mined for the long term.
In particular, the prospect of mutual
and balanced force reductions in Central
Europe raises some immediate questions
for the Alliance. Mutual force reductions
are first of all a military problem: specific
reductions must be measured against their
effect on our defense capabilities. We
therefore need a common security concept
within which we can contemplate some re-
ductions. If we justify force reductions as
part of a political accommodation, or as a
means to promote détente, the Alliance
will be involved in endless debate over
what level of reductions will produce what
degree of political relaxation. In such a
debate, it would be almost impossible to
find an answer that would satisfy everyone
and that would not undermine security.
Our objective should be to create a
military balance that is more viable be-
cause it deals with the concerns of both
sides and is seen by all to be in the com-
mon interest. We want a greater degree of
stability, in which neither side gains an
advantage because of lower force levels.
The Alliance should thus proceed on
three parallel courses: first, to continue
the effort to bring our forces to the level
and quality required by the doctrine of
flexible response; second, to review the
strategic options involved in conducting a
nuclear defense if necessary; and third,
to prepare within the Alliance a military-
political framework that integrates de-
fense planning with the diplomacy of ne-
gotiating mutual and balanced force
reductions.
Alliance Diplomacy. Through most of
the 1960's, the problem of reconciling
allied unity with national diplomacy was
not critical. East-West relations were vir-
tually frozen. Confrontation required less
in the way of creative initiative, but put a
premium on allied unity.
This broad cohesion and strength of the
Alliance contributed to the changing in-
ternational conditions that in turn offered
410
