Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 22 [87]
more accessible. Approximately 850,000
young people will benefit from federally
financed transportation services concen-
trated in the Nation's largest cities. In
another important effort-one that is also
expanding this summer-the summer nu-
trition program will serve some 128 mil-
lion meals to nearly 2 million needy young
Americans.
Our Nation's youth are our most valu-
able natural resource. Each of these sum-
mer programs will enrich their lives and
help develop their potential as well-round-
ed human beings and as good citizens. I
pledge the fullest possible cooperation of
the Federal Government to help make the
summer of 1973 a great summer for all of
our young people.
And I urge the American people to
give their fullest cooperation and support
to all of these efforts.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
programs by Kenneth R. Cole, Jr., Executive
Director of the Domestic Council.
86 Remarks During a Meeting
Women's Gymnastic Team.
WHILE WE are having the picture
taken, I want to congratulate this won-
derful team for their performance in the
Olympics and also for the great reception
they have had in the United States.
As I watched the Olympics on televi-
sion, I noticed that you all had the capabil-
ity of always landing on your feet. That is
why your visit to Washington is particu-
larly appropriate, because all of the poli-
ticians here try to land on their feet,
sometimes without success.
Most important, I want you to know
that we welcome you not simply because
of your athletic achievements but because
you represent the youth of your country.
In my talks with your leaders last June,
With the U.S.S.R.
March 21, 1973
and in the talks I will have later this year
with Mr. Brezhnev, when he is here, we
will be talking about the present, of
course, the relations between the U.S.
and the U.S.S.R. But what we will be
talking about most of all is the future, the
young people of America, the young peo-
ple of the Soviet Union, and of all the
world. We want it to be a peaceful future.
Whatever the differences between lead-
ers may be, we think that the young people
of the world can live with mir i druzhba
[peace and friendship].
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
The 11-member team was in Washington for
a performance at the University of Maryland,
College Park, Md.
87 Message to the Senate Transmitting Amendments to
the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966.
March 22, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to acceptance of the
Amendments to the International Con-
vention on Load Lines, 1966, adopted at
London on October 12, 1971, I transmit
217
