[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Perfectly clear. But is there any
way that you could have some group listen
to tapes and give a report so that that
might satisfy the public mind?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe, first,
it would satisfy the public mind, and it
should not. The second point is that as
Mr. Wright, who argued the case, I un-
derstand very well, before Judge Sirica
this morning, has indicated, to have the
tapes listened to he indicated this also in
his brief either by a prosecutor or by
a judge or in camera or in any way,
would violate the principle of confiden-
tiality, and I believe he is correct. That
is why we are standing firm on the prop-
osition that we will not agree to the Sen-
ate committee's desire to have, for ex-
ample, its chief investigator listen to the
tapes, or the Special Prosecutor's desire
to hear the tapes, and also why we will
oppose, as Mr. Wright did in his argu-
ment this morning, any compromise of
the principle of confidentiality.
Let me explain very carefully that the
principle of confidentiality either exists
or it does not exist. Once it is compro-
mised, once it is known that a conversa-
tion that is held with the President can
be subject to a subpoena by a Senate
committee, by a grand jury, by a prose-
cutor, and be listened to by anyone, the
principle of confidentiality is thereby ir-
reparably damaged. Incidentally, let me
say that now that tapes are no longer
Charles Alan Wright, consultant to the
Counsel to the President.
'On August 7, and on August 17, briefs
responding to the grand jury subpoena requir-
ing production of Presidential tape recordings
and documents were filed in the US. District
Court for the District of Columbia by attorneys
for the President The texts of the briefs are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents vol 9. pp 961 and 999
being made. I suppose it could be argued
that, what difference does it make now,
now that these tapes are also in the past.
What is involved here is not only the
tapes; what is involved, as you ladies and
gentlemen well know, is the request on
the part of the Senate committee, and
the Special Prosecutor as well, that we
turn over Presidential papers in other
words, the records of conversations with
the President made by his associates. Those
papers, and the tapes as well, cannot be
turned over without breaching the prin-
ciple of confidentiality. It was President
Truman that made that argument very
effectively in his letter to a Senate com-
mittee or his response to a Congres-
sional committee, a House committee it
was, in 1953-when they asked him to
turn over his papers. So, whether it is a
paper or whether it is a tape, what we
have to bear in mind is that for a Presi-
dent to conduct the affairs of this office
and conduct them effectively, he must be
able to do so with the principle of con-
fidentiality intact. Otherwise, the indi-
viduals who come to talk to him, whether
it is his advisers, or whether it is visitor
in the domestic field, or whether it is some-
one in a foreign field, will always be speak-
ing in a eunuch-like way, rather than
laying it on the line, as it has to be laid on
the line if you are going to have the crea-
tive kind of discussion that we have often
had, and it has been responsible for some
of our successes in the foreign policy pe-
riod, particularly in the past few years.
ADMINISTRATION PARTICIPANTS IN THE
INVESTIGATION
(6) Q. Mr. President, could you tell
us who you personally talked to in direct-
ing that investigations be made both in
714
