[302] Oct. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
opments open vast opportunities for long-
term mutual economic benefit and for the
advancement of world peace through the
reduction of political tensions. I again
urge the Congress, in considering my re-
quest for authority to grant normal tariff
treatment to these countries, to work with
me in framing an authority which pre-
serves these gains.
While we may justifiably be encouraged
by our achievements in trade and mone-
tary negotiations since 1971 and by the
reversal of the downward trend in our
merchandise trade balance, we must not
underestimate the magnitude and com-
plexity of the tasks ahead. The multilat-
eral trade negotiations which have just
been opened are a fundamental building
block in the foundation of a new world
politico-economic structure. The stakes
are thus high and the bargaining will be
intense.
To realize our objectives in the trade
field, I sent to the Congress last April
proposals for new legislation entitled the
Trade Reform Act of 1973. In my state-
ment of October 4, I expressed my views
on the bill which was approved by the
House Ways and Means Committee. As
legislative deliberation continues, I look
forward to working with the Congress on
this bill in a spirit of constructive part-
nership.
The profound changes which have
taken place in the world economy and the
impact of growing economic interde-
pendence on political relations among na-
tions is now clearly recognized. While
formidable problems exist in the trade
area and while countries still differ widely
on some of the important issues, the will
now exists to negotiate the necessary far-
reaching changes instead of resorting to
confrontation or retaliatory measures
which generate political frictions. We, like
other nations, will be hard bargainers, but
with a shared spirit of mutual commit-
ment to a more open and equitable trad-
ing system, the entire world can progress
toward a new era of economic well-being
and peaceful international relations.
The White House,
October 17, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 53-page report is entitled "Seven-
teenth Annual Report of the President of the
United States on the Trade Agreements Pro-
gram—1972."
303 Special Message to the Congress Requesting
Emergency Security Assistance Funding for Israel
and Cambodia. October 19, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today requesting that the Congress
authorize emergency security assistance of
$2.2 billion for Israel and $200 million for
Cambodia. This request is necessary to
permit the United States to follow a re-
sponsible course of action in two areas
where stability is vital if we are to build
a global structure of peace.
For more than a quarter of a century,
as strategic interests of the major powers
have converged there, the Middle East
has been a flashpoint for potential world
conflict. Since war broke out again on
October 6, bringing tragedy to the people
of Israel and the Arab nations alike, the
United States has been actively engaged
in efforts to contribute to a settlement.
884
