[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
importance of maintaining other deterrent
forces capable of coping with a variety
of challenges.
In recent years conventional forces
have played a critical role in numerous
conflicts involving great power interests,
including Arab-Israeli and Jordanian-
Syrian fighting in the Middle East; the
India-Pakistan war; and the North Viet-
namese invasion of Laos, Cambodia, and
South Vietnam.
The United States cannot protect its
national interests, or support those of its
allies, or meet its responsibilities for help-
ing safeguard international peace, without
the ability to deploy forces abroad. In
the Jordan crisis of 1970, for example,
our forces helped stabilize an explosive
situation. When warnings went unheeded
and the North Vietnamese launched an
all-out invasion of the South in the spring
of 1972, our determination to act de-
cisively with conventional forces was
tested. The bombing and mining of North
Vietnam complemented the defensive ac-
tion of our South Vietnamese allies on
the battlefield and provided a convincing
incentive for serious negotiations. In both
instances the combination of local superi-
ority and a strong U.S. defense posture
decreased the likelihood of challenge to
these forces.
When I came into office, I ordered a
reassessment of the rationale upon which
our conventional force planning was
based. Our analysis concluded that a co-
ordinated attack by the major Communist
powers simultaneously in both Europe and
Asia was unlikely. We determined, how-
ever, that our forces should still be ade-
quate to meet a major threat in either
Europe or Asia and to cope simultaneously
with a lesser contingency elsewhere.
The specific potential threats we face
in Asia or Europe continue to be
the primary determinants of the size,
composition, and disposition of our gen-
eral purpose forces. Our principal for-
ward deployments are in these areas
where, supplementing the forces of our
allies, they help counterbalance the strong
forces of potential adversaries. The
strength of the defenses of Western Europe
remains the cornerstone of our own se-
curity posture. The American presence
in Europe and Asia is essential to the
sense of security and confidence of our
friends which underpins all our common
endeavors including our joint efforts in
the common defense. Our forces are de-
ployed to provide a responsive and effi-
cient posture against likely threats.
But planning based on the threats in
these two areas alone is not sufficient. We
also need forces to deal with lesser con-
tingencies that pose a threat to our in-
terests a capability not necessarily pro-
vided by units positioned for a major
conflict overseas.
Moreover, even in a period of develop-
ing détente, we cannot ignore the reality
of a modern Soviet navy operating in-
creasingly in the Caribbean, Indian
Ocean, the Mediterranean and along the
coasts of Africa: newly established Soviet
security commitments, support, facilities,
and communications networks in key
areas of the Third World; or increasing
Soviet arms programs in these areas.
The credibility of our force posture has
two basic determinants: overall size and
the level of forward deployments. Our
general purpose forces are now substan-
tially below the peak levels of the Viet-
nam buildup and well below even the
levels maintained prior to the Vietnam
484
