Richard Nixon, 1973
[21]
Jan. 29
reducing costs the better for the Nation.
The estimated 1975 outlays for the
various Federal agencies are, of course,.
tentative. The outlay total, however, is
the approximate amount that will repre-
sent appropriate Federal spending in 1975
if we are to avoid new taxes and inflation.
As program priorities change and require
increases in some areas, offsetting de-
creases must be found in others. As the
projections indicate, this is necessary for
both 1974 and 1975.
FISCAL POLICY AND THE BUDGET PROCESS
FISCAL POLICY.-In July 1970, I adopt-
ed the full-employment budget principle
in order to make the budget a tool to pro-
mote orderly economic expansion.
Consistent with this principle, the
budget that I submitted to the Congress
last January proposed fiscal stimulus as
part of a balanced economic program that
included sound monetary policy and the
new economic policy that I launched on
August 15, 1971. My confidence that the
American economy would respond to sen-
sible stimulus in this context has been
fully justified. During 1972, employment
increased by 2.3 million persons, real out-
put rose by 72%, business fixed invest-
ment was 14% higher, and the rate of
increase in consumer prices declined.
From 1971 through 1973, the full-em-
ployment budget principle permitted and
called for substantial actual budget def-
icits. For this reason, some people have
forgotten the crucial point that the full-
employment principle requires that defi-
cits be reduced as the economy ap-
proaches full employment-and that it
establishes the essential discipline of an
upper limit on spending at all times.
The full-employment budget principle
permits fiscal stimulation when stimula-
tion is appropriate and calls for restraint
when restraint is appropriate. But it is not
self-enforcing. It signals us what course to
steer, but requires us to take the actions
necessary to keep on course. These steps
are not taken for us, and they are rarely
easy.
As we look ahead, with the economy on
the upswing, the full-employment budget
principle-and common sense-prescribe
a shift away from fiscal stimulus and
toward smaller budget deficits. We must
do what is necessary to make this shift.
Holding 1973 spending to $250 billion
and achieving full-employment balance
in 1974 and in 1975 will be difficult. Re-
duction of some activities and termina-
tion of others are necessary and are pro-
posed in this budget. Nonetheless, the
budget provides significant increases for
many important programs.
If we did not budget with firm re-
straint, our expenditures in 1973 would be
over $260 billion. The ballooning effect of
one year's expenditures on the next would
in turn have meant that 1974's expendi-
tures would be about $288 billion, far
beyond full-employment revenues, and
1975's expenditures would be approxi-
mately $312 billion, leading to a huge,
inflationary deficit.
If spending is to be controlled, the Con-
gress must establish a spending ceiling
promptly. Otherwise, the seeds sown in
individual authorization and appropria-
tion actions will produce ever-growing
Federal spending not only in the coming
fiscal year but in the years beyond.
Should the Congress cause the total
budgeted outlays to be exceeded, it would
inescapably face the alternatives of higher
taxes, higher interest rates, renewed infla-
tion, or all three. I oppose these alterna-
35
