[183] June 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
But because this is a house of peace,
every one of them has checked his holster
belt with the pistols at the door before he
came in. [Laughter]
Thank you.
[At this point, General Secretary Brezhnev
responded to the President's remarks. The
President then resumed speaking.]
You will be interested to know that the
General Secretary's speech on television,
which was filmed right here at the West-
ern White House this afternoon, will be
carried Sunday night.' When I was in the
Soviet Union, my remarks were carried to
the Soviet audience, and his remarks will
be carried to the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. at a pool-
side reception at his home in San Clemente,
Calif.
General Secretary Brezhnev spoke in Rus-
sian. His remarks were translated by an in-
terpreter as follows:
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have spent already several days in the
United States of America. Every day, Presi-
dent Nixon arranges for me and for the com-
rades who are accompanying me on this trip
new surprises. I would also say that we are
conducting very necessary and important nego-
tiations, and we have already managed to sign
quite important agreements which are con-
firming and consolidating the good, friendly
relations which are existing between our
peoples and between our states. And I might
stress that especially significant in this respect
is the agreement we have concluded yester-
day on the prevention of nuclear war.
Every day, I meet old acquaintances in
America, and I make new friendships, and this
is a fact which is a fact of great pleasure.
'General Secretary Brezhnev's address to the
American people was broadcast on nation-
wide radio and television at 6 p.m., on June 24,
1973. A text of his address is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 836).
And I would like to stress that it is impor-
tant that today I am here in the home of the
President and Mrs. Nixon, and I feel happy.
We are continuing with our serious and bene-
ficial work here, and we have spent many
hours in business-like negotiations.
Today, here on the territory of California
quite near to the home of the President, I
have addressed the American people through
American television. I am not sure when they
will have this program, today or tomorrow, but
when you see it, you will hear my thoughts
and the thoughts of the Soviet people.
I would very much like that the name of this
house, La Casa Pacifica, would be symbolic. I
would very much like that our relations go
down in history as relations of peace, of friend-
ship, of mutual respect between our peoples so
that there is no more war.
And in conclusion, I would like to express
my gratitude to the President and Mrs. Nixon
for this wonderful party which he arranged for
us today. I believe that this gathering will
permit me to acquaint myself with the repre-
sentatives of various walks of life, of various
professions, and I feel very happy and grateful.
And to all of you, I would like to wish good
health, personal happiness, and success in all
your endeavors.
Mr. President, I would also like to con-
gratulate you and all the American people on
the successful completion of the heroic space
flight, on the occasion of the successful return
of your astronauts, and I would like to wish
them new successes in this very important area
of human discovery and knowledge, and please
convey my best greetings to them.
I would like to wish that our spacemen con-
tinue their cooperation. I would like to wish
them new, brilliant successes in their wonder-
ful profession which combines courage with
science.
Of course, I cannot but mention what has
happened here by the way, I was the first
who congratulated Secretary of State Rogers
on his birthday, and now I am all confused.
What is really the day when State Secretary
Rogers was born? [Laughter] But anyway, I
would like to say that I also congratulate Mr.
Rogers and wish him all the best.
608
