Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 22 [53]
more without corresponding price in-
creases. We anticipate that farm prices
will be no higher at the end of this year
than they were at the beginning.
For all of these reasons, we have a good
chance to reduce the overall inflation rate
to 22 percent by the end of 1973.
HOLDING THE LINE ON TAXES
The third important economic question
concerns how much money people pay
out in taxes and how much they have left
to control themselves. Here, too, the pic-
ture is promising.
Since 1950, the share of the average
family's income taken for taxes in the
United States has nearly doubled-to
more than 20 percent. The average per-
son worked less than one hour out of each
eight-hour day to pay his taxes in 1950;
today he works nearly two hours each day
for the tax collector.
In fact, if tax cut proposals had not
been adopted during our first term, the
average worker's pay increase last year
would have been wiped out completely
by increased taxes and the taxpayers
would have to pay out an additional $25
billion in personal income taxes this year.
The only way to hold the line on taxes
is to hold the line on Federal spending.
This is why we are cutting back, elimi-
nating or reforming Federal programs that
waste the taxpayers' money.
My Administration has now had four
years of experience with all of our Federal
programs. We have conducted detailed
studies comparing their costs and results.
On the basis of that experience I am con-
vinced that the cost of many Federal pro-
grams can no longer be justified. Among
them are:
-housing programs that benefit the
well-to-do but short-change the poor;
-health programs that build more hos-
pitals when hospital beds are now in
surplus;
-educational fellowships designed to
attract more people into teaching when
tens of thousands of teachers already can-
not find teaching jobs;
-programs that subsidize education for
the children of Federal employees who
already pay enough local taxes to support
their local schools;
-programs that blindly continue wel-
fare payments to those who are ineligible
or overpaid.
Such programs may have appealing
names; they may sound like good causes.
But behind a fancy label can lie a dismal
failure. And unless we cut back now on
the programs that have failed, we will
soon run out of money for the pro-
grams that succeed.
It has been charged that our budget
cuts show a lack of compassion for the dis-
advantaged. The best answer to this
charge is to look at the facts. We are budg-
eting 66 percent more to help the poor
next year than was the case four years
ago; 67 percent more to help the sick;
71 percent more to help older Ameri-
cans and 242 percent more to help the
hungry and malnourished. Altogether,
our human resources budget is a record
$125 billion-nearly double that of four
years ago when I came into office.
We have already shifted our spending
priorities from defense programs to
human resource programs. Now we must
also switch our spending priorities from
programs which give us a bad return on
the dollar to programs that pay off. That
is how to show we truly care about the
needy.
The question is not whether we help
121
