Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 8 [73]
but corrective legislation is still needed.
I shall therefore propose that the 93rd
Congress enact a new Responsive Govern-
ments Act. I shall also propose that we
provide $110 million for this act in fiscal
year 1974-almost one-fifth of the entire
amount that has been spent under the
present law in the last two decades.
This Responsive Governments Act
would assist State and local governments
in meeting several important goals:
-Developing reliable information on
their problems and opportunities;
-Developing and analyzing alternative
policies and programs;
-Managing the programs;
-And evaluating the results, so that
appropriate adjustments can be
made.
The ability to plan and manage is vital
to effective government. It will be even
more important to State and local gov-
ernments as they are freed from the re-
straints of narrow categorical Federal
programs and must decide how to spend
revenue sharing funds. Thus the Respon-
sive Governments Act is a vitally neces-
sary companion piece to the Better Com-
munities Act.
HOUSING
This Administration is firmly commit-
ted to the goal first set forth for America
in the 1949 Housing Act: "a decent home
and a suitable living environment for
every American family." While we believe
that some of our housing programs have
failed and should be replaced, we should
never waiver in our commitment.
During the past four years, the Federal
Government has provided housing assist-
ance to an additional 1.5 million Ameri-
can families of low and moderate income.
This represents more housing assistance
than the total provided by the Federal
Government during the entire 34-year
history of our national housing program
preceding this Administration.
In addition, a healthy, vigorous, pri-
vate housing industry has provided 6 mil-
lion new unsubsidized units of housing for
Americans in the last four years. Housing
starts for each of the last three years have
reached record high levels-levels, in fact,
that are more than double the average for
the preceding 21 years.
Most importantly, the percentage of
Americans living in substandard housing
has dropped dramatically from 46 per-
cent in 1940 to 37 percent in 1950 to 18
percent in 1960 to 8 percent in 1970.
Americans today are better housed than
ever before in our history.
At the same time, however, there has
been mounting evidence of basic defects in
some of our housing programs. It is now
clear that all too frequently the needy
have not been the primary beneficiaries of
these programs; that the programs have
been riddled with inequities; and that the
cost for each unit of subsidized housing
produced under these programs has been
too high. In short, we shall be making far
more progress than we have been and we
should now move to place our housing
policies on a much firmer foundation.
That is why we suspended new activity
under Federal subsidized housing pro-
grams effective January 5th of this year.
I would emphasize, however, that com-
mitments that were made under these
programs prior to their suspension will be
honored. This will mean that approxi-
mately 300,000 units of new subsidized
housing will be started in 1973.
In pursuing our goal of decent homes
for all Americans, we know that better
means are needed-that the old and
31-870 O 75-15
175
