[281] Oct. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Some would question
that.
Q. whether there is any substance
to Mr. Agnew's charges that this is a friv-
olous investigation, that it is a frameup,
and that it is in fact a smear.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mollenhoff, when
you say that I have been briefed on the
charges. I should respond to that by say-
ing that I have not heard the witnesses. I
have only been briefed on what it is be-
lieved the witnesses might testify to.
As far as the charges are concerned,
they are serious and not frivolous. The
Vice President's complaint, as you know,
is that the leaks that have come out on
this particular matter have convicted him
in advance, and it is that particular point
that concerns him, and it concerns me as
well.
As a matter of fact, in the strongest
terms I have spoken to the Attorney Gen-
eral about this matter. He shares my view.
He has taken personal charge of the in-
vestigation with regard to leaks, and
incidentally, he has assured me, Mr.
Mollenhoff, that the Assistant Attorney
General, Mr. Petersen, whom, as you re-
call, I praised rather highly in my 22d of
August press conference in San Clemente,
was in no way-neither he nor members
of his office in the Justice Department—
involved in the leaks involving the Vice
President.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up,
please.
up.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, you may follow
Q. Thank you.
In view of that remark, do you then
still support Mr. Petersen's handling of
the investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. If I did not support
Mr. Petersen's handling of the investiga-
tion, he would have been removed at this
time. But it would be a disservice to an
individual who has served both Adminis-
trations with distinction for many, many
years, to remove him from handling the
investigation unless there was clear evi-
dence that he had been guilty of an in-
discretion, and I have taken this matter up
quite directly with the Attorney General.
The Attorney General assures me that
his investigation-his, the Attorney Gen-
eral's investigation-indicates that Mr.
Petersen has handled this investigation
without prejudice in advance and with-
out, of course, engaging in what, in my
view, is the totally inexcusable and inap-
propriate conduct of leaking information
on a grand jury investigation.
PLANS FOR EUROPEAN TRIP
[8] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. In view of your sidewalk remark the
other night about travel plans, can you
pinpoint for us any better your timing of
your trip to Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis, it is diffi
cult to pinpoint the timing of a trip to
Europe, but in order that all of you can
make your plans a little better, the trip
to Europe will be made within the next
few months, and the timing will be based
on these factors: first, the progress which
is made on the discussions now going on
with regard to a declaration of principles
'On Monday, October 1, following dinner
at a Washington restaurant, the President
stopped to talk with an Italian family outside
the restaurant and mentioned that he hoped
to visit Europe in a few months
842
