Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 26 [13]
partments and agencies, such as the
National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, augmented by some of the
former Council staff. Accordingly, my re-
organization plan proposes the abolition
of the National Aeronautics and Space
Council.
A NEW APPROACH TO EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS
The organization within the Executive
Office of the President which has been
known in recent years as the Office of
Emergency Preparedness dates back,
through its numerous predecessor agen-
cies, more than 20 years. It has performed
valuable functions in developing plans for
emergency preparedness, in administering
Federal disaster relief, and in overseeing
and assisting the agencies in this area.
OEP's work as a coordinating and su-
pervisory authority in this field has in
fact been so effective-particularly under
the leadership of General George A. Lin-
coln, its director for the past four years,
who retired earlier this month after an
exceptional military and public service
career-that the line departments and
agencies which in the past have shared in
the performance of the various prepared-
ness functions now possess the capability to
assume full responsibility for those func-
tions. In the interest of efficiency and
economy, we can now further streamline
the Executive Office of the President by
formally relocating those responsibilities
and closing the Office of Emergency
Preparedness.
I propose to accomplish this reform in
two steps. First, Reorganization Plan
No. I would transfer to the President all
functions previously vested by law in the
Office or its Director, except the Direc-
tor's role as a member of the National
Security Council, which would be abol-
ished; and it would abolish the Office of
Emergency Preparedness.
The functions to be transferred to the
President from OEP are largely incidental
to emergency authorities already vested in
him. They include functions under the
Disaster Relief Act of 1970; the function
of determining whether a major disaster
has occurred within the meaning of
(1) Section 7 of the Act of September 30,
1950, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 241-1, or
(2) Section 762 (a) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965, as added by Section
161 (a) of the Education Amendments
of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 288
at 299 (relating to the furnishing by the
Commissioner of Education of disaster
relief assistance for educational pur-
poses); and functions under Section 232
of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as
amended (19 U.S.C. 1862), with respect
to the conduct of investigations to deter-
mine the effects on national security of
the importation of certain articles.
The Civil Defense Advisory Council
within OEP would also be abolished by
this plan, as changes in domestic and in-
ternational conditions since its establish-
ment in 1950 have now obviated the need
for a standing council of this type. Should
advice of the kind the Council has pro-
vided be required again in the future,
State and local officials and experts in the
field can be consulted on an ad hoc basis.
Secondly, as soon as the plan became
effective, I would delegate OEP's former
functions as follows:
-All OEP responsibilities having to do
with preparedness for and relief of civil
emergencies and disasters would be
transferred to the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development. This
23
