[359] Dec. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
359 Statement on Signing the Emergency Daylight Saving
Time Energy Conservation Act of 1973.
December 15, 1973
I AM pleased to sign today H.R. 11324,
placing the United States on daylight
saving time for a period of approximately
2 years, beginning at 2 a.m., Sunday,
January 6, 1974-
We have taken a number of actions
to meet the energy crisis, and more will
have to be taken. Many require inconven-
ience and sacrifice. But daylight saving
time on a year-round basis, which will
result in the conservation during the win-
ter months of an estimated equivalent of
150,000 barrels of oil a day, will mean only
a minimum of inconvenience and will in-
volve equal participation by all. Unlike
many of our other initiatives to deal with
the energy crisis and to accomplish the
goal of self-sufficiency in energy through
Project Independence, these savings will
not require research, new technology,
diplomacy, or exploration.
I am delighted that the Congress has
moved expeditiously in providing this
method of helping to meet the energy
shortage, and I am hopeful that we might
see equally expeditious action on the more
complex and far-reaching legislation
which we must have to deal with this
problem.
I call upon the Congress to complete
action before the recess on responsible bills
to provide the energy emergency authori-
ties we need to deal with the problem and
to give a statutory base to the Federal
Energy Administration to provide the nec-
essary focused leadership.
NOTE: The President signed the bill in a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 11324 is Public Law 93-182
(87 Stat. 707).
360 Statement About Signing the United Nations
Environment Program Participation Act of 1973.
December 17, 1973
I AM pleased to have signed into law a
bill authorizing a $40 million voluntary
contribution by the United States to the
United Nations Environment Fund over
the next 5 years. As I first proposed such a
contribution early last year, and it has
since been supported by both Democrats
and Republicans, this bill reflects broad
agreement on the need for international
action to halt the continuing degradation
of the global environment.
The indiscriminate depletion of natural
resources, the pollution of our environ-
ment, and the problems of sustaining the
quality of life in urbanizing societies
throughout the world require that we act
as a community of nations. The United
Nations Environment Fund, established
by the United Nations General Assembly,
will be used to coordinate and to fill gaps
in existing international activities con-
cerned with improving the world environ-
ment. A good beginning has already been
made. Since the United Nations Confer-
ence on the Human Environment took
place in 1972, the United States has been
1014
