Appendix B
May
25 Lt. Col. John Dramesi, USAF, of Black-
wood, N.J., called on the President at the
White House to present him with an Ameri-
can flag which he had made while held as a
prisoner of war in North Vietnam.
25 The President met with members of the
Cabinet at the White House.
27 The President expressed deep sadness and
sympathy on the death of Secret Service
Agent J. Clifford Dietrich. Agent Dietrich
drowned when the Presidential helicopter in
which he and six other Secret Service agents
were passengers crashed off Grand Cay Is-
land in the Bahamas. The President ordered
the Secretary of Defense to appoint an
investigating board to determine the cause
of the accident.
29 Secretary of State William P. Rogers met
with the President at the White House to
report on his recent trip to Latin America.
29 The bipartisan Congressional leadership
met with the President at the White House.
Discussion topics included Secretary Rogers'
trip to Latin America, the President's up-
coming meetings with French President
Pompidou in Iceland, and other foreign
policy matters.
29 Representatives of the Eighth Armored
Division Association called on the President
at the White House to present him with the
Association's annual peace citation for his
contributions to the cause of peace. They
were accompanied by Senator Edward J.
Gurney of Florida.
29 Robert S. Stone, newly appointed Di-
rector of the National Institutes of Health,
and Charles C. Edwards, Assistant Secre-
tary for Health in the Department of HEW,
met with the President at the White House
to discuss progress and expanded research
efforts toward finding cures for cancer and
heart disease.
29 The President directed the Secretary of
Labor to certify as eligible to apply for
adjustment assistance under the Trade Ex-
pansion Act of 1962, employees of Johnson
Shoes, Inc., Manchester, N.H.
May
29 The President greeted a delegation of 20
journalists from the People's Republic of
China who were visiting the United States
at the invitation of the American Society of
Newspaper Editors.
29 The Quadriad-Secretary of the Treasury
George P. Shultz, Director Roy L. Ash of
the Office of Management and Budget,
Chairman Herbert Stein of the Council of
Economic Advisers, and Chairman Arthur
F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board-
met with the President at the White House.
Also attending the meeting were John T.
Dunlop, Chairman of the Cost of Living
Council; John B. Connally, Special Ad-
visor to the President; and Kenneth R. Cole,
Jr., Executive Director of the Domestic
Council.
29 Fifteen Democratic Members of the House
of Representatives met with the President
at the White House to discuss global policy
and national defense matters.
30 Huang Chen, Chief of the People's Repub-
lic of China Liaison Office in Washington,
met with the President at the White House.
30 Mrs. Nixon and Julie Eisenhower repre-
sented the President at funeral services in
Greenwich, Conn., for Secret Service Agent
J. Clifford Dietrich.
30 The President left Washington for meetings
in Iceland with French President Georges
Pompidou. During the flight, he viewed
damage resulting from recent volcanic
eruptions in the Westmann Islands.
30 In Reykjavik, the President met with Ice-
landic President Kristján Eldjárn, Prime
Minister Olafur Jóhannesson, and Minister
of Foreign Affairs Einar Ágústsson at the
State Council House.
June
1 After 2 days of discussions with President
Pompidou in Reykjavik, President Nixon
returned to Washington.
5 Herbert G. Klein, who resigned as Director
of Communications for the Executive
Branch, met with the President at the
White House.
1075
