Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
that we press forward with its
development.
The increasing occurrence of unneces-
sary delays in the development of energy
facilities must be ended if we are to meet
our energy needs. To be sure, reasonable
safeguards must be vigorously maintained
for protection of the public and of our
environment. Full public participation
and questioning must also be allowed as
we decide where new energy facilities are
to be built. We need to streamline our
governmental procedures for licensing
and inspections, reduce overlapping ju-
risdictions and eliminate confusion gen-
erated by the government.
To achieve these ends I am taking sev-
eral steps. During the coming year we
will examine various possibilities to assure
that all public and private interests are
impartially and expeditiously weighed in
all government proceedings for permits,
licensing and inspections.
I am again proposing siting legislation
to the Congress for electric facilities and
for the first time, for deepwater ports. All
of my new siting legislation includes pro-
vision for simplified licensing at both
Federal and State levels. It is vital that the
Congress take prompt and favorable
action on these proposals.
ENCOURAGING DOMESTIC EXPLORATION
Our tax system now provides needed.
incentives for mineral exploration in the
form of percentage depletion allowances
and deductions for certain drilling ex-
penses. These provisions do not, however,
distinguish between exploration for new
reserves and development of existing
reserves.
In order to encourage increased explo-
ration, I ask the Congress to extend the
investment credit provisions of our present
tax law so that a credit will be provided
for all exploratory drilling for new oil and
gas fields. Under this proposal, a some-
what higher credit would apply for
successful exploratory wells than for un-
successful ones, in order to put an addi-
tional premium on results.
The investment credit has proven itself
a powerful stimulus to industrial activity.
I expect it to be equally effective in the
search for new reserves.
IMPORTING TO MEET OUR ENERGY
NEEDS
OIL IMPORTS
In order to avert a short-term fuel short-
age and to keep fuel costs as low as pos-
sible, it will be necessary for us to increase
fuel imports. At the same time, in order to
reduce our long-term reliance on imports,
we must encourage the exploration and
development of our domestic oil and the
construction of refineries to process it.
The present quota system for oil im-
ports the Mandatory Oil Import Pro-
gram-was established at a time when we
could produce more oil at home than we
were using. By imposing quantitative
restrictions on imports, the quota system
restricted imports of foreign oil. It also
encouraged the development of our do-
mestic petroleum industry in the interest
of national security.
Today, however, we are not producing
as much oil as we are using, and we must
import ever larger amounts to meet our
needs.
As a result, the current Mandatory Oil
Import Program is of virtually no benefit
311
