Richard Nixon, 1973
June 25 [185]
que adopted in Moscow in May 1972, to
continue their separate and joint contri-
butions to strengthening peaceful rela-
tions in Europe. Both Sides affirm that
ensuring a lasting peace in Europe is a
paramount goal of their policies.
In this connection satisfaction was ex-
pressed with the fact that as a result of
common efforts by many States, including
the USA and the USSR, the preparatory
work has been successfully completed for
the Conference on Security and Cooper-
ation in Europe, which will be convened
on July 3, 1973. The USA and the USSR
hold the view that the Conference will
enhance the possibilities for strengthening
European security and developing cooper-
ation among the participating States. The
USA and the USSR will conduct their
policies so as to realize the goals of the
Conference and bring about a new era of
good relations in this part of the world.
Reflecting their continued positive atti-
tude toward the Conference, both Sides
will make efforts to bring the Conference
to a successful conclusion at the earliest
possible time. Both Sides proceed from the
assumption that progress in the work of
the Conference will produce possibilities
for completing it at the highest level.
The USA and the USSR believe that
the goal of strengthening stability and
security in Europe would be further ad-
vanced if the relaxation of political ten-
sions were accompanied by a reduction of
military tensions in Central Europe. In
this respect they attach great importance
to the negotiations on the mutual reduc-
tion of forces and armaments and asso-
ciated measures in Central Europe which
will begin on October 30, 1973. Both Sides
state their readiness to make, along with
other States, their contribution to the
achievement of mutually acceptable de-
cisions on the substance of this problem,
based on the strict observance of the prin-
ciple of the undiminished security of any
of the parties.
MIDDLE EAST
The parties expressed their deep con-
cern with the situation in the Middle East
and exchanged opinions regarding ways
of reaching a Middle East settlement.
Each of the parties set forth its position
on this problem.
Both parties agreed to continue to exert
their efforts to promote the quickest pos-
sible settlement in the Middle East. This
settlement should be in accordance with
the interests of all states in the area, be
consistent with their independence and
sovereignty and should take into due ac-
count the legitimate interests of the
Palestinian people.
IV. COMMERCIAL AND ECONOMIC
RELATIONS
The President and the General Secre-
tary thoroughly reviewed the status of and
prospects for commercial and economic
ties between the USA and the USSR.
Both Sides noted with satisfaction the
progress achieved in the past year in the
normalization and development of com-
mercial and economic relations between
them.
They agreed that mutually advanta-
geous cooperation and peaceful relations
would be strengthened by the creation of
a permanent foundation of economic
relationships.
They recall with satisfaction the various
agreements on trade and commercial
relations signed in the past year. Both
Sides note that American-Soviet trade has
615
