[58] Feb. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
one else can assume that obligation for
us-least of all the Federal Government.
If we shirk our individual responsibility,
the American dream will never be more
than a dream. But if the people say yes
to this challenge, and if government says
yes to the people, we can make that dream
come true in the lives of all Americans.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded
for broadcast at 1:06 p.m. on nationwide radio.
59 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost of
Living Council's Quarterly Report on the Economic
Stabilization Program. February 26, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
The accompanying report of the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Program covers the
last quarter of 1972-the final months of
Phase II and a period of marked eco-
nomic progress.
As the year 1972 neared its end, the
picture of improved conditions was un-
mistakably clear. The economy gathered
strength, employment reached an all-
time high, the rate of unemployment
dropped, real earnings rose significantly
after several years of sluggishness, and the
rate of inflation was lower.
Overall, the goals of Phase II were
either achieved, or results were close to
the targets. Food prices were an excep-
tion, and remedies in the form of increased
production and supply are being sought
in that area. Wage-price controls, how-
ever, can be only a part of the program to
combat inflation. Reductions in Federal
spending and a responsible fiscal and
monetary policy must be the main ele-
ments of the anti-inflation effort, and I
intend to continue pressing for them.
To preserve our gains and to prepare
the country for a full return to the com-
petitive marketplace of peacetime, I in-
stituted Phase III of the Economic
Stabilization Program earlier this year.
Under the Cost of Living Council, this
modified system has the resources to guard
against the still-present threat of inflation.
I am determined that we shall lower the
rate of inflation to 2.5 percent or less by
the end of 1973, and I am prepared to use
the tools at my disposal to reach this goal.
The American people clearly want the
rate driven as low as possible, and I be-
lieve we can do so if the Congress will
extend the Economic Stabilization Act for
another year beyond April 30 and if we
can obtain the full cooperation of all seg-
ments of our society.
The White House,
February 26, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report, covering the period Octo-
ber 1, 1972, through January 10, 1973, is en-
titled "Economic Stabilization Program Quar-
terly Report" (Government Printing Office, 70
pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
a statement on wage and price stabilization
by George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treas
ury and Chairman of the Cost of Living Coun-
cil, and the transcript of a news briefing on
economic stabilization measures by Secretary
Shultz and John T. Dunlop, Director of the
Cost of Living Council. The statement is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 191).
132
