Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
velop offensive weapons that could
destroy a substantial number of an
opponent's retaliatory forces and a
defense that could blunt a retaliatory
strike. In such circumstances a high
premium would be placed on strik-
ing first.
-Neither side could afford to concede
an advantage in strategic defense.
The gap between the rapid advances
in offensive technology and the em-
bryonic state of defensive systems was
growing. For a considerable period,
therefore, both the United States and
the Soviet Union would be vulner-
able to devastating attacks. Yet, in-
herent in new technology is the
prospect of enhanced first strike
capabilities.
These were the strategic circumstances
facing the United States in 1969. They
suggested certain principles for our ap-
proach to arms control negotiations as an
instrument of national security.
-As President, my overriding responsi-
bility is to protect the security of the
United States. We had to maintain
our strategic weapons programs and
develop new ones as appropriate.
Unilateral restraint in anticipation
of the negotiations would not ad-
vance the chances for an agreement;
weakness has been the incentive for
aggression much more frequently
than the arms race.
-Our objective in negotiations would
be to reduce the gap between the
capability for a first strike and the
capability to retaliate. An agreement
should help ensure that a first strike
could not disarm either side.
-We would seek to gain some control
over military technology so that the
basic political relationships with the
Soviet Union would not be domi-
nated by competition in this area.
-Our objective would be to break the
momentum and moderate the process
of strategic competition. The basic
decisions of war and peace would
then remain in the hands of the polit-
ical leaders and not be dictated by
the balance of weapons.
-Finally, we recognized that any
agreement would have to provide
equal security to both sides. No agree-
ment was even conceivable if its pur-
pose was to ratify a clear advantage
for one side.
These were the principles that evolved
in the course of our preparation for nego-
tiation in 1969. They were our basic cri-
teria throughout the talks.
The advances in other areas of arms
control have reflected a similar approach.
We concentrated on those specific issues
where it was possible to make immediate
progress so that agreements would con-
tribute to a broader improvement of re-
lations. We looked for areas where we
could strengthen the principle of mutual
restraint. We decided that progress should
not be tied solely to the state of technical
or procedural discussions but should take
into account the political relationships,
especially with the Soviet Union, that
would ultimately determine the success
or failure of the agreements.
-In 1969-70 we concentrated on ban-
ning nuclear weapons from the sea-
beds, because this was an area where
the nuclear powers and the non-
nuclear countries had clear common
interests and where the political, en-
vironmental, and strategic policies
offered a chance for early progress.
Moreover, by separating nuclear
weapons from all other military ac-
491
