[233] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
lems, improving your life, building your
future.
With your help, with God's help, we
will achieve those great goals for America.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 pm. from the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television.
An advance text of the President's address
was released on the same day.
234 Statement About the Watergate Investigations.
August 15, 1973
ON MAY 17 the Senate Select Commit-
tee began its hearings on Watergate. Five
days later, on May 22, I issued a detailed
statement discussing my relationship to
the matter. I stated categorically that I
had no prior knowledge of the Watergate
operation and that I neither knew of no
took part in any subsequent efforts to
cover it up. I also stated that I would not
invoke executive privilege as to testimony
by present and former members of my
White House Staff with respect to possible
criminal acts then under investigation.
nor
Thirty-five witnesses have testified so
far. The record is more than 7.500 pages
and some 2 million words long. The alle-
gations are many, the facts are compli-
cated, and the evidence is not only exten-
sive but very much in conflict. It would
be neither fair nor appropriate for me to
assess the evidence or comment on specific
witnesses or their credibility. That is the
function of the Senate committee and the
courts. What I intend to do here is to
cover the principal issues relating to my
own conduct which have been raised since
my statement of May 22, and thereby to
place the testimony on those issues in
perspective.
I said on May 22 that I had no prior
knowledge of the Watergate operation. In
all the testimony, there is not the slightest
evidence to the contrary. Not a single wit-
ness has testified that I had any knowl-
edge of the planning for the Watergate
break-in.
It is also true, as I said on May 22, that
I took no part in, and was not aware of,
any subsequent efforts to cover up the
illegal acts associated with the Watergate
break-in.
In the summer of 1972, I had given
orders for the Justice Department and the
FBI to conduct a thorough and aggres-
sive investigation of the Watergate
break-in, and I relied on their investiga-
tion to disclose the facts. My only concern
about the scope of the investigation was
that it might lead into CIA or other na-
tional security operations of a sensitive
nature. Mr. Gray, the Acting Director of
the FBI, told me by telephone on July 6
that he had met with General Walters,
that General Walters had told him the
CIA was not involved, and that CIA activ-
ities would not be compromised by the FBI
investigation. As a result, any problems
that Mr. Gray may have had in coordinat-
ing with the CIA were moot. I concluded
by instructing him to press forward vig-
orously with his own investigation.
During the summer of 1972, I repeat-
edly asked for reports on the progress of
the investigation. Every report I received
was that no persons, other than the seven
who were subsequently indicted, were in-
volved in the Watergate operation. On
September 12, at a meeting attended by
698
