[162] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing inquiry that has been focused on the
campaign waged in my behalf in 1972.
It is clear that unethical, as well as il-
legal, activities took place in the course
of that campaign.
None of these took place with my spe-
cific approval or knowledge. To the extent
that I may in any way have contributed to
the climate in which they took place, I did
not intend to; to the extent that I failed
to prevent them, I should have been more
vigilant.
It was to help ensure against any repe-
tition of this in the future that last week
I proposed the establishment of a top-
level, bipartisan, independent commis-
sion to recommend a comprehensive
reform of campaign laws and practices.
Given the priority I believe it deserves,
such reform should be possible before the
next Congressional elections in 1974-
-It now appears that there were per-
sons who may have gone beyond my di-
rectives, and sought to expand on my
efforts to protect the national security op-
erations in order to cover up any involve-
ment they or certain others might have
had in Watergate. The extent to which
this is true, and who may have partici-
pated and to what degree, are questions
that it would not be proper to address
here. The proper forum for settling these
matters is in the courts.
-To the extent that I have been able
to determine what probably happened in
the tangled course of this affair, on the
basis of my own recollections and of the
conflicting accounts and evidence that I
have seen, it would appear that one fac-
tor at work was that at critical points
various people, each with his own per-
spective and his own responsibilities, saw
the same situation with different eyes and
heard the same words with different ears.
What might have seemed insignificant to
one seemed significant to another; what
one saw in terms of public responsibility,
another saw in terms of political oppor-
tunity; and mixed through it all, I am
sure, was a concern on the part of many
that the Watergate scandal should not be
allowed to get in the way of what the
Administration sought to achieve.
The truth about Watergate should be
brought out-in an orderly way, recogniz-
ing that the safeguards of judicial proce-
dure are designed to find the truth, not to
hide the truth.
With his selection of Archibald Cox-
who served both President Kennedy and
President Johnson as Solicitor General-
as the special supervisory prosecutor for
matters related to the case, Attorney Gen-
eral-designate Richardson has demon-
strated his own determination to see the
truth brought out. In this effort he has
my full support.
Considering the number of persons in-
volved in this case whose testimony might
be subject to a claim of executive privi-
lege, I recognize that a clear definition of
that claim has become central to the effort
to arrive at the truth.
Accordingly, executive privilege will
not be invoked as to any testimony con-
cerning possible criminal conduct or dis-
cussions of possible criminal conduct, in
the matters presently under investigation,
including the Watergate affair and the
alleged coverup.
I want to emphasize that this statement
is limited to my own recollections of what
I said and did relating to security and to
the Watergate. I have specifically avoided
any attempt to explain what other parties
may have said and done. My own in-
formation on those other matters is
fragmentary, and to some extent contra-
554
