[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Throughout 1969 and 1970 the United
States and its allies engaged in a search-
ing reexamination of defense policy. The
principal results, announced in Decem-
ber 1970, were significant:
-All agreed it was essential to reverse
the trend of declining capabilities
and adopt a concerted, long-term
program to improve existing conven-
tional forces.
-The European allies agreed to a spe-
cific five-year program to improve
and modernize their own forces by
spending more for equipment.
-The Alliance concluded that a com-
mitment of substantial U.S. forces
was indispensable to Western Eu-
rope's defense.
-We, in turn, reaffirmed our commit-
ment to maintain and improve our
own forces in Europe, given a similar
effort by the allies.
Force Improvements. Our European
allies increased defense expenditures in
both 1971 and 1972. Even allowing for
inflation, the net increase was three to
four percent. In each year since 1970,
they have committed an additional $1 bil-
lion through the European Defense Im-
provement Program. Their defense budget
increases in 1972 were more than $1 bil-
lion, and last December the European De-
fense Ministers announced that in 1973
their additional contributions would total
$1.5 billion. Since 1970, the European
allies have increased equipment expendi-
tures by $1.4 billion. During 1971 and
1972 they bought 1,100 main battle tanks,
700 antitank weapons, and 400 modern
combat aircraft, as well as other equip-
ment. This has been an impressive re-
sponse in a period of rising costs and of
growing demands of domestic programs.
Sharing the Defense Burden. Improve-
ments in European forces are the most
important aspect of sharing the defense
burden. As almost all European defense
expenditures are directly related to
NATO, increased European effort means
in practice that the U.S. share is less. This
is an appropriate solution, since the
United States maintains forces to meet
global commitments and therefore de-
votes a much higher share of its economic
product to defense than do the Europeans.
There is another aspect of the defense
burden, however, that has not been sat-
isfactorily resolved. Our position is unique
in that our deployments in Europe add
significantly to our general balance of pay-
ments deficit. In 1972 the United States
spent about $2.1 billion in other NATO
countries to support our NATO deploy-
ments. Allowing for NATO military
spending in the United States, mainly for
equipment and training, our net military
deficit was about $1.5 billion. This net
deficit has risen since 1970 and for a
variety of reasons, including the devalua-
tion of the dollar, will continue to rise.
In previous years, the Federal Republic
of Germany offset a large part of this
deficit, primarily by purchases of military
equipment in the United States. In the
current agreement for 1972-73, the Ger-
man government also contributed to the
costs of rehabilitating the barracks for
U.S. forces in Germany.
Nevertheless, the Alliance as a whole
should examine this problem. As a gen-
eral principle, we should move toward a
lasting solution under which balance of
payments consequences from stationing
U.S. forces in Europe will not be sub-
stantially different from those of main-
taining the same forces in the United
States. It is reasonable to expect the Al-
liance to examine this problem this year.
408
