[339] Nov. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
When the House returns from its recess,
I am confident the House will move
promptly so that this vital legislation can
be signed into law by the middle of
December.
And so we have made some encourag-
ing progress, but there is much more to be
done, and that is what I want to talk to
you about tonight.
I have appointed an Energy Emergency
Action Group, under my chief energy ad-
viser, Governor John Love, to analyze our
situation on a continuing basis and to
advise me of all actions required to deal
with it.
And upon the action and the recom-
mendation of this group, I am announcing
tonight the following steps to meet the en-
ergy crisis:
First, to increase the supply of heating
oil that will be available this winter, we
must adjust production schedules and di-
vert petroleum which might normally go
for the production of gasoline to the pro-
duction of more heating oil.
To accomplish this, the amount of gas-
oline which refiners distribute to whole-
salers and retailers will be reduced across
the Nation by 15 percent. As we reduce
gasoline supplies, we must act to insure
that the remaining gasoline available is
used wisely and conserved to the fullest
possible extent.
Therefore, as a second step, I am asking
tonight that all gasoline filling stations
close down their pumps between 9 p.m.
Saturday night and midnight Sunday
every weekend, beginning December 1.
We are requesting that this step be taken
voluntarily now.
Upon passage of the emergency energy
legislation before the Congress, gas sta-
tions will be required to close during these
hours. This step should not result in any
serious hardship for any American family.
It will, however, discourage long-distance
driving during weekends. It will mean
perhaps spending a little more time at
home.
This savings alone is only a small part
of what we have to conserve to meet the
total gasoline shortage. We can achieve
substantial additional savings by altering
our driving habits. While the voluntary
response to my request for reduced driv-
ing speeds has been excellent, it is now
essential that we have mandatory and full
compliance with this important step on a
nationwide basis.
And therefore, the third step will be the
establishment of a maximum speed limit
for automobiles of 50 miles per hour na-
tionwide as soon as our emergency energy
legislation passes the Congress. We expect
that this measure will produce a savings
of 200,000 barrels of gasoline per day.
Intercity buses and heavy-duty trucks,
which operate more efficiently at higher
speeds and therefore do not use more gaso-
line, will be permitted to observe a 55
mile-per-hour speed limit.
The fourth step we are taking involves
our jet airliners. There will be a phased
reduction of an additional 15 percent in
the consumption of jet fuel for passenger
flights bringing the total reduction to ap-
proximately 25 percent.
These savings will be achieved by a
careful reduction in schedules, combined
with an increase in passenger loads. We
will not have to stop air travel, but we will
have to plan for it more carefully.
The fifth step involves cutting back on
outdoor lighting. As soon as the emer-
gency energy legislation passes the Con-
gress, I shall order the curtailment of
ornamental outdoor lighting for homes
and the elimination of all commercial
974
