Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 28 [96]
ing terribly themselves and inflicting their
suffering on countless others, still stands
in the hundreds of thousands.
A UNIFIED COMMAND FOR DRUG
ENFORCEMENT
Seeking ways to intensify our counter-
offensive against this menace, I am asking
the Congress today to join with this Ad-
ministration in strengthening and stream-
lining the Federal drug law enforcement
effort.
Funding for this effort has increased
sevenfold during the past five years, from
$36 million in fiscal year 1969 to $257
million in fiscal year 1974-more money
is not the most pressing enforcement need
at present. Nor is there a primary need
for more manpower working on the prob-
lem, over 2,100 new agents having
already been added to the Federal drug
enforcement agencies under this Admin-
istration, an increase of more than 250
percent over the 1969 level.
The enforcement work could benefit
significantly, however, from consolidation
of our anti-drug forces under a single uni-
fied command. Right now the Federal
Government is fighting the war on drug
abuse under a distinct handicap, for its
efforts are those of a loosely confederated
alliance facing a resourceful, elusive,
worldwide enemy. Admiral Mahan, the
master naval strategist, described this
handicap precisely when he wrote that
"Granting the same aggregate of force,
it is never as great in two hands as in one,
because it is not perfectly concentrated."
More specifically, the drug law enforce-
ment activities of the United States now
are not merely in two hands but in half a
dozen. Within the Department of Justice,
with no overall direction below the level
of the Attorney General, these frag-
mented forces include the Bureau of Nar-
cotics and Dangerous Drugs, the Office
for Drug Abuse Law Enforcement, the Of-
fice of National Narcotics Intelligence,
and certain activities of the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Administration. The
Treasury Department is also heavily en-
gaged in enforcement work through the
Bureau of Customs.
This aggregation of Federal activities
has grown up rapidly over the past few
years in response to the urgent need for
stronger anti-drug measures. It has en-
abled us to make a very encouraging
beginning in the accelerated drug enforce-
ment drive of this Administration.
But it also has serious operational and
organizational shortcomings. Certainly
the cold-blooded underworld networks
that funnel narcotics from suppliers all
over the world into the veins of American
drug victims are no respecters of the bu-
reaucratic dividing lines that now com-
plicate our anti-drug efforts. On the
contrary, these modern-day slave traders
can derive only advantage from the limita-
tions of the existing organizational patch-
work. Experience has now given us a good
basis for correcting those limitations, and
it is time to do so.
I therefore propose creation of a single,
comprehensive Federal agency within the
Department of Justice to lead the war
against illicit drug traffic.
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1973,
which I am transmitting to the Congress
with this message, would establish such an
agency, to be called the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration. It would be headed
by an Administrator reporting directly
to the Attorney General.
The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion would carry out the following anti-
229
