Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
utive Office Building office rather than
the Oval Office-over the weekend to
that extent.
But that weekend, I was in the EOB
for a long conversation with Dr. Kissinger
on foreign policy matters. I was there for
2 other hours, or 2 or 3 other hours, and
the tape ran out in the middle of a conver-
sation with Mr. Kleindienst in the middle
of the afternoon, Sunday afternoon.
And a later conversation I had the
rest of Kleindienst's conversation—a later
conversation I had also with Mr. Peter-
sen, and the conversation at 9 o'clock at
night with Mr. Dean was not there.
So, I tried to find whatever recording,
whatever record that would help the pros-
ecutor in this instance to reconstruct the
evidence, because it was the evidence that
he was after and not just the tape.
What I found was not a dictabelt. What
I found was my handwritten notes made
at the time of the conversation. I have
turned those over to or have authorized
my Counsel to turn those notes over to the
judge so that he can have them checked
for authenticity, and I understand there
are ways that he can tell that they were
written at that time. Those handwritten
notes are available.
And then I did one other thing which
I think will also be helpful. The next day,
I had a conversation with Mr. Dean in
the morning at 10 o'clock. That conver-
sation was recorded, and in that conver-
sation there are repeated references to
what was said the night before, and when
compared with my handwritten notes it
is clear that we are discussing the same
subjects.
That entire tape, as well as the conver-
sation I had in the afternoon with Mr.
Dean for about 20 minutes, will be made
available to the court even though the
court has not subpoenaed them.
I would just simply say in conclusion,
you can be very sure that this kind of a
subject is one that is a difficult one to ex-
plain. It appears that it is impossible that
when we have an Apollo system that we
could have two missing tapes when the
White House is concerned. Let me ex-
plain for one moment what the system
was. This is no Apollo system. I found that
it cost-I just learned this-$2,500. I
found that instead of having the kind of
equipment that was there when President
Johnson was there, which was incidentally
much better equipment, but I found—
and I am not saying that critically—but
I found that in this instance it was a Sony,
a little Sony that they had, and that what
they had are these little lapel mikes in my
desks. And as a result the conversations
in the Oval Office, the conversations in
the Cabinet Room, and particularly those
in the EOB-those are the three rooms,
only those three rooms, where they re-
corded-for example, the Western White
House had no recording equipment, and
my house in Key Biscayne had none-but
as far as those particular recordings are
concerned, the reason that you have heard
that there are difficulties in hearing them
is that the system itself was not a sophisti-
cated system.
I do not mean to suggest by that that
the judge, by listening to them, will not
be able to get the facts, and I would sim-
ply conclude by saying this: I think I
know what is on these tapes from having
listened to some, those before March 21,
and also from having seen from my sec-
retary's notes the highlights of others. And
I can assure you that those tapes, when
they are presented to the judge and, I
949
