[275] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Patent Office much information
relevant to its decision about issuance of a
new patent because that information is
frequently held by those who may be in
commercial competition with the patent
applicant. Thus the Patent Office may
grant a patent to one inventor without
knowing that similar information already
exists. As a consequence, legal disputes be-
tween a new patentee and his competitors
have often arisen after the patent has
been issued, and, because the courts can
develop a more complete factual record, a
large number of patents have been
declared invalid. This litigation is often
protracted and needlessly expensive, both
for the patentees and their competitors. In
addition, there have been increasing al-
legations of fraud and inequitable conduct
in the procurement of patents. The net
result is that public confidence in the
reliability of our patent system has been
eroded, and we have reached the point
where reform is clearly desirable.
Accordingly, I am today proposing that
the Congress enact the Patent Moderniza-
tion and Reform Act of 1973. This legisla-
tion, which will today be transmitted to
the Congress by the Commerce and Justice
Departments, is designed to rid the patent
system of many of its existing problems
without sacrificing the indispensable
stimulus to invention now afforded by that
system. Specifically, this bill has four ma-
jor objectives:
1. Strengthening public confidence in
the validity of issued patents;
2. Accelerating and improving the dis-
closure of new technology revealed by the
patents:
3. Simplifying the procedures for ob-
taining patents; and
4. Enhancing the value of the patent
grant.
STRENGTHENING PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
The single most important objective of
reform must be the establishment of ex-
amination procedures which ensure that
new patents are both sound and reliable.
The best way to achieve this objective
is to obtain as much information from all
sources as is practicable.
To remedy the defects of the present sys-
tem, I am recommending that we broaden
public participation in the review of
patent applications, that we strengthen
the hand of the patent examiner, and
that we require applicants to give greater
assistance to the examiner in bringing in-
formation to light. If we take these steps,
I believe we would not only ensure a more
orderly and complete patent examination
but also greatly strengthen public con-
fidence in the validity of our patents.
Under the proposed bill, the Patent
Office would publish all patent applica-
tions that seem worthwhile and would
then give the public six months to bring
to its attention information relevant to
the application. Members of the public
would be permitted to present their views
to the Patent Office in an adversary pro-
ceeding, and new procedures for dis-
covery of information and opportunities
for the opposing parties to appeal the
decisions of the Patent Office through the
courts would be established. The bill also
provides for additional manpower for the
Patent Office so that opposition proceed-
ings can be conducted effectively.
The patent examiner, a critical figure
in the application process, would also be
given additional tools to perform his job.
These would include, in appropriate cases,
authorization to require an adversary ex-
amination proceeding and to obtain the
assistance from a special patent officer in
826
