Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [114]
want to express my gratitude to all of
these dedicated public servants who have
taken such a responsible stand on these
two crucial votes. Ahead lie further tests
which will demand from us the same
measure of courage and cooperation. I
urge all Members of the Congress to stay
114 Toasts of the President
Kuan Yew of Singapore.
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President,
ladies and gentlemen:
We have welcomed many very distin-
guished guests in this room, and I would
say that none is more deserving of our re-
spect and of being honored, as we honor
him tonight, than the Prime Minister
and, I may say, his wife.
I recall the occasions that we have
met previously in his country and also
here, and I recall also the enormous im-
pression that the Prime Minister has
made on various emissaries from the
United States who have visited his coun-
try. The Vice President and Mrs. Agnew
have had the opportunity to visit Singa-
pore, Secretary Rogers and Mrs. Rogers.
I have not, since coming into this office.
I think perhaps the best summary of
the attitude of all of those who have vis-
ited Singapore during the past 3 to 4
years, since I have been having rather
regular reports on the situation, was when
Secretary Connally returned from his trip
around the world when he was Secretary
of the Treasury. He came into my office
and said, "Singapore is the best run coun-
try in the world." And here is the man
who runs it.
I would add to that, however, by say-
ing that the best run country in the world
could mean a country that was run very
the course with me in keeping a tight rein
on the Federal budget.
NOTE: On April 9, 1973, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Secre-
tary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz on his an-
nouncement concerning the availability of Fed-
eral loans for rural sewer facilities, and other
domestic matters.
and Prime Minister Lee
April 10, 1973
well without freedom, because I suppose
that if you look at countries around the
world, those that have the least obvious
problems are those that have no freedom,
and therefore, it would be the best run.
And the Prime Minister tonight de-
serves our honor and our respect, because
in this relatively new country with a
very old history and a very able people,
he has been able to run it well, but run it
with respect for the great traditions of
freedom which our two countries both
adhere to, and for this, we all, of course,
hold him in very high regard.
On the two previous occasions he has
been here since I have been in this office,
he came alone, and, consequently, on one
occasion we had a stag dinner. This time,
fortunately, he brought Mrs. Lee with
him. Now, I had read something about
their courtship. I knew that, like Secre-
tary Rogers and Mrs. Rogers, they had
gone to school together, they had both
graduated from law school in the same
class, and so tonight, very early in the
evening, when you saw me turning to
Mrs. Lee, I said, "Mrs. Lee, tell me, is it
true that you were number one in the
class at Cambridge Law School and your
husband was number two?" And she said,
"Mr. President, do you think he would
have married me if that were the case?"
31-870 O -75-21
271
