Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
only part of your statement that is per-
haps accurate is that I am a lawyer. Now,
beyond that, Mr. Rather, let me say that
with regard to the "secret" meeting that
we had with the judge, as he said, I met
the judge briefly-after all, I had ap-
pointed him to the position-I met him
for perhaps one minute outside my door
here in full view of the whole White
House Staff and everybody else who
wanted to see. I asked him how he liked
his job we did not discuss the case-
and he went on for his meeting with Mr.
Ehrlichman.
Now, why did the meeting with Mr.
Ehrlichman take place? Because we had
determined that Mr. Gray could not be
confirmed, as you will recall. We were on
a search for a Director of the FBI. Mr.
Kleindienst had been here, and I asked
him what he would recommend with re-
gard to a Director, and I laid down cer-
tain qualifications.
I said I wanted a man preferably with
FBI experience, and preferably with pro-
secutor's experience, and preferably, if
possible, a Democrat so that we would
have no problem on confirmation. He
said, "The man for the job is Byrne.” He
said, "He is the best man." I said, "Would
you recommend him?" He said, "Yes."
Under those circumstances then, Mr.
Ehrlichman called Mr. Byrne. He said:
Under no circumstances will we talk to
you-he, Ehrlichman, will talk to you—
if he felt that it would in any way com-
promise his handling of the Ellsberg case.
Judge Byrne made the decision that he
would talk to Mr. Ehrlichman, and he
did talk to him privately, here. And on
that occasion, he talked to him privately,
the case was not discussed at all-only
the question of whether or not, at the con-
clusion of this case, Mr. Byrne would like
to be considered as Director of the FBI.
I understand, incidentally, that he told
Mr. Ehrlichman that he would be inter-
ested. Of course, the way the things broke
eventually, we found another name with
somewhat the same qualifications,
although, in this case, not a judge-in
this case, a chief of police with former FBI
experience.
Now, with regard to the Ellsberg
break-in, let me explain that in terms of
that, I discussed that on the telephone
with Mr. Henry Petersen on the 18th of
April. It was on the 18th of April that I
learned that the grand jury was going
away from some of its Watergate investi-
gation and moving into national security
areas.
I told Mr. Petersen at that time about
my concern about the security areas, and
particularly about the break-in as far as
the Ellsberg case is concerned.
And then he asked me a very critical
question which you, as a nonlawyer, will
now understand, and lawyers probably
will, too. He said, "Was any evidence
developed out of this break-in?" And I
said, "No, it was a dry hole." He said,
"Good."
Now, what he meant by that was that in
view of the fact that no evidence was
developed as a result of the break-in—
which is, incidentally, illegal, unauthor-
ized, as far as I was concerned, and com-
pletely deplorable-but since no evidence
was developed, there was no requirement
that it be presented to the jury that was
hearing the case. That was why Mr. Peter-
sen, a man of impeccable credentials in
the law enforcement field, did not, at that
time on the 18th, at a time that I told him
what I had known about the Ellsberg
717
