Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
new maturity of American policy, of
African policy, and of our relationship.
PART V: DESIGNING A NEW
ECONOMIC SYSTEM
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY
International economic forces have a
direct bearing on the lives of people in all
countries. The monetary, trade, and in-
vestment policies of any government
strongly affect the jobs, prices, and in-
comes of its people. They influence con-
ditions in many other countries as well.
Inevitably, they have a major impact on
international relations.
We have moved far toward resolving
political differences through negotiation in
recent years. But the peace and stability
we seek could be jeopardized by economic
conflicts. Such conflicts breed political
tensions, weaken security ties, undermine
confidence in currencies, disrupt trade,
and otherwise rend the fabric of coopera-
tion on which world order depends.
It is imperative therefore that our ef-
forts in the international economic arena
be no less energetic, no less imaginative,
and no less determined than our efforts to
settle other complicated and vitally im-
portant problems.
In the past two years we have begun a
major effort to reform the international
monetary system, improve the mecha-
nisms of world trade, and normalize our
commercial relations with the People's
Republic of China, the Soviet Union, and
the nations of Eastern Europe. We have
moved closer to new agreements that will
provide greater prosperity for us and for
other nations while ensuring that eco-
nomic relations reinforce traditional ties
and contribute to the development of new
ones. We have the chance to make eco-
nomic relations a strong force for strength-
ening the structure of peace.
THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC SYSTEM
The economic arrangements and insti-
tutions created following World War II
served well until recent years. But as na-
tions gained strength, points of economic
contact between them multiplied and
relative positions shifted, their policies
had a deeper and broader effect on one
another. International institutions and ar-
rangements proved incapable of coping
with the major problems that arose. Con-
flicts, imbalances, divisions, and protec-
tionist tendencies threatened political,
security, and economic cooperation. Na-
tions were forced to meet repeated crises
but did not get at their causes. In August
1971 we decided to take strong action to-
ward fundamental reform of the world
economic system. Our initiatives and pro-
posals in 1972 moved the international
community further towards that needed
reform.
Our goal is to work with other nations
to build a new economic order to meet
the world's needs in the last quarter of
this century. We believe these new ar-
rangements should achieve six major
objectives:
continued economic progress from
which all nations benefit;
-a broader sharing of responsibility
commensurate with new economic
power relationships and the potential
benefits to be gained;
-rules that reflect an equitable bal-
ance among the interests of all
nations;
-the widest possible consensus for
principles of open economic inter-
467
