Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
when we had the visit to Moscow and the
first limited nuclear ban on defensive
weapons, you recall, as well as some other
very significant events.
It was a year, too, when we had the very
difficult decisions on May 8, the bombing
and mining of Haiphong and then the
negotiations and then in December, of
course, the very, very difficult-perhaps
the most difficult-decision I made of the
December bombing, which did lead to the
breakthrough and the uneasy peace, but
it is peace with all of the Americans home,
all of our POW's home, and peace at least
for a while in that period.
Now, during that period of time,
frankly, I didn't manage the campaign. I
didn't run the campaign. People around
me didn't bring things to me that they
probably should have, because I was
frankly just too busy trying to do the Na-
tion's business to run the politics.
My advice to all new politicians, inci-
dentally, is always run your own cam-
paigns. I used to run mine, and I was
always criticized for it, because, you know,
whenever you lose you are always criti-
cized for running your own campaign. But
my point is, Senator Hatfield is correct.
Whether you are a Senator or a Congress-
man, you are sometimes very busy, you
don't watch these things. When you are
President, you don't watch them as closely
as you might. And on that, I say if mis-
takes are made, however, I am not blam-
ing the people down below. The man at
the top has got to take the heat for all of
them.
THE PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL FINANCES
[11.] [To the next questioner] Let me
just respond, if I could, sir, before going
to your question-I will turn left and then
come back to the right; I don't want to
tilt either way at the moment, as you can
be sure since the question was raised
a moment ago about my tax payments.
I noted in some editorials and perhaps
in some commentaries on television, a
very reasonable question. They said, you
know, "How is it that President Nixon
could have a very heavy investment in a
fine piece of property in San Clemente
and a big investment in a piece of prop-
erty in Florida," in which I have two
houses, one which I primarily use as an
office and the other as a residence, and
also an investment in what was my
mother's home, not very much of a place
but I do own it-those three pieces of
property.
I want to say first, that is all I have.
I am the first President since Harry Tru-
man who hasn't owned any stock since
ever I have been President. I am the first
one who has not had a blind trust since
Harry Truman. Now, that doesn't prove
that those who owned stocks or had blind
trusts did anything wrong. But I felt that
in the Presidency it was important to have
no question about the President's personal
finances, and I thought real estate was the
best place to put it.
But then, the question was raised by
good editorial writers-and I want to re-
spond to it because some of you might be
too polite to ask such an embarrassing
question-they said, "Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, you earned $800,000 when you were
President. Obviously, you paid at least
half that much or could have paid half
that much in taxes or a great deal of it—
how could you possibly have had the
money? Where did you get it?”
And then, of course, overriding all of
that is the story to the effect that I have a
million dollars in campaign funds, which
955
