[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
possible among all the major coun-
tries of Asia, and this is the objective
of United States policy.
-Both the United States and India are
interested in defining a new basis for
a mature economic relationship be-
tween us over the longer term. In
October 1972, the United States
joined in a program to reschedule the
Indian debt under the aegis of the
World Bank, and in March 1973 we
lifted the suspension imposed in De-
cember 1971 on the flow of $87.6
million in past development loans.
For the future, both sides are now
interested in how to move toward
Indian self-reliance. This raises the
issues of the role of U.S. development
assistance, our trade relations, our
consultation on world trade and
monetary issues that affect Indian in-
terests, and our common interest in
promoting economic development on
the subcontinent and elsewhere in
Asia. A new framework for this eco-
nomic relationship is a fruitful topic
for our dialogue.
Our dialogue has now begun. Secretary
Connally, on his visit to New Delhi,
Dacca, and Islamabad last Julv, had frank
and important talks on my behalf with
Prime Minister Gandhi and her govern-
ment's leaders. Indian Finance Minister
Chavan consulted with Secretary Shultz
in Washington in March 1973 on trade
and monetary issues. Ambassador Moyni-
han's cordial reception in India was a sign
that the passage of time and constructive
attitudes on both sides have laid a foun-
dation for a serious improvement in our
relations. The recent discussions which
Deputy Secretary of State Rush had in
New Delhi on his trip to South Asia con-
firmed this.
We both understand, of course, that the
issue is not one of communication or at-
mosphere. Our differences in 1971 in-
jected a healthy realism and maturity into
the U.S.-Indian relationship. We can deal
with each other now without sentimen-
tality and without the illusion that because
we are both great democracies our foreign
policies must be the same. Nor do great
nations decide their policies on the
ephemeral criterion of popularity. We
have our interests and responsibilities:
India's policy choices are for India to
make. Good relations will come not from
an identity of policies, but from respect
for each other's concerns and a conscious-
ness of the basic interest we share in global
peace.
The Smaller Nations of South Asia. The
smaller nations of South Asia are part of
the regional system, and their well-being
and independence are important to it. We
do not view them as part of any country's
sphere of influence. They have a right to
their independence and non-alignment
and a right to remain neutral with respect
to the problems of their larger neighbors.
Each has its own character, aspirations,
and problems, and we seek relationships
with each one on the basis of mutual
respect.
We welcome the improvement in our
relations with Sri Lanka in the past few
years. Sri Lanka has strengthened its in-
ternal stability, and we hope to maintain
and expand our cooperation and to assist
Sri Lanka's progress. The United States
joined with many other nations to assist
Afghanistan in its recovery from a two-
year drought and we will continue our
cooperation in its economic development.
We have assisted Nepal in its efforts to
modernize its agriculture and transport,
and we will welcome the opportunity to
458
