[53] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Finally, we now have a new system of
wage and price controls-one that is the
right kind of system for 1973.
FIRM CONTROLS IN FORCE; FOOD
PRICES FOUGHT
Any idea that controls have virtually
been ended is totally wrong. We still have
firm controls. We are still enforcing them
firmly. All that has changed is our method
of enforcing them.
The old system depended on a Wash-
ington bureaucracy to approve major
wage and price increases in advance.
Although it was effective while it lasted,
this system was beginning to produce in-
equities and to get tangled in red tape.
The new system will avoid these dangers.
Like most of our laws, it relies largely on
self-administration, on the voluntary co-
operation of the American people.
But if some people should fail to coop-
erate, we still have the will and the means
to crack down on them.
To any economic interests which might
feel that the new system will permit them,
openly or covertly, to achieve gains beyond
the safety limits we shall prescribe, let me
deliver this message in clear and unmis-
takable terms:
We will regard any flouting of our anti-
inflationary rules and standards as noth-
ing less than attempted economic arson
threatening our national economic sta-
bility—and we shall act accordingly.
We would like Phase III to be as volun-
tary as possible. But we will make it as
mandatory as necessary.
Our new system of controls has broad
support from business and labor—the key-
stone for any successful program. It will
prepare us for the day when we no longer
need controls. It will allow us to con-
centrate on those areas where inflation
has been most troublesome construction,
health care and especially food prices.
We are focusing particular attention
and action on the tough problem of food
prices. These prices have risen sharply
at the wholesale level in recent months, so
that figures for retail prices in January
and February will inevitably show sharp
increases. In fact, we will probably see in-
creases in food prices for some months to
come.
The underlying cause of this problem is
that food supplies have not risen fast
enough to keep up with the rapidly rising
demand.
But we must not accept rising food
prices as a permanent feature of Ameri-
can life. We must halt this inflationary
spiral by attacking the causes of rising food
prices on all fronts. Our first priority
must be to increase supplies of food to
meet the increasing demand.
We are moving vigorously to expand
our food supplies:
-We are encouraging farmers to put
more acreage into production of both
crops and livestock.
-We are allowing more meat and dried
milk to come in from abroad.
-We have ended subsidies for agricul-
tural exports.
-And we are reducing the Govern-
ment's agricultural stockpiles and encour-
aging farmers to sell the stock they own.
Measures such as these will stop the rise
of wholesale food prices and will slow the
rise of retail food prices. Unfortunately,
nothing we can do will have a decisive
effect in the next few months. But the
steps I have taken will have a powerful
effect in the second half of the year.
These steps will also help our farmers
to improve their incomes by producing
120
