[232] Aug. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
232 Statement on Signing a Highway and Mass Transit
Bill. August 13, 1973
THE Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973,
which I sign into law today, represents a
significant extension and reform of the
Federal highway program. As a consistent
supporter of that program over the years
and as a strong proponent of improve-
ments in that program which are em-
bodied in S. 502, I am particularly pleased
to sign this legislation.
S. 502 continues the strong tradition of
Federal-State cooperation in building
American highways. But this act is not
only a highway act. One of its most sig-
nificant features is that it allows the High-
way Trust Fund to be used for mass transit
capital improvements. This landmark pro-
vision is one that I have urged for some
time and one that I recommended with
special emphasis in four different mes-
sages to the Congress earlier this year.
Under this act, for the first time, States
and localities will have the flexibility they
need to set their own transportation prior-
ities. The law will enable them at last to
relieve congestion and pollution problems
by developing more balanced transporta-
tion systems where that is appropriate
rather than locking them into further
highway expenditures which can some-
times make such problems even worse.
In addition to using the Highway Trust
Fund to achieve these purposes, the act
also allows State and local officials to sub-
stitute mass transit projects for certain
urban interstate highway segments which
are controversial and nonessential. The
legislation also provides the $3 billion I
requested for funding the Urban Mass
Transportation Act.
S. 502 contains several other features
which accord with important Adminis-
tration objectives. It provides a new 3-
year authorization for Federal-aid high-
ways; it earmarks a portion of urban
highway funding for areas with popula-
tions of more than 200,000; it cuts red-
tape and improves efficiency by giving
more authority to the States and by in-
creasing planning funds. I am pleased that
the bill also designates several links of the
interstate network forming a coast to coast
route as the Dwight D. Eisenhower High-
way, a fitting tribute to the father of the
interstate highway system.
I regret that the Congress has exceeded
my budget proposals in this bill and has
included a number of special narrow cate-
gorical grant programs at a time when
it is particularly important for us to trim
back on the budget and the bureaucracy.
Nevertheless, I am aware that funding
levels have been cut back considerably
from earlier versions of the bill, and I
am gratified that certain other elements,
particularly an anti-impoundment provi-
sion and mass transit operating subsidies,
were eliminated from the final version. Al-
together, I believe this act reflects a spirit
of constructive cooperation between the
Congress and the Administration, and I
am confident that the act can be properly
administered so as to not violate my com-
mitment to a noninflationary budget.
The legislation I sign today represents
an important forward step for our coun-
try, not only in providing for better and
more balanced transportation but also in
related fields such as environmental pro-
tection, highway safety, energy conserva-
tion, and community development. I am
690
