Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 12 [328]
caused the conversations not to be re-
corded. The search and investigation were
not finally completed until October 27.
One of the conversations for which no
recording could be found was a 4-minute
telephone call I made to John Mitchell on
the evening of June 20, 1972. The only
telephone calls which were recorded in the
residence of the White House were those
made in the Lincoln Sitting Room, which
I use as an office. Telephone conversa-
tions in the family quarters have never
been recorded during this Administra-
tion. The telephone call with John
Mitchell was one that I made on the
telephone in the family quarters just be-
fore going in to dinner, and consequently,
it was not recorded.
My conversation with John Dean on
Sunday evening, April 15, 1973, was not
recorded because the tape on the record-
ing machine for my Executive Office
Building office was used up and ran out
earlier in the day. The tape which was on
the operating recorder on Sunday,
April 15, 1973, contains recordings of the
conversations in my Executive Office
Building office on Saturday, April 14,
1973. It also contains a portion of the first
conversation I had in that office on Sun-
day, April 15, 1973, which was with At-
torney General Kleindienst. During that
conversation the tape ran out. Normally,
I see very few people in my Executive
Office Building office on the weekends.
However, on the weekend of April 14 and
15, the activity in my Executive Office
Building office was unusual and un-
anticipated. Certain reports made to me
by my staff early in the morning of
April 14, 1973, led me to have lengthy
discussions with staff members during the
day in my office in the Executive Office
Building. In addition, international de-
velopments required a lengthy meeting
with my Assistant for National Security
Affairs late that morning.
On Sunday, April 15, 1973, I began an-
other series of meetings in my Executive
Office Building office at about I p.m. The
first meeting was with Attorney General
Kleindienst. Thereafter the meetings con-
tinued until late in the evening with the
exception of a break of about 2 hours for
dinner. I did not meet with John Dean
until approximately 9 o'clock that eve-
ning. Since the tape on the recorder for
my Executive Office Building office had
run out during my afternoon meeting with
Attorney General Kleindienst, the Dean
meeting was not recorded.
It should be pointed out that the court
order calls for evidentiary materials such
as notes and memoranda in addition to
recordings of specified conversations. The
court order spells out a detailed proce-
dure for turning materials over for Judge
Sirica's private review. In recent days, in
an effort to locate materials for the court,
a diligent search has been made for
materials that might shed further light on
the substance of the conversations in ques-
tion, including the unrecorded conversa-
tions with John Mitchell on June 20,
1972, and with John Dean, on the evening
of April 15, 1973.
Since I have been in office, I have main-
tained a personal diary file which consists
of notes which I have personally taken
during meetings and of dictation belts on
which I record recollections. The dicta-
tion belts and notes are placed in my per-
sonal diary file by my secretary. They are
sealed under specific instructions that they
not be transcribed.
In the course of searching my personal
931
