[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
would aid rather than challenge the
courts. Last year I proposed legislation
designed to achieve this goal. I will con-
tinue to work with the Congress in an
effort to enact legislation which will end
involuntary busing for purposes of racial
balance and concentrate our effort on true
opportunity in education.
WELFARE REFORM
Another critical need in the human re-
source area is to overhaul our welfare
system. Earlier this year I directed that
vigorous steps be taken to strengthen the
management of the welfare program
through administrative measures and
legislative proposals. I have further di-
rected that the study of legislative pro-
posals include a review not only of the
basic welfare program but also its rela-
tionship to other programs designed to
assist low-income families, such as food
stamps, public housing and medicaid.
That study is now going forward, and I
will be reviewing its results in the weeks
ahead.
MANPOWER TRAINING AND RELATED
LEGISLATION
A second basic concern of public policy
in the area of human resources involves
the effort to guarantee to all our people
the opportunity and satisfaction of work-
ing at a good job for a good wage. The
Administration and the Congress have
worked together effectively to foster the
economic expansion which has now
brought our total employment to record
levels and has raised real wages signifi-
cantly. In addition, we have taken impor-
tant steps to improve the quality of the
work environment. These steps have in-
cluded passage of the landmark Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Act of 1970 and
a major overhaul of the unemployment
insurance system.
But much remains to be done, espe-
cially for those workers on the fringes of
the labor force whose low skills or other
disadvantages leave them "on the outside
looking in." Massive Federal aid in the
manpower training field, as in education,
dates from the 1960's and here, too, it
has become clear from the perspective of
the 1970's that reform must be the order
of the day. A special revenue sharing ap
proach permitting States and communities
to tailor their own programs to local needs
will get better results for the dollar than
those achieved by inflexible categorical
grant programs designed in Washington.
In the face of Congressional rejection
of my proposals in this area in 1971 and
1972, I directed the Secretary of Labor
last January to implement administra-
tively the principles of manpower revenue
sharing, in so far as possible under exist-
ing law. That effort is now going forward,
but I am certainly prepared to work with
the Congress to achieve this same goal
through legislation.
Working men and women will also be
looking to the Congress this fall for action
on three other bills which the Administra-
tion is requesting in their interest:
-The Job Security Assistance Act,
which would establish minimum
benefit levels for State unemplov-
ment compensation programs and
extend coverage to farm workers:
-The Vocational Rehabilitation Act
amendments, which would extend
and improve job training programs
for the handicapped, taking the place
of an earlier measure whose severe
over-spending provisions and pro-
774
