Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [233]
political campaign is always a hard and
a tough contest. A candidate for high
office has an obligation to his party, to
his supporters, and to the cause he repre-
sents. He must always put forth his best
efforts to win. But he also has an obliga-
tion to the country to conduct that con-
test within the law and within the limits
of decency.
No political campaign ever justifies
obstructing justice, or harassing individ-
uals, or compromising those great agencies
of Government that should and must be
above politics. To the extent that these
things were done in the 1972 campaign,
they were serious abuses, and I deplore
them.
Practices of that kind do not represent
what I believe government should be, or
what I believe politics should be. In a
free society, the institutions of government
belong to the people. They must never
be used against the people.
And in the future, my Administration
will be more vigilant in ensuring that such
abuses do not take place and that officials
at every level understand that they are
not to take place.
And I reject the cynical view that poli-
tics is inevitably or even usually a dirty
business. Let us not allow what a few over-
zealous people did in Watergate to tar
the reputation of the millions of dedicated
Americans of both parties who fought
hard but clean for the candidates of their
choice in 1972. By their unselfish efforts,
these people make our system work and
they keep America free.
I pledge to you tonight that I will do
all that I can to ensure that one of the
results of Watergate is a new level of po-
litical decency and integrity in America—
in which what has been wrong in our
politics no longer corrupts or demeans
what is right in our politics.
Let me turn now to the difficult ques-
tions that arise in protecting the national
security.
It is important to recognize that these
are difficult questions and that reason-
able and patriotic men and women may
differ on how they should be answered.
Only last year, the Supreme Court said
that implicit in the President's constitu-
tional duty is "the power to protect our
Government against those who would sub-
vert or overthrow it by unlawful means."
How to carry out this duty is often a deli-
cate question to which there is no easy
answer.
For example, every President since
World War II has believed that in internal
security matters, the President has the
power to authorize wiretaps without first
obtaining a search warrant.
An act of Congress in 1968 had seemed
to recognize such power. Last year the
Supreme Court held to the contrary. And
my Administration is, of course, now com-
plying with that Supreme Court decision.
But until the Supreme Court spoke, I had
been acting, as did my predecessors-Pres-
ident Truman, President Eisenhower,
President Kennedy, and President John-
son-in a reasonable belief that in certain
circumstances the Constitution permitted
and sometimes even required such meas-
ures to protect the national security in
the public interest.
Although it is the President's duty to
protect the security of the country, we,
of course, must be extremely careful in the
way we go about this for if we lose our
liberties we will have little use for security.
Instances have now come to light in which
a zeal for security did go too far and did
695
