Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 6 [31]
help, and I pledge to do my part to
achieve a constructive working relation-
ship with the Congress. My sincere hope
is that the executive and legislative
branches can work together in this great
undertaking in a positive spirit of mutual
respect and cooperation.
Working together the Congress, the
President and the people-I am confident
that we can translate these proposals into
an action program that can reform and re-
vitalize American Government and, even
more important, build a better life for all
Americans.
The White House,
February 2, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the first in a series of
six messages to the Congress on the state of the
Union. The other messages are printed as Items
44, 53, 61, 73, and 79.
30 Memorandum About the Annual Report on Federal
Executive Boards. February 5, 1973
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
The 11th Annual Report on Federal
Executive Boards reflects a solid record of
accomplishment. Clearly, these boards of-
fer a useful means of focusing the energies
and talents of senior Federal executives
across the Nation on areas of special
concern.
As we move toward a more decentrali-
zation of the Federal establishment, the
responsibility of Federal officials in the
field will increase. It is incumbent upon
to ensure that these Boards are
equipped to respond quickly to Federal
initiatives and that they enjoy a high de-
gree of cooperation across the traditional
lines of Federal authority.
I would like you to call to the attention
of all senior officials in the field the at-
tached
report on FEB activity and inform
them of my strong personal endorsement
of the FEB concept. I hope you will also
express my appreciation to all of those
whose efforts made fiscal year 1972 a
successful one for Federal Executive
Boards.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The 11-page report was prepared by the
Office of Management and Budget.
31 Toasts of the President and King Hussein of Jordan.
February 6, 1973
Your Majesties, and our very distin-
guished guests:
As we sit here at this table tonight, my
thoughts go back, and Mrs. Nixon's
thoughts, Secretary Rogers' thoughts, par-
ticularly go back to the year 1959 when
His Majesty first came to this country as
the King of Jordan and was received here
by President Eisenhower.
I was trying in my mind's eye to think
of that evening. The tables were some-
what like this. President Eisenhower was
sitting in this place and His Majesty was
sitting in this place. And as Vice Presi-
77
