Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 4 [245]
NOTE: John Ford, 78, died in Palm Desert,
Calif.
Mr. Ford directed 133 films in a period of
over 50 years. He won Academy Awards for his
245
direction of "The Informer," "The Grapes of
Wrath," "How Green Was My Valley," and
"The Quiet Man.”
See also Item 101.
Remarks at the Swearing In of William E. Colby as
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
September 4, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are ready to swear in the new Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Judge Hart.
[At this point, George L. Hart, Jr., United
States District Judge for the District of Colum-
bia, administered the oath of office. The Presi-
dent then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, you all know
Mr. Colby's background, his background
as a distinguished public servant over
many years and in the CIA.
We find that in making appointments
of this sort, when we can find what we
think is a true professional in the best
sense of the word, that we prefer that
kind of appointment, and Mr. Colby met
all the qualifications, and his appointment
has met with, I would say, almost univer-
sal acclaim, certainly within that agency,
and with a very overwhelming vote, I
think too, in the Senate.
I would point this out, too, that his
career of service in the CIA is not as well
known as most, because as we all know,
in that particular organization your suc-
cesses usually must remain unknown and
your failures become known.
I would say, though, in the case of Mr.
Colby, he is an exception to the rule in
one sense that he had a very distin-
guished career, when I first met him, in
directing our pacification program in
Vietnam. And we now find that that
country, the 17 million people of that
country, are benefiting from all the years
of hard work put in by the people under
your direction and others in building
South Vietnam into a viable peacetime
country where it is now paying off.
So, the Nation is grateful for your serv-
ice in the past, and I know that we will
profit from your service in the future as
the head of this organization.
MR. COLBY. Thank you very much, Mr.
President. I appreciate very much the
honor and confidence that you showed in
appointing me to this duty. I take it as
a major charge to fulfill both of the mean-
ings of the word "intelligence." The one,
the official meaning of an intelligence or-
ganization which provides the facts and
presents them to you so that you know
what is going on in the world, but the
second meaning is the application of the
human quality of intelligence to be able
to analyze facts and come out with assess-
ments and judgments about them.
I hope that the CIA and the whole of
the intelligence community will truly serve
you and, through you, the people of the
United States in protecting our national
security and welfare.
THE PRESIDENT. I will just conclude
by saying, Mr. Colby, that I have often
said to other directors-to Allen Dulles,
731
