Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Eliminating the periodic requirement to
renegotiate a temporary arrangement
with only one ally would strengthen the
solidarity of the Alliance as a whole.
The Role of United States Forces. The
efforts undertaken by our allies since 1970
are the basis for my pledge to maintain
our NATO commitments. At the NATO
Council meeting last December, I re-
affirmed my position:
"In light of the present strategic bal-
ance and of similar efforts by our allies,
we will not only maintain but improve
our forces in Europe and will not reduce
them unless there is reciprocal action by
our adversaries."
This pledge rests on a fundamental view,
as valid today as it has been since World
War II, that the security of Western
Europe is inseparable from our own.
The conditions of this decade require
the United States to maintain substantial
forces in Europe. In conditions of near
strategic parity, a strong capability to de-
fend with non-nuclear forces becomes in-
creasingly important; the United States
contributes about one-quarter of NATO's
forces in Europe's vital central region,
though our allies' proportionate share of
forces in the entire European NATO area
is far higher.
The balance of conventional forces in
the center of Europe would be seriously
upset by the unilateral withdrawal of a
substantial number of U.S. forces. Unless
our reductions were completely replaced
by European forces, deterrence would be
weakened. In the event of hostilities, a
weaker conventional defense could con-
front the Alliance with the choice of
either capitulating or using nuclear weap-
ons immediately.
Defense cooperation within Europe may
be a long-term alternative to the Ameri-
can troop contribution. But the pre-
requisite for such an alternative is a far
greater degree of European political
unity. Yet even if such unity develops, it
is unlikely that the Europeans alone could
maintain a strategic balance against the
enormous nuclear power of the Soviet
Union.
In short, disengaging our forces would
risk serious instability in Europe, the con-
sequences of greatly enhanced Soviet in-
fluence, and the dangerous implications
of a greater reliance on nuclear weapons.
If, on the other hand, we and our allies
maintain our strength, we can contribute
to political stability, reduce the likeli-
hood of war, and conduct a credible
diplomacy to negotiate a mutual reduc-
tion of forces.
We cannot enter serious negotiations if,
at the outset, we or our allies allow our
positions to weaken. I intend to maintain
an effective American military contribu-
tion to the alliance and to pursue negotia-
tions for a mutual force reduction that
will create a viable balance in which the
incentives for attack are effectively
eliminated.
Unfinished Tasks. In the past four years
the Alliance has diagnosed some funda-
mental weaknesses and agreed on rem-
edies. In 1971 and 1972 we embarked on
a concerted effort to improve our forces.
The immediate and, in many ways, the
most urgent problem has been faced. We
are now in a position to examine more
systematically some of the longer-term
issues:
-In the later 1970's, all allies will face
the enormous expense of maintaining
more sophisticated equipment, pay-
ing larger costs for personnel, and
maintaining a high degree of combat
409
