[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
goal. They provide our States and com-
munities with the financial assistance they
need-in a way that allows them the free-
dom and the responsibility necessary to use
those funds most effectively.
On October 20, 1972, I signed a pro-
gram of General Revenue Sharing into
law. This program provides State and
local governments with more than $30
billion over a 5-year period beginning
January 1, 1972. This historic shift of
power away from Washington will help
strengthen State and local governments
and permit more local decisionmaking
about local needs.
Although final congressional action was
not taken on my special revenue sharing
proposals, I remain convinced that the
principle of special revenue sharing is es-
sential to continued revitalization of the
federal system. I am, therefore, proposing
the creation of special revenue sharing
programs in the 1974 budget.
These four programs consist of broad-
purpose grants, which will provide State
and local governments with $6.9 billion
to use with considerable discretion in the
areas of education, law enforcement and
criminal justice, manpower training, and
urban community development. They will
replace 70 outmoded, narrower categori-
cal grant programs and will, in most cases,
eliminate matching requirements.
The funds for special revenue sharing
will be disbursed according to formulas
appropriate to each area. In the case of
manpower revenue sharing, an extension
of existing law will be proposed. Current
administrative requirements will be re-
moved so that State and local governments
can group manpower services in ways that
best meet their own local needs.
The inefficiency of the present grant
systems makes favorable action on special
revenue sharing by the Congress an urgent
priority.
SPECIAL REVENUE SHARING, BUDGET
AUTHORITY, FIRST FULL YEAR
Description
Urban community development
Education
Manpower training
Law enforcement
Total. . . .
Billions
2.5
1.3
8
6.9
As an important companion to return-
ing responsibility to State and local gov-
ernments, I proposed to the Congress in
1971 a program to provide funds to help
State and local governments strengthen
their management capabilities to carry out
their expanded role. I am submitting this
important proposal again this year.
The federal system is dynamic, not
static. To maintain its vitality, we must
constantly reform and refine it. The ex-
ecutive branch reorganization and special
revenue sharing programs that I am pro-
posing, along with continued decentrali-
zation of Federal agencies, are essential to
that vitality.
BUILDING A LASTING STRUCTURE
OF PEACE
Building a lasting peace requires much
more than wishful thinking. It can be
achieved and preserved only through
patient diplomacy and negotiation sup-
ported by military strength. To be durable,
peace must also rest upon a foundation
of mutual interest and respect among na-
tions. It must be so constructed that those
who might otherwise be tempted to
destroy it have an incentive to preserve
it.
The 1974 budget supports America's
40
