[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
itary assistance involved primarily the de-
livery of supplies and equipment to the
Laotian forces. These forces carried the
ground combat role and, even in the air
war, the Laotian Air Force provided much
of the air support.
With the conclusion of a ceasefire in
Laos, we look forward toward reductions
in U.S. operations and expenditures
there. Since the ceasefire, limited U.S.
military activities in Laos have been con-
ducted at the request of the government.
They were necessitated by and taken in
direct response to North Vietnamese and
Pathet Lao violations of the Laos cease-
fire agreement. Considerable financial as-
sistance will continue to be needed.
-When requested, and within the pro-
visions of the Agreement, we will pro-
vide military supplies so that Laotian
forces can maintain a high level of
readiness in the future.
-We will continue an adequate eco-
nomic aid program to help the Lao
move ahead to better their conditions
and their lives.
-We will include Laos in the overall
reconstruction effort in Indochina
which we consider to be an important
investment in peace.
Hanoi will largely determine whether
the peaceful people of Laos will at long
last gain a respite from conflict and enjoy
a period of tranquility and progress. If
North Vietnam and its allies observe the
ceasefire in Laos, move toward comple-
tion of a definitive settlement, and honor
the obligations of both the Vietnam and
Laos settlements, they will find a forth-
coming response from the Royal Laotian
Government and its friends. If they choose
instead to maintain an aggressive course,
the whole fabric of regional peace will be
jeopardized.
CAMBODIA
Our objectives and our policies in Cam-
bodia run parallel to those in Laos.
We aim for an independent neutral and
stable country. We do not insist on any
particular political orientation, but we
believe any course should be the free
choice of the people themselves, not one
imposed by North Vietnamese arms. Nor
should Cambodia be used as a sanctuary
or staging area for Vietnamese Commu-
nist assaults on South Vietnam.
In light of these objectives, we have
supported the Cambodian government.
That government favors independence,
neutrality, and stability. It is willing to
deal with its indigenous opponents at the
conference table. It is fighting North
Vietnamese aggression not only against
Cambodia but also against South
Vietnam.
The Cambodians, like the Lao, are
clearly innocent victims who wish only to
live in peace. Like the Lao they are carry-
ing the brunt of the battle for their self-
defense, while we supply military and
economic assistance and, when specifically
requested, air support.
The Past Year. Since last year's Report,
there has been little progress in Cambodia.
The military picture has remained spotty
and at times precarious. The Khmer
armed forces have managed to contain
most enemy thrusts and maintain control
of the major population centers. However,
Communist forces have often temporarily
interdicted key routes and lines of com-
munication in an attempt to isolate the
urban areas. This has on occasion gen-
erated short-term needs for airlift or
special land and water convoys to bring
supplies to the capital and other cities.
The mixed security situation in Cam-
400
