Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 12 [76]
making process of the executive branch
could be impaired.
The general policy of this Administra-
tion regarding the use of executive privi-
lege during the next 4 years will be the
same as the one we have followed during
the past 4 years and which I outlined in
my press conference: Executive privilege
will not be used as a shield to prevent em-
barrassing information from being made
available but will be exercised only in
those particular instances in which dis-
closure would harm the public interest.
I first enunciated this policy in a memo-
randum of March 24, 1969, which I sent
to Cabinet officers and heads of agencies.
The memorandum read in part:
"The policy of this Administration is to
comply to the fullest extent possible with
Congressional requests for information.
While the Executive branch has the re-
sponsibility of withholding certain infor-
mation the disclosure of which would be
incompatible with the public interest, this
Administration will invoke this authority
only in the most compelling circumstances
and after a rigorous inquiry into the actual
need for its exercise. For those reasons
Executive privilege will not be used with-
out specific Presidential approval."
In recent weeks, questions have been
raised about the availability of officials
in the executive branch to present testi-
mony before committees of the Congress.
As my 1969 memorandum dealt primarily
with guidelines for providing information
to the Congress and did not focus specifi-
cally on appearances by officers of the
executive branch and members of the
President's personal staff, it would be use-
ful to outline my policies concerning the
latter question.
During the first 4 years of my Presi-
dency, hundreds of Administration offi-
cials spent thousands of hours freely
testifying before committees of the Con-
gress. Secretary of Defense Laird, for in-
stance, made 86 separate appearances
before Congressional committees, engag-
ing in over 327 hours of testimony. By con-
trast, there were only three occasions
during the first term of my Administra-
tion when executive privilege was invoked
anywhere in the executive branch in re-
sponse to a Congressional request for in-
formation. These facts speak not of a
closed Administration, but of one that is
pledged to openness and is proud to stand
on its record.
Requests for Congressional appearances
by members of the President's personal
staff present a different situation and raise
different considerations. Such requests
have been relatively infrequent through
the
years, and in past administrations they
have been routinely declined. I have fol-
lowed that same tradition in my Adminis-
tration, and I intend to continue it during
the remainder of my term.
Under the doctrine of separation of
powers, the manner in which the President
personally exercises his assigned executive
powers is not subject to questioning by
another branch of Government. If the
President is not subject to such question-
ing, it is equally appropriate that members
of his staff not be so questioned, for their
roles are in effect an extension of the
Presidency.
This tradition rests on more than con-
stitutional doctrine: It is also a practical
necessity. To insure the effective discharge
of the executive responsibility, a President
must be able to place absolute confidence
in the advice and assistance offered by the
members of his staff. And in the perform-
ance of their duties for the President, those
staff members must not be inhibited by
185
