[62] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
try, certainly in comparison with this great
country of the United States, tucked away far
from your people and your country, somewhere
in a corner where not everybody in the world
knows exactly where it is-is Israel in Jerusa-
lem, or is Jerusalem in Israel? Some people,
for instance, like the United Nations, still have
Palestine on the agenda.
You don't know probably what it means that
this great Nation and this great people has
shown so much friendship, so much considera-
tion, so much understanding-and has come
to our aid at most critical moments-what this
means to our people, to the young and old.
Very often in our long history, we said to
ourselves, "We are alone." At moments when
nobody else disproved the fact that we were
alone, we drew courage from the fact that we
can be alone altogether and not give up.
We had a very, very tragic history. And yet,
every one of us that studies our history, the
history of the Jewish people, the one thing that
stands out, I believe, which made it possible
for us to be what we are back in our own home,
back to our sovereignty, with difficulties, with
dangers, with worries, with disasters, all this
is true and a long, long history was never
free of all these elements-but somehow we
remained what we are.
We remained ourselves. We didn't run away
from ourselves; we didn't look for easy solu-
tions to run away from facing sometimes very
dangerous situations and very difficult facts.
And even since Israel was reborn, there were
moments when we felt all alone.
When moments like that faced us, we faced
up to it, but no people in the world really
wishes to be all alone, and we are not an
exception.
Mr. President, I don't know whether you
know what it means to Israel today when we
don't have to say we are all alone, when we
know that the greatest country in the world, the
country that understands and practices freedom
more than anywhere else in the world, a coun-
try who still remembers its forefathers that
fought for one thing, for this very simple
thing-to be free, to be free to believe in what
they believed, to practice their faith and to be-
lieve in it, and to practice a life of difficulties
and hardships and pioneering and to build for
the future.
If we had the choice, if people would say to
us, "Look, you can only have one friend in
this world. Choose," I have no doubt whom
we would have chosen. Throughout the years,
in these very recent years, you know very well
what you and your people mean to Israel.
I have personally very many things to be
thankful for in my long life. I include even
the difficulties that I had to face, because I
can honestly say at least one thing: I never
ran away from a difficult situation. I have more
courage to face our young men and women
at home.
We discussed at the table the heroes, the
heroes of the wives and parents of your pris-
oners of war, the joy that we feel, all of us in
the world, that they are coming back to their
families. The difficulty to sit around at home
for me with a group of these young wives—not
very many, thank God, only 13 men in Egypt
and in Syria-but I look at these young women,
with their little children, and their husbands
torn away from them, brave, courageous, or
when I have to face widows, orphans, mothers,
and fathers who have lost their dear ones—in
moments of that kind, I have been able to be
stronger in my ability to face these real heroes
of all nations, because, Mr. President, you have
made it possible for us to know we are not
alone.
And again, I have been privileged-I don't
know why-that in the last few years I should
be the messenger to bring this great message
to my people, young and old, and say to my
people, "We are not alone; we have a friend."
This people, through the man who carries the
greatest burden and highest office, through its
President, made it possible for us to know in the
dangerous position that we still are, that we are
not alone.
For this, Mr. President, for all that you have
done, for your understanding of what we are
striving for, for your not doubting that what we
really want is an honest and real and true and
lasting peace with our neighbors, that the
greatest dream that we are dreaming is to
cooperate with our neighbors, to cross the
borders not with tanks but with tractors, to
help, together with our neighbors, to build
the area that has known so much bloodshed and
so much war and so much destruction, to build
together with our neighbors an area where
150
