Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 3 [228]
large and small, and is free to make full
use of technological innovations.
Events during the last decade, however,
have revealed significant defects in the
operations of our financial institutions. On
two recent occasions when the Federal
Reserve System moved to restrain the
economy, it was found that the inade-
quacies of our financial structures created
unnecessarily severe burdens for the busi-
ness community and the consuming pub-
lic. The consumer-saver was denied a fair
market return on his savings, while the
consumer and small businessman, as bor-
rowers, often could not obtain adequate
funds to meet their requirements.
The inflexibility of our financial system
can be directly attributed to the methods
used by the Government to direct credit
flows-methods designed to meet the de-
pressed economic conditions of the 1930's
but poorly suited to cope with the ex-
pansionary conditions of the past decade.
In recent years, government regulations
have limited the efficiency and flexibility
of our financial system. Ironically, those
regulations that were designed in part to
keep a steady flow of funds moving into
housing loans actually served to diminish
that flow, severely penalizing both the
borrower, who could not find funds, and
the saver who received an unfairly low
return on his savings.
As the Government tries to play its
proper role in building a better financial
system, we must proceed with one basic
assumption: the public interest is gen-
erally better served by the free play of
competitive forces than by the imposition
of rigid and unnecessary regulation.
By law, thrift institutions—a category
primarily composed of savings and loan
associations but also including mutual
savings banks-were created to provide
funds for housing by maintaining large
holdings of residential mortgages. How-
ever, earnings on holdings of previously
acquired mortgages do not respond to
changes in market interest rates. When
market rates rise, the ability of thrift in-
stitutions to attract funds is limited and
their ability to lend additional mortgage
money is diminished.
Attempts to alleviate this problem by
restrictive laws and regulations have
achieved very little at great cost. The
main technique has been to impose ceil-
ings on the interest rates that financial
institutions could pay savers for funds.
The result, however, has often been a re-
duction in the flow of deposits to finan-
cial institutions. In many cases, in fact,
deposits have been withdrawn so that they
could be invested in higher yielding se-
curities. Thus interest ceilings that were
intended as a protective shield for the
housing market turned out instead to be
an additional burden.
Interest rate ceilings proved harmful
to Americans both as savers and as bor-
rowers in the late 1960's. Because the in-
terest rate ceilings for deposits were often
below market interest rates, small savers,
who depended on banks and other saving
institutions, were denied a fair rate of
return on their money. On the borrowing
side, smaller increases in savings deposits
resulted in a sharp drop in loan funds
available to consumers and small business
firms.
Since financial institutions were pro-
hibited from paying better interest rates,
they were forced to compete for customers
in other ways. Much of the public had to
settle for so-called "free services" or even
offers of consumer goods when in fact
they may have preferred to receive higher
interest on their deposits. In addition, such
683
