[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
effort to accelerate experimental programs
and to initiate preliminary reactor design
studies.
While we look to breeder reactors to
meet our mid-term energy needs, today's
commercial power reactors will continue
to provide most of our nuclear generating
capacity for the balance of this century.
Although nuclear reactors have had a re-
markable safety record, my 1974 budget
provides additional funds to assure that
our rapidly growing reliance on nuclear
power will not compromise public
health and safety. This includes work on
systems for safe storage of the radioactive
waste which nuclear reactors produce.
The Atomic Energy Commission is work-
ing on additional improvements in sur-
face storage and will continue to explore
the possibility of underground burial for
long-term containment of these wastes.
Solar energy holds great promise as a
potentially limitless source of clean energy.
My new budget triples our solar energy
research and development effort to a
level of $12 million. A major portion of
these funds would be devoted to ac-
celerating the development of commer-
cial systems for heating and cooling
buildings.
Research and development funds re-
lating to environmental control tech-
nologies would be increased 24 percent in
my 1974 budget. This research includes a
variety of projects related to stack gas
cleaning and includes the construction of
a demonstration sulphur dioxide removal
plant. In addition, the Atomic Energy
Commission and the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency will continue to conduct
research on the thermal effects of power
plants.
While the Federal Government is sig-
nificantly increasing its commitment to
energy research and development, a large
share of such research is and should be
conducted by the private sector.
I am especially pleased that the electric
utilities have recognized the importance
of research in meeting the rapidly escalat-
ing demand for electrical energy. The re-
cent establishment of the Electric Power
Research Institute, which will have a
budget in 1974 in excess of $100 million,
can help develop technology to meet both
load demands and environmental regu-
lations currently challenging the industry.
Historically the electric power indus-
try has allocated a smaller portion of its
revenues to research than have most other
technology-dependent industries. This
pattern has been partly attributable to
the reluctance of some State utility com-
missions to include increased research
and development expenditures in utility
rate bases. Recently the Federal Power
Commission instituted a national rule to
allow the recovery of research and de-
velopment expenditures in rates. State
regulatory agencies have followed the
FPC's lead and are liberalizing their
treatment of research and development
expenditures consistent with our chang-
ing national energy demands.
I am hopeful that this trend will con-
tinue and I urge all State utility commis-
sions to review their regulations regard-
ing research and development expendi-
tures to ensure that the electric utility
industry can fully cooperate in a national
energy research and development effort.
It is foolish and self-defeating to allo-
cate funds more rapidly than they can
be effectively spent. At the same time,
we must carefully monitor our progress
and our needs to ensure that our funding
316
