[130] Apr. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
State and local governments in the most
massive flood-fighting effort of this
century.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers de-
serves considerable credit for its perform-
ance. So far the Corps has provided mate-
rials and assistance for flood mitigation
and prevention amounting to $24 million.
It is estimated that close to $6 billion in
additional damage might have resulted
this spring if extensive flood control works
had not been previously constructed
through combined private and govern-
ment efforts.
I have already issued major disaster
declarations for Missouri, Illinois, and
Mississippi. Today, I am declaring Arkan-
sas and Louisiana disaster areas as well.
I can assure all of the people who live
in the stricken areas that full Federal as-
sistance will be provided as long as
needed. Because farmers have often borne
the brunt of the damage, I have asked
Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz to
make a special inspection tour of the Mis-
sissippi Valley from Moline, Illinois, south
to Greenville, Mississippi, during his trip
to the Midwest next week. He will report
his findings to me upon his return to
Washington. I have also directed the Act-
ing Director of the Office of Emergency
Preparedness, Darrell Trent, to continue
working closely with the Governors of all
the flood-affected States as he has been
doing since the beginning of the emer-
gency and to keep me personally
informed.
Countless acts of heroism and sacrifice
have been performed by the people of
Mississippi and the other States hit by
floods this spring, and remarkable re-
sourcefulness in the face of adversity has
been shown by the various State and local
governments here in the region. I am
confident that the people and commun-
ities concerned can and will make a strong
comeback from this tragedy, and I pledge
full Federal support for their recovery and
rebuilding efforts.
NOTE: The statement was released at Meridian,
Miss.
131 Remarks at the Dedication of the John C. Stennis
Naval Technical Training Center, Meridian,
Mississippi. April 27, 1973
Secretary Richardson, Senator and Mrs.
Stennis, all of the very distinguished guests
here on the platform, and all of the very
distinguished people who are here on this
very special occasion:
Senator Stennis has referred to the fact
that he has seldom seen a crowd quite
this large. I can only say in response to that
that I have seen crowds perhaps almost as
large as this, some a little larger, but,
Senator, I think you and I would agree
that never have we appeared before a
crowd in which more people were behind
us.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, so much has
been said on this occasion with regard to
Senator Stennis, and also by him with re-
gard to me, that it will appear that this
is one of those mutual back-scratching
societies, but I want to speak to you a
moment, if I can, about this State and
about this man and, if I may say so, also
320
