[367] Dec. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
work to improve our programs and as we
modify and update its standards and
regulations.
This year's report includes preliminary
data from the first occupational injury
and illness survey conducted under the
new record-keeping procedures required
by the Act. This data will be helpful in
providing a basis upon which to judge the
effectiveness of our efforts to reduce work-
related injuries, illnesses and fatalities.
This report also reflects the added em-
phasis which has been placed on occu-
pational health during the past year.
Research in this area has increased in re-
sponse to a growing awareness of the
tragic toll taken by employee exposure to
toxic substances and unhealthful physical
environments.
Also included is the first report of the
Occupational Safety and Health Review
Commission, a wholly independent agency
created by the Act to adjudicate citations
and proposed penalties issued by the De-
partment of Labor when they are con-
tested by employers and employees.
This detailed account provides a useful
overall view of the program and its accom-
plishments in 1972. It offers, too, a glimpse
of what lies ahead as we work to assure
safe and healthful working conditions for
all of our country's working men and
women.
The White House,
December 20, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report en-
titled "The President's Report on Occupa-
tional Safety and Health-Including Reports
on Occupational Safety and Health by the
United States Department of Labor, the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Review Com-
mission, and the United States Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare" (Government
Printing Office, 161 pp.).
368 Statement About the Failure of Congress To Enact
Emergency Energy Legislation. December 22, 1973
FROM my own service in the Senate and
House of Representatives I know how
difficult it is, in the closing hours of a ses-
sion, to obtain agreement on controversial,
complex legislation. Therefore, I can un-
derstand the strain and frustration which
marked the unsuccessful Congressional
efforts to enact an emergency energy
act in acceptable form before adjourn-
ment.
Nevertheless, I do regret very much
that during this critical period just ahead
we will not have the emergency powers I
requested to meet the energy crisis, so that
we could proceed more effectively to get
the job done right-and on time.
The great majority of Americans, how-
ever, have already responded in a way that
makes me confident we can get on with
the job even without having the legisla-
tion in place at this time. It will be harder
without the legislation, but it can be done.
We will continue pressing for maximum
voluntary cooperation in conserving en-
ergy, continue our efforts to assure fair-
ness in distribution of available stocks of
fuel, and continue doing all we can, using
existing authorities, to expand produc-
tion of fuel.
When Congress returns in January, I
hope and trust that we can move promptly
toward passage of new legislation that
1022
