[48] Feb. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
As a result of those clubs which this
golf tournament will help fund in the years
ahead, those one million boys, instead of
being on the streets, have a place to play,
in a Boys' Club. And so if you all come,
remember you are supporting a fine char-
ity and we express our appreciation for
that.
Now, I am not through.
MR. GLEASON. My, you are loquacious.
THE PRESIDENT. Second, I want to ex-
press appreciation to celebrities. I do not
mean simply those who play golf, and
they, of course, deserve your applause. We
expect the golfers to be here, because there
is money at the end, but the celebrities-
I see people like Jackie Gleason here, and
Fred MacMurray, Mike Douglas, Joe
DiMaggio, and the others. These celeb-
rities are people who are here contribut-
ing their time. They help to draw the gal-
lery a bit, but they don't only come here,
but wherever there is a good cause, any-
place in America, believe me, you can call
on these people and the others who will
be participating in this tournament and
they will come and contribute their time.
I think the celebrities deserve a hand be-
cause they won't get one at the end of the
tournament.
And now I want to say a word to my
Florida friends. I saw just a little bit of the
end of the [Andy Williams-San Diego
Open] tournament in San Diego yesterday
at Torrey Pines. It was a beautiful day,
75 degrees, the sun was shining. But I had
been in San Clemente--just a little way
from Torrey Pines-a few days before,
and it was just about like this, except it
was a little colder.
So for those who are, as I am, a very
great enthusiast for Florida and also an
enthusiast for California, just let me say,
when the tournament opens, the sun will
be shining, and it will be a very safe
tournament. It will be a very safe
tournament because I have ordered the
Vice President to be in Washington all
next week.
Thank you.
MR. GLEASON. In conclusion, may I
say that if he brought home the POW's,
the sun will shine tomorrow.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at
12:15 p.m. at the Inverrary Golf and Country
Club, site of the annual golf tournament for
the benefit of the Boys' Clubs of America.
In his concluding remarks, the President was
alluding to an incident that occurred in Jan-
uary 1971 at the Bing Crosby National Pro-Am
golf tournament in Pebble Beach, Calif., where
a ball hit by Vice President Agnew accidentally
struck professional golfer Doug Sanders.
49 Informal Exchange With Reporters About a Meeting
With the Executive Council of the AFL-CIO.
February 19, 1973
REPORTER. How did you feel about your
meeting with George Meany and the labor
leaders?
THE PRESIDENT. It was a very con-
structive meeting. We had an opportunity
to talk not only to the executive meeting
but the presidents of some of the inter-
national unions. It was an opportunity to
tell them what the attitudes of the Ad-
ministration would be on the subjects of
major concern to them and to most of the
American people-on questions like trade,
106
