Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Minuteman III missiles with multi-
ple independently targeted warheads
will be deployed by the mid-1970's.
-Development of a new strategic sub-
marine, the Trident, has been under-
taken to provide a highly survivable
replacement for our current ballistic
missile submarines.
-We are developing a generation of
submarine launched missiles with
substantially greater range. With
these new missiles our Trident and
Poseidon submarines will be able to
operate in a much larger ocean area
while still within range of targets,
and thus will be less vulnerable.
-The survivability of B-52 bombers
has been increased by decreasing the
time required for take-off on warn-
ing of an attack and by developing
new basing concepts. This will re-
duce the threat from the growing
force of Soviet ballistic missile sub-
marines.
-We have also begun engineering de-
velopment of the B-1 bomber as a
potential replacement for the aging
B-52s. The B-1 would maintain our
bomber force as an important ele-
ment in our mix of retaliatory forces,
providing assurance against techno-
logical breakthroughs, complicating
an enemy's offensive and defensive
planning, and ensuring flexibility of
response.
-The ABM facility at Grand Forks,
North Dakota, is being completed.
This installation will give us opera-
tional ABM experience while directly
enhancing the survivability of Min-
uteman ICBMs. We will also con-
tinue our planning for the Washing-
ton, D.C. ABM site in order to
provide additional security for the
major control center of our forces.
-Similarly, we are improving facili
ties for command and communica-
tions to control our responses in crisis
situations.
We cannot prudently ignore the long-
term strategic requirements of our secu-
rity. But at the same time we are conscious
of a serious responsibility-to preserve an
environment which enhances stability and
encourages further efforts to limit nuclear
arms. Our forces, therefore, are not de-
signed to provide a capability for a dis-
arming first strike. Moreover, our pro-
grams are not so substantial that our
objectives could be misunderstood, con-
ceivably spurring a Soviet building cycle.
There is not necessarily a direct relation-
ship between every change in the strategic
forces of the two sides. Some changes
reflect an action-reaction cycle in the
strategic arms programs of the two na-
tions. In other cases, the similarity between
American and Soviet forces results simply
from the fact that roughly the same tech-
nologies are employed.
This year we will continue to assess how
to deal more effectively with the impli-
cations of parity and to guard against
unanticipated technological break-
throughs. At the same time, our efforts
will reflect the essential defensive and
deterrent purposes of our doctrine and
forces.
GENERAL PURPOSE FORCES
In a strategic environment of approxi-
mate parity, nuclear weapons alone are
less likely to deter the full range of pos-
sible conflicts. Our success in negotiating
strategic limitations has thus increased the
483
