Richard Nixon, 1973
May 22 [161]
not going to start running now, not in
Southeast Asia, not anywhere around the
globe, wherever people put their trust in
America.
I have seen virtually all of the world—
not to every country but to most of them.
I have seen hundreds of millions of
peo-
ple-young people like those I see here
today, as well as their parents. And as I
see them, I know that the hopes for all
the people in the world—not just the 200
million Americans, but of 3 billion people
in the world—the hopes of all the world's
children for peace-they rest right here
and nowhere else. They rest in our hands,
in America's hands, and believe me, those
hopes rest in good hands, in good hands.
And that whole world today is watch-
ing to see whether the Star-Spangled
161
Banner still waves over the land of the
free and the home of the brave. Well,
together let us prove that it does. Let us
so conduct ourselves at home that we
truly remain the land of the free. And
let us so meet our responsibilities in the
world as to show that we are still, more
than ever, the home of the brave.
And then we can look to the future
with confidence that Armed Forces Day
in the years to come will be not only a
day of pride but also a day of peace for
America and for all the people of the
world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:12 p.m. at
pier 12 on the naval base.
Adm. Douglas C. Plate was Deputy to the
Commander in Chief, Atlantic Fleet.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the President's remarks.
Statement Announcing a Broadened Management
Role for the General Services Administration, and
Selection of Administrator and Deputy Administrator.
May 22, 1973
ONE OF the great challenges of govern-
ing well today is to make the institutions.
of government an efficient servant of the
people, rather than simply a mammoth
machine running by its own momentum.
It is a task that demands all of the mod-
ern management skills we can muster.
In creating the Office of Management
and Budget in 1970, I took a major step
toward upgrading the effectiveness of
management in the Federal executive
branch. My proposals to consolidate and
streamline the domestic Cabinet depart-
ments point in this same direction.
I am now taking additional action to
improve the caliber of management in the
Federal Government. I have directed that
the General Services Administration as-
sume a broader management role by be-
coming the President's principal instru-
ment for developing better systems for
providing administrative support to all
executive branch activities.
This shift of responsibilities is being
accomplished as follows:
-By Executive order [11717], I have
transferred to the General Services Ad-
ministration many functions previously
exercised by the Office of Management
and Budget in the areas of financial
management systems development, pro-
curement, contracting, property man-
agement, and automatic data process-
ing management. GSA now has overall
545
