Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 4 [68]
now, our children will grow up in cities
which are strangled by traffic, raked by
noise, choked by pollution.
By opening up the Highway Trust
Fund today, we can open up great new
vistas for our cities tomorrow.
I have also asked that Federal fund-
ing authority for mass transit capital
grants be doubled from $3 billion to $6
billion. And I recommended that the Fed-
eral share of mass transit projects be
raised to 70 percent.
All of these steps will help us meet the
challenge of mass transit.
Perhaps no program means more to
those it helps than does disaster aid. But it
is not enough for Government merely to
respond to disasters. We should also take
actions to prevent disasters, to reduce
their effect.
I will soon send recommendations to
the Congress to revamp and improve
disaster aid. I hope the Congress will also
support an important proposal I have
already made-moving disaster assist-
ance out of the Executive Office of the
President and into the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, where
it can be coordinated with other com-
munity aid.
Too often, people think of community
development solely in terms of the big
city. In fact, less than 30 percent of our
people live in places with a population of
more than 100,000. This is approximately
the same number who live in rural Amer-
ica. The proportion of our people living in
cities with a population of over 1 million
is no greater today than it was 50 years
ago.
In an age when people move a great
deal, the growth of our great cities and
that of our smaller communities are di-
rectly linked. A balanced approach to
community development must keep small-
town America clearly in sight.
Our Administration will use every ef-
fective means to help develop smaller
communities, to bring new vitality to the
American countryside.
Perhaps the most important factor in
the crisis mentality of the 1960's was the
growing sense on the part of the average
individual that the circumstances of his
life were increasingly beyond his control.
Nothing is more important in improving
our communities than giving people a
sense of control again, letting them know
that they can make a difference in shap-
ing the places where they live.
If the spirit of community means any-
thing, it means a spirit of belonging, a
spirit of responsibility, a spirit of participa-
tion. Restoring this "spirit of community"
is the ultimate purpose of all the commu-
nity development efforts of our Adminis-
tration.
"A great city," Walt Whitman wrote,
"is that which has the greatest men and
women." Only by appealing to the great-
ness that lies within our people can we
build and sustain the kind of communities
we want for America.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President's address was recorded
for broadcast at 12:06 p.m. on nationwide
radio.
On the following day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by six
mayors who had met with the President to
discuss revenue sharing and urban develop-
ment. They were Mayors Pete Wilson of San
Diego, Calif.; John Driggs of Phoenix, Ariz.;
Ben R. Boo of Duluth, Minn.; Stephen May of
Rochester, N.Y.; George Sullivan of Anchor-
age, Alaska; and Carlos Romero Barcelo of
San Juan, P.R.
On March 6, 1973, the White House released
167
