Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
potent threat. As our friends develop
greater local and regional military suffi-
ciency under the Nixon Doctrine the need
for our direct involvement diminishes. In
the meantime, the stabilizing presence of
our forces in the area enhances the wider
framework of security and gives encour-
agement to further allied efforts to de-
velop their capacity for self-defense.
In the current delicate international
balance of forces, I believe our general
purposes forces are now at the minimum
level consistent with our safety and our
interests. However, as we assess our re-
quirements for the late 1970's and beyond,
we will not let the perceptions and ex-
periences of the past drive our planning
for deterrence of wars of the future. We
will ensure that our planning and doctrine
are attuned to the evolving international
situation and to our strategic needs in a
new era.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
Many nations in the world whose se-
curity we consider important to our own
face military challenges, often instigated
or supplied by third countries. A stable
international system requires that small
countries be secure and independent, and
that they be able to protect their security
and independence mainly by their own
efforts.
For this reason, American support of
other nations' defense efforts has always
been a vital component of our security
policy and an essential element in main-
taining international stability. In today's
multipolar world, and as the United
States adjusts its role from one of pre-
ponderance to one of sharing responsi-
bilities more widely, this supportive role
becomes all the more central to our policy.
As great as our resources are, it is
neither possible nor desirable for the
United States to pay most of the costs,
provide most of the manpower, or make
most of the decisions concerning the de-
fense of our allies. Nor, is it necessary.
Our allies are determined to meet the
threats they face as effectively as possible
within the limits of their resources. Under
the Nixon Doctrine, our role in our Se-
curity Assistance programs is to share our
experience, counsel, and technical re-
sources to help them develop adequate
strength of their own.
We provide this support through vari-
ous programs of Security Assistance: grant
military assistance to friendly countries
unable to afford equipment which is es-
sential to their self-defense; foreign mili-
tary sales for cash or credit; and support-
ing assistance, which provides budgetary
support to a few key countries to enable
them to sustain their economies in spite of
unusually heavy defense requirements.
These programs have been a part of
our policy for more than 25 years. They
have met specific needs in a wide variety
of cases. Our programs and means have
reflected a careful and continuing assess-
ment of our interests and needs in chang-
ing conditions.
The success of these programs is strik-
ingly evidenced by the changes over time
in the composition of the program. The
growing self-sufficiency and self-reliance
of our friends-which our assistance is de-
signed to promote-are reflected in the
declining necessity for grant aid and the
dramatic increase in their ability to take
financial responsibility for their defense
needs. Our grant military assistance has
dropped from over $4 billion twenty years
ago to less than $1 billion today, exclu-
sive of South Vietnam. Where once our
program was almost entirely on a grant
487
