Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 26 [274]
273 Message to the Skylab 2 Crew Following Splashdown.
September 25, 1973
AT THE completion of mankind's long-
est journey beyond the boundaries of hu-
man knowledge, I congratulate you on
behalf of all the American people.
The record of your Skylab mission com-
bines the traditions of those great explor-
ers of history who have faced the un-
charted reaches of the physical unknown,
with the traditions of those men of science
who have unlocked the secrets of the uni-
verse and have thus opened the doors to
man's future progress.
By your scientific endeavor and your
physical endurance, you have converted
a space vehicle into a repository of more
scientific knowledge than mankind can
immediately consume. In doing so, you
have provided the basis for a quantum
jump in human knowledge.
As we salute you in your moment of
personal triumph and of our national
pride, we are mindful of the men and
women whose contributions made your
own accomplishments possible-your col-
leagues in the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, in the armed serv-
ices and the civilian scientific community,
and the men and women of America's vast
technological and industrial establish-
ment. Your accomplishments reflect the
power and potential of the American
democracy at its best: out of the efforts
of many, individual accomplishment is
made possible, and from the deeds of the
individual, all benefit.
We welcome you back to Earth and
back home to the United States of
America.
NOTE: The message was relayed to astronauts
Capt. Alan L. Bean, USN, Dr. Owen K. Gar-
riott, and Maj. Jack R. Lousma, USMC, on
board the recovery ship U.S.S. New Orleans.
274 Statement on Signing the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
September 26, 1973
IT IS doubly gratifying for me to be able
to sign into law today the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973-first, because of the good the
act will do in helping hundreds of thou-
sands of our disabled citizens attain self-
sufficiency, and secondly, because of the
encouraging example which our agree-
ment on legislation sets for future execu-
tive-legislative cooperation.
My decisions last October and again
this past March to veto earlier vocational
rehabilitation bills sent me by the Congress
were painful ones, for I knew that in each
case the intentions were generous even
though imperfectly realized and that the
beneficiaries involved were deserving. For
precisely those reasons, however, I felt it
would be worth the extra time and effort
to obtain legislation that could truly live
up to its promises.
The process of hammering out a com-
promise on this matter was long and diffi-
cult. It is heartening, however, that nei-
ther the Congress nor the Administration
allowed the smoke of legislative skirmishes
to obscure the goal we have shared from
the first-that of continuing and improv-
ing a program which has long been one of
the most humanitarian and effective of
all Federal grant activities. The com-
823
