Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
tists from all nations are being invited
to share in the humanitarian work of these
centers.
Chemical Arms Control. This Admin-
istration remains firmly committed to
achieving effective international restraints
on chemical weapons.
During the past year the United States
played a leading role in the discussion of
chemical weapons controls at the Con-
ference of the Committee on Disarma-
ment in Geneva. We presented a compre-
hensive work program on the prohibition
of chemical weapons and several techni-
cal studies of this subject.
The basic problem is that several na-
tions may have these weapons and the
capacity to produce them is widespread. It
is exceedingly difficult to verify existing
stocks, let alone their reduction, or to dis-
tinguish between civilian and military
production. Furthermore, however re-
mote the threat may be that any nation
would use chemical weapons offensively,
that threat must be countered with certain
defensive capabilities.
The major issue is whether competition
will continue or whether, as in SALT,
some partial measures can be adopted to
facilitate more comprehensive measures.
Comprehensive Test Ban. The United
States has continued to support the objec-
tive of an adequately verified agreement
to ban all nuclear weapons testing.
Some countries maintain that national
means of verification would be sufficient
to monitor such a ban with confidence.
We disagree. Despite substantial progress
in detecting and identifying seismic events,
including underground nuclear tests, we
believe that national means of verification
still should be supplemented by some on-
site inspection.
The United States shares the view of
many other nations that an adequately
verified comprehensive test ban would be
a positive contribution to moderating the
arms race. For this reason we are giving
high priority to the problem of verifica-
tion. We will continue to cooperate with
other nations in working toward eventual
agreement on this important issue.
The responsibility for controlling arms
does not rest with the great powers alone.
As the United States and the Soviet Union
seek to curb the nuclear arms race, and
the nations with forces in Central Europe
seek to reduce conventional forces, other
countries should develop regional arms
control arrangements which will enhance
mutual security and reduce the danger of
local conflicts. External powers should re-
spect such arrangements by restricting the
flow of weapons into such areas. The
United States is prepared to do so.
PART VII: NEW INTERNATIONAL
CHALLENGES
-The United Nations
-The Global Challenges of Peace
THE UNITED NATIONS
In this increasingly interdependent
world, a more effective United Nations
continues to be an important goal of our
diplomacy. There is no inconsistency be-
tween our search for a better equilibrium
among the major powers and our commit-
ment to global cooperation through world-
wide institutions. Success in adjusting and
improving big power relationships should
reinforce the multilateral framework in
which all nations can work together in
dealing with worldwide problems.
We should not exaggerate the present
capacity of the United Nations for strong
501
