[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
can system. We should leave to those who
will inherit our works a structure of peace-
ful cooperation more effective than the
one we found.
A number of bilateral and multilateral
problems call for urgent attention. If we
can solve them, or at least move toward
their solution, we can create a new and
positive atmosphere in our hemisphere.
The single most important irritant in
relations with our nearest Latin neighbor,
Mexico, is the high salinity of the waters
of the Colorado River diverted to Mexico
under our 1944 Water Treaty. I discussed
this matter with President Echeverría last
June. My personal representative, former
Attorney General Herbert Brownell, has
been working intensively on this problem
and has made his recommendations to
me. We shall soon be presenting our Mex-
ican neighbors with what I hope will be
a permanent, definitive, and just solution.
With mutual understanding and common
efforts, I believe this problem can be re-
moved from the agenda of outstanding
issues.
Another serious problem, of deep con-
cern to every responsible government, is
the illegal flow of narcotics across national
boundaries. Some of these drugs are pro-
duced in the Western Hemisphere. And
some Latin American countries have been
used by international drug traffickers
as a channel for drugs from Europe, the
Middle East, and Asia into this hemi-
sphere and on to the United States.
Over the past year, we and many Latin
American governments have made inten-
sive efforts to restrict this dangerous flow.
Our common effort has taken a variety of
forms: special training for customs and
immigration agents; improved equipment
ranging from two-way radios to heli-
copters: exchanges of intelligence data:
tightened anti-drug laws; extradition
treaties, and others. It is vitally important
that we press forward with the campaign
to destroy this dangerous traffic which
menaces us all, especially our young.
Another international issue that con-
fronts the Americas, as well as the rest of
the world community, concerns the law of
the sea. Every country, whether or not it
touches on an international body of wa-
ter, is affected. The problems include: the
extent to which any nation can claim
adjoining waters as its territorial sea; the
proper limit on each nation's control over
the resources in and under the sea; guar-
antees of the rights of free passage through
international straits and other naviga-
tional freedoms; the preservation of the
marine environment; and the status of
traditional high seas freedoms. Resolution
of these and many related questions are of
profound importance to all nations.
Political, economic, and security interests
of the highest sensitivity will have to be
considered.
An international conference on the law
of the sea will soon be convened to con-
sider and solve these complicated prob-
lems. We know it will not be easy. But we
know, too, that an effective agreement
that deals equitably with the vital con-
cerns of all nations would be a landmark
in international affairs.
In the Americas, maritime disputes
have centered on the question of fishing
rights in waters that we consider to be
beyond the limits of national jurisdiction
which a state may claim under interna-
tional law, but that some of our neighbors
claim as their territorial seas or exclusive
resource zones. These differences have
sometimes led to confrontations, including
the seizure of U.S. fishing boats and the
imposition of heavy fines. Neither party to
442
