Richard Nixon, 1973
June 5 [171]
So as we drink our toast tonight, let us
think of the relations between Liberia
and America that go back so many years.
Let us think of the broader concept of the
relations between the United States and
all the new states of Africa that have had
their independence over the past 10 to
15 years. And let us think finally of our
very good friend, President Tolbert, one
who has been a friend of this country
from the time he has been in public life,
and one who is now a leader of Africa
and, being a leader of Africa, one who
speaks for the best that is in Africa and
also the best for us, too.
To President Tolbert. Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:52 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
President Tolbert responded as follows:
President Nixon, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
ladies and gentlemen:
In a world of demanding challenges, there
is responsibility enough for everyone, and all
must welcome the opportunity to change for
the better the tenor of human life. In line with
this vision, therefore, men in open relief are
moving away from years of protracted con-
frontation into an era of reconciliation and
responsibility.
We seem now, after so long, actually to be
building that better world, and there is no
greater builder than you, Mr. President. That
is why it is so fulfilling to come here to the
White House to break bread and sip wine to-
gether, even though I sip water, with men and
women who, in fact, must share a deep sense
of dedication to the welfare of this planet.
It is also fulfilling to be here because we
know that we are in the company of good, old
friends. Our trip has been a long one, starting
on the west coast of Africa, speeding on that
chartered aircraft, really speeding. We first at-
tended in Ethiopia the 10th anniversary cele-
bration of the Organization of African Unity.
Then a few days ago we arrived on the west
coast of America, having been invited to speak
to the graduating class of California State
University at San Francisco.
Our Government has had a 10-year contract
with that institution under which we have
been building together a consolidated school
system for our capital city, Monrovia.
From the west coast of the United States, an-
other jet craft symbolizing the Spirit of '76
brought us to this place and this time. And
tonight we are gathered here in this most
significant, historic setting to savor a few
moments of quiet intimacy with friends we have
known and highly esteemed for a long time.
Richard Nixon and I first met when he
served President Eisenhower as a faithful Vice
President, and in that capacity he visited
Liberia. Again, it was my pleasure to enjoy his
company when he paid a private visit to our
country. Even as a private citizen, his interest
and affection for Africa continued to be posi-
tively demonstrated.
Over the interim years our contacts have
remained most cordial and fruitful, and no
moment in this long relationship was more
pleasant than when we had the singular honor
of receiving Mrs. Nixon, the charming wife of
our dear friend, at my inauguration in Mon-
rovia in January of 1972, on which occasion
she indeed represented you, Mr. President,
with warmth and distinction. Her visit to
Liberia and to the Republics of the Ivory Coast
and Ghana, so widely heralded in various news
reports, will long be cherished in the hearts of
African people.
So Mrs. Tolbert and I are extremely de-
lighted to be here, and we highly appreciate
and are grateful to our friends, President and
Mrs. Nixon, for this splendid opportunity.
At one single setting we can recognize that
the record of long, private friendship with his-
toric Americans is inclusive of a longer national
relationship between our two countries, and we
can declare with sincerity that our exhilaration
in the company of old friends is matched in
intensity only by our steadfast quest for new
aspirations and new destinies.
At the celebration of its Bicentennial in
1976, the United States of America will be
only 71 years older than the Republic of
Liberia, her traditional ally in Africa.
Throughout the years, the relationship be-
tween our two countries has been repeatedly
described as unique, as special. We befitting-
ly acknowledge the special quality of that
relationship.
After all, the whole concept of the founding
31-870 O 75 - 40
-
575
