[207] July 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Phase III will remain in force. Notifica-
tion of wage increases will continue to be
required for large employment units.
These are, we recognize, tough rules,
in some respects tougher than during
Phase II. But the situation is also in many
ways more difficult than during Phase
II. So long as the system is regarded as
temporary, however, we believe that busi-
ness can continue to prosper, industrial
peace can be maintained, and production
continue to expand under these rules.
Machinery will be established in the Cost
of Living Council to consider the need for
exceptions from these rules where they
may be causing serious injury to the econ-
omy. And we will be prepared to consider
modification of the rules themselves when
that seems necessary or possible.
THE SPECIAL CASE OF FOOD
Nowhere have the dilemmas of price
control been clearer than in the case of
food. In the early part of this year, rising
food prices were the largest part of the
inflation problem, statistically and psycho-
logically. If price restraint was needed
anywhere, it was needed for food. But
since the ceilings were placed on meat
prices on March 29, and especially since
the freeze was imposed on June 13, food
has given the clearest evidence of the
harm that controls do to supplies. We
have seen baby chicks drowned, pregnant
sows and cows, bearing next year's food,
slaughtered, and packing plants closed
down. This dilemma is no coincidence.
It is because food prices were rising most
rapidly that the freeze held prices most
below their natural level and therefore
had the worst effect on supplies.
We must pick our way carefully be-
tween a food price policy so rigid as to cut
production sharply and to make shortages
inevitable within a few months and a food
price policy so loose as to give us an un-
necessary and intolerable bulge. On this
basis we have decided on the following
special rules for food:
1. Effective immediately, processors
and distributors of food, except beef, may
increase their prices, on a cents-per-unit
basis, to the extent of the increase of costs
of raw agricultural products since the
freeze base period (June 1-8.
2. Beef prices remain under present
ceilings.
3. The foregoing special rules expire
on September 12, after which time the
same rules that apply to other products
will apply to foods.
4. Raw agricultural products remain
exempt from price control.
To relieve the extreme high prices of
feeds, which have an important effect on
prices of meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy
products, we have placed limitations on
the export of soybeans and related prod-
ucts until the new crop comes into the
market. These limitations will remain in
effect for that period. But permanent con-
trol of exports is not the policy of this
Government, and we do not intend at
this time to broaden the controls beyond
those now in force. To a considerable de-
gree, export controls are self-defeating as
an anti-inflation measure. Limiting our
exports reduces our foreign earnings, de-
presses the value of the dollar, and in-
creases the cost of things we import,
which also enter into the cost of living of
the American family. Moreover, limiting
our agricultural exports runs counter to
our basic policy of building up our agri-
cultural markets abroad. Unless present
crop expectations are seriously disap-
pointed, or foreign demands are extremely
650
