Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 8 [354]
Government expenditures at my home in
San Clemente.
The perception is now widespread that
the Government spent anywhere from $6
million to $10 million on improvements
at my home. One myth breeds another,
so many observers also believe that the
Government improvements have vastly
enriched me personally.
Those views are grossly inaccurate.
More than 20,000 man-hours have now
been expended by the General Services
Administration to track down every
penny of spending. Their findings estab-
lish three points:
-Total GSA spending on my San
Clemente home was $68,000. That money
was spent almost entirely on fire and
smoke detection systems, interior electri-
cal systems for protection and security,
and the installation of an electric heating
system that the Secret Service thought
necessary for safety purposes.
-The GSA spent approximately
$635,000 on the grounds surrounding my
home. That work consisted largely of the
installation of lighting and alarm systems
for security purposes, construction of
walls and guard posts, and extensive re-
landscaping to restore areas torn up when
the protective devices were installed.
-By comparison, almost $6 million has
been spent by the military services to con-
struct and maintain the Western White
House Office complex. That complex is
not on my property, but on Government
property, and when it is not in use for the
White House Staff, it is frequently em-
ployed as a conference center for public
and civic groups.
Unfortunately, the American people
have been misled into believing that the
funds for the office complex were spent
on my home. The fact that the total spent
on my home was $68,000 has been ig-
nored; the fact that my wife and I spent,
ourselves, three times as much as that,
$187,977 out of our own funds, for real
improvements to our homes, has been lost
altogether. I trust that with the release
of these documents the impressions can
be erased and the truth of this matter
firmly established.
FUTURE OF THE WESTERN WHITE HOUSE
As public misunderstandings over San
Clemente expenditures pass away in the
future, we should recognize that the West-
ern White House complex will continue to
be a valuable asset for the Nation.
I have always been concerned that over
the course of a single man's 8 years in of-
fice, the country probably will not derive
from that complex benefits proportional
to the Government investment there. The
office facility would, of course, remain
available for public use after my term
ends, but the usefulness of San Clemente
as a conference center, guest facility for
visiting foreign dignitaries, and working
base for future Presidents would be far
greater in the coming decades if what is
now my private residence, La Casa Pacif-
ica, could also be part of that complex.
Accordingly, at the time of my death
or that of my wife, whichever is later, we
intend to make a gift to the people of the
United States of my home at San Cle-
mente.
I have directed my attorneys to take the
necessary steps to accomplish this, so that
future administrations and future gen-
erations can take advantage of this beau-
31-870 - 75 - 67
1007
