[224] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
|
It has been a good many years since Japanese
and Americans started the process of getting
to know and understand each other. We note
that the mutual understanding between the
two peoples still leaves much to be desired, be-
cause of the differences in history, culture, and
language. It has, however, come a very long
way indeed, compared, for example, to a
decade ago.
As you know, the first Japanese delegation
came to the United States under the Adminis-
tration of President Buchanan, the 15th Presi-
dent of the United States, barely more than
100 years ago. It consisted of feudal retainers
with their Samurai swords and topknot hairdos.
It must have been a strange sight to the
Americans of these days. More than that, the
United States of those days must have been
a traumatic eye-opening experience to the
Samurais.
I once heard a charming story about a dele-
gation of Japanese businessmen who visited
America early this century and then, on their
return, tried to expound on the American cus-
toms to their friends in Tokyo.
Their listeners had a little trouble in under-
standing the intricately advanced systems of
the American economy, but they were actually,
utterly baffled by the social systems of
Americans.
One excerpt illustrates the extent of their
bafflement. One of the Japanese tried to ex-
plain to his friends that life in America con-
sisted of a very complex system of ceremonies
which was so complicated that they were utterly
mystifying to a foreigner.
He gave as an example what he called The
Ceremony, inverted commas, which takes
place when two American businessmen meet.
First, he explained, the Americans would make
a lot of noise and shout at one another. Then
they would slap each other on the back and
poke one another in the ribs.
Then, at a given moment, though no appar-
ent signal had been given, the ceremony re-
quired that each American reach in his pocket
and pull out a cigar, offering it to the other.
Both men, said the Japanese, would then
laugh and refuse, but finally the man of lesser
rank would accept the cigar of the man of
higher rank, and this, reported the Japanese
visitor, completed the intricate and baffling
American ceremony of greeting.
This sounds remote and charming to us in
Japan today. Fortunately, we have come a long
way toward deeper mutual understanding.
Above all, American culture has affected our
country to a profound degree over the past
century, especially in the 20-odd years since the
end of the war.
At the same time, as the word "Zen" has be-
come a part of the English vocabulary, so has
Japanese culture gradually filtered through to
the United States. The number of travelers be-
tween the two countries has been increasing
rapidly every year. Last year, for example,
280,000 Americans visited Japan, and 420,000
Japanese visited the United States. I believe
firmly that further promotion of American
studies in Japan and Japanese studies in the
United States help greatly to deepen the mu-
tual understanding fostered thus far.
Today, more than a century after the first
Samurai visit, we are here as warm and sincere
friends of the United States, the friends of
America and Americans. Friendship is not a
casual word for us Japanese, but once we have
established friendship, we hold onto it firmly
and forever, and for the Japanese, there is no
higher virtue than loyalty to one's friends and
allies.
I assure you, Mr. President, that the wealth
of the United States does not lie only in its rich
prairies and its modernized industries and great
cities, nor does the wealth of Japan lie only in
its vigorous productive capacity.
The strong bond of friendship of old friends
who weathered together many a storm and bliz-
zard is the real precious wealth that Japan and
the United States share.
We look forward to extending this ring of
friendship to encompass all the countries in the
world and thereby to create a world in which
all the peoples prosper together.
And so, tonight, on behalf of the people of
Japan, I wish to propose a toast to the con-
tinued health of the President and Mrs. Nixon
and to our true and close friends, the people
of the United States of America.
676
