[190] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
can avoid an energy crisis will be deter-
mined by the response of the American
people to their country's needs. In the
past, whenever we have been faced with
real challenges, the American people have
joined together to share in the common
interest.
I am confident we will do so now.
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11726, which established the
Energy Policy Office.
The statement was released at San Clemente,
Calif.
The White House also released, on the same
day, a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the President's statement on energy
policy and his appointment as Director by John
A. Love. Prior to his news briefing, Director
Love had met with the President.
191 Memorandum Directing Reductions in Energy
Consumption by the Federal Government.
June 29, 1973
Memorandum for Heads of Departments
and Agencies:
You are hereby directed to review the
activities of your agency and your con-
tractors which place demands on our
energy resources and determine how de-
mand can be reduced. You are to provide
by July 31, 1973, an accounting of your
agency's energy consumption and a plan
with specific actions and timetables to
reduce demands.
I have today established a nationwide
goal of reducing expected energy demand
by 5 percent over the next twelve months.
The Federal Government goal is to reduce
the expected demand for energy by 7 per-
cent during this same period.
Steps that should be taken by all agen-
cies include reducing the level of air
conditioning in office buildings, with
appropriate relaxation of employee dress
standards; using more energy efficient
automobiles in Federal activities; reducing
employee business trips; reducing unneces
sary lighting in your agency's buildings;
and encouraging greater use of carpools
and mass transit by your employees. In
addition, several agencies have laborato-
ries and industrial type facilities, some of
which are operated by contractors, that
provide special opportunities for signifi-
cant energy conservation measures.
The reports that are due by July 31,
1973. are to be submitted through Secre-
tary Morton. In addition, you are to pro-
vide such additional follow-up reports as
he may require and to assist him and his
new Office of Energy Conservation in
identifying new conservation measures.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased at San Clemente, Calif
192 Letter to Governors Urging Support for Energy
Conservation Measures. June 29, 1973
Dear Governor:
My April 18 message to the Congress,
which was also transmitted to you, de-
tailed actions that must be taken if the
Nation is to have adequate and secure sup-
plies of clean energy in the future.
630
