[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
services are available when needed. As
major elements in this strategy, the 1974
budget provides for:
--a proposal for national health insur-
ance legislation;
-increased funding for cancer and
heart disease research;
initiation of a nationwide system
of physician-sponsored Professional
Standards Review Organizations to
assure quality and appropriateness of
care;
-reform of Medicaid and Medicare to
reduce financial burdens for aged and
disabled patients who experience
long hospital stays and to improve
program management and increase
incentives for appropriate use of serv-
ices; and
---increased special care units and con-
tinued improvement of outpatient
and extended care benefits for
veterans.
The impact of the 1974 budget will be
significant. In 1974, nearly 5 million more
poor, aged, and disabled persons will bene-
fit through expanded financial support for
health services. There will be continued
emphasis on consumer safety. Finally,
strengthened cost controls will give Amer-
icans greater protection against unreason-
able medical cost increases.
DRUG ABUSE CONTROL. During my
first term, in order to meet what had
become both a crime problem and a
health crisis of epidemic proportions, we
launched an all-out war on drug abuse.
With the 1974 budget, we will continue
to press that attack aggressively. Budgeted
expenditures of $719 million, an increase
of $64 million over 1973, will permit con-
tinued strong support for interdiction of
drug traffic and for the treatment and
rehabilitation of drug users.
CIVIL RIGHTS. The protection of each
citizen's civil rights is one of the highest
priorities of my Administration. No
American should be denied equal justice
and equal opportunity in our society
because of race, color, sex, religion, or
national origin. Toward this end, the
Department of Justice and other Federal
agencies will be able under the 1974
budget to increase their civil rights en-
forcement efforts aimed at upholding this
fundamental principle as follows:
-The Department of Justice will ex-
pand its efforts to coordinate the
enforcement of equal access to and
equal benefit from Federal financial
assistance programs.
-The Community Relations Service
will expand its crisis resolution and
State liaison activities.
-The civil rights performance of Fed-
eral agencies will be monitored and
reviewed throughout the year.
--The Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission will receive addi-
tional resources to carry out its ex-
panded responsibilities.
-The Civil Service Commission will
expand its monitoring of Federal
service equal opportunity.
-The Commission on Civil Rights
will receive additional resources to
carry out its newly granted jurisdic-
tion over sex discrimination.
In addition, the Small Business Admin-
istration will expand its loan program for
minority business by nearly one-third.
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
The balanced development of our natu-
ral resources is essential to a healthy
economy and an improved standard of
living. Development inevitably brings
44
