Appendix B
November
30 Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met with the President at the White House
to discuss national and international eco-
nomic issues, including the energy crisis.
30 The Energy Emergency Action Group met
with the President at the White House.
30 Vice President-designate Gerald R. Ford
met with the President in the Old Executive
Office Building to discuss the progress of
Mr. Ford's confirmation by the Senate and
House of Representatives.
December
3 Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met with the President at the White House
to discuss a wide range of international mat-
ters including the interplay of international
economics on other foreign policy matters.
3 Former Senator John Sherman Cooper of
Kentucky met with the President at the
White House to discuss his upcoming trip
to the Far East.
3 Carl E. Friend, of Memphis, Tenn., called
on the President at the White House. Mr.
Friend composed a work of music entitled,
"The History of the States," which was
accepted by the American Revolution Bi-
centennial Commission for use in the Na-
tion's 200th anniversary celebration. Mr.
Friend was accompanied by Representative
Dan H. Kuykendall.
3 Atomic Energy Commission Chairman Dixy
Lee Ray met with the President at the
White House to present recommendations
for an integrated energy research and devel-
opment progam.
3 Republican Congessional leaders met with
the President at the White House to discuss
the information on the President's personal
finances which was made available later in
the week.
3 The President attended a dinner for Cabi-
net members at a private club in Washing-
ton hosted by Republican National Chair-
man George H. Bush.
December
5 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House. During the meeting, William
E. Simon, Administrator of the Federal
Energy Office, outlined the organization of
the new Federal Energy Administration,
and Director Roy L. Ash and Deputy Direc-
tor Frederic V. Malek, of the Office of
Management and Budget, discussed the
current state of the budget.
5 The President greeted Mr. and Mrs. Gor-
don Nail, of Clearwater, Fla., at the White
House. The President expressed his ap-
preciation to Mr. Nail for newspaper adver-
tisements he had placed in support of the
President. Mr. and Mrs. Nail were accom-
panied by Representative C. W. (Bill)
Young.
5 The President and Mrs. Nixon went to a
dinner at the Washington Hilton Hotel at-
tended by 350 Presidential appointees. The
President spoke briefly, expressing his ap-
preciation for their work in the Federal de-
partments and agencies.
6 The President accompanied Gerald R. Ford
to the House Chamber at the Capitol where
Mr. Ford took the oath of office as the 40th
Vice President of the United States.
6 The President sent a telegram to Joseph B.
Danzansky, of Washington, D.C., express-
ing congratulations to him and his asso-
ciates following the National League vote
approving transfer of the San Diego Padres
baseball franchise to Washington.
7 The President announced the delegation
which represented him at ceremonies com-
memorating the 10th anniversary of the in-
dependence of Kenya, within the British
Commonwealth, held at Nairobi from De-
cember 10 through 12. The members of the
delegation, with the rank of Special Am-
bassador, were: Michael P. Balzano, Jr.,
Personal Representative of the President,
and William O. Walker, Representative of
the President.
1086
