Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 8 [324]
will be at least 10 percent short of our
anticipated demands and could fall
short by as much as 17 percent.
ADMINISTRATION ACTIONS TO MEET THE
EMERGENCY
Faced with this emergency, I believe
that we must move forward immediately
on two fronts: administrative and legis-
lative.
In a speech to the Nation last night, I
announced a number of immediate
actions:
First, industries and utilities which use
coal-our most abundant resource-will
be prevented from converting to oil. Ef-
forts will also be made to convert power
plants from the use of oil to the use of
coal.
Second, reduced quantities of fuel will
be allocated to aircraft. This will lead to
a cutback of some 10 percent in the num-
ber of commercial flights, but it should not
seriously disrupt air travel nor cause se-
rious damage to the airline industry.
Third, there will be reductions of ap-
proximately 15 percent in the supply of
heating oil for homes, offices and other es-
tablishments. This is a precautionary
measure to ensure that the oil now avail-
able not be consumed early in the winter,
so that we shall have adequate amounts
available in the later months. This step
will make it necessary for all of us to live
and work in lower temperatures. We must
ask everyone to lower the thermostat in
his home by at least 6 degrees, so that we
can achieve a national daytime average of
68 degrees. In offices, factories and com-
mercial establishments we must ask that
the equivalent of a 10-degree reduction
be achieved by either lowering the ther-
mostat or curtailing working hours.
Fourth, there will be additional reduc-
tions in the consumption of energy by the
Federal Government, cutting even deeper
than the 7 percent reduction that I
ordered earlier this year. This new reduc-
tion will affect the operations of every
agency and department in the Govern-
ment, including the Defense Department,
which has already led the way in previous
cutbacks. As one of the steps in this Fed-
eral effort, I have ordered that daytime
temperatures in Federal offices be reduced
to a level between 65 and 68 degrees. I
have also ordered that all vehicles owned
by the Federal Government be driven no
faster than 50 miles per hour except in
emergencies. This is a step which I have
also asked Governors, mayors, and other
local officials to take immediately with re-
gard to vehicles under their authority.
Fifth, I have asked the Atomic Energy
Commission to speed up the licensing and
construction of nuclear plants, seeking to
reduce the time required to bring nuclear
plants on line from ten years to six years.
Sixth, I have also asked Governors and
mayors to reinforce these actions by taking
appropriate steps at the State and local
level. Among the steps which I believe
would be helpful are these: staggering of
working hours, the encouragement of mass
transit and carpooling, alteration of
school schedules, and elimination of un-
necessary lighting. I have also recom-
mended to the Governors that, consistent
with safety and economic considerations,
they seek to reduce highway speed limits
to 50 miles per hour. This step alone could
save over 200,000 barrels of oil a day.
NEED FOR EMERGENCY LEGISLATION
As essential as these actions are to the
solution of our immediate problem, we
923
