235 Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
meeting that took place, we found that
there was a strip of land 10 to 15 miles
wide in which there were no Cambodians
whatever. It was totally occupied by the
enemy, the North Vietnamese. They had
overrun the entire border area.
The native Cambodian population had
been evacuated or driven out, and along
a 10-mile strip on the Cambodian side of
the border, sometimes 15, a network of
supply lines and training bases had been
established, and the bulk of some 40,000
troops were there. That is what the CIA
reports show, and that is what also the
reports of our own military, as they exam-
ined the situation there, show,
And so, what we find is the situation
that we are referring to back there in 1969,
so long ago when this war was at its height,
when we were trying to do something to
bring it to an honorable end, was that it
was not the United States, but the North
Vietnamese Communists who violated the
neutrality of Cambodia.
The suggestion that these staging areas
for enemy troops, supplies, and artillery
a few thousand yards from American
troops were what we call neutral territory,
exempt from counterattack or bombing.
is simply ludicrous. The Communists had
made a mockery of the neutrality of these
border regions. The United States was
under no moral obligation to respect the
sham.
By January of 1969, these enemy-occu-
pied sanctuaries were no more neutral
territory than was northern France or Bel-
gium in the late spring of 1944 when those
territories were occupied by the Germans.
And so, it was in February of 1969
when the North Vietnamese responded to
President Johnson's 3-month-old bombing
halt and peace initiative with a country-
wide offensive in the South in which hun-
dreds of Americans were killed every
week, and thousands every month.
After this meeting that I have just
spoken to, I made the decision. I ordered
American airpower emploved directly and
continually against the enemy-occupied
base areas from which Communist soldiers
had been attacking and killing American
soldiers.
And so today, there is great anguish and
loud protests from the usual critics, "Why
did the United States make a secret at-
tack on tiny Cambodia?" Of course, this
is absurd. These strikes were not directed
at the Cambodian army or the Cambodian
people; they were directed at the North
Vietnamese invaders who, at that time,
had occupied this area within Cambodia
and were killing Americans from this
area.
This is the significant thing: The Cam-
bodian Government did not object to the
strikes.
In fact, while they were in progress in
the spring of that year. Prince Sihanouk.
then the leader of the Cambodian Gov-
ernment, personally invited me very
warmly to make a state visit to the Cam-
bodian capital. This is after the strikes
had been going on for a long time. That
is a pretty good indication of what he
thought about what we were doing.
Now, as for secrecy, as I have already
indicated, the fact that the bombing was
disclosed to appropriate Government
leaders, the ones I just referred to, and to
appropriate Congressional leaders, those
in the military affairs committee like
Eddie Hébert what is most important,
and here is the bottom line, soon after this
bombing started, early in this Adminis-
tration, there began a steady decline fi-
nally in American casualties along the
Cambodian border, and the enemy was
706
