Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
many positive results, they raised expecta-
tions to a level that simply was not real-
izable. Moreover, our approach tended to
increase dependence on the United
States for ideas, for direction, and for
money.
At the outset of this Administration,
we surveyed the world problems that con-
fronted us, and we made several delib-
erate decisions regarding our posture
toward Latin America. First, we resolved
to avoid what we saw as the two basic
flaws of past performance: taking our
Latin neighbors for granted, assuming
that they were irrevocably linked to us by
commerce and friendship; and launching
a crusade in which we would promise to
lead the peoples of the hemisphere to
prosperity and happiness under
under our
guidance and our formulas.
Our second decision was that, if we
were to have a strong and prospering
community of nations in this part of the
world, we would have to help develop a
new, more healthy relationship among
the United States and its neighbors in
Latin America and the Caribbean. The
kind of mature partnership we envisaged
was one in which Latin America would
assume increasing responsibility for ideas,
for initiatives, and for actions. While the
United States would continue to be an
active partner, there would be a lessening
of the dominant role the United States
had previously played.
Thus, we deliberately reduced our visi-
bility on the hemispheric stage, hoping
that our neighbors would play more active
roles. And they have-not always in per-
fect harmony, it is true, and sometimes
looking more to short-range national ad-
vantage than to the possibly greater long-
range rewards of cooperation. Still, an
open dialogue has begun in the family
of the Americas and a more balanced and
healthy relationship may be taking shape.
We knew that this course would be
criticized by some old friends. There
would be those who had become accus-
tomed to old forms and old ways of con-
ducting our common business and who
might, therefore, feel we were abandon-
ing them. Others would continue to say
"If the Americans aren't in the lead, it
won't work" or "If Washington doesn't
finance this project, nothing will happen."
Others would complain that the United
States was concerned mainly with Europe
and Asia and was losing interest in Latin
America.
These voices have indeed been heard.
On the other hand, many leaders and
governments have used these years to take
a more searching look at their own prob-
lems and to develop their own solutions.
Some have moved imaginatively to in-
crease their industrial production and
foreign trade. A few have taken coura-
geous actions, sometimes putting them-
selves in political peril, to correct their
worst internal economic and social prob-
lems. Some have taken effective steps to
eliminate terrorism. Of course, not all
countries have been willing or able to do
these things, and some have failed to
provide real benefits for their peoples.
THE POLITICAL CLIMATE
All the countries of Latin America and
the Caribbean share the need for eco-
nomic and social progress. Most have to
deal with high rates of unemployment
among the unskilled and even the edu-
cated youth and severe inequities in the
distribution of the wealth produced.
These problems place heavy burdens
on the political apparatus of these coun-
433
