[376] Dec. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the transcript of a news briefing on the
Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973
by Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary, and
Charles C. Edwards, Assistant Secretary for
Health, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
377 Statement on Signing the Flood Disaster Protection
Act of 1973. December 31, 1973
IN MY message to the Congress on na-
tional legislative goals this past Septem-
ber, I expressed my strong conviction that
we can do a better job in preparing for
disasters and in providing assistance to
those who are hardest hit.
The measure that I am signing today,
the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973
(H.R. 8449), will help us to do that
better job.
More than 90 percent of all property
damage caused by natural disasters results
from floods. This legislation, which ex-
pands and improves the National Flood
Insurance Program, will permit us to pre-
pare more adequately against this threat.
It will help motivate communities with
special flood hazards to look ahead, recog-
nize their vulnerability, and participate in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
Under the act, homeowners, business-
men, and others will be able to purchase
significantly increased amounts of flood
insurance at reduced rates. For example,
homeowners will be able to purchase up
to $35,000 of insurance at rates of only 25
cents per $100 of coverage. The owner of
a $20,000 home can thus buy full coverage
for only $50 a year. Small businessmen
and others can avail themselves of up to
$200,000 of coverage.
The Flood Disaster Protection Act of
1973 will call upon owners of property in
flood-prone areas to purchase flood insur-
ance if they are to benefit from financial
assistance for their property from the Fed-
eral Government or from any federally in-
sured, regulated, or supervised lending
institution. It will also encourage forward-
looking local officials to adopt and to en-
force adequate and appropriate land use
and other control measures to reduce the
probability of losses resulting from floods.
This new law will also permit us to
improve our postdisaster assistance pro-
grams by substituting insurance indem-
nification-speedy, direct, and with
minimal redtape-for the current sys-
tem of disaster loans, a system which often
adds to the financial burdens for distressed
disaster victims rather than alleviating
them.
This new law recognizes that a com-
plete resolution of the problems of floods
and flood-related losses cannot be achieved
overnight. Thus, it extends the present
emergency flood insurance program for an
additional 2 years, while rate studies are
being completed. Under the act, all Fed-
eral agencies must cooperate in the
accelerated identification of flood-prone
areas; a definite method is provided for
local communities to give information and
advice to the Federal officials responsible
for the identification of those areas.
We cannot determine whether or when
natural disasters will strike our country,
but we can take reasonable steps to pre-
pare for them in ways which will minimize
their impact and speed our recovery from
their effects. H.R. 8449 represents an im-
portant forward step in this effort, and it
1030
