Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 17 [260]
transcend national boundaries. The chap-
ter "International Action to Protect the
Environment" summarizes the progress
made in recent years in protecting the
oceans, controlling transboundary pollu-
tion, and preserving the fragile natural
heritage of our planet.
Other chapters in this report further
illustrate the gains that have been made.
American initiative-our ability to solve
problems rather than simply bemoaning
them-has increasingly been turned to
environmental improvement in recent
years and the results are becoming evi-
dent in one area after another.
The chapter on "Cleaning Up the Wil-
lamette," for example shows that a grossly
polluted river can be restored to purity
and health. Fifty years ago this Oregon
river was offensive to the senses. Today
the waters are clean and salmon migrate
upstream in the fall. The people of Ore-
gon, whose determination brought about
the cleanup, are now taking action to pre-
serve and assure public access to the
shoreline of this restored river.
The chapter entitled "The Urban En-
vironment: Toward Livable Cities" de-
scribes new signs of life and vigor in our
cities and shows what private citizens can
do to create urban environments that en-
hance the quality of life.
The chapter on "Environmental Status
and Trends" indicates that the air quality
in our cities is improving. Further progress
will occur as the Clean Air Act continues
to be carried out.
As in so many other areas of national
concern, our progress should inspire us to
get on with the job that still remains. In
my National Resources and Environment
Message in February, I resubmitted 19
bills for Congressional action and also
submitted several new proposals. Some
of the most important measures—includ-
ing proposals for the regulation of land
use and the control of toxic substances—
have been before the Congress for 22
years. Passage of these measures is crucial
to the environmental well-being of Amer-
ica. The time for action is upon us.
Land use control is perhaps the most
pressing environmental issue before the
Nation. How we use our land is funda-
mental to all other environmental con-
cerns. There is encouraging evidence that
the American people have reached a new
perception and appreciation for this chal-
lenge. In our past, we wrestled a nation
out of wilderness. We cleared and devel-
oped the land. If we despoiled it, there was
always fresh land over the horizon, or so
it seemed. But now we know that there
must be limits to our use of the land, not
only limits imposed by nature on what
the land can support, but also limits set
by the human spirit-for we need beauty
and order and diversity in our surround-
ings.
I believe that land use regulation should
be primarily a responsibility of local gov-
ernments, where responsive leaders are
most likely to understand the choices that
have to be made. Nevertheless, I am also
convinced that Federal legislation is
needed now both to stimulate and to sup-
port the range of controls that States
must institute. I urge the Congress to
enact my proposal for land use control,
a proposal which would authorize Fed-
eral assistance to encourage the States-
in cooperation with local governments—
to protect lands of critical environmental
concern and to control growth and devel-
opment which has a regional impact.
I also urge the Congress to act quickly
to prevent continued ravaging of our land
and water through uncontrolled mining.
793
