[288] Oct. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
seek an opening towards the world. Its main
thrust is generous passions and deep love of
freedom.
Your country, Mr. President, remains in this
connection, for all men who love justice, the
country which, during a darker period of man-
kind's history, did not hesitate to throw its
phenomenal resources into a battle which, on
other continents, sought to reestablish a more
effective order of dignity for man's Earth and
to establish civilization, relationships no longer
seeking as a justification racism and brute
force.
And so you will understand why we feel so
proud, Mr. President, to be again in your coun-
try today and to pursue our quest, our fascinat-
ing quest after your realities and your people.
There is a last reason which alone would be
sufficient to give our meeting a great deal of
significance, and I will say this very simply:
It is the assurance that I feel as I come to meet
you that I discover one of the most significant
figures of our time. Few statesmen have exerted
such a deep and remarkable influence as you
have, Mr. President, at this latter part of our
century on the disconcerting and tumultuous
course of our history.
Having inherited a situation which the after-
math of the last war or ideological opposition
had frozen in a balance of terror or an implaca-
ble conflict, you have in a few short years con-
tributed in a decisive manner to rearrange the
framework of international relations which have
become accustomed to following exclusively a
relationship based upon force and intolerances.
Through specific measures consistent and con-
crete which display your courage, your realism,
and your clear vision, you have enabled our
world to regain part of the serenity it had lost,
and you have enhanced the policy of compre-
hension, dialog, and peace to which, as you
know, we are so passionately attached.
Even more than the respected President of
the most powerful nation, you are, in the eyes
of the people of the Ivory Coast, the shaper of a
more harmonious world, the indefatigable
apostle of the genuine consultations, and the
generous initiator of peaceful confrontation.
To know this and to be aware of it matters
to us, but to be able to say so in your own capi-
tal is a great and new comfort to us, Mr. Presi-
dent. If the Ivory Coast rejoices today so
sincerely over our meeting, it is because it is
aware that as a response to your friendly
invitation it gives a very privileged character
to moments that we should like to stretch in
time. The already beautiful and long history of
our very cordial relations receives a contribu-
tion, and also we bring a modest contribution
to strengthening a climate of international con-
cord, without which no undertaking of progress
and justice appears possible.
As we begin a visit which will be important
and fruitful for our common future, I should
like to recreate our faithful friendship and our
very deep esteem. But it would be a betrayal of
this friendship, esteem, and confidence, Mr.
President, if before I conclude I did not share
with you the very deep preoccupation I feel, as
a man, as a leader, as an African, in one word
about the very serious problem in the Mideast.
Your action on behalf of peace, which is
already so remarkable-and history will note
your capital role-would remain incomplete if
you did not succeed-acting with the leaders of
the Soviet Union-not to impose, but to create
and foster conditions for a just and durable
peace in that part of the world where one should
speak only of peace, love, and brotherhood.
I raise my glass to you, Mr. President, to you,
Mrs. Nixon, and to the greatness and the
prosperity of the American nation, strengthen-
ing of the friendship between the United
States and the Ivory Coast, international co-
operation and brotherhood among man.
On October 11, 1973, the President met
briefly with President Houphouet-Boigny in the
Diplomatic Reception Room at the White
House prior to the departure of the Ivory Coast
President from the South Lawn.
856
