[161] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
leadership responsibility for developing
Government-wide policy in these areas
and for seeing that such policy is car-
ried out within the departments and
agencies. It has assumed these respon-
sibilities under the broad policy over-
sight of the Office of Management and
Budget, drawing upon OMB's assist-
ance in resolving major policy issues.
-I am also transferring from OMB to
GSA the Relocation Assistance Imple-
mentation Committee, which provides
Government-wide leadership in assur-
ing uniform, fair, and equitable treat-
ment of persons displaced by Federal
or federally assisted programs. The
Committee will be chaired by the GSA
Administrator.
-Finally, now that Reorganization Plan
No. 1 of 1973 has been cleared by the
Congress to take effect on July 1, trans-
ferring to the President all functions
presently vested by statute in the Office
of Emergency Preparedness or its Di-
rector, many of the functions of that
agency will be delegated to the General
Services Administration. These will in-
clude functions in the areas of civil
defense, emergency preparedness plan-
ning, continuity of civil government,
resources planning and analysis, and
strategic materials stockpile planning-
many of which are closely related to
functions already performed by GSA.
All these changes will equip the Gen-
eral Services Administration to act as a
strong partner of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Civil Service
Commission in carrying forward a coordi-
nated effort to improve Federal manage-
ment.
GSA's broad new mission calls for
strong, experienced leadership in the top
command. I am pleased to announce my
intention to nominate Arthur F. Sampson
for the post of Administrator of the ex-
panded agency. Mr. Sampson has already
served with distinction as Acting Admin-
istrator. Dwight A. Ink, a career official
whose wide Federal executive experience
includes service as an Assistant Director
of OMB since the establishment of that
office, will become Deputy Administrator
of GSA.
In addition, I will expect all other Fed-
eral department and agency heads and
their organizations to cooperate fully with
GSA as it undertakes its new respon-
sibilities.
By imposing greater order on frag-
mented and overlapping Federal man-
agement efforts and by establishing
greater uniformity of administrative proc-
esses throughout the executive branch, the
reorganized General Services Adminis-
tration should make a significant con-
tribution toward cutting redtape and
achieving a more economical, effective,
and responsive Federal Government.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased an announcement containing biograph-
ical data on Mr. Sampson. The announcement
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 692).
546
