[317] Oct. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
stronger international monetary system.
A date of July 31, 1974, has been set as
a realistic deadline for completing a basic
agreement among nations on the new sys-
tem.
Concurrently, we are taking the funda-
mental steps at home and abroad that will
lead to needed improvement in the inter-
national trading system. On Septem-
ber 14, while meeting in Tokyo, the
world's major trading nations launched
new multilateral trade negotiations which
could lead to a significant reduction of
world trade barriers and reform of our
rules for trade. The Congress is now con-
sidering trade reform legislation that is
essential to allow the United States to par-
ticipate effectively in these negotiations.
ESSENTIAL ROLE OF DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE
While there is great promise in both the
trade and monetary negotiations, it is im-
portant that strong efforts also be made
in the international effort to support eco-
nomic development-particularly in pro-
viding reasonable amounts of new funds
for international lending institutions.
A stable and flexible monetary system,
a fairer and more efficient system of trade
and investment, and a solid structure of
cooperation in economic development are
the essential components of international
economic relations. We must act in each
of these interdependent areas. If we fail
or fall behind in one, we weaken the
entire effort. We need an economic system
that is balanced and responsive in all its
parts, along with international institu-
tions that reinforce the principles and
rules we negotiate.
We cannot expect other nations-de-
veloped or developing-to respond fully
to our call for stronger and more efficient
trading and monetary systems, if at the
same time we are not willing to assume our
share of the effort to ensure that the
interests of the poorer nations are taken
into account. Our position as a leader in
promoting a more reasonable world order
and our credibility as a negotiator would
be seriously weakened if we do not take
decisive and responsible action to assist
those nations to achieve their aspirations
toward economic development.
There are some two dozen non-com-
munist countries which provide assistance
to developing countries. About 20 percent
of the total aid flow from these countries
is now channeled through multilateral
lending institutions such as the World
Bank group which includes IDA-and
the regional development banks.
These multilateral lending institutions
play an important role in American for-
eign policy. By encouraging developing
countries to participate in a joint effort to
raise their living standards, they help to
make those countries more self reliant.
They provide a pool of unmatched tech-
nical expertise. And they provide a useful
vehicle for encouraging other indus-
trialized countries to take a larger respon-
sibility for the future of the developing
world, which in turn enables us to reduce
our direct assistance.
The American economy also benefits
from our support of international develop-
ment. Developing countries today provide
one-third of our raw material imports, and
we will increasingly rely upon them in the
future for essential materials. These devel-
oping countries are also good customers,
buying more from us than we do from
them.
910
