Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 8 [324]
new authority, the President could take
such actions based solely upon energy con-
siderations. It is my hope that rationing
of energy products will never be required,
but if circumstances dictate it, there
should be no impediments to swift action.
For contingency purposes, I have already
directed that plans for gasoline ration-
ing be drawn up and held in reserve.
Recognizing that a more efficient use
of our transportation resources is neces-
sary, we should also provide additional
authority to encourage greater use of
funds from the Federal-Aid Highway Act
of 1973 for mass transit capital improve-
ments.
In addition, we should provide the
Federal Power Commission with author-
ity, during the duration of the energy
emergency, to suspend the regulation of
prices of new natural gas at the wellhead.
Finally, I believe it would be wise if,
on energy grounds, the President were
empowered to exercise any authority now
contained in the Defense Production Act,
the Economic Stabilization Act and the
Export Administration Act, even though
those acts may have otherwise expired.
MEETING THE LONG-TERM CHALLENGE
As we act to deal with the immediate
problem before us, we must not ignore
the need for preventing such a crisis from
recurring. The lead-times required to meet
our long-range energy needs dictate that
we must move on them at once.
Legislation authorizing construction of
the Alaskan pipeline must be the first or-
der of business as we tackle our long-range
energy problems. The American people
are depending upon the Congress to enact
this legislation at the earliest possible mo-
ment, and they are depending upon me
to approve it. With passage apparently
imminent, I would urge the Congress not
to burden this legislation with irrelevant
amendments. This is no time to hold the
Nation's energy future hostage to other
controversial interests.
I am also requesting early action on
pending legislative proposals to:
-permit the competitive pricing of
new natural gas;
-provide reasonable standards for the
surface mining of coal;
-provide simplified procedures for the
siting and approving of electric en-
ergy facilities;
-establish a Department of Energy and
Natural Resources;
-and provide procedures for approv-
ing construction and operation of
deepwater ports.
Because of the critical role which energy
research and development will play in
meeting our future energy needs, I am re-
questing the Congress to give priority at-
tention to the creation of an Energy Re-
search and Development Administration
separate from my proposal to create a
Department of Energy and Natural Re-
sources. This new administration would
direct the $10 billion program aimed at
achieving a national capacity for energy
self-sufficiency by 1980.
This new effort to achieve self-suffi-
ciency in energy, to be known as Project
Independence, is absolutely critical to the
maintenance of our ability to play our in-
dependent role in international affairs.
In addition, we must recognize that a
substantial part of our success in building
a strong and vigorous economy in this cen-
tury is attributable to the fact that we
have always had access to almost unlim-
ited amounts of cheap energy. If this
growth is to continue, we must develop
925
