Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 11 [116]
tion Act would foster the development of
uniform Federal laws in employee benefits
protection, complementing but in no way
interfering with State laws that regulate
banking, insurance, and securities.
BRIGHTENINg the RetiREMENT PICTURE
By moving rapidly to enact the pension
incentive and protection package I am
recommending today, this Congress has
the opportunity to make 1973 a year of
historic progress in brightening the retire-
ment picture for America's working men
and women.
Under the reforms we seek, every par-
ticipant in a private retirement savings
plan could have a better opportunity to
earn a pension and greater confidence in
actually receiving that pension upon re-
tirement. Those who are not members of
an employer pension plan or who have
only limited benefits in such a plan would
be encouraged to obtain individual cover-
age on their own. The self-employed
would have an incentive to arrange more
adequate coverage for themselves and
their employees. And all participants
could have well-deserved peace of mind in
the knowledge that their welfare and pen-
sion funds were being administered under
the strictest fiduciary standards.
The achievements of our private wel-
fare and retirement plans have con-
tributed much to the economic security of
the Nation's workers. They are a tribute to
the cooperation and creativity of Ameri-
can labor and management. We can be
proud of the system that provides them—
but we must also be alert to the Govern-
ment's responsibility for fostering condi-
tions which will permit that system's fur-
ther development.
I urged at the outset of my second term
that in shaping public policy we should
"measure what we will do for others by
what they will do for themselves." By this
standard, few groups in this country are
more deserving than the millions of work-
ing men and women who are prudently
saving today so that they can be proudly
self-reliant tomorrow. I urge the Congress
to help these citizens help themselves by
going forward with pension reform.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 11, 1973.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the proposed pension
reform program and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message by Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz.
116 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention
for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms.
April 11, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Convention for the
Protection of Producers of Phonograms
Against Unauthorized Duplication of
Their Phonograms done at Geneva Oc-
tober 29, 1971. I transmit also, for the
information of the Senate, the report from
the Department of State with respect to
the Convention.
The present Convention is designed to
279
