Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
change to our natural environment which,
if not properly controlled, could impair
the health and welfare of our citizens and
the beauty of our surroundings. Balancing
the need for development and growth
with the need to preserve and enhance our
environment has become a major chal-
lenge of our time.
Meeting this challenge is not solely the
responsibility of the Federal Government.
Heavy responsibilities fall on State and
local governments, private industry, and
the general public as well. This budget
reflects my determination to seek a proper
balance between development and pres-
ervation. It contemplates neither blind or
insensitive exploitation of our natural re-
sources nor acceptance of a no-growth
philosophy. It avoids such a spurious
choice and plots an orderly and reasoned
course toward sensible development and
environmental enhancement.
The forward thrust of our environ-
mental programs has not been altered.
We will continue vigorous enforcement
of laws and Federal regulations. The En-
vironmental Protection Agency has al-
lotted to the States $5 billion of new
authorizations to make grants for waste
treatment construction. With $5.1 billion
in additional funds already available for
payment on new projects and projects for
which the Federal Government had made
prior commitments, a total of $10.1 billion
has been set aside in a short period of time
for waste treatment facilities. I believe
that more funds would not speed our
progress toward clean water, but merely
inflate the cost while creating substantial
fiscal problems.
Adequate supplies of clean energy are a
vital concern. The resources devoted in
this budget to energy research and devel-
opment are one important element of the
response to this problem. My initiative to
demonstrate a large-scale fast breeder
reactor by 1980 will be continued; and
funds have been significantly increased to
develop means of using other energy re-
sources particularly our abundant coal
resources. At the same time, this budget
provides funds to carry out a program for
regulation of strip mining activities to
minimize their adverse environmental
impact.
I have long been committed to sound,
multiple-use management of public lands
consistent with long-term environmental
preservation. My 1974 program provides
both for development of new outdoor
recreation opportunities accessible to our
large population centers and for new
wilderness areas. In addition, the budget
includes funds for a program providing
incentives to States to undertake regula-
tion of private land use. This program
would encourage establishment at the
State level of open decisionmaking proc-
esses to insure proper consideration of the
long-term environmental implications of
major land use decisions.
THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURE.—The
American farmer wants to raise high qual-
ity products in the most efficient manner,
and to receive prices that provide him a
fair return on his investment. He wants
a minimum of Government regulation,
and recognizes the need for some pro-
tection from events beyond his control.
We are working to create conditions fa-
vorable to the American farmer by ex-
panding our world markets, stabilizing the
domestic economy, and tailoring farm pro-
grams to provide both freedom of choice
and reasonable earnings for farmers.
We have made some impressive progress
toward these objectives. Farm income has
improved; more freedom to plant has been
45
