[180] June 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
as possible. Medicines are being provided
to combat malnutrition and potential
epidemics. In response to a request from
Director General Boerma, the Agency for
International Development has provided
a logistical planning expert to the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations and our staffs in West
Africa are being augmented to improve
our ability to deliver what is needed to
the right place at the right time.
We share your concern that the prob-
lems of dealing with the immediate emer-
gency will become even more difficult as
the rains begin and road transport prob-
lems increase. We therefore stand ready
to provide further support for internal
transport, as specified needs are identified.
As you have recognized, this region is
faced not only with the immediate needs
of feeding the hungry but also of rehabili-
tating water and forage resources, live-
stock herds and grain producing facilities
to permit a long range recovery from the
devastating effects of the drought. This
effort will require close collaboration
among African leaders and the donor
community. As specific rehabilitation
needs are more clearly identified, and as
it becomes clearer what others are ready
to do, the United States will be prepared
to provide additional assistance for the
Sahel to help overcome the profound
effects of this tragedy.
In order to coordinate more effectively
our emergency relief efforts and to plan
our part in a rehabilitation program, I in-
tend to designate Mr. Maurice J. Williams
as a Special United States Coordinator.
He will cooperate closely in his work with
Director General Boerma and with other
governments so that the work of relief
and rehabilitation can go forward as
expeditiously as possible.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[His Excellency Dr. Kurt Waldheim, Secretary
General of the United Nations, United Na-
tions, New York 10017)
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated June 20,
1973. was issued by the White House on the
following day.
181 Toasts of the President and General Secretary Brezhnev
at a Dinner at the Soviet Embassy. June 21, 1973
Mr. General Secretary, our hosts from the
Soviet Union, and all of our friends from
the United States:
We want to express our appreciation to
you, Mr. General Secretary, and to our
hosts for this splendid dinner. There is a
saying in our country on occasion when
one is a guest, "Make yourself at home."
Tonight we had that somewhat reversed,
because Mrs. Dobrynin told me that all
the things that were served tonight, in-
cluding the wines in this magnificent ban-
quet, were brought from the Soviet
Union. So we had a chance this evening
to be, in a sense, in the Soviet Union, and
we thank her for her thoughtfulness in
giving us that opportunity.
On this occasion, I am reminded of the
fact that it marks several events. This is
the last day that Secretary Rogers will be
59 years of age. He will be 60 tomorrow,
so we wish him a happy birthday in
advance.
Also, Mr. General Secretary, this hap-
602
