Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
the contrary-an acknowledgement of
the new importance of our allies. Ameri-
can initiatives, such as in China policy or
economic policy, were not directed against
Japan, but were taken in a common inter-
est or in a much broader context—and in
some cases in response to Japanese policies.
The underlying basis of our unity en-
dured. The very centrality of the alliance
in Japanese policy was at the heart of the
problem. But Japan had to face the impli-
cations of her new independence and
strength just as the United States was
seeking to do. And until this psychological
adjustment was fully made by both sides,
anomalies in our relations were bound to
persist.
This is the background to the events
of the past two years and the current pub-
lic issues facing the U.S.-Japanese alliance.
THE ISSUES ON OUR COMMON AGENDA
The Economic Dimension. The most
urgent issue in U.S.-Japanese relations to-
day is economic-the enormous imbalance
in our bilateral trade. We must reduce this
imbalance to manageable size in the
earliest possible timeframe.
As Prime Minister Tanaka has recog-
nized, this is not merely an American prob-
lem; it is also a Japanese problem. This is
not only because persistent disputes over
these economic issues threaten to disrupt
the political relations that hold our alli-
ance together; the imbalance is a threat to
a stable international system in which
Japan herself has a major stake. In 1972,
Japan's trade was in surplus with all the
major industrial nations of the world. As
long as the United States remains the
largest single factor in international trade
and the dollar is still the principal factor
in the monetary structure, the disequilib-
rium of the American position, in particu-
lar, is a chronic problem of the world
system. The United States therefore seeks
cooperative solutions, bilaterally and
multilaterally, to build a new stable and
open system of world monetary and trade
relations.
The responsibility that falls on Japan
as the free world nation with the strongest
trading position is necessarily heavy.
The challenge to leadership on all sides
is to give firm political direction to our
economic relations because of the broader
objectives that are at stake. Organiza-
tionally, on all sides, there is a tendency for
actions to be taken or policies to be estab-
lished from the viewpoint of a purely eco-
nomic national interest or under pressure
from particular domestic economic inter-
ests. This has only resulted in destabilizing
both our economic and our political rela-
tions, and we can no longer afford it.
The U.S.-Japanese bilateral economic
relationship is at the heart of the issue. It
is extraordinary in its scale, importance,
and interdependence. The Gross National
Product of the United States and Japan
together is 40 percent of the total Gross
National Product of the world. Trade be-
tween us totalled $12.5 billion in 1972.
Japan is our most important trading part-
ner in the world aside from Canada. Our
economic policies, internal and global,
necessarily affect each other bilaterally to
a profound degree.
On August 15, 1971, the United States
took a number of unilateral economic
steps which inevitably had a particular
impact on Japan. They were emergency
measures, forced upon us by a monetary
crisis; their focus was on putting our own
house in order and in setting the stage for
international reform. The measures which
applied to our external relations were
421
