253 Sept. 10 Public Papers of the Presidents
to calling for changes rather than making
changes.
penalty, in exceptional circumstances, for
the purpose of preventing or deterring
crime. I wish to reaffirm my conviction
that the death penalty should be restored
for treason, assassination, acts of sabotage
and espionage, which are particularly seri-
ous, and for violations of selected Federal
laws in which death results.
I am deeply troubled by the fact that
our courts are often now deprived of a
credible sanction in their efforts against
violent crime while prospective criminals
are provided with the comfort and en-
couragement of knowing that they will
often suffer only limited and mitigable
consequences to themselves. I ask that the
Congress continue its efforts to correct this
discrepancy.
REFORM OF CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
No subject over the last few months has
so stirred public comment and reflection
as the question of campaign practices.
For nearly four months now, the Con-
gress has had before it my proposal to
establish a Non-Partisan Commission on
Federal Election Reform so that we could
overhaul our campaign practices in a
comprehensive, sound and expeditious
manner. In light of the great interest of
the public and the Congress in such re-
form, I am at a loss to understand why
only the Senate has acted on this request.
In order to have made any reform effec-
tive for the 1974 elections, the Commis-
sion should have been established and pre-
pared to submit a report by December 1,
as I initially proposed. Unfortunately, this
opportunity appears to be slipping by and
the American public might well ask
whether the interest in reform is restricted
While the passage of time has already
made it unlikely that reforms which spring
from the Commission's study could be
made effective prior to the 1974 Congres-
sional elections, it is not too late for the
Congress to move forward to establish
the Commission.
PREPARING FOR THE BICENTENNIAL.
America is virtually on the eve of its
Bicentennial anniversary. Yet a great deal
of preparation remains to be accomplished
in a relatively short time if our celebration
of two hundred years of liberty is to be
equal to the importance of the occasion.
To this end, I have proposed the creation
of an American Revolution Bicentennial
Administration to continue and expand
upon the work of the present American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission.
The House has passed a bill in this area
and the Senate is moving toward final con-
sideration of its version of the bill.
We are moving rapidly toward a fixed
point in time, and we must act swiftly if
all agencies of the Federal Government,
along with State, local, and private in-
stitutions, are to be given the maximum
opportunity to prepare properly for the
Bicentennial year.
Since the expanded resources of the
Arts and Humanities Endowments would
be designed in part to aid in these prep-
arations, I am also confident that the
House and Senate conferees will soon com-
plete needed action on the authorization
bill for these two institutions. It is now
widely recognized that both of the en-
dowments are playing an effective role in
I
782
