Richard Nixon, 1973
July 9 [198]
"For myself I shall repel all such attempts as
an invasion of the principles of justice as well
as the Constitution, and I shall esteem it my
sacred duty to the people of the United States
to resist them as I would the establishment of
a Spanish Inquisition."
I might commend to your reading the opin-
ion of one of the committees of the House of
Representatives in 1879, House Report 141,
March 3, 1879, Forty-fifth Congress, Third
Session, in which the House Judiciary Commit-
tee said the following:
"The Executive is as independent of either
house of Congress as either house of Congress
is independent of him, and they cannot call for
the records of his actions, or the action of his
officers against his consent, any more than he
can call for any of the journals or records of the
House or Senate."
It must be obvious to you that if the doctrine
of separation of powers and the independence
of the Presidency is to have any validity at all,
it must be equally applicable to a President
after his term of office has expired when he is
sought to be examined with respect to any acts
occurring while he is President.
The doctrine would be shattered, and the
President, contrary to our fundamental theory
of constitutional government, would become a
mere arm of the Legislative Branch of the Gov-
ernment if he would feel during his term of
office that his every act might be subject to
official inquiry and possible distortion for politi-
cal purposes.
If your intention, however, is to inquire into
any acts as a private individual either before or
after my Presidency and unrelated to any acts
as President, I shall be happy to appear.
Yours Very Truly,
HARRY S. TRUMAN
[Honorable Harold H. Velde, Chairman, Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities, U.S. House
of Representatives, Washington, D.C.]
198 Remarks at the Swearing In of Clarence M. Kelley as
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
July 9, 1973
Governor Bond, all of the distinguished
guests here on the platform, and all of the
friends of the new Director of the FBI,
Chief Kelley, here in the audience:
I have just come from California, as
you know, and I think to put in perspec-
tive the nomination, the confirming, and
now the swearing in of Chief Kelley as the
Director of the FBI, it would be well to
point out that we are entering a new era
in our foreign relations, and we are enter-
ing also a new era in our relations insofar
as the United States is concerned toward
achieving peace at home.
I was thinking, for example, that when
I was meeting with Mr. Brezhnev in Cali-
fornia, that for the first time since World
War II, the United States has a totally
new relationship with the Soviet Union,
the other great super power in the world,
and with the People's Republic of China,
in which one-fourth of all the people in
the world live.
This does not mean that that new re-
lationship assures that we will have peace
without maintaining a strong national de-
fense and without having a strong foreign
policy; but it does mean this: that instead
of having continuing confrontation, we
are now having negotiation with those
who might be our potential opponents in
the years ahead. And that means that
our children have a better chance for
peace, a generation of peace and even
longer, than any generation in this cen-
tury, and for this we can be grateful.
As we think of that new era, too, we
can think of the fact that for the first time
31-870 O 75-44
639
