Richard Nixon, 1973
May 19 [160]
try for them in the future, make this
world a more peaceful world for them.
That is what leadership is all about.
That is what we are dedicated to here
today.
In just a few weeks, as you know, Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev of the Soviet
Union will be in this country for a summit
conference to build on the new negotia-
tions that we have made in United States-
Soviet relations in Moscow one year ago.
We are ready to join with the Soviet
leaders in efforts to seek additional ways
to limit strategic nuclear arms, to expand
mutually advantageous trade, and to-
gether with our allies, to work toward
mutual and balanced reductions of the
level of armed forces in Central Europe.
We are moving, as I have already in-
dicated, toward normalization of our re-
lations with the People's Republic of
China, now that our two nations are open-
ing permanent liaison offices in Peking
and in Washington.
We are committed to wide-ranging
talks with our friends in Europe and in
Japan, with particular emphasis on plac-
ing the international economy on a more
secure and equitable footing.
Because all of that is at stake in the
critical period ahead, we must reject the
well-intentioned but misguided sugges-
tions that because of the progress we
have made toward peace, this is the time
to slash America's defenses by billions of
dollars.
There could be no more certain formula
for failure in the negotiations that I have
just talked about, no more dangerous in-
vitation for other powers to break the
peace, than for us to send the President
of the United States to the conference
table as the head of the second strongest
nation in the world. Let that never happen
in the United States of America.
Let me put it quite bluntly, particu-
larly in the presence of my colleagues
from the House and the Senate, those
distinguished Virginians who presently
serve there and who happen to be also
on the Armed Services Committees. Of-
ten when votes come up as to whether
America will be strong enough to keep
its commitments or be so weak that it
will not command respect in the world,
those who vote to cut our arms are said
to be for peace and those who vote for
strength are said to be for war.
I want to put it right on the line today,
bluntly: A vote for a weak America is
a vote against peace. A vote for a strong
America is a vote for peace, because a
strong America will always keep the peace.
If the United States were to cut back
unilaterally in the strength of our Armed
Forces without obtaining reciprocal ac-
tions or commitments in return, that ac-
tion—and I speak with measured tones—
that action of unilaterally cutting our
strength before we have a mutual agree-
ment with the other side to cut theirs as
well will completely torpedo the chances
for
any successful negotiations, and those
who vote to cut that strength will be de-
stroying the chances, the best chance we
have had since World War II, to build
an era of peace. And so, support those
men and women who have the courage in
the Congress to vote for a strong America,
rather than to vote for a weak America.
We need a strong America if we are going
to have peace.
Let me turn to that area of the world in
which we need that strength so much—
Southeast Asia.
After the long ordeal we have been
31-870 - 75-38
543
