Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 20 [307]
only the language and inferences of that
great document, but also the choices of
clash and accommodation made by re-
sponsible leaders at critical moments.
Under the Constitution, it is the duty of
the President to see that the laws of the
Nation are faithfully executed. My actions
today are in accordance with that duty,
and in that spirit of accommodation.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a statement by Deputy Press Secretary
Gerald L. Warren, providing additional infor-
mation about the release of the President's
statement. The statement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 1265).
306 National Film Day Message.
October 20, 1973
ON TUESDAY, October 23, the Nation
will observe the first annual National Film
Day. No art form is more deeply rooted
in America than the film; none has been
more greatly enriched by the work of
American artists.
Motion picture companies, theater
owners and film makers across the coun-
try are holding this event to serve a two-
fold purpose--to call attention to the con-
tribution the motion picture has made to
America's cultural history and to provide
support for the American Film Institute,
the national organization that serves as
custodian of our film heritage by preserv-
ing the Nation's film classics at the Li-
brary of Congress and by training the
promising young film makers of tomorrow.
Over the years we have all shared in
the beauty, the joy and the inspiration
that have characterized American motion
pictures at their best. I am sure that I
speak for millions of Americans in pay-
ing tribute to this outstanding profession
of the arts on the occasion of National
Film Day.
RICHARD NIXON
307 Statement on the Death of Norman Chandler.
October 20, 1973
A CLOSE FRIEND, a worthy citizen,
and an honest, forthright leader in the
communications field, Norman Chandler
will be missed by all Americans.
His good works and his newspaper will
serve as monuments to his life, but his
personal qualities-his warmth, dignity,
and devotion to others will not be easily
replaced. I will always remember him as
one of the finest gentlemen I have ever
known.
Mrs. Nixon joins me today in grieving
the death of Norman Chandler. To his
wife, Dorothy, and to his two children, we
extend our deep condolences. They will
take great pride in the life he lived, be-
cause he served so many others before
himself.
NOTE: Mr. Chandler, 74, died in Los Angeles,
Calif. He was a former publisher of the Los
Angeles Times and chairman of the executive
committee, Times Mirror Co.
889
