[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
for loans on economic grounds without
opening the door to charges of political
"meddling."
It is regrettable that U.S. contributions
to the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) have lagged in the past year. The
Administration will make a strong effort
to persuade the Congress to correct this
deficiency and provide the necessary ap-
propriations to meet our pledge. The con-
tinued effective functioning of the IDB
will hinge in large part on the full
cooperation of the United States.
Our firm support for economic develop-
ment in the Western Hemisphere is good
politics and good economics. We live with
other nations of the hemisphere in one
neighborhood. And no neighborhood is a
very healthy place if many of its people
are living daily with poverty, disease, and
frustration. People forced to live at the
fringe of survival cannot produce the
goods the human family needs, master the
technology that makes progress achiev-
able, or buy the products of other people's
labor. They cannot become full partners
in the 20th Century.
Economic development is a product of
many forces. The most critical factor is
the most obvious what a people and
their government are prepared and able to
do for themselves. Trade is another essen-
tial element for healthy growth. Beyond
that, direct bilateral assistance and multi-
lateral funding can provide the capital
and technological expertise for success.
But there is a fourth element in success-
ful development, often underestimated
and more often misunderstood, and that
is private investment.
Foreign investment can provide a
highly efficient and effective channel for
the flow of modern technology, which is
so sorely needed by developing countries.
It can broaden production and employ-
ment. More than that, inflows of foreign
capital help to stimulate the mobiliza-
tion of local capital for development tasks.
As one looks at the record of economic
growth among developed and developing
countries alike over the past two or three
decades, it is not accidental that the most
rapid growth has occurred in countries
that provided a healthy climate for pri-
vate investment.
There is, of course, a legitimate con-
cern about specific forms of foreign invest-
ment and the terms under which foreign
businesses operate. Every country, whether
underdeveloped or advanced, imposes re-
strictions on types and levels of external
involvement in its economy. These re-
strictions can and should be worked out in
ways that protect the legitimate interests
of both investors and recipients.
The evident economic advantages of
sound foreign investment responsibly
adapted to the needs of developing coun-
tries have not been effectively explained to
most local publics. Increasingly, foreign
investment has become the special target
of extreme nationalists and leftist politi-
cians. In some cases, governments have
tried to use foreign companies as politi-
cal lightning rods or as scapegoats for
their own shortcomings.
These factors-nationalism, ideological
hostility, and the search for scapegoats-
have led some governments to seize for-
eign assets and to cancel the contracts
under which foreign companies were op-
erating. Under international law, any
sovereign government has a right to ex-
propriate property for public purposes.
But that same international law requires
adequate and prompt compensation for
the investors or owners.
Moreover, one can fairly question, on
440
