[163] May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the Senate, therefore, say it is time
for us to bring our men home-half of
them or a third of them or a fourth of
them, or what have you-regardless of
what the other side does.
But here again, let's look at what would
happen. In the fall we are going to have
very significant negotiations with the War-
saw Pact countries for a mutual reduction
of forces in Europe, a reduction on our
side and on theirs. As long as it is a mutual
reduction, the stability which is essential
for peace in that critical area of the world
will be maintained.
But if, on the other hand, before we go
into those negotiations this fall, the United
States unilaterally reduces its forces, all
incentive that the Warsaw Pact forces and
that the Soviet Union would have to re-
duce theirs is gone, and you would create
that imbalance which would enormously
increase instability and the chances for
war.
So, what I am saying to you is this: I am
for limitation of armaments, and I know
every one of you is. I am for, certainly in
the nuclear field, doing everything that we
can to reduce that danger that is hanging
over the world today.
But I also know that it is vitally impor-
tant that in this field of limitation of
armaments that we remember that the
United States of America is not a threat to
the peace of the world.
I have traveled in most of the countries
of the world. I have been to the Commu-
nist countries and to the free countries. I
have yet to talk to a world leader who
believes that the United States of America
threatens his peace or his freedom. A
strong United States is a force for peace;
a weak United States means that the
peace will be threatened.
And so, that is why I say at this point,
not that we want to be strong in order to
dominate anybody else that period was
long gone, if it ever did exist in our own
minds-but what we need to recognize is
that we now have a balance in the world.
We must maintain that balance. And that
is why, let us keep our defenses up.
Oh, take the fat off, wherever we pos-
sibly can, but keep them up and be sure
in negotiations we go down only if the
other side goes down, and if we do that,
then we contribute to the peace of the
world in which we are all so very much
interested.
One other subject that is somewhat
sensitive that I will touch upon only
briefly, that I would like to ask for your
support on, is with regard to the security
of the kind of negotiations that we have
had.
I want to be quite blunt. Had we not
had secrecy, had we not had secret nego-
tiations with the North Vietnamese, had
we not had secret negotiations prior to the
Soviet summit, had we not had secret
negotiations over a period of time with
the Chinese leaders, let me say quite
bluntly, there would have been no China
initiative, there would have been no limi-
tation of arms for the Soviet Union and
no summit, and had we not had that kind
of security and that kind of secrecy that
allowed for the kind of exchange that is
essential, you men would still be in Hanoi
rather than Washington today.
And let me say, I think it is time in this
country to quit making national heroes
out of those who steal secrets and publish
them in the newspapers.
Because, gentlemen, you see, in order
to continue these great initiatives for
peace, we must have confidentiality, we
must have secret communications. It isn't
that we are trying to keep anything from
560
