Richard Nixon, 1973
June 18 [178]
have worked together for peace within
these walls. But none of them, I believe,
have borne a heavier responsibility or
faced a more magnificent opportunity
than we do today and this week.
The question is: Shall the world's two
strongest nations constantly confront one
another in areas which might lead to war,
or shall we work together for peace? The
world watches and listens this week to see
what our answer is to that question. Mr.
General Secretary, I know that your an-
swer, based on our acquaintanceship and
our discussions today and a year ago, is
the same as mine to that question. We
shall be worthy of the hopes of people
everywhere that the world's two strongest
nations will work together for the cause of
peace and friendship among all peoples,
regardless of differences in political
philosophy.
So to all of our distinguished guests, will
you join me in a toast to the General Sec-
retary, his colleagues, to the friendship of
the Soviet and American peoples, and
peace between our countries and among
all nations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
General Secretary Brezhnev responded in Rus-
sian, and his remarks were translated by an
interpreter.
An advance text of the exchange of toasts
was released on the same day.
The General Secretary's translated remarks
follow:
Esteemed Mr. President, esteemed Mrs. Nixon,
ladies and gentlemen:
Permit me, first of all, to thank you, Mr.
President, for the invitation to visit your coun-
try, for the kind words you have just said here,
and for the hospitality you are according us on
the soil of the United States.
Taking this opportunity, I should like to say
that it gives me great satisfaction to be able to
continue my talks with you, aimed at the further
improvement of Soviet-American relations
initiated in Moscow in May of last year.
The time that has elapsed since our Moscow
meeting has, I feel, convincingly confirmed the
correctness of the jointly taken line of invigorat-
ing the relations between the U.S.S.R. and the
U.S.A., and of reshaping them in accordance
with the principles of peaceful coexistence
which were set out in the document you and I
signed a year ago. I trust you will agree, Mr.
President, that we are on the right track, as it
is one that meets the fundamental interests of
the peoples of our countries and of all mankind.
And what has already been done and is being
done to give effect to the basic principles of
mutual relations between our countries laid
down in Moscow is of no small significance.
Life is the best counsellor. The results of the
past year suggest the direction for further ad-
vance. They inspire us to take, in the course of
this meeting, new major steps and give Soviet-
American relations greater stability and, there-
by, increase the contribution of our countries to
the cause of peace and international détente.
Of course, the reshaping of Soviet-American
relations is not an easy task. And the crux of
the matter lies not only in the fact that the
U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. have different social
systems. What is also required is to overcome
the inertia of the "cold war" and its after-
effects in international affairs, and in the minds
of men.
However, mankind's development requires
positive and constructive ideas. I am convinced,
therefore, that the more persistently and
speedily we move towards the mutually advan-
tageous development of Soviet-American rela-
tions, the more tangible will be the great bene-
fits of this for the peoples of our countries, and
the greater will be the number of those in favor
of such a development, and they are known to
be in the majority even today. That is why we
are in favor of building relations between the
Soviet Union and the United States on a prop-
erly large scale and a long-term basis.
We have come here to Washington with a
firm desire to give, together with the leaders of
the United States, a new and powerful impetus
to the development of Soviet-American rela-
tions along precisely those lines, and this fully
accords with the Peace Program adopted by the
24th Congress of our Party. In its Resolution,
597
