Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 22 [268]
to Moscow, to Paris; what a President
does, what a Secretary of State does, what
his advisers do.
But Dr. Kissinger knows, as I know.
and as everybody in this audience knows.
that successes in any area, and particu-
larly in foreign policy, do not come simply
from the activities of one person. It re-
quires a dedicated team of people, men
and women working together. And in
now having achieved peace, in keeping the
and building the structure of peace,
peace
he has the function and, I am sure, will
meet that responsibility of getting the
cooperation of the people in the State De-
partment and the other agencies of Gov-
ernment so that, working together and
working with the Congress of the United
States, we will not miss this historic
portunity to build a lasting peace for
America and the world. This is certainly
his charge. It is one that he welcomes, and
it is one for which he is superbly quali-
fied.
op-
Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of
State Henry Kissinger.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
biographical data on Secretary of State
Kissinger.
Secretary Kissinger responded as follows:
Mr. President, the Chief Justice, distinguished
guests:
Nearly 5 years ago, shortly after the Presi-
dent had been elected, he invited me to call on
him at the Hotel Pierre in New York. I had
never met the President at the time, and he
described to me, in a conversation which even-
tually led to my appointment as his assistant
for national security, what he hoped to achieve
in his Presidency.
He told me that no goal could be more noble
than to bring mankind closer to its eternal hope
for a lasting peace. He said that we should
not be hampered by any preconceptions, that
we should not avoid any new departures, and
that we should enlist the ablest people in the
departments and in the country to help in this
enterprise.
In the 5 years that have passed since then,
we have gone through many turbulent times,
but the objective has never wavered, and the
major progress has been made in easing many
of the tensions that existed in the world when
the President assumed office.
A few weeks ago in San Clemente, the Presi-
dent spoke to me again about his hopes for
his second term and asked me to assume this
position, and he again stressed to me that the
only objectives that are worth achieving in
foreign policy are those that transcend ad-
ministrations and go beyond parties, and he
spoke to me then about the structure of peace.
When we speak of a structure of peace, we
mean a world which has not just eased ten-
sions, but overcome them; a world not based
on strength, but on justice; a relationship
among nations based on cooperation and not
an equilibrium of forces alone. That kind of
a world is the task, as the President has pointed
out, of all Americans, and it is the reason why
the President has charged me here with achiev-
ing it in the closest cooperation with the Con-
gress and with the great departments of the
Government.
Mr. President, you referred to my back-
ground, and it is true, there is no country in
the world where it is conceivable that a man
of my origin could be standing here next to
the President of the United States. And if my
origin can contribute anything to the formu-
lation of our policy, it is that at an early age
I have seen what can happen to a society that
is based on hatred and strength and distrust,
and that I experienced then what America
means to other people, its hope and its idealism.
And therefore, in achieving a structure of peace
under your leadership, Mr. President, we will
strive not just for a pragmatic solution to this
or that difficulty, but to recognize that America
has never been true to itself unless it meant
something beyond itself.
And as we work for a world at peace with
justice, compassion, and humanity, we know
that America, in fulfilling man's deepest aspi-
rations, fulfills what is best within it.
Thank you very much.
817
