Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 22 [53]
can easily lose our way unless the Congress
is on board, helping to steer the course.
As we face 1973, in fact, we may be
sure that the state of our economy in the
future will very much depend upon the
decisions made this year on Capitol Hill.
Over the course of the next few months,
I will urge prompt Congressional action
a variety of economic proposals.
Together, these proposals will constitute
one of the most important packages of
economic initiatives ever considered by
any Congress in our history. I hope-as
do all of our people that the Congress
will act with both discipline and dispatch.
Among the items included in my 1973
economic package are:
-Extension of the Economic Stabiliza-
tion Program. Present authority will soon
expire, and I have asked the Congress to
extend the law for one year to April 30,
1974. I hope this will be done without
adding general mandatory standards or
prescribing rigid advance decisions-
steps that would only hamper sound ad-
ministration of the program. A highly
complex economy simply cannot be regu-
lated effectively for extended periods in
that way.
-Tax Program. I shall recommend a
tax program that builds further reforms
on those we achieved in 1969 and 1971.
-Property Tax Relief. I shall also
submit recommendations for alleviating
the crushing burdens which property
taxes now create for older Americans.
-Tax Credit for Nonpublic Schools.
I shall propose legislation which would
provide for income tax credit for tuition
paid to nonpublic elementary and sec-
ondary schools. These institutions are a
valuable national resource, relieving the
public school system of enrollment pres-
sures, injecting a welcome variety into
our educational process, and expanding
the options of millions of parents.
-Trade Legislation. Another item high
on our agenda will be new trade pro-
posals which I will soon send to the
Congress. They would make it easier for
us not only to lower our trade barriers
when other countries lower theirs but also
to raise our barriers when that is neces-
sary to keep things fair.
-Other Reforms. To modernize and
make them more equitable and beneficial,
I shall also later submit recommendations
for improving the performance of our
private pension system, our unemploy-
ment compensation program, our mini-
mum wage laws and the manner in which
we deal with our transportation systems.
-Spending Limits. Finally, but most
importantly, I ask the Congress to act this
year to impose strict limits on Federal
spending.
The cuts I have suggested in this year's
budget did not come easily. Thus I can
well understand that it may not be easy
for the Congress to sustain them, as every
special interest group lobbies with its own
special Congressional committees for its
own special legislation. But the Congress
should serve more than the special inter-
est; its first allegiance must always be to
the public interest.
We must also recognize that no one in
the Congress is now charged with adding
all of our Federal expenditures together-
and considering their total impact on.
taxes and prices. It is as if each member
of a family went shopping on his own,
without knowing how much money was
available in the overall family budget or
how much other members of the family
were spending or charging on various
credit accounts.
To overcome these problems, I urge
123
