[320] Nov. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
rent fiscal year, in the form of a $107 mil-
lion increase in grant authority plus $300
million in new loan guarantees, thus as-
suring the corporation of continuity and
flexibility in its operations at this im-
portant time in rail passenger develop-
ment and in our national energy squeeze.
It should enable Amtrak to build on the
progress it has already made in reversing
the long downtrend in rail passenger
ridership and to make further ridership
gains beyond the one-third improvement
expected in the current fiscal year above
the level of fiscal year 1972.
To my regret, however, the Congress in
framing this bill failed to address some of
the major shortcomings that have shown
up in Amtrak's early experience, includ-
ing a number of routes with uneconomi-
cally low ridership, persistent manage-
ment weaknesses, and increasing operat-
ing losses.
Three sections of S. 2016 actually
threaten to worsen these problems:
-Section 11 freezes all Amtrak routes
in existence for another year and requires
the establishment of at least one additional
experimental route each year.
-Section 12 deprives the executive
branch of any meaningful authority to re-
view in advance the spending plans of the
rail passenger corporation or to exercise
sensible budgetary and legislative con-
trol. We will seek legislation to repeal the
mandatory spending and direct budget
submittal features which create this anom-
aly, but in any event I do not consider
that they establish a precedent for other
agencies, since Amtrak enjoys special
status as a profitmaking corporation.
-Third, section 14 gives the Inter-
state Commerce Commission broad new
regulatory responsibilities which would
have the effect of dictating the way in
which a large part of Amtrak's capital
and operating expenditures are made
without regard to the economic disci-
plines which ought to govern corporate
decisionmaking.
The overall effect of these provisions
would be to deepen in amount, and to
extend indefinitely in time, Amtrak's de-
pendence on public funds, and simultane-
ously to bar the executive branch from
exercising the close stewardship over sub-
sidy funds which taxpayers have a right
to expect. The original intent with which
Amtrak was established-that of creat-
ing a market-oriented, profitmaking cor-
poration which would gradually outgrow
the need for taxpayer support-would be
turned precisely inside out, tending to
make Amtrak a permanently subsidized
establishment.
Accordingly, while I have decided to
sign this bill for the overriding reasons al-
ready stated, I am also directing the Sec-
retary of Transportation to take imme-
diate steps aimed at remedying the bill's
defects. Legislation to change the objec-
tionable provisions will be submitted to
the Congress, and while that is pending,
the Administration will move to improve
Amtrak's management efficiency and eco-
nomic viability through the authority
granted by S. 2016 to establish general
guidelines for grants and loans and to re-
view certain aspects of management.
Finally, looking beyond the rail passen-
ger problem to the larger context of the
Nation's overall railroad needs, I want
to emphasize very strongly that my ac-
ceptance of this bill in no way alters my
position that Federal action to shore up
the financial condition of our major
Northeast and Midwest railroad freight
lines must take the form of a private solu-
tion that would impose only a minimal
914
