[43] Feb. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
this country in the forefront of the inter-
national effort to protect the seas.
We can be proud of our record in this
field over the past 4 years. But a record is
not something to stand on, it is something
to build on. Nineteen important natural
resources and environmental bills which
I submitted to the last Congress were not
enacted. In the coming weeks, I shall once
again send these urgently needed pro-
posals to the Congress so that the un-
finished environmental business of the 92d
Congress can become the first environ-
mental achievements of the 93d Congress.
Let me highlight three of the other
major subjects which we will be address-
ing in 1973: wise land use, energy, and a
healthy, expanding farm economy.
Land in America is no longer a resource
we can take for granted. We no longer
live with an open frontier. Just as we must
conserve and protect our air and our
water, so we must conserve and protect
the land--and plan for its wise and bal-
anced use. Some progress is being made-
but antiquated land-use laws, overlapping
jurisdictions, and outdated institutions are
still permitting haphazard development
which can spoil both the utility and the
beauty of the land.
That is why I will urge passage again
this year of legislation designed to en-
courage States to establish effective means
of controlling land use. That is why I will
reintroduce my proposals to bring coher-
ence to Federal mining and mineral leas-
ing laws, better management of the Fed-
eral lands, and enlightened regulation of
surface and underground mining.
The energy crisis was dramatized by
fuel shortages this winter. We must face
up to a stark fact. We are now consuming
more energy than we produce in America.
A year and a half ago I sent to the Con-
gress the first Presidential message ever
devoted to the energy question. I shall
soon submit a new and far more com-
prehensive energy message containing
wide-ranging initiatives to insure neces-
sary supplies of energy at acceptable eco-
nomic and environmental costs. In the
meantime, to help meet immediate needs,
I have temporarily suspended import
quotas on home heating oil east of the
Rocky Mountains.
Energy policy will continue to be a mat-
ter of the highest priority, as shown by my
budget proposal to increase funding for
energy research and development even
in a tight budget year.
One of the most precious natural re-
sources since our earliest days has been
American agriculture. Our farmers have
kept us the best fed, best clothed nation
in the history of mankind, while enabling
us to export farm products at a level that
will reach an alltime annual record of $10
billion this year. Net farm income last
year also reached a record high-over
$19 billion, an increase of 30 percent over
4 years.
This Administration has responded to
the farmer's desire for less Federal inter-
vention by giving him expanded oppor-
tunity in planting his acreage. The day is
gone when Washington can enlarge its
role on the farm at the expense of the
farmer's freedom to make his own deci-
sions. The goal of all our farm policies and
programs is just the reverse. We want
freer markets and expanded individual
responsibility. We want to keep the farmer
on his land and the Goverment off.
I shall recommend a number of addi-
tional initiatives to preserve and enhance
our natural resources in the State of the
Union report on this topic to the Congress
later in the week.
92
