[324] Nov. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
must recognize that standing alone, they
are insufficient. Additional steps must be
taken, and for that purpose, we must have
new legislation.
I am therefore proposing that the Ad-
ministration and the Congress join forces
and together, in a bipartisan spirit, work
to enact an emergency energy bill. Mem-
bers of my Administration have been con-
sulting with appropriate leaders of the
Congress for more than two weeks on this
matter. Yesterday I met with the bi-
partisan leaders of the House and Senate
and found them constructive in spirit and
eager to get on with the job. In the same
manner, I pledge the full cooperation of
my Administration. It is my earnest hope
that by pushing forward together, we can
have new emergency legislation on the
books before the Congress recesses in
December.
Based on previous consultations with
the Congress, I have decided not to send a
specific Administration bill to the Con-
gress on this matter but rather to work
with the Members in developing a meas-
ure that would be acceptable to both the
executive and legislative branches. As part
of that process, I think it would be helpful
to call attention to those provisions that I
think should be included in this emer-
gency bill. At a minimum, I hope that
the act would:
-Authorize restrictions on both the
public and private consumption of energy
by such measures as limitations on essen-
tial uses of energy (office hours, for in-
stance) and elimination of non-essential
uses (decorative lighting, for example);
--Authorize the reduction to 50 miles
per hour of speed limits on highways
across the country;
-Authorize the exemption or granting
of waivers of stationary sources from Fed-
eral and State air and water quality laws
and regulations. Such actions would be
taken through the Administrator of EPA.
-Authorize the exemption of steps
taken under the proposed energy emer-
gency act from the National Environ-
mental Protection Act (NEPA!.
-Provide emergency powers for the
Federal regulatory agencies involved in
transportation to adjust the operations of
air, rail, ship and motor carriers in a
manner responsive to the need to con-
serve fuel.
-Empower the Atomic Energy Com-
mission to grant a temporary operating li-
cense of up to 18 months for nuclear power
plants without holding a public hearing.
Such actions would be subject to all safety
and other requirements normally imposed
by the Commission.
-Authorize the initiation of full pro-
duction in Naval Petroleum Reserve #1
(Elk Hills, California) and the explora-
tion and further development of other
Naval Petroleum Reserves, including Na-
val Petroleum Reserve #4 in Alaska.
-Permit Daylight Saving Time to be
established on a year-round basis.
-And authorize the President, where
practicable, to order a power plant or
other installation to convert from the use
of a fuel such as oil to another fuel such
as coal and to make such equipment con-
versions as are necessary.
In addition to the provisions above,
all of which I believe must be enacted be-
fore December, there are a number of
other authorities which should be pro-
vided as soon as possible and hopefully
will be included in the emergency
measure.
One such provision would grant the
President additional authority to allocate
and ration energy supplies. Under this
924
