Richard Nixon, 1973
May 9 [147]
As you know, in a few weeks I shall
probably be meeting with the leader of
the Soviet Union in a return visit that he
will be making to the United States. And
as the Vice President has indicated, we
have had great progress over the past
year, particularly in trying to work to-
wards not just ending a war that had
gone on much too long-12 years, as a
matter of fact-but in building a more
peaceful world so that, for example, the
leaders of one-fourth of all the people
in the world wouldn't be out there iso-
lated from the rest of the world, with the
danger of a confrontation 15 to 20 years
from now being inherited by our children,
and making progress as we have made it
with the other great super power, the
Soviet Union, progress that does not re-
solve the basic differences between our
various systems of government and our
philosophies. They are there; they will
remain. But progress towards seeing to it
that differences can be resolved around a
conference table after a hard bargain,
which is what we did last year and what
we intend to do as a result of very careful
planning that is now going forward this
year as well.
What I would like to say to you, my
friends, is this: Every individual, I am
sure, who occupies the Office of the Presi-
dent, tries to think of one thing he wants
more than anything else, and I could name
many goals tonight that I would want
more than anything else. But more im-
portant than anything else for the present
President of the United States is the goal
of building a new structure of peace in
the world.
And the reason that is the most impor-
tant goal is that unless the President of
the United States, backed by the people
of the United States and the Congress,
takes the leadership in this field, we will
not have peace. That is the truth of the
matter, because there is no other free
nation that is strong enough, and there
is no other group of nations that has the
will to provide that leadership.
We have tried to meet that responsi-
bility over the past 4 years, and we have
made progress. We are going to continue
to meet that responsibility over the next
32 years, as I have indicated.
But in order to meet it, it is essential
that we concentrate our minds and our
hearts and our souls and our energy to-
ward achieving that goal as well as the
others that I have mentioned in my speech
a few days ago and that the Vice Presi-
dent referred to in his introduction today.
And that brings me to a personal note
referring to everybody here. I have had,
as you know, some political ups and
downs during my 27 years in politics, and
I have known times when I wondered
if I had very many friends. And every man
or woman who has been in politics knows
that when you win, they are all your
friends, and when you lose, it is pretty
hard to find them, except when you lose
and they are still there, they are the real
friends.
Let me say, I don't stand here tonight
as a loser. We stand here tonight as win-
ners, and we are going to win again. But
I shall always remember this group
tonight, remember that when the going
was tough, you hung in there, remember
that when the challenge was greatest, you
didn't lose your faith. And if some of you
think, "Why does this kind of challenge
have to come to us? Why do we have to
endure it?," let me remind you that the
finest steel has to go through the hottest
525
