[222] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
great length, rather than just talking
about peace in the Pacific, which we will,
of course, discuss at great length, we will
discuss the problems of our role in the
whole world, because each of us must
play a role in the world if the world is
to be one that has the opportunity to
enjoy peace and progress in the years to
come.
Japan is a great Pacific power. It is now
a great world power. One cannot speak
of the "Year of Europe," a new European-
American relationship, without also
speaking of Japan. One cannot speak of
such matters as a new situation with re-
gard to international monetary affairs, or
trade, or the rest, as simply being, among
the developed nations, a matter for the
United States to discuss with its Euro-
pean allies.
It is essential that Japan also partici-
pate and contribute, not as a subsidiary
partner, but as an equal partner.
And so, in the spirit of friendship, in the
spirit which we are now glad truly exists,
because of the facts that exist in the world,
we welcome you today as an equal part-
ner, working for a cause to which we are
equally devoted, the cause of progress for
the whole world and for peace for the
whole world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prime Minister Tanaka was given a formal
223 Message Marking the 20th
States Information Agency.
TWENTY YEARS ago, President Eisen-
hower signed the reorganization plan
which established a separate United
States Information Agency to communi-
cate the objectives and policies of the
welcome with full military honors.
See also Items 224 and 225
Prime Minister Tanaka spoke in Japanese.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and gentle-
men:
I have traveled across the Pacific to be here
in Washington, the city of green forests on the
Atlantic coast. I look forward to exchanging
views with President Nixon, not only on the
problems of the Pacific but also on the prob-
lems of the Atlantic.
Since my meeting with President Nixon in
Hawaii a year ago, the world has made great
steps forward towards the establishment of a
"durable peace," thanks to the untiring effort
of President Nixon. At the same time, the re-
lations between Japan and the United States
have expanded greatly both in breadth and in
depth. In the light of these developments, I
am deeply convinced that it is all the more
important for the peoples of our two countries,
as partners, to develop a full grasp of the
national characteristics and the social fabric
of each other. In this modern age of highly
advanced communications and transportation,
we should make every effort to deepen the
understanding among the nations and the
peoples.
On the occasion of this visit, I wish to meet
as many of your people as possible and to con-
vey to them the warm and close feelings of good
will of the Japanese people towards the Amer-
ican people and thereby strengthen the bond
of friendship between our two countries.
Let me now conclude by expressing my deep-
est gratitude toward the kind welcome given
to my party here today.
Anniversary of the United
July 31, 1973
United States to the people of other na-
tions and to increase mutual understand-
ing between the people of the United
States and other peoples of the world.
For two decades, the USIA has pre-
672
