[79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
statistics show such fatalities declined ap-
proximately 6 percent in 1972 compared
to 1971.
In spite of these accomplishments,
however, it is still estimated that one-
third to one-half of all individuals arrested
for street crimes continue to be narcotics
abusers and addicts. What this suggests is
that in the area of enforcement we are
still only holding our own, and we must
increase the tools available to do the job.
The work of the Special Action Office
for Drug Abuse Prevention has aided in
smoothing the large expansion of Federal
effort in the area of drug treatment and
prevention. Now we must move to im-
prove Federal action in the area of law
enforcement.
Drug abuse treatment specialists have
continuously emphasized in their discus-
sions with me the need for strong, effec-
tive law enforcement to restrict the avail-
ability of drugs and to punish the pusher.
One area where I am convinced of the
need for immediate action is that of jail-
ing heroin pushers. Under the Bail Re-
form Act of 1966, a Federal judge is
precluded from considering the danger to
the community when setting bail for sus-
pects arrested for selling heroin. The
effect of this restriction is that many ac-
cused pushers are immediately released
on bail and are thus given the opportunity
to go out and create more misery, gener-
ate more violence, and commit more
crimes while they are waiting to be tried
for these same activities.
In a study of 422 accused violators, the
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous
Drugs found that 71 percent were freed
on bail for a period ranging from three
months to more than one year between
the time of arrest and the time of trial.
Nearly 40 percent of the total were free
for a period ranging from one-half year
to more than one year. As for the major
cases, those involving pushers accused of
trafficking in large quantities of heroin,
it was found that one-fourth were free
for over three months to one-half year;
one-fourth were free for one-half year to
one year; and 16 percent remained free
for over one year prior to their trial.
In most cases these individuals had
criminal records. One-fifth had been con-
victed of a previous drug charge and a
total of 64 percent had a record of prior
felony arrests. The cost of obtaining such
a pre-trial release in most cases was mini-
mal: 19 percent of the total sample were
freed on personal recognizance and only
23 percent were required to post bonds of
$10,000 or more.
Sentencing practices have also been
found to be inadequate in many cases. In
a study of 955 narcotics drug violators
who were arrested by the Bureau of Nar-
cotics and Dangerous Drugs and con-
victed in the courts, a total of 27 percent
received sentences other than imprison-
ment. Most of these individuals were
placed on probation.
This situation is intolerable. I am there-
fore calling upon the Congress to
promptly enact a new Heroin Trafficking
Act.
The first part of my proposed legisla-
tion would increase the sentences for
heroin and morphine offenses.
For a first offense of trafficking in less
than four ounces of a mixture or sub-
stance containing heroin or morphine, it
provides a mandatory sentence of not less
than five years nor more than fifteen
years. For a first offense of trafficking in
four or more ounces, it provides a manda-
tory sentence of not less than ten years or
for life.
200
