[100] Mar. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
The details will be covered this morning.
I will say only one thing about the Federal
budget. It is a very big one, the largest
in history. As far as the programs for
domestic purposes, the total amount is
twice the amount that I first submitted
4 years ago, so it is not a niggardly budget.
There is a reasonable disagreement and
an honest disagreement among Members
of the House and Senate; Republicans as
well as Democrats in many areas feel
that we ought to ask more. That is not
unusual; that is always the case. You will
hear the case for why we are asking for
the amount that we are, overall $268 bil-
lion, and why going over that amount
would lead to either a tax increase or a
price increase or both, and why, there-
fore, we have to hold the line and hold it
firmly in these areas.
Enough of that particular point with
regard to the overall amount. If you get
into specific items, naturally you can ques-
tion the expert here about this program or
that one to see whether or not you think
we are adequately funding them. You can
also go into the matter of priorities. But
one very significant point about this
budget that has not gotten through yet
adequately is in the area of what is called
special revenue sharing.
It is a bad term-a bad term because
many have gotten the impression that
special revenue sharing is really some-
what the same as general revenue sharing.
And consequently, the impression has
gotten around that we are suggesting in
this Administration that some of those
areas where we have not gone forward
with old programs that have not worked-
and the Congress wants us to go forward-
that we are saying to the States and the
counties and the cities that supported
general revenue sharing, "Look here, if
you want to continue some of these pro-
grams that we think on the merits should
not be continued, you can take it out of
general revenue sharing."
Let me say one thing very clearly: We
pledged to the States, and to the counties,
and to the cities that general revenue
sharing was new money. That pledge is
being kept, and we are not suggesting to
you that as far as any programs that we
are discussing here today, if you want to
take them despite the fact that we feel
they should be discontinued or sharply cut
back for reasons on the merits, that you
should therefore take it out of general
revenue sharing.
The special revenue sharing, of course,
is something else again. It is rather, it
seemed to me, appropriate for me to talk
about it briefly in this room which is so
full of history.
The first President to live in this house,
as you know, was not George Washington,
but John Adams, and the plaque back
here is about John Adams, and it might
be interesting to read it because most of
you who are here perhaps don't get on
the guided tours, and when you are on
the guided tours they usually keep people
away from anything they can pick up and
carry away. [Laughter]
What it says is that, "I pray heaven
to bestow the best of blessings on this
house, and all that shall [hereafter] in-
habit it. May none but honest and wise
men ever rule under this roof."
That was, incidentally, an inscription
that was suggested by Mrs. Adams in the
letter to John Adams, and it is the one
that is in this historic State Dining Room
where so many important people have
been entertained over the years since that
time.
Now, I mention John Adams because
240
