[14] Jan. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
cure of a number of diseases which are
widespread in Asia.
In addition, during the past year, the
scientific scope of this program was en-
larged to include studies of methods to
evaluate certain types of cancer which
may be related to environmental pollu-
tion. A detailed review of the program's
activities in leprosy and parasitic diseases
was also completed, and a decision made
to continue work in these areas.
The sustained success of this biomedi-
cal research program reflects its careful
management, its continuously refined
scientific focus, and the strong commit-
ment to it by both of our countries. The
increasingly effective research planning
and communication between investigators
in our two countries has intensified our
scientific productivity and strengthened
our determination to work together to-
ward better health for all mankind.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
January 26, 1973-
NOTE: The 14-page report is entitled "Sixth
Annual Report to Congress on the United
States-Japan Cooperative Medical Science
Program."
15 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Endowment for the Arts and the
National Council on the Arts. January 26, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
It gives me great pleasure to transmit
to the Congress the Annual Report of the
National Council on the Arts and the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts for fiscal
year 1972.
This Nation's cultural heritage is a
source of enormous pride. It is also a
source of communication, of ideas, of joy
and beauty. And increasingly--and per-
haps most important-it is a source of
creative self-expression for countless mil-
lions of Americans.
As this Annual Report shows, the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts has an
outstanding record of accomplishment in
advancing the artistic development of the
Nation. Its funds during the year under
review, $29.750,000, were nearly double
those of the previous year. Through its
programs, the Endowment provides es-
sential support for our famous cultural
institutions our opera, theatre, dance
companies, our orchestras, our museums.
The Endowment encourages our finest
artists, providing new opportunities to
gifted young creators and performers to
expand their talent and to develop their
careers. And the Endowment makes avail-
able to all of our people the very best our
artists can do.
Under the guidance of the National
Council on the Arts, the Endowment has
effectively used its monies not only to
support a wide range of cultural activities,
but also to stimulate increased private
support for the arts. I view this as essen-
tial, for if the arts are to flourish, the
broad authority for cultural development
must remain with the people of the Na-
tion-not with government.
As our Bicentennial approaches, the
cultural activities of America will take on
even greater importance. Our art ex-
presses the ideals, the history, the life of
the Nation. The cultural heritages of all
26
