Richard Nixon, 1973
July 19 [208]
and other factors have raised the esti-
mated revenues to about the level of the
original expenditure estimate. However,
while that was happening the probable
expenditures have also been rising as a
result of higher interest rates, new legis-
lation enacted, failure of Congress to act
on some of my recommendations, and
Congressional action already far ad-
vanced but not completed.
It is clear that several billion dollars
will have to be cut from the expenditures
that are already probable if we are to
balance the budget. That will be hard,
because my original budget was tight.
However, I regard it as essential and
pledge myself to work for it.
We should remember that a little over
a year ago I set as a goal for fiscal year
1973 to hold expenditures within a total
of $250 billion. There was much skepti-
cism about that at the time and sugges-
tions that the number was for political
consumption only, to be forgotten after
the election. But I meant it, the people
endorsed it, and the Congress cooperated.
I am able to report today that the goal
was achieved, and total expenditures for
fiscal year 1973 were below $249 billion.
I will take those steps that I can take
administratively to reach the goal of a
balanced budget for fiscal year 1974. I
shall start by ordering that the number
of Federal civilian personnel at the end
of fiscal year 1974 total below the num-
ber now budgeted. The Office of Man-
agement and Budget will work with the
agencies on this and other reductions. I
urge the Congress to assist in this effort.
Without its cooperation, achievement of
the goal cannot be realistically expected.
Despite the difficult conditions and
choices we now confront, the American
economy is strong. Total production is
about 62 percent above a year ago, em-
ployment has risen by 3 million, real in-
comes are higher than ever. There is every
prospect for further increases of output,
employment, and incomes. Even in the
field of inflation our performance is bet-
ter than in most of the world. So we should
not despair of our plight. But we have
problems, and they are serious in part
because we and the rest of the world
expect the highest performance from the
American economy. We can do better.
And we will, with mutual understanding
and the support of the American people.
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11730, modifying his earlier
price freeze, and Proclamation 4230, increasing
import quotas for nonfat dry milk.
The White House, on the same day, released
a fact sheet, a summary, and the transcript of a
news briefing on Phase IV of the economic sta-
bilization program by Secretary of the Treasury
George P. Shultz.
On July 19, 1973, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on Phase IV
by Secretary Shultz and Peter M. Flanigan,
Assistant to the President for International
Economic Affairs.
208 Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol Amending
the 1928 Convention Concerning International
Expositions. July 19, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith the Protocol
amending the Convention signed at Paris
on November 22, 1928, concerning inter-
national expositions with a view to re-
ceiving the advice and consent of the
653
