[287] Oct. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Committee on Environmental Quality.
This Committee is chaired by Mr. Henry
Diamond of New York and includes 15 of
the Nation's leading citizens. Its report,
which will receive wide distribution,
makes extensive recommendations for
citizen actions to cut back their energy
demands.
Our campaign to meet America's
energy needs is not confined, of course, to
conservation. We are also pushing to in-
crease supplies through both executive
and legislative means. We have already
taken a number of executive actions, such
as accelerating the leasing of offshore oil
rights, and if other steps should become
appropriate, I will not hesitate to take
them. On the legislative front, there are
still seven major proposals awaiting pas-
sage on Capitol Hill, and I am anxious
that at least four of these bills be enacted
before the end of the year.
In addition, we are asking that all citi-
zens be prepared to bear their share of
possible shortages. To that end, the Ad-
ministration has just announced its deci-
sion to establish a program of mandatory
allocation for home heating oil and pro-
pane. It should be understood that this
action will not increase available supplies,
but will merely distribute supplies so that,
insofar as possible, no areas will face
critical shortages and any possible incon-
veniences will be shared equally by all
Americans.
Our energy program is thus all-embrac-
ing. We must act to increase supplies, and
we must insure a fair distribution of those
supplies. But equally important, we must
not consume more than we need. We must
not waste energy.
Whenever Americans have been called
upon to join together and work together
in the national interest, they have re-
sponded. We need the united action of all
Americans now to conserve the fuel we
must have to meet our vital energy needs.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing following the meeting with the Presi-
dent to discuss energy conservation. Partici-
pants in the news briefing were Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Interior; Frederick B.
Dent, Secretary of Commerce; John A. Love,
Director of the Energy Policy Office: John R.
Quarles, Jr., Deputy Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency; Virginia H.
Knauer, Special Assistant to the President for
Consumer Affairs; and Henry L.. Diamond,
Chairman of the Citizens' Advisory Committee
on Environmental Quality.
An announcement of the appointment of six
members of the Citizens' Advisory Council on
Environmental Quality was also released by
the White House and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, p. 1232).
288 Toasts of the President and President Houphouet-
Boigny of the Republic of Ivory Coast.
October 9, 1973
Mr. President:
It is a very great pleasure to welcome
you and your very lovely First Lady at the
White House on this occasion, and because
I know that this company and all of those
who will be listening in the press room
below are more interested in what you will
be saying than what I will be saying, my
remarks will be brief.
But first let me say that perhaps my
greatest expert on foreign affairs is not
really Dr. Kissinger, but my wife. And
852
