[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
of my Peking trip. Prime Minister Sato
and I found that we were in substantial
agreement on the major issues of peace in
the Far East; the lessening of tensions in
Asia was the goal both allies sought. There
was no diminution of our overriding com-
mitment to our alliance.
In Peking a month later, when the Peo-
ple's Republic of China expressed its
reservations about the U.S.-Japan Secu-
rity Treaty and its fears of so-called Japa-
nese "militarism," the United States
declared categorically in the Shanghai
Communique itself that "the United
States places the highest value on its
friendly relations with Japan" and "will
continue to develop the existing close
bonds."
At my summit meeting in Hawaii with
Japan's new Prime Minister, Kakuei
Tanaka, we addressed our common diplo-
macy as well as our economic problems.
We discussed global issues, Asian issues,
and bilateral issues, and strongly re-
affirmed the commitment of both coun-
tries to our political alliance. It was
quickly evident that our China policies,
while not identical, were still in basic
harmony. Prime Minister Tanaka's own
historic journey to Peking was proof of
this. Overcoming a legacy of bitterness
and mistrust far deeper than that be-
tween the United States and the People's
Republic of China, these two great Asian
nations pledged themselves to the same
goals as the Shanghai Communique, and
went beyond it to the establishment of full
diplomatic relations.
Thus, there is no inconsistency in prin-
ciple between our alliance and the new
hopeful prospects of relaxation of tension
multilaterally. No third country need fear
our alliance. Neither Japan nor the
United States need fear that our unity
precludes a broader community of nor-
malized relations, or independent
approaches.
In the years ahead, the kind of close
consultation between the United States
and Japan which accompanied our re-
spective Peking Summits in 1972 will be
critically important to all our diplomatic
endeavors. More than our alliance is at
stake. Japan has always been conscious
of the external global framework within
which she was pursuing her own objec-
tives. What is new in the 1970's is her
sharing in increased responsibility for it.
This responsibility is now implied in-
escapably in her economic power and her
engagement in many directions in global
diplomacy.
The complexity of today's geopolitical
environment, even in the Asian context
alone, is a challenge to a nation of Japan's
energy and national spirit undertaking a
more active political role. Japan now has
the obligations of a major power-
restraint, reciprocity, reliability, and sensi-
tivity to her overriding interest in a stable
pattern of global relationships.
Today's multilateralism does not dimin-
ish the importance of the U.S.-Japanese
alliance. On the contrary, our alliance,
which has ensured stability in Asia for
20 years, still does, and serves an essential
mutual interest in the new conditions.
Secured by her alliance with the United
States, Japan can engage herself econom-
ically and diplomatically in many direc-
tions independently, without fearing for
her security or being feared by others. It
provides a stable framework for the evolu-
tion of Japanese policy. This is a general
interest.
The U.S.-Japanese alliance in the new
era is thus presented with the same chal-
lenge as the Atlantic Alliance. We cannot
424
