Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 11 [6]
related arrangements.
This Treaty demonstrates once again
the desire and willingness of the United
States to settle, in a spirit of understand-
ing and good will, differences which may
exist in our relations with other coun-
tries particularly with our Latin Ameri-
can neighbors. I urge that the Senate act
favorably on the Treaty in the near
future.
The White House,
January 9, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the treaty and accompany-
ing papers are printed in Senate Executive A
(93d Cong., 1st sess.).
6 Special Message to the Congress Announcing Phase III
of the Economic Stabilization Program and Requesting
Extension of Authorizing Legislation. January 11, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
During 1969, the annual rate of infla-
tion in the United States was about six
percent. During my first term in office,
that rate has been cut nearly in half and
today the United States has the lowest
rate of inflation of any industrial country
in the free world.
In the last year and a half, this decline
in inflation has been accompanied by a
rapid economic expansion. Civilian em-
ployment rose more rapidly during the
past year than ever before in our history
and unemployment substantially declined.
We now have one of the highest economic
growth rates in the developed world.
In short, 1972 was a very good year for
the American economy. I expect 1973
and 1974 to be even better. They can, in
fact, be the best years our economy has
ever experienced-provided we have the
will and wisdom, in both the public and
private sectors, to follow appropriate eco-
nomic policies.
For the past several weeks, members of
my Administration have been reviewing
our economic policies in an effort to keep
them up to date. I deeply appreciate the
generous advice and excellent suggestions
we have received in our consultations with
the Congress. We are also grateful for the
enormous assistance we have received
from hundreds of leaders representing
business, labor, farm and consumer
groups, and the general public. These dis-
cussions have been extremely helpful to
us in reaching several central conclusions
about our economic future.
One major point which emerges as we
look both at the record of the past and
the prospects for the future is the central
role of our Federal monetary and fiscal
policies. We cannot keep inflation in check
unless we keep Government spending in
check. This is why I have insisted that our
spending for fiscal year 1973 not exceed
$250 billion and that our proposed budget
for fiscal year 1974 not exceed the reve-
nues which the existing tax system would
produce at full employment. I hope and
expect that the Congress will receive this
budget with a similar sense of fiscal disci-
pline. The stability of our prices depends
on the restraint of the Congress.
As we move into a new year, and into a
new term for this Administration, we are
also moving to a new phase of our eco-
nomic stabilization program. I believe the
9
