Richard Nixon, 1973
[77]
Mar. 13
branch has the responsibility of withholding
certain information the disclosure of which
would be incompatible with the public interest,
this Administration will invoke this authority
only in the most compelling circumstances and
after a rigorous inquiry into the actual need
for its exercise. For those reasons Executive
privilege will not be used without specific Pres-
idential approval. The following procedural
steps will govern the invocation of Executive
privilege:
1. If the head of an Executive department or
agency (hereafter referred to as "department
head") believes that compliance with a request
for information from a Congressional agency
addressed to his department or agency raises a
substantial question as to the need for invoking
Executive privilege, he should consult the At-
torney General through the Office of Legal
Counsel of the Department of Justice.
2. If the department head and the Attorney
General agree, in accordance with the policy set
forth above, that Executive privilege shall not
be invoked in the circumstances, the informa-
tion shall be released to the inquiring Congres-
sional agency.
3. If the department head and the Attorney
General agree that the circumstances justify the
invocation of Executive privilege, or if either
of them believes that the issue should be sub-
mitted to the President, the matter shall be
transmitted to the Counsel to the President,
who will advise the department head of the
President's decision.
4. In the event of a Presidential decision to
invoke Executive privilege, the department
head should advise the Congressional agency
that the claim of Executive privilege is being
made with the specific approval of the
President.
5. Pending a final determination of the mat-
ter, the department head should request the
Congressional agency to hold its demand for the
information in abeyance until such determina-
tion can be made. Care shall be taken to indi-
cate that the purpose of this request is to pro-
tect the privilege pending the determination,
and that the request does not constitute a claim
of privilege.
RICHARD NIXON
On March 14, 1973, the White House issued
the text of a letter from John W. Dean III,
Counsel to the President, to Senator James O.
Eastland, chairman of the Committee on the
Judiciary, declining the invitation of the com-
mittee to appear and testify formally. The text
of the letter is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 255).
77 Remarks at a Reception for the Association of
American Foreign Service Women. March 13, 1973
AS MOST of you here in this room are
perhaps aware, there is perhaps never a
day that goes by in the White House that
a reception doesn't take place. Many
times, of course, because they are con-
sidered social receptions, they get very
little coverage in the papers and that sort,
but they are not really held for that pur-
pose. They are held for those who come
and because of our desire and Mrs.
Nixon's desire, particularly, to recognize
the contributions of so many people in
Government and outside of Government
to our national life.
I normally don't get to these recep-
tions. I don't mean that I am doing more
important things, necessarily. As a matter
of fact, I was just meeting with the Cost of
Living Council. [Laughter]
Somebody said, "You don't live by ham-
burger alone." I said, "I used to."
But anyway, we are working on that
problem which affects all of you, and
others.
I noted that you were going to be here,
and I just wanted to come by to express a
personal word to you, just
just as I had an op-
portunity to express a personal word to
187
