[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
military forces in Central Europe was re-
lated to the strategic balance between the
United States and Soviet Union and to
the political situation within the War-
saw Pact.
For these reasons, the NATO proposals
of June 1968 to begin negotiations on
force reductions were received coolly by
the Warsaw Pact. Not until the Berlin
and SALT agreements were concluded
in 1972 was it possible to work out a se-
quence for beginning negotiations in sepa-
rate forums on a Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe and on mu-
tual and balanced force reductions.
The initial talks on mutual and bal-
anced force reductions, now underway in
Vienna, will lay the groundwork for more
formal negotiations next fall. The military
and arms control aspects of force reduc-
tions are treated in other sections of this
Report. Certain points that affect Atlantic
political unity should be summarized.
Perhaps more than any other single is-
sue, the problem of force reductions crys-
talizes the basic issue of reconciling Alli-
ance unity and national diversity. We will
need an unprecedented degree of unity on
fundamental military and political secu-
rity questions. The outcome of the nego-
tiations will affect the entire Alliance,
regardless of who sits at the table or which
forces are reduced. Indeed, the very
process of negotiating will test our com-
mon purposes.
Each member brings to this issue
strongly held national viewpoints. We
must avoid efforts to protect national in-
terests by procedural devices or tactical
solutions. That approach would merely
defer or avoid the hard questions. Ulti-
mately it will be disruptive and open the
Alliance to exploitation by the other side.
Our goal must be agreement on basic
security principles. We must meet indivi-
dual national concerns within a common
concept of security, and forthrightly ad-
dress the question of how to maintain our
security at reduced force levels. The is-
sues are highly sensitive, and Alliance dis-
cussions will be painstaking and difficult.
The United States is engaged in the
most serious consultations with our allies
to prepare for negotiations later this year.
Force reductions in Central Europe are, of
course, an element of the complex of U.S.-
Soviet relations. The U.S. and Soviet
forces are comparable in that they are not
indigenous to Central Europe and might
be candidates for reduction.
The United States will not subordinate
the security of the Alliance to Soviet-
American relations. We are aware of Eu-
ropean concerns in this regard. Repeated
American reassurances, however, have not
alleviated these concerns. Mutual confi-
dence within the Alliance will develop
only through an agreement on the basic
security framework for the negotiations.
RELATIONS WITH EASTERN EUROPE
The improvement in our relations with
the Soviet Union during 1972 has created
a better atmosphere for our relations with
the countries of Eastern Europe. But we
do not regard our relations with any East
European countries as a function of our
relations with Moscow. We reject the idea
of special rights or advantages for outside
powers in the region. We welcomed and
responded to opportunities to develop our
relations with the East European coun-
tries long before the Moscow Summit.
And we shall continue to seek ways to ex-
pand our economic, scientific, technologi-
414
