Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 10 [74]
penalties, the correctional institutions, and
the rehabilitation programs we need to do
the job.
Next week I will propose a revision of
the entire Federal Criminal Code,
modernizing it and strengthening it, to
close the loopholes and tailor our laws to
present day needs. When I say "mod-
ernize,” incidentally, I do not mean to be
soft on crime; I mean exactly the
opposite.
Our new Code will give us tougher
penalties and stronger weapons in the war
against dangerous drugs and organized
crime. It will rationalize the present patch-
work quilt of punishments for crime. It
will substantially raise current limits on
monetary fines. And it will restrict the
present absurd use of the insanity defense.
I am further proposing that the death
penalty be restored for certain Federal
crimes. At my direction, the Attorney
General has drafted a statute consistent
with the Supreme Court's recent decision
on the death penalty. This statute will
provide capital punishment for cases of
murder over which the Federal Govern-
ment has jurisdiction, and for treason and
other war-related crimes.
Contrary to the views of some social
theorists, I am convinced that the death
penalty can be an effective deterrent
against specific crimes. The death penalty
is not a deterrent so long as there is doubt
whether it can be applied. The law I will
propose would remove this doubt.
The potential criminal will know that
if his intended victims die, he may also
die. The hijacker, the kidnaper, the man
who throws a firebomb, the convict who
attacks a prison guard, the person who as-
saults an officer of the law--all will know
that they may pay with their own lives
for any lives that they take.
This statute will be a part of my pro-
posed reform of the Federal Criminal
Code. However, because there is an im-
mediate need for this sanction, I have di-
rected the Attorney General to submit a
death penalty statute as a separate pro-
posal so that the Congress can act rapidly
on this single provision.
Drug abuse is still public enemy number
one in America. Let me tell you about
some of the tragic letters I have received
at the White House from victims of drugs.
One tells about a 5-year-old boy hos-
pitalized in Missouri. Someone gave him
LSD.
One is from a boy 18 years old who had
spent 11 months in a mental hospital try-
ing to get rid of his drug addiction. He
started with marijuana. He is asking me
for help because his 14-year-old brother
has begun to use drugs.
Another is from a mother in California.
Her son committed suicide. He could not
end his drug habit, so he ended his life.
One of the things that comes through
so forcefully in these letters is the sense
of despair of people who feel they have no
place to turn for help, and so they write
to the White House. I intend to help them.
We have already made encouraging
progress in the war against drug abuse.
Now we must consolidate that progress
and strike even harder.
One area in which I am convinced of
the need for more immediate action is that
of putting heroin pushers in prison and
keeping them there. A recent study by the
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs
revealed that more than 70 percent of
those accused of being narcotics violators
are freed on bail for a period of 3 months
to 1 year between the time of arrest and
the time of trial. They are thus given the
opportunity to go out and create more
181
