[23] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
with the leaders the point that the United
States would consider for both North
Vietnam and South Vietnam and the
other countries in the area a reconstruc-
tion program.
I, of course, recognized in raising this
with the leaders that there would have to
be Congressional consultation and Con-
gressional support. In terms of this par-
ticular matter at this time, Dr. Kissinger
will be having an initial conversation with
the North Vietnamese with regard to this
whole reconstruction program.
I should also say that I have noted that
many Congressmen and Senators and
many of the American people are not
keen on helping any of the countries in
that area, just as they are not keen on for-
eign aid generally. But as far as I am con-
cerned, whether it is with the North or the
South or the other countries in the area,
I look upon this as a potential investment
in peace. To the extent that the North
Vietnamese, for example, participate with
us and with other interested countries in
reconstruction of North Vietnam, they
will have a tendency to turn inward to
the works of peace rather than turning
outward to the works of war.
This, at least, is our motive, and we will
know more about it after Dr. Kissinger
completes his talks with them, which we
think will be quite extensive and very
frank since he has already, obviously,
paved the way for it.
Q. I mean, is the date a coincidence?
THE PRESIDENT. The date is a pure
coincidence, and Dr. Kissinger will not
be meeting with the prisoners of war. In-
cidentally, speaking of the POW question,
I have noted some speculation in the
press, and it isn't I should say it's spec-
ulation that is justified, because I under-
stand there was a Defense Department
report to this effect, that I was going to
go out to Travis Air Force Base to meet
the first POW's when they came in.
I do not intend to do so. I have the
greatest admiration for the prisoners of
war, for their stamina and their courage
and the rest, and also for their wives and
their parents and their children who have
been so strong during this long period of
their vigil.
This is a time that we should not grand-
stand it; we should not exploit it. We
should remember that it is not like as-
tronauts coming back from the Moon after
what is, of course, a very, shall we say.
spectacular and dangerous journey, but
these are men who have been away some-
times for years. They have a right to have
privacy, they have a right to be home with
their families just as quickly as they pos-
sibly can. And I am going to respect that
right, of course, to the extent that any of
them or their families desiring to visit the
White House can be sure that they will be
very high on the list.
WELCOMING OF PRISONERS OF WAR
[2] Q. Mr. President. Dr. Kissinger
is going to Vietnam and is due there in
Hanoi on February 10. Is this related in
any way with the first prisoners of war to
come out of Hanoi?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all.
DOMESTIC DIVISIONS AND AMNESTY
[3] Q. Mr. President, do you have
anything specifically in mind to help heal
the wounds in this country, the divisions
over the war, and specifically, anything
down the road much farther in terms of
amnesty?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it takes two to
54
