[131] Apr. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
because they stood together, fought to-
gether, prayed together, the Nation is very
fortunate, because we continue to have
his service.
Now a word about that service and
what it has meant. Senator Stennis has
made some very kind remarks about the
leadership of the President of the United
States over these past 4 years and par-
ticularly the year 1972. Let me, in turn,
tell you how it was possible.
There were some hard decisions. There
were times when I made those decisions
when I felt that I was pretty much alone,
at least as far as the city of Washington
was concerned. However, out in the coun-
try that wasn't the case. And it wasn't also
the case as far as Washington itself was
concerned, once you talked to people like
Senator Stennis, Senator Eastland, Con-
gressman Hébert, the other Congressmen
who are here—and there were many in
the House and Senate, Democrat and Re-
publican, who stood firm during these
crises.
What I am suggesting is this: A Presi-
dent can make a hard decision, but a
President is not able to carry out that
decision unless, in the final analysis, he
has the support of the people. And in this
case, whether it was the decision which I
thought was essential on May 8 to mine
Haiphong and bomb North Vietnam,
which triggered the first negotiation, or
whether it was the decision, the much
more difficult one, at Christmastime to
renew the bombing of North Vietnam
with B-52's, another very difficult deci-
sion, whatever the case was, I understood
why many disagreed.
I understood why many did not under-
stand. I understood why many people said,
"Get us peace; get it any way you can.
Get out of Vietnam if they will just give
our POW's back." And may I say that
that was a very attractive argument at
times, because I thought about those
POW's and their wives, most of whom
or many of whom I had spoken before
and many of whom I had met, and I
wanted them back.
But what made me realize I had made
the right decision was when one of them
came in to see me a few weeks ago and
he said, "The slogan of our POW camp
was 'Home With Honor,'" and they are
home with honor, and that is what
matters.
Why does honor matter? It matters be-
cause Senator Stennis has pointed out that
the United States, whether we want it or
not, has the responsibility to be the leader
in the world for peace and freedom.
There is no other free nation that has
the strength and no other one that has
the will, and if we abdicate that respon-
sibility, our children will grow up in a
world in which there will be neither peace
nor freedom. So that is the choice that we
are making now; that is the choice that
this center and all the other naval in-
stallations and other installations for our
national defense are about.
What I am saying very simply is this:
In the year 1972 we opened communica-
tions with the leaders of one-fourth of the
people in the world, the People's Re-
public of China. In the year 1972 we be-
gan negotiations with the Soviet Union
and for the first time have an arms lim-
itation agreement in terms of nuclear
arms. And in the year 1972, as it ended
and came into 1973, we got a peace agree-
ment in Vietnam, one which now must be
enforced.
The question now is where do we go
322
