[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Judge Sirica saw him on Tuesday in
camera. The White House Counsel re-
ported to Judge Sirica that the two tapes
did not exist and gave him the reasons
for it.
The judge decided, and I think quite
properly, that the reasons for the tape not
existing should be made public and those
involved with access to the tapes and those
who operated the machines should be
questioned so that there would be no ques-
tion of the White House, somebody
around the President, or even the Presi-
dent himself, having destroyed evidence
that was important, even though the Sen-
ate committee had not, as I have already
pointed out, subpoenaed either of these
two tapes.
And since we are on this subject, and I
do not want to be taking all of the time
on it except that I know there is going
to be enormous interest in it, not only
among this audience here but among our
television viewers, let me point this out:
I have done everything that I possibly
can to provide the evidence that would
have existed had we found the tapes.
First, with regard to the tape of June 20,
as you may recall, it was a 5-minute tele-
phone conversation with the former At-
torney General, John Mitchell, who had
just left as campaign manager or was
planning to leave as campaign manager
at that time.
I have a practice of keeping a personal
diary I can assure you not every day.
Sometimes you are too tired at the end of
a day to either make notes or dictate it
into a dictabelt.
On that particular day, I happened to
have dictated a dictabelt, and on the dic-
tabelt for June 20, which I found, I found
that I had referred to the conversation to
John Mitchell. And I think it is fair to
disclose to this audience what was there,
because it will be disclosed to the court. It
has already been offered to the court and
eventually, I assume, will be made public.
It said, first, that I called John Mitchell
to cheer him up, because I knew he was
terribly disheartened by what had hap-
pened in the so-called Watergate matter.
Second, he expressed chagrin to me that
the organization over which he had con-
trol could have gotten out of hand in this
way.
That was what was on that tape.
Now, turning to the one on April 15,
I thought that I might have a dictabelt
of that conversation as well.
Let me tell you first why the telephone
conversation was not recorded. Not be-
cause of any deliberate attempt to keep
the recording from the public, but be-
cause the only telephones in the residence
of the White House which are recorded—
the only telephone, there is only one, is
the one that is in the office, the little Lin-
coln Sitting Room right off the Lincoln
Bedroom. The call I made to John
Mitchell was made at the end of the day
at about 6:30, just before going into din-
ner from the family quarters, and no tele-
phones in the family quarters ever were
recorded. That is why the recording did
not exist.
Turning to April 15, the conversation
referred to there was at the end of the
process in which Mr. Dean came in to
tell me what he had told the U.S. attor-
neys that day. He saw me at 9 o'clock at
night, Sunday night. There should have
been a recording. Everybody thought
there probably was a recording. The rea-
son there was not a recording is that the
tape machines over the weekend only can
carry 6 hours of conversation, and usually
that is more than enough, because I do
not use the EOB office-that is, the Exec-
948
