Richard Nixon, 1973
June 8 [173]
some simple, some fantastic, some utterly
unimaginable.
As I propose a toast to the President of these
great United States, I wonder if my grand-
father, D. Frank Tolbert-freed over a century
ago by the signature of a man who occupied
the seat that Richard Nixon, the noble archi-
tect of peace, now occupies-I wonder if D.
Frank Tolbert could have dreamed that his
grandson would ever have had the honor of
being toasted in this place by so great a per-
sonality as you, Mr. President?
Thank God it happened to me, the repre-
sentative of a grateful people committed to
work together with all men of good will in
structuring a better world for all men to live
together in peace, with justice, happiness, and
with human dignity.
Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the
United States.
172 Message to Captain Charles Conrad, Jr., USN,
Commander of the Skylab 1 Crew. June 7, 1973
ON BEHALF of the American people I
congratulate and commend you and your
crew on your successful effort to repair
the world's first true space station.
In the 2 weeks since you left the
Earth, you have more than fulfilled the
prophecy of your parting words, "We can
fix anything." All of us now have new
courage that man can work in space to
control his environment, improve his cir-
cumstances, and exert his will even as he
does on Earth.
NOTE: The message was relayed to Skylab 1
astronauts Captain Conrad, Comdr. Joseph P.
Kerwin, USN, and Comdr. Paul J. Weitz, USN,
by officials at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space
Center at Houston, Tex.
By deploying a jammed solar-panel wing
which converts sunlight to electricity, the astro-
nauts had made possible a more efficient op-
eration of the scientific capabilities of the space
station.
173 Remarks at Commencement Exercises of Florida
Technological University, Orlando, Florida.
June 8, 1973
Dr. Millican, members of the graduating
class of 1973, members of the faculty, all
of the parents and others here who are
here to congratulate the members of the
graduating class, and all of our very dis-
tinguished guests:
First, may I express to Dr. Millican and
to all of you my appreciation for your
very warm welcome. I got the message
with regard to the length of my speech.
That is why I am not going to read the
one that Dr. Millican had prepared and
was going to deliver.
DR. CHARLES N. MILLICAN. Mr. Presi-
dent, I am not sure this is appropriate,
but let us do it anyway. You do not have
to use that speech at all, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I will read it, but
not here.
DR. MILLICAN. In the local news media,
there have been two or three comments
about my getting bumped as the com-
mencement speaker and being replaced
by you, sir, but I cannot think of a better
pinch-hitter than the President of the
United States.
577
