[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly by the President of the United
States. They agreed with me that this
move was necessary in order to restore
that confidence.
Because Attorney General Kleindienst-
though a distinguished public servant, my
personal friend for 20 years, with no per-
sonal involvement whatever in this mat-
ter-has been a close personal and
professional associate of some of those who
are involved in this case, he and I both felt
that it was also necessary to name a new
Attorney General.
The Counsel to the President, John
Dean, has also resigned.
As the new Attorney General, I have
today named Elliot Richardson, a man of
unimpeachable integrity and rigorously
high principle. I have directed him to do
everything necessary to ensure that the
Department of Justice has the confidence
and the trust of every law-abiding person
in this country.
I have given him absolute authority to
make all decisions bearing upon the pros-
ecution of the Watergate case and related
matters. I have instructed him that if he
should consider it appropriate, he has the
authority to name a special supervising
prosecutor for matters arising out of the
case.
Whatever may appear to have been the
case before, whatever improper activities
may yet be discovered in connection with
this whole sordid affair, I want the Amer-
ican people, I want you to know beyond
the shadow of a doubt that during my
term as President, justice will be pursued
fairly, fully, and impartially, no matter
who is involved. This office is a sacred
trust and I am determined to be worthy
of that trust.
Looking back at the history of this case,
two questions arise:
How could it have happened?
Who is to blame ?
Political commentators have correctly
observed that during my 27 years in poli-
tics I have always previously insisted on
running my own campaigns for office.
But 1972 presented a very different situ-
ation. In both domestic and foreign policy,
1972 was a year of crucially important
decisions, of intense negotiations, of vital
new directions, particularly in working
toward the goal which has been my over-
riding concern throughout my political
career-the goal of bringing peace to
America, peace to the world.
That is why I decided, as the 1972 cam-
paign approached, that the Presidency
should come first and politics second. To
the maximum extent possible, therefore, I
sought to delegate campaign operations,
to remove the day-to-day campaign deci-
sions from the President's office and from
the White House. I also, as you recall,
severely limited the number of my own
campaign appearances.
Who, then, is to blame for what hap-
pened in this case?
For specific criminal actions by specific
individuals, those who committed those
actions must, of course, bear the liability
and pay the penalty.
For the fact that alleged improper ac-
tions took place within the White House
or within my campaign organization, the
easiest course would be for me to blame
those to whom I delegated the responsibil-
ity to run the campaign. But that would be
a cowardly thing to do.
I will not place the blame on subordi-
nates on people whose zeal exceeded
their judgment and who may have done
wrong in a cause they deeply believed to
be right.
In any organization, the man at the
330
