Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
in the Middle East and Asia if the Con-
gress removes the influential tools which
have made stability possible.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT
Another matter of prime concern to me
is our commitment to a sound program of
bilateral and multilateral foreign aid.
Last spring I sent to the Congress reason-
able requests for our economic and mili-
tary assistance programs. These programs
represent a central element in America's
ability to work with her allies to maintain
peace and stability in the world. Unfortu-
nately, the Congress has not treated these
requests favorably.
The House has already cut about 25
percent from the military aid program
and the Senate has cut it by one-half. Not
only have extraordinary cuts been made
in the funding, but restrictive amendments
have been added in committee and others
may be suggested on the floor. I cannot
stand by while these crucial programs are
gutted in haste and reaction.
Current foreign aid programs are being
funded through a continuing resolution
which ends on September 30. This ap-
proach is unsatisfactory, especially in light
of demands resulting from North Viet-
namese truce violations in Cambodia. Yet
the Congress continues not only to pro-
vide smaller dollar amounts but also to
make unreasonable requests for access to
sensitive information and impose counter-
productive conditions on specific pro-
grams. Such demands are unacceptable;
they would badly compromise our ability
to maintain security around the world.
I intend to make every effort to increase
the funding for fiscal year 1974 security
assistance requirements. I shall also
strongly resist efforts by the Congress to
impose unreasonable demands upon nec-
essary foreign policy prerogatives of the
executive branch. A spirit of bipartisan
cooperation provided the steel which saw
America through the Cold War and then
through Vietnam. We must not jeopardize
the great potential for peaceful progress
in the post Vietnam era by losing that
strong bipartisan spirit.
To build a truly durable structure of
peace, our progress in reforming the
world's trade and monetary systems must
be accompanied by efforts to help the
poorer countries share more equitably in
the world's growing prosperity. To this
end, I ask the Congress to support our
fair share of contributions to the multi-
lateral development banks-both the pro-
posed contributions now pending in the
Congress and other proposals about which
I am currently consulting with the Con-
gress and which will be formally sub-
mitted in the near future. Our bilateral
assistance programs are also an essential
part of our effort to stimulate world de-
velopment and I urge the Congress to give
them full support.
All these efforts represent short-range
investments in peace and progress which
are of enormous long-range importance.
To try to save a few dollars on these pro-
grams today could cost us far more
tomorrow.
CONCLUSION
With the Congress, the Administration
and the people working together during
the coming weeks, we can achieve many
of the goals described in this message. And
we will work together most effectively if
we remember that our ultimate responsi-
bility is not to one political party, nor to
one philosophical position, nor even to
one branch of the Government. Our ulti-
785
