[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
prehensive peace plans which were
designed to frame a political process
as well as settle the military questions.
By August we offered our total with-
drawal in nine months; a political
process which included elections and
our pledge to neutrality and accept-
ance of the outcome; limitations on
military aid to South Vietnam pro-
viding there were limits on aid to
North Vietnam as well; non-align-
ment for South Vietnam and all of
Indochina; and reunification to be
worked out between North and South
Vietnam.
-On October 11, in response to North
Vietnamese comments, we conveyed
still another comprehensive plan to
Hanoi and proposed another secret
meeting in November to consider it.
They agreed to meet on Novem-
ber 20, but abruptly cancelled the
session just three days before, on No-
vember 17.
-On January 25, 1972, after waiting
in vain for more than three months
for the North Vietnamese to answer
our proposal to meet, we were com-
pelled to explain the situation to the
American people and try to elicit
Hanoi's reaction to our offers. We
revealed the scope of our private
diplomacy, and President Thieu and
I offered a new comprehensive plan
for peace. Once again we sought to
make the political process as free and
open to all parties as possible while
resolving the military conflict.
-Our proposal provided that within
six months of a settlement all U.S.
and allied forces would withdraw
from South Vietnam; all prisoners
throughout Indochina would be re-
leased; there would be a ceasefire
throughout the region; and a new
Presidential election would take place
in South Vietnam. In addition, Presi-
dent Thieu offered to resign one
month before the elections. We
spelled out these provisions and
others in considerable detail. We also
made clear, as we had proposed in
May 1971, that we were prepared to
settle only the military issues and to
leave political matters for later reso-
lution by the South Vietnamese.
January-October 1972. The North
Vietnamese response to our comprehen-
sive offer was to continue their massive
military buildup in South Vietnam and
to launch their Easter invasion. They
never replied to our negotiating proposal;
they refused to meet us privately; and
they repeated their same negotiating
demands publicly.
The North Vietnamese finally agreed to
meet again in Paris privately on May 2.
We made every effort to find a way to
end or scale down military conflict. We
proposed a variety of approaches: mutual
de-escalation; a de facto ceasefire; a
partial withdrawal of the invading forces;
an overall military settlement; or more
comprehensive solutions. All of our pro-
posals were rejected.
Accordingly, we had little choice but to
respond with the decisive measures of
May 8, 1972. At the same time we pro-
posed a fair settlement, one that would
prove eventually to be the framework for
peace: the cessation of all our military
activities and the withdrawal of all our
forces within the same period, and a cease-
fire. We told Hanoi that we would resume
private negotiations at any time.
The North Vietnamese eventually
decided to resume talks in Paris on July 19,
1972. As these discussions went
384
