[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
John Mitchell said that if you had ever
asked him at any time about the Water-
gate matter, he would have told you the
whole story, chapter and verse Was Mr.
Mitchell not speaking the truth when he
said that before the committee?
THE PRESIDENT. Now, Mr. Lisagor. I
am not going to question Mr. Mitchell's
veracity, and I will only say that through-
out I had confidence in Mr. Mitchell. Mr.
Mitchell, in a telephone call that I had
with him immediately after it occurred,
expressed great chagrin that he had not
run a tight enough shop and that some
of the boys, as he called them, got in-
volved in this kind of activity, which he
knew to be very, very embarrassing, apart
from its illegality, to the campaign.
Throughout. I would have expected Mr.
Mitchell to tell me in the event that he
was involved or that anybody else was.
He did not tell me. I don't blame him
for not telling me. He has given his rea-
sons for not telling me. I regret that he
did not, because he is exactly right. Had
he told me, I would have blown my stack,
just as I did at Ziegler the other day.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT's responsibiLITY
[8] Q. Mr. President, I wonder, sir,
how much personal blame, to what degree
of personal blame do you accept for the
climate in the White House, and at the
Re-Election Committee, for the abuses of
Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. I accept it all.
THE ELLSBERG CASE; MEETINGS WITH
JUDGE BYRNE
[9] Q. Mr. President, I want to state
this question with due respect to your
office, but also as directly as possible.
THE PRESIDENT. That would be un-
usual. Laughter]
Q. I would like to think not, sir. It
concerns
THE PRESIDENT. You are always re-
spectful. Mr. Rather Dan Rather, CBS
News! You know that.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. It con-
cerns the events surrounding Mr. Ehrlich-
man's contact and, on one occasion, your
own contact with the judge in the Pen-
tagon Papers case, Judge Byrne."
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. As I understand your own explana-
tion of events, and putting together your
statement with Mr. Ehrlichman's testi-
mony and what Judge Byrne has said,
what happened here is that sometime late
in March March 17, I believe you
said you first found out about the break-
in at the psychiatrist's office of Mr. Ells-
berg, that you asked to have that looked
into and that you later. I think in late
April, instructed Attorney General Klein-
dienst to inform the judge.
Now, my question is this: that, while
the Pentagon Papers trial was going on,
Mr. Ehrlichman secretly met once with
the judge in that case, you secretly met
another time the judge with Mr. Ehrlich-
man. Now, you are a lawyer, and given
the state of the situation and what you
knew, could you give us some reason why
the American people should not believe
that that was at least a subtle attempt to
bribe the judge in that case, and it gave
at least the appearance of a lack of moral
leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would say the
William M. Byrne, Jr, United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Central District of
California.
716
