[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
that with all of the criticism of détente,
that without détente, we might have had a
major conflict in the Middle East. With
détente, we avoided it.
OIL AND THE MIDDLE EAST
[9] Q. Mr. President, a question from
the electronic media, related to the Middle
East-
THE PRESIDENT [to Forrest J. Boyd,
Mutual Broadcasting System]. Radio.
Q. Radio, yes. I have heard that there
was a meeting at the State Department
this afternoon of major oil company
executives on the fuel shortage. Whether
or not you can confirm that, has this con-
frontation in the Middle East caused a
still more severe oil problem, and is there
any thinking now of gasoline rationing?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have con-
tingency plans for gasoline rationing and
so forth, which I hope never have to be
put into place.
But with regard to the oil shortage,
which you referred to, one of the major
factors which gave enormous urgency to
our efforts to settle this particular crisis
was the potential of an oil cutoff.
Let me say that I have also noted that
in the State Department-or from the
State Department-today a statement
raised a little difficulty in Europe to the
effect that our European friends hadn't
been as cooperative as they might have
been in attempting to help us work out
the Middle East settlement or at least the
settlement to the extent that we have
worked it out as of the resolution of
yesterday.
I can only say on that score that Eu-
rope, which gets 80 percent of its oil from
the Mideast, would have frozen to death
this winter unless there had been a settle-
ment, and Japan, of course, is in that
same position. The United States, of
course, gets only approximately 10 per-
cent of its oil from the Mideast.
What I am simply suggesting is this:
that with regard to the fuel shortage,
potentially, in the United States and in
the world, it is indispensable at this time
that we avoid any further Mideast crisis
so that the flow of oil to Europe, to Japan,
and to the United States can continue.
EXCHANGES WITH GENERAL SECRETARY
BREZHNEV
[10.] Q. Mr. President, against this
background of détente, Mr. Brezhnev's
note to you has been described as rough or
perhaps brutal by one Senator. Can you
characterize it for us and for history in
any way?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I could charac-
terize it, but, Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service], it wouldn't be in the national in-
terest to do so. My notes to him he might
characterize as being rather rough. How-
ever, I would rather-perhaps it would
be best to characterize it. Rather than say-
ing, Mr. Theis, that his note to me was
rough and brutal, I would say that it was
very firm, and it left very little to the
imagination as to what he intended.
And my response was also very firm and
left little to the imagination of how we
would react. And it is because he and I
know each other, and it is because we have
had this personal contact, that notes ex-
'Senator Henry M. Jackson made the char-
acterization earlier the same day.
902
