[311] Oct. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
rent posture could decline. A permanent
and substantial element of unpredictabil-
ity would be injected into the world's as-
sessment of American behavior, further
increasing the likelihood of miscalcula-
tion and war.
If this resolution had been in opera-
tion, America's effective response to a
variety of challenges in recent years would
have been vastly complicated or even
made impossible. We may well have been
unable to respond in the way we did dur-
ing the Berlin crisis of 1961, the Cuban
missile crisis of 1962, the Congo rescue
operation in 1964, and the Jordanian
crisis of 1970-to mention just a few ex-
amples. In addition, our recent actions to
bring about a peaceful settlement of the
hostilities in the Middle East would have
been seriously impaired if this resolution.
had been in force.
While all the specific consequences of
House Joint Resolution 542 cannot yet be
predicted, it is clear that it would under-
cut the ability of the United States to act
as an effective influence for peace. For
example, the provision automatically cut-
ting off certain authorities after 60 days
unless they are extended by the Congress
could work to prolong or intensify a
crisis. Until the Congress suspended the
deadline, there would be at least a chance
of United States withdrawal and an ad-
versary would be tempted therefore to
postpone serious negotiations until the 60
days were up. Only after the Congress
acted would there be a strong incentive
for an adversary to negotiate. In addi-
tion, the very existence of a deadline could
lead to an escalation of hostilities in order
to achieve certain objectives before the
60 days expired.
The measure would jeopardize our role
as a force for peace in other ways as well.
It would, for example, strike from the
President's hand a wide range of im-
portant peace-keeping tools by eliminating
his ability to exercise quiet diplomacy
backed by subtle shifts in our military de-
ployments. It would also cast into doubt
authorities which Presidents have used to
undertake certain humanitarian relief
missions in conflict areas, to protect fish-
ing boats from seizure, to deal with ship
or aircraft hijackings, and to respond to
threats of attack. Not the least of the ad-
verse consequences of this resolution
would be the prohibition contained in sec-
tion 8 against fulfilling our obligations un-
der the NATO treaty as ratified by the
Senate. Finally, since the bill is somewhat
vague as to when the 60 day rule would
apply, it could lead to extreme confusion
and dangerous disagreements concerning
the prerogatives of the two branches, seri-
ously damaging our ability to respond to
international crises.
FAILURE TO REQUIRE POSITIVE
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION
I am particularly disturbed by the fact
that certain of the President's constitu-
tional powers as Commander in Chief of
the Armed Forces would terminate auto-
matically under this resolution 60 days
after they were invoked. No overt Con-
gressional action would be required to cut
off these powers-they would disappear
automatically unless the Congress ex-
tended them. In effect, the Congress is
here attempting to increase its policy-
making role through a provision which
requires it to take absolutely no action at
all.
In my view, the proper way for the
Congress to make known its will on such
foreign policy questions is through a posi-
894
