Appendix B
May
15 The President directed the Secretaries of
Commerce and Labor to certify as eligible
to apply for adjustment assistance under
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 the Con-
solidated National Shoe Corp., of Norwood,
Mass., and its workers.
17 Mustafizur Rahman Siddiqi, Special Emis-
sary of the Prime Minister of Bangladesh,
called on the President at the White House
to present a letter to the President from the
Prime Minister.
17 The President met at the White House with
Mrs. Cleo A. Noel, Jr., and Mrs. G. Curtis
Moore, the widows of the two U.S. diplo-
mats who were slain by Arab terrorists in
The Sudan on March 2, 1973-
17 Chester Cornett, of Harrison, Ohio, called
on the President to present him with a
wooden rocking chair which Mr. Cornett
had made entirely by hand. He was ac-
companied by Representative Donald D.
Clancy of Ohio.
17 Mayor Ralph Perk of Cleveland, Ohio,
called on the President at the White House
to discuss issues relating to problems of
urban communities. He was accompanied
by Republican National Chairman George
Bush.
17 The White House announced that Henry A.
Kissinger would meet with French President
Georges Pompidou in Paris on May 18 to
discuss preparations for the May 31-June 1
meetings between President Pompidou and
President Nixon in Iceland.
18 The President met at the White House with
members of the Cabinet.
18 Phillip V. Sanchez, United States Ambas-
sador to Honduras, met with the President
at the White House.
18 Dr. Edmund C. Casey, president of the Na-
tional Medical Association, met with the
President at the White House. Dr. Casey
headed a delegation of NMA members to
the People's Republic of China in late 1972.
May
18 The President asked Apollo 17 astronauts
Capt. Eugene A. Cernan, USN, Capt. Ron-
ald E. Evans, USN, and Dr. Harrison H.
Schmitt to undertake a good will mission
to Senegal, Niger, Nigeria, Cameroon,
Pakistan, India, Singapore, Indonesia,
the Philippines, Micronesia, and Fiji. The
tour, which included rest stops in the Ca-
nary Islands, Ivory Coast, and Kenya,
began June 6 and ended July 1.
22 Republican National Chairman George H.
Bush, Senators Hugh Scott and Robert P.
Griffin, and Representatives Gerald R. Ford
and Leslie C. Arends met with the President
at the White House.
23 Mary T. Brooks, Director of the Mint,
called on the President at the White House
to present him with the first strike of a
medal commemorating his second term in
office.
23 The President received the American
Legion's 1970 Robert L. Hague Merchant
Marine Achievement Award.
23 Republican National Chairman George H.
Bush and Senator Bob Dole of Kansas,
former chairman, met with the President at
the White House.
23 The President designated four persons to
represent him during the inaugural cere-
monies for His Excellency, Dr. Hector J.
Campora as President of the Argentine Re-
public, May 23-27, 1973. They were: Sec-
retary of State William P. Rogers, head of
the delegation; and with the rank of Special
Ambassador, Ambassador John Davis
Lodge, Senator William B. Saxbe, and
Representative David E. Satterfield III.
23 The President attended a reception for
Republican leaders of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Blair House.
24 Henry A. Kissinger met with the President
at the White House to report on his meet-
ings in Paris with North Vietnamese rep-
resentative Le Duc Tho.
1074
