[100] Mar. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
some of our newspapers here, particularly
in the East, you will find there is very lit-
tle confidence in State and local govern-
ments. Believe me, you are the biggest
crooks and incompetents that were ever
in this room, if you were to read what
some of them said.
It depends though-there are plenty of
crooks and incompetents, they say, in the
Congress, or whatever the case might
be-it depends on what you happen to
be doing at that particular time.
Let me say I never served in a State
legislature Cap Weinberger has but I
have known many State legislators. They
are honest, decent men and women, try-
ing to do an honest and decent job. I know
that. We have confidence in you. We be-
lieve that you ought to have more respon-
sibility rather than less, and let me say
one other thing: When you make a mis-
take nationally, it is a beaut, because it
covers the whole country. Now, when you
make a mistake even in a State as big as
New York or California, let alone a State
like Nevada, or Wyoming, or Alaska, or
Hawaii, or Iowa for that matter, it can
still be very big, but it affects only that
particular State. And then we can see
whether or not in our trial and error sys-
tem we want to try it in other areas.
So, what I simply am saying here is,
first, we believe in State and local re-
sponsibility. We have confidence in State
legislatures and in State governments, and
we believe the way to raise not only the
quality, which all of you, of course, would
like to do, but also to raise the confidence
and the respect of the people in their
State and local governments, is to give
them not more money to spend, which you
are going to get and will continue to get,
whoever is going to be in Washington
here, but more decisions to make.
You just simply don't want to be the
errand boys or the people down the line
who will take the Federal grants and pass
them out, just not the channels of com-
munication, but you ought to and you
should have the responsibility and the
right to make decisions as to how the
sources of money that come from Wash-
ington-and we, of course, should collect
it, because we can collect it better at the
national level. That is one thing the Fed-
eral Government can do better than State
governments. [Laughter] We have ways to
get it that the State governments can't use.
But on the other hand, we feel that as
far as the decisions are concerned, you
ought to have the chance.
Just let me close that section of my re-
marks by saying very simply this: Have
your differences, and, I am sure, some of
you will have specific items in this budget
as to whether this program or that one or
the other one should be funded at certain
amounts. But make no mistake about the
fundamental, revolutionary recommenda-
tion we have made with regard to special
revenue sharing. It has to do with our
whole federal system and, as we approach
the 200th birthday of this country, which
comes in 1976, it seems to me that is a
pretty good time to go back to funda-
mental principles where those fundamen-
tal principles are still relevant to the prob-
lems we have today.
I believe that the more men and women
you can get in the process, making deci-
sions, not simply people down the line who
look to somebody up here in Washington
to make all of the decisions and they just
carry out the order-the more we can get
more people making the decisions, the
better it is going to be for this country.
That is what we believe. It is a matter of
philosophy; it is a profound belief. It is
242
