[233] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
This need for confidence is not con-
fined to Government officials. The law has
long recognized that there are kinds of
conversations that are entitled to be kept
confidential, even at the cost of doing
without critical evidence in a legal pro-
ceeding. This rule applies, for example,
to conversations between a lawyer and a
client, between a priest and a penitent,
and between a husband and wife. In each
case it is thought so important that the
parties be able to talk freely to each other
that for hundreds of years the law has
said these conversations are "privileged"
and that their disclosure cannot be com-
pelled in a court.
It is even more important that the
confidentiality of conversations between
a President and his advisers be protected.
This is no mere luxury, to be dispensed
with whenever a particular issue raises
sufficient uproar. It is absolutely essential
to the conduct of the Presidency, in this
and in all future Administrations.
If I were to make public these tapes,
containing as they do blunt and candid
remarks on many different subjects, the
confidentiality of the Office of the Presi-
dent would always be suspect from now
on. It would make no difference whether
it was to serve the interests of a court, of
a Senate committee, or the President him-
self—the same damage would be done to
the principle, and that damage would be
irreparable.
Persons talking with the President
would never again be sure that recordings
or notes of what they said would not
suddenly be made public. No one would
want to advance tentative ideas that might
later seem unsound. No diplomat would
want to speak candidly in those sensitive
negotiations which could bring peace or
avoid war. No Senator or Congressman
would want to talk frankly about the
Congressional horsetrading that might
get a vital bill passed. No one would want
to speak bluntly about public figures here
and abroad.
That is why I shall continue to oppose
efforts which would set a precedent that
would cripple all future Presidents by
inhibiting conversations between them
and those they look to for advice
This principle of confidentiality of
Presidential conversations is at stake in
the question of these tapes. I must and I
shall oppose any efforts to destroy this
principle, which is so vital to the conduct
of this great office.
Turning now to the basic issues which
have been raised by Watergate, I recog-
nize that merely answering the charges
that have been made against the President
is not enough. The word "Watergate"
has come to represent a much broader
set of concerns.
To most of us, Watergate has come to
mean not just a burglary and bugging of
party headquarters but a whole series of
acts that either represent or appear to
represent an abuse of trust. It has come
to stand for excessive partisanship, for
"enemy lists," for efforts to use the great
institutions of Government for partisan
political purposes.
For many Americans, the term "Water-
gate" also has come to include a number
of national security matters that have
been brought into the investigation, such
as those involved in my efforts to stop
massive leaks of vital diplomatic and mili-
tary secrets, and to counter the wave of
bombings and burnings and other violent
assaults of just a few years ago.
Let me speak first of the political
abuses.
I know from long experience that a
694
