Richard Nixon, 1973
June 15 [175]
Houses and the Presidency-I welcome
the new balance that this center can bring
to our understanding of American gov-
ernment.
When you study Everett Dirksen's life,
it teaches us many things. In the first
place, his career symbolizes the impor-
tance of a constructive, cooperative rela-
tionship between the Congress and the
President, a relationship of mutual respect
and mutual accommodation.
Some of the great moments in the re-
cent history of this country came when
Everett Dirksen rose in the Senate on be-
half of such a relationship. And whether
the President's name was Roosevelt or
Truman, Eisenhower or Kennedy, John-
son or Nixon, whether he was a Democrat
or Republican, that, to him, was not the
important thing. The important thing, as
Everett Dirksen saw it, was that progress
was better than deadlock and that
neither the Congress nor the executive
could travel very far without the other.
Too often we think that a strong execu-
tive must mean a weak legislature, and
that a strong legislature must mean a weak
executive. Everett Dirksen knew better
than that. He believed in both a strong
Congress and a strong President. And he
knew the risk if they became rivals. But
he also knew the potential if they became
partners.
Both that risk and that potential still
exist today on one crucial issue after an-
other. Now, more than ever, we need to
foster between the executive and the Con-
gress a spirit of responsible partnership.
And responsible partnership must rest on
the foundation of mutual respect between
the executive and the legislature. This
doesn't mean that the two branches must
soft pedal their disagreements. We have
had strong differences in the past; we will
continue to have strong differences in
the future.
We have fought hard for our positions.
We will continue to fight for them. In
fact, we have a duty to fight vigorously for
those things we believe in; it is our consti-
tutional responsibility. But as we battle for
our views, let us remember that we can
accommodate our positions without aban-
doning our principles.
Responsible partnership means recog-
nizing that neither party can have his
way all the time. It means developing a
spirit of give and take-with both sides
doing some giving and both sides doing
some taking.
If we proceed in that spirit, then we will
not regard our system of checks and bal-
ances as a source of frustration, but as an
opportunity for consultation. Then the
interaction between branches of the Gov-
ernment will not be seen as a process
which dilutes and weakens policy, but as
one that improves and strengthens it.
Senator Dirksen's life teaches us a great
deal in another very important way. His
life can help every one of us renew our
pride in our country. Everett Dirksen be-
lieved in America. He often said that the
only debt that was greater than the na-
tional debt was the debt that he owed
to his country. And every one of us should
agree with Everett Dirksen on that point.
He served this Nation through a time
of remarkable challenge-through four
wars, a great depression, through cold
war tensions and domestic upheavals—
but whatever the crisis, his faith in
America never wavered a bit.
At a time when we are tempted to dwell
on our Nation's problems, I believe Sen-
ator Dirksen would remind us of our Na-
tion's strength, for he knew that unless
we appreciate what is right about
589
