Richard Nixon, 1973
May 1 [135]
When I was inaugurated for a second
time this past January 20, I gave each
member of my Cabinet and each member
of my senior White House Staff a special
4-year calendar, with each day marked
to show the number of days remaining to
the Administration. In the inscription on
each calendar, I wrote these words: "The
Presidential term which begins today con-
sists of 1,461 days—no more, no less. Each
can be a day of strengthening and renewal
for America; each can add depth and
dimension to the American experience. If
we strive together, if we make the most of
the challenge and the opportunity that
these days offer us, they can stand out as
great days for America, and great mo-
ments in the history of the world."
I looked at my own calendar this
morning up at Camp David as I was
working on this speech. It showed exactly
1,361 days remaining in my term. I want
these to be the best days in America's his-
tory, because I love America. I deeply be-
lieve that America is the hope of the
world. And I know that in the quality and
wisdom of the leadership America gives
lies the only hope for millions of people all
over the world that they can live their
lives in peace and freedom. We must be
worthy of that hope, in every sense of the
word. Tonight, I ask for your prayers to
help me in everything that I do through-
out the days of my Presidency to be
worthy of their hopes and of yours.
God bless America and God bless each
and every one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. His ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television.
135 Special Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation for Funding of Foreign
Assistance Programs in Fiscal Year 1974.
May 1, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
One of the most important building
blocks in erecting a durable structure of
peace is the foreign assistance program of
the United States. Today, in submitting
my proposed Foreign Assistance Act of
1973, I urge the Congress to act on it with
a special sense of urgency so that we may
continue the important progress we have
made toward achieving peace during the
past year.
Perhaps the most persuasive reason for
a strong foreign assistance program was set
forth by President Roosevelt in the days
shortly before World War II, when Brit-
ain needed help. "Suppose my neighbor's
home catches fire," he said, “and I have
a length of garden hose four or five hun-
dred feet away. If he can take my garden
hose and connect it up with his hydrant,
I may help him to put out his fire."
Implicit in Roosevelt's analogy was the
mutual benefit of giving assistance, for if
the fire in question spread, both neigh-
bors would be in danger. Those clear and
simple assumptions underlaid our wartime
assistance to our European allies and our
post-war policy toward the nations of the
Western Hemisphere.
Today, we see the wisdom of this policy
333
