[4] Jan. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States on the Trade Agreements Pro-
gram- 1971."
NOTE: The 38-page report is entitled "Six-
teenth Annual Report of the President of the
5
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Colombian Treaty Concerning Quita Sueño, Roncador,
and Serrana. January 9, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's ad-
vice and consent to ratification the
Treaty between the Government of the
United States of America and the Gov-
ernment of the Republic of Colombia,
concerning the Status of Quita Sueño,
Roncador and Serrana, signed at Bogotá
on September 8, 1972.
Under the Treaty the United States
renounces all claims to sovereignty over
three uninhabited outcroppings of coral
reefs in the Caribbean-Quita Sueño,
Roncador and Serrana.
The Treaty assures that the fishing
rights of each Government's nationals and
vessels in the waters adjacent to Quita
Sueño will be free from interference by
the other Government or by its nationals
or vessels. Colombia also agrees to guaran-
tee to United States nationals and vessels
a continuation of fishing in the waters ad-
jacent to Roncador and Serrana, subject
to reasonable conservation measures ap-
plied on a nondiscriminatory basis.
The express purpose of the Treaty is to
settle long-standing questions concerning
the status of the three reefs, which are
located between 380 and 460 miles from
the Colombian mainland. In the late
nineteenth century, the United States
claimed them under the terms of the
Guano Islands Act of 1856, following
their discovery by an American citizen in
1869. In 1890 Colombia protested the
extraction by United States nationals of
guano from these reefs, claiming that
Colombia had inherited sovereign title to
them from Spain. In 1928 the United
States and Colombia recognized the ex-
istence of their dual claims and agreed to
maintain a status quo situation which has
existed to the present day.
Negotiation of the Treaty signed last
September was a response to Colombia's
desire to enhance its claim to sovereignty.
The primary interest of the United States
in the area is to protect the right of Ameri-
can nationals and vessels to continue fish-
ing there. Another United States inter-
est is the continued maintenance of navi-
gational aids on the three reefs.
The Treaty meets the practical interests
of both countries. It will satisfy the long-
standing desire of the Colombian people
that their claim to sovereignty not be en-
cumbered by a conflicting claim by the
United States. It will protect United
States interests in maintaining fishing
rights in the area and, through a related
arrangement, will provide for mainte-
nance by Colombia of the navigational
aids there in accordance with interna-
tional regulations. The enclosed report of
the Department of State more fully de-
scribes the provisions of the Treaty and its
8
