Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [127]
was disagreement or a lack of friendship be-
tween Europe or Italy and the United States.
And this should inspire us; this should serve
us as inspiration for the future and for our
political action.
You invited here tonight, Mr. President, some
representatives of those people who do not
lose their Italian characteristics, although be-
ing very deeply American, and who transmit
to their children those which are the best
characteristics, which make the healthiest and
best Italians, that is to say, the sentiment of
family and of work.
These characteristics of Italo-Americans in-
sure forever a very deep friendship between
Italians and Americans, and I might quote as
an example of this, the fact that when Presi-
dent Lincoln died, the citizens of Rome sent
to the United States a stone which had been
taken from the tomb of Servius Tullius, one
of the ancient Roman kings, who was the first
king who liberated the poorer classes of Rome
and who gave some hope to the humble layers
of the population.
So in the past, the United States was a kind
of road to expectations for these Italians. Some
of them had a very brilliant career and life in
the United States. Some others were less suc-
cessful. But we wish to unite all of them and
to remember here their joys, their successes,
their victories, or their failures.
There are so many Italians in every State
of the United States that this morning at lunch
when I met with Mr. Molisani¹ and Astronaut
Collins, I told him, "At least you are not Ital-
1 Howard Molisani was chairman of the
Italian American Labor Council.
ian." And he told me, "No, I am not Italian
but I was born in Rome."
Mr. President, I am not going to talk poli-
tics. The political orientations which inspire
you and which are based on a very moral con-
ception of public life, however, are something
for which all free men and the entire world
should be grateful to you. And in the difficult
road which leads us to peace and to a better
standard of living for all the humble people
in all nations, your leadership is certainly a
decisive factor in order to achieve victories in
this very hard struggle.
I would like to say two small things. First of
all, I would like to present my respects to
Mrs. Luce, who was the Ambassador of your
country in Rome. She was very much re-
spected and loved, and she was very good at
understanding our country, and she had much
affection for Italy. And I must say, this affec-
tion is still today very largely reciprocated.
Then, Mr. President, I am very grateful to
you and to Mrs. Nixon for inviting Frank
Sinatra. I am going to be able to listen to him
singing here. This is something which will give
much prestige to me with my children.
And lastly, let me use one symbol which was
offered to me. The prophet Isaiah said you
should change your swords into plows. Now
Secretary Rogers changed swords into harps,
since at lunch I saw an Army sergeant playing
the harp. President Nixon changes swords into
violins and cellos, because we saw military men
playing violins and cellos, so let me hold this
as a symbol for a better future in which we will
have better men and peace.
And in this spirit, Mr. President, may I raise
my glass to your health, to the well being of
Mrs. Nixon, and to the greatness and prosperity
of the American people.
127 Remarks on Transmitting
Congress on Energy Policy.
AMERICA's energy demands have grown
so rapidly that they now outstrip our en-
ergy supplies. As a result, we face the pos-
sibility of temporary fuel shortages and
some increases in fuel prices in America.
a Special Message to the
April 18, 1973
This is a serious challenge, but we have
the ability to meet it. If our energy re-
sources are properly developed, they can
fulfill our energy requirement for cen-
turies to come.
301
