Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
The issue for the United States, there-
fore, is not the desirability of an Arab-
Israeli settlement, but how it can be
achieved. The issue is not whether the
United States will be involved in the ef-
fort to achieve it, but how the United
States can be involved usefully and effec-
tively.
The Last Four Years. Over the last four
years, the United States has taken a series
of initiatives and explored a variety of
approaches to promoting a negotiating
process. The effort has resulted in restora-
tion of the ceasefire along the Suez Canal.
It has also provided sharp definition of the
issues and basic negotiating positions of
the parties and a measure of realism on all
sides. However, we have not succeeded in
establishing a negotiating process between
the parties or in achieving any substantive
agreement concrete enough to break the
impasse.
In 1969, starting from Resolution 242,
four permanent members of the Security
Council, and the United States and So-
viet Union in particular, began to discuss
a framework for an Arab-Israeli settle-
ment in order to explore how the outside
powers might usefully relate to the proc-
ess of settlement. Their approaches dif-
fered, but the discussions illuminated the
issues that divided them. By late 1969 and
early 1970, significant further progress
seemed unlikely for the time being.
In the summer of 1970, with the Four
Power discussions stalemated and the
military conflict along the Suez Canal
escalating sharply with the active par-
ticipation of Soviet air and air defense
units, the United States launched a major
initiative to reestablish the ceasefire and
to start negotiations. The firing stopped on
August 7, but the start of negotiations was
delayed by the violation in Egypt of a re-
lated military standstill agreement. A
month later the authority of the Govern-
ment of Jordan was challenged by the
Palestinian guerrillas and an invasion
from Syria. The challenge was put down,
and the return of stability enhanced the
ability of the Jordanian government to
address the question of peace.
Early in 1971, Ambassador Jarring, the
special representative of the UN Secretary
General, began discussions with Israel and
Egypt to try to promote agreement be-
tween the parties in accordance with his
mandate under Resolution 242. When this
effort lost momentum by the end of Febru-
ary 1971, attention shifted to the possibil-
ity of a step-by-step approach to peace,
beginning with a limited pullback of
Israeli troops from the Suez Canal and
the opening of the Canal. At the request
of Egypt and Israel, Secretary Rogers ex-
plored this approach. Talks to this end,
which occupied most of the summer and
fall, tried to grapple with these basic is-
sues: the relationship of such an interim
agreement to an overall peace agreement;
the distance of the limited Israeli with-
drawal; the nature of the Egyptian pres-
ence in the evacuated territory; the timing
of Israel's use of the Canal; and the dura-
tion of the ceasefire. In late 1971 and early
1972, the United States sought, again
without success, to initiate indirect nego-
tiations under its aegis between Egypt and
Israel on an interim agreement.
In 1972, attention again focused on the
relationship of the United States and the
Soviet Union to the Middle East problem.
At the Moscow Summit in May both sides
reviewed their positions and reaffirmed
their readiness to play a part in bringing
about a settlement based on Resolution
242. The United States emphasized that a
genuine negotiating process between the
31-870 - 75
- 32
447
