Appendix B
April
16 Speaker of the House Carl Albert break-
fasted with the President to discuss various
legislative matters before the Congress.
16 John Norris, chairman, and Robert Hitch-
ins, general manager, Alcoholics Anony-
mous, called on the President at the White
House.
16 The President greeted Roy Hickman, presi-
dent of Rotary International, in the Oval
Office at the White House.
18 The President met with bipartisan Con-
gressional leaders in the Roosevelt Room
at the White House to discuss his request
for most favored nation legislation for the
Soviet Union and recent communications
on the emigration of Soviet Jews.
18 The President met with Rainer Barzel,
chairman of the Christian Democratic
Union of West Germany.
18 The President greeted Lorin J. Badskey,
president of Kiwanis International, in the
Oval Office at the White House.
19 The President met with leaders of the
Jewish community to discuss recent devel-
opments with regard to the emigration of
Soviet Jews.
20 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House.
25 The White House announced that at 10
a.m., Paris time, on April 27, 1973, Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam Nguyen Co
Thach and U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary
of State William Sullivan would meet in
Paris to prepare a review of the implementa-
tion of the Paris agreement and of appro-
priate measures to bring about the strict
implementation of the agreement.
28 The President designated Mrs. Anna Chen-
nault, of Washington, D.C., as his Special
Representative to the Philippine Aviation
Week celebration held at Manila and other
Philippine cities from April 29 to May 5,
1973-
May
1 Ambassadors Joseph Ndabaniwe of Burundi
and Berndt von Staden of the Federal Re-
public of Germany presented their creden-
tials to the President in ceremonies in the
Oval Office at the White House.
1 The President met at the White House with
members of the Cabinet.
2 The President met at the White House with
Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, George P.
Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury; Arthur F.
Burns, Chairman of the Federal Reserve;
Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget; Herbert Stein, Chair-
man of the Council of Economic Advisers;
and John T. Dunlop, Director of the Cost
of Living Council.
2 The Labor-Management Advisory Commit-
tee to the Cost of Living Council met with
the President at the White House.
3 Ambassador David K. E. Bruce met with
the President at the White House prior to
assuming his post as Chief of the U.S. Liai-
son Office in Peking.
3 David Packard, former Deputy Secretary
of Defense, met with the President at the
White House.
3 Senator Bill Brock of Tennessee called on
the President at the White House to present
letters of appreciation from elementary
school students from Bethel Springs, Tenn.
3 The President greeted William Sterrett,
winner of the 1972 President's Cup Regatta.
He was accompanied by Representative
Thomas S. Foley of Washington.
3 Representative Samuel L. Devine of Ohio
met with the President to present to him
the Captain Eddie Rickenbacker Ameri-
canism Award.
3 Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona met
with the President at the White House. The
President asked Senator Goldwater to serve
as his Personal Representative at the 1973
Paris Air Show held May 24-June 3, 1973-
1072
