Richard Nixon, 1973
May 22 [162]
and others-in which the utmost degree
of confidentiality was vital, it posed a
threat so grave as to require extraordinary
actions.
Therefore during the week following
the Pentagon Papers publication, I ap-
proved the creation of a Special Investi-
gations Unit within the White House-
which later came to be known as the
"plumbers." This was a small group at the
White House whose principal purpose
was to stop security leaks and to investi-
gate other sensitive security matters. I
looked to John Ehrlichman for the super-
vision of this group.
Egil Krogh, Mr. Ehrlichman's assist-
ant, was put in charge. David Young was
added to this unit, as were E. Howard
Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy.
The unit operated under extremely
tight security rules. Its existence and func-
tions were known only to a very few per-
sons at the White House. These included
Messrs. Haldeman, Ehrlichman, and
Dean.
At about the time the unit was created,
Daniel Ellsberg was identified as the per-
son who had given the Pentagon Papers
to the New York Times. I told Mr.
Krogh that as a matter of first priority,
the unit should find out all it could about
Mr. Ellsberg's associates and his motives.
Because of the extreme gravity of the
situation, and not then knowing what ad-
ditional national secrets Mr. Ellsberg
might disclose, I did impress upon Mr.
Krogh the vital importance to the na-
tional security of his assignment. I did not
authorize and had no knowledge of any
illegal means to be used to achieve this
goal.
However, because of the emphasis I
put on the crucial importance of protect-
ing the national security, I can under-
stand how highly motivated individuals
could have felt justified in engaging in
specific activities that I would have dis-
approved had they been brought to my
attention.
Consequently, as President, I must and
do assume responsibility for such actions
despite the fact that I at no time ap-
proved or had knowledge of them.
I also assigned the unit a number of
other investigatory matters, dealing in
part with compiling an accurate record
of events related to the Vietnam war, on
which the Government's records were in-
adequate (many previous records having
been removed with the change of ad-
ministrations) and which bore directly
on the negotiations then in progress. Ad-
ditional assignments included tracing
down other national security leaks, in-
cluding one that seriously compromised
the U.S. negotiating position in the SALT
talks.
The work of the unit tapered off around
the end of 1971. The nature of its work
was such that it involved matters that,
from a national security standpoint, were
highly sensitive then and remain so today.
These intelligence activities had no
connection with the break-in of the Demo-
cratic headquarters, or the aftermath.
I considered it my responsibility to see
that the Watergate investigation did not
impinge adversely upon the national se-
curity area. For example, on April 18,
1973, when I learned that Mr. Hunt, a
former member of the Special Investiga-
tions Unit at the White House, was to
be questioned by the U.S. Attorney, I
directed Assistant Attorney General Peter-
sen to pursue every issue involving Water-
gate but to confine his investigation to
Watergate and related matters and to stay
out of national security matters. Subse-
551
