Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
page. [Laughter] And also, be sure
Povich 3 isn't paid too much for what I
just said then.
Q. Sir, Edward Miller [Call-Chronicle
Newspapers], Allentown, Pennsylvania.
Was your brother aware before, or after,
the fact of the surveillance?
THE PRESIDENT. Before or after the
fact?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. He was aware during
the fact, because he asked about it, and
he was told about it. And he approved of
it. He knew why it was done.
Q. Excuse me. Does it make any sense
to conduct surveillance when somebody
knows about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Does it make any
sense? Certainly. The surveillance in-
volved not what he was doing; the surveil-
lance involved what others who were try-
ing to get him, perhaps, to use improper
influence, and so forth, might be doing,
and particularly anybody who might be in
a foreign country.
you to know that—well, since you haven't
raised some of these subjects, I will raise
them myself: ITT; how did we raise the
price of milk-I wish somebody would
ask me that one-and who else wanted
it raised; what about the situation with
regard to the $1 million secret stock port-
folio that you have; a few of those things.
I think all of those things need to be an-
swered and answered effectively, and I
think the best way to answer them—
twofold:
One, obviously through the medium of
a televised conference like this; but two,
through sending to the editors of the Na-
tion's newspapers, all 10,000 of them, the
facts. I trust that you will use them. And
if you don't believe them, I don't mean-
what I mean, I am not suggesting that you
wouldn't believe them-but if you feel
you need more information, write to me
and I will give it to you. I want the facts
out, because the facts will prove that the
President is telling the truth.
COMMUNICATION OF THE FACTS
[13.] Q. Is some of this a full story that
you say you can't say now, today, because
of national security? Have you told that
to Congressmen or anyone else? Will this
story come out in the next few weeks, as
you present more of the facts?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, as a matter of
fact, I should tell all of the editors-and
I don't want to leave any implication that
you have not tried to publish as much as
you could, you have just got so much
room in your newspapers, but I do want
* Shirley Povich was a sportswriter and
columnist for the Washington Post.
SHIELD LAW FOR REPORTERS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, John Finnegan,
St. Paul Dispatch-Pioneer Press. I know
the Watergate situation has raised ques-
tions of executive privilege, and a recent
Gallup poll indicated that 62 percent of
the American people will favor a confi-
dential news source law if adopted by
Congress. There is a two-tiered law now
before the Judiciary Committee which
would provide an absolute privilege in
case of investigative or grand jury hear-
ings, and a qualified shield in case of a
civil or criminal case.
If such a law were passed, would you
sign it or veto it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you are talking
957
