[136] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
means and that is what this visit means,
because as the Chancellor and I, in our
long discussions today, which will con-
tinue tomorrow, agreed, we have domestic
problems that we will wrestle with, prob-
lems of inflation and the economy and
others, but his goal and mine, above
everything else, is to build a world in
which our children, our children's chil-
dren, can grow up in peace.
And the key to that peaceful world, if
there is a key, more than anyplace else in
the world, is for the strong, resilient, able
people that he represents, and the strong,
able, dedicated people that I am proud to
represent for us to work together.
I can assure you—this company and all
the American people tonight-that the
Chancellor of the Federal Republic and
the President of the United States have as
their goal for the year 1976, doing every-
thing that we can to build a new structure
of peace, not just in Europe, not just in
the Atlantic community, but in the Mid-
east, all over the world. And these two
great peoples-the German people, the
American people-we can, we will do it
together.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is in that spirit
that I know that all of you proudly will
raise your glasses to the Chancellor, Willy
Brandt.
To Willy Brandt, Chancellor Brandt.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Item 138.
Chancellor Brandt responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Excellencies, ladies
and gentlemen:
I thank you, Mr. President, for the cordial
welcome you have extended to me and my
delegation. We consider the hospitality shown
to us here tonight, shown to us in these days,
anything but an act of routine, because we
know that you, Mr. President, had to settle, in
addition to receiving us here in Washington,
problems of a domestic nature, as we all have
to deal with from time to time.
By the way, the story about soldiers playing
violins was the President's and not mine.
[Laughter]
Last year, you, Mr. President, were given
an impressive confirmation by your fellow
countrymen and you were able to exert par-
ticularly strong influence on international
affairs.
In the meantime, it may be said that the
cease-fire in Vietnam has brought the world
nearer to peace. We also share the joy over
the return of the prisoners of war, and we join
you in the hope that in the tormented coun-
tries of Southeast Asia, arms will at long last
become silent.
At the beginning of this year, Mr. President,
you had thorough talks here with our British
friend, Edward Heath, and only 2 weeks ago,
our Italian partner, Signor Andreotti, was given
a cordial reception in this house. And not very
long from now you will be meeting President
Pompidou. None of us meets you any longer
solely as the representative of his own country
but at the same time already, to a certain
degree, as a representative of the European
Community as well.
So, I, too, am here not as the spokesman of
Europe, but definitely as a spokesman for
Europe.
I have spoken about a new feeling of Euro-
pean impatience among our nations, but I
think I can put this more affectionately in the
words of the first President of the United
States, George Washington, who said, "We
have the surprising luck to discover that apples
will make pies."
Seriously speaking, we do have the right al-
ready today to speak of the personality of
Europe in about the same way that General
de Gaulle spoke of the personality of nations.
The declared aim on this and on the other
side of the Atlantic has been and, as I am
confident, is equal partnership. We realize that
this requires Europe to assume a larger amount
of responsibility as regards both regional self-
responsibility and the share in world respon-
sibility.
New problems have come to confront us,
338
