Richard Nixon, 1973
June 25 [185]
The President and the General Secre-
tary, in appraising this Agreement, believe
that it constitutes a historical landmark
in Soviet-American relations and sub-
stantially strengthens the foundations of
international security as a whole. The
United States and the Soviet Union state
their readiness to consider additional
ways of strengthening peace and remov-
ing forever the danger of war, and par-
ticularly nuclear war.
In the course of the meetings, intensive
discussions were held on questions of
strategic arms limitation. In this connec-
tion both Sides emphasized the funda-
mental importance of the Treaty on the
Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Sys-
tems and the Interim Agreement on Cer-
tain Measures with Respect to the Limi-
tation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed
between the USA and the USSR in May
1972 which, for the first time in history,
place actual limits on the most modern
and most formidable types of armaments.
Having exchanged views on the prog-
ress in the implementation of these agree-
ments, both Sides reaffirmed their
intention to carry them out and their
readiness to move ahead jointly toward an
agreement on the further limitation of
strategic arms.
Both Sides noted that progress has been
made in the negotiations that resumed in
November 1972, and that the prospects
for reaching a permanent agreement on
more complete measures limiting strategic
offensive armaments are favorable.
Both Sides agreed that the progress
made in the limitation of strategic arma-
ments is an exceedingly important con-
tribution to the strengthening of US-
Soviet relations and to world peace.
On the basis of their discussions, the
President and the General Secretary
signed on June 21, 1973, Basic Principles
of Negotiations on the Further Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms. The text has
been published separately.2
The USA and the USSR attach great
importance to joining with all States in
the cause of strengthening peace, reduc-
ing the burden of armaments, and reach-
ing agreements on arms limitation and
disarmament measures.
Considering the important role which
an effective international agreement with
respect to chemical weapons would play,
the two Sides agreed to continue their
efforts to conclude such an agreement in
cooperation with other countries.
The two Sides agree to make every
effort to facilitate the work of the Com-
mittee on Disarmament which has been
meeting in Geneva. They will actively
participate in negotiations aimed at work-
ing out new measures to curb and end the
arms race. They reaffirm that the ulti-
mate objective is general and complete
disarmament, including nuclear disarma-
ment, under strict international control. A
world disarmament conference could play
a role in this process at an appropriate
time.
2 The text of the document is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 812). On June 21, 1973, the White
House released a fact sheet and the transcript
of a news briefing on the document by Henry A.
Kissinger, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs. The news briefing is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 813).
613
