Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 28 [132]
$468 million in supplemental funds for
this program-as this Administration re-
quested earlier-enables us to continue
this assistance at the higher rates.
House Joint Resolution 496 also pro-
vides funds to meet one other important
request which this Administration has sub-
mitted to the Congress: funding of some
$26 million for the Civil Aeronautics
Board so that necessary payments may be
made to local service air carriers.
Unfortunately, the Congress has used
this bill as a vehicle for other provisions
which could impede the accomplishment
of significant reforms in the student as-
sistance programs of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. My
budget proposed $622 million to fund a
new program for basic educational oppor-
tunity grants. Such grants which would
be made directly to needy students ac-
cording to need, in contrast to the current
method-an outmoded, inequitable one,
I think of channeling student assistance
funds to schools through State formula
grants. In enacting House Joint Resolu-
tion 496, the Congress has appropriated
the same total amount which I requested
but has diverted $500 million to continue
financing the present forms of assistance.
The Congress, however, has begun to
clear the way for significant educational
reform, since the bill does provide $122
million to begin the new grants program.
This amount is too small to set up a broad
assistance effort but it could provide a
useful pilot program and a reformed
approach to student assistance-provided
that participation is limited to first-year,
full-time students. Legislation which
would permit such a pilot program is now
before the Congress in the form of House
Joint Resolution 393. The Senate has
already passed this resolution; I urge the
House to take similar action immediately
upon its return.
In order to expand the basic grant pro-
gram so that improved assistance can be
provided to all post-secondary students, a
crippling provision in present law must
be repealed. That provision required that
the outmoded programs be financed at
levels which prohibit significant funding
of the new program. I urge this reform
through the enactment of H.R. 6735.
The bill I have signed also provides
funds for federally impacted school dis-
tricts. While the levels of funding exceed
my recommendations by $85 million, the
way in which the money is provided rec-
ognizes the principle I set forth originally:
Impact aid should be targeted to those
school districts which bear the heaviest
burdens as a result of Federal activities.
I am anxious to eliminate payments to
districts for children whose parents work
for the Federal Government but live in
the local community and pay full prop-
erty, sales, and other taxes. This bill does
not eliminate those payments to the ex-
tent that I would like, but it does rep-
resent a reasonable compromise, and it
does take us a long step toward the sweep-
ing reforms that I support.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 496, approved
April 26, 1973, is Public Law 93-25 (87 Stat.
25).
325
