[37] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
rived at Clark Field there would be no
officials there to welcome them, not be-
cause we don't want to welcome them,
but because I think after what they have
been through they deserve some time to
themselves. If they want officials there,
they can have them, but I don't think
VIP's should go in and try to exploit
them. I hope, too, the members of the
press will respect that for a while. They
will be probably very happy to talk to
members of the press after a while. But I
was thinking of Alvarez who has been
away 8½ years with no communications.
Let's give him some time by himself, and
all the others.
Of course, I am thinking of the ones
who are ill. There are some, of course, who
are wounded and ill. They will stay in a
hospital, if necessary, at Clark Field. So
I would say let's let them get back home.
Let's let them see their families again.
and then if they want to see anybody, the
Secretary of Defense or the President, we
will be available. But it is their choice and
not ours, and I think all Americans would
hope that they would have the kind of
reception, when they return, that they
want, and not the one that we want.
I know that many towns are planning
to receive them, but let it come in a way
which will not infringe upon these few
moments of privacy of getting acquainted
again.
We all remember, all of us who were
overseas in World War II--I was just
talking to the chaplain about that--I
remember when I was away, I was only
overseas less than a year and a half. When
Lt. Comdr. Everett Alvarez, Jr., USN, of
Santa Clara, Calif.
you got back to see your wife for the first
time after a year and a half, you don't
want a lot of cameras, you don't want a
VIP there, you just want to see your wife.
And I can imagine how some of these peo-
ple, with their wives, their children,
mothers, and fathers-so let's respect
that.
Q. Are the talks going well with Dr.
Kissinger?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me just say that
we have an agreement with the other side
here, as we have had previously, not to
comment on the subjects of talks. I will
only say that they are going forward on
schedule and that they are serious talks,
and that we expect them to continue to
be serious, and we hope and expect that
they will be constructive. But beyond that.
we will not comment either on the sub-
stance of the talks or, of course, will not
characterize them.
They are serious, and we hope and be-
lieve they will be constructive. When he
returns, we will be able to characterize
them a little more.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m.
outside the Palisades United Methodist Church,
Capistrano Beach, Calif., after attending serv-
ices there.
On February 12, 1973, the President received
a telephone call from Col. Robinson Risner,
USAF, who had just arrived at Clark Air Force
Base in the Philippines as a member of the
first group of prisoners of war returning from
Southeast Asia. On behalf of the former prison-
ers, Colonel Risner expressed their desire to
thank the President in person for ending the
war and obtaining their release. The President
thanked the men for their sacrifice and said he
would be pleased to meet with them at any
time after their reunions with their families.
86
