Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 25 [339]
lighting except that which identifies
places of business.
In the meantime, we are already plan-
ning right here at the White House to
curtail such lighting that we would nor-
mally have at Christmastime, and I am
asking that all of you act now on a volun-
tary basis to reduce or eliminate unneces-
sary lighting in your homes.
As just one example of the impact
which such an initiative can have, the
energy consumed by ornamental gaslights
alone in this country is equivalent to
35,000 barrels per day of oil, and that is
enough fuel to heat 175,000 homes.
Finally, I want to report to you tonight
that we have now developed final plans
for allocating reduced quantities of heat-
ing oil this winter, and all of you know
how very important heating oil is, par-
ticularly in the wintertime.
These plans, to be published Tuesday,
will call for an average reduction of 10
percent of heating oil for industrial use,
15 percent for home use, and 25 percent
for commercial use.
The reductions for homeowners alone
will result in a savings of some 315,000
barrels of heating oil a day, which is
enough to heat over 12 million homes
every day. For the average American
family, as I indicated 3 weeks ago, this
cutback in heating oil does not mean
severe discomfort for anyone, but it will
mean that everyone should lower the
thermostat as it is right here in this of-
fice now, and throughout the White
House, and throughout every Federal in-
stallation-you should lower the ther-
mostat by 6 degrees below its normal
setting so that we can achieve a national
daytime average of 68 degrees. Those who
fail to adopt such a cutback risk running
out of fuel before the winter is over.
While additional actions will be neces-
sary to further offset the anticipated
shortage of 17 percent, the steps which I
have outlined tonight will relieve about
10 percent of that shortage.
They will make a very substantial con-
tribution to our immediate goal of insur-
ing that we have enough fuel to be ade-
quately warm in our homes this winter,
that we are able to get to work, and that
we experience no serious disruptions in
the normal conduct of our lives.
Above all, every step will be taken to
insure that any disruptions to our
economy, which could cost jobs, will be as
brief as possible and that they do not
cause serious damage.
Nothing we do can succeed, however,
without the full cooperation of the Con-
gress in providing the legislation we must
have, without the full cooperation of State
and local government in providing the
broad leadership that we must have, and
without the full cooperation of each and
every one of you, all the American peo-
ple, in sacrificing a little so that no one
must endure real hardship.
For my part, I pledge to do everything
in my power to insure that the decisions
I have announced will be carried out
swiftly and effectively and fairly, and
whatever additional action is necessary to
achieve our objective will be taken.
I intend to participate personally and
on a regular basis, as I have since I last
addressed you 3 weeks ago, in the work of
my energy advisers. I intend to advise the
Congressional leadership regularly of
problems and progress. And I intend to
see that the persons and organizations
having responsibilities and capabilities in
this area are fully and regularly informed.
We need new rules if we are to meet
this challenge, but most of all, we need
31-870 O
-
75-65
975
