[53] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
situation in less formal terms: how do
statistical measurements, comparisons and
projections affect the daily lives of in-
dividual Americans and their families?
We build our economy, after all,
not to create cold, impersonal statistics for
the record books but to better the lives of
our people.
Basically, the economy affects people in
three ways.
First, it affects their jobs—how plentiful
they are, how secure they are, how good
they are.
Second, it affects what people are paid
on their jobs-and how much they can
buy with that income.
Finally, it affects how much people have
to pay back to the Government in taxes.
JOB PICTURE ENCOURAGING
To begin with, the job picture today is
very encouraging.
The number of people at work in this
country rose by 2.3 million during 1972-
the largest increase in 25 years. Unem-
ployment fell from the 6 percent level in
1971 to 5 percent last month.
The reason jobs have grown so rapidly
is that the economy grew in real terms by
62 percent last year, one of the best per-
formances in the past quarter century.
Our economic advisers expect a growth
rate of nearly 7 percent in 1973. That
would bring unemployment down to
around the 4½ percent level by the end
of the year.
Five percent unemployment is too high.
Nevertheless, it is instructive to examine
that 5 percent figure more closely.
For example:
-Only 40 percent of those now counted
as unemployed are in that status because
they lost their last job. The rate of layoffs
at the end of last year was lower than it
has been since the Korean War.
-The other 60 percent either left their
last job voluntarily, are seeking jobs for
the first time or are re-entering the labor
force after being out of it for a period of
time.
-About 45 percent of the unemployed
have been unemployed for less than five
weeks.
-As compared with earlier periods
when the overall unemployment rate was
about what it is now, the unemployment
rate is significantly lower for adult males,
household heads and married men.
Among married men it is only 2.4 percent.
Unemployment among these groups
should decline even further during 1973.
This employment gain is even more re-
markable since so many more people have
been seeking jobs than usual. For exam-
ple, nearly three million Americans have
been released from defense-related jobs
since 1969 including over one million
veterans.
The unemployment rate for veterans of
the Vietnam War now stands at 5.9 per-
cent, above the general rate of unemploy-
ment but slightly below the rate for other
males in the 20-to-29-year-old age bracket.
While much better than the 8.5 percent
of a year ago, this 5.9 percent rate is still
too high. The employment problems of
veterans, who have given so much for
their country, will remain high on my list
of concerns for the coming year.
Women and young people have also
been seeking work in record numbers.
Yet, as in the case of veterans, jobs for
these groups have been increasing even
faster. Unemployment among women and
young people has thus declined-but it is
118
