[324] Nov. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
our capacity to provide enormous
amounts of clean energy at the lowest pos-
sible cost. Thus, irrespective of the impli-
cations for our foreign policy and with the
implicit understanding that our intentions
are not remotely isolationist, the increas-
ing costs of foreign energy further contri-
bute to the necessity of our achieving self-
sufficiency in energy.
The White House,
November 8, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
325 Remarks at an Awards
Society of Washington, D.C. November 8, 1973
Dinner of the Nevada State
President Smith and this list of honored
guests is so very long I think I will read
just a little of it-Secretary and Mrs.
Weinberger, and if I may be a bit pre-
mature, Vice President and Mr. Ford-
you notice I made his wife the Vice Presi-
dent-Senator Bible, Senator Cannon,
Senator Symington, Senator John Mc-
Clellan, Senator Long-Russell Long-
and Governor O'Callaghan:
First, I want to apologize for being a
bit late. I could only drive at 50 miles per
hour. And I also want to express my
apologies to you, President Smith, and all
the honored guests, for leaving after my
brief remarks. I have to get back to the
White House to do some work before they
turn off the lights.
I did want to come by today to join the
Nevada State Society in this extraor-
dinary occasion in which you honor three
very great ladies of Nevada-you call
them "Women of the Century”—and I
would say three great ladies of the Nation.
I would simply say that Nevada is not
one of our most populous States. It has,
as we know, much territory, but only one
Congressman and two Senators. But there
is no State in America, large or small, that
has produced three more remarkable
women than the State of Nevada-the
three you honor tonight.
Now, a lot is going to be said about
these honorees by others, and I will not
try to preempt them, because I don't want
them to tear up their notes while I am
speaking, but I would like to put it all in
perspective, if I could, by mentioning each
of them briefly, how I have known each of
them through many, many years.
Eva Adams, I remember meeting you
many, many years ago and you don't
look a bit older today than when I first
met you-when you were the administra-
tive assistant for Pat McCarran and I was
a junior Congressman from California.
We have both come up a bit in the world
since then. You became Director of the
Mint, and now, isn't it Mutual of Omaha?
Is that right? And certainly to be here to
honor you is something that I am very
proud to be able to do.
Helen Bentley is a woman of great
capacity, as we all know, and I am proud
to say that she is the first woman ever to
be appointed by a President of the United
States and I happened to be the Presi-
dent who had the honor to do that to be
appointed as Chairman of one of the regu-
latory agencies-Helen Bentley.
And then, of course, I wanted to come
because you are honoring the first lady in
my family and America's First Lady, Pat
Nixon.
926
