Richard Nixon, 1973
[262]
Sept. 18
occasion in 1949 I was standing outside your
White House, this distinguished house re-
splendent with history, and I was standing by
the rails looking at it, its architecture, its
beauty, and a Negro friend, a gentleman pass-
ing by, stood by as well. And we both had our
hands on the railing. He looked at me and asked
me from which country I came, and I told him
from where I came, and he said that, “If you
were an American, what would you like to be?"
So I said, "If I were an American, I would
like to be inside that house."
So he told me that, "You better get the hell
out of this country because we are going crazy
picking the man for the house itself in our own.
country."
But that is how the past is, and it is remem-
bered vividly. We know that you have been a
good friend of our country, not in the subjec-
tive sense, because you have known that Paki-
stan has been a good friend of the United
States, and I don't use this word in its chau-
vinistic sense, in the sense of its past chivalry.
The world has changed, and we must learn
to adjust ourselves to the changes.
If you ask me, sir, what we have to offer to
your great country, I would tell you candidly,
nothing. We are not a nuclear power; we are
not a technologically advanced country. There
is nothing we can offer in that sense, but there
is something which we can offer to you as your
friends, and that is that our country stands by
its pledges. Our country is dedicated to its prin-
ciples according to its own light, and we have
shown in the existence of Pakistan that in the
last 25 years, no matter what the price-and
sometimes we have had to pay a very heavy
price-but we have stood by our principles and
our pledges.
And if there is any place for us in your big
wide world, please do remember that, that al-
though you might not need the friendship or
the assistance or collaboration of my country
far away from yours, it is a country which is
allied to your country. It is a country which
has stood by its commitments and pledges with
your country throughout the vicissitudes and
buffets of life, and we have every intention of
doing so in the future.
This is our outlook, and this is our concep-
tion of our relationship with the United States.
We have admired, Mr. President, your own
contribution to a new world order, and when
the history of this country is written and when
the history of the great Presidents of the United
States is penned, what will they say of Presi-
dent Nixon?
As far as we are concerned, not only as a
Pakistani but as an Asian coming from Asia,
I can tell you that at least my history books,
the history books of my country, will say here
was a great and a lofty President who broke the
barriers of prejudice and who chalked out a
bold, new policy according to the finest tra-
ditions of American history and brought peace
to a tormented part of the world.
There will be a stamp on the Vietnam chap-
ter; there will be your mark on your relations
with the People's Republic of China; there
will be your image and your sign on your re-
lations with the Soviet Union.
To us in Asia, these are very important pil-
lars, and we feel that the world would have
been further tormented if you had not taken
these splendid initiatives for peace in that part
of the world where most of the humanity lives
in. And this is not how we alone feel, this is
how many of the other countries in Asia feel.
So, history will pay rich and glowing tributes
to your statesmanship, not only as an Ameri-
can President but as a world statesman.
When we look on the future in this light,
the present trivialities will be brushed aside and
a more glorious people dedicated to the cause
of eternal peace will emerge. And in that strug-
gle and in that quest, you, Mr. President, will
be in the forefront.
This is how we see your role, as the leader
of the free world-if that expression is used any-
more as the leader of Western civilization
and as a man of peace.
So, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my
friends from Pakistan, let me salute the Ameri-
can people and their great President for their
everlasting contribution to world peace and in-
ternational tranquillity.
Thank you.
31-870 O - 75 - 54
799
