[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tinued its efforts to prevent and reduce oil
pollution from tanker collisions, ground-
ings, and intentional discharges of oil
ballast and bilge water. In May 1972, I
submitted to the Senate for its advice and
consent provisions to implement standards
adopted by IMCO to reduce oil outflow
from tanks ruptured in vessel casualties.
IMCO's 1973 Conference on Marine Pol-
lution, to be held in October in London,
will focus on measures for the complete
elimination of intentional pollution from
oil and noxious substances and for the
minimization of accidental spills. The
United States is helping to develop a new
international convention to eliminate in-
tentional discharges of oil and hazardous
substances from ships by 1975, if possible,
or at the latest by the end of this decade.
Bilateral Actions. International prog-
ress on the environment in 1972 included
significant bilateral developments.
Last May in Moscow I signed the U.S.-
Soviet Agreement of Cooperation in the
Field of Environmental Protection, which
calls for mutual cooperation and exchange
of information in eleven specific areas.
The Joint Commission to implement this
agreement met in Moscow last September,
and agreed on a number of concrete proj-
ects, including a comparative investiga-
tion of air pollution in St. Louis and
Leningrad; joint studies of water pollu-
tion problems at Lake Baikal in the Soviet
Union and Lake Tahoe and one of the
Great Lakes in the United States; ex-
change of information on environmental
planning in urban areas, with emphasis on
Leningrad in the Soviet Union and At-
lanta and San Francisco in the United
States; and a range of cooperative ven-
tures in areas such as earthquake predic-
tion, wildlife protection, effects of en-
vironmental change on climate, and ma-
rine pollution.
In April 1972 in Ottawa, Prime Min-
ister Trudeau and I signed the U.S.-Ca-
nadian Great Lakes Water Quality Agree-
ment to clean up and prevent further pol-
lution in the Great Lakes. This agreement
establishes an important international
precedent for cooperation between neigh-
boring nations to protect vital shared re-
sources. It specified both general and
specific water quality objectives and set a
December 1975 deadline for various pro-
grams to be completed or underway.
In a joint communique issued last June
with President Echeverría of Mexico, I
announced that the United States would
take immediate measures to reduce the
salinity level of the Colorado River, a
problem which Mexico has indicated
damages agriculture in the Mexicali Val-
ley. The communique also contained an
agreement that policy-level officials from
our two nations would meet regularly to
discuss other mutual environmental con-
cerns and to develop methods for dealing
with them more systematically.
These, then, are the challenges which
confront the entire world community.
The international response during the past
year to these issues has been encouraging.
These efforts are providing institutional
foundations for effective future action.
While many problems still remain unre-
solved, the world has moved closer to the
global solutions that are required.
CONCLUSION
In the past four years, there have been
fundamental changes and signal successes.
We have cleared away vestiges of the
past. We have erased or moderated hos-
516
