Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 12 [328]
327 Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol to the
Convention for the International Council for the
Exploration of the Sea.
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Protocol to the
Convention for the International Council
for the Exploration of the Sea, done at
Copenhagen on August 13, 1970.
This Protocol amends the Convention
for the International Council for the Ex-
ploration of the Sea, done at Copenhagen
September 12, 1964, with respect to the
vote required by the Council for approv-
ing its annual budget. I transmit, for the
November 9, 1973
information of the Senate, the report re-
ceived from the Department of State with
respect to the Protocol.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Proto-
col submitted herewith and give its ad-
vice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
November 9, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the protocol and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
V (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
328 Statement Announcing Procedures for Providing
Presidential Tape Recordings and Documents to the
United States District Court.
AS A CONSEQUENCE of the public dis-
closure 2 weeks ago that two conversa-
tions of the President were not recorded
on the White House recording system,
doubts have arisen about just what hap-
pened to these conversations and why they
were not recorded. The purpose of this
statement is to help dispel those doubts
and to spell out certain steps I will take to
offer information to the court that will
help determine the substance of all nine
conversations subpoenaed by the court.
First, there are no missing tapes. There
are two conversations requested by the
courts which were not recorded. The first
is a 4-minute conversation with the former
Attorney General, John Mitchell, on
June 20, 1972. The second is a meeting
of 55 minutes with John Dean, late in
November 12, 1973
the evening of Sunday, April 15, 1973.
There is no question in my mind but
that the open-court hearing now being
conducted will demonstrate to the court's
satisfaction the truth of our statements
that these two conversations were never
recorded. In fact there is no affirmative
evidence to the contrary. I believe that
when the court concludes its evaluation of
the testimony and documentary evidence,
public doubt on this issue will be com-
pletely and satisfactorily removed.
In the meantime, I believe it important
to make a statement about this proceed-
ing so that misconceptions about this mat-
ter do not persist, simply because certain
basic facts are not presented to the Ameri-
can public.
First, the Senate Select Committee did
929
