Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 17 [126]
All members of the White House Staff
will
appear voluntarily when requested by
the committee. They will testify under
oath, and they will answer fully all proper
questions.
I should point out that this arrange-
ment is one that covers this hearing only
in which wrongdoing has been charged.
This kind of arrangement, of course,
would not apply to other hearings. Each
of them will be considered on its merits.
My second announcement concerns the
Watergate case directly.
On March 21, as a result of serious
charges which came to my attention, some
of which were publicly reported, I began
intensive new inquiries into this whole
matter.
Last Sunday afternoon, the Attorney
General, Assistant Attorney General
Petersen, and I met at length in the EOB
to review the facts which had come to me
in my investigation and also to review the
progress of the Department of Justice
investigation.
I can report today that there have been
major developments in the case concern-
ing which it would be improper to be
more specific now, except to say that real
progress has been made in finding the
truth.
If any person in the executive branch or
in the Government is indicted by the
grand jury, my policy will be to imme-
diately suspend him. If he is convicted,
he will, of course, be automatically dis-
charged.
I have expressed to the appropriate au-
thorities my view that no individual hold-
ing, in the past or at present, a position of
major importance in the Administration
should be given immunity from prosecu-
tion.
The judicial process is moving ahead as
it should, and I shall aid it in all appro-
priate ways and have so informed the
appropriate authorities.
As I have said before and I have said
throughout this entire matter, all Govern-
ment employees and especially White
House Staff employees are expected fully
to cooperate in this matter. I condemn
any attempts to cover up in this case, no
matter who is involved.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President made the announcements
at 4:42 p.m. in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
126 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Andreotti
of Italy. April 17, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Andreotti,
Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Agnew, and
all of our distinguished guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, it is my privilege to
tell you something about this audience
here in the State Dining Room and their
presence in honoring you. It is only co-
incidental that included in the audience
are people like Mayor Rizzo from the city
of Philadelphia, Mr. Peter Fosco, a major
labor leader of this country, a United
States Congressman, Silvio Conte, a Sen-
ator by the name of Pastore, and another
by the name of Domenici, and an Ambas-
sador to the United Nations by the name
of Scali―only coincidental—and that the
red wine we had tonight is Louis Martini
from California.
I am simply trying to say, Mr. Prime
Minister, that in America, as you know so
299
