[68] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment in Federal programs. But it also
means giving the lead role back to grass-
roots governments again. The time has
come to reject the patronizing notion that
Federal planners, peering over the point of
a pencil in Washington, can guide your
lives better than you can.
Last October, at Independence Hall in
Philadelphia, I signed into law a general
revenue sharing bill. This bill allocates
30 billion Federal dollars over the next 5
years for State and local governments to
use however they like.
Revenue sharing represents a new Dec-
laration of Independence for State and
local governments. It gives grassroots gov-
ernments a new chance to stand on their
own feet.
Revenue sharing money can be used to
put more policemen on the beat, to build
new schools, to lower property taxes, or
for whatever other purpose you and your
local leaders think best.
Let me emphasize one point which is
often misunderstood. General revenue
sharing money is new money. It was never
intended to replace programs we are now
cutting back. To replace those programs,
I am asking the Congress to create four
new special revenue sharing programs.
One of these new revenue sharing bills,
the Better Communities Act, would pro-
vide $2.3 billion in its first year of opera-
tion. This aid will have no strings at-
tached as long as it is used for community
development. Your local leaders can go
on spending it the way Washington was
spending it if they like. But they would
also be free to work out better plans with-
out having to get Washington's approval.
We have several other proposals which
deserve the support of every American
taxpayer.
One is our recommendation for a new
Department of Community Development.
This department will pull together pro-
grams which are now scattered among
different departments or agencies. It
would put them under a single roof. I first
made this proposal nearly 2 years ago. It
is time for the Congress to act on it. As a
first step toward getting better coordina-
tion in this field, I have already appointed
a Counsellor to the President for Com-
munity Development [James T. Lynn].
Another key recommendation is our
$110 million proposal to help State and
local governments build up their admin-
istrative skills and planning expertise.
In the field of housing, we must stop
programs that have been turning the Fed-
eral Government into a nationwide slum-
lord. One of my highest domestic pri-
orities this year will be the development
of new policies that eliminate waste and
target aid to genuinely needy families.
One of our highest priorities must be to
improve transportation. In the past 20
years, Federal money has helped build the
world's best system of modern highways.
Our Administration has committed $19
billion to this goal. Now we must concen-
trate on moving people within our cities as
effectively as we move them between our
cities. We must help our communities de-
velop urban mass transit systems of which
America can truly be proud.
I propose that our States and com-
munities be given the right to use a des-
ignated portion of the Highway Trust
Fund for capital improvements in ur-
ban public transportation, including im-
provements in bus and rapid rail systems.
Changing the way we use the Highway
Trust Fund should be one of the top items
on our national agenda. If we do not act
166
