Appendix B
February
9 The President asked former Secretary
of Commerce Peter G. Peterson to be his
Personal Representative, with the personal
rank of Ambassador, to conduct a series of
talks with European and Japanese leaders.
Departing on February 12, Ambassador
Peterson would visit Rome, Bonn, Paris,
London, and Brussels. The President asked
that during these talks, Ambassador Peter-
son explore, with government and Euro-
pean Community leaders as well as with
representatives of business and the intellec-
tual community, questions of mutual inter-
est, including economic, security, and politi-
cal aspects of the U.S.-European relation-
ship. Ambassador Peterson's trip to Japan
would take place in March.
10 Vice President Agnew met with the Presi-
dent at the Western White House to report
on his visit, begun January 28, to South
Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Ma-
laysia, Singapore, and Indonesia. The Vice
President had met with leaders of these
countries to discuss postwar relations be-
tween the United States and the nations
concerned, to explain the continuing Amer-
ican role in Asia, and to reaffirm the United
States desire for peace and self-determina-
tion for all the countries of Southeast Asia.
12 Frank E. Fitzsimmons, general president of
the International Brotherhood of Team-
sters, met with the President at the Western
White House.
12 Gov. Ronald Reagan of California met
with the President at the Western White
House.
12 Soviet Minister of Food Industry V. P. Lein
called on the President at the Western
White House. He was accompanied by Don-
ald M. Kendall, chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of Pepsico, who was
Mr. Lein's host during his visit to the
United States.
12 Counsellor to the President Anne Arm-
strong represented the President at a
wreath-laying ceremony at the Lincoln
Memorial, in connection with Lincoln's
birthday observances.
February
13 Ambassador John A. Scali met with the
President at the White House prior to as-
suming his post as United States Repre-
sentative to the United Nations.
13 The White House released a report to the
President on relief and reconstruction ef-
forts following the earthquake in Managua,
Nicaragua, by Maurice J. Williams, Deputy
Administrator of the Agency for Interna-
tional Development and the President's
Special Coordinator for Emergency Relief
to Nicaragua.
13 Ambassador Donald Rumsfeld met with the
President at the White House prior to as-
suming his post as United States Permanent
Representative on the Council of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.
13 Special Counsel to the President Charles W.
Colson met with the President at the White
House prior to departing for a series of dis-
cussions with officials in Moscow and
Bucharest on improving and expanding
facilities for American businessmen in the
Soviet Union and Romania. In addition,
Mr. Colson would dedicate, on behalf of the
President, an East-West trade center in
Vienna.
14 Ambassador Richard Helms met with the
President at the White House prior to as-
suming his post as United States Ambas-
sador to Iran.
15 The President met at the White House with
J. Curtis Counts, who was resigning as Di-
rector of the Federal Mediation and Con-
ciliation Service, to thank him personally
for his service over the past 4 years and to
wish him well as he returned to private life.
16 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House. Vice President Agnew re-
ported on his trip to Southeast Asia, and
Secretary of the Treasury Shultz reported
on trade and monetary matters.
16 Sir Christopher Soames, Vice President and
Commissioner for External Affairs of the
European Commission, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
1067
