Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 3 [106]
carried out. They agreed that this Arti-
cle should be quickly implemented.
In assessing the prospects for peace
throughout Indochina the two Presidents
stressed the need for vigilance on the part
of the governments in the Indochinese
states against the possibility of renewed
Communist aggression after the de-
parture of United States ground forces
from South Vietnam. They stressed the
fact that this vigilance will require the
continued political, economic, and mili-
tary strength of the governments and na-
tions menaced by any renewal of this ag-
gressive threat. Because of their limited
resources, the nations of the region will
require external assistance to preserve the
necessary social and economic stability
for peaceful development.
In this context, President Thieu af-
firmed the determination of the Viet-
namese people and the Government to
forge ahead with the task of providing
adequate and timely relief to war victims,
reconstructing damaged social and eco-
nomic infrastructures, and building a
strong and viable economy, so that the
Vietnamese nation can gradually
shoulder a greater burden in the main-
tenance of peace and the achievement of
economic progress for its people. The two
Presidents agreed that in order to attain
the stated economic goals as quickly as
possible, the Republic of Vietnam will
need greater external economic assistance
in the initial years of the post war era.
President Nixon reaffirmed his whole-
hearted support for the endeavors of post
war rehabilitation, reconstruction and de-
velopment of the Republic of Vietnam.
He informed President Thieu of the Uni-
ted States intention to provide adequate
and substantial economic assistance for
the Republic of Vietnam during the re-
mainder of this year and to seek Con-
gressional authority for a level of fund-
ing for the next year sufficient to assure
essential economic stability and rehabili-
tation for that country as it now moves
from war to peace. He recognized that the
economic development and self-sufficiency
of South Vietnam depend to a significant
extent on its ability to promote and at-
tract foreign investment. He also ex-
pressed his intention to seek Congressional
support for a longer range program for
the economic development of South Viet-
nam now that the war has ended.
The two Presidents expressed their
earnest hope that other nations as well
as international institutions will act
promptly on a positive and concerted pro-
gram of international assistance to the
Republic of Vietnam. They also agreed
that consultations should soon be held in
this regard with all interested parties.
The two Presidents expressed hope that
the implementation of the Agreement on
Vietnam would permit a normalization
of relations with all countries of Southeast
Asia. They agreed that this step and a
regional reconstruction program will in-
crease the prospects of a lasting peace in
the area.
President Nixon discussed the future
security of South Vietnam in the context
of the Nixon Doctrine. The President
noted that the assumption by the Re-
public of Vietnam of the full manpower
requirements for its own defense was fully
in keeping with his doctrine. He affirmed
that the United States for its part, ex-
pected to continue, in accordance with its
Constitutional processes, to supply the
Republic of Vietnam with the material
means for its defense consistent with the
Agreement on Ending the War.
President Thieu asked President Nixon
253
