Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 20 [51]
ship of Senator Strom Thurmond, there
is no delegation from any State in the
Union that has given more firm support
to the policies that made the achievement
of peace settlement possible.
It is interesting to note that the delega-
tion in the Senate is half and half, Repub-
lican and Democratic. The delegation in
the House of Representatives is about half
and half, Republican and Democrat. But
as the late Mendel Rivers used to say,
when the defense of America and the
honor of America is involved, we are not
Republicans, we are not Democrats, we
are Americans, and that is the spirit which
has motivated the delegation from South
Carolina always in the House of Rep-
resentatives and the United States Senate.
Now I would like to turn to the set-
tlement which has been discussed at con-
siderable length, probably, on the floor of
this chamber when the resolution was
passed, and also throughout the country
since that settlement was announced. I
should like to speak to you quite candidly
about the settlement in terms of what it
really means—what it means to America,
what it means to the people of South
Vietnam, and what it means to the world.
In referring to that settlement, I think
it is important for us to note that I have
often used the term "peace with honor."
What does peace with honor mean? And
here we go back into the long history of
this terribly difficult war, the longest in
this Nation's history.
Because the war has been so long and
because it has been so difficult, there is a
tendency for us to forget how the United
States became involved, and why. It
would be very easy now, looking back, to
point out the mistakes that were made in
the conduct of the war, to even question
whether or not the United States should
have become involved in the first place.
But let us get one thing very clear: When,
during the course of President Kennedy's
Administration, the first men were sent
to Vietnam for combat, when, during the
course of President Johnson's Adminis-
tration others were sent there to continue
the activities in the military area, they
were sent there for the most selfless pur-
pose that any nation has ever fought a
war.
We did not go to South Vietnam, and
our men did not go there, for the purpose
of conquering North Vietnam. Our men
did not go to South Vietnam for the pur-
pose of getting bases in South Vietnam
or acquiring territory or domination over
that part of the world. They went for a
very high purpose, and that purpose can
never be taken away from them or this
country. It was, very simply, to prevent
the imposition by force of a Communist
government on the 17 million people of
South Vietnam. That was our goal, and
we achieved that goal, and we can be
proud that we stuck it out until we did
reach that goal.
Now the question, of course, will be
raised by historians-the instant historians
of the present and those who look at it in
the future and attempt to evaluate this
long and difficult war-was the purpose
worth it? Was the sacrifice worth it?
Only historians in the future, perhaps,
will be able to judge that accurately, but
we, at this time, and, I know, you, as you
passed your resolution, must have con-
sidered the alternatives.
We had alternatives. I recall when I
first became President there were those of
my own party who suggested that, after
all, I had not made the decision that in-
volved the United States with combat
troops in Vietnam in the first place and,
109
