Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 17 [302]
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
The remarks followed his meeting with
'Umar al-Saqqaf, Minister of State for Foreign
Affairs of Saudi Arabia; Sabah al-Ahmad
al-Jabir al-Sabah, Minister of Foreign Affairs
of Kuwait; Ahmed Taibi Benhima, Minister of
Foreign Affairs of Morocco; and Abdelaziz
Bouteflika, Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Algeria.
302 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Trade Agreements Program for 1972.
October 17, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 402(a) of
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (TEA),
I transmit herewith the Seventeenth An-
nual Report of the President on the Trade
Agreements Program. This report covers
developments in the year ending Decem-
ber 31, 1972.
In the period since I last reported to the
Congress on our trade agreements pro-
gram, we have taken major new initiatives
to give strong momentum to closer multi-
lateral cooperation and to develop a fairer
and more efficient framework for the con-
duct of international economic relations.
As a result of intense preparatory work
throughout 1972, nations accounting for
the bulk of world trade, meeting in Tokyo
last month, opened a major round of new
negotiations to reduce tariff and nontariff
barriers to trade and to reform the rules
by which all can gain from expanded
trade. In the related field of monetary
affairs, encouraging progress has been
achieved on reform of the international
monetary system to provide sound under-
pinnings for a fairer, more open trading
system.
Concurrently with work on these basic
longer term objectives, U.S. negotiators
also pressed actively in bilateral consulta-
tions for the early removal of foreign non-
tariff barriers which have distorted
normal trade patterns and restricted U.S.
exports. The success of these efforts has,
in some cases, opened markets where U.S.
exporters have competed at a disadvan-
tage for over two decades. In other in-
stances, prompt U.S. assertion of our
rights under the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade has either deterred the
institution of proposed restrictions or re-
sulted in their early termination.
As a result of U.S. representations, our
traders are already realizing tangible bene-
fits from the major liberalization of quotas
and licensing by Japan and the virtual
elimination of Japanese export incentives.
Compensatory taxes affecting some $40
million of U.S. agricultural exports were
terminated on 98 percent of the products
involved. The reduction or removal of
these and other trade distortions demon-
strates that sound trade policy and vigor-
ous negotiation can create new and better
opportunities for American businesses,
farms, and workers.
Consistent with our efforts to strengthen
the fabric of common interests between
this country and the Soviet Union, we con-
cluded a major agreement last year which
lays the basis for the normalization of
relations in the trade field. Important
initial steps also have been taken to reduce
barriers to commercial relations with the
People's Republic of China. These devel-
883
