Appendix B
July
30 Edward Gough Whitlam, Prime Minister
of Australia, met with the President at the
White House.
30 The President presented the Distinguished
Service Medal to Gen. John D. Ryan, Air
Force Chief of Staff, in a ceremony in the
Oval Office at the White House. General
Ryan was retiring July 31 after 35 years of
service.
30 Myles J. Ambrose, who resigned as Special
Assistant Attorney General, Office for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement, met with the
President at the White House.
30 Ambassador Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa, dean
of the diplomatic corps, met with the Pres-
ident at the White House on the occasion
of the 30th anniversary of his service as Nic-
araguan Ambassador to the United States.
30 The President met at the White House with
Robert E. Bauman, of Easton, Md., Repub-
lican candidate for the Congressional seat
from Maryland's First District.
30 The President met at the White House with
Senator Ted Stevens, Representative Don-
ald E. Young, and a delegation of Alaska
citizens to discuss Alaska pipeline legisla-
tion. The delegation included former Gov-
ernor Keith Miller, State House Speaker
Thomas Fink, State Senate President Terry
Miller, State Senate Majority Leader Clif-
ford Groh, and State Representative Selyn
Carroll.
31 Mr. and Mrs. George C. Lang met with the
President at the White House. Mr. Lang
had received the Medal of Honor from the
President in an East Room ceremony on
March 2, 1971. They were accompanied
by Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan.
August
I Jack Miller, former Senator from Iowa, met
with the President at the White House. Mr.
Miller was nominated to be an Associate
Judge of the United States Court of Cus-
toms and Patent Appeals.
August
2 Albert Bernard Bongo, President of the
Gabonese Republic, met with President
Nixon at the White House.
2 Jessica Solomon, age 9, of Harrisburg, Pa.,
called on the President at the White House.
The President met Miss Solomon during
his September 1972 inspection of the disas-
ter area in Pennsylvania following Tropical
Storm Agnes. She was accompanied by
Pennsylvania Representatives George A.
Goodling and Herman T. Schneebeli.
2 James B. Cardwell, nominated to be Com-
missioner of Social Security, met with the
President at the White House.
6 In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the Presi-
dent signed into law the Crime Control Act
of 1973 (H.R. 8152 approved August 6,
1973, as Public Law 93-83, 87 Stat. 197).
6 The President met at the White House with
Chester Robert Lane who was designated as
Executive Secretary of the Federal Property
Council.
6 The President met at the White House with
Brig. Gen. Richard L. Lawson, USAF, who
was assigned as Military Assistant to the
President.
6 The President greeted White House interns
who were meeting with Counsellor to the
President Anne Armstrong in the Roosevelt
Room at the White House. The President
thanked them for their work at the White
House during the summer.
7 The President directed the Secretary of
Labor to certify as eligible for adjustment
assistance under the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 former employees of the Buffalo,
N.Y., plant of General Electric Co.
7 The President met with Vice President
Spiro T. Agnew in the President's office in
the Old Executive Office Building.
1079
