Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
not a question of whether certain ele-
ments should be separable, or conditional,
but whether we wish the entire process
of a broadly based new relationship with
the Soviet Union to unfold.
The next step is to end discrimination
against imports of Soviet goods into this
country so that the Soviet Union can earn
the dollars to help it pay for imports from
the United States. This step will require
action by the Congress to provide the
President with authority to negotiate the
reciprocal extension of Most Favored Na-
tion treatment. I have submitted legisla-
tion to the Congress in this regard, as I am
committed to do under the agreements
reached with the Soviet Union. Exten-
sion of MFN is a logical and natural step
in the emerging relationship; it is not a
unilateral concession but a means to ex-
pand commerce in the context of broadly
improved relations.
We are also prepared to consider pos-
sible longer-term cooperative ventures.
The Soviet Union has vast natural re-
sources, such as natural gas, that can be
developed with the help of American
capital and technology. These resources
would then be available for export to the
United States, thus enabling the Soviet
Union to repay our credits and pay for im-
ports from the United States. The role of
our government should be to establish a
framework within which private firms
might work out specific contracts. Since
the Soviet Union plans its economic pro-
gram for five-year periods, its willingness
to enter into long-term ventures of this
kind suggests an expectation of coopera-
tive relations and imports requiring dol-
lar payments well into the future. Such
ventures do not create a one-sided de-
pendence by the United States upon So-
viet resources; they establish an interde-
pendence between our economies which
provides a continuing incentive to main-
tain a constructive relationship.
The SALT Agreements. Of historic
significance were the two agreements
which General Secretary Brezhnev and I
reached limiting strategic arms: a treaty
limiting anti-ballistic missile systems, and
an interim agreement limiting certain
strategic offensive weapons. These agree-
ments are discussed in detail in the Arms
Control section of this Report. Technical
aspects of arms control were at the core
of the negotiations, but the significance
of the agreements transcends specific pro-
visions and goes to the heart of the post-
war competition between us.
Some years ago, when the United
States was strategically predominant, an
agreement freezing the strategic balance
was unrealistic. It was highly improbable
that the Soviet Union would resign itself
to permanent inferiority. Indeed, after
the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, the Soviet
Union began a major expansion in its
strategic weaponry. Had this expansion
continued unabated through the 1970's,
the United States would have had no
choice but to launch a massive new strate-
gic armament program. The present mo-
ment thus offered a unique opportunity to
strike a reasonable balance in strategic
capabilities and to break with the pattern
of unlimited competition.
Such an opportunity posed a funda-
mental question: could both sides accept
the risks of restraint explicit in arms limi-
tations? In the defensive field, new pro-
grams offered some element of protection
but beckoned a new round of competi-
tion. Offensive systems were required to
guarantee security, but their steady accu-
373
