Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 26 [13]
13 Message to the Congress Transmitting Reorganization
Plan 1 of 1973 Restructuring the Executive Office of
the President. January 26, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
On January 5 I announced a three-part
program to streamline the executive
branch of the Federal Government. By
concentrating less responsibility in the
President's immediate staff and more in
the hands of the departments and agen-
cies, this program should significantly im-
prove the services of the Government. I
believe these reforms have become so ur-
gently necessary that I intend, with the
cooperation of the Congress, to pursue
them with all of the resources of my office
during the coming year.
The first part of this program is a re-
newed drive to achieve passage of my
legislative proposals to overhaul the Cabi-
net departments. Secondly, I have ap-
pointed three Cabinet Secretaries as
Counsellors to the President with coordi-
nating responsibilities in the broad areas
of human resources, natural resources,
and community development, and five
Assistants to the President with special re-
sponsibilities in the areas of domestic af-
fairs, economic affairs, foreign affairs,
executive management, and operations of
the White House.
The third part of this program is a
sharp reduction in the overall size of the
Executive Office of the President and a
reorientation of that office back to its
original mission as a staff for top-level
policy formation and monitoring of policy
execution in broad functional areas. The
Executive Office of the President should
no longer be encumbered with the task of
managing or administering programs
which can be run more effectively by the
departments and agencies. I have there-
fore concluded that a number of special-
ized operational and program functions
should be shifted out of the Executive
Office into the line departments and agen-
cies of the Government. Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1973, transmitted herewith,
would effect such changes with respect to
emergency preparedness functions and
scientific and technological affairs.
STREAMLINING THE FEDERAL SCIENCE
ESTABLISHMENT
When the National Science Foundation
was established by an act of the Congress
in 1950, its statutory responsibilities in-
cluded evaluation of the Government's
scientific research programs and develop-
ment of basic science policy. In the late
1950's, however, with the effectiveness of
the U.S. science effort under serious
scrutiny as a result of Sputnik, the post of
Science Adviser to the President was
established. The White House became in-
creasingly involved in the evaluation and
coordination of research and development
programs and in science policy matters,
and that involvement was institutionalized
in 1962 when a reorganization plan estab-
lished the Office of Science and Tech-
nology within the Executive Office of the
President, through transfer of authorities
formerly vested in the National Science
Foundation.
With advice and assistance from OST
during the past decade, the scientific and
technological capability of the Govern-
ment has been markedly strengthened.
21
