Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 26 [340]
where the real, the greatest part of the
crisis is, are not going to be cold this win-
ter. It will mean that all over this country
we are going to have the chance to live
perhaps in cooler rooms, drive a little
slower, not so many ornamental lights,
and frankly, perhaps live a little better,
even though it is a little different than
what we have lived previously.
Now, of course, having mentioned these
things, I know that to many in this au-
dience and I can tell from looking at
you that many of you served, as I did, in
World War II-think back to World War
II, rationing, all that we went through,
and say, "What are we going to do? Are
we going to go back to the days when
America didn't have enough of anything,
not enough gasoline, not enough meat,
not enough of this and that and the other
thing?" And the answer is, our goal is not
to go back; our goal is to go forward.
But we have a temporary problem, a
problem that is going to exist for this
perhaps somewhat longer-we trust, not
much longer, depending upon what hap-
pens in the international scene-and
therefore, we have got to deal with that
problem. But long-term, let me tell you
the goal, and here we get back to what I
said at the outset of my remarks.
year,
You believe in independence. You live
independence. That is why you want an
American merchant marine. That is why
you say that we want some of our products
carried in American bottoms, and cer-
tainly we want enough of them carried so
that we will always have a substantial,
strong American merchant marine which
meant so much to us during World
War II.
Paul has been very kind in referring to
the fact that for the first time in 12 years,
America is at peace with all nations in the
world, that all of our prisoners of war are
home, that no more at this particular time
do we find casualties running 100, 200,
300 a week, and that is, of course, an
achievement. And we are trying to build a
structure of peace in the world by dealing
with some people that particularly the
Seafarers have some strong ideological
convictions against, as I do the Com-
munist nations. We are trying to deal with
them, not because we like their system,
because we would rather talk with those
that lead their system rather than fight
with those that lead their system.
That is what our policy is about, and
that policy, we think, can work if we are
sure that we deal with them in a prag-
matic, effective way. But as we look at
that situation, nevertheless, apart from
war, there is always the possibility of that
area of conflict which is just below a war
that involves the United States.
I am referring to the crisis in the Mid-
east. There are other crises that could de-
velop-in Latin America, other parts of
the world—and the point that I make is
that it is essential in terms of independ-
ence that the United States be, as a nation,
independent of any other nation in every
area that it counts, and let me put it first
in terms of your area.
I am for a strong American merchant
marine because if the United States,
wherever there is a crisis, is going to be
dependent on some other country, no mat-
ter how friendly it may appear to be at
the moment, as our lifeline, then we had
better watch out. Let's always be depend-
ent on the United States of America
whenever we have that kind of a crisis.
Now, energy is not so easy to under-
stand. Oh, you all can understand it, but
to the average person, he can understand
that ship, perhaps, and he can say, "Well,
979
