Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
of our generosity were being questioned.
Our policies needed change, not only to
match new realities in the world but also
to meet a new mood in America. Many
Americans were no longer willing to sup-
port the sweeping range of our postwar
role. It had drained our financial, and
especially our psychological, reserves.
Our friends clearly were able to do more.
The Vietnam experience was hastening
our awareness of change. Voices in this
country were claiming that we had to
jettison global concerns and turn inward
in order to meet our domestic problems.
Therefore the whole underpinning of
our foreign policy was in jeopardy. The
bipartisan consensus that once existed for
a vigorous American internationalism was
now being torn apart. Some of the most
active proponents of America's commit-
ment in the world in previous decades
were now pressing for indiscriminate dis-
engagement. What was once seen
America's overseas obligation was now
seen as our overseas preoccupation. What
was once viewed as America's unselfish-
ness was now viewed as our naivete. By
1969 we faced the danger that public
backing for a continuing world role might
be swept away by fatigue, frustration and
over-reaction.
THIS ADMINISTRATION'S APPROACH
We were determined to shape new poli-
cies to deal with each of these problems.
But our first requirement was philosophic.
We needed a fresh vision to inspire and to
integrate our efforts.
We began with the conviction that a
major American commitment to the
world continued to be indispensable. The
many changes in the postwar landscape
did not alter this central fact. America's
strength was so vast, our involvement so
broad, and our concerns so deep, that to
remove our influence would set off trem-
ors around the globe. Friends would de-
spair, adversaries would be tempted, and
our own national security would soon be
threatened. There was no escaping the
reality of our enormous influence for
peace.
But the new times demanded a new def-
inition of our involvement. For more than
a score of years our foreign policy had
been driven by a global mission that only
America could fulfill-to furnish political
leadership, provide for the common de-
fense, and promote economic develop-
ment. Allies were weak and other nations
were young, threats were palpable and
American power was dominant.
By 1969, a mission of this scale was no
longer valid abroad or supportable at
home. Allies had grown stronger and
young nations were maturing, threats
were diversified and American power was
offset. It was time to move from a paternal
mission for others to a cooperative mis-
sion with others. Convinced as we were
that a strong American role remained es-
sential for world stability, we knew, too,
that a peace that depends primarily on
the exertions of one nation is inherently
fragile.
So we saw the potential and the im-
perative of a pluralistic world. We be-
lieved we could move from an environ-
ment of emergencies to a more stable in-
ternational system. We made our new
purpose a global structure of peace-
comprehensive because it would draw on
the efforts of other countries; durable be-
cause if countries helped to build it, they
would also help to maintain it.
To pursue this fundamental vision, we
had to move across a wide and coordi-
31-870 - 75 - 26
351
