Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 26 [312]
changed in that way result in a settlement
rather than a confrontation.
MR. REBOZO AND CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS
[11.] Mr. Deakin?
Q. Yes, Mr. Deakin [James Deakin, St.
Louis Post-Dispatch]. Is it credible, can
the American people believe that your
close friend, Mr. Rebozo, for 3 years, dur-
ing which time you saw him weekly some-
times, kept from you the fact that he had
$100,000 in cash from Mr. Howard
Hughes? Is that credible? Is it credible
that your personal attorney, Mr. Kalm-
bach, knew about this money for at least a
year and never told you about it?
And if this was a campaign contribu-
tion, as your press secretaries say, who
authorized Mr. Rebozo to collect cam-
paign contributions for your reelection or
for the Republican Party?
What campaign committee was he an
official of?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is obviously
not credible to you, and I suppose
that it
would sound incredible to many people
who do not know how I operate. In terms
of campaign contributions, I have had a
rule, Mr. Deakin, which Mr. Stans, Mr.
Kalmbach, Mr. Rebozo, and every contri-
butor will agree has been the rule—I have
refused always to accept contributions
myself. I have refused to have any dis-
cussion of contributions. As a matter of
fact, my orders to Mr. Stans were that
after the campaign was over, I would then
send notes of appreciation to those that
contributed, but before the election, I did
not want to have any information from
anybody with regard to campaign contri-
butions.
Now, with regard to Mr. Rebozo, let me
say that he showed, I think, very good
judgment in doing what he did. He re-
ceived a contribution. He was prepared to
turn it over to the finance chairman when
the finance chairman was appointed. But
in that interlude, after he received the
contribution and before the finance
chairman was appointed, the Hughes
company, as you all know, had an inter-
nal fight of massive proportions, and he
felt that such a contribution to the cam-
paign might prove to be embarrassing.
At the conclusion of the campaign, he
decided that it would be in the best in-
terests of everybody concerned rather
than to turn the money over then, to be
used in the '74 campaigns, to return it in-
tact. And I would say that any individual,
and particularly a banker, who would
have a contribution of $100,000 and not
touch it because it was turned back in
exactly the form it was received-I think
that is a pretty good indication that he is
a totally honest man, which he is.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, after the tapes
are presented to Judge Sircia and they
are processed under the procedure out-
lined by the U.S. Court of Appeals, will
you make those tapes public?
THE PRESIDENT. No, that is not the
procedure that the court has ordered, and
it would not be proper. Judge Sirica, un-
der the circuit court's order, is to listen
to the tapes and, then, is to present to
the grand jury the pertinent evidence with
regard to its investigation. Publication of
the tapes has not been ordered by the
circuit court of appeals, and Judge
Sirica, of course, would not do anything
903
