[292] Oct. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
are so essential if in times of crisis we are
to avoid those explosions that could lead
to war.
And then, of course, there is another,
broader point that should be made. As the
nations of the world have a greater stake
in peace, they have a less incentive to
wage war. And as we have more
expanded world trade, trade with all
nations, it means that nations which other-
wise might be tempted to wage war be-
cause of their concerns about inability to
move up their standard of living at home
could develop a stake in peace. I firmly
believe that.
I know that that is not easy to accom-
plish, and you know it as well. But I am
sure that as we look toward the years
ahead, that as the United States, along
with other nations, whether they be in the
more advanced industrial nations in Eu-
rope or in Asia or in the less developed
countries, as the United States increases
its trade with those nations, it inevitably
will mean that their standard of living will
rise, as will ours, and as theirs rises, their
people and their governments will have a
stake in peace. They will have a stake also
in good relations with the United States.
So, I have stated both ends of the
proposition. On the one hand, that trade
by itself does not lead to peace. It does
not, and that is a grave illusion ever to
think that it would. But the fact that if we
have trade combined with an intelligent
and pragmatic foreign policy, we can
build a structure of peace which it would
be much more difficult to build if we did
not have the communications which trade
brings and also the raising of the standard
of living which inevitably will come as we
trade with other nations.
So, what I am saying to all of you here
today is that this trip to Washington, I
hope, will be useful to you in the years
ahead in terms of bringing more business
to the concerns that you represent. That
is good for your various corporations or
companies, as the case may be; it is good
for the United States, for labor, for busi-
ness; and it is good for the nations abroad.
But also it serves a much larger purpose.
You are part of, you are playing a very
important role in what I consider to be
the great adventure of the last third of
this century, and that is the adventure of
building for the first time in this century
a structure of peace for the whole world
that will last.
I suppose it is rather ironic for me to
speak of a structure of peace at a time
when we have a very difficult war going on
in the Mideast. I say we, even though the
United States is not involved, because
when war hits that part of the world, it
inevitably leads to repercussions through
Europe and Asia and, of course, the
Americas as well.
And so, we are concerned about that
war. We are trying to play a responsible
role in helping to bring the fighting to an
end and then beyond that to build a struc-
ture of peace that will be permanent and
not temporary.
That is all that I can say on that sub-
ject at this time, but let me first say, in
addition to that, that while we have the
truce in the Mideast broken at this time,
we find that the United States is at peace
with every nation in the world, and this
is the first time that a President of the
United States could say that for 12 years.
And that, of course, is a hopeful develop-
ment, but that also is not something that
we can stand by and simply rest on our
laurels, because we have ended wars be-
fore, and yet in every generation we fol-
low with another war.
864
