Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
in the growth of offensive forces. If
the buildup continued unchecked, it
would almost certainly produce dan-
gerous strategic instabilities-espe-
cially if limitations on missile defense
created a premium on striking first.
This was not a tactical dispute, but a
major substantive issue that could
only be resolved by high-level politi-
cal decisions.
-The treaty reached between West
Germany and the Soviet Union in
August 1970 had changed the
character and significance of the
Berlin negotiations among the Four
Powers. Ratification of this treaty
depended on the outcome of the
negotiations over Berlin. And it was
general Western policy that the pros-
pect for a wider European dialogue
on security was similarly conditioned
on a Berlin agreement that would
safeguard access to the city and its
links to the Federal Republic. Thus,
progress on Berlin would also in-
volve basic decisions in Moscow.
Through intense and private exchanges
with the Soviet leaders, a breakthrough
was made, first in SALT, then in the
Berlin negotiations.
-A new framework was created for
SALT in May 1971 maintaining the
link between offensive and defensive
limitations, as the United States be-
lieved essential. At the same time,
we agreed to concentrate our efforts
on ABM limitations. Since these sys-
tems were not extensively deployed,
we envisaged a permanent treaty. We
also agreed to work out an interim
accord limiting certain offensive
weapons. Both agreements would be
completed simultaneously.
-The Berlin agreements were blocked
by conflicting legal positions on the
status of the city and on West Berlin's
ties to the Federal Republic of Ger-
many. Progress became possible in
July and August 1971 when all con-
cerned agreed to seek an agreement
that dealt concretely with the prac-
tical question of how to maintain
West Berlin's many links to the Fed-
eral Republic, including unimpeded
access to West Berlin by road and
rail.
These breakthroughs on major sub-
stantive issues made it possible to look
toward a summit meeting.
The SALT discussion resumed in July
1971, building on the political framework
agreed upon with the Soviet leaders. Two
agreements were signed in September—
one to improve the "hot line" between
Washington and Moscow, and the other
to reduce the likelihood of an accidental
nuclear war by exchanging information
on certain missile testing activities. The
breakthrough on Berlin led to the signing
in September of 1971 of the first part of
the Four Power Agreement, which in turn
opened the way for further negotiations
between East and West Germany on the
technical questions of access to the city.
My private communications with the
Soviet leaders had included the possibil-
ity of a meeting at the highest level. My
views on this question of a meeting had
been stated in the first weeks of my Ad-
ministration: a meeting at the summit
would only be justified if it were carefully
prepared and if there were sufficient rea-
sons to believe that it would be the most
effective way of proceeding toward solu-
tions of major questions. By the fall of
1971, it appeared we could meet these
conditions. Thus, when Foreign Minister
Gromyko visited Washington in October
369
