[44] Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
but with this advancement has also come
a new potential for endangering lives and
property and causing adverse environ-
mental effects. With additional Federal
regulations, I believe that we can mini-
mize these dangers.
MEETING OUR ENERGY NEEDS
One of the highest priorities of my Ad-
ministration during the coming year will
be a concern for energy supplies-a con-
cern underscored this winter by occasional
fuel shortages. We must face up to a stark
fact in America: we are now consuming
more energy than we produce.
A year and a half ago I sent to the
Congress the first Presidential message
ever devoted to the energy question. I
shall soon submit a new and far more com-
prehensive energy message containing
wide-ranging initiatives to ensure neces-
sary supplies of energy at acceptable
economic and environmental costs. In the
meantime, to help meet immediate needs,
I have temporarily suspended import
quotas on home heating oil east of the
Rocky Mountains.
As we work to expand our supplies of
energy, we should also recognize that we
must balance those efforts with our con-
cern to preserve our environment. In the
past, as we have sought new energy
sources, we have too often damaged or
despoiled our land. Actions to avoid such
damage will probably aggravate our
energy problems to some extent and may
lead to higher prices. But all development
and use of energy sources carry environ-
mental risks, and we must find ways to
minimize those risks while also providing
adequate supplies of energy. I am fully
confident that we can satisfy both of these
imperatives.
GOING FORWARD IN CONFIDENCE
The environmental awakening of
recent years has triggered substantial
progress in the fight to preserve and renew
the great legacies of nature. Unfortu-
nately, it has also triggered a certain
tendency to despair. Some people have
moved from complacency to the opposite
extreme of alarmism, suggesting that our
pollution problems were hopeless and pre-
dicting impending ecological disaster.
Some have suggested that we could never
reconcile environmental protection with
continued economic growth.
I reject this doomsday mentality-and
I hope the Congress will also reject it. I
believe that we can meet our environ-
mental challenges without turning our
back on progress. What we must do is to
stop the hand-wringing, roll up our
sleeves and get on with the job.
The advocates of defeatism warn us
of all that is wrong. But I believe they
underestimate this Nation's genius for
responsive adaptability and its enormous
reservoir of spirit.
I believe there is always a sensible mid-
dle ground between the Cassandras and
the Pollyannas. We must take our stand
upon that ground.
I have profound respect for the enor-
mous challenge ahead, but I have even
stronger respect for the capacity and char-
acter of the American people. Many of us
have heard the adage that the last letters
of the word, "American," say "I can." I
am confident that we can, and we will,
meet our natural resource challenges.
The White House,
February 15, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the second in a series
102
