Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 10 [112]
proposals would significantly strengthen
America's bargaining position in the com-
ing trade negotiations.
OBJECTIVES IN AGRICULTURAL TRADE
I am not requesting specific negotiat-
ing authority relating to agricultural
trade. Barriers to such trade are either
tariff or non-tariff in nature and can be
dealt with under the general authorities
I am requesting.
One of our major objectives in the com-
ing negotiations is to provide for expan-
sion in agricultural trade. The strength
of American agriculture depends on the
continued expansion of our world mar-
kets-especially for the major bulk com-
modities our farmers produce so effi-
ciently. Even as we have been moving
toward a great reliance on free market
forces here at home under the Agricul-
tural Act of 1970, so we seek to broaden
the role of market forces on the interna-
tional level by reducing and removing
barriers to trade in farm products.
I am convinced that the concerns
which all nations have for their farmers
and consumers can be met most effec-
tively if the market plays a far greater
role in determining patterns of agri-
cultural production and consumption.
Movement in this direction can do much
to help ensure adequate supplies of food
and relieve pressure on consumer prices.
PROVIDING FOR IMPORT RELIEF
As other countries agree to reduce their
trading barriers, we expect to reduce ours.
The result will be expanding trade, cre-
ating more and better jobs for the Amer-
ican people and providing them with
greater access to a wider variety of prod-
ucts from other countries.
It is true, of course, that reducing im-
port barriers has on some occasions led
to sudden surges in imports which have
had disruptive effects on the domestic
economy. It is important to note, how-
ever, that most severe problems caused by
surging imports have not been related to
the reduction of import barriers. Steps
toward a more open trading order gen-
erally have a favorable rather than an
unfavorable impact on domestic jobs.
Nevertheless, damaging import surges,
whatever their cause, should be a matter
of great concern to our people and our
Government. I believe we should have
effective instruments readily available to
help avoid serious injury from imports
and give American industries and work-
ers time to adjust to increased imports in
an orderly way. My proposed legislation
outlines new measures for achieving these
goals.
To begin with, I recommend a less re-
strictive test for invoking import restraints.
Today, restraints are authorized only
when the Tariff Commission finds that
imports are the "major cause" of serious
injury or threat thereof to a domestic in-
dustry, meaning that their impact must
be larger than that of all other causes com-
bined. Under my proposal, restraints
would be authorized when import com-
petition was the "primary cause" of such
injury, meaning that it must only be the
largest single cause. In addition, the pres-
ent requirement that injury must result
from a previous tariff concession would be
dropped.
I also recommended a new method for
determining whether imports actually are
the primary cause of serious injury to
263
