Richard Nixon, 1973
June 29 [190]
might lead to more coordinated policies
for meeting oil supply shortages should
they occur in the future.
Several of the steps which I announced
in April were in the form of legislative
proposals which will help to increase
energy supplies. They called for the
Alaskan pipeline, competitive pricing of
natural gas, licensing of deepwater ports,
streamlining of powerplant siting, and a
rational framework for controls over sur-
face mining. Only the pipeline request has
been finally acted on in committee. I
hope the Congress will now act quickly
and favorably on my other requests.
These steps are a beginning. But they
are only a beginning.
REORGANIZATION
The acquisition, distribution, and con-
sumption of energy resources have become
increasingly complex and increasingly
critical to the functioning of our economy
and our society. But the organization of
the Federal Government to meet its re-
sponsibilities for energy and other natural
resource policies has not changed to meet
the new demands. The Federal Govern-
ment cannot effectively meet its obliga-
tions in these areas under the present
organizational structures, and the time
has come to change them.
ENERGY POLICY OFFICE
Effective immediately, the duties of the
Special Energy Committee and National
Energy Office, which I set up 2 months
ago to advise and assist in the preliminary
organizational phases of the Federal re-
sponse to the energy challenge, will be
combined in an expanded Energy Policy
Office within the Executive Office of the
President. This Office will be responsible
for the formulation and coordination of
energy policies at the Presidential level.
This Office will be headed by Governor
Love, who will be an Assistant to the
President as well as Director of the
Energy Policy Office. He will spend full
time on this assignment and will report
directly to me. My Special Consultant on
energy matters, Charles DiBona, will con-
tinue in his present advisory capacity,
working within the new Office.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
Two years ago I sent to the Congress
my proposals for a sweeping reorganiza-
tion of executive departments and inde-
pendent agencies to provide an executive
branch structure more responsive to the
basic goals of public policy. One of those
proposals called for a Department of Nat-
ural Resources.
During the time these proposals have
been receiving the consideration of the
Congress, my Administration has con-
tinued to refine and improve them. It has
become increasingly obvious that reor-
ganization is imperative, and nowhere
more clearly so than in the areas of natural
resources and related energy matters.
I am therefore proposing today the
establishment of a new Cabinet-level De-
partment of Energy and Natural Re-
sources, responsible for the balanced
utilization and conservation of America's
energy and natural resources.
The Department of Energy and Natural
Resources would take charge of all of the
present activities of the Department of
the Interior, except the Office of Coal
Research and certain other energy re-
search and development programs which
625
