Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 13 [295]
if the responsibilities of the great office
that I hold should fall upon him, as has
been the case with eight Vice Presidents
in our history, we could all say, the lead-
ership of America is in good hands.
Our distinguished guests and my fellow
Americans, I proudly present to you the
man whose name I will submit to the
Congress of the United States for con-
firmation as the Vice President of the
United States, Congressman Gerald Ford
of Michigan.
Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman
Ford knows the rules, that since he now
has to be confirmed by both Houses, his
remarks will be very brief.
VICE PRESIDENT-DESIGNATE FORD. Mr.
President, I am deeply honored, and I am
extremely grateful, and I am terribly
humble, but I pledge to you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and I pledge to my colleagues in the
Congress, and I pledge to the American
people, that to the best of my ability, if
confirmed by my colleagues in the Con-
gress, that I will do my utmost, to the best
of my ability, to serve this country well
and to perform those duties that will be
my new assignment, as effectively and as
efficiently and with as much accomplish-
ment as possible.
Mr. President, with pride I have sup-
ported our country's policies, both at home
and abroad, aimed at seeking peace
worldwide and a better well-being for all
of our citizens throughout our great land,
and I will continue to work with you and
with the Congress in the further imple-
mentation of those policies in the months
and years ahead.
It seems to me that we want, in Amer-
ica, a united America. I hope I have some
assets that might be helpful in working
with the Congress in doing what I can
throughout our country to make America
a united America. I pledge to you my full
efforts, and I pledge the same to my
colleagues and to the American people.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I know that all of
you will want to meet Congressman Ford
and Mrs. Ford. We will be in the Blue
Room if you would like to come by and
say hello and congratulate them. Also
there will be refreshments, I understand,
in the State Dining Room in case some of
you did not have supper.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. His remarks
were broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television.
Earlier in the day, the President met separ-
ately with Senate Minority Leader Hugh Scott
and House Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford
to receive a report on the procedural situation
in the Congress for consideration of a nominee
for Vice President.
295 Remarks at a Meeting With the Vice President-
Designate. October 13,
STARTING immediately, the Congress-
man will receive the daily intelligence
briefings—this is what I have in my hand
here-and will participate in meetings of
the National Security Council, meetings
1973
of the Cabinet, and other meetings that
the Vice President would participate in
once he is confirmed.
Also, we are making arrangements for
Congressman Ford to have an office in the
869
