Richard Nixon, 1973
May 19 [160]
of the Marines who was buried with the
highest honors at Arlington just a few
days ago.
And Virginia today has the distinction
of having more of its Senators and Repre-
sentatives serving on the two Armed Serv-
ices Committees in Congress than any
State of this Union except one. That dele-
gation includes four members who are
with us today: Senator [Harry F.] Byrd,
Senator [William L.] Scott, Congressman
[Robert W.] Daniel, and Congressman Bill
Whitehurst.
You can see why Governor Holton al-
ways speaks with such pride of Virginia's
great tradition in the field of the Armed
Services.
Now, what does Armed Forces Day
mean? Let us think now not just in terms
of this ship, not just in terms of the men
and women who are serving here in our
Armed Forces but in terms of America
and the world, for the rulebook says that—
I speak as one who many years ago was in
the Navy. As a matter of fact, I had what
I, looking back, found was a very, rather
subordinate position. I was a lieutenant
junior grade, and if you think a lieuten-
ant junior grade is important, ask a
Navy chief, and he will tell you how unim-
portant he is.
Well, the rulebook says that the men
and women who wear the uniform of our
country are supposed to salute the Com-
mander in Chief, and of course, anyone
who is elected President of the United
States is the Commander in Chief. But
on this day, I, as your Commander in
Chief, salute you, each and every Ameri-
can who serves in our Army, our Navy,
our Air Force, our Marine Corps, and our
Coast Guard. Your courage, your stead-
fastness are the backbone of America's in-
fluence for peace around the world. And
I speak for all of America today—that is
one of the great privileges of being Presi-
dent of this country-I speak for all of
our fellow Americans when I say we owe
you, those who serve in our Armed
Forces, a debt of gratitude we can never
fully repay.
For the first time in 12 years, we can
observe Armed Forces Day with all of our
fighting forces home from Vietnam and
all of our courageous prisoners of war set
free and here, back home in America.
There was and will continue to be for
years to come much controversy about
this longest war in America's history, but
historians will record in the end that no
military organization ever took on a more
selfless task and completed it more honor-
ably than the Armed Forces of the United
States have done in the defense of 17 mil-
lion people of South Vietnam. It was an
honorable task, and they did it well, and
we owe them a debt for how well they
did it.
So today we pay a special, heartfelt
tribute to all who made this achievement
possible:
-to the more than 2 million men and
women now serving in uniform;
-to the millions of veterans who have
returned to civilian life;
-to those missing in action and those
magnificent men who "toughed it out"
in enemy prison camps; and above all,
-to the memory of those who gave
their lives for their country.
Today, we are thankful, too, for the
strengths and the sacrifices of America's
military families. And today we are re-
minded and we do remind those young
Americans who are completing their
high school or college education—and I
541
