[179] June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
to put all of our health expenditures to a
vigorous test, eliminating programs which
are ineffective or are no longer needed
because they have achieved their goal.
This was the approach I used in deter-
mining my budget requests, and I am
hopeful that the Congress will employ
this same approach in reviewing these pro-
grams during the next 12 months.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
A second bill which I have signed is
H.R. 2246, which provides for an addi-
tional year of funding for the Economic
Development Administration (EDA).
The public controversy over the Eco-
nomic Development Administration is
now many months old. This program be-
gan as an experiment in 1965 to create
permanent employment opportunities in
economically depressed areas. I am con-
vinced that this program has done little
to help the poor, and it clearly overlaps
other Federal programs.
As a result, last October I vetoed a
measure authorizing more than $1.2 bil-
lion for this effort. This year, in my new
budget, I proposed that EDA be phased
out by June 30, 1973, and that we re-
place it with more focused and consoli-
dated efforts to stimulate economic
development.
The bill which I have now signed
authorizes $430 million for the Economic
Development Administration over the
coming fiscal year, a considerable reduc-
tion compared to the legislation which I
vetoed last year.
However, even as I sign this bill, I will
continue to give vigorous support to a
major overhaul of our economic develop-
ment effort. Examples of other programs
that can replace EDA activities which
have been recently enacted or are await-
ing Congressional action are the Rural
Development Act of 1972, the Better
Communities Act, the Indian Tribal Gov-
ernment Grant Program, and the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amend-
ments of 1972. In the near future, I shall
also send to the Congress the new Re-
sponsive Governments Act which will in-
crease State and local participation in the
planning and management of the many
Federal grant programs now in existence.
I also plan to submit to the Congress a
budget amendment which would fund the
Economic Development Administration
at a level of approximately $200 million
during this transition year. While this
amount is less than the level authorized
by H.R. 2246, it is worth noting that tra-
ditionally, EDA appropriations are ap
proximately one-third of authorizations.
This reduced appropriation request is also
the maximum additional spending we can
afford while keeping within the con-
straints of our budget and providing for
an effective transition to our new
programs.
This amendment would provide ade-
quate funding for four purposes: assist-
ing communities affected by the reduc-
tion of military bases to make an orderly
transition to other economic activities:
awarding of grants for public works, plan-
ning, and technical assistance under tra-
ditional EDA operations; assisting Indian
economic development; and assisting in
providing funds for economic develop-
ment activities planned by regional com-
missions. I continue to believe the sup-
porting role in regional commission
activities must be shifted from the Fed-
eral Government to State government.
600
