Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
now provided in the four Geneva Conven-
tions on war victims, including prisoners
of war. The ICRC's proposals will be sub-
mitted to an international conference for
the adoption of new protocols to the
Geneva Conventions.
DECOLONIZATION
Much attention in the United Nations
continues to be focused on colonial issues.
We support self-determination for all
peoples. But we have made clear that in
supporting this objective we cannot con-
done recourse to violence or interference
across established frontiers. We do sup-
port proposals which encourage commu-
nication and peaceful change. But we
view with concern the efforts to give for-
mal international status to insurgent
movements that are still contesting for
territorial control. The United Nations is
an organization of established govern-
ments founded to bring parties together
and to work for peace. We cannot accept
its use as an arena for sanctifying the use
of force. It is not in the spirit of the United
Nations Charter.
INTERNATIONAL ORDER
The rule of law in a world beset by
global problems must of necessity be a
matter of priority for the United Nations.
We cannot limit armaments, exploit the
seas' riches, travel through the skies and
the seas, control narcotics trafficking, or
combat terrorism unless international
legal norms are created and universally
respected.
Despite the obvious urgency of many of
these problems, the United Nations has
failed to address some of them seriously.
On hijacking, members of the Interna-
tional Civil Air Organization continue to
balk at the prospect of the tough measures
needed to curb air piracy. The failure of
the 27th General Assembly to take effec-
tive action to combat international terror-
ism was a major disappointment.
The world community suffers when its
most respected international institution
fails to deal with elementary questions of
international order. Even so, those who
wish an orderly world must persevere in
their efforts to achieve United Nations
action to these ends. United Nations con-
ventions on narcotics and earlier hijacking
conventions are examples of what can be
done by a united world community.
THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM
Controversies in the United Nations
over questions of peace and security have
often overshadowed other ongoing activi-
ties of the organization. The United Na-
tions plays an important, if less dramatic,
role in transferring skills to the developing
nations and in dealing with a variety of
worldwide problems brought on by the
quickening pace of social and technologi-
cal change. It is well to recognize that the
United Nations is a system of interlocking
organizations and that more than nine-
tenths of its resources are devoted to ac-
tivities in the economic, social, technical,
and scientific fields.
These functions, which we have en-
couraged and continue to support, en-
compass virtually every transnational
government activity. They include pro-
moting disarmament, assuring the safety
of civil aviation, combating epidemics,
protecting the environment, checking the
illicit flow of narcotics, setting guidelines
for the orderly exploitation of seabed re-
sources, providing technical assistance to
503
