[63] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
tive job in that respect in terms of what we
have done-maybe not, in terms of what
we have said, so well-and we are going
to continue to do well, and we hope,
eventually, that our citizens will recognize
that we have done so.
RELEASE OF POW'S AND TROOP
WITHDRAWALS
[5] Q. Mr. President, could you give
us your own delineation of what really
entered into the recent agreement on the
POW return and the resumption of troop
withdrawal?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Theis [J.
William Theis, Hearst Newspapers and
Hearst Headline Service], I don't think
that any useful purpose would be served
by indicating what the content of the vari-
ous messages were which went between
the governments involved at that time.
Just let me say that Mr. Ziegler covered
that, after a consultation with me, when
he was first asked that question.ยน
As far as the POW's are concerned,
that provision and the withdrawal provi-
sion cannot be linked to anything else.
The suggestion, for example, that what
brought about the POW return was some
action on the part of the United States
or some assurance on the part of the
United States that we would do something
with regard to getting better compliance
with the cease-fire, that suggestion is com-
pletely wrong. That provision stands on
its own, too.
It is in our interests and we are doing
everything that we can to get both parties,
ยน Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler's remarks
about the release of American prisoners of war
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 193).
North and South, to comply with the
cease-fire, but as far as the POW's are
concerned, the agreement clearly provides
that in return for withdrawal, the POW's
will be returned. We expect that agree-
ment to be complied with.
We made our position known publicly
very clearly and privately very clearly.
We accomplished our goal, and now to
go into how we did it, I don't think would
be helpful.
I want to say, too, that I have noted
that in the morning press there was some
concern expressed about the 30 POW's
that are held by the PRG [Provisional
Revolutionary Government]. I am not
going to speculate about how that is to be
accomplished, except to say that we had
been assured that within 48 hours from
yesterday that the POW's held by the
North, this particular segment, and by
the PRG, would be released.
Now, where they will be released and
how is something else again, but we expect
them to be released within the time frame,
and I will not comment about what we
will do if they are not, because we expect
that they will comply.
AMNESTY
[6.] Yes, Mr. Deakin [James Deakin,
St. Louis Post-Dispatch].
Q. After your last press conference,
Senator Scott suggested to some of us that
we ask you again about the question of
amnesty for draft evaders, as opposed to
those who deserted military service after
being inducted. Have you something fur-
ther to tell us on your stand on amnesty?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think I have
made my position abundantly clear. I
realize that many people disagree with it.
I would suggest, incidentally, that if Mem-
154
