[157] May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
157 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Uruguayan Treaty on Extradition. May 18, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty on Extra-
dition and Cooperation in Penal Mat-
ters Between the United States of America
and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay,
signed at Washington on April 6, 1973. I
transmit also, for the information of the
Senate, the Report of the Secretary of
State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty significantly updates the
present extradition relations between the
United States and Uruguay and adds to
the list of extraditable offenses both nar-
cotic offenses, including those involving
psychotropic drugs, and aircraft hijack-
ing. Provision is also made for extradition
for conspiracy to commit the listed extra-
ditable offenses.
The Treaty will make a significant
contribution to the international effort to
control narcotics traffic. I recommend that
the Senate give early and favorable con-
sideration to the Treaty and give its
advice and cosent to ratification.
The White House,
May 18, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the treaty and accompany-
ing papers are printed in Senate Executive K
(93d Cong., 1st sess.).
158 Message to the Senate Transmitting an Amendment
to the United Nations Charter.
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the text of the amend-
ment to Article 61 of the Charter of the
United Nations adopted by the General
Assembly of the United Nations on De-
cember 20, 1971, and set forth in Gen-
eral Assembly Resolution 2847 (XXVI).
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report received by me
from the Department of State with
respect to the amendment.
Article 61 of the Charter relates to the
composition of the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations and the
election to membership thereon by the
May 18, 1973
General Assembly. At present the Council
is composed of 27 members as a result
of a Charter amendment adopted in 1963,
which entered into force on August 31,
1965. By the new amendment to Article
61, the Council membership would be
increased from 27 to 54. A formula for
geographic distribution of the seats on
the Council is also set forth in the General
Assembly's Resolution.
As in 1963, when the Council mem-
bership was enlarged from 18 to 27, the
Economic and Social Council must be
enlarged to take account of the growth
of the United Nations Organization, with
particular attention to the need for an
equitable distribution of membership
538
