[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
wasteful programs, programs which have
already obligated the taxpayer to pay-
ments of between $63 billion and $95 bil-
lion during the next 40 years, are not the
answer.
One of my highest domestic priorities
this year will be the development of new
policies that will provide aid to genuinely
needy families and eliminate waste.
A major housing study is now underway
within the Government, under the direc-
tion of my Counsellor for Community De-
velopment. Within the next six months,
I intend to submit to the Congress my
policy recommendations in this field,
based upon the results of that study.
TRANSPORTATION
To thrive, a community must provide
for the efficient movement of its people
and its products. Yet in recent years, the
growing separation of the city from its
suburbs and changing employment pat-
terns have made transportation more of a
community problem than a community
asset. To improve community develop-
ment we must meet the challenge of
transportation planning and provide more
flexible means for communities to meet
their transportation needs.
Without better transportation, our com-
munities will either stagnate or choke.
Four years ago we initiated programs to
renew and redirect our transportation sys-
tems. We took action to expand the ca-
pacity of our airways, to preserve and im-
prove intercity rail passenger service, to
continue the Nation's highway program
with greater emphasis on safety, and to
bring needed progress to our surface pub-
lic transportation. The Federal commit-
ment has been substantial:
-The enlarged Airport Development
Aid Program established under the Air-
port-Airways Development Act of 1970
has quadrupled Federal assistance to air-
ports to $295 million per year.
-Under the Rail Passenger Service
Act of 1970 we have begun to rejuvenate
rail service as part of a balanced trans-
portation system.
-From 1970 through 1974 we will have
invested some $23 billion in highways. In
1972 alone we committed $3.3 billion to
the Interstate system, which is now 80
percent complete. In that same year, $870
million was designated for primary and
secondary roads. Equally important, we
have emphasized safety on our highways,
both in their design and use.
-We have progressively increased the
levels of Federal funding for transporta-
tion research, development, and demon-
stration projects. This support focuses on
new transportation technology. It is de-
signed to encourage private industry to
join aggressively in the search for better
transportation.
-Concurrent with our programs to im-
prove transportation between our cities,
we have undertaken programs to develop
freeflowing corridors for people and com-
merce within our cities.
-Since 1970, when I proposed and the
Congress passed the Urban Mass Trans-
portation Assistance Act, we have com-
mitted more than 2 billion Federal dollars
to preserve and upgrade public transpor-
tation. Nationally, urban public transpor-
tation has become a billion-dollar-a-year
Federal program.
-Over the past four years, Federal dol-
lars have helped 60 American cities to help
those who depend on public systems for
transportation to jobs, hospitals, shops and
176
