Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 19 [82]
relations with both, and we trust in the
future that our aid to both can be ones
that will turn them towards peace rather
than war.
I should also say that in India's case-
while our aid there, our $83 million, is
economic-India, as you know, pur-
chases quite significant amounts of arms
from the Soviet Union, and also has an
arms capability itself. So there is no prob-
lem in terms of creating conditions which
could lead to another outbreak of war by
providing for simply keeping a commit-
ment that the United States had made for
81 St. Patrick's Day Message.
March 16, 1973
THE AMERICAN spirit reflects con-
tributions from every nation. But the
charm of Irish culture has particularly
warmed the hearts and hearths of this
land.
Common ancestry and genuine fond-
ness for the traditions of the Emerald
Isle have long joined the Nixons and the
Ryans in heartfelt appreciation of all that
is Irish.
On this St. Patrick's Day, Mrs. Nixon
the sale of spare parts and nonlethal
arms to Pakistan.
FRANCES L. LEWINE (Associated
Press). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-first news con-
ference was held at 11:22 a.m. in the Briefing
Room at the White House on Thursday,
March 15, 1973.
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the appointment of U.S.
Liaison Office Chief Bruce and Principal Dep-
uties Jenkins and Holdridge, containing ad-
ditional biographical data on the appointees.
The announcement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, p. 278).
and I join with all our fellow Americans
of Irish descent-and all those who claim
they are in celebration of one of the
happiest observances on our calendar.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On March 17, 1973, Ambassador Wil-
liam Warnock of the Irish Republic and Mrs.
Warnock called on the President at the White
House to present a St. Patrick's Day gift of
shamrocks in a silver bowl.
82 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on Aeronautics and Space Activities. March 19, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit a report of our
national progress in aeronautics and space
activities during 1972.
The Apollo program was successfully
concluded with the flights of Apollo 16
and 17. These missions were designed to
obtain maximum scientific return and
provided almost half the lunar explora-
tion time in the Apollo program. Though
it is far too early to attempt a definitive
assessment of the value of this program,
it is clear that one result will be a quan-
tum jump in both our scientific knowl-
edge and our technological expertise.
Our unmanned satellites include a va-
riety of vehicles ranging from meteoro-
logical, navigational and communication
213
