Richard Nixon, 1973
June 5 [170]
government. These accomplishments com-
prise a distinguished record of service to
our Nation.
I am pleased to know that your new
affiliation will take you back to our home
state of California, and I feel certain that
you will continue to make an important
contribution there. Despite your departure
from government, I hope we will main-
tain the same close association that has
meant so much to me throughout the
years.
Pat joins me in sending our warmest
best wishes to Marge and to you for every
success and happiness in the future.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Herbert G. Klein, Director of Com-
munications, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Klein's letter of resignation, dated
the same day and released with the President's
letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It was twenty-seven years ago when we first
met in Alhambra, and throughout the almost
three decades which now have passed, I have
had a deep sense of appreciation for your
friendship and a wholehearted admiration for
your dedication to the service of our country.
These years have seen us together at some
moments of bitter disappointment, but more
often I've been fortunate enough to be with
you at moments of triumph-to witness first
hand your execution and development of deci-
sions which have and continue to make history.
All these things make this the most difficult
letter I have written, and yet, because of per-
sonal considerations, I request that you accept
my resignation as Director of Communications
for the Executive Branch, effective July 1, 1973.
As you have known, pressure has been build-
ing for me to return to private enterprise. I
request this resignation with a continuous sense
of loyalty to you and to the principles and pro-
grams you are building for this country.
I am convinced that your leadership will
leave an indelible stamp on history, both inter-
nationally and domestically. It has been a
privilege to have had some part in assisting you.
I am very proud to have been the first Direc-
tor of Communications in United States history,
and I honestly feel that we have been able to
serve the American people well at a time when
policies necessarily are so complex that efforts
to provide more information are vital to the
Government process.
I am grateful for the full support you have
given me, which, I believe, has enabled us to
bring the White House closer to the editors,
publishers and broadcasters of the country.
We have also improved the efficiency of Gov-
ernment departments-even while decreasing
the size of their public information forces.
In these times, a President must communi-
cate with the people if he is to govern success-
fully, and the size of your victory in November
is proof of the public understanding of Presi-
dential policy.
I wish you and your wonderful family con-
tinued success in working toward your goals for
a better Nation and a peaceful world.
You can count on me to provide personal
assistance to you or our Government at any
time.
With all good wishes,
Sincerely,
HERBERT G. KLEIN
Director of Communications
for the Executive Branch
[The Honorable Richard M. Nixon, The White
House, Washington, D.C.]
573
