Richard Nixon, 1973
July 24 [215]
The second reason that it is a very
special honor to have you here today is
because of the unbelievably spectacular
progress that your country has made un-
der your leadership. I remember it 20
years ago. I saw it again when you re-
ceived Mrs. Nixon and me so graciously
just a year ago in Tehran, and there is
no area in the world in which one can
see more spectacular development-de-
velopment in which the people of the
country have benefited-than in your
country. The whole world applauds you
for the leadership you have provided to
your people in bringing economic progress
and justice to them.
The third reason will, of course, be the
major subject of our conversations today,
and that is that we welcome you here as
not only an old friend, as a progressive
leader of your own people, but as a world
statesman of the first rank. Our talks over
the years have ranged over many, many
subjects, and it is particularly important
that we meet at this time.
This is the first meeting that I will have
had with a head of government or head
of state since the meeting I had with Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev. It is significant
to note that of all the areas in the world
which pose a potential threat to peace in
the world, that Iran is in a very key, cen-
tral area.
I refer, of course, to the Mideast, to the
Persian Gulf, and to all of that area that
surrounds it. What gives us a great deal of
heart, those of us all over the world who
are interested in peace, is that you have
always stood for, and stand for now, a
policy of contributing to the forces of
peace and stability rather than to the
forces of war and destruction.
I know, therefore, that our talks will
cover the whole range of world problems,
but particularly that I will have the bene-
fit of your advice on the problems in this
critical area of the world where with re-
sponsible leadership we can avoid war
and build a new era of peace for the
people of that area who deserve it.
Certainly, I have looked forward to
these talks for a long time, and I know
that I will not be disappointed. And I
hope you will not be, by the progress that
we will make in developing those policies
which will contribute not only to peace
but to the progress and the prosperity
which your country has enjoyed, for all
of that area of the world.
So again, we welcome you today offi-
cially, but more than that, we particularly
welcome you and the Empress as good
friends and old friends. We treasure that
friendship, and from that friendship we
hope to work together toward a better
world for both of our peoples.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
the Shah of Iran was given a formal welcome
with full military honors.
The Shah responded as follows:
I am deeply honored, Mr. President, to be
once again your guest, this time alongside the
Empress, to pay our respects to the people of
America and the friendship that they have
shown toward us since the inception of official
diplomatic relations between our two coun-
tries, but also to express to you personally my
happiness to have the opportunity of talking
to you and having the wise advices that you
can always give. Because in the world that we
are living, especially in the days and years
which lie ahead, we have got to be in constant
contact in order to preserve what is really
worth preserving, for which we are working, for
which we are striving, and in our case, for
which we are ready to die.
You have mentioned graciously that our
country is making progress. That is true, as the
United States has made progress. What you
have achieved since your independence is un-
believable. We have had the privilege of flying
661
