[23] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
We want to avoid that, even though it
has been predicted by some in this coun-
try who really fear the new Europe. I do
not fear it if we talk to them and consult
at this time.
GOVERNOR CONNALLY AND THE 1976
ELECTION
[7] Mr. Deakin [James Deakin, St.
Louis Post-Dispatch].
Q. You are quoted as telling a recent
visitor that you believe that Governor
Connally will be the Republican nominee
of 1976. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had thought
we had just completed an election.
Q. Just a little foresight there.
THE PRESIDENT. Having just com-
pleted one, let me give some advice, if I
can, to all of those who may be thinking
of becoming candidates in 1976.
I have a considerable amount of ex-
perience in getting nominations and win-
ning elections and also losing them. So,
consequently, I would suggest that as far
as the Presidential candidate is con-
cerned, he is out of his mind if he allows
any activity in his behalf or participates
in any activity in his behalf, running for
the nomination before the elections of
1974 are concluded.
If I were advising people who are in-
terested in becoming and running for
President, for the nomination in either
party, I would say the best way to get
the nomination now is not to be out seek-
ing it. The best way to get it is to work
as hard as you can for the success of the
candidates of your party, be they for the
House or the Senate or Governor, and do
it in a selfless way until after 1974 and
immediately after 1974 take off and run
as fast as you can. And I have always
done that and with mixed results.
Laughter]
But as far as Governor Connally is con-
cerned, you all know my very high respect
for him. I have stated my belief that he
could handle any job that I can think
of in this country or in the world for that
matter, but I would be out of my mind
if I were to be endorsing anybody for
the Presidency at the present time when
there are a number of people who have
indicated-or whose friends have indi-
cated that they might have an interest
in the position and that is just fine.
If Governor Connally and, of course,
many have suggested that the Vice Presi-
dent would be interested-I assume that
several Governors might be interested. In
fact, one of these days, perhaps right after
the '74 elections. I will give you my list.
and it will be quite a long one because
I am not going to make my choice until
after they have been through a few
primaries.
SHOOTING OF SENATOR STENNIS
[8.] Q. Can you give us your reaction
to the shooting of Senator Stennis?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I called Mrs.
Stennis last night, as I am sure many
others of his friends did, and it is just one
of those senseless things that happens,
apparently. When she told me that all
they got was his billfold, she said it didn't
have much in it, and his Phi Beta Kappa
key and also his watch, apparently. So,
it's one of those things that happens in
our cities today fortunately not happen-
ing as much as it did previously.
The point that I would make with re-
gard to Senator Stennis and this is what
I told her is that I just hope that the
doctors did the most superb job they have
58
