[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
hope, eventually to the grand jury-and
I trust, in some way we can find a way at
least to get the substance to the American
people—they will prove these things with-
out question:
One, that I had no knowledge whatever
of the Watergate break-in before it
occurred.
Two, that I never authorized the offer
of clemency to anybody and, as a matter
of fact, turned it down whenever it was
suggested. It was not recommended by any
member of my staff, but it was, on occa-
sion, suggested as a result of news reports
that clemency might become a factor.
And third, as far as any knowledge with
regard to the payment of blackmail
money, which, as you recall, was the
charge that was made, that Mr. Hunt's
attorney had asked for $120,000 in money
to be paid to him or he would tell things
about members of the White House Staff,
not about Watergate, that might be
embarrassing.
Testimony had been given before the
Senate committee that I was told that
before the 21st of March, actually told it
on the 13th of March. I know I heard it
for the first time the 21st of March, and
I will reveal this much of the conversa-
tion-I am sure the judge wouldn't mind.
I recall very well Mr. Dean, after the
conversation began, telling me, "Mr.
President, there are some things about this
I haven't told you. I think you should
know them." And then he proceeded then
for the first time to tell me about that
money.
Now, I realize that some will wonder
about the truth of these particular state-
ments that I have made. I am going to
hand out later-I won't hand them out,
but I will have one of your executives
hand out-my May 22 statement, my Au-
gust 15 statement, and one with regard to
these two tapes. You can believe them if
you want—I can tell you it is the truth,
because I have listened to or have had
knowledge of, from someone I have con-
fidence in, as to what is in the tapes.
Q. Mr. President, Richard Tuttle,
Democrat and Chronicle, Rochester, New
York. Could you tell us your personal reac-
tion and your political reaction—and
within that word I mean your credibility
with the American people--your reaction
to the discovery that the Dean and
Mitchell tapes did not exist?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my personal
reaction was one of very great disappoint-
ment, because I wanted the evidence out,
and I knew that when there was any
indication that something didn't exist,
immediately there would be the impres-
sion that some way, either the President
or, more likely, perhaps, somebody on the
President's staff, knew there was some-
thing on those tapes that it wouldn't be
wise to get out. But let me point out
again, while I was disappointed, let me
say I would have been a lot more dis-
appointed if the tapes that had been con-
sidered important by both Mr. Cox, the
Special Prosecutor, and the Ervin com-
mittee, if any one of those had been
missing, because I should point out the
tape of September 15 when, as you recall,
has been testified that I was first in-
formed there was a coverup-that, of
course, is there.
The tape of March 1, where it has
been testified, as I pointed out in the an-
swer to the Louisville Courier-Journal,
where it has been testified that I was in-
formed then of the demands for money
for purposes of blackmail, that is avail-
950
