Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 8 [73]
the many aspects of our community de-
velopment programs.
THE BETTER COMMUNITIES ACT
In the near future, I will submit to the
Congress the Better Communities Act to
provide revenue sharing for community
development. Beginning July 1, 1974, this
act would provide $2.3 billion a year to
communities to be spent as they desire to
meet their community development needs.
In the interim period before the legisla-
tion becomes effective, funds already
available to the Department of Housing
and Urban Development will be used to
maintain and support community
development.
The Better Communities Act is in-
tended to replace inflexible and frag-
mented categorical grant-in-aid programs,
and to reduce the excessive Federal con-
trol that has been so frustrating to local
governments.
Rather than focusing and concentrat-
ing resources in a coordinated assault on
a set of problems, the categorical system
scatters these resources, and diminishes
their impact upon the most needy. Exces-
sive Federal influence also limits the va-
riety and diversity of development pro-
grams. Local officials should be able to
focus their time, their resources and their
talents on meeting local needs and pro-
ducing results, instead of trying to please
Washington with an endless torrent of
paperwork.
I first proposed such legislation in 1971,
and although the Congress failed to en-
act it, significant support was expressed in
both the Senate and the House. Since that
time, members of my Administration have
been consulting with Congressional lead-
ers, mayors, Governors, other local offi-
cials and their representatives. Many con-
structive suggestions have been received
and will be incorporated in my new legis-
lative proposal. As a result, I believe the
Better Communities Act will represent
our best hope for the future of commu-
nity development and will deserve rapid
approval by the Congress.
Among the most significant features of
the Better Communities Act are these:
-Hold-Harmless Provision: The flow
of money to cities and urban counties is
to be based on a formula reflecting com-
munity needs, as determined by objec-
tive standards. In the years immediately
following enactment, funds would be used
to assure that no city receives less money
for community development than it has
received under the categorical grant
programs.
-Assistance for Smaller Communities:
Funding is also to be provided for our
smaller communities, recognizing the vital
importance of small towns and rural com-
munities to the future of the Nation.
-The Role of State Government: State
governments have always played an im-
portant part in meeting the community
development needs of their communities.
The Act will recognize this role.
-Local Decision Making: While each
of the activities now supported by cate-
gorical grants may be continued, it would
be up to local leaders to determine how
that money will be spent.
-Minimizing Red Tape: Recipients
would be required to show the Federal
Government only that they are comply-
ing with Federal statutes in the way they
are spending their revenue sharing money.
-Elimination of Matching: Shared
revenues would not have to be matched by
local funds.
-Protection for Minorities: Under no
173
