[147] May 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
to what I said then, except to make some
comments that I think are quite appro-
priate at this time.
In the American political process, one of
the most difficult tasks of all comes when
charges are made against high officials in
an administration. That is a very great
test of an administration, and many times
in the history of our country, administra-
tions have failed to meet the test of in-
vestigating those charges that might be
embarrassing to the administration, be-
cause they were made against high officials
in an administration.
We have had such a situation. We have
been confronted with it. We are dealing
with it. And I will simply say to you
tonight that this Nation-Republicans,
Democrats, Independents, all Ameri-
cans—can have confidence in the fact that
the new nominee for Attorney General,
Elliot Richardson, and the Special Prose-
cutor that he will appoint in this case will
have the total cooperation of the executive
branch of this Government. They will get
to the bottom of this thing; they will see
to it that all of those who are guilty are
prosecuted and are brought to justice.
That is a pledge I make tonight and that
I think the American people are entitled
to.
But I would add that the place where
that should happen is in the courts of law.
Charges are these days made rather easily,
as we know, in our political process, and
there is sometimes a tendency for us to
convict the innocent in our own mind
before they have the opportunity to be
heard, before they have the opportunity,
even if charges are made, to be tried.
And let us resolve tonight that until we
hear the evidence, until those who have
been charged have had a chance to present
their case in a court of law, let's uphold
the great American tradition that an
individual, even a government official, is
innocent until he is proven guilty.
I also want to add a word with regard
to what all this is going to mean to the
next 3½ and a bit more years that we have
in office as a result of the election last
November. I can assure you that we will
get to the bottom of this very deplorable
incident. We shall do everything that we
can to develop new legislative tools which
will deal with this kind of abuse and other
abuses as practiced too often in many
campaigns by both parties over the years
But the most important thing I want to
say tonight is this: We are not going to
allow this deplorable incident to deter us
or deflect us from going forward toward
achieving the great goals that an over-
whelming majority of the American peo-
ple elected us to achieve in November of
1972.
We received the greatest popular ma-
jority in history for good reasons. The
American people had a clear choice, and
the same reasons and that same choice
exists today as did exist then. And when
we look at those goals, some of which the
Vice President has referred to so elo-
quently, when we look at those goals,
it is our responsibility at this time to go
forward now and achieve them, and that
we do intend to do. And I can assure you
that whether it is in a Cabinet meeting
that we will be having in the morning,
or whether it is a meeting with legislative
leaders which we will be having next
week, that you can be sure the business
of your Government is going forward and
we are going to make the next 4 years
better than the last 4 years, and that is
something Americans are entitled to.
524
