[166] May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
166 Message to King Hassan of Morocco Congratulating
the Organization of African Unity on Its 10th Anniversary.
May 25, 1973
Your Majesty:
To the distinguished leaders of Africa
assembling in Addis Ababa to observe the
Tenth Anniversary of the Organization
of African Unity, I extend my warm per-
sonal greetings and best wishes of the
American people on this occasion. The
United States has followed closely and
with deep admiration the accomplish-
ments of the Organization of African
Unity in promoting peace and progress
on that continent. We share your aspira-
tions for the progress and development of
Africa and for the dignity and well-being
of all African peoples. We look forward
to a continuing close relationship between
the United States and the countries of
your continent. To all member nations
and their leaders, we extend our warm
congratulations on past accomplishments
and our very best wishes for the future.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: King Hassan was President of the Or-
ganization of African Unity.
167 Remarks at the Swearing In of Elliot L. Richardson
as Attorney General.
Ladies and gentlemen:
May 25, 1973
As you know, we are gathered here
today for the purpose of swearing in Elliot
Richardson as the Attorney General of
the United States.
I was talking to the Chief Justice before
the ceremony, and he was reminding me
of the fact that it was just 4 years and
4 days ago that in this room I nominated
him as the Chief Justice of the United
States. And in a totally nonpartisan way,
I believe we should pay our respect to the
Chief Justice for those 4 years that he
has served.
There is very little I can say about
Elliot Richardson to this distinguished
assemblage, because those who are not
members of the official family are mem-
bers of his family, and I am sure that all
of them think just as highly of him as I
do and as the Senate indicated in its
overwhelming vote of approval.
I would say first that no man has held
the office of Attorney General who comes
with better qualifications, from a legal
standpoint, and also with qualifications
in the whole area of the government,
which is very important to the chief law
enforcement officer of this country.
In the whole area of government, for
example, Elliot Richardson has served-
and I first met him on those occasions-
in the Eisenhower Administration as Un-
der Secretary of HEW. In this Adminis-
tration he has been the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, the Sec-
retary of Defense, and now will be the
Attorney General. He has also been Under
Secretary of State, and I will announce
today, incidentally, that due to the fact
566
