Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 19 [305]
cooperation of the Congress and the exec-
utive branch, reemphasizes the faith of our
Nation's leadership in the ability of the
National Foundation on the Arts and the
Humanities to inspire and enhance the
fullest expression of that heritage.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 795 is Public Law 93-
133 (87 Stat. 461).
305 Statement Announcing Procedures for Providing
Information From Presidential Tape Recordings.
October 19, 1973
FOR a number of months, there has been
a strain imposed on the American people
by the aftermath of Watergate, and the in-
quiries into and court suits arising out of
that incident. Increasing apprehension
over the possibility of a constitutional con-
frontation in the tapes cases has become
especially damaging.
Our Government, like our Nation, must
remain strong and effective. What mat-
ters most, in this critical hour, is our abil-
ity to act—and to act in a way that en-
ables us to control events, not to be para-
lyzed and overwhelmed by them. At home,
the Watergate issue has taken on overtones
of a partisan political contest. Concur-
rently, there are those in the international
community who may be tempted by our
Watergate-related difficulties at home to
misread America's unity and resolve in
meeting the challenges we confront
abroad.
I have concluded that it is necessary
to take decisive actions that will avoid
any possibility of a constitutional crisis and
that will lay the groundwork upon which
we can assure unity of purpose at home
and end the temptation abroad to test
our resolve.
It is with this awareness that I have
considered the decision of the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia. I
am confident that the dissenting opinions,
which are in accord with what until now
·
has always been regarded as the law,
would be sustained upon review by the
Supreme Court. I have concluded, how-
ever, that it is not in the national interest
to leave this matter unresolved for the
period that might be required for a re-
view by the highest court.
Throughout this week, the Attorney
General, Elliot Richardson, at my in-
stance, has been holding discussions with
Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox, look-
ing to the possibility of a compromise that
would avoid the necessity of Supreme
Court review. With the greatest reluc-
tance, I have concluded that in this one
instance, I must permit a breach in the
confidentiality that is so necessary to the
conduct of the Presidency. Accordingly,
the Attorney General made what he
regarded as a reasonable proposal for com-
promise and one that goes beyond what
any President in history has offered. It
was a proposal that would comply with
the spirit of the decision of the court of
appeals. It would have allowed justice to
proceed undiverted, while maintaining
the principle of an independent executive
branch. It would have given the Special
Prosecutor the information he claims he
needs for use in the grand jury. It would
also have resolved any lingering thought
that the President himself might have
been involved in a Watergate coverup.
The proposal was that, as quickly as
887
