[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
sales serve our interests and whether they
promote or weaken our cooperation with
Latin America. I believe our unilateral
efforts to restrict arms sales have helped
contribute to the rise of nationalist feel-
ings and to the growing resentment
against remnants of U.S. paternalism. The
irritation thus aroused helps explain at
least some of our problems in other mat-
ters. I urge the Congress to take a hard
look at this problem and to take steps to
rectify past errors. For I think we have
been hurting ourselves more than anyone
else by insisting on such limitations, and
harming our relations with Latin America
in the process.
I noted earlier the problem of modern-
izing the machinery of cooperation and
consultation in the inter-American sys-
tem. This process has now begun. We look
forward to working with Latin America
to make the inter-American system more
responsive to modern needs. This will
require imagination and initiative from
all concerned. It also calls for a hard-
headed assessment of existing institutions.
Are they effective? Are they doing what
is most needed? Are they accurately de-
fining the most urgent needs? In pre-
scribing actions, do they take into full
account the material, political, and psy-
chological limitations under which all
governments must function? I have in-
structed my advisors to give this matter
close attention in the months ahead, and
I feel confident that other heads of gov-
ernment will do the same. By focusing on
the many areas in which the best interests
of Latin America and the United States
converge, we can begin a new and promis-
ing phase of hemispheric cooperation.
Over the next four years, the United
States will be heavily engaged in giving
substance to the new world order that
now is taking shape. High on the agenda
will be problems of world trade and of
strengthening the international monetary
system. These matters will be of special
concern to Latin America as it continues
to expand its exports outside the hemis-
phere. Because we recognized this interest,
we strongly supported the inclusion of
three Latin American governments in the
Committee of Twenty that is considering
monetary reform. As we move into this
period of intensive trade and monetary
negotiations, it will be to our mutual
advantage if the United States and neigh-
boring governments work closely together
on these issues. We have many shared in-
terests in assuring an expansion of world
trade and in preventing the rise of re-
strictive trading blocs which would inhibit
the growth of U.S. and Latin American
commerce. We therefore plan to under-
take intensive consultation with Latin
American governments and representa-
tives in the OAS and its organs, the
Inter-American Development Bank, the
International Monetary Fund, GATT,
and other appropriate bodies. The process
of hemispheric cooperation can be
strengthened as we confront these diffi-
cult issues together.
Over the next four years, we will also
continue our assistance efforts through
bilateral and multilateral channels-to
help improve the quality of life of all the
people of this hemisphere.
As we move toward the end of our first
200 years as a nation-and toward the
end of a troubled century-we face many
exciting challenges. They will require the
best that is in us. But we now have a
framework for peaceful cooperation on
which to build. And as we build, the lives
and health and happiness of the hundreds
of millions of people living in Latin
444
