Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 2 [28]
and now the European grouping in the Eu-
ropean Community.
And so, we are living in a world in which
after 25 years, after the Second World War,
the whole pattern of power relationships and
relationships of country, our own internal
domestic structure and social organization are
changing more rapidly than ever before, and
what is needed, if I may say so, is the fore-
sight which has been shown by you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and by your Administration.
So we live-perhaps I need hardly say—in a
very exciting world. It is still somewhat slow
to move when one wants to bring about delib-
erate change, but nevertheless, this is a path
on which we have now set out in Europe, and
we know that we have the support of all our
friends in the United States.
So, tonight is a very pleasant occasion for us,
for all of my colleagues here. It is very pleasant
to meet so many friends, and if perhaps as you
were introduced to me, I detected perhaps a
slight-I won't say bias-but a slight weighti-
ness towards California, perhaps this is some-
thing which I understand. But it is very agree-
able to meet so many of you and to find here
others who have been friends of very longstand-
ing, and to thank you, Mr. President, and your
wife, for the always very warm welcome which
you give to us British.
My predecessors have loved coming here.
Some of them were unwise enough not to come
before you took it over. But this is something
which in '76 we are all due to celebrate
together.
Our talks which we have had have been not
only enjoyable, if I may say so, but in our usual
way, frank and intimate and wide-ranging,
covering everything about which we like to
discuss together. And for us it is an invaluable
experience.
We now come as a member of the Commun-
ity. It makes no difference to what I once de-
scribed as our natural relationship, and our
friends in the Community recognize this as
such.
And so now, the path is together, the Com-
munity and the United States, and I would
ask you all to rise and drink to the health of
the President.
On the following day, the President and Mrs.
Nixon attended a luncheon at the British Em-
bassy in honor of Prime Minister Heath and
Foreign Secretary Sir Alec Douglas-Home.
Later in the day, the President and the Prime
Minister held further discussions, followed by
dinner, at Camp David, Md.
28 Remarks at the Swearing In of 20 Cabinet and
Sub-Cabinet Officials. February 2, 1973
Mr. Chief Justice, the Secretary of State,
and all of our distinguished guests:
This is a ceremony which is described
as a mass swearing-in of members of the
Cabinet and members of the sub-Cabinet
as well. When I saw the number of peo-
ple the Chief Justice will be swearing in
this morning, I wondered if there will be
any room for anybody else. We are glad,
however, that some members of the
families could be here, and other guests,
on this very special occasion.
I have already indicated some views
with regard to the people that will be
sworn in this morning, and I will not
delay this rather long list by any extended
remarks, except to say this:
In talking to the Prime Minister last
night, we were reminiscing a bit about the
history of British cabinets and the fact
that in World War I and World War II,
two of the most distinguished cabinets in
the parliamentary system were set up.
They were called war cabinets. They drew
from all sections of the nation. They
drew from all political elements and po-
litical parties in Britain. They were cab-
inets under Lloyd George in World
71
