[178] June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
tonight that, not only in this room but
across this country, regardless of political
party, regardless of whatever the orga-
nization may be, the overwhelming num-
ber of Americans support the objective of
Soviet-American friendship.
Now, I am told that in the Ukraine,
where we were so very well received on
our visit to Kiev last year, and where our
guest of honor this evening lived as a
young man, there is a proverb which says,
"Praise the day in the evening."
I take this bit of advice as my text this
evening for a few reflections on the first
day of the very important week of meet-
ings and also on the first year of a historic
new departure in the relations between
the United States and the Soviet Union.
The results of our discussions today
allow us to praise, indeed, our day today.
We have resumed the talks that ended
just over a year ago. We have resumed
those talks on a new foundation of sig-
nificant accomplishments in reshaping
relations between our two peoples and be-
tween our two countries. Our common
starting point was the document that you,
Mr. Brezhnev, and I signed on May 29,
1972, in which we agreed on basic prin-
ciples of our relations and the agreements
to limit strategic weapons. On this basis,
a year ago, we set a course toward a more
constructive and mutually beneficial
relationship.
We have been able to embark on this
course because we have recognized certain
fundamental factors. We have recognized
that despite the differences in our ideology
and our social systems, we can develop
normal relations. We have agreed that in
the nuclear age, there is no alternative to
a policy of peace for any nation. We have
recognized that we have special responsi-
bilities to work for the removal of the
danger of war, and of nuclear war in par-
ticular. We have accepted the great task
of limiting strategic arms. We have recog-
nized that our responsibilities include the
scrupulous respect for the rights of all
countries, large or small.
Today, in the discussions we have had,
we have reconfirmed these principles. We
have laid the groundwork for a significant
improvement in our relations that will
result from the discussions and agree-
ments undertaken this week.
We receive you and your colleagues
tonight and for this week with the firm
intention of building on our past successes.
A year ago, when I reported to the Con-
gress upon my return from the Soviet
Union, I described the principles we had
agreed to as a roadmap-a map which
would be useful only if both our two coun-
tries followed it faithfully. Tonight, look-
ing back over the first 12 months of our
journey along the route which that map
marks out, I believe there is good reason
to be encouraged. Now we have another
profound opportunity to advance along
this course that we set for ourselves in
Moscow a year ago.
It is America's hope that the coming
days of our meetings will carry forward
the promising start that we have made
on this first day.
Our two peoples want peace. We have
a special responsibility to insure that our
relations-relations between the two
strongest countries in the world--are di-
rected firmly toward world peace.
Our success will come to be measured
not only in years but in decades and in
generations and probably centuries.
Mr. General Secretary, many American
Presidents and many very distinguished
foreign leaders over a period of 180 years
have dined together in this room, and they
596
