[361] Dec. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
American judicial process and a measure
which cannot fail to weaken that system.
Nevertheless, I recognize that the Con-
gress and the public would place an inter-
pretation upon a veto which would be
entirely contrary to my reasons for veto-
ing it. Therefore, I cannot give the sanc-
tion of the executive branch to this bad
legislation by signing it into law; neither,
in the present circumstances, will I veto it.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2641, which became law
without the President's signature on Decem-
ber 18, 1973, is Public Law 93-190 (87 Stat.
736).
362 Statement About an Arab Terrorist Attack at
Leonardo da Vinci Airport, Fiumicino, Italy.
December 18, 1973
THE Government and people of the
United States are appalled by the tragedy
which began yesterday with the heavy loss
of innocent lives at the Rome airport, a
tragedy which is not yet ended. Our deep
regrets and condolences go to the families
of the victims of all nationalities.
This new outrage only underlines the
urgent necessity to accelerate improve-
ments in international civil aviation secu-
rity measures and to find international
agreement on prosecution of offenders
such as those who committed this vicious
crime. Terrorists must be made to under-
stand that senseless violence against inno-
cent bystanders, including helpless
women and children in this instance, will
not be tolerated by people and govern-
ments who wish to live in peace and with-
in the law. Governments must resist ter-
rorists' demands since appeasement will
not put an end to this international
scourge. The United States Government
will continue to provide leadership and all
possible assistance in this humanitarian
endeavor.
The United States Government de-
plores incidents such as this at any time
and particularly when a peaceful settle-
ment of the Middle East question is being
sought by many peace-loving govern-
ments and individuals. The perpetrators
of such atrocities can only delay the day
when peace and justice may return to the
Middle East.
NOTE: On Monday, December 17, 1973, five
Arab terrorists attacked a Pan American World
Airways plane at the airport, killing 32 persons.
The terrorists then hijacked a Lufthansa Ger-
man Airlines plane, forcing it to fly to Athens,
Greece, where they released the body of a slain
hostage. On Tuesday, December 18, the plane
flew to Damascus, Syria, and then on to Ku-
wait, where the remaining hostages were re-
leased and the hijackers surrendered.
363 Letter Accepting the Resignation of Melvin R. Laird
as Counsellor to the President for Domestic Affairs.
December 19, 1973
Dear Mel:
It is with deepest personal regret that I
accept your resignation as Counsellor for
Domestic Affairs, effective February 1,
1974. At the same time, I greatly appre-
ciate the fact that you have agreed to
1016
