[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
lethal equipment and of spare parts for
equipment previously supplied by the
United States. There is no change in our
purpose. We are not participating in an
arms race in the subcontinent.
Bangladesh. Bangladesh emerged from
the 1971 crisis with a surge of enthusiasm,
an unpredictable political situation, and a
shattered economy. Its leaders faced the
formidable tasks of restoring civil peace
and harnessing national energies for build-
ing the political and administrative or-
ganization for a new state, while meeting
the emergency and long-term human and
development needs of what is now one of
the world's most populous-and poorest--
nations.
While the United States deplored the
fact that military solutions were resorted
to in 1971, we did not dispute the aspira-
tions of the people of East Bengal for
autonomy. My Foreign Policy Report last
year described our efforts in 1971 to pro-
mote a peaceful political resolution of the
crisis. We opposed not independence, but
the outbreak of international war.
Throughout the crisis year of 1971, the
United States provided two-thirds of the
world's relief to East Bengal, and sup-
ported the administration of that relief
effort by international authorities. Once
the issue was settled by the fact of inde-
pendence, our principal interest was in the
rehabilitation and stability of the new
state. Our relief effort continued even in
the absence of diplomatic relations. The
United States formally recognized Ban-
gladesh in April 1972, and established
diplomatic relations in May.
Since January 1972, first under United
Nations auspices and since May also
bilaterally, the United States has con-
tributed over a third of a billion dollars to
relief and rehabilitation in Bangladesh.
The mobilized efforts and resources of the
world forestalled a major famine, and the
United States provided more than any
other nation. We provided $144 million
in PL-480 food and grants for food dis-
tribution; $21 million in grants to Ameri-
can voluntary agencies to aid in the re-
settlement of thousands of Bengalee fam-
ilies; a $35 million grant to the UN Relief
Operation Dacca, mainly for food dis-
tribution; and $145 million in bilateral
grants to the Bangladesh Government for
essential commodities and to restore
transportation services, power stations,
hospitals, and schools, for the rehabilita-
tion of the economy.
The political and economic progress of
the new nation is an enormous challenge
to its leaders. Unemployment, inflation,
and commodity shortages remained seri-
ous in 1972. Civil disorders continued. The
Bangladesh Government in 1972 was able
to begin effective rehabilitation programs
and to begin considering its pressing longer
term development needs in cooperation
with friendly nations and international
lending institutions. We are particularly
encouraged by its achievement of a new
constitution, a new parliament, and a
strong electoral mandate for the leader-
ship of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Our
interest in Bangladesh is in its stability-
lest turmoil there affect other nations--
and in its genuine non-alignment and
peaceful policies. Instability anywhere in
the subcontinent is an invitation to inter-
ference from outside.
Bangladesh's success in meeting this
challenge will be a most important deter-
minant of the future of peace in South
Asia in the years to come.
India. India emerged from the 1971
456
