Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 3 [345]
help with our hearts, and we will do more,
we can assure you, Mr. Ambassador and
all your colleagues.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:14 p.m. in
the Sheraton Hall of the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
In his opening words, he referred to Ambas-
sador Samuel Edward Peal of Liberia, dean
of the African diplomatic corps. Mrs. Ann Wil-
loughby was the general chairman of the SOS
[Six of Sahara] Desert Ball.
The proceeds from the ball were donated to
the six drought-stricken West African nations
of Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and
Upper Volta.
344 Statement on the Death of David Ben-Gurion.
December 1, 1973
IT WAS with the deepest sorrow that I
learned of the death of David Ben-
Gurion.
With courage, love, and determina-
tion, David Ben-Gurion worked to estab-
lish the modern State of Israel. As we
move forward in the struggle for justice
and peace, we take from the example
of his life increased conviction that cause
will triumph.
The people of America join with the
people of Israel in mourning the passing
of a gallant man. As we shared his ideals
and hopes, not only for Israel but for all
mankind, so we share in their loss.
NOTE: Mr. Ben-Gurion, 87, died in Tel Aviv,
Israel.
He was the first Prime Minister of the
modern State of Israel, serving from 1948 to
1953 and from 1955 to 1963.
Secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz repre-
sented the President at the funeral services in
Jerusalem on Monday, December 3, 1973.
Ceremony for Admiral
December 3, 1973
345 Remarks at a Promotion
Hyman G. Rickover.
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you all know, we are gathered here
for the purpose of conferring the four-
star rank on Admiral Rickover.
There are so many things that have
been said and written about him that
there is little that I can add except that
from a personal sense, I value my getting
to know him well during my trip to the
Soviet Union in 1959 and, on our return,
our visit to Poland, which he remembers,
as I do, as a very special occasion.
He, of course, will be remembered not
just for this ceremony-we have lots of
four-star Admirals, haven't we, Admi-
ral [Thomas H.] Moorer, Admiral [Elmo
R.] Zumwalt-but he will be remembered
because he leaves as a monument not only
the fact that there are now more ships
and a stronger Navy, but that superb
breakthrough in technology-Polaris,
Poseidon, Trident. No one can ever speak
of these breakthroughs without thinking
of Admiral Rickover.
I don't mean to suggest by that that he
is a man who is without controversy. He
speaks his mind. Sometimes he has rivals
who disagree with him; sometimes they
are right, and he is the first to admit that
sometimes he might be wrong. But the
987
