[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
these aspirations is a sense of secu-
rity and a lessening of tensions be-
tween nations on the subcontinent.
Each nation must respect the integ-
rity of the other, and each must have
the confidence that it can maintain
its integrity and choose its future
without fear of pressure or domi-
nance from outside.
-The relations between the countries
of South Asia and countries outside
the region must be consistent with
the peace and independence of the
subcontinent and the peace of the
world. If any outside power acquires
an exclusive position in an area of
this mass and potential, others will
be forced to respond. The major
powers all have important relation-
ships there. No South Asian interest
is served if those relationships are
embroiled in local tensions.
The United States will support, as we
can, South Asian efforts to address this
agenda.
First, the United States will contribute,
where asked and where possible, to meet-
ing human needs and to the process of
development. We do this out of the tra-
ditional humanitarian concern of the
American people, and out of a common
interest in supporting the effectiveness and
stability of institutions. Where our eco-
nomic assistance does not serve mutual in-
terests, it should not be provided. Where
it does, ways must be found to assure that
the form of aid is consistent with the dig-
nity of both the donor and the recipient.
The donor must not expect special in-
fluence in return; the recipient must ac-
knowledge a mutuality of interest, for
only in a relationship of acknowledged
common purpose are assistance programs
sustainable.
Second, United States policies globally
and regionally will support the independ-
ence of South Asian nations. Within the
region, we shall encourage accommoda-
tion and help to promote conditions of
security and stability. We see no reason
why we cannot have bilateral ties with
each country in South Asia consistent with
its own aspirations and ours, and not di-
rected against any other nation. We shall
gear our relations with other major
powers outside the region to encourage
policies of restraint and noninterference.
This is our responsibility as a great power,
and should be theirs.
Third, we shall seek to assure that the
concerns of all South Asians are heard in
world councils on the issues of global
peace and on all issues that affect them.
This is not only for their benefit; it is for
the general interest in building economic
and political relations globally that all
have a stake in preserving. As I wrote in
my Foreign Policy Report in 1971: "More
than ever before in the period since World
War II, foreign policy must become the
concern of many rather than few. There
cannot be a structure of peace unless other
nations help to fashion it." It is in the
world interest that South Asia make a pos-
itive contribution.
I hope to see South Asia become a
region of peace instead of crisis, and a
force for peace in the world.
AFRICA
The birth of Africa's new nations was
one of the dramatic features of the post-
war period. The assertion of black nation-
hood in Africa coincided with a new af-
firmation of black dignity in America,
creating a special bond of sympathy be-
tween the United States and the new
460
