Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 4 [348]
dents at that time; it was a discussion between
two statesmen who could talk frankly and
openly.
It appears that sometimes, from time to time,
it may be necessary and useful, too, that people
should talk not only in their official capacities,
not only as political people, but as people, just
as people.
You have subsequently visited Romania as
the first President of the United States to visit
that country, and you were welcomed there as
the Romanian people know how to welcome
their friends, those who wish and do respect
their independence and their right to a free life.
We met again in 1970 in the United States,
at the White House, and now again in '73 in
the United States here at the White House
again.
We have, indeed, talked about many ques-
tions, including some, so to say, more phil-
osophical. Mostly, we talked, however, about
the problems which were a source of concern
to mankind at that time.
It was then that we talked about the de-
velopment of cooperation between our two
countries, about the peace in Vietnam and in
the Middle East, and about establishing rela-
tions among states on a new basis. We are able
to note today with great satisfaction that quite
a number of problems have found a solution.
In Vietnam a peace agreement has been
arrived at, although still more efforts will have
to be made in order to secure a lasting peace
in that area.
Direct contacts and relations have been
established between the People's Republic of
China and the United States as a result of
the visit you, Mr. President, paid to China.
A number of agreements have been con-
cluded with the Soviet Union as a result of
your visit, sir, to the Soviet Union, and of the
visit paid by the General Secretary of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Mr.
Brezhnev, to the United States.
No doubt all this has had, and is still having,
an important role on the entire development of
international affairs. But the picture will not
be complete if we fail to talk about the fact
that other changes have also occurred in the
world.
An ever-increasing number of nations is as-
serting more powerfully their words in inter-
national affairs and their desire to independent
development, and they are playing an ever
more active role in international life. Of course,
the big countries, as the United States is, and
other big countries as well, have an important
part to play in international affairs, but I will
have to say on this occasion again, in all frank-
ness, that these countries alone are not in a
position to totally insure a new course towards
détente and a new course towards a better
world and a world with more justice.
The establishment of a new policy in the
world, a policy based on equal rights and mu-
tual respect, can only be the result of the united
action of all states and of all nations. This is
like on a national level in which a real policy
of social justice can only be the result of the
united effort of the entire people.
You have mentioned, Mr. President, the de-
sire of the United States to act towards build-
ing new relations. No doubt, in everything that
has been done to settle a great number of prob-
lems we have mentioned before, the United
States has made its contribution. There is no
secret to anyone today that it is precisely due
to the fact that the President of the United
States, you, sir, has taken action in this par-
ticular direction and made possible these
results.
But still more problems await a settlement,
and without doubt more efforts, and sustained
efforts too, will have to be made in this partic-
ular direction, having in mind the need to
insure cooperation among nations based on
equal rights, equal rights irrespective of size
or of social system.
During our talks today, we have reached a
whole area of understanding, and some agree-
ments for the further cooperation between our
two countries have been signed today.
We would like to see the relations between
Romania and the United States, between two
countries having different social systems, two
countries which are different in size, as one can
easily see, we wish that these relations should
really become an example of the way in which
two countries can cooperate, based on the prin-
ciple of equal rights and mutual respect.
We would like to be able to enable history to
say that under difficult conditions two nations,
a big one and a small one, were able to cooper-
ate in such a way as to contribute towards
establishing international relations on a better
basis, on a basis of more justice.
995
