[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
demonstrates the need for more effective
and balanced adjustment machinery. Ob-
viously no nation can fully control its
balance of payments. The action or in-
action of one country affects the domestic
and international economic situations of
others. Nations naturally want as much
control as possible over their economic
policy to meet the social and economic
needs of their citizens. But failure to ac-
commodate the interests of others weakens
the world economy, to the disadvantage
of all. Our proposals would give each
nation maximum discretion in choosing
ways to adjust its payments imbalance,
but would give the international com-
munity the means to ensure effective
adjustment.
We believe governments should employ
a variety of methods to achieve balance
of payments adjustment. They should
continue to use fiscal and monetary policy
that fits their circumstances. Beyond this,
they should have more latitude to adjust
the international price of their currency
when they face a payments imbalance.
For countries choosing to maintain set par
values for their currencies, greater flexi-
bility could be achieved by allowing a
"band" of permissible exchange rate fluc-
tuation around parity wider than that
under Bretton Woods. Under agreed con-
ditions, countries might sometimes seek
adjustment by a transitional float to a new
par value, by a float on an indefinite
basis, or by a move directly to a new set
rate. All three techniques have been used
in recent realignments.
Countries in surplus should also use
trade and investment liberalization to con-
tribute to adjustment. In exceptional cir-
cumstances, temporary trade restrictions
may be an appropriate supplementary
adjustment action for deficit countries. If
imports are to be restrained for this pur-
pose, it should be by barriers such as a
surcharge rather than by quotas. Surplus
countries also can contribute importantly
to adjustment by increasing the amount
of foreign aid which they give without
requiring purchases from them.
We believe that criteria should be es-
tablished which will identify when an
adjustment is needed. The need should
be demonstrated before an imbalance be-
comes so great that the adjustment to
correct it would pose serious difficulties
either domestically or internationally for
the nation involved. These criteria should
apply even-handedly to surplus and deficit
nations alike. In our view the dispropor-
tionate gain or loss in a country's reserves
should be the primary indicator that bal-
ance of payments adjustment is needed.
If in a particular case a country believed
the reserve indicator to be misleading and
the adjustment inappropriate, a multi-
lateral review could help determine the
proper action. But if that review did not
override the indicator and if the country
did not take action, the international com-
munity should apply pressures and in-
ducements to bring it about.
Recent Events. Repeated crises over re-
cent years have clearly demonstrated the
need for closer international cooperation
to speed progress toward monetary reform
and improved payments equilibrium. In
February and March of 1973. the United
States and several other countries jointly
acted to deal with the latest in a series of
major crises. The high degree of inter-
national cooperation that marked the han-
dling of these critical monetary issues can
produce the fundamental reforms the sys-
tem requires. We hope the outlines of a
new approach can be agreed upon at the
International Monetary Fund meeting in
470
