Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
energy challenge which every American
can help to meet, and I call upon every
American to do his or her part.
RESEARCH AND Development
If we are to be certain that the forward
thrust of our economy will not be ham-
pered by insufficient energy supplies or
by energy supplies that are prohibitively
expensive, then we must not continue to
be dependent on conventional forms of
energy. We must instead make every use-
ful effort through research and develop-
ment to provide both alternative sources
of energy and new technologies for pro-
ducing and utilizing this energy.
For the short-term future, our research
and development strategy will provide
technologies to extract and utilize our
existing fossil fuels in a manner most com-
patible with a healthy environment.
In the longer run, from 1985 to the
beginning of the next century, we will
have more sophisticated development of
our fossil fuel resources and on the full
development of the Liquid Metal Fast
Breeder Reactor. Our efforts for the dis-
tant future center on the development of
technologies--such as nuclear fusion and
solar power-that can provide us with a
virtually limitless supply of clean energy.
In my 1971 Energy Special Message to
the Congress I outlined a broadly based
research and development program. I
proposed the expansion of cooperative
Government-industry efforts to develop
the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor,
coal gasification, and stack gas cleaning
systems at the demonstration level. These
programs are all progressing well.
My budget for fiscal year 1974 pro-
vides for an increase in energy research
and development funding of 20 percent
over the level of 1973.
My 1974 budget provides for creation
of a new central energy fund in the In-
terior Department to provide additional
money for non-nuclear research and de-
velopment, with the greatest part desig-
nated for coal research. This central fund
is designed to give us the flexibility we
need for rapid exploitation of new, espe-
cially promising energy technologies with
near-term payoffs.
One of the most promising programs
that will be receiving increased funding
in fiscal year 1974 is the solvent refined
coal process which will produce low-ash,
low-sulphur fuels from coal. Altogether,
coal research and development and pro-
posed funding is increased by 27 percent.
In addition to increased funding for
the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor, I
am asking for greater research and de-
velopment on reactor safety and radio-
active waste disposal, and the production
of nuclear fuel.
The waters of the world contain poten-
tial fuel-in the form of a special isotope
of hydrogen-sufficient to power fusion
reactors for thousands of years. Scien-
tists at the Atomic Energy Commission
now predict with increasing confidence
that we
can demonstrate laboratory
feasibility of controlled thermonuclear
fusion by magnetic confinement in the
near future. We have also advanced to
the point where some scientists believe
the feasibility of laser fusion could be
demonstrated within the next several
years. I have proposed in my 1974 budget
a 35 percent increase in funding for our
total fusion research and development
315
