Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
tilities. And we are strengthening part-
nerships.
The specific events or policies, how-
ever important, reflect a more profound
enterprise. We are seeking the philosophi-
cal, as well as the practical, reorientation
of our foreign policy. This is the primary
challenge of a radically different world.
If America is to provide the leadership
that only it can, Americans must identify
with new visions and purposes.
As we look toward this nation's two
hundredth birthday, we shall continue our
efforts with the people and the Con-
gress to create this new consensus.
In the transition from the bipolar
world of American predominance to the
multipolar world of shared responsibilities,
certain themes need emphasis. They indi-
cate not only what our approach is, but
what it is not.
We seek a stable structure, not a classi-
cal balance of power. Undeniably, na-
tional security must rest upon a certain
equilibrium between potential adver-
saries. The United States cannot entrust
its destiny entirely, or even largely, to the
goodwill of others. Neither can we expect
other countries so to mortgage their fu-
ture. Solid security involves external re-
straints on potential opponents as well
as self-restraint.
Thus a certain balance of power is in-
herent in any international system and
has its place in the one we envision. But
it is not the overriding concept of our
foreign policy. First of all, our approach
reflects the realities of the nuclear age.
The classical concept of balance of power
included continual maneuvering for mar-
ginal advantages over others. In the nu-
clear era this is both unrealistic and dan-
gerous. It is unrealistic because when both
sides possess such enormous power, small
additional increments cannot be trans-
lated into tangible advantage or even
usable political strength. And it is dan-
gerous because attempts to seek tactical
gains might lead to confrontation which
could be catastrophic.
Secondly, our approach includes the
element of consensus. All nations, adver-
saries and friends alike, must have a stake
in preserving the international system.
They must feel that their principles are
being respected and their national inter-
ests secured. They must, in short, see posi-
tive incentive for keeping the peace, not
just the dangers of breaking it. If countries
believe global arrangements threaten their
vital concerns, they will challenge them.
If the international environment meets
their vital concerns, they will work to
maintain it. Peace requires mutual ac-
commodation as well as mutual restraint.
Negotiation with adversaries does not
alter our more fundamental ties with
friends. We have made a concerted effort
to move from confrontation to negotia-
tion. We have done well. At the same time,
our determination to reduce divisions has
not eroded distinctions between friends
and adversaries. Our alliances remain the
cornerstones of our foreign policy. They
reflect shared values and purposes. They
involve major economic interests. They
provide the secure foundation on which to
base negotiations.
Although their forms must be adapted
to new conditions, these ties are enduring.
We have no intention of sacrificing them
in efforts to engage adversaries in the
shaping of peace. Indeed such efforts can-
not succeed, nor can they have lasting
meaning, without the bonds of traditional
friendships. There is no higher objective
than the strengthening of our partner-
ships.
517
