Richard Nixon, 1973
July 23 [211]
and we want all of you to work that
way, too.
Another bit of advice, too, that I am
not going to take-oh, it really isn't ad-
vice. I was rather amused by some very
well-intentioned people who thought that
perhaps the burdens of the office, you
know, some of the rather rough assaults
that any man in this office gets from time
to time, brings on an illness and that after
going through such an illness, that I might
get so tired that I would consider either
slowing down or even, some suggested,
resigning.
Well, now, just so we set that to rest,
I am going to use a phrase that my Ohio
father used to use. Any suggestion that
this President is ever going to slow down
while he is President or is ever going to
leave his office until he continues to do the
job and finishes the job he was elected to
do, anyone who suggests that, that is just
plain poppycock. We are going to stay
on this job until we get the job done.
Because after all, you see, when we put
all of the events that we read about, the
things we see on television in perspective,
and then we think of the ages, we think
of the world-and not just our own little
world-we think of the Nation-and not
only our little part of that Nation-we
realize that here in this office is where
the great decisions are going to be made
that are going to determine whether we
have peace in this world for years to come.
We have made such great strides toward
that goal.
It is going to determine whether there
is a chance that this Nation can have
a prosperity without war and without in-
flation, something we have not had since
President Eisenhower was President, and
we are making progress toward that goal.
It is going to determine whether or not
this Nation is going to be on a course that
we all worked for, a course in which,
rather than having the rate of crime esca-
lating in this Nation, the use of dangerous
drugs destroying our young people, that
we win those battles which we have
launched and carried on. It is going to
determine whether programs we have to
provide fair and better opportunity for
all Americans are going to have a chance,
whether they are carried forward.
There are these and other great causes
that we were elected overwhelmingly to
carry forward in November of 1972. And
what we were elected to do, we are going
to do, and let others wallow in Watergate,
we are going to do our job.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:42 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
2II
Letter Responding to the Senate Select Committee
on Presidential Campaign Activities Request for Access
to Presidential Tape Recordings. July 23, 1973
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I have considered your request that I
permit the Committee to have access to
tapes of my private conversations with a
number of my closest aides. I have con-
cluded that the principles stated in my
letter to you of July 6th preclude me
from complying with that request, and I
shall not do so. Indeed the special nature
of tape recordings of private conversa-
657
