Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
that I think, too, that as all the facts come
out, that—and when they have an op-
portunity to have their case heard in court
and not simply to be tried before a com-
mittee and tried in the press and tried
in television--they will be exonerated.
FUNDS FOR THE WATERGATE DEFENDANTS
[14.] Mr. Horner [Garnett D. Horner,
Washington Star-News].
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us your
recollection of what you told John Dean
on March 21 on the subject of raising
funds for the Watergate defendants?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly. Mr. Halde-
man has testified to that, and his state-
ment is accurate. Basically, what Mr.
Dean was concerned about on March 21
was not so much the raising of money
for the defendants, but the raising of
money for the defendants for the purpose
of keeping them still-in other words, so-
called hush money. The one would be
legal-in other words, raising a defense
fund for any group, any individual, as you
know, is perfectly legal, and it is done all
the time. But if you raise funds for the
purpose of keeping an individual frcin
talking, that is obstruction of justice.
Mr. Dean said also on March 21 that
there was an attempt, as he put it, to
blackmail the White House, to blackmail
the White House by one of the defendants.
Incidentally, that defendant has denied
it, but at least this was what Mr. Dean
had claimed, and that unless certain
amounts of money were paid—I think it
was $120,000 for attorneys fees and other
support that this particular defendant
would make a statement, not with regard
to Watergate, but with regard to some
national security matters in which Mr.
Ehrlichman had particular responsibility.
My reaction, very briefly, was this: I
said, "As you look at this," I said, “isn't it
quite obvious, first, that if it is going to
have any chance to succeed, that these
individuals aren't going to sit there in
jail for 4 years? They are going to have
clemency; isn't that correct?"
He said, "Yes." I said, "We can't give
clemency." He agreed. Then, I went to
another point. I said, "The second point
is that isn't it also quite obvious, as far
as this is concerned, that while we could
raise the money" and he indicated in
answer to my question, it would probably
take a million dollars over 4 years to take
care of this defendant, and others, on this
kind of basis-the problem was, how do
you get the money to them, and also, how
do you get around the problem of clem-
ency, because they are not going to stay in
jail simply because their families are being
taken care of. And so, that was why I
concluded, as Mr. Haldeman recalls per-
haps and did testify very effectively, one,
when I said, "John, it is wrong, it won't
work. We can't give clemency, and we
have got to get this story out. And there-
fore, I direct you, and I direct Haldeman,
and I direct Ehrlichman, and I direct
Mitchell to get together tomorrow and
then meet with me as to how we get this
story out."
And that is how the meeting on the
22d took place.
PLANS FOR DEFENSE AGAINST CHARGES
[15] Q. Mr. President, earlier in the
news conference you said that you gave
Mr. Haldeman the right to listen to one
tape because you
wanted to be sure that
"we are correct"-I think I am quoting
you correctly.
Now, you have indicated that you still
721
