[216] July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
should be over and negotiation should replace
confrontation. When you said that you were
going to get out of Vietnam with honor and
dignity, what all those things that you have
said, you realized them, one by one, in an
inexorable march toward attaining those noble
goals.
The guns are silent in Vietnam. There is hope
that the people there will start to reconstruct
what has been lost. Hope is created for the
future.
In your actions and decisions for the détente,
great progress has been made in your talks,
where which is called SALT, and other world
conferences. The communique that you issued
with the General Secretary of the Soviet Union
Communist Party was heralding peace, giving
hope that there won't be any nuclear holocaust.
This, obviously, has created new hopes in the
hearts of all the countries of the world, given
them assurance that they, their children will
not be threatened by this nightmare of nuclear
war, by all the possibilities of cooperating,
collaborating in the advancement of science,
technology, for the betterment of the human
life.
But I have got to stress that if that has been
achieved, it was achieved because what was
professed and said was said in earnest, but
also not from a position of begging and
mendacity.
We know in our old history the meaning of
all these words. You can be magnanimous, you
can be farsighted and wise, if you are strong.
You can be right in your judgments, but be
completely wrong in action if you are weak.
So, the element of success, really, is to combine
strength with wisdom and dedication to a noble
cause, the cause of peace, understanding, and
collaboration.
Our country has been through many periods
of greatness and, sometimes, decadence in its
old history. Actually, circumstances are such
that our country has begun a period of prog-
ress-progress, fortunately, in every field.
In the meantime, we have always been aware
of the keen interest and friendship and coopera-
tion of the United States of America. We are
grateful for that. We won't forget that.
But then again, because of our geographic
location, because peace is vital to us, because
without peace we could not attain our na-
tional goals, in order to keep peace in our re-
gion, it must be done from a position of
magnanimity, of wisdom-I am afraid I am
repeating myself—of strength that could only
give you the wisdom to act in the right way
and direction.
We shall work for that. We will never be
tired. We will do all in our power to assure
the progress of our region, the betterment of the
life of our own people, and, to the extent we
could, contribute to the life of other countries,
and all in a very faithful way to the ideals of
humanity, of the civilization that we know, the
civilization that we admire, the civilization
for which we are living, and again, I repeat, the
civilization for which we are ready to die,
if necessary.
Thank you again for your wonderful hospi-
tality, for your very kind words of greetings.
It is on behalf of the Empress and of myself,
and the people of Iran, that I wish you, Mr.
President, who has been wise, determined, suc-
cessful in just doing and bringing about the
things that you have touched upon, that I
have touched upon, all our best wishes for con-
tinuous success; to Mrs. Nixon, the fulfillment
of all her wishes; and to the noble American
people in this wonderful country.
I am sure that all the distinguished guests
tonight will make a toast with me for those
wishes that I hope will all come true.
217 Toasts of the President and the Shah of Iran at a Dinner
July 25, 1973
at the Iranian Embassy.
Your Imperial Majesties and all of the
distinguished guests here this evening
from Iran and from the United States:
It has often been my favorite pleasure
to respond to remarks by His Imperial
Majesty, and it is always difficult to find
adequately those words which will repre-
sent the feelings that are in my heart and,
664
