Appendix B
December
7 Vice President Gerald R. Ford met with
the President in the Oval Office at the
White House.
7 The President met with the Quadriad-
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz,
Director Roy L. Ash of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, Chairman Herbert
Stein of the Council of Economic Advisers,
and Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board-at the White House.
10 Berge Avadanian, national commander of
AMVETS, called on the President at the
White House.
11 Othal Brand and James Griffin, of Mc-
Allen, Tex., organizers of a Committee To
Support the President, called on the Presi-
dent at the White House. They were ac-
companied by Senator John G. Tower.
11 Officers of the American Hospital Associa-
tion met with the President at the White
House to discuss better health care and the
national health insurance program.
12 M. Harvey Taylor, of Harrisburg, Pa.,
called on the President at the White House.
Mr. Taylor, 97, was a former Pennsylvania
State senator. He was accompanied by
John Fine, former Governor of Pennsyl-
vania.
12 J. Craig Smith, of Birmingham, Ala., presi-
dent of the Alabama State Chamber of
Commerce, called on the President at the
White House. Mr. Smith, who had placed
advertisements in support of the President
in Birmingham newspapers, was accom-
panied by Commerce Secretary Frederick
B. Dent.
13 The White House announced that a meet-
ing would be held in Paris on December 20,
1973, between United States Secretary of
State and Assistant to the President Henry
A. Kissinger and Special Adviser Le Duc
Tho, Representative of the Government of
the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, to
discuss matters of mutual interest.
December
13 The President met at the White House with
the Domestic Council Committee on Health
to review recommendations of HEW Sec-
retary Weinberger on national health in-
surance. Vice President Gerald R. Ford also
attended the meeting.
13 Betty Nightingale, of Fort Fairfield, Maine,
Miss National Teen-Ager, called on the
President at the White House. She was
accompanied by Representative William S.
Cohen.
13 Soviet Ambassador to the United States
A. F. Dobrynin met with the President at
the White House for a general review of
foreign policy matters and for a review of
the overall relationships between the United
States and the U.S.S.R.
14 The President met with the Quadriad—
Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz,
Director Roy L. Ash of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, Chairman Herbert
Stein of the Council of Economic Advisers,
and Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board-at the White House
to review current economic conditions and
the energy situation. Also participating in
the meeting were Vice President Gerald R.
Ford and Cost of Living Council Director
John T. Dunlop.
14 The President met at the White House with
national and State leaders of the Jaycees.
Attending the meeting were Rick Clayton,
president, Ray Roper, executive vice presi-
dent, and the 17-member executive commit-
tee, United States Jaycees, as well as the
heads of State Jaycee organizations from
the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
14 The President announced the appointment
of Ambassador at Large Ellsworth Bunker
as his Personal Representative and Chief of
the U.S. delegation to the Geneva negotia-
tions on the Middle East, beginning De-
cember 18.
31-870 - 75
-
72
1087
