Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
need for power, and there is more need
for energy. And that is why I sent the mes-
sage 2 years ago and asked at that time
that the Congress consider a program so
that the United States should become
self-sufficient in energy. All right, I fol-
lowed that up this year in April before
we even knew there might be or had any
idea that of the Mideast crisis, which
made a serious problem, a serious crisis. I
asked them for seven pieces of legislation
to deal with energy. One has reached my
desk, the Alaska pipeline. I signed it. The
other six-I hope they act before they go
home for Christmas.
Now, I am not saying here the Con-
gress is to blame, the President should
have done something. What I do say is
that the President warned about it, and
the Congress did not act, even though he
warned 2 years ago. The President warned
in April, the Congress did not act, and
now it is time for the Congress to get away
from some of these other diversions, if they
have time, and get on to this energy crisis.
Let me just since that question has
come up I would like to point out,
though, how we should react, because the
question about rationing is one that your
average reader is going to be interested in.
I am interested in it, too, because I
remember how we all went through it, the
carpools and all that sort of thing. There
are a few of you here old enough to
remember a carpool, I am sure. Taxicabs
in Washington: You couldn't get one un-
less five of you rode in one, you
remember?
We don't want that. But if we look at
this energy crisis as simply the crisis of
this year, we could not make a greater
mistake. If there had never been a Mid-
east war, there would have been an energy
crisis eventually. That is why I have set as
a goal for the American people—and I
trust all of you will subscribe to it—what
I call "Project Independence 1980."
Why 1980, and why not 1976? Because
in checking with the experts, I find that
it will not be possible, doing everything
that we can do, to become self-sufficient
in energy until 1980. But if the Congress
cooperates, if the Nation cooperates, this
Nation in 1980 can have all the energy
we need.
Let me just briefly tell you what areas
of cooperation are needed.
One, coal. We have half the coal in the
world, and yet, we have conversions from
coal to oil. Why? Because coal is not a
clean fuel. Coal can be made a clean
fuel. Coal can be mined in a way that
does not despoil the landscape. Oh, it will
be argumentative-I am sure that some
of the environmentalists—and I am an
environmentalist along with anybody who
cares about the future for our children-
will object, but we have got to get that
coal out of the ground, and we have to
develop the shale oil, for example, that
exists in Colorado and some of our West-
ern States. That will solve part of the
problem.
And second, you have to deregulate
natural gas. Some protection for the con-
sumer, yes. But you have got wells in Loui-
siana and other places that are shut down
and many that are not being explored be-
cause the price is held at a price too low
to make the explorer have a profit. And
therefore, he isn't going to do it. And
natural gas, as you know, is one of the
cleanest fuels we can possibly have.
And then third, the most exciting of all,
nuclear power. Now, don't write an
editorial on this-you are really going to
catch it from your readers if you do, be-
cause it scares people. Nuclear power-
961
