[169] May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
friendship must constantly be renewed if
it is to be of the greatest possible effec-
tiveness in our changing world.
President Pompidou put it very well
when he said that we believe we can
achieve genuine European-American
unity only while respecting the individual
personality of each sovereign nation. That
is my philosophy as well.
Within our unity there can be indi-
viduality, and if there is not individuality,
that unity will mean nothing in the world
in which we presently live, in which so
many proud peoples play a part.
Looking at our present situation, as
President Pompidou and I agreed today,
it is our interests that unite us. We have
so many things in common: our common
political heritage, our common cultural
tradition, our common concern for the
security of the Atlantic community.
And so, what differences we have-
which are inevitable even among friends-
pale into insignificance as they are com-
pared with those great interests which do
unite us in this great community which
we share.
I am confident that the conversations
we have had on this occasion will result
in an even closer appreciation of our com-
mon interests and of our common ob-
jectives and also a greater determination
to see that those interests and those ob-
jectives are always foremost and that the
tactics designed to meet them will be only
supplemental to those interests.
It is in this spirit of European-American
friendship-French, Icelandic, American
friendship that I offer a toast this eve-
ning, a toast which has never been offered
before, because such a meeting as this
never occurred before and may never
occur again.
A toast to the President of Iceland, a
toast to the Prime Minister of Iceland, and
a toast to the President of France and to
this great community which we are proud
to share together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:41 p.m. in
Bessastadir, the residence of the President of
Iceland, in Reykjavik, in response to toasts pro-
posed by President Eldjárn and President
Pompidou.
President Eldjárn spoke in Icelandic and
President Pompidou spoke in French. Trans-
lations of their toasts follow:
PRESIDENT ELDJÁRN
It is a great pleasure for myself and my wife
to bid you and your companions welcome to
this house.
It is clear to the Icelandic people that your
meeting in this country is worldwide news.
It focuses world attention on our country in
a special manner. This is to our liking, for we
wish to make our country known among others,
to broaden their knowledge of our nation, its
struggle for survival and its social and cultural
aims as well as our historical and natural rights
to this country with all its resources. We believe
that your stay in this country will contribute
to the strengthening of an understanding of our
situation and our endeavors.
In Iceland we attach much importance to
the fact that a democratic way of thinking is
rooted with us and based on an ancient foun-
dation, even reaching back to the age of the
settlement when our ancestors discovered and
inhabited this country which had remained un-
known and uninhabited. We are agreed in wish-
ing to strengthen equality and justice among
the people in our society. You, our distinguished
guests, are leaders of two large and powerful
nations which have contributed in a historic
manner to paving the way for modern concep
tion of freedom and the rights of man. The
Icelandic nation, like others, has thanks to
tender for this cultural influence. I would recall
this on the present occasion and also the fact
that our nation has at least since last century
been in considerable direct contact with your
nations and derived a fertile influence from
them in many fields, among others in the arts
and literature. During the past decades we
have had extensive relations in the international
570
