Richard Nixon, 1973
July 31 [224]
comes to developing those policies that
will build a peaceful world.
And so, let others spend their time
dealing with the murky, small, unim-
portant, vicious little things. We have
spent our time and will spend our time
in building a better world.
I remember that trip, Mrs. Eisen-
hower, that the General so graciously
sent Mrs. Nixon and me on. I remember
the time that you received us both up
in the West Hall right afterwards, and
we were both very tired, and you were
so gracious.
I remember the General speaking
quite eloquently about why Asia was im-
portant, what his dreams were about the
future of the world, and what really mat-
tered, because then he was plagued by
some domestic controversies that most
people have forgotten today.
But he knew what was important, and
he saw it in perspective. And tonight, as
I think of what it is appropriate to say
about our distinguished guest and his col-
leagues and the great nation of 105 mil-
lion people that he represents, I think per-
haps it is best to say that here in America
are 200 million people. We have our
faults, just as every nation has its faults,
but our total dedication at this time in our
history is toward using our great material
resources and our emotional resources and
our intellectual resources toward really
building a better world and not let our-
selves be remembered only for the petty,
little, indecent things that seem to obsess
us at a time when the world is going by.
In that connection, I have been very
encouraged by my talks with the Prime
Minister. He, like myself, came from a
humble beginning. We have one differ-
ence he has never lost an election.
But on the other hand, we have one
thing in which we have totally in com-
mon-we are dedicated not only to Jap-
anese-American friendship but we are
dedicated to the proposition that for the
time we are in positions of political in-
fluence, that influence will be used and
used primarily and only to build a better
world and not be dissipated in those things
that don't matter.
And with the great people of Japan
and what we believe are equally the great
people of America, we are proud to repre-
sent them both.
It is customary, of course, to toast the
honored guest, but not customary when
he is a Prime Minister, and so under these
circumstances, with the permission of the
Prime Minister, I know that you will per-
mit me to ask you to rise and join me in
a toast to His Imperial Majesty, the
Emperor of Japan.
The Emperor.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:51 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Item 222.
Prime Minister Tanaka responded to the
President's toast in Japanese. His remarks were
translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Nixon:
I wish to thank you most sincerely, Mr.
President, for your kind words and cordial wel-
come. I also wish to express my heartfelt ap-
preciation for the kindness and consideration
which you have shown to me and the members
of my party.
And, it is also a very great pleasure for me
to have been given the opportunity of meeting
Mrs. Eisenhower, the wife of the late President
Eisenhower whom we wished we could have
welcomed in Japan, but we did not have the
chance-whom all of us in Japan know as a
great statesman who contributed to bringing
about peace to the whole world and who is
long remembered in the minds of the Japanese
people.
675
