[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
the reason was this: Lyndon Johnson
came in to see me shortly after I became
President. He told me that he had given
his Presidential papers, or at least most
of them, to the Government. He told me
that under the law, up until 1969, Presi-
dential or Vice Presidential papers given
to the Government were a deduction, and
should be taken, and could be taken as a
deduction from the tax.
And he said, "You, Mr. President,
ought to do the same thing." I said, “I
don't have any Presidential papers." He
said, "You have got your Vice Presiden-
tial papers."
I thought of that a moment and said,
"All right, I will turn them over to the
tax people." I turned them over. They ap-
praised them at $500,000. I suppose some
wonder how could the Vice President's
papers be worth that. Well, I was, shall we
say, a rather active Vice President. All
of my personal notes, including matters
that have not been covered in my book-
which I don't advise other people to write,
but in any event I wrote one and I will
stand by it—all of my papers on the Hiss
case, on the famous fund controversy in
1952, on President Eisenhower's heart
attack, on President Eisenhower's stroke,
on my visit to Caracas when I had a few
problems in 1968 [1958], and on my visit
with Khrushchev, all of those papers, all
of my notes, were valued, many believe
conservatively, at that amount.
And so, the tax people who prepared it
prepared the returns and took that as a
deduction. Now, no question has been
raised by the Internal Revenue about it,
but if they do, let me tell you this: I will
be glad to have the papers back, and I will
pay the tax because I think they are worth
more than that.
I can only say that we did what we
were told was the right thing to do and, of
course, what President Johnson had done
before, and that doesn't prove, certainly,
that it was wrong, because he had done
exactly what the law required.
Since 1969, of course, I should point out
Presidents can't do that. So I am stuck
with a lot of papers now that I have got
to find a way to give away or otherwise my
heirs will have a terrible time trying to
pay the taxes on things that people aren't
going to want to buy.
CORRECTION OF EARLIER STATEMENT
[9.] MR. QUINN. Mr. President, may I
suggest that you may have misspoke your-
self when you said that you assumed Hal-
deman and Ehrlichman are considered
guilty until proven not guilty.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I certainly did,
if I said that-thank you for correcting
me.
DEMANDS ON THE PRESIDENT
[10.] Q. Richard Smyser, from the
Oak Ridger in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Senator Mark Hatfield said recently that
we demand so much of a President, we
ask him to play so many roles that no man
can hold that kind of responsibility with-
out having to share that responsibility
with all Americans.
To what extent do you think that this
explains possibly how something like
Watergate can occur?
THE PRESIDENT. I could stand here
before this audience and make all kinds
of excuses, and most of you probably
would understand because you are busy
also. Nineteen hundred seventy-two was
a very busy year for me. It was a year when
we had the visit to China. It was a year
954
