Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 24 [90]
ficult circumstances," and he ended with
three familiar words: "God bless Amer-
ica."
In the years ahead, when passions have
cooled and old controversies have been
laid to rest, let us hope that this spirit will
be the spirit of all of us who lived through
the Vietnam era.
So long as our Nation produces men
of such great character, it can truly be
said that God has blessed America.
Words of thanks are not enough for the
22 million men who have returned home
from this conflict.
We must demonstrate the gratitude we
feel by the actions we take. We must honor
them with the respect they have earned
and the affection they deserve. We must
assist them with health care, education,
training, and housing assistance. These
actions alone cannot fully repay the debt
we owe our veterans, but they can help.
Today I want to report on the actions
we have taken.
These are some of the benefits a Viet-
nam veteran with an honorable or general
discharge is eligible for today:
-$220 per month to pay for a college
or university education, with an addi-
tional allowance for married stu-
dents;
-on-the-job training or apprenticeship
assistance ranging from $40 to $160
per month;
-free hospitalization for service-con-
nected injuries or illnesses;
-guaranteed loans to help him buy a
house, a mobile home, or condomin-
ium;
-monthly compensation for any dis-
abilities suffered in the service;
-special allowances for clothing, hous-
ing, and other needs if he is severely
disabled; and
-small business loans to help him start
his own business.
In every area of government concern,
we are now doing more than we have
ever done before to help our American
veterans.
Take health care for example-the most
immediate need of many returning vet-
erans. To meet this need, the Federal
Government maintains a system of vet-
erans health care under which no eligible
veteran is turned away from hospitaliza-
tion or medical treatment. Our budget re-
quest for veterans health programs for the
coming year is $2.7 billion-an increase
of 80 percent over 1969. More veterans are
receiving health care today than ever be-
fore, and our staffs in veterans hospitals
have been increased by 21,000. We intend
to keep improving on this record.
For disabled veterans, we have provided
a comprehensive program of treatment
and rehabilitation. It begins with high
quality hospital care and physical therapy
and continues with vocational rehabil-
itation and job assistance. In 1973, the
Veterans Administration will provide
vocational rehabilitation for over 35,000
disabled veterans, an 85 percent increase
over 1969. Moreover, we have twice in-
creased compensation payments for dis-
abled veterans, and during fiscal year
1974, 354,000 Vietnam veterans will re-
ceive benefits under this program.
The returning veterans seeking a per-
manent home should know that, in the
past 4 years alone, the number of home
loans under the GI bill has doubled. More
than one million loans amounting to $22
billion have been made in this period-
about one-third of them to Vietnam vet-
erans. Today, Vietnam veterans are re-
ceiving 55 percent of all home loans under
the GI bill.
221
