Richard Nixon, 1973
May 1 [136]
136 Toasts of the President and Chancellor Willy Brandt
of the Federal Republic of Germany. May 1, 1973
Mr. Chancellor, Mr. Vice President, and
all of our very distinguished guests from
the Federal Republic and from the United
States:
We hope that you agree with what the
Chancellor just said that he always hopes
that the Army will be used for playing
violins.
In my brief remarks presenting our very
distinguished guests to this company, all
of whom respect him and most of whom
have met him, I have told him that they
want to hear from him and not from me,
and so, therefore, I will be quite personal
and, I hope, perhaps to the point.
I was thinking how much we have in
common. I was thinking, for example,
that my wife's mother was born in Ger-
many. I was thinking, for example, her
father is Irish. I remember that another
German Chancellor, Chancellor Ade-
nauer, once a rival of our present guest,
said to me that the most beautiful com-
bination of woman was Irish and German,
and I agree.
I was thinking, too, of how much my
wife and my very lovely dinner partner,
Madam von Staden-who is the wife of
the German Ambassador we have just re-
ceived today and his credentials-how
much they have in common. They at-
tended the same school, of course a few
years apart she in 1937, my wife, and
Madam von Staden in 1950-but the
same man was president of the University
of Southern California, Rufus von Klein-
smid, and when I think of him and of
them, I think of what we owe to those of
German background who have given so
much to America.
I think, too, of how much the Chancel-
lor and I have in common. We were re-
marking that we were born in the same
year. But then they looked at him, how
young he was, and I said, "Mr. Chancel-
lor, what month were you born in?" I
was born in January and he was born in
December, so he is much younger than I
am.
I was thinking, too, that our political
careers have been somewhat the same. As
a matter of fact, on my first visit to the
Federal Republic as President, there was
a small dinner when a member of the
other party was then Chancellor, and the
present Chancellor was present, and in a
rather jocular mood, looking across at the
then leader of the opposition, I said,
"Well, Mr. Brandt, don't give up. You
know, you can come back. I am the expert
on coming back." [Laughter]
So here we are, Chancellor of the Fed-
eral Republic, President of the United
States, and each of us in office until 1976.
And I think of all that can happen in
those 3½ years. I think how much de-
pends upon the German-American alli-
ance and on the dedication of the leaders
of these two countries to the same goals—
the goals of strength, of maintaining the
strength of this great alliance that has
brought us to where we are now, where
we can now discuss the possibilities of mu-
tual balanced force reductions. I think,
too, of the fact that there have been occa-
sions in the past when our two nations-
and no blame is attached in this respect to
either side-were not friends. And I think
that together, as we are together and will
always be in the future, we can do every-
thing.
That is what the German alliance
337
