[163] May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
moving into 1973, in January, saw the re-
turn of all Americans from Vietnam, all
of our combat forces, the return of all of
our prisoners of war, the end of the Ameri-
can involvement in Vietnam, a peace
agreement which, if adhered to, will
mean peace for Vietnam and Southeast
Asia.
That was one accomplishment. That is
the one that most people talk about. They
say, "Thank God that war is over. Thank
God we have got peace."
But in a broader sense, other events
took place that will have even more mean-
ing to the world and to peace than your
return and the end of the war in Vietnam.
China, for example. That initiative,
which was undertaken in early 1972, be-
gan in '71, the negotiations, has finally
started communication between the
leaders of the People's Republic of China
and the leaders of the United States of
America. Oh, it doesn't mean they aren't
still Communists and that we are not still
people who love freedom, but it does
mean that instead of having hanging over
us, looking down the road 10, 15, 20 years
from now, a possible confrontation with a
nation of the most able people in the
world, armed with nuclear weapons equal
to our own, instead of having that, there
is a chance, a very good chance now, that
we will have negotiations with them.
rather than confrontation, and that is the
key to peace in the Pacific.
And then the second development was
the meetings with the Soviet leaders. This
did not happen just over a period of 1972.
We worked for the whole 4 years. But it
culminated in the summit in Moscow.
You perhaps heard something about it
since your return. But looking at that
summit agreement, a great deal of em-
phasis can be placed on the aspects of
trade and our cooperation in space and
other areas which are important, but the
most significant development, undoubt-
edly, was the first step, and a very impor-
tant step, in limiting the arms race in the
nuclear field.
We have, therefore, an agreement with
the Soviet Union on defensive nuclear
weapons, where we are both limited, and
we are moving now toward getting a limi-
tation in the offensive field.
And so those were the developments
that occurred in the year 1972.
The other day I was talking to a Con-
gressman. He is a Congressman who has
always voted for strong national defense.
He said, "Mr. President, give me an an-
swer to my constituents to this question.
They say, 'Since we have made such great
progress towards peace, we have ended
the war in Vietnam, we have had this
initiative with China and this initiative
with the Soviet Union, why can't we now
reduce our defenses regardless of what the
other side does and turn that money that
we take away from defense to the very
urgent problems at home?" "
Let me tell you, gentlemen, there is
nothing I would like to do more. A Presi-
dent never likes to veto a bill when it is
going to help somebody anyplace in this
country our schools or our hospitals or
anything that you say.
But on the other hand, when we talk
now about national defense, let me tell
you what the challenge is—and you can
help in this respect--and what the danger
is, a mortal danger that we face insofar
as reduction of our defenses is concerned.
First, our defense budget has been re-
duced. With a new volunteer armed force,
considering the increased costs and the
like, we find that it is approximately a
third reduction of what it was in 1968.
558
