Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [237]
every time something comes up on a mat-
ter; he depends on his Counsel or who-
ever he has given the job to or he has
given that assignment to do the job.
And that is what I expected in this
instance.
U.S. BOMBING OF CAMBODIA
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in your Cam-
bodian invasion speech of April 1970, you
reported to the American people that the
United States had been strictly observing
the neutrality of Cambodia. I am won-
dering if you in light of what we now
know, that there were 15 months of bomb-
ing of Cambodia previous to your state-
ment, whether you owe an apology to the
American people?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly not, and
certainly not to the Cambodian people,
because as far as this area is concerned,
the area of approximately 10 miles which
was bombed during this period, no Cam-
bodians had been in it for years. It was
237 Letter Accepting the
as Secretary of State.
Dear Bill:
totally occupied by the North Vietnamese
Communists. They were using this area
for the purpose of attacking and killing
American Marines and soldiers by the
thousands. The bombing took place
against those North Vietnamese forces in
enemy-occupied territory, and as far as
the American people are concerned, I
think the American people are very
thankful that the President ordered what
was necessary to save the lives of their men
and shorten this war which he found when
he got here, and which he ended.
HELEN THOMAS (United Press Inter-
national). Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-second news
conference was held at 11:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, August 22, 1973, on the grounds of his
residence at San Clemente, Calif. It was broad-
cast live on nationwide radio and television.
On the following day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Henry A. Kissinger on his nomination to be
Secretary of State and matters of foreign policy.
Dr. Kissinger's briefing is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, p. 1026).
Resignation of William P. Rogers
August 22, 1973
It is with the greatest reluctance and
regret that I accept your resignation as
Secretary of State.
I cannot do so without thinking back
gratefully on our quarter century of close
personal friendship, on the battles we have
fought together and the crises we have
weathered together, and on your unwa-
vering good spirits, good judgment and
good sense.
I vividly recall that you were the first
person I turned to for advice and counsel
after receiving the terrible news of Presi-
dent Eisenhower's heart attack in 1955,
and I recall how much your calm, rea-
soned encouragement meant to me as I
sought to do what was right in the course
of that ordeal. But that was only one of
many times, before and since, when I
have instinctively turned to you for advice
and relied heavily on your judgment at
those critical moments that are the truest
test not only of an associate's friendship,
but also of his character.
Few men have given so much of them-
725
