[268] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
from the new Secretary of State, speaking
for the first time in that capacity, and my
remarks, therefore, will be brief before
presenting him to you.
First, I am aware of the fact that dur-
ing the process of his hearings that you
have learned much about him that per-
haps you had not known before, but cer-
tainly during the process of his hearings
you learned that here is a man who has
the poise, the strength, the character to
serve in this great position, and that he
can handle himself under considerable
fire. As a matter of fact, Dr. Kissinger used
to come in my office during the days of
the hearings. He had not been through
such an experience before, and I said,
"You are going to go through it for a long
time; do you still want the job?" But I
kept reassuring him, and I told him the
vote would be very, very good, and it was.
And I am sure he must have felt like
Winston Churchill, who once wrote that
the most exhilarating thing in life is to be
shot at without result.
Now, much has been written about
Dr. Kissinger's background and the sig-
nificance of his appointment. All of you
know and members of the press are aware
of the fact that I like to refer to things
which happen to be first in this Adminis-
tration. I suppose that is the right of
every President.
But in Dr. Kissinger's case, we are very
proud and it is very significant in these
days when we must think of America as
part of a whole world community, it is
very significant that for the first time in
our long history, a naturalized citizen is
the Secretary of State of the United States.
It is also significant to note that this is
the first Secretary of State, who, before
assuming that office, had traveled on offi-
cial business both to Peking and to Mos-
cow. I was trying to think of something
else that had not been written, and noth-
ing occurred to me until yesterday, when
very late in the day, I thought I had better
get a haircut before appearing on tele-
vision again. And so my barber, who is
also Dr. Kissinger's barber, said he had
been looking at some pictures of Secre-
taries of State, and he said, "I bet I know
something about this man that you don't
know."
I said, "I am sure you do. What is it?"
He said, "He is the first Secretary of
State since World War II who doesn't
part his hair."
So, I began to think back and I said,
"Secretary Acheson, yes, that is right, he
parted his hair; Secretary Dulles parted
his hair: Secretary Rogers parted his
hair.”
But then my barber, who is a very wise
man and seldom wrong- I said, "But
what about Secretary Rusk?" And he said,
"Well, Mr. President, he didn't have
much hair, but what he had, he parted."
That little story about the parting of
hair has no relevance to the functions of
Secretary of State. I would sav on a serious
vein simply that Dr. Kissinger assumes
this office at a watershed time in American
foreign policy, at a time when America is
at peace for the first time in 12 years, at a
time when we recognize that the only
thing more difficult than getting peace is
keeping it, at a time, therefore, when
building the structure of peace is so im-
portant.
And he also recognizes another funda-
mental fact. There is a tendency these
days to personalize every activity in, par-
ticularly, foreign policy: the exciting
secret trips of Dr. Kissinger to Peking.
816
