[236] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
feel that Mr. Haldeman and Mr Ehrlich-
man are two of the finest public servants
that you have ever known. You have met
with their lawyer at least twice that we
know of. Are you and Mr. Haldeman and
Mr. Ehrlichman coordinating their and
your defense and, if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. No No, as far as my
defense is concerned. I make it myself. As
far as their defense is concerned, their
lawyer has demonstrated very well before
the committee that he can handle it very
well without any assistance from me.
THE VICE PRESIDENT
[16] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis.
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Mr. President, a follow-up question
on the Agnew situation. You have said in
the past that any White House official who
was indicted would be suspended and
that anyone convicted would be dismissed.
Should Vice President Agnew be in-
dicted, would you expect him to resign or
somehow otherwise stand down tem-
porarily until cleared?
THE PRESIDENT. Now, Mr. Theis, that
is a perfectly natural question and one
that any good newsman, as you are, would
ask. But as you know, it is one that it
would be most inappropriate for me to
comment upon. The Vice President has
not been indicted: charges have been
thrown out by innuendo, and otherwise,
which he has denied to me personally and
which he has denied publicly. And to
talk about indictment and to talk about
resignation, even now-I am not ques-
tioning your right to ask the question,
understand -but for me to talk about it
would be totally inappropriate, and I
make no comment in answer to that
tion.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
ques-
[17] I will take the big mari.
(Laughter)
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I know my troubles
if I don't take him or if I do. Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, looking to the future
on executive privilege, there are a couple
of questions that come to mind
THE PRESIDENT. I thought we got past
that, Clark [Clark R. Mollenhoff, Des
Moines Register and Tribune), that was a
year ago.
Q. But we have it for the future
THE PRESIDENT. All right, fine.
Q. Where is the check on authoritarian-
ism by the executive if the President is to
be the sole judge of what the executive
branch makes available and suppresses?
And will you obey a Supreme Court order
if you are asked and directed to produce
the tapes or other documents for the Sen-
ate committee or for the Special Prosecu-
tor? And, if this is not enough-
[laughter] is there any limitation on the
President, short of impeachment, to com-
pel the production of evidence of a crimi-
nal nature?
THE PRESIDENT. Is there anything
else?
Q. No. I think that would be enough.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No, I was not being
facetious, but I realize it is a complicated
question. The answer to the first question
is that the limitation on the President in
almost all fields like this is, of course, the
limitation of public opinion and, of
course, Congressional and other pressures
that may arise. As far as executive privi-
722
