Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 20 [51]
United States. After all, in this century
we ended World War I, we ended World
War II, we ended Korea, and now we
have ended the American involvement in
Vietnam. The critical question is: How
do we end a war and then go from there
to build a peace? And I address that ques-
tion in relationship to this war for just a
moment.
The year 1972 saw some historic
breakthroughs in terms of America's
search for peace, along with other na-
tions: the opening of the dialog with
the People's Republic of China, with lead-
ers who represent one-fourth of all the
people who live on the face of the globe;
the discussions that took place in Moscow
last May and early June, discussions which
led to a number of agreements, but par-
ticularly an agreement between the two
super powers to limit nuclear arms, the
first step toward arms limitation, and of
course, more talks will take place this
year with the leaders of the Soviet Union.
Now, when we consider those great
events, the opening to China, which we
are already beginning to develop, as you
have noted in your papers recently, the
opening with the Soviet Union of the dis-
cussions that can lead eventually, we trust,
to arms control and perhaps further down
the line to reduction of the nuclear arms
that burdens us, burdens them, and
threatens the whole world with destruc-
tion-as we look at those great events,
combined with the end of the war in
Vietnam, there could be a tendency for
us to sit back and assume that we are go-
ing to have peace, instant peace, because
of these new developments.
What we must recognize is that we
would not have had the kind of fruitful
and constructive discussions that we had
with the Soviet Union, and in my view we
would not have had the opening of the
dialog with the People's Republic of
China unless the United States had been
strong-strong not only in its arms, but
also unless the United States had been
strong in terms of its will, its determina-
tion.
A nation which is strong militarily and
yet is not respected is not a nation that
is worth talking to. America is strong
militarily, and America has demonstrated,
by its willingness to stand by a small, weak
country until we achieved an honorable
peace, that we deserve, first, the trust of
our allies and the respect of our potential
adversaries in the world. And that, again,
gives us a reason why we can look back on
this long and difficult war and say that
American men sacrificed-some their
lives, some long imprisonment, and some
away from home in a land which most of
them did not know-that Americans have
made that sacrifice in a cause that was im-
portant, not just for Vietnam but for
America's position of leadership in the
whole world, because America comes out
of this long and difficult struggle strong
militarily and respected in the world.
Had we taken another course, had we,
for example, followed the advice of some
of the well intentioned people who said,
"Peace at any price. Get our prisoners of
war back in exchange for withdrawing,"
had we taken that course, then respect for
America, not only among our allies but
particularly among those who might be
our potential adversaries, would have
been eroded, perhaps fatally.
And so I say to you here today as we
look to the future, the chances for us to
build a peace that will last are better
than they have been at any time since
the end of World War II. We will con-
tinue the dialog with the Soviet lead-
31-870 O 75 - 11
-
III
