Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 18 [262]
262 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Bhutto
of Pakistan. September 18, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Bhutto and
our distinguished guests from Pakistan
and the United States:
We are very honored, Mr. Prime Min-
ister, to have you, Mrs. Bhutto, the mem-
bers of your official party here in this
room tonight, and we only regret that the
room is so small that all of the friends that
you have—and there are legions in this
country-could not be here to honor you
and to express their friendship for Paki-
stan and the people of Pakistan.
On this occasion, I would like to speak
in somewhat personal terms, since this is
essentially a dinner honoring you person-
ally and your wife personally. I think of
all of the leaders of great nations that
have visited this country since I have had
the privilege of being here as President,
and in a way I think I have known you
longer, although we did not meet at the
time, than any other, because in the year
1950, when I was a very young Congress-
man campaigning for the United States
Senate, you were a very young student at
the University of California. And so,
while we did not meet, we knew each
other, in a way.
Much has happened since then.
Neither of us would have guessed that in
1953 we would meet again in Pakistan,
when you were still very young. You and
Mrs. Bhutto had been married only 2
years, and Mrs. Nixon and I were so hon-
ored to meet you then at the residence of
our Ambassador on our first trip around
the world.
In 1964, there was another meeting. I
should not really disclose this to such a
large group, but this is a group that is so
small that a secret can be kept. [Laughter]
And in Washington that is saying a very
great deal today.
But in 1964, I met Mrs. Bhutto again,
at a private party, at which her husband
was not present and my wife was not
present. [Laughter] I was traveling around
the world by myself with a friend
on a
business trip, and the Prime Minister was
on his official duties traveling abroad.
And then, of course, again we have had
the occasion of meeting, particularly just
2 days before the Prime Minister as-
sumed his present duties.
Now, what I have just referred to is
not meant to be simply a personal re-
counting of our association, but is to make
a point and it is this: Pakistan and the
United States of America have been
friends since the time that Pakistan
became an independent nation.
I, as an American, sometimes in office
and sometimes out-out not at my own
choice [laughter]-but nevertheless, I
can assure you that Pakistan and the
people of Pakistan have always been very
close to my heart. I admire them, I re-
spect them, as do all of the people, Mr.
Prime Minister, in this room, and many
others across this Nation. That friendship
has lasted through a generation, and it
will continue to last. And it will last for
reasons that we do not need to go into
now, but one of the reasons that appeals
to me particularly to mention on this oc-
casion relates to what could have been a
total national disaster for your nation, a
natural and national disaster of the past
few months. I refer to the floods that have
been ravaging your country just at a time
797
