[305] Oct. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the materials could be prepared, there
would be submitted to Judge Sirica,
through a statement prepared by me per-
sonally from the subpoenaed tapes, a full
disclosure of everything contained in those
tapes that has any bearing on Watergate.
The authenticity of this summary would
be assured by giving unlimited access to
the tapes to a very distinguished man,
highly respected by all elements in Ameri-
can life for his integrity, his fairness, and
his patriotism, so that that man could
satisfy himself that the statement pre-
pared by me did indeed include fairly and
accurately anything on the tapes that
might be regarded as related to Water-
gate. In return, so that the constitutional
tensions of Watergate would not be con-
tinued, it would be understood that there
would be no further attempt by the
Special Prosecutor to subpoena still more
tapes or other Presidential papers of a
similar nature.
I am pleased to be able to say that
Chairman Sam Ervin and Vice Chairman
Howard Baker of the Senate Select Com-
mittee have agreed to this procedure and
that at their request, and mine, Senator
John Stennis has consented to listen to
every requested tape and verify that the
statement I am preparing is full and ac-
curate. Some may ask why, if I am willing
to let Senator Stennis hear the tapes for
this purpose, I am not willing merely to
submit them to the court for inspection
in private. I do so out of no lack of re-
spect for Judge Sirica, in whose discretion
and integrity I have the utmost confi-
dence, but because to allow the tapes to
be heard by one judge would create a
precedent that would be available to 400
district judges. Further, it would create a
precedent that Presidents are required to
submit to judicial demands that purport
to override Presidential determinations on
requirements for confidentiality.
To my regret, the Special Prosecutor
rejected this proposal. Nevertheless, it is
my judgment that in the present circum-
stances and existing international en-
vironment, it is in the overriding national
interest that a constitutional confrontation
on this issue be avoided. I have, therefore,
instructed White House Counsel not to
seek Supreme Court review from the de-
cision of the court of appeals. At the
same time, I will voluntarily make avail
able to Judge Sirica-and also to the Sen-
ate Select Committee a statement of the
Watergate-related portions of the tapes,
prepared and authenticated in the fashion
I have described.
I want to repeat that I have taken this
step with the greatest reluctance, only to
bring the issue of Watergate tapes to an
end and to assure our full attention to
more pressing business affecting the very
security of the Nation. Accordingly,
though I have not wished to intrude upon
the independence of the Special Prose-
cutor, I have felt it necessary to direct
him, as an employee of the executive
branch, to make no further attempts by
judicial process to obtain tapes, notes, or
memoranda of Presidential conversations.
I believe that with the statement that will
be provided to the court, any legitimate
need of the Special Prosecutor is fully
satisfied and that he can proceed to ob-
tain indictments against those who may
have committed any crimes. And I believe
that by these actions I have taken today,
America will be spared the anguish of
further indecision and litigation about
tapes.
Our constitutional history reflects not
888
