Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
We also initiated the Safeguard anti-bal-
listic missile (ABM) program to protect
our land-based retaliatory forces.
Each of these decisions was taken, how-
ever, with the full understanding that, as
an integral part of our national security
policy, we also would seriously pursue ne-
gotiations for arms limitations. We would
offer the Soviet Union the opportunity to
reach agreement on measures that would
enhance the security of both sides.
Finally, we began to assess our secu-
rity obligations to determine how our
alliance defense posture might be
strengthened through mutual effort. We
examined whether U.S. forces in some
forward areas might be reduced; in
those regions where security required a
strong and continuing American pres-
ence, as in Europe, we and our allies ini-
tiated new programs for sharing the de-
fense burden.
In the past four years we have laid a
solid foundation for safeguarding Ameri-
can security for the remainder of this
decade. We are now entering a period of
promising prospects for increasing inter-
national stability. But the outcome is by
no means guaranteed. We are still in a
challenging period of transition. We still
face difficult decisions.
There have been a number of positive
developments since 1969. Unprecedented
progress has been made in strategic arms
controls. For the first time in two decades
there is a genuine possibility of mutual
and balanced force reductions in Europe.
Our allies in Western Europe and Asia
have become stronger, both economically
and militarily, and are contributing more
to mutual defense. Tensions in these two
regions have been easing. A Vietnam
Peace Agreement has been signed and
our force of a half million men has re-
turned home.
On the other hand, we cannot ignore
the negative trends that persist. Even
though Vietnam is entering a new phase,
conflict remains in Indochina and fer-
ment persists in other key areas of the
world such as the Middle East where
the interests of major powers are involved.
Modern weapons are still being delivered
to areas of great instability. The Soviet
Union is strengthening its armed forces in
every major category, including those in
which the United States traditionally has
had a substantial margin of superiority.
A Soviet military presence now has been
established in many strategic areas of the
world.
As we determine the requirements for
our defense in these circumstances and
approach ongoing arms control negotia-
tions, five factors of the current situation
are of particular importance:
-There is approximate parity between
the strategic forces of the United
States and the Soviet Union. Soviet
numerical advantages are offset by
superior American technology.
-In such an era greater reliance must
be placed on non-nuclear forces.
-Technological change while creating
new opportunities also poses a poten-
tial threat to existing strategic
stability.
-Manpower costs have increased sub-
stantially. They now absorb more
than 56 percent of our entire de-
fense budget, compared with 42 per-
cent a decade ago. Now that we have
chosen to rely on all-volunteer forces,
the proportion devoted to manpower
is not likely to decrease.
-The costs of increasingly complex
31-870 - 75-34
479
