Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 16 [332]
stopping there, building a permanent
peace that in the year 2000 your children
and my
children could enjoy.
I had as another goal building a new
prosperity of full employment without war
and without unacceptable inflation.
And I had as another goal making this
country a safe country, a beautiful coun-
try, a country that our children would in-
vest in and believe in and love.
That was the job I was elected to do,
and I can assure you that no matter what
some of my good-intentioned friends and,
certainly, I would say, honest opponents,
may suggest to the contrary, I am not
going to walk away until I get that job
done.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:04 a.m. at
the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
331 Statement on the Launching of the Skylab 3
Spacecraft. November 16, 1973
THE SKYLAB flight that begins today
marks the conclusion of the single most
productive program in the history of
man's quest for knowledge about himself
and his world. The crew of Skylab will
mark in space the 16th anniversary of
America's first step toward the heavens.
From the launch of a 30-pound space
satellite, we progressed to the exploration
of the Moon, which is helping to deter-
mine Earth's place in the universe. Now
we are moving to determine through space
technology man's own place in the uni-
verse, and to greater understanding of
our own planet.
As we are grateful for the success of
our previous ventures into space, and as
we look to the success of that which is
imminent, let us never take for granted
the skill and courage and devotion of
those who labor on behalf of the United
States space program. Let us rather pause
to reflect with pride upon what we have
done, asking God's blessings upon our
efforts, and God's grace upon those who
bravely place their lives at the service of
peace for all mankind.
332 Remarks on Signing a Bill
Trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline.
I WANT to congratulate all of the Mem-
bers of the House and Senate that are
here, as well as members of the Adminis-
tration, for their support of this legislation.
It has a couple of clinkers in it, as you
know-shall we say, riders—that I would
very much like to see removed. However,
I thought that the importance of dealing
with the energy crisis was so great that
Authorizing the
November 16, 1973
that had to override my objections to the
amendments.
I will, of course, ask the Congress in its
wisdom to consider the possibility of con-
sidering the two riders separately in legis-
lation and then possibly removing them.
Could I have your support, Senator?
SENATOR HENRY M. JACKSON. You
will have my consideration.
941
