[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the use of computers in management, and
planning joint probes into space. Cul-
tural groups and performing artists ply
between the two countries in increasing
numbers. Similar exchanges are occurring
with the People's Republic of China. In
the past year, Chinese table tennis players,
physicians, scientists, and acrobats have
visited the United States, and business-
men, doctors, journalists, educators,
scientists, and scholars from this country
have gone to China.
Scientific, educational, and cultural ex-
changes between the United States and
scores of other countries are also steadily
increasing, under both official and un-
official auspices. These have helped open
up new levels of dialogue with present
and prospective leaders in much of the
world.
These expanding contacts of millions
of American citizens and hundreds of
American organizations with their coun-
terparts abroad must increasingly influ-
ence the way others see us and the way all
societies see themselves. These trends are
not a panacea but they are contributing
to a climate of understanding in which
governments can pursue the adjustment
of official relationships. They also afford
the individual citizen meaningful ways to
help build the structure of peace which is
America's goal.
INTERNATIONAL HIJACKING AND
TERRORISM
Just when prospects for peace among
nations are stronger than at any other
time in recent decades, a new form of
lawless violence is spreading like a cancer
through the international community.
Acts of politically-inspired terrorism
against innocent persons and against com-
mercial aircraft and other targets have
increased sharply in recent years. The
means chosen by these terrorists are often
completely unscrupulous and their de-
structive effects indiscriminate. Terror-
ism threatens not only the safety and well-
being of individuals around the globe but
even the stability of some societies.
Crimes against civil aviation continue
to be a major threat. The number of air-
craft hijackings has grown throughout the
world since the first such incident, the
diversion of an American plane to Cuba
in May 1961. Aircraft of nations repre-
senting the full range of the political spec-
trum have been affected, including Soviet,
Israeli, German, Belgian, British, Mexi-
can, and American planes.
Terrorists have also struck in many
other ways. More than 100 letter bombs
have been sent through the international
mails. A wave of diplomatic abductions
began in August 1968 when terrorists tried
to kidnap the U.S. Ambassador to Guate-
mala, and killed him in the process. Since
then, 17 diplomatic kidnapping attempts
have occurred in the Western Hemisphere
alone. The recent murders of one Bel-
gian and two American diplomats in
Khartoum underscore the global dimen-
sion of the terrorist problem.
The United States, in consultation with
other governments, has tried to curb this
rising tide of international crime and
gangsterism. Over the last ten years we
have pressed for adoption of international
conventions to deal with skyjacking. Three
multilateral agreements are now in force:
-The 1963 Tokyo Convention, which
requires states to return hijacked air-
craft to the control of their lawful
commanders and to facilitate con-
tinuation of air journeys interrupted
by violence;
510
