Richard Nixon, 1973
May 22 [162]
was not involved. In the discussion, Mr.
Gray suggested that the matter of Water-
gate might lead higher. I told him to press
ahead with his investigation.
It now seems that later, through what-
ever complex of individual motives and
possible misunderstandings, there were
apparently wide-ranging efforts to limit
the investigation or to conceal the possible
involvement of members of the Adminis-
tration and the campaign committee.
I was not aware of any such efforts at
the time. Neither, until after I began my
own investigation, was I aware of any
fundraising for defendants convicted of
the break-in at Democratic headquarters,
much less authorize any such fundraising.
Nor did I authorize any offer of executive
clemency for any of the defendants.
In the weeks and months that fol-
lowed Watergate, I asked for, and re-
ceived, repeated assurances that Mr.
Dean's own investigation (which in-
cluded reviewing files and sitting in on
FBI interviews with White House person-
nel) had cleared everyone then employed
by the White House of involvement.
In summary, then:
(1) I had no prior knowledge of the
Watergate bugging operation, or of any
illegal surveillance activities for political
purposes.
(2) Long prior to the 1972 campaign,
I did set in motion certain internal secur-
ity measures, including legal wiretaps,
which I felt were necessary from a na-
tional security standpoint and, in the
climate then prevailing, also necessary
from a domestic security standpoint.
(3) People who had been involved in
the national security operations later,
without my knowledge or approval, un-
dertook illegal activities in the political
campaign of 1972.
(4) Elements of the early post-Water-
gate reports led me to suspect, incor-
rectly, that the CIA had been in some
way involved. They also led me to surmise,
correctly, that since persons originally
recruited for covert national security
activities had participated in Watergate,
an unrestricted investigation of Water-
gate might lead to and expose those covert
national security operations.
(5) I sought to prevent the exposure
of these covert national security activi-
ties, while encouraging those conducting
the investigation to pursue their inquiry
into the Watergate itself. I so instructed
my staff, the Attorney General, and the
Acting Director of the FBI.
(6) I also specifically instructed Mr.
Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman to ensure
that the FBI would not carry its investi-
gation into areas that might compro-
mise these covert national
national security
activities, or those of the CIA.
(7) At no time did I authorize or
know about any offer of executive
clemency for the Watergate defendants.
Neither did I know until the time of my
own investigation of any efforts to pro-
vide them with funds.
CONCLUSION
With hindsight, it is apparent that I
should have given more heed to the
warning signals I received along the way
about a Watergate coverup and less to
the reassurances.
With hindsight, several other things
also become clear:
-With respect to campaign prac-
tices, and also with respect to campaign
finances, it should now be obvious that no
campaign in history has ever been sub-
jected to the kind of intensive and search-
553
