Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 22 [53]
also much too high and constitutes a great
waste for our Nation.
As we move into a new era of peace-
time prosperity, our economic system is
going to have room-indeed, is going to
have need for nearly every available
hand.
thus
The role of women in our economy
is bound to grow. And it should—not only
because the expansion of opportunities
for women is right, but also because Amer-
ica will not be able to achieve its full
economic potential unless every woman
who wants to work can find a job that pro-
vides fair compensation and equal oppor-
tunity for advancement.
This Administration is committed to
the promotion of this goal. We support the
Equal Rights Amendment. We have
opened the doors of employment to quali-
fied women in the Federal service. We
have called for similar efforts in businesses
and institutions which receive Federal
contracts or assistance.
Just last year, we established the Ad-
visory Committee on the Economic Role
of Women. This Committee will provide
leadership in helping to identify economic
problems facing women and helping to
change the attitudes which create unjust
and illogical barriers to their employment.
PAY AND PURCHASING POWER
peo-
The second great question is what
ple are paid on their jobs and how much
it will buy for them.
Here the news is also good. Not only are
more people working, but they are getting
more for their work. Average per capita
income rose by 7.7 percent during 1972,
well above the average gain during the
previous ten years.
The most important thing, however, is
that these gains were not wiped out by ris-
ing prices as they often were in the
1960's. The Federal Government spent
too much, too fast in that period and the
result was runaway inflation.
While wages may have climbed very
rapidly during those years, purchasing
power did not. Instead, purchasing power
stalled, or even moved backward. Infla-
tion created an economic treadmill that
sometimes required a person to achieve a
6 percent salary increase every year just
to stay even.
Now that has changed. The inflation
rate last year was cut nearly in half from
what it was four years ago. The purchas-
ing power of the average worker's take-
home pay rose more last year than in any
year since 1955; it went up by 4.3 per-
cent—the equivalent of two extra weekly
paychecks.
We expect inflation to be reduced even
further in 1973-for several reasons.
A fundamental reason is the Nation's
growing opposition to runaway Federal
spending. The public increasingly per-
ceives what such spending does to prices
and taxes. As a result, we have a good
chance now, the best in years, to curb the
growth of the Federal budget. That will
do more than anything else to protect the
family budget.
Other forces are working for us too.
Productivity increased sharply last
year-which means the average worker is
producing more and can therefore earn
more without driving prices higher. In ad-
dition, the fact that real spendable earn-
ings rose so substantially last year will en-
courage reasonable wage demands this
year. Workers will not have to catch up
from an earlier slump in earnings.
119
