Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [63]
people, men and women and little children, will
be happy and will live and will find all this
worthwhile.
When that great day comes-I said the other
night to a group of friends, we have a song
about peace, what will happen when peace
comes, and the song has a refrain: This is not
a fantasy, this is not a dream, this is true; if
it won't happen today, then tomorrow; if not
tomorrow, then the next day; but this is not a
fantasy and not a dream.
Mr. President, when that great day comes,
and I am convinced that it will come, we will
always remember that in days of sorrow and
difficulty and danger, we were not alone, we
had a friend.
Ladies and gentlemen, to the President.
63 The President's News Conference of
March 2, 1973
THE PRESIDENT'S MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT THIEU OF SOUTH VIETNAM
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] I have one an-
nouncement for those who are members of
the traveling press.
We have now set the date for the San
Clemente meeting with President Thieu,
and it will be April 2 and 3. Those of you
who desire to go should make your plans,
if you could, to leave on the Friday before,
because I am going to California to attend
a dinner on that occasion for John Ford
on Saturday night, the 31st, and then the
meetings will start the following Tuesday
and will be concluded that week.
I will take any other questions you have.
QUESTIONS
CEASE-FIRES IN LAOS AND CAMBODIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, there has been
considerable speculation and interpreta-
tion after the Laos cease-fire pact to the
effect that the Communists gained more
out of this than they did out of the Geneva
Accords, and also a situation in Cambodia
that no one seems to be able to interpret.
Originally you hinged your peace settle-
ment on all of Indochina.
What is your expectation in these areas,
and how much confidence do you have
that stability will be maintained?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sheldon [Court-
ney R. Sheldon, Christian Science Moni-
tor], first, with regard to Laos, the agree-
ment there was made by the Royal
Laotian Government, and it is an agree-
ment which we, of course, supported and
we accept. I have noted that various ele-
ments within Laos have questioned the
decision by Souvanna Phouma to make
the agreement that he did. But the key
to that agreement and what will make
the cease-fire work is an unequivocal pro-
vision in the agreement that we made and
that is for the withdrawal of all foreign
forces from Laos. We expect that to be
adhered to, and when that is adhered to,
we believe that the chances for peace in
Laos will be very considerable, and con-
siderably more than after the '54 accords.
As I have pointed out, and as Dr.
Kissinger has also pointed out, the situa-
tion in Cambodia is much more complex
because you don't have the governmental
forces there that can negotiate with each
other. However, there has been an at-
tempt on the part of the Cambodian Gov-
ernment to have a unilateral cease-fire
that has not been reciprocated on the part
151
