Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 26 [340]
I don't think everybody thought it meant
very much because the American mer-
chant marine and many of the members
of this organization were pretty much flat
on their backs, and they seemed to have
not much of a future because nobody
seemed to care very much about whether
or not the United States should have a
strong, vital merchant marine, a U.S.
merchant marine.
I cared very much about that, and I
made some remarks in Seattle about that,
and at that time I think a few eyes were
lifted, and they said, "Well, we will see.'
It took some time, but I am proud that
on the presentation of this great model
ship, the Brooklyn, that we now see the
fruition of the efforts in one area. And as
far as you are concerned, you have seen
the fruition of the efforts that we have
made to build a strong and powerful U.S.
merchant marine in the kind of opera-
tions that you are now engaging in around
the world, the increase of American trade,
but also, that increase not at the expense
of American jobs on the sea, and that, of
course, is exactly what we were trying to
do.
May I say also that, having spoken of
the need for a strong American merchant
marine, I did so because I believe in some-
thing. I believe in independence, just as
you believe in independence.
I notice, for example, there is a flag
at everybody's place here in this room, and
some will say, "Now, why those little
flags? Isn't that being a little bit jingoistic?
It isn't fashionable to have flags in front
of every place; you need only one, one up
here."
I will tell you why I think you have
those flags there, and I got this from my
conversation with Paul Hall and with
some of you that I have met through the
years: because there is no group in
America that believes more deeply in
America than the members of this group
and those, the 85,000 of them, that travel
the seas and see all the world, and after
they see all the world and come back and
say, "Thank God I am an American citi-
." That is why you feel that way.
Also, as I think of the reason that I
made that campaign promise 5 years ago
in Seattle, apart from whatever political
reasons were involved-and I can as-
sure you that the predominant reason was
the one that I mentioned, my belief in
the need for a strong American merchant
marine as part of our overall national and
international policy—as I look back to
that particular time, I try to think of it
in a broader scope. I think of it in terms
of some of our present problems.
Some of you perhaps last night had to
endure the President speaking to the Na-
tion again, interrupting one of your
favorite shows at 7 o'clock at night, which
I try not to do if I can avoid it, but if the
subject is important enough, then I must
speak to the Nation, and in this instance
I spoke about energy. I spoke 3 weeks ago
about energy. And that ship is about
energy because it carries oil, right?
Now, under these circumstances, there-
fore, I think it is appropriate for me to re-
late the belief of this organization in this
country, your belief in independence for
America, to the problem of energy that
we have today. I mentioned last night
some things that we could do this year to
deal with the crisis that we have for this
year, a crisis that was made much more
difficult because of what has happened in
the Mideast over the past 3 to 4 weeks.
And those things, incidentally, perhaps
977
