[264) Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
money to them at a future date should
they need it to cover the commitments
they now are making This authority will
cover up to $2.5 billion in loan commit-
ments.
2. Providing interest rate assistance to
Federally insured borrowers.
The Department of Housing and Ur-
ban Development will also join in the ef-
fort to ease the current mortgage credit
problem by reinstituting the so-called
"Tandem Plan" under the auspices of its
Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion. Under this plan, the GNMA will
provide money for FHA-insured mort-
gages at interest rates somewhat below
the market level. To encourage new con-
struction, only mortgages on new housing
starts will be eligible for this assistance.
Up to $3 billion in mortgages for new
housing will be financed under this ar-
rangement, making loans available at at-
tractive rates to tens of thousands of
American homebuyers.
3. Increasing the size of mortgages cli-
gible for Federal insurance.
The Federal Government presently en-
courages lenders to put money into hous-
ing by insuring mortgages involving low
downpayments and long repayment pe-
riods. The Government guarantees, in
effect, that lenders will be protected in the
event of a default on the loan. Such mort-
gage insurance, whether it is provided by
the Federal Government or by private
institutions, is particularly important in
making mortgages available to younger
families and others who do not have
enough savings to make a large downpay-
ment or enough income to make the
higher monthly payments that come with
shorter mortgage terms.
The Congress periodically sets limits
on the size of a mortgage loan which the
FHA can insure and adjusts the down-
payment requirement. The last time this
was done was in 1968. Although realis-
tic then, the current ceiling and down-
payment terms are unrealistic in today's
housing market. As a result, FHA insur-
ance for multifamily units has been com-
pletely cut off and FHA-insured financing
is impossible for any home purchase in a
large and growing number of areas across
the country.
To remedy this problem, I ask the Con-
gress to authorize the FHA to insure larger
housing loans on a low downpayment
basis both for single and for multifamily
dwellings.
Such a change would revive Federal in-
surance activity in areas where it has been
curtailed. In addition, it would permit
at least a partial resumption of housing
loan activity in certain States where an-
achronistic usury laws impose interest
ceilings lower than current market rates
and therefore shut off mortgage lending.
Many of these States exempt Federally-
insured loans from such interest ceilings-
which means that Federal insurance is a
prerequisite for obtaining a housing loan
in these jurisdictions. This makes it all
the more important that the Congress
act promptly on my proposal to expand
the reach of our Federal mortgage in-
surance programs.
MAKING LONG-TERM IMPROVEMENTS IN
THE CREDIT SYSTEM
1. Permitting homebuyers to pay mar-
ket-level interest rates and still be eligible
for Federal insurance.
In an effort to hold down the cost of
borrowing, the Congress has limited the
804
