[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
attitudes toward international relations.
They provided both a framework for our
future relations and a yardstick by which
to measure each other's performance.
With respect to the relationship of
Taiwan to the mainland, the United
States reaffirmed its interest in a peaceful
solution of this question by the Chinese
themselves. We based this view on the fact
that all Chinese on either side of the
Taiwan Strait maintain that there is but
one China and that Taiwan is a part of
China.
The communique then laid down the
foundations for tangible improvements in
our relations. These would allow us to
move from the elimination of mistrust and
the establishment of broad understandings
to more concrete accomplishments:
-We agreed to facilitate bilateral ex-
changes in order to broaden the un-
derstanding between our peoples.
Specific areas mentioned were sci-
ence, technology, culture, sports, and
journalism.
-We undertook to facilitate the pro-
gressive growth of trade between our
countries. Both sides viewed eco-
nomic relations based on equality
and mutual benefit as being in the
interests of our peoples.
-We decided to maintain contact
through various channels, including
sending a senior U.S. representative
to Peking periodically to exchange
views directly. This reflected a mu-
tual desire to expand our communi-
cations.
-We also subsequently established a
formal channel through our two em-
bassies in Paris. This would institu-
tionalize our contacts and facilitate
exchanges, trade, and travel.
MAJOR ADVANCES IN THE PAST YEAR
Since my visit to Peking the momentum
of our relations has grown in all the fields
covered by the Shanghai Communique.
As foreseen in the communique, Dr.
Kissinger returned to Peking in June to
review international issues with the Chi-
nese and to stimulate progress in the vari-
ous bilateral programs. Our embassies in
Paris also facilitated the flow of groups
and goods.
The growth of our bilateral trade has
exceeded expectations. In 1971, U.S. im-
ports from China totalled $4.9 million,
while our exports were negligible. In 1972
we imported $32.3 million worth of goods
and exported $60.2 million, an expansion
of trade helped by the attendance of more
than 150 American businessmen at the
spring and fall sessions of the Canton Ex-
port Commodities Fair. In 1973, two-way
trade is likely to show substantial addi-
tional growth, and may well place the
United States among China's five largest
trading partners. To encourage this ex-
pansion of commercial relations, a Na-
tional Council for U.S.-China Trade was
formed in early 1973 by a distinguished
group of private business executives. This
organization will seek to promote the or-
derly development of bilateral trade
through exchange of information and
facilitation of contacts between Chinese
and American manufacturers, exporters,
and traders.
A substantial beginning was made in
the development of exchanges between
our two countries. A championship table
tennis team from the People's Republic
toured the United States in April 1972, in
return for the visit of the American team
which had played in Peking a year earlier.
362
