[52] Feb. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
hospital beds are now in surplus, educa-
tional bonuses that attract more people
into teaching when tens of thousands of
teachers already cannot find jobs.
These old programs may have appeal-
ing names, they may sound like good
causes, but behind the fancy label often
lies a dismal failure. Unless we cut back
now on the programs that have failed, we
will soon run out of money for the pro-
grams that can succeed.
It has been charged that our budget
cuts show a lack of compassion for the dis-
advantaged. The best answer to this
charge is to look at the facts.
We are budgeting 66 percent more to
help the poor next year than was the case
4 years ago, 67 percent more to help the
sick, 71 percent more to help older Amer-
icans, and 242 percent more to help the
hungry and malnourished. Altogether,
our human resources budget is nearly
double that of 4 years ago when I came
into office.
We have already shifted our spending
priorities from defense programs to
human resources programs. Now we must
also switch our spending priorities from
programs which give us a bad return on
the dollar to programs that pay off. That
is how to show we truly care about the
needy.
The question is not whether we help,
but how we help. By eliminating programs
that are wasteful, we can concentrate on
programs that work. Our recent round of
budget cuts can save $11 billion in this
fiscal year, $19 billion next fiscal year, $24
billion the year after. That means an aver-
age saving of $700 over the next 3 years.
for each of America's 75 million taxpayers.
Let me turn, finally, to one other major
economic decision we made last week-
our proposal to change the relative value
of the dollar in trading abroad.
We took this step because of a serious
trade imbalance which could threaten
your prosperity. America has recently
been buying more from other countries
than they have been buying from us. Now,
just as a company cannot go on indefi-
nitely buying more than it sells, neither
can a country.
Changing the exchange rate will help
us change this picture. It means our ex-
ports will be priced more competitively in
the international marketplace, and they
should, therefore, sell better. Our imports,
on the other hand, will not grow as fast.
But this step must now be followed by re-
forms which are more basic.
First, we need a more flexible interna-
tional monetary system, one that will lead
to balance without crisis. The United
States set forth fundamental proposals for
such a system last September. It is time
for other nations to join us in getting ac-
tion on these proposals.
Second, American products must get a
fairer shake in world trade so that we can
extend American markets and expand
American jobs. If other countries make it
harder for our products to be sold abroad,
then our trade imbalance can only grow
worse. That is why I will soon propose
to the Congress new trade laws which
would make it easier for us not only to
lower our trade barriers when other coun-
tries lower theirs but also to raise our
barriers when that is necessary to keep
things fair.
Our overall goal is to reduce trade and
investment barriers around the world, but
they cannot decline for one country and
remain high for others. My proposals will
allow us to work more effectively for a
116
