Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 22 [369]
will be fair and effective-and that we
can work toward this in a spirit of con-
structive cooperation between the political
parties and between the executive and
legislative branches. In short, I trust we
can work toward it as concerned Ameri-
cans meeting a challenge that we face
together and are determined to meet
together.
369 Statement on Signing the Menominee Restoration Act.
December 22, 1973
THE SIGNING of H.R. 10717 represents
an important turning point in the history
of the American Indian people. By restor-
ing the Menominee Indian Tribe to Fed-
eral trust status, the United States has at
last made a clear reversal of a policy which
was wrong, the policy of forcibly terminat-
ing Indian tribal status.
I indicated my strong opposition to such
termination in my message to the Con-
gress of July 8, 1970. I continue to believe
that the Congress should rescind the out-
moded House Concurrent Resolution 108
of 1953 in which this ill-advised termina-
tion policy was first set forth.
The case of the Menominees is a clear
example of the unwisdom and unwork-
ability of forced termination. Restoration
is a particularly apt course to adopt in
this instance because of two charac-
teristics of the Menominees' situation.
First, it can be argued that the Menomi-
nees did not willingly enter into termina-
tion. Secondly, unlike many other termi-
nated tribes, the Menominees have re-
mained a remarkably cohesive Indian
group with their own government and
have maintained a strong attachment to
their former reservation land by preserv-
ing their land base virtually intact.
I am also very pleased that H.R. 10717
incorporates one of the most important
features of my legislative agenda for
Indian people-authority to make grants
to Indian tribal governments, upon their
request, to carry out Indian programs ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior.
I believe that the Menominees' experience
with self-government indicates that this
granting procedure could be a most useful
one for them to have in dealing with the
Federal Government.
I join the national Indian organiza-
tions, the Congress, and the public in ex-
pressing my pleasure and satisfaction at
seeing this bill enacted. I especially salute
the Menominee people and their leaders
for their persuasiveness and perseverance
in using the tools of the political process to
bring about peaceful change.
The legislative agenda in the area of
Indian affairs is still a long and significant
one. Many of the items on that agenda are
recommendations which I made fully 3½
years ago. I am confident that the Con-
gress will continue to move ahead with
these tasks in the same constructive and
bipartisan spirit which characterized the
enactment of H.R. 10717.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10717 is Public Law
93-197 (87 Stat. 770).
31-870 - 75 - 68
1023
