Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
lege is concerned in the Watergate mat-
ter and, I must say, the ITT file and so
forth, that this Administration has, I
think, gone further in terms of waiving
executive privilege than any Administra-
tion in my memory, certainly a lot further
than Mr. Truman was willing to go when
I was on the other side, as you recall, urg-
ing that he waive executive privilege.
Now, with regard to what the Supreme
Court will do or say, the White House
Press Secretary-assistant Press Secre-
tary, Mr. Warren, has responded to that
already. I won't go beyond that, and par-
ticularly, I won't make any statement on
that at this time while the matter is still
being considered by Judge Sirica. I un-
derstand his decision will come down on
Wednesday, and then we will make a de-
termination. But as far as the statement
that Mr. Warren has made with regard to
the President's position of complying with
a definitive order of the Supreme Court
is concerned, that statement stands.
MOTIVATIONS OF WATERGATE CRITICS
[18.] Q. Sir, last week in your speech
you referred to those who would exploit
Watergate to keep you from doing your
job. Could you specifically detail who
"those" are?
THE PRESIDENT. I would suggest that
where the shoe fits, people should wear it.
I would think that some political figures,
some members of the press, perhaps, some
members of the television, perhaps would
exploit it. I don't impute, interestingly
enough, motives, however, that are im-
proper, because here is what is involved.
There are a great number of people in
this country that would prefer that I do
resign. There are a great number of peo-
ple in this country that didn't accept the
mandate of 1972. After all, I know that
most of the members of the press corps
were not enthusiastic-and I understand
that about either my election in '68 or
'72. That is not unusual.
the
Frankly, if I had always followed what
press predicted or the polls predicted,
I would have never been elected President.
But what I am saying is this: People who
did not accept the mandate of '72, who
do not want the strong America that I
want to build, who do not want the for-
eign policy leadership that I want to give,
who do not want to cut down the size of
this government bureaucracy that bur-
dens us so greatly and to give more of our
government back to the people, people
who do not want these things, naturally,
would exploit any issue-if it weren't
Watergate, anything else-in order to
keep the President from doing his job.
And so I say I impute no improper
motives to them; I think they would
prefer that I fail. On the other hand, I
am not going to fail. I am here to do a
job, and I am going to do the best I can,
and I am sure the fair-minded members
of this press corps-and that is most of
you will report when I do well, and I
am sure you will report when I do badly.
WIRETAPS AND PROTECTION OF THE
PRESIDENTS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, you recently
suggested today that if the late Robert
Kennedy had initiated 10 more wiretaps
he would have been able to discover the
Oswald plan, as you described it, and
thereby presumably prevent the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me correct you,
sir. I want to be sure that the assumption
is correct. I said if 10 more wiretaps could
723
