[207] July 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
feature of the American economy. We are
told to forget the idea of regaining a free
economy and set about developing the
regulations and bureaucracy for a perma-
nent system of controls.
The other suggestion is to make the
move for freedom now, abolishing all con-
trols immediately.
While these suggestions are well meant
and, in many cases, reflect deep convic-
tion, neither can be accepted. Our wise
course today is not to choose one of these
extremes, but to seek the best possible
reconciliation of our interests in slowing
down the rate of inflation on the one hand,
and preserving American production and
efficiency on the other.
The main elements in the policy we
need are these:
First, the control system must be
tough. It has to hold back and phase in
gradually a large part of the built-in pres-
sure for higher prices which already exists
in the economy.
Second, the system must be selective.
It must permit relaxation of those re-
straints which interfere most with produc-
tion, and it must not waste effort on
sectors of the economy where stability of
prices exists. The control system should
also be designed to accommodate the spe-
cial problems of various sectors of the
economy under the strains of high use of
capacity.
Third, the system must contain suffi-
cient assurance of its termination at an
appropriate time to preserve incentives
for investment and production and guard
against tendencies for controls to be
perpetuated.
Fourth, the control system must be
backed up by firm steps to balance the
budget, so that excess demand does not
regenerate inflationary pressures which
make it difficult either to live with the
controls or to live without them.
We have had in 1973 an extraordinary
combination of circumstances making for
rapid inflation. There was a decline of
domestic food supplies. The domestic
economy boomed at an exceptional pace,
generating powerful demand for goods
and services. The boom in other countries
and the devaluation of the dollar, while
desirable from most points of view,
raised the prices of things we export or
import.
These forces caused a sharp rise of
prices in early 1973. The index of con-
sumer prices rose at an annual rate of
about 8 percent from December 1972 to
May 1973. The freeze imposed on June 13
put a halt to this rapid rise of prices. But
many of the cost increases and demand
pressures working to raise prices in the
early part of the year had not yet resulted
in higher prices by the time the freeze
was imposed. Thus a certain built-in pres-
sure for a bulge of price increases awaits
the end of the freeze. Moreover, aside
from this undigested bulge left over by the
freeze, the circumstances causing the
sharp price increase in early 1973 will still
be present, although not on so long a
scale. The demand for goods and services
will be rising less rapidly than in the first
half of the year. The supply of food will
be rising, although not fast enough. Our
position in international trade is improv-
ing, and this will lend strength to the
dollar.
All in all, the tendency for prices to rise
in the remainder of 1973, a tendency
which will either come out in higher prices
or be repressed by controls, will be less
than in the first half of the year but
greater than anyone would like. Particu-
larly, there is no way, with or without
648
