Richard Nixon, 1973
July 23 [213]
212 Message to the Senate Transmitting the International
Coffee Agreement 1968 as Extended. July 23, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the
advice and consent of the Senate to ac-
ceptance, the International Coffee Agree-
ment 1968 as Extended. This modified
and extended agreement, which was
adopted by the International Coffee
Council in its Resolution No. 264 of
April 14, 1973, deletes all operative eco-
nomic provisions but preserves the struc-
ture of the International Coffee Organi-
zation through September 30, 1975.
The International Coffee Agreement
1968 as modified and extended will con-
tinue the decade-long cooperation on
world trade in the most important agri-
cultural commodity export of the develop-
ing world. But, in view of the changed
coffee market outlook from one of surplus
to one of tight supply, the extended agree-
ment no longer contains provisions for
intervening in the market. It will keep the
International Coffee Organization alive
as a forum for studying and discussing the
world coffee economy, for monitoring
coffee developments and, when the mem-
bers deem it appropriate, for negotiating
a new coffee agreement to serve the in-
terests of coffee producers and consumers.
I believe continuing United States par-
ticipation in the extended agreement will
advance our interests in two ways. First,
by that participation we can demonstrate
concretely our readiness to work together
with developing nations on matters of
vital economic interest to them. Secondly,
we can ensure that we will have a voice in
the negotiation of any new international
trade arrangements on coffee-arrange-
ments in which we as the importers of al-
most 40 percent of international traded
coffee have a significant stake. I am con-
fident that we can achieve both these ob-
jectives in a manner fully consistent with
the interests of our consumers.
I am also transmitting, for the informa-
tion of the Senate, the report submitted to
me by the Department of State explaining
the provisions of the International Coffee
Agreement 1968 as modified and ex-
tended, and providing background on the
operation of the Agreement and on the
current state of the world coffee economy.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
July 23, 1973.
NOTE: The text of the agreement and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Execu-
tive O (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
213 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Customs
Convention on the International Transit of Goods.
July 23, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate to ratifica-
tion, the Customs Convention on the
International Transit of Goods (ITI
Convention) opened for signature at
Vienna June 7, 1971.
For the information of the Senate, I
659
