[246] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
the inevitable result is that they will lose
their markets, and other sources will be
developed.
THE PRESIDENT'S PROPERTIES AND
FINANCES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, there have been
some conflicting reports about your real
estate dealings in California, and I would
like to ask about that. Several different
versions have been released by the White
House, both as to your own personal
financial involvement and as to the Gov-
ernment's expenditures in San Clemente
and at Key Biscayne, and your auditors, I
understand from news reports, say that the
entire audit has not been released on your
financial dealings out there.
I would like to ask you why we have
had so many conflicting reports to start
with, and second, one of the questions that
is raised by the only partial release of the
audit is, have you paid the taxes on the
gain realized in the sale of the land to
Rebozo and Abplanalp at San Clemente?
THE PRESIDENT. Any other questions
you want to go into?
Of course, whatever a President does
in the field of his property is public knowl-
edge, and questions of that sort I do not
resent at all. I do resent, I might say, the
implications, however, first, that whether
at Key Biscayne or in San Clemente my
private property was enriched because of
what the Government did.
As a matter of fact, what the Govern-
ment did at San Clemente reduced the
value of the property. If you see three
Secret Service gazebos and if you see some
of the other fences that block out the
rather beautiful view to the hills and the
mountains that I like, you would realize
that what I say is quite true; it reduces
its value as far as a residential property is
concerned.
The second point is this: At rather
considerable expense, and a great deal of
time on my part, I ordered an audit, an
audit by a firm highly respected, Coopers
& Lybrand of New York. That audit has
been completed.' It covered at my request
not simply the last year, but it covered
the years 1969, 1970, 1971, and 1972.
The audit has been completed, and the
audit gave the lie to the reports that were
carried, usually in eight-column heads in
most of the papers of this country-and,
incidentally, the retractions ended back
up with the corset ads for the most part-
but on the other hand, it gave the lie to
the charge that there was $1 million worth
of campaign funds, that that is how I
acquired the property in San Clemente.
It also gave the lie to any other charges
that as far as my acquisitions in Florida
are concerned, or in California, that there
was any money there except my own.
Now, I would make two or three other
points briefly about it that I think all lay-
men could understand. I borrowed the
money to acquire the property, and I still
owe it. I own no stocks and no bonds-I
think I am the first President in this office
since Harry Truman-I don't own a stock
or a bond. I sold everything before I came
into office.
'On August 27, 1973, the White House re-
leased an announcement of the Coopers & Ly-
brand audit of the transactions in connection
with the President's properties in California
and Florida. The announcement and the text
of a letter to the President and Mrs. Nixon
from Coopers & Lybrand detailing the results
of the audit are printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p.
1036).
736
