[235] Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I say further that no future Ameri-
can President should ever send Americans
into battle with one hand tied behind their
backs.
But now we have been talking about
war. Let me turn from war to peace. Let
me turn to it in a way that may be of
great interest to you, particularly again
to those of you, the young people who still
read history and perhaps remember it. I
read it many years ago but find it more
difficult to remember as time goes on. But
you all remember Waterloo, and you all
remember, of course, the great hero of
Waterloo on the British, or allied, side, the
Duke of Wellington, and people think of
him only as a man of war. Of course, he
had basically two careers. He was a
great general, and then after that served as
a prime minister for many, many years in
Britain in the early 19th century. But in
reading the biography of Wellington, it is
interesting to note and this is something
that I know that every person in this room
will agree with that after every battle,
battles which he won he did not lose
any he had a feeling of depression, and
the depression was because he had seen
brave men die on both sides. Whether it
was the battles in India he won or the
Peninsular War, the Lowlands, or Water-
loo, there was always that feeling, but it
was in Waterloo, and after Waterloo only,
that immortal words were spoken by Wel-
lington that I know will mean something
to each one of us here as you give the
President of the United States and I ac-
cept it as President for all Presidents who
worked for peace because everyone
wants peace. After the battle of Waterloo,
and as Wellington looked over that field
of battle, and he saw the brave British
soldiers and the Prussian soldiers from
Blücher's army and Napoleon's soldiers
lying there in the field, he said, there is
only one thing worse than losing a battle.
and that is winning it.
Think about that a moment. What
he is really saving is that war is an answer
to no problems, and winning a war, even
in that time when war would not have
destroved civilization, left the winner feel-
ing that there is only one thing worse
than losing a war, and that is winning a
war.
What I am saying here today to you is
that as we finish the longest war in Amer-
ica's history with honor, as we look to
the future. I want to pledge to the Veter-
ans of Foreign Wars and to the American
people that I am going to continue to
work to build a lasting peace so that our
children will not have the legacy that we
have, a war every generation in this cen-
tury World War I. World War II.
Korea, and then Vietnam. That is enough.
What we have to do is to build a struc-
ture of peace for the whole world. I know
that the big news as far as 1972 is con-
cerned, and what immediately followed
in January of last year, was the ending of
the war in Vietnam. But other news was
being made which is even more important
in determining the future of this Nation
for years and years to come and the future
of peace in the world.
There was the first trip of a President of
the United States to Moscow. There was,
at the occasion of that trip, the negotiation
of many agreements, but a nuclear arms
control agreement, and then another one
this year, the beginning of a long process
of negotiation rather than confrontation
between two super powers, each of which
has the total strength within itself to de-
stroy the other, but will not do so without
708
