Appendix B
May
3 Mabel Liang, 1972 National Outstanding
Teenager, called on the President at the
White House. She was accompanied by
Representative Edward J. Derwinski of
Illinois.
3 Senator Jesse A. Helms and a group of citi-
zens from Greensboro, N.C., called on the
President at the White House to give him
a set of cufflinks to replace a set lost during
his campaign visit to North Carolina on
November 4, 1972.
3 Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Vice Chief of
Staff of the Army, met with the President
at the White House.
7 Former Secretary of the Treasury John B.
Connally met with the President at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
8 Representative Edward P. Boland of Massa-
chusetts and members of the Tercentenary
Celebration Committee of Brookfield,
Mass., called on the President at the White
House.
8 Brazilian soccer player Edson Arantes do
Nacimento (Pelé) met with the President
at the White House. The President ex-
pressed his appreciation to Pelé for his
contributions to better understanding be-
tween nations through sports.
8 Members of the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee met with the President at the White
House to report on their recent visit to the
Soviet Union.
9 George Bush, Republican National Chair-
man, Senator Bill Brock of Tennessee, Rep-
resentative Robert H. Michel of Illinois,
and David K. Wilson, chairman of the Re-
publican National Finance Committee, met
with the President at the White House and
presented him with medals commemorating
his foreign policy achievements.
10 Members of the Republican leadership of
the Congress met with the President at the
White House.
May
10 The President met at the White House with
members of the Cabinet.
10 Representative Gene Taylor and former
Representative Dewey Short of Missouri
called on the President at the White House.
II The White House announced that the Gov-
ernments of the Democratic Republic of
Vietnam and the United States agreed to
hold discussions in order to review the
implementation of the Paris Agreement on
Ending the War and Restoring Peace in
Vietnam, and to find measures to bring
about the strict implementation of that
agreement. Mr. Le Duc Tho, representative
of the Government of the DRVN, and
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, would
meet for this purpose in Paris on May 17,
1973.
11 Henry A. Kissinger met with the Presi-
dent at the White House to report on meet-
ings he had with leaders in the Soviet Un-
ion, beginning on May 4, and the United
Kingdom, beginning May 9, to exchange
views on matters of mutual interest.
11 Secretary of State William P. Rogers met
with the President at the White House for
consultation prior to the start of his 17-day
visit to eight Latin American countries.
Henry A. Kissinger participated in the
meeting.
11 John C. Slemp, editor emeritus of the
American Baptist magazine, of Rosemont,
Pa., called on the President at the White
House.
15 Representative Stanford E. Parris of Vir-
ginia and Robert G. Goodnough, executive
director of the Manassas, Va., Centennial
Commission, called on the President to pre-
sent him with the first of 50 sterling silver
coins struck to commemorate the 100th
anniversary of Manassas, Va.
1073
