79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
sentence is prohibited if the jury finds the
existence of one or more mitigating
factors.
Current statutes containing the death
penalty would be amended to eliminate
the requirement for jury recommenda-
tion, thus limiting the imposition of the
death penalty to cases in which the legis-
lative guidelines for its imposition clearly
require it, and eliminating arbitrary and
capricious application of the death
penalty which the Supreme Court has
condemned in the Furman case.
DRUG ABUSE
No single law enforcement problem
has occupied more time, effort and money
in the past four years than that of drug
abuse and drug addiction. We have re-
garded drugs as "public enemy number
one," destroying the most precious re-
source we have our young people—and
breeding lawlessness, violence and death.
When this Administration assumed of-
fice in 1969, only $82 million was budgeted
by the Federal Government for law en-
forcement, prevention, and rehabilita-
tion in the field of drug abuse.
Today that figure has been increased
to $785 million for 1974-nearly 10 times
as much. Narcotics production has been
disrupted, more traffickers and distribu-
tors have been put out of business, and
addicts and abusers have been treated and
started on the road to rehabilitation.
Since last June, the supply of heroin on
the East Coast has been substantially re-
duced. The scarcity of heroin in our big
Eastern cities has driven up the price of
an average "fix" from $4.31 to $9.88, en-
couraging more addicts to seek medical
treatment. At the same time the heroin
content of that fix has dropped from 6.5
to 3.7 percent.
Meanwhile, through my Cabinet Com-
mittee on International Narcotics Con-
trol, action plans are underway to help
59 foreign countries develop and carry out
their own national control programs.
These efforts, linked with those of the
Bureau of Customs and the Bureau of
Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, have
produced heartening results.
Our worldwide narcotics seizures
almost tripled in 1972 over 1971. Seizures
by our anti-narcotics allies abroad are at
an all-time high.
In January, 1972, the French seized a
half-ton of heroin on a shrimp boat
headed for this country. Argentine, Bra-
zilian and Venezuelan agents seized 285
pounds of heroin in three raids in 1972,
and with twenty arrests crippled the ex-
isting French-Latin American connec-
tion. The ringleader was extradited to the
U.S. by Paraguay and has just begun to
serve a 20-year sentence in Federal
prison.
Thailand's Special Narcotics Organiza-
tion recently seized a total of almost eleven
tons of opium along the Burmese border,
as well as a half-ton of morphine and
heroin.
Recently Iran scored the largest opium
seizure on record-over 12 tons taken
from smugglers along the Afghanistan
border.
Turkey, as a result of a courageous deci-
sion by the government under Prime
Minister Erim in 1971, has prohibited all
cultivation of opium within her borders.
These results are all the more gratify-
ing in light of the fact that heroin is
wholly a foreign import to the United
States. We do not grow opium here; we do
198
