[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Democratic leaders who have a strong
majority on this group that I have named,
agree that he should be removed, and I
do not expect that that time will come.
As to what I can tell the American
people, this is one forum, and there may
be others. As to what the situation is as
to when it can be done, it is, of course,
necessary to let the grand jury proceed as
quickly as possible to a conclusion. And I
should point out to you, as you may recall,
Mr. Petersen testified before the Ervin
committee that when he was removed
from his position-you recall he was re-
moved in April, and a Special Prosecutor
was put in—that the case was 90 percent
ready. For 6 months, under the Special
Prosecutor who was then appointed, the
case has not been brought to a conclusion.
And I think that now, after 6 months
of delay, it is time that the case be brought
to a conclusion. If it was 90 percent fin-
ished in April, they ought to be able to
finish it now.
Those who are guilty, or presumed to
be guilty, should be indicted. Those who
are not guilty at least should get some
evidence of being cleared, because in the
meantime, the reputations of men, some
maybe who are not guilty, have been
probably irreparably damaged by what
has happened in the hearings that they
have appeared before publicly. They have
already been convicted and they may
never recover. And that isn't our system
of government.
The place to try a man or a woman for
a crime is in the courts and not to convict
them either in the newspapers or on tele-
vision before he has a fair trial in the
courts.
JOHN EHRLICHMAN AND H. R. HALDEMAN
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Hai-
man from the St. Petersburg Times in St.
Petersburg, Florida. When Mr. Ehrlich-
man and Mr. Haldeman left your Admin-
istration, you said they were guiltless in
the Watergate affair, and they were,
quote, two of the finest public servants
you had ever known, end quote. After
what has transpired and been revealed
since then, do you still feel the same way
about both men and both statements?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I hold that both
men and others who have been charged
are guilty until I have evidence that they
are not guilty, and I know that every
newspaperman and newspaperwoman in
this whole audience would agree with that
statement. That is our American system.
Second, Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlich-
man had been and were dedicated, fine
public servants, and I believe, it is my
belief based on what I know now, that
when these proceedings are completed
that they will come out all right.
On the other hand, they have appeared
before the grand jury before, they will be
appearing again, and as I pointed out in
answer to an earlier question, it probably
does not make any difference, unfortu-
nately, whether the grand jury indicts
them or not, whether they are tried or
not, because, unfortunately, they have al-
ready been convicted in the minds of mil-
lions of Americans by what happened
before a Senate committee.
'Later in the session, it was pointed out that
the President had misspoken. See page 954, at
[9].
952
