[162] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
pended in 1966. These in turn had
include authorization for surreptitious
entry-breaking and entering, in effect-
on specified categories of targets in speci-
fied situations related to national security.
Because the approval was withdrawn
before it had been implemented, the net
result was that the plan for expanded in-
telligence activities never went into effect.
The documents spelling out this 1970
plan are extremely sensitive. They in-
clude-and are based upon-assessments
of certain foreign intelligence capabilities
and procedures, which of course must re-
main secret. It was this unused plan and
related documents that John Dean re-
moved from the White House and placed
in a safe deposit box, giving the keys to
Judge Sirica. The same plan, still unused,
is being headlined today.
Coordination among our intelligence
agencies continued to fall short of our
national security needs. In July 1970, hav-
ing earlier discontinued the FBI's liaison
with the CIA, Director Hoover ended the
FBI's normal liaison with all other agen-
cies except the White House. To help
remedy this, an Intelligence Evaluation
Committee was created in December
1970. Its members included representa-
tives of the White House, CIA, FBI, NSA,
the Departments of Justice, Treasury, and
Defense, and the Secret Service.
The Intelligence Evaluation Commit-
tee and its staff were instructed to improve
coordination among the intelligence com-
munity and to prepare evaluations and
estimates of domestic intelligence. I under-
stand that its activities are now under in-
vestigation. I did not authorize nor do I
have any knowledge of any illegal activity
by this Committee. If it went beyond its
charter and did engage in any illegal
activities, it was totally without my knowl-
edge or authority.
THE SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT
On Sunday, June 13, 1971, the New
York Times published the first installment
of what came to be known as "The Penta-
gon Papers." Not until a few hours before
publication did any responsible Govern-
ment official know that they had been
stolen. Most officials did not know they
existed. No senior official of the Govern-
ment had read them or knew with cer-
tainty what they contained.
All the Government knew, at first, was
that the papers comprised 47 volumes and
some 7,000 pages, which had been taken
from the most sensitive files of the Depart-
ments of State and Defense and the CIA,
covering military and diplomatic moves
in a war that was still going on.
Moreover, a majority of the documents
published with the first three installments
in the Times had not been included in
the 47-volume study--raising serious
questions about what and how much else
might have been taken.
There was every reason to believe this
was a security leak of unprecedented pro-
portions.
It created a situation in which the abil-
ity of the Government to carry on foreign
relations even in the best of circum-
stances could have been severely compro-
mised. Other governments no longer
knew whether they could deal with the
United States in confidence. Against the
background of the delicate negotiations
the United States was then involved in on
a number of fronts-with regard to Viet-
nam, China, the Middle East, nuclear
arms limitations, U.S.-Soviet relations,
550
