[237] Aug. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
selves to their country as you have, with
your eight years of distinguished service
as Deputy Attorney General and Attorney
General in President Eisenhower's Ad-
ministration, and now having carried the
heavy responsibilities of Secretary of State
for four and a half years at a particularly
crucial time in the evolution of the Na-
tion's foreign policies. Throughout, your
service has been completely dedicated
and completely selfless. The Nation owes
you an enormous debt of gratitude.
As Secretary of State, you have repre-
sented this country abroad with great
skill. You have played an historic role in
the formulation and execution of those
policies which I believe, and I know you
believe, can at long last produce a struc-
ture of peace in the world that will en-
dure long into the future, and that will
make it possible for differences among na-
tions to be settled at the negotiating table
rather than on the battlefield. This is an
achievement of which you should be im-
mensely proud, just as I am immensely
proud of the vital contribution you have
made to it.
Not only in foreign policy, but also on
the wide range of other issues on which
I have sought your advice, it has always
been given with candor and courage and
with exceptional insight. I have appre-
ciated this greatly, and the Nation is much
the better for your service- service which
I know has been at great personal
sacrifice.
Pat joins me in wishing you and Adele
the very best in the years ahead, and in
trusting that we will continue to see both
of you often.
With warmest regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's letter was dated Aug-
ust 20, 1973, and released August 22 at San
Clemente, Calif.
Secretary Rogers' letter of resignation, dated
August 16 and released with the President's
letter, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I herewith submit my resignation as Sec-
retary of State effective September 3, 1973
Because of our personal friendship which
has extended over such a long period of time
I take this action with a bit of sadness. You
will recall, though, that when I accepted the
post I did it with a firm resolve to return to
the private practice of the law at the end of
your first term of office However, because of
several pressing matters, particularly the clos
ing phase of our involvement in the war in
Viet-Nam, an uncertain cease-fire in the
Middle East, the initial phase of the Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
and the need for immediate attention to our
relations with NATO, CENTO, Japan, South
Korea and our Latin American allies it was
agreed that I should stay on for awhile.
Now that the United States has ended its long
war in Indochina: that the cease-fire in the
Middle East has had its third anniversary; that
the first phase of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe has ended satisfac-
torily; and that our relations with our allies as
well as with the Soviet Union and the People's
Republic of China are on a good basis I be-
lieve the time is right for a change.
It has been a great privilege and honor to
serve the nation as Secretary of State during
the last four and one-half years. Under your
strong and effective leadership the conduct of
our foreign affairs has been marked with ex-
traordinary success Because of your policies,
initiative and resolve, and the loyal support
and assistance of many others including those
in the State Department with whom I have
been privileged to be associated, the world is
a much more peaceful place than it was four
and one-half years ago.
Under your leadership we are on the way
to constructing a structure of international re-
lationships which gives hope of providing peace
and stability for future generations. It is the
completion of this task especially which is so
726
