[110] Apr. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
April 10, 1972. At the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament in Geneva,
the problems associated with control of
chemical warfare through international
law were subjected to patient and careful
examination. The number of nations ad-
hering to the Nonproliferation Treaty has
now reached 76 and successful negotia-
tions on safeguard arrangements have
paved the way for ratification by key
European countries.
Much has been accomplished, but
much remains to be done. With the be-
ginning of my second term in office, I
rededicate my Administration to the goal
of bringing the instruments of warfare
under effective and verifiable control.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 9, 1973.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Arms Control
Report, 12th Annual Report to the Congress"
(51 pp. plus appendixes).
III Remarks on Transmitting a Special Message to the
Congress on Proposed Trade Reform Legislation.
April 10, 1973
THE TRADE BILL I am sending to the
Congress today can mean more jobs and
better jobs for American workmen.
It can help American consumers get
more for their money.
It can help us expand our trade, and
thus expand prosperity in America.
And most importantly, these proposals
can help us reduce international tensions
and strengthen the structure of peace in
the world.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed in
the Oval Office at the White House on April 9,
1973, for use on radio and television the follow-
ing day.
Congress Proposing Trade.
112 Special Message to the
Reform Legislation. April 10, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
The Trade Reform Act of 1973, which
I am today proposing to the Congress,
calls for the most important changes in
more than a decade in America's ap-
proach to world trade.
This legislation can mean more and
better jobs for American workers.
It can help American consumers get
more for their money.
It can mean expanding trade and ex-
panding prosperity, for the United States
and for our trading partners alike.
Most importantly, these proposals can
help us reduce international tensions and
strengthen the structure of peace.
The need for trade reform is urgent.
The task of trade reform requires an effec-
tive, working partnership between the
executive and legislative branches. The
legislation I submit today has been de-
veloped in close consultation with the
Congress and it envisions continuing co-
operation after it is enacted. I urge the
Congress to examine these proposals in a
spirit of constructive partnership and to
258
