[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
strated the continuing success of Viet-
namization. The 1969 Communist attacks
made little headway because the enemy
had suffered heavy losses in their Tet Of-
fensive the year before and our own forces
were still at a peak level. In the 1970 Cam-
bodia operation, the South Vietnamese
conducted large scale military operations
of their own alongside U.S. forces. In 1971
in Laos our allies carried on all of the
ground combat while our role was
limited to air and logistic support. At each
stage the South Vietnamese did more and
we did less; and after each stage we were
able to accelerate the shifting of respon-
sibilities, In 1972, when the most severe
test of all came, the South Vietnamese
were ready.
By early 1972, South Vietnam had
made impressive progress across the
board. Militarily, its forces had taken
over virtually all of the ground fighting
and much of the close air support mission.
Over one million civilians had joined the
People's Self-Defense Forces. The gov-
ernment had the confidence to supply this
local militia with weapons. The pacifica-
tion program was succeeding. Eighty per-
cent of the population lived in areas un-
der government control. Nearly all of
South Vietnam's 2,200 villages had
elected their own local leaders. Compre-
hensive economic reforms had cut the rate
of inflation and stabilized South Viet-
nam's economy. Industrial output, ex-
ports, and tax revenues had reached their
highest point in many years. A vigorous
land reform program had transferred
nearly one million acres of farm land to
former tenants, and the government had
established a widespread system of low
interest agricultural loans. The rice har-
vest promised a bumper crop, thanks in
part to high yield grains introduced with
our assistance. School attendance and
classroom construction had reached new
high levels. Nearly one million refugees-
most of them displaced by the Commu-
nists' Tet Offensive in 1968-had resettled
or were being cared for.
In the spring of 1972, faced with South
Vietnam's growing military, economic,
and political strength, North Vietnam
launched its most massive challenge. On
March 30, its troops poured through the
Demilitarized Zone separating North and
South Vietnam which the 1954 Geneva
Agreements had established. In so do-
ing, Hanoi abandoned its previous tactics
and fundamentally changed the nature of
the fighting, for it employed almost its en-
tire army in an all-out frontal assault.
This challenge came just as we were
trying to revive private negotiations in
Paris to get a response to a comprehensive
U.S.-GVN peace proposal that had been
tabled on January 27, 1972. While Hanoi
was preparing its major military assault-
and even after it was underway-we tried
every route of restraint. After months of
effort, we finally arranged a secret meeting
in Paris on May 2 with the North Viet-
namese. This proved abortive as they re-
jected all possibilities for de-escalation or
for settlement. They were obviously deter-
mined to settle matters through military
action.
South Vietnamese valor and America's
forceful support blunted the Communist
offensive. On May 8, faced with aggres-
sion in Vietnam and intransigence in
Paris, I announced that we were mining
all major North Vietnamese ports and
were resuming air and naval attacks in
North Vietnam to interdict the flow of
troops and supplies into the South. At
the same time, I held out the alternative
of a peaceful settlement along lines that
380
