Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [163]
of peace, whether or not the world you
come back to, the America you come back
to, is a better world or is it, shall we say,
a world that is not as safe as when you
went to Hanoi or whatever area you were
kept in captivity.
I cannot put it in the context of 62
or 7 years, which some of you, of course,
have been away. But I can put it in the
context of the years I have been in this
office. And perhaps we can see in per-
spective where we have been and where
we are, but more important, where we are
going to go.
First, when I came into this office 42
years ago, 300 a week were being killed
in action in Vietnam. There was no plan
to end the war, no hope that it was going
to be ended. Many of you were already
prisoners of war. You had no hope.
Looking at the world scene, the United
States had no communication whatever,
in any meaningful sense, with the leaders
of one-fourth of all the people in the
world, those who govern the People's Re-
public of China. We were in constant
confrontation with the Soviet Union, the
other super power on the Earth, with no
thought or even hope that there was a
chance for arms control or trade or a les-
sening of tension between these two great
super powers.
There were other troubled areas in the
world. Some of them still are troubled.
But looking at those three areas and seeing
what has happened since, and then look-
ing at the United States, we see some
progress has been made.
Also 42 years ago, this Nation was torn
by riots. Hundreds of campuses were in
flames. The American people seemed to
have lost their way. There was a desire
to move away from responsibilities in the
world. There was a lack of national pride,
a lack of patriotism. I don't mean among
all the people, not even among a majority,
but it was there. There was a crisis in
terms of whether America, the greatest
hope for peace in the world today, would
dash that hope or whether it would be
worthy of that hope. That was the situa-
tion 42 years ago.
Now in describing that situation, I do
not speak critically of those who preceded
me in this office. President Eisenhower,
John Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson loved
this country. They worked for peace as
I have tried to work for peace. They felt
for you as I feel for you.
What I am simply saying is that in
January of 1969 we did have a critical
situation, and we started to move on it.
And how I wish we could have moved
faster. I remember that first Christmas
in '69. I met with a group of the repre-
sentatives of the League of Families down
in the library,ยน and I talked to these won-
derful, remarkable women, and I saw their
faith and their courage and their love of
country, and I heard them tell me that
their husbands had not gone to Vietnam
simply for the purpose of getting back.
In other words, they rejected totally the
idea of "Get out, if you will give us our
prisoners."
They said, in effect, and they didn't put
it this way, but one of you put it very
well, "Bring our men home, but bring
them home on their feet and not on their
knees." And that is what we have done.
And so that was our goal over those 4
years. That is why we couldn't achieve it
perhaps quite as fast as we would have
liked.
But the year 1972 saw remarkable
progress, as you know. The year 1972,
1
ยน See 1969 volume, Item 484.
557
