[126] Apr. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
well, we are very grateful for the contri-
bution that has been made to this Nation
by the sons and daughters of Italian
background. We would like to have all of
them here tonight to honor you, but the
room will not seat 10 million.
And now to those who are here, I would
like to present the Prime Minister. When
I was a freshman Congressman in 1947,
I took my first trip to Europe. I spent 3
weeks in Italy, studying the needs of Italy
for reconstruction, which eventually
ended in the Marshall Plan. I met many
outstanding leaders on that trip, but I
was fortunate to meet and know one of
the giants.
We think back to that period, 27 years
ago: Churchill, Eisenhower, Adenauer,
de Gaulle. But a name not forgotten by
any who knew him, but perhaps not well
remembered by people who did not live
through that period, one of the true giants
of the post-war period, one of the men
who helped to build the free Atlantic
community that we presently enjoy, was
Alcide De Gasperi.¹
I remember how I, as a freshman Con-
gressman, was impressed by this eloquent,
sincere, intelligent, and very strong man.
And it is interesting to me that the man
whom we honor tonight has written a
book about De Gasperi and that many in
his country and in the world say that
Prime Minister Andreotti is in the tradi-
tion of De Gasperi.
I have talked to him today. I know his
background. I can only say that our
honored guest is in that great tradition.
He leads a strong nation and a strong
people, and like De Gasperi, he is a strong
man, the kind of a man that his nation, his
¹ Prime Minister of Italy (1945–53).
people, and the free world needs at this
time.
And for that reason, and many others,
I know all of you will want to join me in
a toast to Prime Minister Andreotti and
Mrs. Andreotti.
To the Prime Minister. Salute.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:49 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
The President met with Prime Minister An-
dreotti at the White House on April 17 and 18.
See also Item 124.
The Prime Minister responded to the Presi
dent's toast in Italian. His remarks were trans-
lated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
I wish to thank you first of all-to repeat
my warm thanks to you and to Mrs. Nixon for
your very kind hospitality and reception, and
I would like to continue in what you just said,
and to the figure of De Gasperi whom you just
remembered, by saying that De Gasperi taught
us two things: First, there are no problems of
one nation, there are only problems of the en-
tire world. And secondly, he taught us that
one should never be afraid of things even when
something is very difficult, and in fact, he was
not afraid of forming a government without
Communists and without Socialists at a time
when this seemed impossible.
The third thing which De Gasperi taught us
was to initiate the creation of a united Europe
and at the same time to maintain the solidarity
and friendship between Europe and the United
States.
I think that in the few words which I would
like to say tonight, I may quote a sentence of
Thomas Jefferson, who said in 1801, "Peace,
trade, honorable friendship with all, and close
alliances with few."
So this should be our star, the star which
should always guide us and inspire us in our
policy.
This morning at the lunch offered by the Sec-
retary of State, I said that history teaches us
one thing, that every time that Italy and
Europe went in the same direction as the
United States, things went well for the entire
world, and the opposite was true when there
300
