[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
party to reduce exports of products which
cause market disruptions in the other
country. While I have no reason to doubt
that the Soviet Union will meet its ob-
ligations under this clause if the need
arises, we should still have authority to
take unilateral action to prevent disrup-
tion if such action is warranted.
Because of the special way in which
state-trading countries market their prod-
ucts abroad, I would recommend two
modifications in the way we take such ac-
tion. First, the Tariff Commission should
only have to find "material injury" rather
than "serious injury" from imports in or-
der to impose appropriate restraints. Sec-
ondly, such restraints should apply only to
exports from the offending country. These
recommendations can simplify our laws re-
lating to dumping actions by state-trad-
ing countries, eliminating the difficult and
time-consuming problems associated with
trying to reach a constructed value for
their exports.
Authority.
Balance of Payments
Though it should only be used in excep-
tional circumstances, trade policy can
sometimes be an effective supplementary
tool for dealing with our international
payments imbalances. I therefore request
more flexible authority to raise or
lower import restrictions on a temporary
basis to help correct deficits or surpluses
in our payments position. Such restraints
could be applied to imports from all
countries across the board or only to those
countries which fail to correct a persistent
and excessive surplus in their global pay-
ments position.
Anti-Inflation Authority. My trade rec-
ommendations also include a proposal I
made on March 30th as a part of this Ad-
ministration's effort to curb the rising cost
of living. I asked the Congress at that
time to give the President new, permanent
authority to reduce certain import bar-
riers temporarily and to a limited extent
when he determined that such action was
necessary to relieve inflationary pressures
within the United States. I again urge
prompt approval for this important
weapon in our war against inflation.
Generalized Tarifi Preferences. Another
significant provision of my proposed bill
would permit the United States to join
with other developed countries, including
Japan and the members of the European
Community, in helping to improve the
access of poorer nations to the markets of
developed countries. Under this arrange-
ment, certain products of developing na-
tions would benefit from preferential
treatment for a ten-year period, creating
new export opportunities for such coun-
tries, raising their foreign exchange earn-
ings, and permitting them to finance those
higher levels of imports that are essential
for more rapid economic growth.
This legislation would allow duty-free
treatment for a broad range of manufac-
tured and semi-manufactured products
and for a selected list of agricultural and
primary products which are now regu-
lated only by tariffs. It is our intention to
exclude certain import-sensitive products
such as textile products, footwear, watches
and certain steel products from such
preferential treatment, along with prod-
ucts which are now subject to outstanding
orders restricting imports. As is the case
for the multilateral negotiations author-
ity, public hearing procedures would be
held before such preferences were granted
and preferential imports would be subject
to the import relief provisions which I
have recommended above. Once a par-
ticular product from a given country be-
came fully competitive, however, it would
!
266
