[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
between adversaries are ameliorated, those
not directly involved tend to worry that
their own interests are somehow subordi-
nate to new relationships.
But the United States will never com-
promise the security of Europe or the in-
terests of our allies. The best reassurance
of our unity, however, lies not in verbal
pledges but in the knowledge of agreed
purposes and common policies. For almost
a decade the Alliance has debated ques-
tions of defense and détente-some urging
one course, others a different priority.
Now the debates should end. We must
close ranks and chart our course together
for the decade ahead. There is an obvious
agenda for Alliance action.
-The United States supports Euro-
pean unity, as we always have. But
now we need to define together the
basis of cooperative economic rela-
tions between the United States and
the European Community in this
decade. To do this, we need a new
affirmation of our common goals, to
give political direction to our eco-
nomic negotiations and promote co-
operative solutions.
-The United States will maintain its
forces in Europe. We will not with-
draw unilaterally. But together we
need to agree on our common defense
requirements and on the contribu-
tions each ally and the Alliance col-
lectively must make to preserve our
security in new conditions.
-We need a concerted strategy for
dealing with security and diplomatic
issues of common concern, in what-
ever forum these are pursued.
-In the 1970's we face new common
issues, such as ensuring the supply
of energy resources for industrialized
nations. This must be a new area of
our cooperation.
1973 is the year of Europe because of
the historic opportunities we face to-
gether. The United States, Canada, and
Western Europe have a decisive contribu-
tion to make to a healthy world economy
and to a new peaceful international order.
These are new creative tasks for our
partnership.
JAPAN
Today we see a new Japan. Her emer-
gence is one of the most striking new fea-
tures of the international landscape of the
1970's and one of the most dramatic trans-
formations since the period following the
Second World War. To speak of Japan's
phenomenal economic performance has
long been commonplace. Less noted, more
recent and of fundamental impor-
tance is the impact of this power on the
international political order. This is a
challenge for Japanese policy, for Ameri-
can policy, and for the alliance that binds
us together.
-In the economic dimension, Japan is
a superpower. By 1968 she was the
world's third greatest industrial na-
tion, and she may become the second
greatest within a decade's time. Her
rate of real growth annually in the
1960's was 11.3 percent, the fastest of
any industrial nation. She impacts
upon the world as a trading power
of enormous strength: over the pe-
riod 1968-1971 her exports grew
faster than 20 percent per year. In
1971, she ran an extraordinary trade
surplus of $4.1 billion with the
United States, $1 billion with the
European Community, and $9 billion
with the world as a whole. A chronic
416
