Appendix B
January
15 The White House announced that because
of the progress made in the negotiations be-
tween Henry A. Kissinger and Special Ad-
viser Le Duc Tho, President Nixon di-
rected that the bombing, shelling, and any
further mining of North Vietnam be sus-
pended. This order went into effect at 10
a.m. on January 15, Washington time. The
directive applied to action north of the
17th parallel, the entire area of North
Vietnam.
15 The President telephoned football coaches
Don Shula of the Miami Dolphins and
George Allen of the Washington Redskins
following the Dolphins' victory in the
Super Bowl in Los Angeles. Earlier the
President had sent telegrams to the two
coaches.
15 The President received the report of the
White House Conference on the Industrial
World Ahead entitled "A Look at Busi-
ness in 1990" (Government Printing Office,
369 pp.).
18 The President conferred by telephone
with the Republican National Chairman,
Senator Robert Dole, and the members of
the nominating committee of the Repub-
lican National Committee on the subject
of a successor to Senator Dole. During the
traditional conference between the Presi-
dent and the nominating committee, the
President recommended that the name of
George Bush be placed in nomination
when the committee met on January 19
to select a new chairman.
19 The President and the First Family at-
tended the inaugural concerts at the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts.
20 Prior to departing for the inaugural cere-
monies, the President and the First Lady
hosted a reception in the Blue Room at
the White House for Vice President and
Mrs. Agnew, members of the Joint Con-
gressional Escort Committee, and the
inaugural chairman, J. Willard Marriott,
and Mrs. Marriott.
January
21 Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., met with
the President and Henry A. Kissinger at
the White House to report on his meetings
in Southeast Asia with President Nguyen
Van Thieu of South Vietnam and officials
in Thailand, Laos, and Cambodia.
24 The President met at the White House
with the Cabinet to discuss the fiscal 1974
budget.
26 The President met at the White House, first
with Republican Congressional leaders and
then with the bipartisan Congressional
leadership, to discuss the fiscal 1974
budget.
26 Foreign Minister Adam Malik of Indonesia
met with the President at the White House.
The Foreign Minister was in Washington
to attend the funeral of former President
Lyndon B. Johnson.
30 The Governments of the United States and
the Soviet Union mutually agreed that they
would resume negotiations on limiting stra-
tegic arms, in Geneva on March 12, 1973,
rather than on February 27, 1973, as pre-
viously announced. The postponement was
agreed to in order to allow time to put staff
in place under the new head of the United
States delegation, U. Alexis Johnson.
30 Tran Van Lam, Foreign Minister of the
Republic of Vietnam, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
30 On behalf of the President, his daughter
and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Edward F.
Cox, greeted the mayor of Moscow, Vladi-
mir Promyslov, and Mrs. Promyslov at the
White House.
30 The President announced the designation of
Representative Guy Vander Jagt as his
Special Representative during the Con-
gressman's special trade and investment
study mission to Africa, January 30-Febru-
ary 14, 1973.
31 Eisaku Sato, former Prime Minister of
Japan, met with the President at the White
House. In the evening, the former Prime
Minister and Mrs. Sato were the President's
guests at a black tie dinner in their honor
at the White House.
1065
