Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [163]
the American people that the American
people should know. It isn't that we are
trying to keep something from the press
that the press should print. But it is that
what we are trying to do is to accomplish
our goal, make a deal. And when we are
dealing with potential adversaries, those
negotiations must have the highest degree
of confidentiality.
And I can assure you that in my term
of office as President in the first 4 years,
and also in this second 4 years, I am going
to meet my responsibility to protect the
national security of the United States of
America insofar as our secrets are con-
cerned.
And by our secrets, what I am saying
here is not that we are concerned about
every little driblet here and there, but
what I am concerned about is the high-
est classified documents in our National
Security Council files, in the State De-
partment, in the Defense Department,
which if they get out, for example, in our
arms control negotiations with the So-
viets, would let them know our position
before we ever got to the table. They don't
tell us theirs. They have no problem keep-
ing their secrets.
say
I don't want, and you don't want, their
system and that kind of control, but I
it is time for a new sense of responsibility
in this country and a new sense of dedi-
cation of everybody in the bureaucracy
that if a document is classified, keep it
classified.
Now, gentlemen, I turn to the chal-
lenge for the future. I have talked about
the need for strength if we are going to
have a mutual reduction of armaments in
the world and, therefore, of the threat to
peace in the world. I have talked about
the need for national security where our
con-
highly classified documents
cerned, so we can continue these enor-
mously important initiatives for peace.
I now want to talk about why the
United States, after all that it has done
for the world in World War II, after the
billions that it has poured out since World
War II, its sacrifices in Korea, its sacrifices
in Vietnam, why we, the American people,
have to continue to carry this load.
As I said earlier, believe me, as Presi-
dent, what a relief it would be to say,
"Now that we have peace in Vietnam,
we have a new relationship with China
and Russia, we can simply turn away from
the problems of the world and turn to the
problems at home."
I can assure you gentlemen that if we
were to follow that course, we would find
very soon that we would be living in a
terribly dangerous world. The world is
safer today than it was 42 years ago. It
can be more safe in the years ahead. But
that will only happen provided we follow
the course that I have tried to lay out to
you here today.
As I look to that future, therefore, it is
vitally important that the United States.
continue to play the world role.
Let's look at just this century. We don't
need to go back any further than that. I
can imagine some of you in those long
hours of captivity were thinking back over
several centuries. But in any event, look-
ing back just over this century, World
War I, the United States could stand
aside. After all, there was Britain, there
was France, two great powers who
thought as we did about the world, and
they could carry the load. And then we
came in toward the end. In World War
II, the United States, for a time, could
stand aside because Britain was still
561
