[87] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
herewith a certified copy of those amend-
ments. I transmit also the report of the
Department of State with respect to the
amendments recommending early ac-
ceptance of the amendments by the
United States.
The 1966 Load Lines Convention es-
tablished new uniform rules concerning
the limits to which ships on international
voyages may be loaded. Its purpose was to
bring international load line regulations
into accord with modern developments
and techniques in ship construction. The
purpose of the new amendments is to cor-
rect errors and ambiguities in the 1966
Convention on Load Lines which have
become apparent since 1966.
The new Amendments should make the
1966 Convention more effective in bring-
ing improvements in safety of ships as
well as in the economics of shipping. I
recommend that the Senate give the
Amendments early and favorable con-
sideration.
The White House,
March 22, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the amendments and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
ecutive D (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
88 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Strasbourg
Agreement Concerning the International Patent
Classification.
March 22,
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith a certified copy of the
Strasbourg Agreement Concerning the In-
ternational Patent Classification, signed
March 24, 1971. I transmit also, for the
information of the Senate, the report from
the Department of State with respect to
the Agreement.
The purpose of the Agreement is gen-
erally similar to that set forth in the Nice
Agreement Concerning International
Classification of Goods and Services to
which Trademarks are Applied, as revised
at Stockholm July 14, 1967, and the
Locarno Agreement Establishing an In-
ternational Classification for Industrial
1973
Designs, signed October 8, 1968. Both of
these earlier Agreements were approved
by the Senate on December 11, 1971. The
countries party to the Agreement con-
stitute a Special Union under the Paris
Union established by the Paris Convention
for the Protection of Industrial Property,
last revised in 1967 at Stockholm. The
Special Union consists of an Assembly of
all contracting parties and a Committee of
Experts. Pursuant to the Agreement a
common classification is adopted for
patents for invention, inventors' certif-
icates, utility models and utility certif-
icates, to be known as the "International
Patent Classification" and provisions are
included for its amendment.
It is important from the standpoint of
218
