Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
I am also asking the Chairman of the
Council on Environmental Quality to
work with the Environmental Protection
Agency, in consultation with the National
Academy of Sciences and appropriate
Federal agencies, to study the environ-
mental impact of oil and gas production
on the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf
and in the Gulf of Alaska. No drilling will
be undertaken in these areas until its en-
vironmental impact is determined. Gov-
ernors, legislators and citizens of these
areas will be consulted in this process.
Finally, I am asking the Secretary of
the Interior to develop a long-term leasing
program for all energy resources on public
lands, based on a thorough analysis of the
Nation's energy, environmental, and eco-
nomic objectives.
lation to the Congress which would re-
move the present restriction on the pipe-
line. I appeal to the Congress to act swiftly
on this matter so that we can begin con-
struction of the pipeline with all possible
speed.
I oppose any further delay in order to
restudy the advisability of building the
pipeline through Canada. Our interest in
rapidly increasing our supply of oil is best
served by an Alaskan pipeline. It could be
completed much more quickly than a
Canadian pipeline; its entire capacity
would be used to carry domestically owned
oil to American markets where it is
needed; and construction of an Alaskan
pipeline would create a significant num-
ber of American jobs both in Alaska and in
the maritime industry.
ALASKAN PIPELINE
Another important source of domestic
oil exists on the North Slope of Alaska.
Although private industry stands ready to
develop these reserves and the Federal
Government has spent large sums on en-
vironmental analyses, this project is still
being delayed. This delay is not related
to any adverse judicial findings concern-
ing environmental impact, but rather to
an outmoded legal restriction regarding
the width of the right of way for the pro-
posed pipeline.
At a time when we are importing grow-
ing quantities of oil at great detriment to
our balance of payments, and at a time
when we are also experiencing significant
oil shortages, we clearly need the two
million barrels a day which the North
Slope could provide a supply equal to
fully one-third of our present import
levels.
In recent weeks I have proposed legis-
SHALE OIL
Recoverable deposits of shale oil in the
continental United States are estimated at
some 600 billion barrels, 80 billion of
which are considered easily accessible.
At the time of my Energy Message
of 1971, I requested the Secretary of the
Interior to develop an oil shale leasing
program on a pilot basis and to provide
me with a thorough evaluation of the en-
vironmental impact of such a program.
The Secretary has prepared this pilot
project and expects to have a final en-
vironmental impact statement soon. If the
environmental risks are acceptable, we
will proceed with the program.
To date there has been no commercial
production of shale oil in the United
States. Our pilot program will provide us
with valuable experience in using vari-
ous operational techniques and acting un-
der various environmental conditions.
Under the proposed program, the costs
307
