[7] Jan. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
clusion, when you held up a sign saying,
"Chinese-American Friendship."
And friendship is the most important
gift that one group can bring to another.
It is a tragedy of this century that for 20
years a great wall of hostility has sepa-
rated the 800 million people of the Peo-
ple's Republic of China and the 200 mil-
lion people of the United States of
America.
As a result of the meetings that I was
privileged to have with Chairman Mao
and Premier Chou En-lai in Peking early
in 1972, that wall of hostility is now com-
ing down. And we only hope in the future
that young Americans will have the op-
portunity to go to your country and that
they will be as fine ambassadors of friend-
ship as you have been ambassadors of
friendship from the People's Republic of
China to the United States of America.
Now, since you have brought us these
great gifts, your talent and your friend-
ship, we have a small token of apprecia-
tion for you to take with you as you return
8
home.
This is the seal of the President of the
United States which each of you can
have and which will remind you of your
visit to our country.
Now, Mrs. Nixon and I would like the
privilege of greeting each of you person-
ally to express our appreciation for your
long journey, for your magnificent talent,
but most of all for the friendship that you
have brought to the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:03 pm. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Fol-
lowing his remarks, the members of the troupe
were presented with ashtrays and pens bearing
the Presidential seal.
The troupe, consisting of 40 performers and
12 musicians, toured the United States from
December 16, 1972, to January 13, 1973, visit-
ing Chicago, Indianapolis, New York City, and
Washington, D.C.
Mr. Chang Ying-wu, director of the troupe,
responded to the President's remarks in
Chinese. A translation of his remarks is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 9, p. 26).
Oath of Office and Second Inaugural Address.
January 20, 1973
I, RICHARD NIXON, do solemnly
swear that I will faithfully execute the
Office of President of the United States,
and will to the best of my ability, preserve,
protect and defend the Constitution of the
United States, so help me God.
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr.
Chief Justice, Senator Cook, Mrs. Eisen-
hower, and my fellow citizens of this great
and good country we share together:
When we met here 4 years ago, Amer-
ica was bleak in spirit, depressed by the
prospect of seemingly endless war abroad
and of destructive conflict at home.
As we meet here today, we stand on the
threshold of a new era of peace in the
world.
The central question before us is: How
shall we use that peace?
Let us resolve that this era we are about
to enter will not be what other postwar
periods have so often been: a time of re-
treat and isolation that leads to stagnation
at home and invites new danger abroad.
Let us resolve that this will be what it
can become: a time of great responsibili-
ties greatly borne, in which we renew the
12
