[363] Dec. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Affairs and as a member of the National
Security Council.
Following my previous conversations with
you, I have discussed my intentions with Jerry
and have communicated to him my willingness
to help you and him during the transition
period.
Much has been accomplished under your
leadership these past five years in moving
toward peace and an improving quality of life.
I have considered it a high honor to have been
a part of these efforts both as Secretary of
Defense and as Counsellor to the President for
Domestic Affairs.
Mr. President, I appreciate the opportunity
you afforded me once again to serve you, the
Presidency, and the country during these past
seven months. I will of course be available,
subject to your wishes, for future consultations
in national security and domestic affairs.
With best wishes and kindest personal
regards, I am
Sincerely,
MELVIN R. LAIRD
Counsellor to the President
for Domestic Affairs
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
364 Statement Proposing Enactment of an Emergency
Windfall Profits Tax. December 19, 1973
ONE of the central facts underlying the
national energy crisis is that we have a
shortage in the production of domestic
crude oil. This shortage has been further
aggravated by the embargo of oil by the
Arab nations. It is one of the ironies in
the present situation, as well as one of the
sources of confidence that we can solve the
energy shortage, that the United States is
an energy-rich nation. In addition to our
superabundance of coal, oil shale, natural
gas, and other resources, both natural and
technological, we also possess extensive
supplies of oil. In the past we have drawn
on proven supplies in the most economical
manner, and this practice, coupled with
heretofore cheap imports, has provided us
with sufficient petroleum and, more im-
portantly, petroleum at very low prices.
It has not previously been commercially
feasible to develop our oil shale resources
or to extract all of the crude oil which ex-
ists in developed fields and in unproven
reserves. Now we must become self-suffi-
cient in energy, and in order to do so, we
must be prepared to pay the attendant
costs.
In order to increase our production of
crude petroleum, new reservoirs must be
discovered and drilled, often to deeper
and more costly depths. Expensive new
technology must be applied to existing
wells to bring up more of the 60 percent
of the crude oil which present drilling
processes leave in the ground. Very large
expenditures are also needed to produce
oil from oil shale, a resource which alone
could supply our needs for years to come.
Today, prices of crude oil in the world
market are rising, and it is inevitable that
they will come to rest at levels higher than
we historically have enjoyed. Neverthe-
less, after a short-run adjustment period,
the long-run price required to supply our
needs should not be unreasonably high.
In the meantime, because of the abrupt
nature of the present shortage, prices
could temporarily exceed the price levels
1018
