[264] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
extricably linked. In the final analysis,
the quality of housing depends on matters
such as transportation, proximity to edu-
cational and health services, and the avail-
ability of jobs and shopping. It also de-
pends on economic factors which are
shaped by the larger community. One im-
portant finding of our housing study was
that the costs of the land on which new
housing is located has risen faster than
any other cost component of housing.
The Congress, too, has recognized these
relationships in its finding "that Federal
programs affect the location of popula-
tion, economic growth, and the character
of urban development [and] that such
programs frequently conflict and result
in undesirable and costly patterns of ur-
ban development which adversely affect
the environment and wastefully use our
natural resources.”
It is clear that housing policy cannot
be considered separately from other poli-
cies related to the economic, social and
physical aspects of community develop-
ment. The next Report on Urban Growth,
which I shall submit to the Congress in
1974. will further address these crucial
relationships.
ASSURING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
Over the last several years, great strides
have been made toward assuring Ameri-
cans of all races and creeds equal and
unhindered access to the housing of their
choice. As I stated in 1971:
"At the outset, we set three basic re-
quirements for our program to achieve
equal housing opportunity: It must be
aimed at correcting the effects of past
discrimination; it must contain safeguards
to ensure against future discrimination;
and it must be results-oriented so its prog-
ress toward the overall goal of increasing
housing opportunities can be evaluated.
"The administration is embarked upon
this course. It must and will press forward
firmly.
"The chief components of such a pro-
gram include the firm enforcement of
laws relating to equal housing opportu-
nity, the development of appropriate
equal housing opportunity criteria for
participation in programs affecting hous-
ing, the development of information pro-
grams, and the development of policies
relating to housing marketing practices."
Each of these components has been put
into operation and we are continuing to
move ahead. It is important that all Fed-
eral agencies vigorously pursue a wide
range of efforts to enforce fair housing
and equal opportunity laws-and all
members of my Administration will con-
tinue to be particularly vigilant in this
regard.
The availability of mortgage credit has
also been restricted in many instances
on the grounds that the applicant's fi-
nancial resources, which would otherwise
have been adequate, were deemed insuffi-
cient because the applicant was a woman.
These practices have occurred, unfortu-
nately, not only in home mortgage lend-
ing but also in the field of consumer credit.
I shall therefore work with the Congress
to achieve legislation which will prohibit
lenders from discriminating on the basis
of sex or marital status.
FURTHER PROPOSALS
A number of other proposals which
have grown out of our recent housing
study will be included in the legislation
812
