Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 2 [103]
makes the accomplishment that much
more admirable. This program also rep-
resents tangible evidence of concern for
and responsiveness to the needs of the
people and encourages us to look with
confidence to the future of your country
as it pursues its goals of a lasting and
fruitful peace.
On behalf of the American people, I
congratulate the government and the
people of the Republic of Vietnam on the
success of this land reform endeavor.
Americans are pleased to have cooperated
with Vietnamese in this historic
undertaking.
In the postwar period, we look forward
with equal interest to joining your gov-
ernment and people in the important task
of reconstruction and long-term economic
development.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the President's letter, dated
March 24, 1973, was released April 2 at San
Clemente, Calif.
President Thieu's letter, dated March 20,
1973, and released with the President's letter,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
March 26th, 1973 marks the third anniver-
sary of the signing of the "Land to the Tiller"
law in the Republic of Vietnam. On this mem-
orable occasion, I take pleasure in com-
municating to you the highlights of our land re-
form, one of the top priority programs for the
welfare of the rural people. This also consti-
tutes, in my view, an important aspect of the
social and economic revolution, in the present
ideological contest in Vietnam.
Upon the promulgation of the "Land to the
Tiller" law in 1970, I pledged to distribute free
of charge 1,000,000 hectares (approximately
2.5 million acres) of land in three years to
800,000 tenant farmers who actually tilled the
land. To date, 1,003,353 hectares of land have
been distributed to 858,821 former tenant farm-
ers. Our planned goal has been achieved and
surpassed.
The "Land to the Tiller" program has re-
duced farm tenancy from around 60 percent
three years ago to almost the vanishing point.
It has thus undercut the main theme of com-
munist propaganda vis-a-vis the rural popula-
tion.
Our farmers have not been merely passive
recipients of government largesse but have
enthusiastically participated in the program to
improve their lives. They are using the addi-
tional income from the sale of crops formerly
paid in rent to develop the rural economy, thus
contributing to the growth of the nation. Our
farmers have now a new sense of personal
worth and dignity and have become masters of
their destiny, free men with reasons to preserve
their freedom.
These accomplishments are attributable, in
no small measure, to the dedicated support and
cooperation of Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker
and the American AID Mission staff in Viet-
nam and to the financial assistance of the
American people through your government.
For this, I would like to convey, on behalf of
the Vietnamese people, our deep gratitude to
you, and through you to the people of the
United States of America.
I wish also to express the hope that the
Government of the Republic of Vietnam will
continue to have help and support from your
government and people to not only complete
the land reform program but to help carry for-
ward vigorously the implementation of the
five-year rural economic development plan,
which will solidify and build on the tremend-
ous benefits of land distribution, and of our
postwar reconstruction plan which is to heal
the wounds of war and to promote development
and growth in an era of peace.
Sincerely yours,
NGUYEN VAN THIEU
249
