Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 15 [233]
that he could defend it with enthusiasm
before the committee.
Because I trusted the agencies conduct-
ing the investigations, because I believed
the reports I was getting, I did not believe
the newspaper accounts that suggested a
coverup. I was convinced there was no
coverup, because I was convinced that no
one had anything to cover up.
It was not until March 21 of this year
that I received new information from the
White House Counsel that led me to con-
clude that the reports I had been getting
for over 9 months were not true. On that
day, I launched an intensive effort of my
own to get the facts and to get the facts
out. Whatever the facts might be, I
wanted the White House to be the first to
make them public.
At first, I entrusted the task of getting
me the facts to Mr. Dean. When, after
spending a week at Camp David, he failed
to produce the written report I had asked
for, I turned to John Ehrlichman and to
the Attorney General-while also making
independent inquiries of my own. By mid-
April, I had received Mr. Ehrlichman's
report and also one from the Attorney
General based on new information un-
covered by the Justice Department. These
reports made it clear to me that the situa-
tion was far more serious than I had imag-
ined. It at once became evident to me that
the responsibility for the investigation in
the case should be given to the Criminal
Division of the Justice Department.
I turned over all the information I had
to the head of that department, Assistant
Attorney General Henry Petersen, a career
government employee with an impeccable
nonpartisan record, and I instructed him
to pursue the matter thoroughly. I
ordered all members of the Administra-
tion to testify fully before the grand jury.
And with my concurrence, on May 18
Attorney General Richardson appointed
a Special Prosecutor to handle the matter,
and the case is now before the grand jury.
Far from trying to hide the facts, my
effort throughout has been to discover the
facts and to lay those facts before the
appropriate law enforcement authorities
so that justice could be done and the
guilty dealt with.
I relied on the best law enforcement
agencies in the country to find and report
the truth. I believed they had done so—
just as they believed they had done so.
Many have urged that in order to help
prove the truth of what I have said, I
should turn over to the Special Prosecutor
and the Senate committee recordings of
conversations that I held in my office or on
my telephone.
However, a much more important prin-
ciple is involved in this question than what
the tapes might prove about Watergate.
Each day, a President of the United
States is required to make difficult deci-
sions on grave issues. It is absolutely neces-
sary,
if the President is to be able to do his
job as the country expects, that he be able
to talk openly and candidly with his ad-
visers about issues and individuals. This
kind of frank discussion is only possible
when those who take part in it know that
what they say is in strictest confidence.
The Presidency is not the only office
that requires confidentiality. A Member
of Congress must be able to talk in con-
fidence with his assistants; judges must be
able to confer in confidence with their law
clerks and with each other. For very good
reasons, no branch of Government has
ever compelled disclosure of confidential
conversations between officers of other
branches of Government and their ad-
visers about Government business.
693
