Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 19 [50]
on questions like controlling the price of
the cost of living, and keeping down par-
ticularly food costs, which concern work-
ing people and all people, and also on
questions of national security, in which
organized labor has always taken a very,
very responsible position.
I think the point Mr. Meany empha-
sized in introducing me, and one that I
emphasized after the meeting-both in
it and afterwards-is very simply that
during the difficult periods when we have
attempted to bring the war in Vietnam
to a conclusion in the right way, in a way
that our POW's could come off those
planes with their heads high, knowing
that they had not fought in vain, know-
ing they had accomplished the objective
of the United States, which very simply
was to prevent the imposition by force of
a Communist government on 17 million
people of South Vietnam-that could not
have been achieved had it not been for
the support of millions of Americans and
particularly, as I emphasized to them, it
could not have been achieved had it not
been for the steadfast, outspoken support
of most of the leaders of organized labor.
Most of them are Democrats, as I
pointed out, but when it came to the
problem of national security, when it came
to standing by the President, whether it
was this President or his predecessor, in
attempting to achieve peace with honor,
the leaders of organized labor were always
standing firm, and I expressed apprecia-
tion for that.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr.
President.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:20 p.m. at the Inverrary Golf and Country
Club, Lauderhill, Fla.
50 Statement About Signing a Bill Designating the
Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Texas, as
the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center.
February 19, 1973
IT IS with great pleasure today that I
sign into law S.J. Res. 37, designating the
Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston as
the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center.
Few men in our time have better un-
derstood the value of space exploration
than Lyndon Johnson.
It was he, as a Senator, who wrote, in-
troduced, and helped to enact the legisla-
tion which created the National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration. He called
it the proudest legislative achievement of
his years in the Congress.
As Vice President, he was Chairman
of the National Aeronautics and Space
Council in the critical, early years of ex-
ploration when the groundwork was laid,
and the determination made to put a man
on the Moon.
Finally, as President, he oversaw the
first flights of the Apollo Moon landing
program, and he did it in a way that led
people beyond the adventure and the
pride to the deeper meaning and the
deeper benefits of space exploration.
Speaking at the Manned Spacecraft Cen-
ter in Houston on March 1, 1968, he
summed up this Nation's purpose in
outer space: “... we do not build rockets
and spacecraft to fly our flag in space, or
107
