[298] Oct. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
298 Statement About the Selection of Henry A. Kissinger
as Corecipient of the Nobel Peace Prize for 1973.
October 16, 1973
I AM sure that all Americans will join me
in extending congratulations to Secretary
of State Henry A. Kissinger upon his
richly deserved selection as corecipient of
the Nobel Peace Prize for 1973.
By jointly citing Dr. Kissinger and Le
Duc Tho, the Nobel committee has also
given deserved recognition to the art of
negotiation itself in the process of ending
a war and laying the groundwork for
peace-an art that will be more essential
than ever as we seek to build and main-
tain a structure of peace in the world.
It is my most fervent hope that the era
of negotiation of the 1970's and the nego-
tiation this award recognizes will be
capped by a just and lasting peace in
Southeast Asia, in the Mideast, and
throughout the world.
NOTE: The President telephoned Secretary
Kissinger at the Department of State to ex-
press his congratulations and later met with
him at the White House.
299 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the International Educational and Cultural
Exchange Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
October 16, 1973
I transmit herewith the Annual Report
on the International Educational and
Cultural Exchange Program conducted
during fiscal year 1972 by the Department
of State under the Mutual Educational
and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (Pub-
lic Law 87-256).
During the past quarter century, the
increase in economic and scientific inter-
dependence among nations, the growth of
new transnational communities based on
common interests and concerns, the global
reach of communications and the upsurge
in travel have all radically altered the
international environment. All these de-
velopments make it particularly important
that the quality of the participants se-
lected for exchange programs and the
nature of their exchange experiences be
truly outstanding. Added attention should
also be given to relatively low-cost ways
of enhancing the professional and cultural
experiences of foreign students and others
who come to live and to work in our
country.
During this past year, a special effort
has been made to foster group exchanges
concerning problems we have in common
with other countries. At the same time, we
are striving to concentrate on the excep-
tional individual, on the promising young
leader or the influential communicator,
for example, as well as to develop ex-
changes that introduce our visitors to
America's exceptionally rich ethnic and
cultural diversity.
Our exchange programs have proved
especially valuable in recent months in
our developing relations with the Soviet
Union and the People's Republic of
China. The American and Soviet peoples
880
