Richard Nixon, 1973
July 18 [207]
large, export controls will not be needed.
However, reports of export orders for
agricultural commodities will continue to
be required. Our policy must always be
guided by the fundamental importance
of maintaining adequate supplies of food
at home.
per-
The stability of the American economy
in the months and years ahead demands
maximum farm output. I call upon the
American farmer to produce as much as
he can. There have been reports that
farmers have been reluctant to raise live-
stock because they are uncertain whether
Government regulations will permit them
a fair return on their investment, and
haps also because they resent the imposi-
tion of ceilings on food prices. I hope that
these reports are untrue. In the past year
real net income per farm increased 14
percent, a truly remarkable rise. I can
assure the American farmer that there is
no intention of the Government to dis-
criminate against him. The rules we are
setting forth today should give the farmer
confidence that the Government will not
keep him from earning a fair return on
his investment in providing food.
The Secretary of Agriculture will be
offering more specific advice on increas-
ing food production and will be taking
several steps to assist; in particular, he
has decided that there will be no Govern-
ment set-aside of land in 1974 for feed
grains, wheat, and cotton.
I am today initiating steps to increase
the import of dried skim milk.
When I announced the freeze, I said
that special attention would be given, in
the post-freeze period, to stabilizing the
price of food. That remains a primary
objective. But stabilizing the price of food
would not be accomplished by low price
ceilings and empty shelves, even if the
ceilings could be enforced when the
shelves are empty. Neither can stabiliza-
tion be concerned only with a week or a
month. The evidence is becoming over-
whelming that only if a rise of food prices
is permitted now, can we avoid shortages
and still higher prices later. I hope that
the American people will understand this
and not be deluded by the idea that we
can produce low-priced food out of acts
of Congress or Executive orders. The
American people will continue to be well-
fed, at prices which are reasonable rela-
tive to their incomes. But they cannot now
escape a period in which food prices are
higher relative to incomes than we have
been accustomed to.
THE PROCESS OF DECONTROL
There is no need for me to reiterate my
desire to end controls and return to the
free market. I believe that a large propor-
tion of the American people, when faced
with a rounded picture of the options,
share that desire. Our experience with the
freeze has dramatized the essential diffi-
culties of a controlled system-its inter-
ference with production, its inequities, its
distortions, its evasions, and the obstacles
it places in the way of good international
relations.
And yet, I must urge a policy of pa-
tience. The move to freedom now would
most likely turn into a detour, back into a
swamp of even more lasting controls. I
am impressed by the unanimous recom-
mendation of the leaders of labor and
business who constitute the Labor-
Management Advisory Committee that
the controls should be terminated by the
end of 1973. I hope it will be possible to
do so, and I will do everything in my
power to achieve that goal. However, I do
651
