[154] May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
dom of assembly. It is important that they
be fair, effective, realistic, and enforce-
able. Devising such a system of campaign
reform will be difficult, but it is not
impossible.
I am convinced a route can be charted
that will avoid the obstacles, that wide-
ranging reforms are possible and desir-
able, and that persons of the caliber of
those who would be named to this Com-
mission, given a reasonable period of time
and also a firm deadline, can come up
with a set of proposals that will work and
that will help to restore the faith of the
American people in the integrity of their
political process.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded
for use on radio.
155 Special Message to the Congress Proposing
Establishment of a Nonpartisan Commission on
Federal Election Reform.
To the Congress of the United States:
A thorough-going reform of campaign
practices in our Federal elections ranks
high on our list of national priorities.
Many separate proposals for such re-
form are now pending before the Con-
gress; in light of recent disclosures of
widespread abuses during the Presiden-
tial campaign of 1972, many more will
doubtless soon be made.
I believe that reform is essential, and
urgent; I also believe it is vital that these
proposed reforms be carefully considered
not singly, but in their relation each to
the others, and that this be done in a
non-partisan context.
Therefore, I recommend creation of a
Non-partisan Commission on Federal
Election Reform, to be established as
quickly as possible and to be charged
with examining our entire pattern of
campaign practices and with recom-
mending a comprehensive set of reforms.
A proposed Joint Resolution to accom-
plish this accompanies this Message.
The Commission I propose would be
composed of seventeen members. Eight
of these would be chosen by and from
the Congress, two Democrats and two
May 16, 1973
Republicans from the Senate and two
Democrats and two Republicans from
the House of Representatives. It would
also include the national chairmen of the
two principal political parties, and seven
other, public members, to be selected by
the President. No more than four of seven
public members shall be members of the
same political party. To further ensure
its complete independence, the chairman
and vice-chairman would be selected from
among the members of the Commission,
by the Commission itself.
The Commission's mandate would be
as broad as the Federal election process it-
self. Nothing would be excluded. It would
be authorized to examine the cost and
financing of campaigns, including propos-
als for alternative methods of financing;
laws on reporting and disclosure; the
elimination from campaigns of violence
and the threat of violence, and infringe-
ments on the right of privacy; curbing
vote frauds; the length of political cam-
paigns; the use and abuse of techniques
such as television commercials, polling
and computerized direct mail; methods of
curbing the entire range of unfair or un-
savory campaign practices; and anything
536
