[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
any longer. Instead, it has the very real
potential of aggravating our supply prob-
lems, and it denies us the flexibility we
need to deal quickly and efficiently with
our import requirements. General dis-
satisfaction with the program and the
apparent need for change has led to un-
certainty. Under these conditions, there
can be little long-range investment plan-
ning for new drilling and refinery con-
struction.
Effective today, I am removing by proc-
lamation [4210] all existing tariffs on im-
ported crude oil and products. Holders of
import licenses will be able to import
petroleum duty free. This action will help
hold down the cost of energy to the Ameri-
can consumer.
Effective today, I am also suspending
direct control over the quantity of crude
oil and refined products which can be
imported. In place of these controls, I am
substituting a license-fee quota system.
Under the new system, present holders
of import licenses may import petroleum
exempt from fees up to the level of their
1973 quota allocations. For imports in
excess of the 1973 level, a fee must be
paid by the importer.
This system should achieve several
objectives.
First, it should help to meet our im-
mediate energy needs by encouraging im-
portation of foreign oil at the lowest cost
to consumers, while also providing incen-
tives for exploration and development of
our domestic resources to meet our long-
term needs. There will be little paid in fees
this year, although all exemptions from
fees will be phased out over several years.
By gradually increasing fees over the next
two and one-half years to a maximum
level of one-half cent per gallon for crude
oil and one and one-half cents per gallon
for all refined products, we should con-
tinue to meet our energy needs while en-
couraging industry to increase its domestic
production.
Second, this system should encourage
refinery construction in the United States,
because the fees are higher for refined
products than for crude oil. As an added
incentive, crude oil in amounts up to
three-fourths of new refining capacity may
be imported without being subject to any
fees. This special allowance will be avail-
able to an oil company during the first
five years after it builds or expands its
refining capacity.
Third, this system should provide the
flexibility we must have to meet short and
long-term needs efficiently. We will re-
view the fee level periodically to ensure
that we are imposing the lowest fees con-
sistent with our intention to increase do-
mestic production while keeping costs to
the consumer at the lowest possible level.
We will also make full use of the Oil Im-
port Appeals Board to ensure that the
needs of all elements of the petroluem in-
dustry are met, particularly those of in-
dependent operators who help to maintain
market competition.
Fourth, the new system should con-
tribute to our national security. Increased
domestic production will leave us less de-
pendent on foreign supplies. At the same
time, we will adjust the fees in a manner
designed to encourage, to the extent pos-
sible, the security of our foreign supplies.
Finally, I am directing the Oil Policy
Committee to examine incentives aimed
at increasing our domestic storage capac-
ity or shut-in production. In this way we
312
