[3] Jan. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Haldeman; domestic affairs, Mr. Ehrlich-
man; foreign affairs, Dr. Kissinger;
executive management, Mr. Ash; and
economic affairs, Mr. Shultz. As previ-
ously announced, Mr. Shultz will continue
to hold his line position as Secretary of the
Treasury, and Mr. Ash will do likewise as
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
Within the field of domestic affairs, in
order to achieve some of the same bene-
fits of goal-oriented policy formation and
advice to the President which would re-
sult from creation by the Congress of
unified Departments of Natural Re-
sources, Human Resources, and Com-
munity Development, I have decided to
ask the heads of three of the present de-
partments to serve simultaneously as
Counsellors to the President with co-
ordinating responsibilities in these three
broad areas of concern.
Earl L. Butz, Secretary of Agriculture,
will take on the additional post of Coun-
sellor for Natural Resources. Caspar
Weinberger, Secretary-designate of
Health, Education, and Welfare, will be-
come Counsellor for Human Resources,
James Lynn, Secretary-designate of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, will become
Counsellor for Community Development.
To facilitate a close working relation-
ship with the President and the Assistant
in charge of domestic affairs, each of these
Counsellors will have an office in the Old
Executive Office Building next to the
White House.
To bring about better operational co-
ordination and more unified policy devel-
opment within the three subject areas to
be supervised by the Counsellors, each
will chair a committee of the Domestic
Council made up of those department and
agency heads having substantial respon-
sibilities in his area. These committees
will provide a mechanism for interdepart-
mental cooperation on the problems of
natural resources, human resources, and
community development in somewhat the
same way as the new Council on Eco-
nomic Policy (formation of which was
announced last month will do in the
economic affairs area under the chairman-
ship of the Assistant to the President in
charge of economic affairs. The specific
concerns and organizations falling within
each of these subject areas will generally
be those assigned to the proposed new
departments as described in my revised
reorganization proposals.
OPERATIONAL LINES AND CONGRESSIONAL
RELATIONSHIPS UNCHANGED
It should be understood that the func-
tions of all 11 executive departments and
of all the independent agencies of the Fed-
eral Government will continue under
these arrangements precisely as they are
at present. Only the passage of legislation
or the acceptance of reorganization plans
by the Congress can alter those functions.
It should also be understood that each de-
partment Secretary and agency head will
continue to exercise full authority and to
bear full responsibility in the management
of his or her own organization as
prescribed by law. Further, I would
emphasize that existing Congressional
relationships with these various organiza-
tions and with their top officials will re-
main unchanged.
The individual department heads and
ยน See 1972 volume, Appendix E, pp. E-4 to
E-6.
4
