[163] May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
strong, and France at the beginning had
some strength, but eventually we had to
come in.
But today, look at the world. Among
the free nations of the world there is no
one else, not the Japanese, as you well
know, even though they have the eco-
nomic strength, they do not have the
military strength and cannot be allowed
to acquire it under their constitution; and
not one nation in Europe, by itself, or
Europe collectively, has the strength to
be the peacemaker in the world.
So, it is all right here. It is in America.
It is in that Oval Office, whoever is there,
and it is there for the foreseeable future.
In other words, the United States must
maintain its strength in order to play a
role between the great powers of the
world and among the great powers of the
world of reducing the danger of war, be-
cause our ideals and our goals-subject as
they can be to much criticism as far as tac-
tics are concerned in the world scene-
our ideals and our goals are for a world
of peace. Our ideals and our goals are for
a world in which we reduce the burden
of arms, and therefore, it is vitally impor-
tant that this Nation that has that kind
of ideals and that kind of goals maintains
its strength so that we can play that role.
But maintaining the strength alone is
not enough. It must be respected. And
that means that we must continue to have
a policy which commands respect
throughout the world. We must continue
to insist on adherence to agreements that
are made. We must continue to let the
world know that while we have no ag-
gressive intentions anyplace in the world,
we will stand by our treaty commitments
wherever they are in the world.
That, you see, is the language of peace
rather than the language of bugging out
of the world and turning to what people
wistfully might think to be a fortress
America. But let me tell you, fortress
America might have been before World
War II a concept that was viable. Today
it is ridiculous. We cannot be apart from
the world, not when weapons that can
destroy us are 30 minutes away.
And so, we must play this role. And
rather than playing it in terms of whining
about it and complaining about it, let us
do it proudly, because what greater mis-
sion could a people have than to say that
in these years—the seventies-of 1971-2-
3-4-5 and 6, when we reach our 200th
birthday, the United States of America
played a great role in the world and made
the world safer, not only for ourselves but
for everybody in the world. That is the
stake, that is the challenge we must meet.
Today then, I ask for your support,
obviously, for a strong national defense.
That is like the preacher talking to the
choir. But I know, as far as you are con-
cerned, you will be for that, and I hope
so many of you will stay in our Armed
Forces. We need you.
But also, beyond that, I ask for your
support in helping to develop the national
spirit, the faith that we need in order to
meet our responsibilities in the world.
You have already contributed enormously
to that by your statements on your return,
by what you have said, what you have
done, and I am sure you can contribute
more to it in the future.
But the young people of America need
to hear the truth. They will believe you.
They will believe you, because you have
suffered so much for this country and have
562
