[340] Nov. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
last 15 years-I think it goes back about
that far-and that allows me to tell you
a little story.
The last time that I had an extended
conversation with Winston Churchill was
in the year 1958 when I visited him in
London. And he loved to talk about the
sea. He loved the sea. When he went to
Marrakech and other places that he liked
to go, rather than flying, he would usually
take a ship if he could. And I said, "Mr.
Prime Minister"-of course he was not
Prime Minister then, but once a Prime
Minister, he, of course, is always called
that-and I said, "Mr. Prime Minister,
don't you ever get seasick?" He said,
"No," and I said, "Well, the reason I
don't ever go by ship is that I found that
when I was in the Navy 30 years ago that
I got very seasick, and I decided from
then on I would try some other method
of travel."
He said, "Young man"—at that time
I was 45-but he said, "Young man, let
me tell you something. As you get older,
you will outgrow it."
And he was right. As I become older,
however rough the seas are, I don't get
seasick, however rough they are.
And in any event, as Paul Hall has al-
ready indicated, or at least implied, it is
the captain's job to bring that ship into
port, and I can assure you that you don't
need to worry about my getting seasick or
jumping ship. I am going to stay at that
helm until we bring it into port.
341
Statement Following a
Prevention Programs.
IN meeting today with members of the
two Cabinet-level groups responsible for
shaping the Nation's antidrug policies
Thank you.
[At this point, Paul Hall, president of the
Seafarers International Union of North Amer-
ica, introduced several of the Administra-
tion officials present at the convention, in-
cluding Peter J. Brennan, Secretary of Labor,
Frederick B. Dent, Secretary of Commerce,
and Robert J. Blackwell, Assistant Secretary
of Commerce for Maritime Affairs. Noting the
presence of Helen Delich Bentley, Chairman of
the Federal Maritime Commission, the Presi
dent resumed speaking.]
Well, Paul, just before I leave I want
to repeat to you something I said the
other day about Helen Bentley. I know
that for this group of, shall we say, stout-
hearted men, and strong men, and the
rest, you wonder why did this fellow ap-
point a woman as head of the Maritime
Commission, the first woman ever to be
the head of one of these Federal adminis-
trative bodies.
And as a matter of fact, one Senator
who was pushing some other, not woman,
but fellow-I think he was a fellow-but
anyway, came up to me and said, “You
can't appoint Helen Bentley, you know
she swears like a man." And my response
to him was this: I said, "You are wrong,
Senator, she swears like a lady, and that
is a lot stronger."
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in
the Congressional Room at the Statler-Hilton
Hotel.
Prior to the President's remarks, Union Presi-
dent Hall presented him with a model of the
TT Brooklyn, the largest merchant ship built
in the United States up to that time.
Meeting on Drug Abuse
November 27, 1973
both here and abroad-the Domestic
Council Committee on Drug Abuse and
the Cabinet Committee on International
982
