Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
tectionist pressures and political crises.
This is a constructive approach, and we
should pursue it.
The United States can only place the
highest importance on the carrying out of
these policies.
The problem, of course, is an interna-
tional one. The multilateral realignments
of currencies in December 1971 and Feb-
ruary 1973 were important steps toward a
solution, and Japan's participation in
these was constructive and crucial. But
the basic problem is structural, and the
solution is a thoroughgoing multilateral
reform of the system. Japan's active con-
tribution to this process is indispensable,
because no system is achievable or work-
able unless the most powerful economic
nations are engaged in it and help ac-
tively to make it work.
It is no accident that the U.S.-Japan
Security Treaty commits our two nations.
to "seek to eliminate conflict in their in-
ternational economic policies and
encourage economic collaboration be-
tween them." Without conscious effort of
political will, our economic disputes
could tear the fabric of our alliance.
Japan's New Diplomacy. As Japan to-
day moves out in many directions over the
terrain of multipolar diplomacy, it will be
another test of statesmanship on both sides
to ensure that our policies are not diver-
gent. Japan's foreign policy will continue
to be shaped by her unique perspectives,
purposes, and style. Japan has interests of
her own, of which she herself will be the
ultimate judge. Our foreign policies will
not be identical or inevitably in step. What
will preserve our alliance in the new era is
not rigidity of policy but a continuing con-
sciousness of the basic interest in stability
which we have in common. We must work
to maintain a consensus in our policies.
Our respective approaches toward
China in 1972 reflected the opportunities
and complexities we face, as allies, in the
common endeavor of reducing tensions
with adversaries.
Japan had for many years been develop-
ing economic and cultural contacts with
the People's Republic of China when the
United States had virtually none. Geog-
raphy, culture, history, and trade poten-
tial have always made China a powerful
natural attraction for Japan. Some Japa-
nese criticized the United States for the
mutual isolation between the United
States and the People's Republic of China,
and offered Japan as a natural bridge
between the two countries. Today, Japan
has full diplomatic relations with the Peo-
ple's Republic, while the United States
has not, and Japan's trade with China
continues to exceed our own by a wide
margin.
I have never believed, however, that
American and Japanese interests in our
China policies were in conflict.
On July 15, 1971, when I announced
my forthcoming visit to Peking, Japan-
because of her special closeness to the
United States-feared that our independ-
ent action foreshadowed a divergence or
conflict with Japan's interest, or a loss of
American interest in the U.S.-Japanese al-
liance. It is obvious now that our China
policy involved no inconsistency with our
Japan policy. As I explained in last year's
Report, I made a conscious decision to
preserve the secrecy of Dr. Kissinger's ex-
ploratory trip to Peking until its outcome
was clear. It was then announced immedi-
ately, and the announcement was followed
up by a process of intensive substantive
consultation with Japan, culminating in
my meeting with Prime Minister Sato in
San Clemente in January 1972, in advance
423
