[204] July 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
further support to a better approach to
higher education which would permit
academic communities to pursue excel-
lence and reform in the fields they choose
and by the means they choose.
The new Fund for the Improvement of
Postsecondary Education provides a way
to support development of effective pro-
grams in continuing education, extension,
and community service. Because of the
wide range of support possible under the
Fund's broad mandate, I shall continue
to recommend the termination of other
less flexible programs.
The White House,
July 12, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, dated July 12, 1973, was
sent to the Congress on July 13.
The report is entitled "A Measure of Suc-
cess: Federal Support for Continuing Educa-
tion-7th Annual Report and Recommenda-
tions of the National Advisory Council on
Extension and Continuing Education." (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 98 pp.).
205 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Plan
for United States Participation in the World
Weather Program. July 13, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Through the World Weather Program,
man is acquiring a means not only to cope
with his atmosphere and its vagaries but
also to understand and assess the impact
of his activities on the quality of the global
atmosphere.
As a result of recent technological im-
provements, we are continuing to show
substantial progress in furthering the goals
of this program:
-Operational geostationary satellites
will soon provide a nearly continuous
view of storms over a large part of the
earth's surface, strengthening our ability
to predict and warn of potential natural
disasters. Polar-orbiting satellites making
vertical measurements of the global at-
mosphere are already an important aid
to weather forecasting.
-Significant advances in computer
science are now helping to extend the
range, scope and accuracy of weather
predictions and to assess the impact of
pollution on climate and weather.
-Intensive planning is nearing com-
pletion for a large-scale international ex-
periment to be conducted in 1974 in the
tropical Atlantic. This experiment will
seek a better understanding of the effects
of the tropics on global weather patterns.
As a result, we expect to gain new in-
sight into the life cycle of hurricanes that
affect the coastal areas of the United
States.
-Nations are planning to combine
their resources in 1977 to observe the
entire earth's atmosphere for the first
time as a single physical system.
The World Weather Program is a dis-
tinctive example of what nations of the
world are capable of achieving when
united in a common purpose. A recent
United Nations Conference on the Human
Environment acknowledged the vital con-
tributions of this program. It is most
646
