[219] July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
spending on many specific programs, but
the important point is that our overall
spending goal has been achieved.
I recall how both Houses of the Con-
gress approved legislation last fall to set
a ceiling in Federal spending at the $250
billion level. While technical differences
prevented the two Houses from agreeing
on a common version of that ceiling, and
while overall Congressional action for the
last fiscal year eventually contemplated
much higher expenditures, it was clear
nevertheless that a majority in both
Houses of the Congress accepted in prin-
ciple the advisability of holding spending
to a lower level. When the chips were
down, it was that spirit of restraint which
prevailed.
I trust that the two branches can forge
an effective partnership on behalf of
budgetary responsibility again in this new
fiscal year-and that one year from now
the figures will show that the budget for
fiscal year 1974 was in balance. The fact
that we nearly achieved a balance in the
second half of fiscal year 1973 encourages
us to believe this a realistic objective.
It should not be overlooked, however,
that the veto of certain bills and the re-
serving of certain funds was essential in
achieving our budgetary goals for the past
12 months. Inflation continues to be our
most important economic problem-and
budget and monetary restraint continue
to be our most important tools for fighting
it. Our Phase IV controls will help to
moderate inflation, but a balanced budget
and monetary restraint must be our ma-
jor weapons against rising prices.
With the economy now operating at a
high level, revenues in fiscal year 1974
should approximate, without any tax in-
creases, the overall level of expenditures
I proposed last January-about $269 bil-
lion. Balancing the budget therefore
means that we must hold expenditures to
that level in the coming year, despite the
fact that higher prices, higher interest
rates, and new legislation will all be work-
ing to drive spending higher. I am con-
fident that with the continuing coopera-
tion of the Congress we can meet that goal
and thus help protect the American
people against the twin dangers of higher
prices and higher taxes.
220 Letter Responding to Senate Committee Subpoenas
Requiring Production of Presidential Tape
Recordings and Documents.
Dear Mr. Chairman:
White House counsel have received on
my behalf the two subpoenas issued by
you, on behalf of the Select Committee,
on July 23rd.
One of these calls on me to furnish to
the Select Committee recordings of five
meetings between Mr. John Dean and my-
self. For the reasons stated to you in my
July 26, 1973
letters of July 6th and July 23rd, I must
respectfully refuse to produce those re-
cordings.
The other subpoena calls on me to fur-
nish all records of any kind relating di-
rectly or indirectly to the "activities.
participation, responsibilities or involve-
ment" of 25 named individuals “in any
alleged criminal acts related to the Presi-
668
