[90] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
All American veterans deserve training
and education opportunities that will open
for them a promising peacetime future.
To this end, we have increased veterans
education and training benefits by 70 per-
cent since 1969. By this summer we expect
2 million veterans to be receiving such
benefits under the GI bill-about three
times as many as in 1968.
To make sure that Vietnam-era vet-
erans know about all the benefits available
to them, we have also launched a massive
counseling effort. Veterans Administra-
tion spokesmen in Vietnam, Thailand,
Japan, Korea, Okinawa, and Europe have
provided thousands of individual counsel-
ing sessions for outgoing servicemen. In
Vietnam alone over the past 6 years, 1.9
million men have been briefed on veterans
benefits, and 270,000 have had individual
interviews.
In all these ways our Government is
helping repay our debt to America's vet-
erans. But we must go even further.
With our men home from Vietnam and
with the reductions we have been able to
make elsewhere in our Armed Forces,
thousands of young veterans are returning
to civilian life. They ask no special privi-
leges or favors but they expect—and they
deserve-full respect and full economic
opportunity.
Theodore Roosevelt wrote of the Amer-
ican veterans of another era that “A man
who is good enough to shed his blood for
his country is good enough to be given a
square deal afterwards." This is just as
true of the fine young men who are com-
ing home today.
Courage, selflessness, discipline, and
devotion-these qualities are as important
in building peace as they were in waging
war.
Today I call on every American em-
ployer to make the recruiting and hiring
of Vietnam veterans a top priority.
Hiring the veteran is not just a good
deed it is a good investment. For the
veteran has proven that he is a good
worker and a good learner who knows the
meaning of discipline and the importance
of teamwork.
More and more American employers
are demonstrating that they realize these
facts. The unemployment rate for veterans
in their twenties has been dramatically
reduced, from 8.3 percent in the last quar-
ter of 1971 to 5.7 percent in February of
1973. This is important progress, but we
must do even better.
That is why the Department of De-
fense is now providing training for civilian
job skills for servicemen before their en-
listments expire.
That is why so many State and local
governments are also working to open up
productive career opportunities for
veterans.
In Cleveland, Ohio, for example,
Mayor Ralph Perk has initiated a promis-
ing new program. He is personally con-
ducting a survey of job openings in his
city. In about 2 weeks, when he has 500
openings in hand, he will ask local news-
papers in Cleveland to print a special
questionnaire for veterans. They can re-
turn the questionnaire to him, and he and
his staff will try to link up each veteran
with an appropriate job, job training, or
schooling.
In another part of the Midwest, Gov-
ernor [Robert D.] Ray of Iowa is spear-
heading a six-State effort to find jobs for
returning Vietnam veterans.
This is responsive local government at
its best, and I urge other local leaders
in all our States to follow these examples.
The private sector has an equally im-
222
