Appendix B
July
6 The President announced the designation
of Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of the
Interior, and Stanley S. Scott, Special As-
sistant to the President, as his representa-
tives to the official celebration of the in-
dependence of the Commonwealth of the
Bahamas on July 10.
10 Robert F. Froehlke, who resigned as Sec-
retary of the Army, met with the President
at the White House.
10 The Farm Family of the Year, Mr. and
Mrs. Verl M. Buxton and their three chil-
dren, of Cache County, Utah, called on the
President at the White House.
10 A group of the President's economic advis
ers met with him in the Cabinet Room at
the White House to review the current eco-
nomic situation and to discuss the consul-
tations which have been going on preced-
ing Phase IV.
11 The President met at the White House with
members of the Cabinet to discuss the state
of the economy.
11 On behalf of the United States Capitol His-
torical Society, Senator Hubert H. Humph-
rey, Representative Gerald R. Ford, and
Arthur B. Hanson called on the President
at the White House to present him with
medallion number 1776 commemorating
the laying of the cornerstone of the U.S.
Capitol Building in 1793. Senator Humph-
rey was vice president of the Society, Repre-
sentative Ford was a member of the honor-
ary board of trustees, and Mr. Hanson was a
member of the active board of trustees.
11 The President hosted an informal recep-
tion at the White House for a group of 10
Republican Senators who had supported
him in the past.
12 The President talked by telephone with
Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr., chairman of the
Senate Select Committee on Presidential
Campaign Activities.
July
12 Walter Scheel, Foreign Minister of the
Federal Republic of Germany, met with the
President at the White House.
17 Vice President Spiro T. Agnew met with
the President at the Bethesda Naval Hos-
pital, Md., to discuss the economy.
17 Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott
called on the President at the Bethesda
Naval Hospital, Md.
18 At the President's request, the Vice Presi-
dent presided at a Cabinet meeting at the
White House to discuss the economy.
20 The President held a senior staff meeting
at the White House.
23 The Council of Economic Advisers met
with the President at the White House.
23 Senators Edward W. Brooke, John O. Pas-
tore, and Claiborne Pell and Representa-
tive Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., met with the
President at the White House to discuss
the closing of certain military bases in New
England.
24 The President participated in a promotion
ceremony at the White House for Dr. Wil-
liam M. Lukash, Assistant Physician to the
President, who was promoted to the rank
of rear admiral in the U.S. Navy.
26 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House to discuss legislative issues.
26 Russell E. Train, who was nominated for
the position of Administrator of the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, met with
the President.
26 Ambassadors Takeshi Yasukawa of Ja-
pan and Vincent Mavoungou of Gabon
presented their credentials to the Presi-
dent in ceremonies in the Oval Office at
the White House.
26 The President hosted a reception in the
Blue Room at the White House for mem-
bers of the House Republican Policy Com-
mittee.
1078
