[131] Apr. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
himself, but thinking of the President. He
is a man who does not think of himself
first, who does not think of his party first,
but who thinks always of America, his
country.
My friends, the strength that he stands
for, the military strength, the character
that he stands for, that strength and that
character is what America needs in the
days and years and months ahead, this
period which can lead to and, in my view,
will lead to a new period of peace in the
world and eventually, we trust, to a re-
duction of the burden of armaments which
weighs too heavily, not only on our own
people but on other peoples around the
world.
I see the plaque here. It reads, "John
Stennis, United States Senator, State of
Mississippi." And then a quote, "A strong
national defense is essential to the preser-
vation of our great Nation."
Ladies and gentlemen, a strong national
defense is also essential to the preserva-
tion of peace in the world—not just the
preservation of our great Nation, but the
preservation of peace in the world. A
strong America is the world's best guaran-
tee of peace, and John Stennis is the man
who stands for that strong America.
And may I say with regard to that man,
remarks have been made very eloquently
by Secretary Richardson as to how he
should be described. He can be described
as a proud son of Mississippi. He
can be described, also, as a very, very
proud leader of the United States Senate.
He can be described as a great American.
But today I go further than that. This
man, his leadership, it will be written in
history, helped the whole world, not just
his State, not just his Nation, but the
whole world.
So, if I may add to the dedication, I
would say very simply: I dedicate this
John C. Stennis Center not just as a mili-
tary base-it is that-I dedicate this cen-
ter as a base that is essential in America's
great role, our destiny, to build a world of
peace.
John Stennis will be remembered not
as a man of war, but as a man who was
strong enough to help America lead the
way to peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 am. at
the new training center at the naval air station.
132 Statement About Signing a Supplemental
Appropriations Bill. April 28, 1973
I HAVE SIGNED into law House Joint
Resolution 496, a bill providing supple-
mental appropriations of some $1.3 bil-
lion for a number of critical needs.
This legislation was urgently necessary
in order to meet this Nation's obligations
to our veterans. Last fall we substantially
increased the allowances for educational
and training assistance for our veterans.
That increase, along with a concerted
effort by the Veterans Administration to
inform veterans of their rights, has en-
couraged over 2 million veterans to par-
ticipate in the program during this fiscal
year-almost 125,000 more than we
anticipated.
As a result, money for educational as-
sistance and training assistance would
have become insufficient by April 30.
House Joint Resolution 496, by providing
324
