Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 14 [79]
For those with a prior felony narcotic
conviction who are convicted of traffick-
ing in less than four ounces, my proposed
legislation provides a mandatory prison
term of ten years to life imprisonment.
For second offenders who are convicted
of trafficking in more than four ounces, I
am proposing a mandatory sentence of life
imprisonment without parole.
While four ounces of a heroin mixture
may seem a very small amount to use as
the criterion for major penalties, that
amount is actually worth 12-15,000 dol-
lars and would supply about 180 addicts
for a day. Anyone selling four or more
ounces cannot be considered a small time
operator.
For those who are convicted of possess-
ing large amounts of heroin but cannot be
convicted of trafficking, I am proposing a
series of lesser penalties.
To be sure that judges actually apply
these tough sentences, my legislation
would provide that the mandatory mini-
mum sentences cannot be suspended, nor
probation granted.
The second portion of my proposed
legislation would deny pre-trial release to
those charged with trafficking in heroin
or morphine unless the judicial officer
finds that release will not pose a danger
to the persons or property of others. It
would also prohibit the release of anyone
convicted of one of the above felonies who
is awaiting sentencing or the results of an
appeal.
These are very harsh measures, to be
applied within very rigid guidelines and
providing only a minimum of sentencing
discretion to judges. But circumstances
warrant such provisions. All the evidence
shows that we are now doing a more
effective job in the areas of enforcement
and rehabilitation. In spite of this prog-
ress, however, we find an intolerably high
level of street crime being committed by
addicts. Part of the reason, I believe, lies
in the court system which takes over after
drug pushers have been apprehended.
The courts are frequently little more than
an escape hatch for those who are re-
sponsible for the menace of drugs.
Sometimes it seems that as fast as we
bail water out of the boat through law
enforcement and rehabilitation, it runs
right back in through the holes in our
judicial system. I intend to plug those
holes. Until then, all the money we spend,
all the enforcement we provide, and all
the rehabilitation services we offer are not
going to solve the drug problem in
America.
Finally, I want to emphasize my con-
tinued opposition to legalizing the posses-
sion, sale or use of marijuana. There is no
question about whether marijuana is
dangerous, the only question is how dan-
gerous. While the matter is still in dispute,
the only responsible governmental ap-
proach is to prevent marijuana from be-
ing legalized. I intend, as I have said
before, to do just that.
CONCLUSION
This Nation has fought hard and
sacrificed greatly to achieve a lasting peace
in the world. Peace in the world, however,
must be accompanied by peace in our own
land. Of what ultimate value is it to end
the threat to our national safety in the
world if our citizens face a constant threat
to their personal safety in our own streets?
The American people are a law-abiding
people. They have faith in the law. It is
now time for Government to justify that
201
