Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 12 [7]
of important steps to hold down food
prices in the best possible way-by in-
creasing food supply. I believe all these
efforts will enable us to check effectively
the rising cost of food without damaging
the growing prosperity of American
farmers. Other special actions which will
be taken to fight inflation include con-
tinuing the present mandatory controls
over the health and construction indus-
tries and continuing the present successful
program for interest and dividends.
The new policies I am announcing to-
day can mean even greater price stability
with less restrictive bureaucracy. Their
success, however, will now depend on a
firm spirit of self-restraint both within the
Federal Government and among the
general public. If the Congress will receive
our new budget with a high sense of fiscal
responsibility and if the public will con-
tinue to demonstrate the same spirit of
voluntary cooperation which was so im-
portant during Phase I and Phase II, then
we can bring the inflation rate below 21/2
percent and usher in an unprecedented
era of full and stable prosperity.
The White House,
January 11, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11695, continuing and modi-
fying the Cost of Living Council, and the White
House released announcements of the appoint-
ments of John T. Dunlop as Council Director
and of 10 members of the Labor-Management
Advisory Committee. The announcements are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 9, p. 21).
Also released was the following related mate-
rial: the text of the draft bill; the transcript
of a news briefing on Phase III programs by
George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury and
Chairman of the Cost of Living Council; and
fact sheets on the history of the economic sta-
bilization program and the new actions and pro-
cedures of Phase III. The fact sheet on Phase
III is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 22).
7 Remarks at a Reception Honoring Members of the
Shenyang Acrobatic Troupe of the People's Republic of
China. January 12, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
We are very happy to welcome you offi-
cially here in the White House and to
thank you for the splendid achievement
that you have made in your trip in the
United States. This is the first group of
performing artists to come from the Peo-
ple's Republic of China to the United
States of America in a quarter of a cen-
tury. And I am sure that all of those who
have had the privilege of seeing you will
say
the first was the best.
I can say that based on the reports that
I have had from Mrs. Nixon, who was
there for the first night, and also from
my daughter, who was there on the third
night, you have, by coming such a great
distance from your country to our coun-
try, brought us a very great gift. You have
brought us the talent of great artists. But
even more important, you have brought
us a greater gift.
My daughter reported how impressed
she was by your talent in your perform-
ance at the Kennedy Center. She reported
how the audience stood and applauded
after most of the acts. But she reported
that the greatest applause was at the con-
II
