[128] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
late new exploration and development.
At the same time, because increased prices
on new unregulated gas would be aver-
aged in with the prices for gas that is still
regulated, the consumer should be pro-
tected against precipitous cost increases.
To add further consumer protection
against unjustified price increases, I pro-
pose that the Secretary of the Interior be
given authority to impose a ceiling on the
price of new natural gas when circum-
stances warrant. Before exercising this
power, the Secretary would consider the
cost of alternative domestic fuels, taking
into account the superiority of natural gas
from an environmental standpoint. He
would also consider the importance of en-
couraging production and more efficient
use of natural gas.
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF
Approximately half of the oil and gas
resources in this country are located on
public lands, primarily on the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf (OCS). The speed at which
we can increase our domestic energy pro-
duction will depend in large measure on
how rapidly these resources can be de-
veloped.
Since 1954, the Department of the In-
terior has leased to private developers al-
most 8 million acres on the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf. But this is only a small per-
centage of these potentially productive
areas. At a time when we are being forced
to obtain almost 30 percent of our oil from
foreign sources, this level of development
is not adequate.
I am therefore directing the Secretary
of the Interior to take steps which would
triple the annual acreage leased on the
Outer Continental Shelf by 1979, begin-
ning with expanded sales in 1974 in the
Gulf of Mexico and including areas be-
yond 200 meters in depth under conditions
consistent with my oceans policy state-
ment of May, 1970. By 1985, this acceler-
ated leasing rate could increase annual
energy production by an estimated 1.5
billion barrels of oil approximately 16
percent of our projected oil requirements
in that year), and 5 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas (approximately 20 percent of
expected demand for natural gas that
year).
In the past, a central concern in bring-
ing these particular resources into produc-
tion has been the threat of environmental
damage. Today, new techniques, new reg-
ulations and standards, and new surveil-
lance capabilities enable us to reduce and
control environmental dangers substan-
tially. We should now take advantage of
this progress. The resources under the
Shelf, and on all our public lands, belong
to all Americans, and the critical needs
of all Americans for new energy supplies
require that we develop them.
If at any time it is determined that ex-
ploration and development of a specific
shelf area can only proceed with inade-
quate protection of the environment, we
will not commence or continue operations.
This policy was reflected in the suspension
of 35 leases in the Santa Barbara Channel
in 1971. We are continuing the Santa
Barbara suspensions, and I again request
that the Congress pass legislation that
would provide for appropriate settlement
for those who are forced to relinquish
their leases in the area.
At the same time, I am directing the
Secretary of the Interior to proceed with
leasing the Outer Continental Shelf be-
yond the Channel Islands of California if
the reviews now underway show that the
environmental risks are acceptable.
306
