[201] July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
year in America, an estimated 12,000 per-
sons-many of them children and elderly
people perish in fires; some 300,000
more are burned badly enough to require
medical treatment. Fire is also one of the
greatest wasters of our natural resources.
The total cost of destructive fire in this
country, in financial terms, is estimated
at more than $11 billion a year; its cost
in human terms is beyond calculation.
One of the Commission's principal con-
clusions is that we need to place more em-
phasis on fire prevention, rather than
simply on reacting to fires after they start.
Its report recommends that fire depart-
ments and other public agencies and civic
groups should step up their efforts in
establishing and enforcing fire prevention
codes and in educating all our citizens to
prevent fires.
I concur with the Commission's strong
feeling that fire prevention and control
should continue to be primarily the re-
sponsibility of local communities. Reve-
nue sharing, I am happy to note, provides
local governments with increased re-
sources to meet this basic imperative of
community protection more effectively.
The report also calls for an increased
Federal response to the fire problem, and
the Commission's proposals in this regard
will receive careful consideration by my
Administration. Much is already being
done at the Federal level to lend assist-
ance to State and local governments to
deal with this problem, but the excellent
study this Commission has conducted will
certainly be helpful in improving the ef-
fectiveness of our efforts still further.
I urge all appropriate Federal, State,
and city officials across the country, as
well as leaders in other fields who are
concerned with these problems, to study
the analysis of the fire problem as out-
lined in the Commission's report. A con-
certed national effort to improve our
methods of fire prevention and control
could result not only in vast savings of
human lives, property, and environmental
quality but also in greater peace of mind
for every American home and commu-
nity.
NOTE: The President received the report in
the Oval Office at the White House during a
meeting with Commission Chairman Richard
E. Bland, Vice Chairman W. Howard McClen-
nan, and Executive Director Howard D.
Tipton.
The report is entitled "America Burning-
The Report of the National Commission on
Fire Prevention and Control" (Government
Printing Office, 177 pp.).
202 White House Statement About the Failure To Confirm
Ambassador G. McMurtrie Godley as an Assistant
Secretary of State. July 12, 1973
THE PRESIDENT deeply regrets the
failure of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee to act favorably on the nomi-
nation of Ambassador Godley for the posi-
tion of Assistant Secretary of State for East
Asian and Pacific Affairs.
It is deplorable that this distinguished
Foreign Service officer should be penal-
ized for faithfully carrying out the policies
of his Government, which were not set by
him. The consequences of this commit-
tee action go far beyond the injustice done
644
