[329] Nov. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
tainerization movement has been excel-
lent and the present Convention is based
on existing safety standards.
The Customs Convention on Contain-
ers, 1972, and the International Conven-
tion for Safe Containers will make a
significant contribution to efforts to estab-
lish uniform international regulations
regarding containers.
The White House,
November 14, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The texts of the conventions and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
X (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
330 Remarks at the National Association of Realtors
Annual Convention. November 15, 1973
President Sawyer, all of the distinguished
gentlemen on the platform, and all of the
very distinguished ladies and gentlemen
who are here for this convention of the
National Association of Realtors, and your
guests:
First, I am most grateful for this
presentation,' and I hope I will not have
to use it in some places. But in any event,
it will always be a symbol of my affection
for you, whom I have known for many,
many years, long before I became Presi-
dent, and also of what I appreciate, your
receiving me so well this morning.
And, Mr. President, I should mention
that as I looked over the background
material, I am able to say today to this
group that I am honored to be the first
President of the United States since 1960,
when Dwight Eisenhower addressed
you, to address the National Association
of Realtors.
Now, there must be a pretty good reason
for that, and it may not have occurred to
you, but I should point it out to you, and
¹J. D. Sawyer, president of the National As-
sociation of Realtors, presented the President
with a gavel made of wood from the home of
George Washington and metal from the deck
of the battleship Missouri.
that is this: All I own in the world is real
estate. I think it is a good investment.
I remember in the year 1968 when I
decided to become a candidate for Presi-
dent of the United States-that is not
quite correct; I decided to become a can-
didate several times for President of the
United States but in the year 1968, when
I decided to become a candidate, I read
of the difficulties that Cabinet officers,
Presidents, et cetera, had had through the
years when questions were raised with
regard to owning stocks and bonds and
blind trusts, and all that sort of thing, and
although those difficulties had been raised,
I knew that in each case when they had
been raised where a President was con-
cerned, I had no doubt about his integ-
rity, but I felt that in this instance there
was only one thing to do, and that was to
make sure that there would be no ques-
tion about whatever I had acquired, and
consequently, I sold what few stocks I
owned, I sold my apartment in New York,
I bought a house in California, I bought
also my mother's house in California, and
I bought two pieces of property in Florida,
one of which I have since sold, and that is
what I own.
I believe in America, and I believe in
934
