Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
they were disappointments, too, to Af-
ricans who are working for peace and
justice on the continent.
The situation in Burundi posed a gen-
uine dilemma for us and for African
countries. Non-interference in the internal
political affairs of other countries is a par-
amount and indispensable principle of in-
ternational relations. But countries have a
right to take positions of conscience. We
would have expected that the first respon-
sibility for taking such positions rested
upon the African nations, either individ-
ually or collectively. The United States
urged African leaders to address the prob-
lem of the killings in Burundi. We pro-
vided humanitarian assistance, impar-
tially, to those who needed it in Burundi
or who fled. All of the African leaders we
spoke to voiced their concern to us; some
raised it with Burundi's leaders. But ulti-
mately none spoke out when these diplo-
matic efforts failed.
In Uganda, the attacks on that coun-
try's intellectual class, as well as the ex-
pulsion of Asians, were deplorable trag-
edies. The United States has provided
refuge for some of the Asians, whose ex-.
pulsion, whatever the rationale, had racial
implications which do no credit or service
to Africa.
While events in these two countries
were tragic in comparison with the con-
tinent's other achievements, the ability of
African leaders to maintain independence
and territorial integrity while welding
ethnic diversity into nationhood remains
an undeniable source of real hope for the
future.
SOUTHERN AFRICA
The denial of basic rights to southern
Africa's black majorities continues to be a
concern for the American people because
of our belief in self-determination and
racial equality.
Our views about South Africa's de-
humanizing system of apartheid have been
expressed repeatedly by this Administra-
tion in the United Nations, in other in-
ternational forums, and in public state-
ments. As I said in my Foreign Policy
Report two years ago, however, “just as
we will not condone the violence to
human dignity implicit in apartheid, we
cannot associate ourselves with those who
call for a violent solution to these
problems."
We should also recognize that South
Africa is a dynamic society with an ad-
vanced economy, whose continued growth
requires raising the skills and participation
of its non-white majority. It is particu-
larly gratifying that some American com-
panies have taken the lead in encourag-
ing this. They recognized that they were
in a unique position to upgrade condi-
tions and opportunities for all their em-
ployees regardless of race, to the fullest
extent possible under South African laws.
In addition, we have sought to main-
tain contact with all segments of South
African society. We do not endorse the
racial policies of South Africa's leaders.
But we do not believe that isolating them
from the influence of the rest of the world
is an effective way of encouraging them
to follow a course of moderation and to
accommodate change.
In the Portuguese territories, we favor
self-determination. We have clearly ex-
pressed this position in the United Na-
tions, and we shall continue to do so.
The United States continues to en-
force-more strictly than many other
countries—an embargo on sales of arms
465
