Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
efforts to establish such a peace in two
important ways. First, it maintains the
military strength we will need to support
our negotiations and diplomacy. Second, it
proposes a sound fiscal policy that, sup-
ported by a complementary monetary
policy, will contribute to prosperity and
economic stability here and abroad.
Our strength, together with our will-
ingness to negotiate, already has enabled
us to begin building a structure for last-
ing world peace and to contribute to a
general relaxation of world tensions.
-We have made substantial progress
toward ending our involvement in
the difficult war in Southeast Asia.
-In the past 4 years, we have con-
cluded more significant agreements
with the Soviet Union than in all
previous years since World War II,
including the historic agreement for
limiting strategic nuclear arms.
-We have ended nearly a quarter cen-
tury of mutual isolation between the
United States and the People's Re-
public of China and can look for-
ward to the development of peaceful
cooperation in areas of mutual
interest.
In this atmosphere, other nations have
also begun to move toward peaceful set-
tlement of their differences.
One of the results of our negotiations,
taken together with the success of the
Nixon Doctrine, our substantial disengage-
ment from Vietnam, and the increased
effectiveness of newer weapons systems,
has been a significant but prudent reduc-
tion in our military forces. Total man-
power has been reduced by about one-
third since 1968, and will be further
reduced as we end the draft and achieve
an All-Volunteer Force. At the same time,
our allies are assuming an increasing share
of the burden of providing for their
defense.
As a result, defense outlays have been
kept in line. In 1974, they will be sub-
stantially the same as in 1968. During the
same period, the total budget has grown
by 50%, and nondefense outlays have
grown by 91%, or $90 billion. When ad-
justed for pay and price increases, defense
spending in 1974 will be about the same as
in 1973 and about one-third below 1968.
But, while this Administration has suc-
ceeded in eliminating unnecessary defense
spending, it is equally determined to spend
whatever is necessary for national secu-
rity. Our 1974 budget achieves this goal.
It assures us of sufficient strength to pre-
serve our security and to continue as a
major force for peace. Moreover, this
strength will be supported, beginning this
year, without reliance on a peacetime
draft.
A framework for international eco-
nomic progress is an important part of
our efforts for peace. A solid beginning
has been made on international monetary
reform through our participation in the
ongoing discussions of the Committee of
Twenty. We will continue to press these
efforts during the year ahead.
Our foreign assistance programs also
reflect our intention to build a lasting
structure of peace through a mutual shar-
ing of burdens and benefits. America will
remain firm in its support of friendly na-
tions that seek economic advancement and
a secure defense. But we also expect other
nations to do their part, and the 1974
budget for foreign assistance is based upon
this expectation.
Our goal is a durable peace that is sus-
tained by the self-interest of all nations
in preserving it. Our continuing military
strength and our programs for interna-
41
