Richard Nixon, 1973
June 27 [188]
Senate give early and favorable considera-
to the Treaty and give its advice and con-
sent to ratification.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
June 26, 1973.
NOTE: The text of the message was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
The text of the treaty and accompanying
papers are printed in Senate Executive M (93d
Cong., 1st sess.).
188 Veto of the Supplemental Appropriations Bill
Containing a Restriction on United States Air
Operations in Cambodia. June 27, 1973
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today without my ap-
proval H.R. 7447, the Second Supple-
mental Appropriation Act of 1973.
I am doing so because of my grave con-
cern that the enactment into law of the
"Cambodia rider" to this bill would crip-
ple or destroy the chances for an effective
negotiated settlement in Cambodia and
the withdrawal of all North Vietnamese
troops, as required by Article 20 of the
January 27 Vietnam agreement.
After more than ten arduous years of
suffering and sacrifice in Indochina, an
equitable framework for peace was finally
agreed to in Paris last January. We are
now involved in concluding the last ele-
ment of that settlement, a Cambodian
settlement. It would be nothing short of
tragic if this great accomplishment,
bought with the blood of so many Asians
and Americans, were to be undone now by
Congressional action.
The decision to veto is never easy, but
in this case there is no other responsible
course open to me. To understand this
decision, we should all recognize what the
full impact would be if we call a total halt
to U.S. air operations in Cambodia, as
now sought by the Congress:
-A total halt would virtually remove
Communist incentive to negotiate and
would thus seriously undercut ongoing
diplomatic efforts to achieve a ceasefire in
Cambodia. It would effectively reverse
the momentum towards lasting peace in
Indochina set in motion last January and
renewed in the four-party communique
signed in Paris on June 13.
-The proposed halt would also gravely
jeopardize the ability of the Cambodian
armed forces to prevent a Communist
military victory achieved with the assist-
ance of outside forces and the installation
of a Hanoi-controlled government in
Phnom Penh.
-A Communist victory in Cambodia,
in turn, would threaten the fragile balance
of negotiated agreements, political align-
ments and military capabilities upon
which the overall peace in Southeast Asia
depends and on which my assessment
of the acceptability of the Vietnam agree-
ments was based.
-Finally, and with even more serious
global implications, the legislatively im-
posed acceptance of the United States to
Communist violations of the Paris agree-
ments and the conquest of Cambodia by
Communist forces would call into ques-
tion our national commitment not only
to the Vietnam settlement but to many
621
