[152] May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
showcase of skill and spirit, giving uni-
versal delight and inspiration. More than
that, his selfless dedication to helping
those with two strikes against them in life
blessed thousands and set an example for
millions. As long as athletes and humani-
tarians are honored, Roberto Clemente's
memory will live: as long as Citizens
Medals are presented, each will mean a
little more because this first one went to
him."
[At this point, the President presented the
medal to Mrs. Roberto Clemente. He then
resumed speaking.]
Let me say our only regret is that he
isn't here-but he's really here--I think
he is here in this room. Don't you think
so? I think he would be proud to be the
first American to get this medal, too, the
first one.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we will
have another ceremony, the signing of a
special bill setting up a commemorative
medal. The bill was introduced in the
House by Congressman Moorhead, who
represents that district, and in the Senate
by Senator Scott.
It was a bill which received, as you
might imagine, overwhelming and unani-
mous support in both the House and the
Senate. Senator Schweiker here was also
a cosponsor of the bill, from Pennsylvania.
I am sure that there would be 100 Mem-
bers from the Senate down here and all
435 Members of the House, on this occa-
sion, if we had that much room.
Mrs. Clemente, if you will step between
these gentlemen, and I will sit down and
sign the bill. I think while the custom
usually is to give the first pen to the spon-
soring Congressmen or Senators, that the
sponsoring Congressmen and Senators
would want me to present this pen to Mrs.
Clemente. And on that also, we will have
souvenir pens for everybody attending this
ceremony, the Governor and all the rest.
Senator Scott, you are recognized for
the purpose of responding for the whole
group.
SENATOR HUGH SCOTT. Two minutes?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No, you can take 2
minutes and yield 2 minutes, if you like,
to Senator Schweiker or Congressman
Moorhead.
SENATOR SCOTT. Mr. President, I think
the story of Roberto Clemente is too well
known for repeating, and he died, as we
all know, on a compassionate errand. In
that errand, for Nicaraguan relief, he had
raised, himself, $150,000 and 26 tons of
clothing. And it should be noted that the
first contribution to that fund came from
the President and Mrs. Nixon, in addition
to which, very near to his heart, was the
Puerto Rican sports center to which he
gave much time and thought, because he
believed that if kids didn't particularly
like one sport while another one appealed
to them, in one way or another they would
get more active and learn what is to be
gained from participating in that sport.
So that we all are very proud of him. We
all miss him and I am glad Mrs. Clemente
is here, and some of his teammates.
And, if I may, I will yield to Senator
Schweiker and then to Congressman
Moorhead.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Schweiker.
SENATOR RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER. I
would like to strongly say that we are not
only proud of him as a Pennsylvanian, but
proud of everybody who joined in his
efforts, and I am delighted to be a small
part of this today.
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman.
CONGRESSMAN WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD.
Thank you, Mr. President.
530
