[296] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
pulse the enemy. He occupied a dangerously
exposed observation position for a period of
four hours while directing friendly air strikes
and artillery fire against the assaulting enemy
forces. His personal bravery and inspired
leadership enabled the outnumbered friendly
forces to inflict a maximum of casualties on the
attacking enemy forces and prevented the base
from being overrun. By late afternoon, the situ
ation had become untenable. Lieutenant
Thacker organized and directed the withdrawal
of the remaining friendly forces. With com-
plete disregard for his personal safety, he re-
mained inside the perimeter alone to provide
covering fire with his M-16 rifle until all other
friendly forces had escaped from the besieged
fire base. Then, in an act of supreme courage,
he called for friendly artillery fire on his own
position to allow his comrades more time to
withdraw safely from the area and, at the
same time, inflict even greater casualties on the
enemy forces. Although wounded and unable
to escape from the area himself, he successfully
eluded the enemy forces for eight days until
friendly forces regained control of the fire base.
The extraordinary courage and selflessness dis-
played by Lieutenant Thacker were an inspira-
tion to his comrades and are in the highest
traditions of the military service.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of Amer-
ica, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3,
1863, has awarded in the name of The Con-
gress the Medal of Honor to
SERGEANT FIRST CLASS GARY L. LITTRELL
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
Sergeant First Class Gary L. Littrell, United
States Military Assistance Command, Vietnam,
Advisory Team 21, distinguished himself dur-
ing the period April 4 to 8, 1970 while serving
as a Light Weapons Infantry Advisor with the
23rd Battalion, 2nd Ranger Group, Republic
of Vietnam Army, near Dak Seang in Kontum
Province, Republic of Vietnam. After establish-
ing a defensive perimeter on a hill on April 4,
the battalion was subjected to an intense enemy
mortar attack which killed the Vietnamese
commander, one advisor, and seriously
wounded all the advisors except Sergeant Lit-
trell. During the ensuing four days, Sergeant
Littrell exhibited near superhuman endurance
and conspicuous gallantry as he single-
handedly bolstered the besieged battalion. Re-
peatedly abandoning positions of relative safety,
he directed artillery and air support by day and
marked the unit's location by night, despite the
heavy, concentrated enemy fire. His dauntless
will instilled in the men of the 23rd Battalion
a deep desire to resist. Assault after assault was
repulsed as the battalion responded to the ex-
traordinary leadership and personal example
exhibited by Sergeant Littrell as he continu-
ously moved to those points most seriously
threatened by the enemy, redistributed ammu-
nition, strengthened faltering defenses, cared
for the wounded and shouted encouragement
to the Vietnamese in their own language. When
the beleaguered battalion was finally ordered
to withdraw, numerous ambushes were encoun-
tered. Sergeant Littrell repeatedly prevented
widespread disorder by directing air strikes to
within 50 meters of their position. Through his
indomitable courage and complete disregard
for his safety, he averted excessive loss of life
and injury to the members of the battalion. The
sustained extraordinary courage and selflessness
displayed by Sergeant Littrell over an extended
period of time were in keeping with the highest
traditions of the military service and reflect
great credit on him and the United States
Army.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of Amer-
ica, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3,
1863, has awarded in the name of The Con-
gress the Medal of Honor to
STAFF SERGEANT JAMES L. BONDSTEEL
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
Staff Sergeant James L. Bondsteel, United
872
