Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 5 [108]
Congress reflect the results of an intensive
effort to identify Federal programs that
should be reformed, cut back or elimi-
nated. In each case we asked one simple
question: would this program justify an
increase in taxes in order to pay for it?
The rural water and sewer program,
which was launched eight years ago to
assist rural communities in constructing
water and sewer lines, failed that test. It
forced the Federal taxpayer to pay for
services that should be locally financed,
and it did so in a most uneven and ques-
tionable way. We therefore terminated it
on January 1, 1973, as part of our deter-
mined effort to hold down taxes and com-
bat inflation.
Now the Congress seeks to revive the
program. This is a disservice to the tax-
payers of this country which I am not
prepared to accept.
For many years, local communities have
proudly financed and built their own
water and sewer facilities. They have
recognized that these services are pri-
marily local in nature and should be pri-
marily a local responsibility-just as local
communities pay for their own garbage
services and fire protection.
Resurrection of the rural water and
sewer program would serve only to under-
cut that tradition, shoving aside local au-
thorities for the increasingly powerful
Federal Government.
This program also enlarges the Federal
responsibility in a particularly ineffective
and insidious way. Experience has shown
that water and sewer grants have been
distributed in a totally scattershot fashion.
Many rural communities, although quali-
fied under the program, have built their
own water and sewage systems without
waiting for Federal help. They need no
incentive from Washington. Yet, in other
cases, the water and sewer grants actually
delay construction, as communities which
would ordinarily finance the facilities on
their own, choose instead to wait in line
for Federal subsidies. The result has been
a very uneven pattern of distribution. It
should also come as no surprise that over
time the program has attained a distinct
flavor of porkbarrel.
Moreover, by singling out a relatively
small group of people to receive Federal
grants to help build their private water
and sewer lines, this program forces the
majority of taxpayers, in effect, to pay
double taxes: once to build their own fa-
cilities and then again to build the sewers
in someone else's backyard. This double
taxation leads to little national good and
deserves to be stopped, especially at a time
when we are earnestly seeking to hold
the line on Federal spending.
In view of the many defects in this
program, I am convinced that it should
no longer be inflicted on the American
taxpayer. Congressional restoration of
water and sewer grants at the appropri-
ated level of H.R. 3298 would increase
Federal spending by at least $300 million
during fiscal years 1973-1975. This would
represent a dangerous crack in the fiscal
dam that this Administration has con-
structed to hold back a further flood of
inflation or higher taxes, or both.
A grave constitutional question is also
raised by H.R. 3298, which purports to
mandate the spending of the full amount
appropriated by the Congress. The At-
torney General has advised me that such
a mandate conflicts with the allocation of
executive power to the President made by
Article II of the Constitution. Thus, H.R.
3298 is objectionable not only in its prac-
tical and economic aspects, but on basic
legal grounds as well.
31-870 - 75 - 20
255
