Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 31 [23]
ever done. I hope that his spirit would see
him through this physically and in every
other way, because of all the Senators in
the United States Senate, Democrat or
Republican, in terms of our being able to
achieve the honorable peace we have
achieved, John Stennis was the most
indispensable.
GUN CONTROL
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
ask you, along those lines, you said it was
such a senseless thing. The White House,
this Administration, has not spoken out
very strongly against gun controls, par-
ticularly handguns. I would like to know
perhaps if maybe you are going to have
second thoughts about that now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
the problem with that is not so much the
White House speaking out on handguns
and Saturday night specials, which I think
this may have been. I haven't seen the
latest reports, but the doctor last night
told me it was a .22 caliber cheap gun
kind of a thing, and Mrs. Stennis said it
sounded like firecrackers. Obviously if
they had had a .45, he would be dead.
We have, and I have, as you know,
advocated legislation to deal with what
we call the Saturday night specials, which
can be acquired by anybody, including
juveniles, and apparently there are some
suggestions that juveniles were those in-
volved in this case. I am not charging
that, incidentally. I am saying what I read
in the papers, most of which, as you know,
is true.
So, under the circumstances, I feel that
Senator Hruska, who introduced the bill
before and then it came a cropper in the
Senate Judiciary Committee, will now
work with the Judiciary Committee in
attempting to find the formula which will
get the support necessary to deal with this
specific problem, without, at the same
time, running afoul of the rights of those
who believe that they need guns for hunt-
ing and all that sort of thing.
Let me say, personally, I have never
hunted in my life. I have no interest in
guns and so forth. I am not interested in
the National Rifle Association or any-
thing from a personal standpoint. But I
do know that, in terms of the United
States Congress, what we need is a precise
definition which will keep the guns out of
the hands of the criminals and not one
that will impinge on the rights of others
to have them for their own purposes in a
legitimate way.
;I
Incidentally, the legislation that we
originally suggested or that we discussed
with Senator Hruska, I thought precisely
dealt with the problem, but it did not
get through the Senate. My guess is that
Senator Stennis-everything perhaps has
a down side and an up side; I guess every-
thing really does-but the very fact that
Senator Stennis was the victim of one of
these things we thought this was the
case when Governor Wallace was-but
in this instance, it was apparently one of
these small handguns that most people,
most reasonable people, except for the all-
out opponents of any kind of legislation in
this field, most reasonable people believe
it should be controlled. Perhaps we can
get some action. I hope the Senate does
act.
I have asked the Attorney General-
had asked incidentally before this hap-
pened as one of his projects for this year
to give us a legislative formula, not one
that would simply speak to the country,
59
