Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 15 [44]
mental business of the 92nd Congress can
become the environmental achievements
of the 93rd.
Among these 19 proposals are eight
whose passage would give us much greater
control over the sources of pollution:
-Toxic Substances. Many new chemi-
cals can pose hazards to humans and the
environment and are not well regulated.
Authority is now needed to provide ade-
quate testing standards for chemical sub-
stances and to restrict or prevent their
distribution if testing confirms a hazard.
Hazardous Wastes. Land disposal of
hazardous wastes has always been widely
practiced but is now becoming more
prevalent because of strict air and water
pollution control programs. The disposal
of the extremely hazardous wastes which
endanger the health of humans and other
organisms is a problem requiring direct
Federal regulation. For other hazardous
wastes, Federal standards should be es-
tablished with guidelines for State reg-
ulatory programs to carry them out.
-Safe Drinking Water. Federal action
is also needed to stimulate greater State
and local action to ensure high standards
for our drinking water. We should estab-
lish national drinking water standards,
with primary enforcement and monitor-
ing powers retained by the State and local
agencies, as well as a Federal requirement
that suppliers notify their customers of
the quality of their water.
-Sulfur Oxides Emissions Charge. We
now have national standards to help cur-
tail sulfur emitted into the atmosphere
from combustion, refining, smelting and
other processes, but sulfur oxides continue
to be among our most harmful air pol-
lutants. For that reason, I favor legisla-
tion which would allow the Federal Gov-
ernment to impose a special financial
charge on those who produce sulfur oxide
emissions. This legislation would also help
to ensure that low-sulfur fuels are allo-
cated to areas where they are most
urgently needed to protect the public
health.
-Sediment Control. Sediment from
soil erosion and runoff continues to be
a pervasive pollutant of our waters. Leg-
islation is needed to ensure that the States
make the control of sediment from new
construction a vital part of their water
quality programs.
-Controlling Environmental Impacts
of Transportation. As we have learned in
recent years, we urgently need a mass
transportation system not only to relieve
urban congestion but also to reduce the
concentrations of pollution that are too
often the result of our present methods
of transportation. Thus I will continue
to place high priority upon my request
to permit use of the Highway Trust Fund
for mass transit purposes and to help
State and local governments achieve air
quality, conserve energy, and meet other
environmental objectives.
-United Nations Environmental
Fund. Last year the United Nations
adopted my proposal to establish a fund
to coordinate and support international
environmental programs. My 1974 budget
includes a request for $10 million as our
initial contribution toward the Fund's
five-year goal of $100 million, and I rec-
ommend authorizing legislation for this
purpose.
-Ocean Dumping Convention. Along
with 91 other nations, the United States
recently concluded an international con-
vention calling for regulation of ocean
dumping. I am most anxious to obtain the
97
