[53] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
prompt adoption by the Congress of an
overall spending ceiling for each fiscal
year. This action would allow the Con-
gress to work jointly with me in holding
spending to $250 billion in the current
fiscal year, $269 billion next year, and
$288 billion in fiscal year 1975. Beyond
the adoption of an annual ceiling, I also
recommend that the Congress consider
internal reforms which would establish
a regular mechanism for deciding how to
maintain the ceiling.
I have no economic recommendation to
make to the Congress which is more im-
portant to the economic well-being of
our people.
I believe that most members of the
House and Senate want to hold down
spending. Most Congressmen voted for a
spending ceiling in principle when the
Senate and House approved a ceiling last
fall. Unfortunately the two bodies could
not get together on a final version. I
believe they must get together soon-so
that the Congress can proceed this year
with a firm sense of budget discipline.
The stakes are high. If we do not re-
strain spending and if my recommended
cuts are reversed, it would take a 15 per-
cent increase in income taxes to pay for
the additional expenditures.
The separation of powers between the
President and the Congress has become
a favorite topic of discussion in recent
weeks. We should never, of course, lose
our sharp concern for maintaining Con-
stitutional balances.
But we should never overlook the fact
we have joint responsibilities as well as
separate powers.
There are many areas in which the
President and the Congress should and
must work together in behalf of all the
people and the level of spending, since
it directly affects the pocketbooks of every
family in the land, is one of the most
critical.
I have fulfilled my pledge that I would
not recommend any programs that would
require a general tax increase or would
create inflationary pressures.
Now it is up to the Congress to match
these efforts with a spending ceiling of
its own.
MAKING A CHOICE
We stand on the threshold of a new era
of prolonged and growing prosperity for
the United States.
Unlike past booms, this new prosperity
will not depend on the stimulus of war.
It will not be eaten away by the blight
of inflation.
It will be solid; it will be steady; and
it will be sustainable.
If we act responsibly, this new pros-
perity can be ours for many years to come.
If we don't, then, as Franklin Roosevelt
once warned, we could be "wrecked on
(the) rocks of loose fiscal policy."
The choice is ours. Let us choose re-
sponsible prosperity.
The White House,
February 22, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the third in a series
of six messages to the Congress on the state
of the Union.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the message
by Ezra Solomon, member of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
124
