[98] Mar. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the respect of our adversaries. We are
the strongest and most prosperous nation
in the world. Because of our strength,
America has the magnificent opportunity
to play the leading role of bringing down
the walls of hostility which divide the peo-
ple of the world, in reducing the burden
of armaments in the world, of building a
structure of lasting peace in the world.
And because of our wealth, we have the
means to move forward at home on excit-
ing new programs-programs for progress
which will provide better environment,
education, housing, and health care for
all Americans and which will enable us to
be more generous to the poor, the elderly,
the disabled, and the disadvantaged than
any nation in the history of the world.
These are goals worthy of a great peo-
ple. Let us, therefore, put aside those hon-
est differences about war which have
divided us and dedicate ourselves to meet
the great challenges of peace which can
unite us. As we do, let us not overlook a
third element, an element more important
even than military might or economic
power, because it is essential for greatness
in a nation.
The pages of history are strewn with the
wreckage of nations which fell by the
wayside at the height of their strength and
wealth because their people became weak,
soft, and self-indulgent and lost the char-
acter and the spirit which had led to their
greatness.
As I speak to you tonight, I am con-
fident that will not happen to America.
And my confidence has been increased by
the fact that a war which cost America so
much in lives and money and division at
home has, as it ended, provided an oppor-
tunity for millions of Americans to see
again the character and the spirit which
made America a great nation.
A few days ago in this room, I talked to
a man who had spent almost 8 years in a
Communist prison camp in North Viet-
nam. For over 4 years he was in solitary
confinement. In that 4-year period he
never saw and never talked to another
human being except his Communist
captors. He lived on two meals a day,
usually just a piece of bread, a bowl of
soup. All he was given to read was Com-
munist propaganda. All he could listen to
was the Communist propaganda on radio.
I asked him how he was able to survive
it and come home, standing tall and
proud, saluting the American flag. He
paused a long time before he answered.
And then he said, "It is difficult for me to
answer. I am not very good at words. All
I can say is that it was faith--faith in God
and faith in my country."
If men who suffered so much for Amer-
ica can have such faith, let us who have
received so much from America renew our
faith our faith in God, our faith in our
country, and our faith in ourselves.
If we meet the great challenges of peace
that lie ahead with this kind of faith, then
one day it will be written: This was
America's finest hour.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 pm. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
was broadcast live on nationwide radio and
television.
On the same day, the White House released
an advance text of the President's address.
The President was referring to Col. Robin-
son Risner, USAF, with whom he met on
March 12, 1973. On the same day, the Presi-
dent also met with former prisoner of war Capt.
Jeremiah A. Denton, Jr., USN.
238
