Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
The Task of Negotiations. We now
have the chance to move from confronta-
tion to negotiation in the field of trade.
The negotiating process holds the greatest
hope for reducing barriers to our exports,
for resolving trade differences with
friends, and for developing the improved
trading system the world needs.
The impending negotiations can sub-
stantially lower world tariff barriers. But
we do not look upon this effort merely as
another round of tariff reductions-an
area in which much progress has already
been made. They also provide a major op-
portunity to settle a variety of other trade
issues. Most nations employ a variety of
non-tariff trade barriers. A number of
these are erected for social, political, and
security reasons. Others exist because of
government procurement, health, and
safety standards. It will be hard to elimi-
nate these barriers or reduce their trade
distorting effects without affecting the do-
mestic interests that fostered them. But
minimizing their adverse trade effects will
open broad new areas for international
commerce.
The majority of the world's people, in
all nations, will benefit from more open
agricultural trade and the resulting lower
cost and increased availability of farm
products. It is particularly important to
the United States to remove the barriers
which stand in the way of expanded agri-
cultural trade. We are efficient producers
of many farm commodities, and our farm
policies are predicated on a more open,
more market-oriented agricultural trad-
ing system.
Preferential
trading arrangements,
which discriminate against the trade of
those who do not participate in them,
cannot be reconciled with the Most Fa-
vored Nation principle, the basic tenet
of world trade. In certain cases we have
actively encouraged closer regional polit-
ical and economic relations. But close
relations, where the objective is not a
fuller economic and political union, need
not include discriminatory trade arrange-
ments. Where they do, we believe steps
should be taken to reduce or eliminate
their adverse trade effects. Regional ar-
rangements that are part of a broader
economic or political unity must be dis-
tinguished from preferential arrange-
ments that primarily divert trade from
other countries.
We also need a multilateral agreement
on safeguards that nations can apply for
a limited time to permit smooth adjust-
ment to rapid increases in imports. As
we pursue a more open trading world
for the benefit of all, it is self-defeating to
ignore the fact that adjustment to more
open competition may be difficult for
some. Effective procedures to ease this
process are the most realistic way to en-
sure that open trade will bring the bene-
fits we expect.
We also need better means to avoid
trade conflicts and to settle them in an
orderly way when they develop. One na-
tion's efforts to promote some segment of
its economy or to protect it against ex-
ternal competition can significantly dam-
age other countries. One way to avoid
the resulting frictions is to agree on more
effective rules for trade. Another is fre-
quent consultations so that nations con-
sider the views of their trading partners
before making decisions and assure that
problems are faced promptly and can-
didly. At a time when we are moving
from confrontation to negotiation in
other areas, we need new trading ar-
rangements and rules to solve trade prob-
lems in the same spirit.
473
