[12] Jan. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
our efforts to secure peace would not
only have violated our understanding
with North Vietnam, it would have seri-
ously harmed and possibly destroyed the
chances for peace. Therefore, I know
that you now can understand why, dur-
ing these past several weeks, I have not
made any public statements about those
efforts.
The important thing was not to talk
about peace, but to get peace-and to get
the right kind of peace. This we have
done.
Now that we have achieved an honor-
able agreement, let us be proud that
America did not settle for a peace that
would have betrayed our allies, that
would have abandoned our prisoners of
war, or that would have ended the war
for us but would have continued the war
for the 50 million people of Indochina.
Let us be proud of the 2½ million young
Americans who served in Vietnam, who
served with honor and distinction in one
of the most selfless enterprises in the his-
tory of nations. And let us be proud of
those who sacrificed, who gave their lives
so that the people of South Vietnam
might live in freedom and so that the
world might live in peace.
In particular, I would like to say a
word to some of the bravest people I have
ever met-the wives, the children, the
families of our prisoners of war and the
missing in action. When others called on
us to settle on any terms, you had the
courage to stand for the right kind of
peace so that those who died and those
who suffered would not have died and
suffered in vain, and so that where this
generation knew war, the next genera-
tion would know peace. Nothing means
more to me at this moment than the fact
that your long vigil is coming to an end.
Just yesterday, a great American, who
once occupied this office, died. In his
life, President Johnson endured the vili-
fication of those who sought to portray
him as a man of war. But there was
nothing he cared about more deeply than
achieving a lasting peace in the world.
I remember the last time I talked with
him. It was just the day after New Year's.
He spoke then of his concern with bring-
ing peace, with making it the right kind
of peace, and I was grateful that he once
again expressed his support for my efforts
to gain such a peace. No one would have
welcomed this peace more than he.
And I know he would join me in ask-
ing for those who died and for those
who live-let us consecrate this moment
by resolving together to make the peace
we have achieved a peace that will last.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:01 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. His ad-
dress was broadcast live on nationwide radio
and television. An advance text of the Presi-
dent's address was released on the same day.
Before delivering the address, the President
met separately with members of the Cabinet
and 6 members of the bipartisan leadership of
the Congress.
On January 24, 1973, the President met with
the expanded bipartisan leadership of the Con-
gress to discuss the agreement. On the same
day, the White House released the following
related material: the texts of the agreement
and protocols to the agreement; the transcript
of a news briefing on the agreement by Henry
A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs; and fact sheets on the
basic elements of the agreement, the Interna-
tional Commission of Control and Supervision,
and the Four-Party Joint Military Commission.
The texts of the agreement and protocols and
Dr. Kissinger's news briefing are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 9, pp. 45-74).
20
