Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 4 [68]
again the business world is investing in
our downtown areas.
What does all this mean for community
life in America? Simply this: The hour
of crisis has passed. The ship of state is
back on an even keel, and we can put be-
hind us the fear of capsizing.
We should be proud of our achieve-
ments, but we should never be compla-
cent. Many challenges still remain. In ap-
proaching them, we must recognize that
some of the methods which have been
tried in the past are not appropriate to the
1970's.
One serious error of the past was the
belief that the Federal Government
should take the lead in developing local
communities. America is still recovering
from years of extravagant, hastily passed
measures, designed by centralized plan-
ners and costing billions of dollars, but
producing few results.
I recently learned of a city where $30
million was paid for an urban renewal
project. But instead of getting better, the
physical condition of the target neigh-
borhood actually got worse.
In one of our huge, high-rise public
housing projects, less than one-third of
the units are now fit for human habita-
tion and less than one-fifth are
occupied.
In another city, urban renewal was sup-
posed to salvage and improve existing
housing. Thirty million dollars was spent
over 12 years, but the results were so
meager that the planners finally gave up
and called in the bulldozers. Now almost
half of the project's 200 acres lies vacant,
unsold.
Some of our programs to help people
buy or improve housing are also back-
firing. Too many of the owners fail to
meet their payments, and the taxpayer
gets stuck with the bill. He also gets stuck
with the house and the added expense of
looking out for it. As a result, over 90,000
federally subsidized housing units are now
owned by the Federal Government—your
Government-over 14,000 in one metro-
politan area alone.
Now these examples are not unusual.
This does not mean that the people in
charge of these programs were dishonest
or incompetent. What it does mean is
that they are human, and that no human
being, accountable only to an office in
Washington, can successfully plan and
manage the development of communi-
ties which are often hundreds or thousands
of miles away.
There are too many leaks in the Fed-
eral pipeline. It is time to plug them up.
That is why we are changing our entire
approach to human and community de-
velopment. We are putting an end to
wasteful and obsolete programs and re-
placing them with ones that work.
Our 1974 budget would eliminate seven
outmoded urban development programs.
It would suspend four ineffective hous-
ing programs.
We are not pulling the rug out from
under anyone who has already been
promised assistance. Under commitments
already made, we will subsidize an esti-
mated 300,000 housing starts this year
and will provide housing assistance to
more than 2 million low- and moderate-
income families.
But we are stopping programs which
have failed. We are determined to get a
dollar's worth of service out of every
dollar's worth of taxes. The high-cost, no-
result boondoggling by the Federal Gov-
ernment must end.
This means we will continue to press
for greater efficiency and better manage-
165
