[63] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly when you see some of the
gouging that goes on in individual cases.
The difficulty with rent control, how-
ever and any of you who have visited
Paris or some of the other major cities
which have had rent control almost since
World War II and see what has happened
to rents, particularly of new dwellings,
know what I am talking about-the dif-
ficulty with rent control, if you put a rent
control ceiling on that is not economically
viable so that the builders and those who
will rent apartments and so forth cannot
and will not make their investment, all
that happens is that you get a shortage of
housing, the pressures go up, and also you
find that the landlords don't keep up the
places.
No, I do not think that rent controls
is the right answer. I think the answer to
the problem of rents is production of hous-
ing which will deal with it.
THE WATERGATE CASE
[15] Q. Mr. President, now that the
Watergate case is over, the trial is over,
could you give us your view on the ver-
dict and what implications you see in
the verdict on public confidence in the
political system?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it would not be
proper for me to comment on the case
when it not only is not over, but particu-
larly when it is also on appeal.
'On January 30, 1973, G. Gordon Liddy and
James W. McCord, Jr., were convicted in the
United States District Court for the District of
Columbia on charges of burglary, wiretapping,
and conspiracy in connection with the illegal
entry into the Democratic National Committee
headquarters on June 17, 1972. Earlier in Jan-
uary, five other defendants had pleaded guilty
to charges connected with the break-in before
Chief Judge John J. Sirica of the court.
I will simply say with regard to the
Watergate case what I have said pre-
viously, that the investigation conducted
by Mr. Dean, the White House Counsel, in
which, incidentally, he had access to the
FBI records on this particular matter be-
cause I directed him to conduct this inves-
tigation, indicates that no one on the
White House Staff, at the time he con-
ducted the investigation-that was last
July and August-was involved or had
knowledge of the Watergate matter. And,
as far as the balance of the case is con-
cerned, it is now under investigation by
a Congressional committee and that com-
mittee should go forward, conduct its in-
vestigation in an even-handed way, going
into charges made against both candi-
dates, both political parties. And if it does,
as Senator Ervin has indicated it will, we
will, of course, cooperate with the com-
mittee just as we cooperated with the
grand jury.
CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS AND
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
[16] Q. Mr. President, yesterday at
the Gray hearings, Senator Tunney sug-
gested he might ask the committee to ask
for John Dean to appear before that hear-
ing to talk about the Watergate case and
the FBI-White House relationship. Would
you object to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course.
Q. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, because it is ex-
ecutive privilege. I mean you can't—I, of
course-no President could ever agree to
allow the Counsel to the President to go
down and testify before a committee.
On the other hand, as far as any com-
mittee of the Congress is concerned, where
information is requested that a member of
160
