Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [63]
will be served by providing the aid.
The costs of peace are great, but the
costs of war are much greater. And, inci-
dentally, with regard to costs, I know that
some of you have raised a question that I
would like to address myself to as to
whether whatever assistance we eventually
do agree to and that we do present to the
Congress, whether or not that assistance
will require a cutting back on domestic
programs.
The answer is no. As far as any assist-
ance program is concerned, it will be cov-
ered by the existing levels for the budget
which we have in for national security
purposes. It will not come out of the
domestic side of the budget.
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. By national security, I
mean the whole area of defense and for-
eign assistance.
Q. Is this the area that the money for
North Vietnam will come out of, the de-
fense budget?
THE PRESIDENT. It will come out of
the national security budget, which means
the area of foreign assistance and de-
fense-both. As you know, the two are
interlocked because the Defense Depart-
ment has some foreign aid programs, and
there are some outside the Defense De-
partment. But the whole national security
area will absorb all of the assistance pro-
grams which we may agree to in terms
of that.
Q. Can you say how much it will be?
THE PRESIDENT. No, that is something
to be negotiated.
BLACK AMERICANS
[4.] Mr. Alexander [Holmes Alexan-
der, McNaught Syndicate] was on his feet
a moment ago and then I will go to the
rest of you.
Q. Mr. President, I apologize for this
question before I ask it.
THE PRESIDENT. Nobody else does.
[Laughter]
Q. The only reason I do so is because I
think you should have a chance to answer
it. But I was in Richmond shortly after
your reelection, at a public meeting, and
a State senator, who was a Negro, got up
and asked me, when is Mr. Nixon going
to stop kicking the blacks around? And I
thought you might like to respond to that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I could not stop
unless I started it, and I have not, I be-
lieve.
I think it is very important, Mr. Alex-
ander, that the people who happen to be
black Americans in this country under-
stand that the President of this Nation is
one who, first, would not, of course, ever
say that he would ever admit, and I trust
there would be nothing in the record to
indicate that he had kicked any group in
the population around and particularly
one that deserved far better than that be-
cause of what they have been exposed to
through the years.
The second point I would make is that
there has been some speculation I know in
some of the press and particularly in the
black press to the effect that because I did
not get a substantial number of black
votes, although greater than in 1968, that,
therefore, now we don't owe anything to
them.
Let me say that is not the issue at all.
The issue is doing what is right. This Na-
tion owes something to all of its people,
and it owes something particularly to those
who have been disadvantaged.
We, I believe, have done a very effec-
153
