Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 10 [231]
230 Memorandum About the Combined Federal Campaign.
August 8, 1973
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies:
I am pleased to announce that the
Honorable Caspar W. Weinberger, Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
has agreed to serve as chairman of the
Combined Federal Campaign for the Na-
tional Capital Area this fall.
This campaign, which begins in Sep-
tember, will combine into a single drive
the solicitation efforts of the United Giv-
ers Fund, the National Health Agencies
and the International Service Agencies.
In this one drive we will be seeking to do
our share to meet the needs of more than
150 local, national, and international
health, welfare, and
welfare, and social service
agencies.
These organizations deserve our whole-
hearted support. Working together
through the Combined Federal Campaign
we can provide that support and help our
neighbors and friends who have special
needs. For those in need, the voluntary
agencies are a beacon of hope, and often-
times the only source which can provide
the needed assistance.
Through the Combined Federal Cam-
paign, Federal personnel are offered a
unique opportunity to help persons in our
community, in our Nation, and in over-
seas lands by one gift once a year, a pledge
made particularly easy by the availability
of voluntary payroll deductions.
I request that you serve personally as
Chairman of the combined campaign in
your organization and appoint one of your
top assistants as your vice chairman. Please
advise Secretary Weinberger of the per-
son you designate as vice chairman.
I know that we will have your full
support in this endeavor, and I hope you
will commend the campaign with its pay-
roll deduction feature to Federal employ-
ees and military personnel in your
organization.
RICHARD NIXON
231 Statement on Signing the Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act of 1973. August 10, 1973
TODAY I am approving the Agriculture
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973,
which sets our national farm policy for
the next 4 years.
This law represents a realistic compro-
mise between the Congress and the Ad-
ministration on a number of important
economic issues. Though it falls short of
the high standards I have set for reform-
ing farm legislation and eventually mov-
ing the Government out of agriculture, it
does provide a constructive framework
for encouraging the expansion of farm
production.
As consumers, Americans are the most
fortunate people in the world. Our
farmers and ranchers have traditionally
provided us with a plentiful supply of the
best food and fiber in the history of man-
kind. Their importance to our economy-
and their right to share fully in the fruits
of that economy-cannot be denied.
In the current period of unprecedented
demand for farm commodities, it is essen-
31-870 - 75 - 47
687
