Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 2 [102]
sir, I broke down and blubbered and cried like
a baby. Then I reached for my rosary and said
a few decades of the beads, and I uttered a short
fervent prayer, not an original prayer, but one
102
spoken in millions of American homes today.
It is a simple prayer, simply, 'God bless Richard
Nixon." "
Thank you.
Remarks of Welcome to President Nguyen Van Thieu
of the Republic of Vietnam at San Clemente,
California. April 2, 1973
Mr. President, all of our distinguished
guests, and ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, this is the fifth time that
I have had the honor and pleasure of
meeting with you, but for the first time I
am honored to welcome you in my native
land, in my native State, and here at my
home.
As we welcome you today, we think
back to the times we have met before.
Particularly I think of the time that we
first met as heads of state at Midway, 4
years ago. On that occasion, you said after
our meeting that you looked forward to
the time when we could meet not for the
purpose of discussing the conduct of war,
but for the purpose of discussing the build-
ing of peace, and now, today, that day has
come.
There are, of course, difficulties in
building a peace after 25 years of war have
torn your country apart. But on the other
hand, when we compare the situation to-
day to what it was 4 years ago at Midway
when we met, we see the progress that has
been made toward that goal. On that day,
when there were over half a million Amer-
icans fighting side by side with your peo-
ple, we now find that all the American
forces have returned, and the people of
Vietnam have the strength to defend their
own independence and their right to
choose their government in the years
ahead.
We know that this would not have been
possible without the courage and also the
leadership that you have displayed in pro-
viding an example for the people of your
country, and the courage that they have
exemplified, and the sacrifices they have
made.
Now, as we meet today for 2 days of
meetings, we meet to work toward the
building of peace, a peace
peace, a peace for your land
which has suffered so much and your peo-
ple who have suffered so much, and a
peace, as it is built there, which can con-
tribute to lasting peace in the world.
I would say simply, as we conclude,
that the name of our house here is Casa
Pacifica, which means House of the
Pacific, and also House of Peace, and we
hope from this day, as a result of our talks,
will come great steps forward in building
the lasting peace, the real peace that we
have fought together for and that now
we want all of our people to live for.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. at
his home in San Clemente, Calif., where Presi-
dent Thieu was given a formal welcome with
full military honors.
See also Items 105 and 106.
President Thieu responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and gentle-
men:
Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this
warm welcome and for your very kind words.
Mrs. Thieu and I are very happy to come here
today to this beautiful land of freedom and
247
