Richard Nixon, 1973
[52]
Feb. 21
cooperate, we have the will and we have
the means to crack down on them.
We would like Phase III to be as vol-
untary as possible, but we will make it as
mandatory as necessary. Our new system
of controls has broad support from busi-
ness and labor, the keystone for any suc-
cessful program. It will prepare us for the
day when we no longer need controls. It
will allow us to concentrate on those areas
where inflation has been most trouble-
some-construction, health care, and
especially food prices.
Let me focus for a moment on food
prices. They have risen sharply at the
wholesale level in recent months, so that
figures for retail prices in January and
February, when they are published, will
inevitably show sharp increases. In fact,
we will probably see increases in food
prices for some months to come.
The underlying cause of this problem is
that food supplies have not risen fast
enough to keep up with the rapidly rising
demand. But we must not accept rising
food prices as a permanent feature of
American life. We must halt this inflation-
ary spiral by attacking the causes of rising
food prices on all fronts.
Our first priority must be to increase
supplies of food to meet the increased de-
mand. Your Government is already mov-
ing vigorously to expand our food supplies.
We are encouraging farmers to put more
acreage into production of both crops and
livestock. We are allowing more meat and
dried milk to come in from abroad. We
have ended subsidies for agricultural ex-
ports, and we are reducing the Govern-
ment's agricultural stockpiles. We are en-
couraging farmers to sell the stock they
own.
Now, measures such as these will stop
the rise of wholesale food prices and will
slow the rise of retail food prices. Unfor-
tunately, they cannot do much about
prices in the next few months, but they
will have a powerful effect in the second
half of the year. They will bring relief to
the American housewife without damag-
ing the prosperity of our farmers.
Farm income today is higher than ever,
and it will go even higher as we increase
farm production.
For all these reasons, we have a good
chance to reduce the overall inflation
rate to 22 percent or less by the end of
1973. That means your dollars will go
further at your local shop or supermarket.
The third important economic question
concerns how much money you control
for yourself and how much you pay out
in taxes. Here the picture is also
promising.
Since 1950, the share of the average
family's income taken for taxes in the
United States has nearly doubled, to more
than 20 percent. The average person
worked less than 1 hour out of each 8-
hour day to pay his taxes in 1950. Today
he works nearly 2 hours each day for the
tax collector. No wonder someone once
described the taxpayer as a person who
doesn't have to take a civil service ex-
amination to work for the Federal
Government.
In fact, if tax cuts had not been adopted
during our first term, the average worker's
pay increase last year would have been
wiped out entirely by increased taxes. The
only way to stop tax increases is to stop
spending more than our present tax rates
produce in revenue. That is why we are
cutting back on Federal programs that
waste the taxpayers' money-for example,
on housing programs that benefit the well-
to-do but shortchange the poor, health
programs that build more hospitals when
115
