[68] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the transcript of a news briefing on their meet-
ing with the President to discuss Federal-city
relations by Mayor Roman S. Gribbs of Detroit,
Mich., president, and Allen E. Pritchard, Jr.,
executive vice president, National League of
Cities; and John J. Gunther, executive director,
U.S. Conference of Mayors.
69 Statement on the Death of Pearl S. Buck.
March 6, 1973
IN LIFE Pearl Buck was a human bridge
between the civilization of the East and
West. With simple eloquence she trans-
lated her personal love for the people and
culture of China into a rich literary herit
age, treasured by Asians and Westerners
alike.
She lived a long, full life as artist, wife,
mother, and philanthropist. Through her
eyes, millions of readers were able to see
the beauty of China and its people at a
time when direct personal contact was im-
possible. It is fitting that Pearl Buck lived
to see two peoples she loved so much draw
closer together during her last years. Mrs.
Nixon and I join all Americans in extend-
ing our sympathy to her family, and in
mourning the passing of a great artist and
a sensitive, compassionate human being.
NOTE: Mrs. Buck, 80, died in Danby, Vt. Win-
ner of the Nobel and Pulitzer prizes in litera-
ture, she established the Welcome Home, which
later became the Pearl S. Buck Foundation, to
aid in the care and adoption of Amerasian
children.
70 Remarks During a Meeting With District of Columbia
Police Chief Jerry V. Wilson. March 6, 1973
I AM meeting with the Chief, incident-
ally, ladies and gentlemen, for two pur-
poses. He has already given us his written
report, and he is updating greatly on what
he is doing in the law enforcement field,
because we want to pass some of his ex-
perience on to other cities in the country
who are interested in techniques which
have worked here.
I am also meeting with him for the pur-
pose of trying to prevail upon him to con-
tinue in this very arduous and important
task where he is probably the most over-
worked, underpaid law enforcement offi-
cial in the country, considering the im-
portance of his job. I am not going to ask
him to give his answer publicly here, but
after I work him over, I hope he says yes.
[Laughter]
CHIEF WILSON. Don't you work me
over. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have a rubber
hose. [Laughter] You don't have one
either, do you?
CHIEF WILSON. Everyone gets these
middle-age blahs, you know. Most people
have to go to a psychiatrist, and I get to
go to the President. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:18 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Chief Wil-
son on his meeting with the President and his
decision to continue as Chief of the Metro-
politan Police Department.
168
