[154] May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
throwing about of misleading or malicious
charges, of sabotage and espionage and
other infringements on the rights of
privacy, and of the whole range of im-
proper campaign practices.
Beyond measures to curb these clearly
evident abuses, the Commission will be
authorized to examine such matters as the
length and structure of our political cam-
paigns, the purposes for which campaign
funds are spent, the use and abuse of
techniques such as television commercials,
polling and computerized direct mail-
and whatever else it may consider appro-
priate to a thorough-going campaign
reform.
There is another matter of crucial im-
portance to our election process, which I
am also asking that the Commission con-
sider. That is whether the Constitution
should be amended to change the length
of the terms of office of Members of the
House, of the Senate, or of the President.
Many political scientists have sug-
gested, for example, that the President
should be elected for a single, nonrenew-
able 6-year term, instead of being eligible
for two 4-year terms. The Commission
could well consider the merits of this
proposal.
Another change it might consider is
whether Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives should be elected for terms
of 4 years instead of 2.
Personally, I have long favored the 4-
year term for Members of the House, with
half of the Members elected every 2 years.
Members serving for 2-year terms have to
spend of every 2 years running for re-
election, with the result that they serve
1 year and run for 1 year. This not only
places an enormous burden on the Mem-
ber himself, it also can work to the dis-
advantage of his constituents and of the
country. By reducing the extraordinary
campaign burden on its Members, I be-
lieve the House of Representatives could
be made a more effective instrument of
government.
The Commission will be directed to
come up with a comprehensive set of legis-
lative recommendations. It will also be
directed to examine whether additional
measures, such as voluntary agreements
between candidates or party organiza-
tions, may be desirable to extend into
those areas where legislation cannot
appropriately reach.
Because time is of the essence, the
resolution I have proposed would direct
the Commission to file a public report no
later than December of this year. I
believe that with hard work, the members
of the Commission can complete their
study even before then.
The Commission will have complete,
independent authority to choose its own
priorities among the matters to be con-
sidered, and as it proceeds, it will be
encouraged to make interim recom-
mendations for actions by the Congress
without waiting for its final report in
December.
One option I considered was for the
Administration itself to prepare a set of
proposed reforms and present them at
this time. I rejected that course for two
reasons:
First, a really comprehensive campaign
reform, which I believe we need, must
thread its way through enormous com-
plexities, high sensitivities, entrenched in-
terests, and a careful assessment of the
possibilities of enactment by the Congress.
This will take time. It can be done, but it
cannot be done overnight.
Second, I feel it is essential that pro-
posals for reform come not from one polit-
534
