[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
welcome the Community's declared intent
to maintain a constructive, forthcoming
dialogue with us... I wish to reaffirm
our commitment to work with the mem-
bers of the European Community for re-
form of the international economic system
in a way which will bring about a new
freedom of world trade, new equity in
international economic conduct and effec-
tive solutions to the problems of the devel-
oping world.
"These are the objectives with which
the United States will approach forth-
coming negotiations on monetary and
trade reform. We will be prepared to take
bold action with our European partners
for a more equitable and open world eco-
nomic order."
The stage is now set for comprehensive
negotiations with our European partners.
In effect, these negotiations began in my
meetings with Prime Minister Heath,
NATO Secretary General Luns, Premier
Andreotti, and Chancellor Brandt. They
will continue when I meet with President
Pompidou and when I visit Europe later
this year.
The issues we face are not abstract.
European unity is not at issue. Nor are the
requirements for common internal and
external policies which reinforce that
unity. Our aim is to examine concrete
problems that impinge on the specific in-
terests of the United States and to agree
on a comprehensive way to resolve these
issues.
Major negotiations will begin next fall
on international trade. Our basic objec-
tives are to restore the integrity of a more
open trading system that was the under-
lying principle of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and to
halt the drift toward economic protection-
ism on both sides of the Atlantic. We be-
lieve there should be a gradual reduction
in tariffs and other barriers to trade in
both industrial and agricultural products.
We believe also that the adverse effects of
preferential trading arrangements be-
tween Europe and less developed countries
should be eliminated. Such arrangements
should not work against the ability of the
United States or others to compete in
European markets or those of the coun-
tries with which it has special trade
arrangements.
These, and many broader problems dis-
cussed in the chapter on international eco-
nomic policy in this Report, require major
reforms. The negotiations will be pro-
tracted and difficult. If, however, we can
confront our economic differences in the
same spirit of partnership developed in
defense, we can reinforce Atlantic unity.
ALLIANCE DEFENSE
In April 1969 the North Atlantic Al-
liance completed its twentieth year. For
two decades the nations of the Atlantic
community had been united in a formid-
able coalition. No military alliance in
modern times has so successfully main-
tained the peace. Unity had come natu-
rally in military affairs because the threats
to Europe were unambiguous, the require-
ments to meet them were generally agreed
upon, and the basic strategy of nuclear
retaliation was credible and effective.
By the mid-1960's, however, it was in-
creasingly clear that military conditions
had changed and that earlier strategic as-
sumptions were no longer realistic. At the
meeting of NATO foreign ministers in
April 1969, I stressed the need to reex-
amine the Alliance's military position in
406
