Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
retards development, accentuates malnu-
trition and unemployment, and crowds
cities with slums. These effects are felt
particularly in developing countries. For
developed and developing nations alike,
population pressure constitutes one of the
principal threats to the environment. Too
many people scrambling for cultivable
land and resources are a danger to inter-
national peace, and this danger may
sharply increase as populations double and
treble in coming decades.
Efforts to moderate population growth
are having important, if limited, success
around the world. Many countries have
already undertaken measures to bring
rapid increase under control; others have
national programs to provide family plan-
ning services to their people. The United
States now provides bilateral assistance
for such activities in 36 countries. We also
contribute to the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities, which supports pro-
grams in 76 countries, and to the Inter-
national Planned Parenthood Federation,
with programs in over 40 countries.
At the Second Asian Population Con-
ference in Tokyo last November, the
United States joined 22 other countries
in calling on governments to establish
goals and programs for effectively con-
trolling population growth, and to provide
family planning information, education,
and services to all their citizens as soon
as possible.
In order to focus international atten-
tion on the vital problem of world popu-
lation growth, the United Nations has
designated next year as World Population
Year. A World Population Conference
has been called for August 1974. I believe
information and action programs under-
taken as part of the observance can be a
valuable means of furthering apprecia-
tion of population problems and of gener-
ating more resolute action by nations to
solve them. The United States will co-
operate fully with the United Nations in
observing the year and working to make
the World Population Conference a
success.
It is imperative that the nations of the
world reach agreement on means for deal-
ing effectively with this global problem.
ENERGY
Satisfying the world's energy require-
ments over the next several decades is a
matter of urgent concern to the United
States and other nations. Important fac-
tors include a rapidly increasing demand
for energy, the need to choose among
alternative new sources, the costs of de-
veloping these sources, and the strong
emphasis on environmental protection
which limits the use of many energy forms.
One major problem that will face us
during the next two decades will be en-
suring an adequate supply of energy from
secure sources at reasonable prices. This
task will require broad cooperation be-
tween consumer and producer nations.
It will have a major impact on interna-
tional trade and finance.
This Administration has recognized the
need for adjustment in our policies to
meet the demands of the changing energy
scene. Domestically, we plan to accelerate
the development of our own oil and gas
resources, including those on the Outer
Continental Shelf and in Alaska, in a
manner consistent with national interest
and conservation. We have worked, as
appropriate, with U.S. private enterprise
in its efforts to develop new foreign sources
of oil and natural gas, including Soviet
and Algerian sources. We have been kept
513
