Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 9 [252]
too long and which is vital for making the
enormous oil reserves of Alaska available
to all of the American people.
I call upon all of you to join me in
urging decisive action by the Congress on
energy legislation, so that we will have
enough heat for our homes, enough fuel
for our transportation, enough energy to
run the factories that produce our goods
and provide our jobs.
Making our towns and cities more
livable affects each of us individually and
all of us as a nation-and so does the
plain fact that the time has passed for the
old, paternalistic, Washington-knows-best
ways of doing things. We need new and
better ways of meeting our social needs,
ways that place the power and resources
where the problems are, that enlist the
energies of the people and the commu-
nities themselves, and that recognize that
not all wisdom is in Washington.
This Administration has submitted to
the Congress a landmark Better Com-
munities Act, which would greatly en-
hance the ability of all of our communities
to make effective use of Federal assistance
and to shape their own future. Within the
next 10 days, I shall send to the Congress
new housing policy recommendations,
based on an intensive 6-months study of
the strengths and failures of the old legis-
lation and of the changing pattern of the
Nation's needs. Vital transportation legis-
lation also awaits action-including a
measure to keep the bankrupt railroads
serving the Northeast and Midwest in
operation without saddling an undue
share of the burden on the taxpayer.
America's greatest resource is its people
themselves-you, your family, your neigh-
bors. In the area of human resources,
among the measures awaiting action is a
better schools act which would help con-
centrate Federal education dollars where
the needs are greatest, for example, on
education for the disadvantaged, for the
handicapped, and on vocational educa-
tion-education to prepare people for
jobs. Most important, what we need is a
measure which would have the decisions
affecting your child's education made by
your State, by your local school board,
rather than by social planners in Wash-
ington, D.C.
Also pending are important proposals
in the areas of pension reform, job train-
ing, health, and others that can go far
toward expanding opportunity for mil-
lions of Americans, and thus make this a
better nation for all of us.
After nearly 20 years of continuous and
sometimes shockingly dramatic increases
in the rate of crime, the figures for 1972-
released just last month-show that we
have finally turned the tide in our battle
for a safer America. For the first time in
17 years, serious crime in 1972 was down
from the year before.
Much of the credit goes to the new
crime legislation that has been enacted
during the past 4 years. Much of the credit
goes to local law enforcement officials,
and much of the credit goes to a changed
public attitude toward crime and crimi-
nals-away from the era of permissiveness
and toward a renewed respect for law,
order, and justice.
We must now step up our efforts to
ensure that this will be a decisive turning
point and that we can continue to make
our communities safer once again for law-
abiding citizens. Three of the legislative
measures on which I urge swift action are
designed to do just that: a heroin traf-
ficking bill to tighten enforcement against
heroin pushers, a bill to restore the death
penalty for certain of the most serious
759
