Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 15 [296]
treated. These courageous acts by Private Kays
resulted in the saving of numerous lives and
inspired others in his Company to repel the
enemy. Private Kays' conspicuous gallantry and
heroism at the risk of his life are in keeping
with the highest traditions of the service and
reflect great credit on him, his unit, and the
United States Army.
RICHARD NIXON
by support craft. By his extraordinary courage
and perseverance, Petty Officer Thornton was
directly responsible for saving the life of his
superior officer and enabling the safe extraction
of all patrol members, thereby upholding the
highest traditions of the United States Naval
Service.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States in the
name of The Congress takes pleasure in pre-
senting the MEDAL OF HONOR to
MICHAEL E. THORNTON
ENGINEMAN SECOND CLASS
UNITED STATES NAVY
for service as set forth in the following
CITATION:
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at
the risk of his life above and beyond the call of
duty while participating in a daring operation
against enemy forces in the Republic of Viet-
nam on October 31, 1972. Petty Officer Thorn-
ton, as assistant U.S. Navy advisor, along with
a U.S. Navy lieutenant serving as senior ad-
visor, accompanied a three-man Vietnamese
Navy SEAL patrol on an intelligence gathering
and prisoner capture operation against an en-
emy-occupied naval river base. Launched from
a Vietnamese Navy junk in a rubber boat, the
patrol reached land and was continuing on foot
toward its objective when it suddenly came
under heavy fire from a numerically superior
force. The patrol called in naval gunfire sup-
port and then engaged the enemy in a fierce
firefight, accounting for many enemy casual-
ties before moving back to the waterline to
prevent encirclement. Upon learning that the
senior advisor had been hit by enemy fire and
was believed to be dead, Petty Officer Thornton
returned through a hail of fire to the lieu-
tenant's last position, quickly disposed of two
enemy soldiers about to overrun the position,
and succeeded in removing the seriously
wounded and unconscious senior naval ad-
visor to the water's edge. He then inflated the
lieutenant's lifejacket and towed him seaward
for approximately two hours until picked up
The President of the United States in the
name of The Congress takes pleasure in pre-
senting the MEDAL OF HONOR to
GUNNERY SERGEANT ALLAN J. KELLOGG, JR.
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
for service as set forth in the following
CITATION:
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at
the risk of his life above and beyond the call of
duty while serving as a Platoon Sergeant with
Company G, Second Battalion, Fifth Marines,
First Marine Division, in connection with
combat operations against the enemy in the
Republic of Vietnam on the night of March 11,
1970. Under the leadership of Gunnery Ser-
geant (then Staff Sergeant) Kellogg, a small
unit from Company G was evacuating a fallen
comrade when the unit came under a heavy
volume of small arms and automatic weapons
fire from a numerically superior enemy force
occupying well-concealed emplacements in the
surrounding jungle. During the ensuing fierce
engagement, an enemy soldier managed to ma-
neuver through the dense foliage to a position
near the Marines, and hurled a hand grenade
into their midst which glanced off the chest
of Gunnery Sergeant Kellogg. Quick to act, he
forced the grenade into the mud in which he
was standing, threw himself over the lethal
weapon, and absorbed the full effects of its
detonation with his body, thereby preventing
serious injury or possible death to several of his
fellow Marines. Although suffering multiple in-
juries to his chest and his right shoulder and
arm, Gunnery Sergeant Kellogg resolutely con-
tinued to direct the efforts of his men until all
were able to maneuver to the relative safety
of the company perimeter. By his heroic and
decisive action in risking his own life to save
875
