[80] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
CONTROLS ON FOOD PRICES
[9] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Presi-
dent
THE PRESIDENT [to Clark R. Mollen-
hoff, Des Moines Register and Tribune]. I
thought that was your voice.
MR. MOLLENHOFF. I think you recog-
nized the voice. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You had three ques-
tions last time. I have got to give the St.
Louis Post-Dispatch one. You [James
Deakin] are still with the Post-Dispatch?
MR. DEAKIN. Yes, the last time I
looked.
There is a published report that the Ad-
ministration, despite what has been pub-
licly said, is considering at least the
possibility of controls on meat prices, pos-
sibly on other raw agricultural products.
We have housewives' strikes now against
these tremendous increases in food prices.
When are you going to be in a position to
offer the American consumer some kind
of assurance that this is going to be
stopped, this price spiral in food?
THE PRESIDENT. The difficulty with
offering rigid price controls on meat prices
and food prices is that it would not stop-
in the opinion of those whose judgment
I value would not stop the rise in prices.
It might stop them momentarily, but as
a result of discouraging increased produc-
tion, we would reap the consequences of
greater upward pressure on prices later.
You can be very sure that if I thought
that price controls on farm products and
on food prices would work, I would im-
pose them instantly.
The point is that every bit of evidence
that has been presented shows that it
would discourage supply, it would lead to
black markets, and we would eventually
have to come to rigid price controls, wage
controls, and rationing. And I don't think
the American people want that. I think
there is a better way.
The better way is, one, to open our im-
ports to the greatest extent that we pos-
sibly can. For example, we have already
taken some action in that on dairy prod-
ucts. We have already taken some action
on beef products. I found, at a meeting
with the Cost of Living Council, that we
still have a 3 percent tariff on imported
beef. I have asked the Department of
Agriculture to give me a legal opinion as
to whether the President can remove that
tariff. If I can, I will act. If I can't, I am
going to ask the Congress to do it, because
there shouldn't be any tariff on an item
that is in short supply in the United
States. That is on the import side.
On the supply side, we are, of course,
reducing our stockpiles, whatever stock-
piles are left, and there are some in which
we are able to act, provided we can get the
transportation. That is the reason the
Secretary of Transportation sat in the
meeting with the Cost of Living Coun-
cil, because we need flatcars and a number
of other items in order to get it moved.
Finally, there is the production side.
And on the production side, as you know,
our new farm policy is designed to in-
crease production. We are continuing to
examine the situation. If any further ac-
tion can be taken that will work, we will
do it. But I can assure you that I con-
sider it the highest priority to get the pres-
sure on prices down.
Let me say one word about the house-
wives. I had a letter from one the other
day saying, "Should I boycott?" I am not
going to suggest to American housewives
or to any group of Americans to join in
210
