Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
this kind of dispute enjoys any real bene-
fit. Indeed, both suffer because of the
resulting exacerbation of political, eco-
nomic, and security relations.
The real point is not fishing rights or
retaliation. Rather it is: what rules shall
govern the use of the oceans? If countries
make unilateral claims over ocean space
without international agreement, conflict
over uses of the area and its resources are
inevitable. We believe that the Law of the
Sea Conference provides the appropriate
forum for resolving outstanding law of the
sea problems. We intend to work with the
Latin Americans and all other nations to-
ward achieving a timely and successful
conference.
Another important unresolved problem
concerns the Panama Canal and the sur-
rounding Zone. U.S. operation of the
Canal and our presence in Panama are
governed by the terms of a treaty drafted
in 1903. The world has changed radically
during the 70 years this treaty has been in
effect. Latin America has changed.
Panama has changed. And the terms of
our relationship should reflect those
changes in a reasonable way.
For the past nine years, efforts to work
out a new treaty acceptable to both parties
have failed. That failure has put con-
siderable strain on our realtions with
Panama. It is time for both parties to take
a fresh look at this problem and to develop
a new relationship between us one that
will guarantee continued effective opera-
tion of the Canal while meeting Panama's
legitimate aspirations.
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
I intend to underscore our deep interest
in Latin America through expanded per-
sonal involvement. Last year, I em-
phasized my concern by sending two
personal representatives, former Secretary
of the Treasury Connally and Federal
Reserve Chairman Burns, to a number of
countries in Latin America. The detailed
and perceptive reports I received from
these special envoys helped to keep me
abreast of current problems and develop-
ments. This year, I will be consulting with
my fellow presidents in the hemisphere
and with other knowledgeable Latin
Americans on our future course. I have
asked Secretary of State Rogers to visit
Latin America to convey our intention to
continue to work closely with our neigh-
bors. And I plan to make at least one visit
to Latin America this year.
At the same time, I hope Members of
the Congress will travel to the area and
see what is happening in this part of the
world. Such visits could produce new in-
sights into the complex problems we and
our neighbors confront. They would pro-
vide an awareness of what able and dedi-
cated Americans are doing in those coun-
tries. And it would create a base of knowl-
edge from which understanding legislative
action might come.
I urge the Congress to take a new and
thorough look at existing legislation that
affects our relations with Latin America.
We need to study, for example, whether
various legislative restrictions serve the
purposes for which they were designed.
Do they deter other governments from
various actions, such as seizing fishing
boats? Or do they merely make the solu-
tion of such problems more difficult? I
believe some current restrictions are en-
tirely too rigid and deprive us of the
flexibility we need to work out mutually
beneficial solutions.
Similarly, we should inquire whether
current limitations on military equipment
443
