[173] June 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Millican, I ap-
preciate that reference, but I never made
the baseball team when I was in school.
On this particular occasion, I also want
to pay my respects to this county, which
is Orange County, Florida. I live in
Orange County, California. Both have
been very good to me during the years
that I have been in political life.
I also want to pay my respects to one of
the brightest, rising stars in the American
political scene, Congressman Lou Frey. I
trust that many in this graduating class
will be entering public life. I hope you
don't run against him. I can only say,
though, that whether Democrat or Re-
publican, he is the kind of progressive,
strong leader that we like in the Congress
of the United States.
On this occasion, too, I would like to
go directly to a point that will be of inter-
est to the graduating class, because this is
your first commencement, and I have ad-
dressed many, and I would like to refer
to what commencement addresses are
usually like.
They go to one extreme or the other,
and I have heard both. Either a com-
mencement address is filled with very pro-
found pronouncements about how pessi-
mistic the future is going to be for the
graduating class or it is filled with eu-
phoric comments with regard to how great
the opportunities are for the class. And
in both cases, of course, they tilt too far
in one direction or the other.
I am going to try to avoid both ex-
tremes, to be quite candid with you today
about your opportunities and also the
problems. But in view of the fact that
there is somewhat of a tendency to have
our television sets inundated with what is
wrong with America, which, of course, is
their responsibility where they feel that,
I think perhaps it would be well to start
with this proposition: about what is per-
haps right about this country, and I would
say we have grave problems at home and
abroad, and we are capable of solving
them.
But I want you to know that I have
visited most of the countries of the world.
I have seen most of the systems of govern-
ment of the world, and I have lived
through four wars that America has been
engaged in in this century.
I can say very honestly to every mem-
ber of this graduating class: If I were to
pick a time in the whole history of the
world in which to live, if I were to pick
a country in which I would like to live
in all this world, there is no country I
would rather live in and there is no time
I would rather be graduating from col-
lege than 1973, the United States of
America.
I understand that this class has some-
thing very much in common with both
Mrs. Nixon and me: Most of you helped
to work your way through college and
the university. Also, I understand that
about a third of the members of this class
have something in common with many
of us: You are veterans, have served in
the armed services.
So, I begin with why this is a good time
to be alive, and why it is a good time to
be alive in America, by pointing out how
this class, the class of '73, has some enor-
mous advantages that your predecessors
have not had for many years.
First, we can be thankful this is the first
graduating class in 12 years that will
graduate from college or a university in a
year in which the United States is not
engaged in war in Vietnam.
Second, this is the first graduating class
in 32 years where the young men of this
578
