Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 1 [24]
agent. His sentence of 30 years has been,
I think, commuted to 5 years, and we have
also discussed that with Premier Chou
En-lai. I would have to be quite candid:
We have no assurance that any change of
action, other than the commutation of the
sentence, will take place, but we have, of
course, informed the People's Republic
through our private channels that we feel
that would be a very salutary action on
his part.
But that is a matter where they must
act on their own initiative, and it is not
one where any public pressures or bellicose
statements from here will be helpful in
getting his release.ยน
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's twenty-ninth news
conference was held at 11:25 a.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House on Wednes-
day, January 31, 1973.
* On March 9, 1973, the White House re-
leased an announcement by Press Secretary
Ronald L. Ziegler of plans for the release of
John Downey on March 12, and Lt. Comdr.
Robert J. Flynn, USN, and Maj. Philip E.
Smith, USAF, on March 15. The announce-
ment is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 245).
24 Remarks at the National Prayer Breakfast.
February 1, 1973
Mr. Speaker, Chairman Quie, Dr. Burns
and all of our very distinguished guests
from all over the world and our very dis-
tinguished guests from the United States
of America:
I first have a bit of what I think is good
news and encouraging news. A message
was handed to me just as the breakfast
was beginning from Senator Stennis' phy-
sician, General Moncrief. He reports that
the Senator says he feels well this morning,
and this morning, when the doctor said
he was going to the Prayer Breakfast,
Senator Stennis, who because he has some
tubes in his mouth could not talk, but he
wrote on his pad, "I wish I were going,
too."
If Senator Stennis is listening, as I am
sure he is on radio, or maybe he will hear
it on television tonight, he is here today,
he is with us, and we are with him and he
is going to be back. That is what we all
know, and that is what we pray for.
As I heard the other speakers, I thought
of that first prayer breakfast, the National
Prayer Breakfast, which was held, as I
recall, in the Mayflower Hotel in 1953.
President Eisenhower addressed it on that
occasion. I think Billy Graham did. And
it was a memorable occasion.
I think back to the 4 years that I have
had the privilege to be here as a guest and
also of the years before even 1953, when I
met with, first, the House Prayer Break-
fast group and, then, the Senate Prayer
Breakfast group.
I think, too, of what has happened over
these 4 years, and I think all of us per-
haps will remember what a year we have
just completed. Since we last met here,
just one year ago, we have made the trip
to the People's Republic of China, which
opened communication with one-fourth
of the people who live on this globe, where
there had previously been virtually no
communication whatever as far as we
were concerned.
We made the trip to the Soviet Union,
to Moscow, and with the Ambassador
from the Soviet Union here, and the
31-870 O- 75-8
63
