Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 15 [80]
to have the Counsel to the President of the
United States testify in a formal session
for the Congress. However, Mr. Dean will
furnish information when any of it is re-
quested, provided it is pertinent to the
investigation.
Q. Mr. President, would you then be
willing to have Mr. Dean sit down in-
formally and let some of the Senators
question him, as they have with Dr.
Kissinger?
THE PRESIDENT. No, that is quite a
different thing. In fact, Dr. Kissinger,
Mr. Ehrlichman, as you know, not only
informally meet with Members of the
Congress on matters of substance, the same
is true with members of the press. As you
know, Dr. Kissinger meets with you ladies
and gentlemen of the press and answers
questions on matters of substance.
In this case, where we have the rela-
tionship that we have with Mr. Dean and
the President of the United States-his
Counsel that would not be a proper
way to handle it. He will, however-the
important thing is, he will furnish all
pertinent information. He will be com-
pletely forthcoming—something that
other administrations have totally re-
fused to do until we got here. And I am
very proud of the fact that we are forth-
coming, and I would respectfully suggest
that Members of the Congress might look
at that record as they decide to test it.
CEASE-FIRE VIOLATIONS IN VIETNAM
[3] Q. Mr. President, can you say,
sir, how concerned you are about the re-
ports of cease-fire violations in Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am concerned
about the cease-fire violations. As you
ladies and gentlemen will recall, I have
consistently pointed out in meeting with
you, that we would expect violations be-
cause of the nature of the war, the guer-
rilla nature, and that even in Korea, in
which we do not have a guerrilla war, we
still have violations. They recede every
year,
but we still have them long-15, 20
years after the war is over.
In the case of these violations, we are
concerned about them on two scores. One,
because they occur, but two, we are con-
cerned because of another violation that
could lead to, we think, rather serious
consequences—we do not believe it will;
we hope that it will not-and that is the
reports that you ladies and gentlemen
have been receiving from your colleagues
in Vietnam with regard to infiltration.
You will note that there have been re-
ports of infiltration by the North Viet-
namese into South Vietnam of equipment
exceeding the amounts that were agreed
upon in the settlement.
Now, some equipment can come in. In
other words, replacement equipment, but
no new equipment, nothing which steps
up the capacity of the North Vietnamese
or the Vietcong to wage war in the South.
No new equipment is allowed under the
agreement.
Now, as far as that concern is con-
cerned, particularly on the infiltration—
that is the more important point, rather
than the cease-fire violations which we
think, over a period of time, will be re-
duced-but in terms of the infiltration, I
am not going to say publicly what we have
said.
I will only suggest this: that we have
informed the North Vietnamese of our
concern about this infiltration and of what
we believe it to be, a violation of the cease-
fire, the cease-fire and the peace agree-
205
