[115] Apr. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
leave a job before retirement should be
able to defer taxes on those payments
until retirement.
In order to avoid the problems of
administering funds for the benefit of a
former employee, an employer will some-
times give a departing employee a lump-
sum payment representing all his retire-
ment benefits. Present law requires that
the employee pay income tax on that pay-
ment even if he intends to put it aside for
his retirement. A worker who remains
with one employer pays no such tax. This
discrimination should be corrected.
The legislation we are proposing would
amend the tax law to permit the worker
who receives a lump-sum payment of re-
tirement benefits before he retires to put
the money into another qualified retire-
ment savings program-either in his own
or an employer-sponsored plan-without
having to pay a tax on it, or on the in-
terest it earns, until he draws benefits
upon retirement.
THE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROTECTION
Аст
An important companion to the five-
point reform contained in the Retirement
Benefits Tax Act is our proposed legisla-
tion to make the Federal Government a
tougher watchdog over the administra-
tion of the more than $160 billion in pri-
vate pension and welfare funds benefit-
ting American workers.
Submitted by this Administration more
than 3 years ago, this needed reform lan-
guished in both the 91st and 92nd Con-
gresses. Each month that it has sat un-
enacted, the small minority of employee
benefit fund officials who are careless or
unscrupulous have been permitted to
deny hard-working men and women part
of their benefits. That is why we are today
proposing to the 93rd Congress a strength-
ened and improved Employee Benefits
Protection Act, with an urgent request for
prompt action.
Control of pension and welfare funds
is shared by employers, unions, banks, in-
surance companies, and many others.
Most pension plans are carefully man-
aged by responsible people, but too many
workers have too much at stake for the
Government simply to assume that all
fund management will automatically meet
a high fiduciary standard.
Accordingly, the bill we are proposing
would establish for the first time an ex-
plicit Federal requirement that persons
who control employee benefit funds must
deal with those funds exclusively in the
interest of the employee participants and
their beneficiaries. Certain corrupt prac-
tices such as embezzlement and kickbacks
in connection with welfare and pension
funds are already Federal crimes, but
many other types of activity which clearly
breach principles of fiduciary conduct are
overlooked by present statutes. My pro-
posal would plug these holes in the law to
give workers a more solid defense against
mishandling of funds.
Present reporting and disclosure re-
quirements would also be broadened to
require of benefit plan administrators a
detailed accounting of their stewardship
similar to that rendered by mutual funds,
banks, and insurance companies.
To back up these changes, the new law
would give additional investigative and
enforcement powers to the Secretary of
Labor, and would permit pension fund
participants and beneficiaries to seek
remedies for breach of fiduciary duty
through class action suits.
Finally, the Employee Benefits Protec-
278
