Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 3 [281]
dent's Cabinet or a member of his staff.
I have indicated that if a member of the
President's Cabinet or his staff is indicted,
he would have to resign pending the out-
come of the trial.
However, the Vice President, like the
President, is elected by all the people. He
holds that office in his own right, and the
decision as to whether he should resign is
for him to make. He has indicated that he
will not resign if indicted, and therefore,
that decision on his part should be
respected.
Q. Mr. President, have you ever asked
for him to consider resigning?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have not. I have
noted the lively discussion about resigna-
tion here in the press room, and I under-
stand that. But let me say that in all the
conversations I have had with the Vice
President, I have never asked him to re-
sign. I have always told him-and he un-
derstands this position-that this matter
is one for him to decide.
I would say further that as far as our
discussions are concerned, they are privi-
leged, and I will not go further than that,
other than to say that we both agreed that
we could make public the fact that the
charges that have been made against him,
and which he has denied publicly, he has
denied to me privately on three occasions.
THE PRESIDENT'S RESIDENCE AT SAN
CLEMENTE
[4] Q. Mr. President, at your last
press conference you said that some of the
Government work done at San Clemente
had diminished the value of the property
for use as a home. I would like to ask
about two items that are in the GSA
[General Services Administration] reports
on it.
First, do you think that the $13,500 elec-
trical heating system that was installed
diminished its value? And, second, do you
think that when the GSA hired a local
landscape architect to redesign the flower
beds on the west side of the residence four
times a year, that they were spending the
taxpayers' money wisely?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can plow that
ground again, I guess. If any of you have
lived in California, you will know that gas
heat costs less than electric heat. I pre-
ferred the first, gas heat. For security rea-
sons, apparently, they decided that it pre-
sented a fire hazard which could not be
tolerated. And so that decision was made.
With regard to the other matters that
have been brought up, I think full state-
ments have been made over and over
again on this, and I really think anything
I would say in answer to your question, in
view of the way you have already pre-
sented it as a statement, would not con-
vince you or anybody else.
UNFILLED POSITIONS IN THE
ADMINISTRATION
[5] Q. Mr. President, may I ask you
two questions in one, because both re-
late to-
THE PRESIDENT. You are like Mr. Mol-
lenhoff [Clark R. Mollenhoff, Des Moines
Register and Tribune]. You can ask three
if you like.
Q. I will just ask a doubleheader, all
right? Both are related to unfilled jobs.
That is why I am putting them together.
We have not had an Ambassador in the
Soviet Union now for going on to 9
months, and the Chairman of your Com-
839
