[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
modern weapons are also spiraling,
further constraining our ability to
maintain conventional force levels.
At the same time, the political climate
at home has changed. In spite of the ad-
justments we have already made to new
conditions, we face intensified pressures
for further withdrawals of our deployed
forces and for greater reductions. In the
post-Vietnam environment, some Ameri-
cans seem eager to return to the prevalent
philosophy of the 1930's, and resist U.S.
involvement in world affairs. The con-
sensus which sustained our national com-
mitment to a strong American military
posture over the postwar period is no
longer unchallenged.
The emerging global order, however,
has neither exact historical parallels nor
a predestined outcome. American actions
will be a decisive determinant of its shape.
In a period of developing détente, it is
easy to be lulled into a false sense of se-
curity. Threats are less blatant; the temp-
tation is greater to make unilateral reduc-
tions and neglect the realities of existing
forces of potential adversaries.
In such a fluid period we have no re-
sponsible choice but to remain alert to
the possibility that the current trend to-
ward détente with the Soviet Union and
China may not prove durable. We have
only begun an area of negotiations. We
must not now ignore fundamental changes
in the balance of forces or in the potential
strength of our adversaries in an era of
rapid change. To do so would only tempt
challenges to our security interests and
jeopardize chances for achieving greater
stability through further agreements.
Military adequacy is never permanently
guaranteed. To maintain security requires
a continuing effort. But faced with es-
calating costs of manpower and weapons
and competing domestic demands, we
must insure that defense spending is based
on a realistic assessment of our security re-
quirements, and we must endeavor to
reduce expenditures through more effec-
tive management.
There is, however, an irreducible min-
imum below which we cannot go without
jeopardizing the very foundations of our
diplomacy, our interests, and our national
security. This Nation cannot afford the
cost of weakness. Our strength is an es-
sential stabilizing element in a world of
turmoil and change. Our friends rely on
it; our adversaries respect it. It is the
essential underpinning for our diplomacy,
designed to increase international under-
standing and to lessen the risks of war.
While taking the necessary steps to
maintain the sufficiency of our strength,
we are seeking a sound basis for limiting
arms competition. Both elements are
fundamental to a national defense that in-
sures a more stable structure of peace.
STRATEGIC POLICY
Deterrence of war is the primary goal
of our strategic policy and the principal
function of our nuclear forces. Thus, our
objectives continue to be:
-to deter all-out attack on the United
States or its allies;
-to face any potential aggressor con-
templating less than all-out attack
with unacceptable risks; and
-to maintain a stable political environ-
ment within which the threat of ag-
gression or coercion against the
United States or its allies is
minimized.
Strategic forces are the central com-
480
