[44] Feb. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
must be further advanced by Congres-
sional action this year.
The Agricultural Act of 1970 expires
with the 1973 crop. We now face the
fundamental challenge of developing leg-
islation appropriate to the economy of
the 1970's. Over the next several months,
the future direction of the farm program
must be discussed, debated and written
into law. The outcome of this process will
be crucial not only to farmers and ranch-
ers, but to consumers and taxpayers as
well.
My Administration's fundamental ap-
proach to farm policy is to build on the
forward course set by the 1970 Act. These
principles should guide us in enacting new
farm legislation:
-Farmers must be provided with
greater freedom to make production and
marketing decisions. I have never known
anyone in Washington who knows better
than a farmer what is in his own best
interest.
-Government influence in the farm
commodity marketplace must be reduced.
Old fashioned Federal intrusion is as in-
appropriate to today's farm economy as
the old McCormick reaper would be on a
highly sophisticated modern farm.
-We must allow farmers the oppor-
tunity to produce for expanding domestic
demands and to continue our vigorous
competition in export markets. We will
not accomplish that goal by telling the
farmer how much he can grow or the
rancher how much livestock he can raise.
Fidelity to this principle will have the wel-
come effect of encouraging both fair food
prices for consumers and growing income
from the marketplace for farmers.
-We must reduce the farmer's de-
pendence on Government payments
through increased returns from sales of
farm products at home and abroad. Be-
⚫ cause some of our current methods of
handling farm problems are outmoded,
the farmer has been unfairly saddled with
the unflattering image of drinking pri-
marily at the Federal well. Let us remem-
ber that more than 93 percent of gross
farm income comes directly through the
marketplace. Farmers and ranchers are
strong and independent businessmen; we
should expand their opportunity to exer-
cise their strength and independence.
-Finally, we need a program that will
put the United States in a good posture
for forthcoming trade negotiations.
In pursuing all of these goals, we will
work closely through the Secretary of
Agriculture with the Senate Committee
on Agriculture and Forestry and the
House Committee on Agriculture to for-
mulate and enact new legislation in areas
where it is needed.
I believe, for example, that dairy sup-
port systems, wheat, feed grains and
cotton allotments and bases-some estab-
lished decades ago are drastically out-
dated. They tend to be discriminatory for
many farm operators.
It would be desirable to establish, after
a reasonable transition period, a more
equitable basis for production adjustment
in the agricultural economy should such
adjustment be needed in the years ahead.
Direct Federal payments should, at the
end of the transition period, be limited
to the amounts necessary to compensate
farmers for withholding unneeded land
from crop production.
As new farm legislation is debated in
the months ahead, I hope the Congress
will address this important subject with a
deep appreciation of the need to keep the
Government off the farm as well as keep-
ing the farmer on.
100
