Appendix B
December
14 Country and western entertainer Tex Ritter
called on the President at the White House
to present a recording entitled "Thank
You, Mr. President." Also attending the
meeting was Wesley Rose, president of the
Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville.
14 Officials of the American Nursing Home
Association met with the President at the
White House to discuss health care and
health insurance programs. The President
expressed his appreciation for their im-
plementation of the eight-point program to
improve nursing home care which was an-
nounced during his visit to the Greenbriar
Nursing Home at Nashua, N.H., on Au-
gust 6, 1971.
14 Archbishop Jean Jadot, Apostolic Delegate
to the United States, met with the Presi-
dent at the White House.
15 William E. Simon, Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury and Administrator of the Fed-
eral Energy Office, and John C. Sawhill,
Deputy Administrator of the Federal En-
ergy Office, met with the President at the
White House to discuss Administration ef-
forts to conserve energy.
17 Secretary of Labor Peter J. Brennan met
with the President at the White House to
discuss the manpower legislation currently
in conference between the House of Repre-
sentatives and the Senate. Following that
meeting, the President greeted senior offi-
cials of the Department of Labor.
17 The President participated in a promotion
ceremony at the White House for Col. Law-
rence Adams, Commanding Officer, White
House Communications Agency. Colonel
Adams was promoted to the rank of briga-
dier general in the U.S. Army.
18 Attorney General-designate William B.
Saxbe met with the President at the White
House.
18 Senator James A. McClure of Idaho met
with the President at the White House to
report on his recent trip to the Middle East.
December
18 Representatives of the National Parks Cen-
tennial Commission called on the President
at the White House to present the Commis-
sion's final report.
18 Ambassador O. Rudolph Aggrey met with
the President at the White House prior to
assuming his post as United States Ambas-
sador to Senegal and The Gambia.
19 The President greeted Rabbi Baruch Korff,
of Providence, R.I., president of the Na-
tional Citizens Committee for Fairness to
the President, and members of the com-
mittee's executive board. The committee
had sponsored newspaper advertisements in
support of the President. The President
thanked them for their support and encour-
agement.
19 After meeting in the Oval Office with Wil-
liam E. Simon, Administrator of the Fed-
eral Energy Office and Deputy Secretary of
the Treasury, the President opened a meet-
ing of the Energy Emergency Action Group
in the Cabinet Room.
19 James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of Defense,
and Roy L. Ash, Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, met with the
President at the White House to discuss De-
fense budget matters.
19 The President and Mrs. Nixon greeted
members of the White House Staff at a
Christmas reception at the White House.
20 The President greeted Anna Clinkscales,
who organized a door-to-door campaign in
Baltimore, Md., to demonstrate support for
the President.
20 The White House announced that Vice
President Gerald R. Ford would be the
Personal Representative of the President at
the funeral of Spanish Prime Minister Luis
Carrero Blanco in Madrid on December 21.
The U.S. delegation also included William
J. Porter, Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs, and Adm Horacio Rivero,
United States Ambassador to Spain
1088
