[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
action, particularly in the field of peace
and security. But neither can we discount
or ignore the significant and constructive
role that multilateral organizations can
and do play in coping with matters of
world interest. What is essential is to dis-
cern how and when the United Nations
can act effectively for the benefit of man-
kind. This Administration, like its prede-
cessors since the founding of the United
Nations in 1945, is committed to strength-
ening the world organization as a dynamic
instrument for constructive international
action.
MAINTAINING THE PEACE
The capacity of the United Nations to
reconcile political disputes and curb out-
breaks of violence is limited, depending as
it does on the willingness of members to
utilize its machinery and, in particular, on
the attitudes of the permanent members
of the Security Council. This was starkly
illustrated by the inability of the Security
Council to act in the India-Pakistan con-
flict in December 1971, when Soviet
vetoes frustrated ceasefire resolutions
which had the support of an overwhelm-
ing majority of members. Differences
among the major powers on the author-
ization, conduct, and financing of peace-
keeping missions have yet to be resolved,
but improvement of relations among these
powers may enable the United Nations to
act more effectively in the future. In view
of America's objective that responsibilities
for maintaining peace be widely shared,
the strengthening of the United Nations
peace-keeping role is an important goal of
American policy.
A way must also be found to assure the
continuous representation on the Security
Council of those states whose resources
and influence could facilitate the Coun-
cil's action. Any formula for such a re-
structuring of the Council, however,
should not result in an unwieldy body
whose operations would be slower and
more uncertain than they now are.
We believe that Security Council pro-
cedures must be improved. A far greater
effort must be made to base decisions on
impartial fact-finding. It is also impera-
tive that the Council not allow itself to be
used for the blatant promotion of the
views of one party while that party is in
negotiations with another, as happened
during the meetings in Panama in March
1973. At the time, we said that this was
an unwise and improper use of the Coun-
cil; the atmosphere of the meeting and its
outcome showed that our misgivings were
justified.
THE HUMAN RIGHTS DIMENSION
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights guides our actions in the United
Nations to ease the plight of those whose
basic rights have been denied. Our stand
against apartheid and other forms of rac-
ism has been clearly articulated in many
United Nations forums. Our commit-
ments to the basic rights of freedom of
movement has caused us to speak out in
the United Nations against restrictions on
the right to emigrate.
In other areas of human rights concern,
our United Nations representatives have
played a leading role in promoting the
development of new rules for the observ-
ance of rights in armed conflicts. Re-
sponding in part to initiatives taken in the
United Nations, the International Com-
mittee of the Red Cross (ICRC) held a
series of consultations of experts to frame
proposals for enlarging the protections
502
