[354] Dec. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
tiful western setting to help maintain a
truly national perspective for the Presi-
dency.
NOTE: The papers referred to in the statement
and other pertinent documents are printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 9, pp. 1413-1447).
355 Letter to the Chairman of the Joint Committee on
Internal Revenue Taxation Requesting Examination of
the President's Tax Returns. December 8, 1973
Dear Mr. Chairman:
Recently there have been many ques-
tions in the press about my personal fi-
nances during my tenure as President.
In order to answer these questions and
to dispel public doubts, I am today mak-
ing public a full accounting of my finan-
cial transactions since I assumed this of-
fice. This accounting includes copies of
the income tax returns that Mrs. Nixon
and I have filed for the years 1969-72; a
full, certified audit of our finances; a full,
certified report on the real and personal
property we own; an analysis of our fi-
nancial transactions, including taxes, from
January 1, 1969 through May 31, 1973,
and other pertinent documents.
While these disclosures are the most ex-
haustive ever made by an American Pres-
ident, to the best of my knowledge, I rec-
ognize that two tax-related items may
continue to be a subject of continuing
public questioning. Both items are highly
complex and, in the present environment,
cannot easily be resolved to the public's
satisfaction even with full disclosure of
information.
The first transaction is the gift of cer-
tain pre-Presidential papers and other
memorabilia which my wife and I claimed
as a tax deduction of $576,000 on our
1969 return and have carried forward, in
part, in each subsequent year. The second
item in question is the transfer by us,
through the Title Insurance and Trust
Co., to the B&C Investment Co. of the
beneficial interest in 23 acres of land in
San Clemente, California in 1970. I have
been consistently advised by counsel that
this transaction was correctly reported to
the Internal Revenue Service. The IRS
has also reviewed these items and has
advised me that they were correctly
reported.
In order to resolve these issues to the
full satisfaction of the American people, I
hereby request the Joint Committee on
Internal Revenue Taxation to examine
both of these transactions and to inform
me whether, in its judgment, the items
have been correctly reported to the In-
ternal Revenue Service. In the event that
the committee determines that the items
were incorrectly reported, I will pay what-
ever tax may be due. I also want to assure
you that the committee will have full
access to all relevant documents pertain-
ing to these matters and will have the full
cooperation of my office.
I recognize that this request may pose
an unusual challenge for the committee,
but I believe your assistance on this mat-
ter would be a significant public service.
With warmest regards,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[The Honorable Wilbur D. Mills, Chairman,
Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxa-
1008
