Richard Nixon, 1973
June 21 [180]
but I am willing to continue a limited
amount of Federal funding for their proj-
ects during this one year of transition.
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF
AIRPORTS
The third bill which I signed into law
yesterday is S. 38, the Airport Develop-
ment Acceleration Act of 1973.
Both the Congress and the executive
agree that the Federal Government should
continue to assist in the construction of
new airports and in the improvement of
existing airports. The only question is how
much we should spend.
In my most recent budget, I recom-
mended an annual level of $280 million.
The Senate then passed a measure setting
the tab at $420 million. The compromise
which has been worked out in S. 38 is an
authorization level of $310 million.
A second feature of this bill, prohibit-
ing the collection of "head taxes" at
nearly all airports, has already raised a
storm of protests among local govern-
ments which will lose a source of revenue.
I previously favored a moratorium rather
than a prohibition on the taxes, so that we
could study them more closely. Because
of the special interest which local gov-
ernments have in this issue, I am directing
the Secretary of Transportation to con-
duct an immediate study of the effect of
the prohibition and to submit his recom-
mendations to me no later than July 1,
1974.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1136, H.R. 2246, and
S. 38, approved June 18, 1973, are Public Law
93-45 (87 Stat. 91), Public Law 93-46 (87
Stat. 96), and Public Law 93-44 (87 Stat. 88),
respectively.
180 Letter to the United Nations Secretary General
About West Africa Drought Relief Measures.
June 21, 1973
Dear Mr. Secretary General:
I fully share the concerns which you
have expressed to Ambassador Scali for
the millions of persons who are suffering
from the terrible drought in the Sahelian
nations of West and Central Africa. For
many months reports from United States
and United Nations representatives and
from the governments themselves have re-
lated graphically the growing effects of
the worst drought of this century in the
African Sahel. Those of us who have been
spared this scourge have been responding
to the crisis, but more must be done, as
you have said. The United States
stands prepared to commit further re-
sources as needs are identified.
As you know, the United States reponse
has been carried out on several fronts.
We have increased the amounts of food-
grains destined for these nations through
both American programs and the World
Food Programs. By mid-summer, 156,000
tons of grain valued at nearly $19 million
will have arrived in West African ports or
in the interior states of Mali, Upper Volta,
Niger and Chad. Two million dollars in
disaster relief funds have also been made
available. United States Air Force air-
craft, and those of other donors, are air-
lifting grain to stricken nomads and
farmers in remote districts of Mali and
Chad. Animal feed and vaccines are being
distributed to save as much livestock
601
