Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
terested in finding ways to make our pres-
ent tax structure fairer and simpler. Tax
reform has been under consideration for
some time and there is a continuing need
for revising and simplifying the tax laws.
My Administration has made some spe-
cific suggestions to that end and has indi-
cated a willingness to work with the tax
writing committees of the Congress in a
general review of the Internal Revenue
Code. This important task should be
undertaken now rather than during an
election year when political pressures in-
variably make such reform more difficult.
I would call special attention to one
tax reform measure extensively discussed
during the 1972 campaign and now pend-
ing before the Congress. That is my rec-
ommendation for providing property tax
relief for older Americans. Retired people
with low incomes bear a crushing and
unfair property tax burden in many States.
Even though their incomes decline with
retirement, the property tax in many cases
goes on rising. As a result, the home which
should be a symbol of financial inde-
pendence for older people often becomes
another cause of financial strain. I again
urge prompt action on the Administra-
tion's proposal to provide a special tax
credit to help older people with lower
incomes pay their property taxes. Simple
justice demands it.
STOCKPILE DISPOSAL ACT
Another important action which the
Congress can take in the battle against
rising prices is to provide the necessary
authority for selling part of our national
strategic stockpile-materials which are
no longer needed for national security. I
requested such authority last April with
regard to $4 billion worth of goods in our
stockpile. Such sales, by allowing us to
increase supplies in the marketplace of
major commodities, could help provide
important relief for hard-pressed Ameri-
can consumers. Further, this bill could
help to maintain and provide employment
for workers whose jobs are dependent
upon the availability of basic commodities
such as aluminum, zinc and copper, all of
which are in short supply.
Our country's strategic stockpile still re-
flects the economic and military realities
of the 1950's-in fact, 95 percent of the
current stockpile was acquired before
1959. In the 1970's, however, our military
requirements have changed-and so has
our economic capacity to meet them. My
proposed new guidelines for the stockpile
would carefully protect our national se-
curity in the light of these changing
realities, while substantially enhancing
our economic health.
I regret that this legislation has not
moved forward more rapidly during the
past few months. In the name of national
efficiency, thrift, and price stability, I call
again for its prompt and favorable
consideration.
OTHER ECONOMIC LEGISLATION
As I indicated in my message to Con-
gress on August 3, I will shortly be sub-
mitting my legislation on the restructur-
ing of financial institutions. This is a com-
plex matter which requires thorough but
prompt study by the Congress.
I call, too, for speedy enactment of
legislation which has now emerged from
conference which would establish the
Council on International Economic Policy
on a permanent basis.
31-870 - 75 - 52
767
