[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
they think of the bomb. They think of the
possibility that one of them is going to
blow up. My house in San Clemente is
just 12 miles from the Southern Califor-
nia Edison Company's nuclear power-
plant. It is safe. It produces good power.
It is clean power. And the United States,
which first found the secret of the atom,
is behind where it ought to be in the devel-
opment of nuclear power.
If we go all out in developing our coal
resources, our natural gas resources, as
well as, of course, our oil from Alaska
which will provide one-third-I said in-
correctly the other day in talking to a
group not one-third of all of our oil needs,
but one-third of all of our oil imports-
and if we add to that, nuclear power, the
United States in 1980 can be self-
sufficient. Just closing that off, let me
tell you why that is so terribly important.
"The Arabs," they say, "well, the Arabs,
maybe they are irrational, and we should
not depend on them anyway."
Let me tell you, when you are in trou-
ble, don't depend on anybody but your-
self. Venezuela? What is going to happen
in Venezuela? They send us a lot of oil,
but they could change their minds under
a radical government, and they could get
one, one day. I don't think so, but they
could.
What about Canada, our great friends
to the north? A lot of Canadians are lis-
tening here, but I can tell you, your pres-
ent Minister of the Interior, or whatever,
in charge of oil-he is a tough guy, and
they drive hard bargains, and I guess we
would, too, if we were Canadians.
My point is, the United States of Amer-
ica, as the greatest industrial power of the
world, with 7 percent of the world's peo-
ple and using 30 percent of the world's
energy, shouldn't have to depend on any
other country for energy that provides our
jobs and our transportation and our light
and our heat. We can become self-
sufficient, this is a great project, and I am
going to push it.
POST-RETIREMENT PLANS
[19] Q. Mr. President, I am John
Chandley of the Kansas City Times. Not
being a member of the Washington press
corps, I am not going to ask when you are
going to retire, but I am going to ask you,
when you do leave the White House, what
do you plan to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that depends
on when I leave.
No, seriously, I know that this group
has asked very good questions and very
appropriate ones. I was hoping you would
ask me about the milk-would you mind
asking me about the milk?
Q. I don't know anything about the
milk.
THE PRESIDENT. I will answer this, and
then I will go to the milk-in the back.
As far as retirement, at that time I
understand I will be 63 years of age, and
I am relatively healthy at the present time.
I don't know how healthy I will be then.
Among the things I will not do, I will
not practice law, I won't go on any board
of directors. I will tell you, after being
President, you never want to sit at any
other end of the table, and being on a
board of directors-it pays well, but it is
rather boring. That is, at least, what I
found when I was Vice President-not
out of any conceit or anything, it is just
the fact boards of directors are fine, but I
don't think for former Presidents.
What I probably will do is to do a little
writing. I will not do any speaking. I
have made enough speeches in a year to
962
