Richard Nixon, 1973
May 2 [138]
138 Joint Statement Following Discussions With
Chancellor Brandt of the Federal Republic of
Germany. May 2, 1973
THE PRESIDENT of the United States
of America Richard M. Nixon and the
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of
Germany Willy Brandt confirmed at their
meetings in Washington on May 1 and 2
the relationship of trust and confidence
between the United States and the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany, and discussed
the future relationship between the
United States and Western Europe, ques-
tions of Alliance and Defense Policy, cur-
rent and long-term problems of West-East
relations and other international ques-
tions. Secretary of State William P.
Rogers and Foreign Minister Walter
Scheel held complementary talks and
shared in part of the discussions between
the President and the Chancellor. Fed-
eral Minister Egon Bahr discussed
particular questions relating to Berlin.
There was full agreement that the rela-
tions between the United States and West-
ern Europe will be governed in the future
as in the past by adherence to their com-
mon ideals of democratic freedom, human
rights and social justice.
The President and the Chancellor are
convinced that the peace and prosperity
of their nations depend on the preserva-
tion and consolidation of Atlantic
solidarity.
The Chancellor welcomed the assur-
ance given by President Nixon that the
United States will continue to support
European unification and affirmed the
readiness of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, together with the other members
of the European Community and its in-
stitutions, to participate in an open and
comprehensive discussion concerning the
nature of a balanced partnership between
the uniting Western Europe and the
United States. It was noted by the Presi-
dent and the Chancellor that these dis-
cussions must deal with common prob-
lems as well as common opportunities,
and should also consider arrangements
in which Japan and Canada could share.
In this context the constructive dialogue
with the United States envisaged by the
Conference of Heads of State and Gov-
ernment of the European Community
last October will be particularly useful.
The Chancellor welcomed President
Nixon's intention to intensify this dialogue
by his visit to Western Europe later this
year, including the President's plan to
meet with NATO and the European
Community.
The Chancellor recalled the decisions
taken at the Conference of Heads of State
and Government in Paris.
He expressed the conviction that the
nine States which aim at a comprehen-
sive transformation of their relations into
a European Union by 1980, will, acting
in common, make a joint contribution
in the international field in line with
Western Europe's determination to follow
an outward-looking policy, toward social
progress, peace and cooperation. Europe's
enlarged responsibility in international
politics will be evident in its loyalty to
traditional friendships and alliances.
The President and the Federal Chan-
cellor were in agreement that the new
round of negotiations in GATT [General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade], which
343
