[266] Sept. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
266 Joint Statement Following Discussions With Prime
Minister Bhutto of Pakistan. September 20, 1973
PRESIDENT Nixon and Prime Minister
Bhutto of Pakistan have held two cordial
and wide-ranging working discussions
during the Prime Minister's visit to Wash-
ington September 18-20. The meetings
gave the President and the Prime Minis-
ter an opportunity to renew their personal
friendship and to discuss matters of com-
mon interest to Pakistan and the United
States. Both President Nixon and Prime
Minister Bhutto reviewed and welcomed
the progress made in the past eighteen.
months in enhancing peaceful relations
throughout the world and in reducing
tension between the major powers. The
leaders pledged their continuing efforts to
build a just and lasting peace, based on
principles of national sovereignty and
equality, respect for territorial integrity,
and non-interference in the internal af-
fairs of any state. They also reaffirmed the
close ties of friendship that have long
characterized relations between the
United States and Pakistan. President
Nixon assured Prime Minister Bhutto of
strong U.S. support for Pakistan's inde-
pendence and territorial integrity, which
he considered a guiding principle of
American foreign policy.
President Nixon took the opportunity
to congratulate Prime Minister Bhutto
on the progress Pakistan has made over
the past twenty months. He noted the suc
cesses of the Prime Minister of Pakistan
in establishing representative government
under a democratic constitution recently
adopted by the National Assembly, and in
restoring the war-shattered economy of
Pakistan, which has unfortunately re-
ceived a serious set-back in the recent un-
precedented floods.
Prime Minister Bhutto voiced his warm
appreciation for the generous American
response to Pakistan's severe flood losses.
The two leaders discussed additional
needs and ways in which the United States
and the international community might
be responsive. President Nixon pledged
additional assistance and vigorous sup-
port for international relief efforts.
The two leaders also discussed Paki-
stan's long-term assistance needs. They
reviewed the substantial assistance which
the United States has extended to Paki-
stan. President Nixon noted the impor-
tance which the United States attaches to
Pakistan's stable development and re-
viewed for the Prime Minister plans for
future assistance.
Prime Minister Bhutto reviewed for the
President the Simla Agreement of July
1972, and the New Delhi Agreement of
August 28, 1973, calling for repatriation
of prisoners of war and other stranded
persons from the 1971 war between India
and Pakistan. The President congratu
lated Prime Minister Bhutto on his
statesmanship in reaching the agreements.
President Nixon reiterated the United
States' warm support for the process of
reconciliation underway in South Asia.
and expressed the United States' interest
in expeditious implementation of the
agreements and in the resolution of other
outstanding issues in South Asia through
peaceful means in accordance with inter-
nationally recognized principles.
There was also a discussion of inter-
814
