Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 7 [33]
of their symptoms and the rest, to make
it pretty apparent that they are missed
and that they are needed, and that gives
people that extra will to live. And that
will to live is what you really need when
you get close to that border point, as to
whether you are going to make it or not.
The Senator's got that will to live in
spades, and he has an awful lot of peo-
ple pulling for him, not just in the Senate,
not just in his own party, not just in his
own State, but all over the country, be-
cause he is a national Senator. He rep-
resents the Nation, not one region.
And another thing that is rather char-
acteristic of him is he is such a kind man.
I would say I don't know of anybody in
the Senate, Republican or Democratic-
many disagree with him because he is a
strong national defense man, and those
who want to weaken the national defense,
for this reason or that, disagree with him-
but there is no one that dislikes John
Stennis. They all love him because he is
such a fine man. That is why you want
him to get back there.
Thank you.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Good luck to
you. I told the doctors-incidentally, I
congratulated them all-I said I hope I
don't ever have to come out here to have
them work on me. I don't expect to, either.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
9:20 a.m. outside the Center.
Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi was
shot during a robbery in front of his North-
west Washington home on January 30, 1973.
33 Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House Proposing Enactment of Foreign Assistance
Legislation for Fiscal Year 1973. February 7, 1973
I AM forwarding herewith a draft of pro-
posed legislation "To amend the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, and for other pur-
poses." This legislation would authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 1973 for
international security assistance and for
relief assistance in Bangladesh, make ap-
propriations available for disaster relief in
the Philippines, and make our military
assistance more effective. These proposals
are the same as those I presented to the
Congress last year.
Foreign assistance plays an indispensa-
ble role in the achievement of our foreign
policy and national security goals. Because
the last Congress did not take final action
on the legislative proposals before it or on
foreign assistance appropriations, these
programs have been operating for almost
seven months under a continuing resolu-
tion providing temporary appropriations.
The delay in enactment of authorization
and appropriation bills has created uncer-
tainties among our friends and allies as to
our resolution and willingness to provide
essential economic and security assistance.
Yet this is precisely the time when con-
fidence is most needed in our commitment
to continuing our efforts to build a lasting
structure of peace.
In the conviction that the timely and
full support of these programs on the
part of the Congress is in our own na-
tional interest, I urge the Congress to
81
