Richard Nixon, 1973
[297]
Oct. 15
States, the many friends, and my own family,
many friends I have known for so many years.
So, it has really been, Mr. President, a won-
derful evening for us, and I want to thank you
and Pat very much for making it what it is. It
is an evening we will never forget. I am par-
ticularly happy though, to speak more frankly,
because you gave that as one of my qualities,
that the Chief Justice called me a good man,
because I have been concerned recently by
reading in the paper that I was an elder
statesman.
Now, I am only 60 years old. In fact, I called
Nelson Rockefeller and asked him if he thought
it was fair that I was designated as an elder
statesman, and he said no. As a matter of fact,
I am planning to call Ronald Reagan as soon
as I have a chance.
And I want to say that going into public
life is, of course, different, 4½ years as Secre-
tary of State, going back to private life is differ-
ent. And one of the things that is somewhat
maddening about it is that people come over
to you, I think, with the same morbid curiosity
they have when they stop at automobile acci-
dents, and say to you, "What are you doing
now?"
Well, I will tell you what I am doing now.
I am picking a little cotton. And George, I
really think that you got a little uptight
on that. If you have been in Washington as
long as the President and I have been in Wash-
ington, you come to realize this. There is not
much cotton growing in Washington, but there
are an awful lot of cottonpickers.¹
¹ Mr. Rogers was referring to a remark made
by Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
on September 14, 1973, at a news briefing held
during his trip to Tokyo, Japan, to attend the
multilateral trade negotiations. When asked by
a reporter for his reaction to statements made
by Melvin R. Laird at a White House news
briefing on economic policy the day before, Sec-
retary Shultz responded in part: ". . . I think
the President's Adviser on Domestic Affairs
should keep his cotton-picking hands off the
economic policy for a change."
And I don't really think Mel Laird meant
anything by it, he just couldn't stand private
life. When he got outside, he couldn't take it.
He is a recidivist, really, a political recidivist,
and I think that is just part of it.
Well, Mr. President, I again want to thank
you very much. Probably the last 42 years
have been the most successful years in foreign
affairs that this country has ever experienced,
and under your leadership, I think all Ameri-
cans know that we have had extraordinary
progress in the field of foreign affairs. And I
think if there is one lasting impression that I
gained, particularly from travels abroad, it was
that the United States and the American peo-
ple are respected and admired by almost
everyone.
We are criticized, and people find fault with
us, and obviously, we have our weaknesses. But
basically, I believe that most of the people in
the world have a deep respect for the American
people, and I think all of us can be proud of
the country that we live in.
Mr. President, I have been touched by some
of the letters I have received, not the ones
you might expect, but so many letters written
in longhand by just ordinary people, two or
three paragraphs just saying thank you, and I
think that is a tribute to the American people
that they would take that much trouble to ex-
press thanks for people in public life.
And in that spirit, Mr. President, I want to
say that it is a great opportunity that you have
given to Adele and me, and to all the others
who have served with you, great opportunity.
Representing the United States is a great honor,
representing the people of the United States is
a privilege, a great privilege, a privilege that
comes to very few people. And with those
thoughts in mind, in the spirit of the people,
ordinary people who have written letters—and
I am sure all of you who serve in the Adminis-
tration have gotten them-I want to say, for
giving Adele and me the opportunity we have
had, the honor we have had to represent the
United States, and for the privilege we have
had of representing the American people, thank
you.
31-870 - 75 - 59
879
