[208] July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
Senate to its ratification. The Protocol
was signed at Paris on November 30, 1972
by the United States and 22 other nations
party to the 1928 Convention.
The Paris Convention of 1928 created
the Bureau of International Expositions,
the purpose of which is to provide basic
rules regarding international expositions.
The United States joined the Bureau in
1968 with the advice and consent of the
Senate, after it had become apparent that
it would be in the national interest to co-
ordinate planning of United States expo-
sitions with planning in other countries.
One of the objectives of membership in
the Bureau was to give the United States
a voice in modernizing the Convention.
The United States participated in the
drafting of the 1972 Protocol, which in-
corporates a completely revised text of the
Convention. The purpose of the revision
is to amend the rules and procedures gov-
erning international expositions in line
with current techniques and to modern-
ize the provisions concerning the activities
of the Bureau. By limiting the frequency
of expositions, the new Protocol should
reduce the financial demands on partici-
pating governments.
I commend the purposes of the Proto-
col and request that the Senate advise and
consent to its ratification, subject to the
reservation recommended in the report of
the Department of State.
The White House,
July 19, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the protocol and accompany-
ing papers are printed in Senate Executive N
(93d Cong., 1st sess ).
209 Remarks on Departure From Bethesda Naval Hospital,
Maryland. July 20, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen of the hospital staff
and ladies and gentlemen of the press:
As I leave Bethesda after the first stay in
the hospital since 13 years ago when I was
at Walter Reed, I want to express my ap-
preciation to all of the doctors, the nurses,
the hospital corpsmen, and the others
who have given me such wonderful atten-
tion since I have been here.
I just have been up calling on Congress-
man Landgrebe, of Indiana, who had a
heart attack, and he agrees with me that
certainly the service here is the very best.
But what is even more important, the
kindness, the thoughtfulness of all of the
people here has deeply touched me; it
touched him and everybody who is here. I
know from some experience-not too
much experience in a hospital, but from
having visited many people in a hospi-
tal-that what matters far more, when
that nurse comes in and gives you that
thermometer, or whatever else she has to
give you some bad tasting medicine or
whatever the case may be it isn't her
competence that matters so much, but it is
the fact that she smiles, she lifts you, she
makes you feel better. The same is true of
the corpsmen.
And I must say the spirit of Bethesda,
the spirit of the Navy, and I must say, also,
the spirit of all of our people who serve
the armed services in the medical divi-
sions, is one that emphasizes high excel-
lence and also a great human feeling from
the heart.
654
