[323] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
immediate acceleration of that program.
We can take heart from the fact that
we in the United States have half the
world's known coal reserves. We have
huge, untapped sources of natural gas. We
have the most advanced nuclear tech-
nology known to man. We have oil in our
continental shelves. We have oil shale out
in the western part of the United States,
and we have some of the finest technical
and scientific minds in the world. In short,
we have all the resources we need to meet
the great challenge before us. Now we
must demonstrate the will to meet that
challenge.
In World War II, America was faced
with the necessity of rapidly developing an
atomic capability. The circumstances
were grave. Responding to that challenge,
this Nation brought together its finest
scientific skills and its finest administrative
skills in what was known as the Manhat-
tan Project. With all the needed resources
at its command, with the highest priority
assigned to its efforts, the Manhattan
Project gave us the atomic capacity that
helped to end the war in the Pacific and
to bring peace to the world.
Twenty years later, responding to a dif-
ferent challenge, we focused our scientific
and technological genius on the frontiers
of space. We pledged to put a man on the
Moon before 1970, and on July 20, 1969,
Neil Armstrong made that historic "giant
leap for mankind" when he stepped on
the Moon.
The lessons of the Apollo project and
of the earlier Manhattan Project are the
same lessons that are taught by the whole
of American history: Whenever the
American people are faced with a clear
goal and they are challenged to meet it,
we can do extraordinary things.
Today the challenge is to regain the
strength that we had earlier in this cen-
tury, the strength of self-sufficiency. Our
ability to meet our own energy needs is
directly limited to our continued ability
to act decisively and independently at
home and abroad in the service of peace,
not only for America but for all nations in
the world.
I have ordered funding of this effort to
achieve self-sufficiency far in excess of
the funds that were expended on the
Manhattan Project. But money is only one
of the ingredients essential to the success
of such a project. We must also have a
unified commitment to that goal. We
must have unified direction of the effort
to accomplish it.
Because of the urgent need for an or-
ganization that would provide focused
leadership for this effort, I am asking the
Congress to consider my proposal for an
Energy Research and Development Ad-
ministration, separate from any other or-
ganizational initiatives, and to enact this
legislation in the present session of the
Congress.
Let us unite in committing the resources
of this Nation to a major new endeavor, an
endeavor that in this Bicentennial Era we
can appropriately call "Project Independ-
ence."
Let us set as our national goal, in the
spirit of Apollo, with the determination
of the Manhattan Project, that by the end
of this decade we will have developed the
potential to meet our own energy needs
without depending on any foreign energy
sources.
Let us pledge that by 1980, under Proj-
ect Independence, we shall be able to
meet America's energy needs from Amer-
ica's own energy resources.
920
