Richard Nixon, 1973
May 9 [147]
agement not only enables us to serve the
public more effectively but also stands
as a respected model for all employers.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
May 9, 1973.
147
NOTE: The report is entitled "Mandate for
Merit-89th Annual Report, Fiscal Year
Ended June 30, 1972, United States Civil
Service Commission" (Government Printing
Office, 57 pp. plus appendixes).
Remarks at a Republican Fundraising Dinner.
May 9, 1973
Mr. Vice President, and all of the distin-
guished guests, because everyone here is a
distinguished guest tonight:
I had been hearing that this would be
less than an enthusiastic dinner tonight,
and I must say you have proved that per-
haps the critics were wrong.
I do know, too, that this is an evening
when you have been paying tribute to
some who have led our party in the past
year, in fact over the past years, to Chair-
man Bob Dole, Bob Wilson, and Peter
Dominick, and I wish to pay tribute to
them, too, and also to the new leaders-
the new leadership that is up here,
George Bush, and Bob Michel, Bill Brock.
They are a great team, and they are a
team that the Vice President and I will be
very proud to work with for the victory
that we are going to win in 1974.
Having mentioned the Vice President,
I thank him for his indefatigable cam-
paigning in all the years since we have
been together in Washington. He has
had to carry, as is often the lot of the Vice
President, the campaigning load when the
President has some other responsibilities
to undertake, and he has carried that load
with great dedication and great effective-
ness, and I am proud to have him as a
member of our team.
Now, as is always my custom before
speaking before any audience of such a
distinguished group as this, I asked the
chairman what I should talk about. And
it just happened this afternoon I met with
the chairman, Chairman Bush, and also
his other two colleagues and our new
finance chairman, Mr. Wilson from Ten-
nessee, and we had a discussion about this
dinner tonight and what you would like
to hear about.
You already heard the Vice President
praise the accomplishments of the Ad-
ministration, and so for me to add to that
would simply be, of course, adding praise
for what he says I have done, but which
you have made possible and all of us
working together have made possible, and
I will have something to say about that as
I conclude tonight.
But it has always been my practice be-
fore any kind of audience to take on those
subjects that some people think you don't
want to take on because they are difficult.
Let me say, I didn't get where I am
by ducking tough issues. I am keenly
aware of the fact that many Americans—
everybody in this room, for example-are
concerned about the developments that
we have been reading about and hearing
about in recent weeks and recent months.
I expressed my concern just a few days
ago on national television. I will not add
523
