[171] June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
171 Toasts of the President and President William R.
Tolbert, Jr., of Liberia. June 5, 1973
Mr. President, Mrs. Tolbert, and all of
our distinguished guests:
Secretary Rogers and I were just re-
marking about the fact that 2 weeks from
tonight in this room, and at this place, we
will be welcoming Mr. Brezhnev, the
leader of a great and powerful nation.
And tonight, just 2 weeks before that
visit, we welcome another very distin-
guished guest, President Tolbert.
When we met today, he said that he
represented a very small country, but I
think what this visit signifies to all of
us is that at a time when the United States,
we think quite properly, in the interest
of peace for our children and all the
generations to come, is developing a new
relationship with the People's Republic
of China and a new relationship with the
Soviet Union, that we not forget our old
friends.
Our first visitor in this room in the year
1973 was Prime Minister Heath, and as
all of us know, it has been said for many,
many years that we have a special re-
lationship with Britain. I should point out
tonight that we have, and that I par-
ticularly have, a very special relationship
with Liberia and with our distinguished
guest.
This is true not only because for 150
years we have enjoyed the closest relations
but is true also for very personal reasons.
President Tolbert and I served together
as Vice Presidents, and when people serve
as Vice Presidents, they learn a great deal.
Little did we dream that one day we
would serve together as Presidents. Of
course, all Vice Presidents dream of being
President, but few make it. And I sup-
pose this is one of those rare cases in
history when two men who have served
as Vice President meet together as Presi-
dent. And so that makes our relationship
very special.
It is very special for another reason.
We share the same view of the world, not
only of the necessity to develop a new and
peaceful relation between the great pow-
ers, the United States and the Soviet
Union, the United States and Europe, the
United States and Peking and Japan, but
also the necessity to think of the world
as it will be 25 years from now, 50 years
from now. We think of the new nations of
Africa, and we think of the older nations.
And we think of our friend, President
Tolbert, and the leadership that he is giv-
ing to all of those new nations trying to
develop a way to bring progress to their
people, bring it with freedom and at the
same time maintaining their independ-
ence.
I could simply say in presenting him to
you tonight that it would be enough to
mention him alone, but I must not forget
his wife.
When I was in Liberia-and my wife,
who has been there since, last year on a
good will trip-but when we were there
together in 1957, I remember going, Mr.
President, out into the countryside. You
were Vice President at that time, and we
met a paramount chief, and he was a very
old man, and he was very kind to me
and proceeded to designate me as a para-
mount chief. And he told me that one of
the rights of a paramount chief was to
have as many wives as he liked. I have
only one wife, President Tolbert has only
one, and she is a lovely lady, and we are
glad to have her here.
574
