Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 3 [106]
you on the conclusion of this meeting with
President Nixon. As you know already, the two
main purposes of my visit here are to thank in
person the American people for the generous
and disinterested assistance given to us during
the past difficult years, and secondly, to have
an opportunity to discuss with President Nixon
about what needs to be done in view of con-
solidating the peace in Vietnam and in South-
east Asia.
As I said earlier in my arrival statement, my
visit here marks at the same time an end and
a beginning an end to a very difficult period
of time during which our two countries have
endeavored to preserve freedom for the Viet-
namese people, and a beginning in the sense
that the newly achieved peace in Vietnam will
be the starting point of what President Nixon
calls a generation of peace for the whole world.
I had during these 2 days very thorough and
cordial conversations with President Nixon,
which I am sure will help lay the foundation of
lasting peace in our part of the world and of a
fruitful cooperation between the American and
Vietnamese people in the postwar period.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
I look forward to seeing you again, President
Nixon.
On the evening of April 2, 1973, the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Nixon hosted a dinner at their
residence for President and Mrs. Thieu. Presi-
dent Thieu hosted a luncheon at the residence
on April 3.
106
Joint Statement Following Discussions With
President Thieu of the Republic of Vietnam.
April 3, 1973
THE PRESIDENT of the United States,
Richard M. Nixon, and the President of
the Republic of Vietnam, Nguyen Van
Thieu, met for two days of discussions in
San Clemente at the outset of President
Thieu's official visit to the United States.
Taking part in these discussions on the
United States side were the Secretary of
State, William P. Rogers; the Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs, Henry A. Kissinger; the Ambassa-
dor of the United States to the Republic
of Vietnam, Ellsworth Bunker; the Am-
bassador-designate of the United States to
the Republic of Vietnam, Graham Mar-
tin; and other officials. On the side of the
Republic of Vietnam the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, Tran Van Lam; the
Minister of Economy, Pham Kim Ngoc;
the Minister of Finance, Ha Xuan Trung;
the Special Assistant to the President for
Foreign Affairs, Nguyen Phu Duc; the
Vietnamese Ambassador to the United
States, Tran Kim Phuong, and other offi-
cials also participated in the discussions.
The discussions were held in a very cor-
dial atmosphere appropriate to the en-
during relationship of friendship which
exists between the governments of the Re-
public of Vietnam and the United States.
The two Presidents discussed the course of
U.S.-Vietnamese relations since their
meeting at Midway Island on June 8,
1969 and the postwar relationship be-
tween the two countries. They reached
full consensus in their views.
President Nixon and President Thieu
reviewed the progress that has been made
in economic, political and defense affairs
in Vietnam since the Midway meeting.
President Nixon expressed gratification
with the proficiency of South Vietnam's
armed forces and noted their effective
and courageous performance in halting
the invasion launched by North Vietnam
on March 30, 1972. The President also
251
