[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tries. In addition, many have other strictly
political problems. Some nations have
only the most fragile tradition of demo-
cratic ways. Often, local conditions pro-
vide opportunities for political extremists
and revolutionaries. Political violence and
terrorism continue in some capitals. In
others, military forces provide the most
stable and disciplined group.
Most governments in the hemisphere
recognize these problems and are trying
to find solutions-with varying degrees
of success. There is an eager striving for
both economic progress and social justice.
Yet that striving is taking place against
heavy odds, and setbacks and discourage-
ment are common.
The upsurge of national efforts to meet
pressing internal problems is in part a
direct result of rising nationalism. An
increasing sense of national identity char-
acterizes every one of the American states.
But it is only part of the explanation for
their strong desire to overcome internal
weakness.
Another component is the fact that
pressures for economic development have
become so urgent that governments can-
not long survive if they ignore the plight
of their people. Modern communications
have brought the outside world into the
most remote areas and made apparent to
millions the vast gulf that separates their
way of life from that of even an average
family in industrially advanced countries.
Those millions are no longer content to
accept hunger and poverty and injustice
as their preordained lot. They are in-
creasingly less patient with governments
that fail to produce results quickly. Any
government that ignores this broadening
demand for progress does so at its own
jeopardy.
As a result, new governments have ar-
rived on the scene in many countries with
leaders promising to do more for their
people. Some have achieved power
through the electoral process; others have
seized power. Many members of these
governments are from the military serv-
ices. Styles of operation vary from capital
to capital. In some cases, there is a tend-
ency to seek support by appealing to xeno-
phobic attitudes and adopting anti-Amer-
ican themes. In the long run, however,
performance will count the most in shap-
ing the judgments of the people.
THE U.S. RESPONSE
It would be an error to ignore the role
the United States has played in helping to
encourage Latin America's move toward
greater self-reliance. For from the Rio
Grande to Tierra del Fuego, governments
and peoples have come to recognize that
the days of relying principally on North
America to solve their problems have
ended. We and others can help, of course.
Indeed, some problems can only be solved
with the understanding cooperation of
others. But the solutions will require each
country's own initiative and imagination
and energy. I am convinced that the low-
keyed course we have followed over the
past four years--the avoidance of slogans
and gimmickry, the emphasis on Latin
initiatives has helped in an important
way to provide the basis for a stronger,
healthier, and more realistic relationship
among the members of our hemispheric
community.
Accommodation to the diversity of the
world community is the keystone of our
current policy. That does not diminish our
clearly stated preference for free and
democratic processes and for governments
based thereon. Nor does it weaken our
434
