Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
for the total advancement of African peo-
ples. The specific conditions for private
outside investment, and the degree of local
participation in control and in profits,
should be determined on a fair basis re-
flecting the interdependence of the rela-
tionship. American companies seek no
special privileges, and the United States
seeks no special advantage. Where invest-
ment has been allowed to take root and
flourish, economic performance has been
impressive. This is the clearest demonstra-
tion of a shared interest.
Trade expansion is important to both
Africa and the United States. Our two-
way trade has grown 30 percent in the last
three years, but it is still modest in scale-
only about $3.1 billion in 1972. The U.S.-
sponsored African Trade and Develop-
ment Conference in Washington last
October brought together representatives
of African Governments, our Govern-
ment, and the American business commu-
nity to promote trade with developing
Africa. We have an interest in seeing
U.S.-African trade expand in a balanced
way. Such trade reflects a healthy inter-
dependence which serves the needs both
of African progress and of the American
economy. Our imports from Africa in
1972 rose to $1.6 billion, a 33 percent in-
crease over the previous year. U.S. ex-
ports to Africa, however, declined slightly
in 1972.
The future of our trade with Africa
and our hopes for its expansion will be
affected by still-unresolved problems con-
cerning the international terms of trade.
One issue is that of commodity agree-
ments. Understandably, African nations
heavily dependent on a single crop like
cocoa or coffee are interested in agree-
ments stabilizing the prices of these com-
modities. The United States as a consum-
ing nation, on the other hand, seeking to
control inflation at home, tends to favor
free-market determination of price. This
is a difficult problem involving divergent
interests, and we recognize its vital im-
portance to many African countries. We
are committed to addressing the problem
cooperatively and are prepared for regu-
lar consultation and exchanges of infor-
mation on market conditions.
Another important issue for the United
States is the evolving economic relation-
ship between African nations and the
European Community. The growth of
preferential arrangements discriminating
against competing American products in
both European and African markets is
naturally of concern to the United States.
In this year of important multilateral
trade negotiations, the United States will
work for solutions that serve the long-
term general interest in an open global
system of expanding trade.
The United States has continued to re-
spond to many of Africa's needs with
humanitarian assistance. This is a reflec-
tion of the traditional concern of the
American people. For decades, dedicated
Americans have worked-through pri-
vate and voluntary agencies and public
programs to help Africans combat illit-
eracy, starvation, disease, and the effects
of natural disasters. We can take particu-
lar pride in our contribution to a major
seven-year campaign to control smallpox
throughout Central and West Africa.
Working with the World Health Orga-
nization and twenty African Govern-
ments, we helped virtually to eliminate the
disease from the area. We are continuing
efforts to reduce the prevalence of measles
in the area. In the semi-arid states south
of the Sahara, where another year of in-
adequate rainfall threatened large-scale
31-870 O 75 - 33
-
463
