Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
broadening of diplomatic horizons has
already paid dividends for us both and
represents an enduring asset. Or past dif-
ferences notwithstanding, we have many
positive elements to draw upon the tra-
ditional friendship of our two peoples, the
cultural and scientific contributions we of-
fer one another, the lack of any directly
conflicting interests, and the commonly
shared principles of international rela-
tions expressed in the Shanghai Com-
munique.
This Administration will pursue the
further improvement of relations with the
People's Republic of China with dedica-
tion and care. The same considerations
that prompted us to begin this process
four years ago motivate us now to con-
tinue it. And our guidelines remain con-
stant:
-Our objective is to build a broader
and steadier structure of peace.
-We seek the tangible dividends of a
flourishing relationship between the
Chinese and American peoples.
-Our relations will be based on equal-
ity and reciprocity.
-This process is not directed against
any other country.
-We shall pursue our policy in close
consultation with our friends.
Within this framework we will work in-
creasingly to realize the perspectives that
we and the Chinese envisioned at the close
of the Shanghai Communique:
"The two sides expressed the hope that
the gains achieved during this visit would
open up new prospects for the relations
between the two countries. They believe
that the normalization of relations be-
tween the two countries is not only in the
interest of the Chinese and American
peoples but also contributes to the relaxa-
tion of tension in Asia and the world.”
THE SOVIET UNION
In the week of May 22-29, 1972, the
United States and the Soviet Union took
a decisive turn away from the confronta-
tions of the past quarter-century. We
agreed to limit the growth of strategic
weaponry. We established a set of basic
principles to govern our relations. And
we constructed a framework of agree-
ments leading to more normal bilateral
cooperation.
Each of the accords signed in Moscow
was a significant achievement in itself.
Never before have two adversaries, so
deeply divided by conflicting ideologies
and political rivalries, been able to agree
to limit the armaments on which their
survival depends. Nor has there been, at
any time in the postwar period, a code of
conduct that both sides could accept as
the basis for regulating their competition
and channeling their efforts toward more
constructive endeavors.
But beyond their individual merits, the
summit agreements taken together repre-
sent a major advance toward a goal set
forth at the beginning of this Administra-
tion: to effect a basic change in our rela-
tions with the Soviet Union in the inter-
est of a stable world peace from which
all countries would benefit.
In considering the course of Soviet-
American relations during the past year,
it is important to understand the nature
of the specific agreements, the conditions
that have made these achievements pos-
sible, and what the future may hold.
THE INITIAL APPROACH: 1969-70
Four years ago, our relations with the
Soviet Union and international relations
generally were still dominated by the fears,
365
