[77] Mar. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
some of your husbands and others who
were at the State Department the other
day.
A few nights ago here at a meeting of
more or less political types-by a political
type, that means somebody who thinks
enough of politics to either run or to con-
tribute, and both, of course, at a very great
risk. [Laughter] But whatever the case
might be, as I was speaking to them, I told
them that I thought that because their
wives were also present-as a matter of
fact, I should say it was the Governors
and their wives—and I, of course, paid re-
spect to the Governors, but I thought, as
I considered the role of women in America
today, that the most difficult assignment a
woman could have would be to be mar-
ried to a politician.
I think of my wife and all of the others.
I think back of 27 years and of the hun-
dreds and, yes, thousands of speeches that
I made. I think of the receiving lines go-
ing on and on and on and all of these
meetings that we have attended. But
really, what is beyond the call of duty, I
think of her sitting on the platform with
me, hearing that same speech over and
over again, and acting as if she is hearing
it for the first time. [Laughter]
And this is, of course, true. The polit-
ical wife not only meets people, and she
works hard, and she shows an interest in
what her husband is doing, she gives him
good advice, like "Don't run," and "Do
run." [Laughter]
She, incidentally, told me not to run for
Governor of California, you see. But, as a
matter of fact, as good as that advice was,
if I had not run for Governor of Cali-
fornia, I wouldn't be here now.
So whatever the case might be, coming
now to you, there is perhaps if anything,
one assignment that is more difficult for a
woman than being the wife of a political
figure and that is to be the wife of a
diplomat, a wife of somebody in the For-
eign Service.
I say this based not simply on the trips
we have taken as President, because those
are at such a high level that we don't
really have the contact with the people
in the Foreign Service and their wives that
we would like to have and that we used to
have. But I think back to the time when
I was a freshman Congressman. One of
the most exciting trips I ever took-I
went to Europe in 1947, spent time in the
Embassy in Rome. Jimmy Dunn was the
Ambassador then, and he was kind
enough to have this freshman Congress-
man, along with a few others in the com-
mittee, to dinner, and that was very
impressive.
But I remember, also, a second man
there. His name was Jimmy Jones, and
Jimmy Jones' wife was a lovely person. I
remember that the nights that Ambas-
sador Dunn did not entertain us, then it
was Mr. Jones' job. I didn't realize until
later what a burden that was for him,
how little his representation allowance
was, and I realize that he must have liked
us.
And then I thought, just think of the
Congressmen and the Senators that had
gone through Rome at that time. '47, '48.
that he had to entertain.
Now later on he became an Ambassa-
dor, of course, and that was, I suppose.
some reward.
I think of him. I think of, in 1956 when
I was Vice President, going to, at that
point, the Hungarian border at Andau to
welcome the returning people—those
who were escaping from Communist
188
