[82] Mar. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
satellites to a new experimental space-
craft providing information on our re-
sources and environment. Increasing
practical applications for satellite tech-
nology confirm the immediate value of
our efforts in space, while observatory
satellites and others carrying specialized
scientific instruments provide accurate
and dependable data never before avail-
able to scientists on earth.
The conclusion of the Apollo program
marks only another step in this Nation's
push into space. In the current year, we
expect to launch Skylab, which will per-
mit extended experimentation in a
manned vehicle. After Skylab, a joint mis-
sion by this Nation and the Soviet Union
will rendezvous and dock two spacecraft,
helping to link our two space efforts in a
mutually productive manner. The space
shuttle presently under development will
make the launching of satellites and labo-
ratories less expensive and more produc-
tive. The shuttle will be augmented by the
sortie laboratory which the Western Euro-
pean countries intend to develop as part
of our joint cooperation in space.
The past year has also seen advances
in aeronautical research and develop-
ment. It should be emphasized that work
in this field is particularly vital if America
is to maintain its leadership in the devel-
opment and production of civil and mili-
tary aircraft and engines.
Our efforts in aeronautics and space
will continue through programs balanced
at levels which will allow us to meet de-
mands in these and other important do-
mestic and foreign areas.
The White House,
March 19, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "Aeronautics and Space Report of the
President, 1972 Activities" (Government Print-
ing Office, 99 pp.).
83 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Manpower Report of the
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by section 107 of the Man-
power Development and Training Act
of 1962, as amended, I am sending to the
Congress the fourth Manpower Report of
my Presidency and the final one of my
first Administration.
The report describes the acceleration
of the economic recovery in 1972 and
analyzes the significant decrease in rates of
unemployment that occurred following a
revitalization of labor demand under
Phase II of our Economic Stabilization
Program. Significantly, these overall em-
ployment gains have been achieved in the
face of an unusually rapid expansion of
President. March 20, 1973
the civilian labor force. I am especially
gratified by the evidence that this Ad-
ministration's intensive effort to improve
the employment situation of Vietnam-era
veterans has been increasingly effective in
recent months.
In the course of a decade of experi-
mentation, numerous federally sponsored
manpower programs have been devised
and executed in response to changing per-
ceptions of national requirements. The ex-
perience of these 10 years has demon-
strated conclusively that "national" man-
power issues really have a sharply dif-
ferentiated impact among the many
States and localities and hence that the
214
