[79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
faith by insuring that the law works, that
our system of criminal justice works, and
that "domestic tranquility" is preserved.
I believe we have gone a long way to-
ward erasing the apprehensions of the last
decade. But we must go further if we are
to achieve that peace at home which will
truly complement peace abroad.
In the coming months I will propose
legislation aimed at curbing the manu-
facture and sale of cheap handguns com-
monly known as "Saturday night spe-
cials," I will propose reforms of the Fed-
eral criminal system to provide speedier
and more rational criminal trial pro-
cedures, and I will continue to press for
innovation and improvement in our cor-
rectional systems.
The Federal Government cannot do
everything. Indeed, it is prohibited from
doing everything. But it can do a great
deal. The crime legislation I will submit
to the Congress can give us the tools we
need to do all that we can do. This is
sound, responsible legislation. I am con-
fident that the approval of the American
people for measures of the sort that I have
suggested will be reflected in the actions
of the Congress.
The White House,
March 14, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the last in a series of
six messages to the Congress on the state of
the Union.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the message. Participants in the news brief-
ing were Myles Ambrose, Special Assistant At-
torney General, Office for Drug Abuse Law En-
forcement, and Henry E. Petersen, Assistant
Attorney General, Criminal Division, Depart-
ment of Justice.
80 The President's News Conference of
March 15, 1973
UNITED STATES LIAISON OFFICE IN
PEKING
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, I have an announcement with regard
to our Liaison Office in Peking.
The office will open approximately on
May 1, and Ambassador David Bruce will
be the Chief of the Liaison Office. In the
Office will be approximately a total com-
plement of 20 (30), of whom 10 will be at
what we call the expert level; the others,
of course, for the support level.
The two top assistants, top deputies to
Ambassador Bruce-however, we should
note, I call him Ambassador, but his title
will be Chief of the Liaison Office-will
be Mr. [Alfred le S.] Jenkins from the
State Department, who, as you know, is
one of our top experts on Chinese-
American relations in State; and Mr.
[John H.] Holdridge from the NSC [Na-
tional Security Council], who is the top
man in the NSC advising in this area
there.
We selected these two men because Mr.
Jenkins and Mr. Holdridge not only are
experts in Chinese-they are bilingual,
incidentally, in both Chinese and Ameri-
can; they speak well. In fact, I remember
both assisted in translations when I have
been there. But in addition to that, they
are men who have, from the beginning,
been participating in the new initiative
between the People's Republic and the
United States. They have accompanied
202
