Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
-Our prisoners have returned to their
homes and families. A full account-
ing for all those missing in action is
stipulated.
-There is a ceasefire, though still im-
perfectly observed, in Vietnam and
Laos.
-The South Vietnamese people have
the opportunity to determine their
own political future.
The settlement is a tribute to the brave
people of South Vietnam. It is also
a monument to the valor of American
fighting men and the steadfastness of the
American people who supported an un-
selfish but extremely difficult mission until
that mission was accomplished.
WHAT WE FOUND
From the moment I took office, my
highest priority was to bring an honor-
able end to the war in Vietnam. America
had been involved for eight years in a
well-motivated but costly and seemingly
endless effort. Every year we had sent
more men to Vietnam. Our casualties,
draft calls, and financial costs had risen
steadily. The war dominated our national
attention. Abroad it complicated our ef-
forts to adjust to changing conditions. At
home it fostered growing dissent.
Clearly we needed to end the war, or at
least our involvement in it. But if this
was our most urgent task, it was also our
most difficult. For the way we went about
it would have much to do with the future
of American foreign policy and the future
of our own society.
The costs and frustrations of our in-
volvement had led an increasing number
of Americans to urge extreme solutions—
either massive military escalation or im-
mediate retreat. We rejected both options.
Trying to win the conflict by all-out mili-
tary measures would have deepened the
divisions in our society, and risked draw-
ing other nations into the war. It would
not have addressed the complex nature of
the struggle and therefore was likely to be
indecisive.
Immediate withdrawal from Vietnam
might have brought a sense of temporary
relief in this country. But soon this mood
would have turned to regret and recrimi-
nation. We could not suddenly abandon
allies with whom we had stood for so
many years. We could not mock the sacri-
fices of Americans who had given their
lives. We could not set out to shape a re-
sponsible American foreign policy with a
first step of heedless abdication. Reckless
withdrawal certainly would have brought
neither peace to South Vietnam nor honor
to America. It might have led to the col-
lapse of Southeast Asia, and it would have
crippled our efforts to build peace in the
world.
But neither could we continue on the
path we found. Our troop levels had risen
steadily for five years and had reached an
authorized level of 549,500. Our combat
deaths had mounted to an average of 278
weekly during 1968. We were spending an
additional $22 billion each year on the
war. Draft calls had risen to a monthly
average of 30,000. And despite this in-
vestment, there was no decisive outcome
on the battlefield.
The picture was similarly bleak at the
conference table. As a result of our bomb-
ing halt, public negotiations had been
launched in Paris, but they had proved
sterile. Only procedural matters had been
377
