Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 21 [52]
things I am most proud of during the
time I have served as President, and dur-
ing the three times I have had the great
honor to run for President, is that I have
never divided this country North against
South, East against West, one region
against the other.
I believe this is one country, and let us
all work to make it one country, because
it is one United States of America that
can lead the world to peace, the kind of
peace that all of us want in the years
ahead.
Finally, today, if we are to play the role
that we are destined to play, we need
faith. I think that the faith of all Ameri-
cans was restored by what we have seen
in the past few days as our prisoners of
war came down the ramp of those planes
and set foot for the first time on American
soil, some of them after 6, 7 years of
imprisonment.
You wonder how this Nation, or any
nation, could have brought into life men
who would be so strong, men who could
endure so much. And the important thing
is, as we saw them come down those stairs,
they came down with their heads high,
52 Radio Address About the
Message on the Economy.
Good afternoon:
Tomorrow I will send to the Congress
the economic section of my State of the
Union report.
One fact stands out above all others in
this report: For the first time in nearly
20 years, we can look forward to genuine
prosperity in a time of peace.
For most people, talking about the
economy brings to mind some vast, com-
proud of their country, proud of what they
had done, and that is another reason why
peace
with honor was so vitally important.
Because if this war, long and difficult as
it was, had been ended solely for the basis
of obtaining their release, you can see
that for them it would have been the
greatest disappointment.
I close with a message from one of
them. When he sent this cable to me a few
days ago, he did not know, and could not
have known, that I would be addressing
the South Carolina State Legislature to-
day. The cable was to me, but as you can
see as I read it, it is to all of you as well.
It is from Robert N. Daughtrey, major,
United States Air Force:
"My faith in our fellow Americans
never faltered. Thank you for returning
us with honor. I assure you we returned
filled with pride and faith in the future.
"God bless you. God bless America."
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:46 p.m. at
the State Capitol in Columbia, S.C.
Lt. Gov. Earle E. Morris, Jr., was president
of the South Carolina State Senate, and
Solomon Blatt was speaker of the State House
of Representatives.
State of the Union
February 21, 1973
plicated machine. Today, I want to talk
about the economy in personal terms―
about its impact on you and your family.
Basically the economy affects you in
three ways.
First, it affects your jobs, how plentiful
they are, how secure they are, how good
they are. Second, it affects what you take
home from those jobs and how much
you can buy with your income. And
113
