Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
able. And the tape of March 21, where we
discussed this in great detail, as well as
three other tapes in which Mr. Dean par-
ticipated, three other conversations, are
all available.
But as far as these two tapes are con-
cerned, even though they were not con-
sidered by the Ervin committee to be an
indispensable part of their investigation,
the fact that they were not there was a
great disappointment, and I just wish we
had had a better system--I frankly wish
we hadn't had a system at all, then I
wouldn't have to answer this question.
THE ELLSBERG CASE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, John Dougherty
[Rochester Times-Union]. Did you tell
Mr. Cox to stay out of the Ellsberg case,
and if you did, why, and do you think
that the new Special Prosecutor should be
kept from investigating the Ellsberg case?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never spoken to
Mr. Cox at all; as a matter of fact, how-
ever, I did talk to Mr. Petersen about it,
before Mr. Cox took over.
I told Mr. Petersen that the job that he
had-and I would have said the same
thing to Mr. Cox-was to investigate the
Watergate matter, that national security
matters were not matters that should be
investigated, because there were some very
highly sensitive matters involved, not only
in Ellsberg but also another matter so sen-
sitive that even Senator Ervin and Senator
Baker have decided that they should not
delve further into them.
I don't mean by that that we are going
to throw the cloak of national security
over something because we are guilty of
something. I am simply saying that where
the national security would be disserved
by having an investigation, the President
has the responsibility to protect it, and I
am going to do so.
STATUS OF THE WATERGATE
INVESTIGATION
[5.] Q. Paul Poorman from the Detroit
News. Are you personally satisfied, sir,
that the investigation of the Watergate
matter is complete, to your satisfaction,
and if so, could you tell us what your plans
are to tell the American people about the
facts of the case with regard, again, to
your credibility on this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. First, with regard to
whether the investigation is complete, as
you know, there is now a new Special
Prosecutor, Mr. Jaworski. He is a Demo-
crat. He has always supported the Demo-
cratic ticket. He is a highly respected
lawyer, a former president of the ABA in
the year 1971. I may have met him. I have
never talked to him personally and cer-
tainly have never talked to him about this
matter. I refuse to because I want him to
be completely independent.
He cannot be removed unless there is
a consensus of the top leadership of both
the House and the Senate, Democrat and
Republican: the Speaker and the major-
ity and minority leaders of the House
and the President pro tem, the majority
and minority leaders of the Senate and
the ranking two members of the Judiciary
Committees of both the House and the
Senate, which, incidentally, gives you, as
you can see, a very substantial majority as
far as the Democrats are concerned.
The second point, and the point I am
trying to make is: one, he is qualified; two,
he is independent and will have cooper-
ation; and three, he will not be removed
unless the Congress, particularly the lead-
ers of the Congress and particularly the
951
