[233] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
relate to my own conduct, and which de-
scribes the efforts that I made to discover
the facts about the matter.
On May 22, I stated in very specific
terms-and I state again to every one of
you listening tonight these facts-I had no
prior knowledge of the Watergate break-
in; I neither took part in nor knew about
any of the subsequent coverup activities;
I neither authorized nor encouraged sub-
ordinates to engage in illegal or improper
campaign tactics.
That was and that is the simple truth.
In all of the millions of words of testi-
mony, there is not the slightest suggestion
that I had any knowledge of the plan-
ning for the Watergate break-in. As for
the coverup, my statement has been chal-
lenged by only one of the 35 witnesses who
appeared a witness who offered no evi-
dence beyond his own impressions and
whose testimony has been contradicted
by every other witness in a position to
know the facts.
Tonight, let me explain to you what I
did about Watergate after the break-in
occurred, so that you can better under-
stand the fact that I also had no knowl-
edge of the so-called coverup.
From the time when the break-in oc-
curred, I pressed repeatedly to know the
facts, and particularly whether there was
any involvement of anyone in the White
House. I considered two things essential:
First, that the investigation should be
thorough and aboveboard; and second,
that if there were any higher involvement,
we should get the facts out first. As I said
at my August 29 press conference last year,
"What really hurts in matters of this sort
is not the fact that they occur, because
over-zealous people in campaigns do
things that are wrong. What really hurts
is if you try to cover it up." I believed that
then, and certainly the experience of this
last year has proved that to be true.
I know that the Justice Department
and the FBI were conducting intensive
investigations as I had insisted that they
should. The White House Counsel, John
Dean, was assigned to monitor these in-
vestigations, and particularly to check into
any possible White House involvement.
Throughout the summer of 1972, I con-
tinued to press the question, and I con-
tinued to get the same answer: I was told
again and again that there was no in-
dication that any persons were involved
other than the seven who were known to
have planned and carried out the oper-
ation, and who were subsequently indicted
and convicted.
On September 12 at a meeting that I
held with the Cabinet, the senior White
House Staff and a number of legislative
leaders, Attorney General Kleindienst re-
ported on the investigation. He told us it
had been the most extensive investigation
since the assassination of President Ken-
nedy and that it had established that only
those seven were involved.
On September 15, the day the seven
were indicted, I met with John Dean, the
White House Counsel. He gave me no rea-
son whatever to believe that any others
were guilty; I assumed that the indict-
ments of only the seven by the grand jury
confirmed the reports he had been giving
to that effect throughout the summer.
On February 16, I met with Acting Di-
rector Gray prior to submitting his name
to the Senate for confirmation as perma-
nent Director of the FBI. I stressed to him
that he would be questioned closely about
the FBI's conduct of the Watergate inves-
tigation. I asked him if he still had full
confidence in it. He replied that he did,
that he was proud of its thoroughness and
692
