Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 6 [247]
sembly's endorsement of the reduction of
our United Nations budget assessment
from 31.52 percent to 25 percent. We be-
lieve this to be a healthy development for
the organization, which should not be
unduly dependent on the contributions
of one member. The maximum assessment
ceiling beginning next year is expected to
fulfill the requirement enacted by the
Congress that the United States should
pay no more than 25 percent in the United
Nations and in certain specialized agencies
after January 1, 1974. The vote of over
two-thirds in favor of our position re-
flected a widespread recognition of the
equities involved and of political reality,
as well as concern for the maintenance of
generous United States voluntary contri-
butions to United Nations development
programs.
Following the landmark conference in
Stockholm in June, the institutional foun-
dation was laid for international action
to protect the environment and a work
program was initiated for this purpose.
Measures were taken to deal with en-
vironmental problems such as pollution
from ocean dumping and the preservation
of natural, cultural, and historic heritage
areas, and a United Nations fund for the
environment, which I had recommended
earlier, brought pledges from a number
of nations.
On the other hand, a major setback was
the United Nations failure to take strong
and speedy international legal action to
combat international terrorism and pro-
vide adequate protection for diplomats-
measures advocated by the United States
and other concerned nations. The Assem-
bly did, however, set up a committee to
study the comments of governments on
the problem of international terrorism
and submit a report to the next session.
While we regret the delay, we hope that
the Assembly can make progress on this
issue this fall. Progress was made in the
International Civil Aviation Organization
on the matter of aircraft safety.
The United Nations also advanced its
programs for delivering technical assist-
ance to developing nations and setting
standards for international behavior in
specific fields.
-Management reforms (notably adop-
tion of a country programming system)
were implemented which will enable the
United Nations Development Program to
handle an expanded program of technical
assistance more efficiently.
-The organization's capacity to re-
spond to disaster situations was strength-
ened by the establishment of a United
Nations Disaster Relief Office in Geneva,
largely as the result of a United States
initiative in 1971. The United Nations
carried out an unprecedented number of
relief activities, notably in Bangladesh
and the Sudan.
-There was growing cooperation in
outer space. A United Nations working
group cooperated in making available to
other nations data from our first experi-
mental satellite designed to survey earth
resources, and the Convention on Inter-
national Liability for Damage Caused by
Space Objects, which had been negoti-
ated by a United Nations committee,
entered into force on September 1.
-The momentum of international ac-
tion against drug abuse was furthered in
several ways: with the drafting of an
amending protocol to the 1961 Single
Convention on Narcotic Drugs, through
increased activity by and contributions to
the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse
745
