Richard Nixon, 1973
II
July 11 [199]
And second, he had another qualifica-
tion that in this period when the FBI is
moving more and more into providing
leadership in the field of helping local
law enforcement officials deal with the
problem of crime: He had 12 years of
distinguished service as the chief of po-
lice of Kansas City. And in that respect,
I should point out to you ladies and gen-
tlemen that before the national trend
began to turn downward insofar as street
crime across this country is concerned,
Kansas City led the way with one of the
best records of any major city in the coun-
try, and this man did it.
But there was another quality that I
have learned about this man that perhaps
even is more important than the others.
He is a top-flight professional, but many
of the other candidates were. He is a
top-flight FBI graduate; some of the other
candidates were. But above all, when you
select a man for a top position, you must
feel the person himself—what is his qual-
ity, what is his character-and Chief
Kelley, first, is a fine family man. Second,
he is a man who has a deep faith in his
religion. And third, he is a man of enor-
mous personal strength and character. He
is a good man, and that is the kind of a
man we want in the FBI.
I have often said, and I have visited
most of the countries of the world, that
the best national law enforcement agency
in the world is the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. It is still the best. And sec-
ond, I will say that the best national law
enforcement agency in the world deserves
the best law enforcement officer in the
world as its Director.
Ladies and gentlemen, Chief Kelley is
that man, and he is going to demonstrate
that to the country.
Now a word, if I may, to the people of
Kansas City-this city that is proud of
all its “Chiefs,” ¹ as I know-to the people
of Kansas City, I know that you have
suffered a great loss, but a good man will
take his place. I can only say that Kansas
City's loss is America's gain, and I will
say finally, that a man who has been good
for Kansas City will be very good for
America.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 p.m. in
front of the Federal Building in Kansas City,
Mo.
William Becker, Chief Judge of the United
States District Court for the Western District
of Missouri, administered the oath of office
to Director Kelley.
¹ Kansas City Chiefs professional football
team.
199 Message to the Congress Transmitting the Cost of
Living Council's Quarterly Report on the Economic
Stabilization Program. July 11, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am herewith submitting to the Con-
gress the most recent Quarterly Report of
the Economic Stabilization Program, cov-
ering the period January-March, 1973.
This report indicates that during this
quarter our economy was making strong,
impressive gains. Our national output
grew at an annual rate of $43 billion.
Some 600,000 more men and women ob-
tained jobs. Real per capita disposable
income-what people have left to spend
641
