Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
throughout the summer, the enemy con-
tinued to insist on a comprehensive politi-
cal and military solution along familiar
lines. While there were marginal changes
in their approach, enough to justify con-
tinuing the negotiations, there was no real
progress toward a solution. In the July,
August, and September sessions, their posi-
tions, however modified around the edges,
contained the unacceptable core-imposi-
tion of a coalition government that the
Communists would control.
Until October 1972, therefore, the
basic stumbling block remained North
Vietnam's demand that political victory
be handed to them as a pre-condition for
settling all military questions. In that case,
of course, the latter would become totally
irrelevant since the very issue that the
struggle was all about would have been
settled.
THE OCTOBER BREAKTHROUGH
On October 8, 1972, the North Viet-
namese presented a new plan in Paris ac-
cepting the basic principles of our posi-
tion. It was the essential breakthrough
toward a negotiated settlement. For the
first time, Hanoi agreed, in effect, to
separate military questions from the
principal political issues. They spelled out
specific solutions to the former while the
latter were to follow later and were left
basically up to the South Vietnamese.
Moreover, they dropped their insistent
demand for President Thieu's resignation
and formation of a coalition government.
To be sure, there were major problems
in their plan, and tough negotiations lay
ahead. But, in their own words, the North
Vietnamese had essentially accepted the
approach that I had outlined in my May
8th speech. We could see that, given a
constructive attitude on their part, there
was, at long last, the genuine prospect of
a negotiated peace.
Once this breakthrough was achieved,
we moved decisively and quickly toward
a final settlement. The North Vietnamese
negotiated seriously as well. In areas
where there had never been significant
movement, there was now rapid progress.
Through intensive negotiations from
October 8-12 and on October 17, and
diplomatic communications, we ham-
mered out a basic draft agreement.
Perhaps to catch the South Vietnamese
off balance, perhaps to pin us down to a
settlement before our own elections, the
North Vietnamese insisted on a very short
timetable, with October 31, 1972, the date
for final signature. After refusing to nego-
tiate seriously for three years, the enemy
now demanded that we complete the
negotiations within three weeks of their
proposal. We promised to make a maxi-
mum effort to meet the deadline, subject
to discussions with Saigon and a final
negotiating round to complete the draft.
To prove our serious intentions and to
reflect the progress that was being made,
I ordered suspension of all bombing
above the 20th parallel in North Viet-
nam on October 23, 1972. During this pe-
riod, as a result of several developments
since the October 17 meetings in Paris, we
told the North Vietnamese privately that,
while we stood by the basic draft agree-
ment, we could not meet the October 31
target date.
There were three main reasons we
could not do so:
-During the last half of October, we
received mounting evidence that the
Communists were planning to take
advantage of the ceasefire with mili-
tary offensives. This threw a different
385
