Appendix B
March
16 The President and the First Lady hosted a
breakfast at the White House for members
of the Council of Economic Advisers and
their spouses. The President thanked Ezra
Solomon, who was returning to Stanford
University, for his outstanding service and
also discussed economic matters with the
present Council membership.
16 The White House announced that the first
formal meeting of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint
Commission on Scientific and Technical
Cooperation would be held in Washington,
D.C., on March 19-21. The President
designated H. Guyford Stever, Director of
the National Science Foundation, to replace
Edward E. David, Jr., as U.S. Chairman
of the Commission.
16 The President greeted freshman Republican
Senator Peter V. Domenici of New Mexico
and his family at the White House.
17 In an "Evening at the White House," coun-
try and western music singer Merle Hag-
gard and bluegrass singers Bobby and Sonny
Osborne entertained the President and Mrs.
Nixon and their guests.
19 The President directed the Secretary of
Labor to certify former employees of the
DuBois, Pa., plant of the Airco Electronics
Components Division of Airco, Inc., as
eligible for adjustment assistance under the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
20 The President directed the Secretaries of
Commerce and Labor to certify Arkwright
Mills, Inc., of Spartanburg, S.C., and 350
of its workers as eligible for adjustment
assistance under the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962.
21 James Roosevelt, David Packard, and Rep-
resentative John W. Byrnes, representing
"Citizens for Control of Federal Spending,"
met with the President at the White House.
22 The President greeted members of the sub-
Cabinet and White House Staff who were
attending a briefing on foreign and do-
mestic policy in the Executive Office Build-
ing by William P. Rogers, Secretary of
State, and John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs.
March
22 Dr. Carlos Sanz de Santamaria, who re-
signed as Chairman of the Inter-American
Committee on the Alliance for Progress,
met with the President at the White House.
22 George Bush, chairman of the Republican
National Committee, Senator Bill Brock,
chairman of the Republican Senatorial
Campaign Committee, and Representative
Robert H. Michel, the newly selected chair-
man of the National Republican Congres-
sional Committee, met with the President
at the White House.
22 The President met at the White House with
members of the Commission on Marijuana
and Drug Abuse to thank them for their
work.
22 Mrs. Bruce Bedford, of Lawrenceville, N.J.,
called on the President at the White House.
Mrs. Bedford, who was go, had met nine
Presidents during her lifetime.
22 Representative M. Caldwell Butler of Vir-
ginia called on the President to present 500
letters from the student body of the Hardy
Road Elementary School, Vinton, Va.,
thanking the President for bringing the
prisoners of war home.
22 Representative Jack Edward of Alabama
called on the President at the White House
to present the commemorative medal of the
Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway dedica-
tion. The President had dedicated the
waterway on May 25, 1971.
22 Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met with the President at the White House
to report on his discussions in Europe on
international monetary problems and in
the Soviet Union on trade matters.
26 Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, called
on Mexican President Luis Echeverría Al-
varez in Mexico City to extend President
Nixon's best wishes and personal greetings
and to discuss bilateral matters and hemi-
spheric and world questions.
1070
