[281] Oct. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
mission on Civil Rights, that job has
been unfilled about 8 or 9 months, also.
What are your plans on that?
THE PRESIDENT. The Ambassador to
the Soviet Union is a very important post,
and as a matter of fact, I discussed that
with Dr. Kissinger just yesterday. I think
we will have an announcement on it with-
in the next 2 or 3 weeks.
With regard to the other position, that
is one also that we consider to be very
important, and it is at present being con-
sidered within the Domestic Council. I
am sure a recommendation will be made
to me soon, and we will try to fill it.
The main thing about these appoint-
ments, as I am sure you all know, is to
get the right person, man or woman, for
the job rather than to do it in too much
of a hurry.
SENATOR PERCY AND THE 1976
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
[6.] Mr. Beckman [Aldo B. Beckman,
Chicago Tribune Press Service].
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us if
you will actively oppose Senator Percy's
efforts to win the 1976 Republican nomi-
nation, and if you will not, can you tell us
what has changed since February when
you suggested that you might?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have noted
that particularly in the Chicago papers,
not only the Tribune but the Sun-Times
and the News-and is there another one
there, too?-
Q. Today.
THE PRESIDENT. And Today.
-that there has been much specula-
tion about my meeting with Senator
Percy. It was a very candid discussion.
I did say at one point, due to a misunder-
standing, that I thought that Senator
Percy should not be a candidate in '76, and
as I told him when we met, that statement
was made because I had understood that
he had opposed Elliot Richardson for At-
torney General right after I had an-
nounced that I was sending his name to
the Senate, which I thought was a highly
irresponsible thing to do in view of the
fact that both Elliot Richardson and
Senator Percy are in what we call the
more liberal wing of the Republican
Party.
Senator Percy, however, later explained
that his resolution in that respect, that
would have affected Elliot Richardson,
had been misinterpreted, that he had ac-
tually introduced it prior to the time that
I had made my announcement. Now, so
much for the statement that was made in
February.
Second, to put it all in perspective,
whether it is Senator Percy on the one
side, or one of several Governors or for-
mer Governors who might be a candi-
date, or mayor of Indianapolis, or a num-
ber of Senators and one or two House
Members-all of them have a right to
seek the Presidency if they so desire.
year
As far as I am concerned, I will make
no decision with regard to supporting or
opposing any one of these candidates un-
til they have been tried in the field of bat-
tle. I think that we learned in the
1972 that when an individual moves
from the Senate-and I am referring now
to the primaries-to the big leagues, or
when he moves from the governorship to
the big leagues and we learned this in
other years that sometimes he can't hit
the big league pitching. And I would like
to see how these various potential candi-
dates handle themselves in the primaries
before making any decision with regard
to who should be the candidate.
840
