Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 3 [281]
can economy is highly unpredictable. It
is a free economy.
I have found that my economic ad-
visers are not always right, but they are
always sure in everything that they
recommend.
Now, as far as Mr. Fellner is concerned,
whether the goal should be 4 percent or
5 percent is not really the point. The
main thing is to get unemployment down
as low as we can.
At the present time, this economy is
going at full bore ahead-that is on the
plus side-despite the unacceptable rate
of inflation, and unemployment is, we
trust, going to either stay where it is or
come down.
But I am not going to say that we are
going to abandon IV or go to V or go to
VI. Our goal is to see that every Ameri-
can who wants to work, and who is quali-
fied to work, can get a job. That is one
that we must never give up on, and the
percentages are not the main factor.
JAPAN AND EUROPE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, just a point of
clarification.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. In your discussion of the declara-
tion of principles, there was an intention
to include Japan as well as the European
Communities. Is that still the case or has
that been changed?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me explain what
we feel now with regard to including
Japan.
I have told all of our foreign visitors,
Chancellor Brandt, and of course, Prime
Minister Heath, President Pompidou,
that it is vitally important that Japan-
which is now the second major economic
power in the world and, of course, in
the Pacific, a potential, very great force
for peace and stability—that Japan not be
out of the club.
Now, they all agree. The difficulty is in
writing a declaration with regard to the
Atlantic Alliance which fits Japan; the
difficulty is writing one with regard to the
European Economic Community which
fits Japan.
So, what we are presently thinking of
is three declarations, one for the Atlan-
tic Alliance, one for the Economic Com-
munity, and then a more general declara-
tion to which the Japanese might be will-
ing to adhere.
Now, I have gone beyond what we have
worked out, but that is what we can
expect.
Let me say finally that in that respect,
I know that these declarations may not
seem too important when we consider the
domestic problems that presently obsess
us. But it is essential at a time that we are
having negotiations with the Soviets and
with the People's Republic of China—it is
essential that we breathe new life and new
purpose and new spirit into the American-
Atlantic Alliance and into the free world
community, which includes Japan, and
unless we do so, unless, for example, the
Atlantic Alliance speaks to our times.
rather than to the times 25 years ago, it
is going to fragment. Our European
friends realize this, and I am glad to note
that even the economic experts like Ortoli
recognize it, too.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's thirty-fourth news
conference was held at 11:34 a.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House on Wednes-
day, October 3, 1973.
845
