Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [140]
America, and I look forward to a similar
journey myself during my second term.
We shall do our part with others to re-
duce tensions and increase opportunity
in such areas as the Middle East, South
Asia, and Africa.
We shall continue building new part-
nerships of shared responsibilities with all
our friends around the globe. Approval
of the foreign aid bill which I sent to the
Congress this week will be fundamental
to this effort.
Our policy in the world for the next 4
years can be summarized quite simply:
Where peace is newly planted, we shall
work to make it thrive.
Where bridges have been built, we shall
work to make them stronger.
Where friendships have endured, we
shall work to make them grow.
We shall keep America strong, involved
in the world, meeting the responsibilities
which no other free nation is able to meet
in building a structure of peace.
I said upon taking office more than 4
years ago that a nation could aspire to no
higher honor than the title of peacemaker.
America has done much to earn that title
since then. Let us resolve to do still more
in the years ahead.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President recorded the remarks for
use on radio.
. 140 Message to the Congress Transmitting Fourth Annual
Report on United States Foreign Policy. May 3, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
This Administration attaches funda-
mental importance to the articulation as
well as the execution of foreign policy.
Public understanding is, of course, es-
sential in a democracy. It is all the more
urgent in a fast changing world, which
requires continuing, though redefined,
American leadership. One of my basic
goals is to build a new consensus of sup-
port in the Congress and among the
American people for a responsible foreign
policy for the 1970's.
These were the reasons that I began
the practice of annual Presidential Re-
ports to the Congress. This fourth Review,
like the previous ones, sets forth the philo-
sophical framework of our policy and dis-
cusses major trends and events in this
context. Two other important documents
complement this one with the more de-
tailed record of current questions and
policies. The Secretary of State's third
annual report of April 19, 1973, covers
our specific country, regional, and func-
tional policies and provides basic docu-
mentation. The Secretary of Defense's
yearly report of April 3, 1973, presents a
thorough accounting of our policies and
programs for national defense.
It is my hope that this Report will in-
form and lift the national dialogue on our
purposes and our place in the world.
The White House,
May 3, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President signed the report at a
ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
347
