Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 15 [296]
made it possible for the United States to
end this war and finally to have peace with
honor.
As one of our prisoners of war said when
he returned from Vietnam, you, you and
your colleagues in the Armed Forces of the
United States, made it possible for our
prisoners of war to return to the United
States on their feet rather than on their
knees.
And so you receive a Medal of Honor
today because what you have done is to
help the United States maintain its honor.
Now, I suppose that talking about
honor, as far as a great nation is con-
cerned, would sound somewhat jingoistic.
But I would remind everybody in this
audience, particularly at a time when
there is another war in the Mideast, that
a strong United States, a United States
that is respected, is essential if we are to
have a chance to have a lasting peace in
the world. Because with all of our strength
and with all of the sacrifices that Amer-
icans have made in four wars in this cen-
tury, the United States policy is not one
of aggression, it is not one to dominate
any other country, it is one that seeks
peace for ourselves and for other nations
and, of course, seeks, in addition to that,
a world in which all nations will have the
right to be independent of foreign domi-
nation.
One word, finally, with regard to the
current war which is going on in the Mid-
east. If I were to describe our policy, I
would say that it is like the policy that
we followed in 1958 when Lebanon was
involved, it is like the policy we followed
in 1970 when Jordan was involved. The
policy of the United States in the Mid-
east, very simply stated, is this: We stand
for the right of every nation in the Mid-
east to maintain its independence and
security. We want this fighting to end. We
want the fighting to end on a basis where
we can build a lasting peace.
But the policy of the United States is
that of peacemaker in the area, and I
would conclude by saying that the men
honored today and the thousands of other
Americans who also should be honored,
who served their country in Vietnam,
make it possible for the United States to
play the honored role of peacemaker in
the world.
And now we will go forward with the
citations.
[At this point, Secretary of the Army Howard
H. Callaway, Secretary of the Navy John W.
Warner, and Secretary of the Air Force John L.
McLucas introduced the Medal of Honor win-
ners from their respective services. The texts
of the citations follow:
The President of the United States of
America, authorized by Act of Congress,
March 3, 1863, has awarded in the name of
The Congress the Medal of Honor to
FIRST LIEUTENANT BRIAN M. THACKER
UNITED STATES ARMY
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
First Lieutenant Brian M. Thacker, Field
Artillery, Battery A, 1st Battalion, 92d Artillery,
distinguished himself on March 31, 1971 while
serving as the team leader of an Integrated
Observation System collocated with elements
of two Army of the Republic of Vietnam units
at Fire Base 6 in Kontum Province, Republic
of Vietnam. On that date, a numerically su-
perior North Vietnamese Army force launched
a well-planned, dawn attack on the small, iso-
lated, hilltop fire base. Employing rockets,
grenades, flame throwers, and automatic weap-
ons, the enemy forces penetrated the perimeter
defenses and engaged the defenders in hand-
to-hand combat. Throughout the morning and
early afternoon, Lieutenant Thacker rallied
and encouraged the United States and Repub-
lic of Vietnam soldiers in heroic efforts to re-
871
