Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 27 [276]
We are a long way away from any other part
of the world, and even our nearest neighbors
are quite some distance from New Zealand
shores. We would be, I think, the most re-
mote country in the world. We are also on the
bottom of the world.
And, Mr. President, if I talk about what
small countries can do and should do in the
world, you should remember that we help hold
it up.
But for me it is a great privilege to be here,
and it is a considerable honor to our country
to be received in the way that I have been re-
ceived here today. And I am mindful that it is
now 20 years since you visited New Zealand
and longer since you helped defend it. And the
relationship between our country and the
United States of America is based on some very
important considerations.
And we remember, all of us, the part, the
work, the sacrifices made by United States
servicemen that enabled us to have the future
we have. And in those days and in those years,
a special partnership was forged out of a com-
mon concern and a common danger, and we
have great pleasure each year in welcoming
back to New Zealand people who were sta-
tioned there during that time, who come with
their New Zealand wives, their children, and
now their grandchildren. But it reminds us
that the relationships between countries are not
just matters of treaty or of political relation-
ship; the relationship between the peoples of
the countries helps build a bond that enables
us to work on the things we see differently
and to develop those that we see the same.
And our objectives are precisely those that
have been pursued in this country. We believe
in freedom; we believe in democracy; we
believe that each person should have an equal
opportunity to develop themselves, to partici-
pate in society, to take their place, and to take
it on their own initiative and on their own con-
tribution. And so, we both work for the com-
mon goal of extending the quality of life and
the quality of the societies in which we live.
And we see, perhaps, a little more clearly,
because in a small country there is no question
of imposing your will or dominating or of seek-
ing anything other than a political solution.
More and more we see that while there are
many nations, there is in fact just one human
family, and more and more we are compelled
to consider the fact that though we are one
human family, we work as though we are
several.
And now the opportunities are extended in
the new atmosphere that is being created for all
countries to pursue those avenues and oppor-
tunities with the objective of uniting the human
family in common concern for peace, for pros-
perity, and for the development of their
peoples.
So, since we share these objectives, it is not
surprising that we have welcomed the new
opportunities that a more relaxed, international
atmosphere has brought. And, Mr. President,
the opportunities that your work has helped to
create in Asia and in Southeast Asia is at once
a challenge and a chance, a real chance, to im-
prove relationships to the point where we can
look forward to a long period of stability and
peace in that region.
And for our part, we want to play an effective
role, and we want to develop as an independent
country the initiatives that we believe are right
and proper.
So, sir, to come today and to have the oppor-
tunity to talk with you about these objectives,
about the changing scene in Asia, and about
those things which we can do which help pull
us together in a spirit of cooperation and mutual
respect, has been, indeed, a very important op-
portunity so far as I am concerned. And I am
pleased that one result of the discussions today
was that we were able to meet a very large
measure of agreement about cooperation in
science and technology.
Our problem has been that we have pro-
duced a number of people who have been
talented, but when they reached their maturity,
they go off to work for others. When we see
Americans on the Moon, we know that in New
Zealand they helped put them there-Dr. Wil-
liam Pickering and what we are talking
about is a basis of cooperation that allows scien-
tists and technologists to stimulate each other
with their ideas, to develop new fields, to bring
new benefits that can be employed usefully for
2 Dr. William H. Pickering, who was born in
Wellington, New Zealand, was director of the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory at the California In-
stitute of Technology.
31-870 O- 75-56
831
