Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
-At the outset we took unilateral steps
to induce negotiations, such as the
progressive withdrawal of our troops
and reduction in air sorties in Viet-
nam. Each of our measures was met
by fresh and more stringent demands
by the enemy.
-We also moved publicly to define the
framework for a negotiated settle-
ment, emphasizing the withdrawal of
foreign troops and general principles
to allow the South Vietnamese to de-
termine their own political future.
On May 14, 1969, we proposed a set-
tlement that would remove all out-
side forces from South Vietnam and
establish internationally supervised
elections. On July 11, 1969, the Re-
public of Vietnam offered free elec-
tions to be run by a mixed electoral
commission, in which all parties
could participate. On April 20, 1970,
I spelled out the principles of a
political solution that would reflect
the choice of the South Vietnamese
people and the existing relationship
of political forces within the country.
I pledged that the United States
would abide by the outcome of any
political process chosen by the South
Vietnamese.
-On October 7, 1970, we presented an
overall proposal for a settlement that
looked to the resolution of military
questions and free political choice for
the South Vietnamese. We proposed
an internationally supervised cease-
fire; an Indochina Peace Confer-
ence; the withdrawal of all Ameri-
can forces from South Vietnam; a
political solution based on the prin-
ciples of April 20; and the immediate
unconditional release of all prisoners
of war.
-Throughout this period we inten-
sively pursued secret diplomacy in the
hopes that a private forum might
produce genuine negotiations. Dr.
Kissinger went to Paris regularly to
meet with the North Vietnamese Spe-
cial Advisor Le Duc Tho and Minis-
ter Xuan Thuy.
-In these secret sessions we spelled out
positions that were more detailed and
forthcoming than our public stance,
as we made maximum efforts to make
a breakthrough toward peace. On
May 31, 1971, we offered a special
settlement of military issues alone-
the withdrawal of all U.S. forces in
exchange only for an Indochina
ceasefire and release of all prisoners.
All other questions would be left to
the South Vietnamese.
-The North Vietnamese continued to
insist that political questions also be
included, specifically that a coalition
government dominated by their side
be installed. During the following
months the Communists followed a
particularly cynical negotiating pro-
cedure designed to mislead public
opinion. On June 26, they tabled a
secret nine-point proposal; five days
later, on July 1, the South Viet-
namese Communists made a public
seven-point proposal. Our own sub-
sequent secret positions responded to
both plans. Meanwhile the North
Vietnamese castigated us publicly
for not responding to the seven-point
proposal even though privately they
said we should respond to their nine-
point proposal, and we had done so.
In view of Hanoi's insistence that
political issues be addressed, we
presented during the summer a series
of increasingly generous and com-
31-870 - 75 - 28
383
