(21) Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tional economic progress, as provided for
in this budget, will bring us closer to that
goal for ourselves and for posterity.
MEETING HUMAN NEEDS
The 1974 budget for human resources
programs, like the three that have pre-
ceded it under this Administration,
reflects my conviction that social com-
passion is demonstrated not just by the
commitment of public funds in hope of
meeting a need, but by the tangible bet-
terments those funds produce in the lives
of our people. My drive for basic reforms
that will improve the Federal Govern-
ment's performance will continue in the
coming fiscal year.
Between 1969 and 1974, outlays for
Federal human resources programs have
increased 97, while total budget outlays
have grown by only 46%. As a result,
human resources spending now accounts
for close to half the total budget dollar,
compared with just over one-third of the
total at the time I took office.
Many solid accomplishments have re-
sulted. Higher social security benefits are
bringing greater dignity for the aged and
the disabled. Better health care and better
education and training opportunities,
especially for the disabled, the disadvan-
taged, and veterans, are helping to raise
the social and economic status of millions
of individuals and have improved the
productive capacity of the Nation as a
whole. Expanded food programs are help-
ing to assure adequate nutrition for the
needy.
However, disappointments and failures
have accompanied these accomplish-
ments. The seeds of those failures were
sown in the 1960's when the "do some-
thing, do anything" pressure for Federal
panaceas led to the establishment of scores
of well-intentioned social programs too
often poorly conceived and hastily put
together. In many respects, these were
classic cases of believing that by "throw-
ing money at problems" we could auto-
matically solve them. But with vaguely
defined objectives, incomplete plans of
operation, and no effective means of
evaluation, most of these programs simply
did not do the job.
We gave these programs the benefit of
every doubt and continued them while we
conducted a long-needed, thorough re-
view of all Federal human resources pro-
grams. Based on this review, the 1974
budget proposes to reform those programs
that can be made productive and to ter-
minate those that were poorly conceived,
as well as those that have served their
purpose.
We can and will find better ways to
make the most of our human resources-
through the partnership of a restructured
Federal Government and strong State and
local governments, and with the help of a
socially committed private sector that is
bolstered by a revival of individual initia-
tive and self-reliance among our people.
But only by halting the unproductive pro-
grams here and now can we assure our-
selves of the money needed to pursue those
programs that will get results.
INCOME SECURITY.--Federal income
maintenance programs have expanded
dramatically in the last 4 years. Cash
benefits under the social security system
alone will have grown from $30 billion
in 1970 to $55 billion in 1974. an increase
of 83%. These benefits will account for
about one-fifth of all Federal budget out-
lays. Legislation enacted in calendar year
42
