[330] Nov. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
dispensable role, the difference is that for
the first time in the four wars that have
been fought in the Mideast in the last 25
years, we now have laid the foundation
for the parties involved to negotiate and
to build a permanent peace, because put-
ting it quite directly, ladies and gentle-
men, in this troublespot of the world, one
which has flared into war four different
times, here, as distinguished from Viet-
nam, where none of the great powers
would have become involved because of
Vietnam-it was not that important to
the Soviets or to the Chinese for them to
become involved except in furnishing
supplies-here in the Mideast, the cross-
roads of the world, the oil of the world,
the gateway to Africa, the anchor of
NATO, the entry to the Mediterranean,
here the Mideast is so important that if
the great powers do not find a way to
work together in that area, if they should
come in conflict in that area, the possi-
bility of that being an area where neither
could back down is quite obvious, and that
is why our negotiations with the Soviets
at the highest level have continued and
will continue in this area.
That is why we are working, having ob-
tained the cease-fire, now to take the sec-
ond step to build a permanent peace.
I do not tell you, this audience today,
that 1973 will be the year that the perma-
nent peace was agreed to. It will not be
such a year, because where hatreds go
back over thousands of years, they are not
ended even in thousands of hours, let
alone a thousand days, or whatever the
case might be. But I do know this: 1973,
I trust, I believe, I am confident, will be
the year that will mark the beginning of
a process which will lead to a settlement
which will be a permanent peace, one
where the parties in the area will not
learn to love each other, the hatreds will
not be removed, but where they will
understand that they must learn that
neither side can afford another war, and
that it is to their interests, therefore, to
find a way to have peace in that area.
You see what that means to us, you see
what it means to our European friends
and our friends in Japan who depend on
the war (oil) in the Mideast. You see also
what it means to the cause of world peace,
where the Soviet Union has a vital inter-
est in that area, where the United States
has a vital interest in that area.
This, then, is the major target of a for-
eign policy which has ended the war in
Vietnam, which has developed a new re-
lationship with the two great powers, the
Soviet Union and China, and which now
attempts to find a solution to an age-old
conflict in the Middle East.
Moving from that area to the domestic
front, we have here achieved a goal that I
set when I first came into office in 1969.
When I came into office, I found that
during the entire period of the sixties-
1961, 1962, '63, '64, all through the six-
ties the previous 8 years, the United
States had never had unemployment at a
rate lower than 5 percent, in the 4 percent
range, which most consider to be possibly
acceptable, although we like it as low as
possible, but the United States had never
had unemployment in the 4 percent range
except at the cost of war.
In fact, we had to go back to the year
1955 and '56 when President Eisenhower
was in office to find a period when the
United States had unemployment, or
what we might call a full employment, in
the 4 to 42 percent range, without war.
And now, finally, in this year 1973, as you
will note from the figures that were re-
leased just a few weeks ago, we have
936
