[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
On that trip we opened the door. Dr.
Kissinger held intensive discussions with
Premier Chou En-lai, and agreement was
reached that I would visit the People's
Republic of China. In the brief joint an-
nouncement that I read on July 15 we
stated that "the meeting between the
leaders of China and the United States
is to seek the normalization of relations
between the two countries and also to ex-
change views on questions of concern to
the two sides."
In October, Dr. Kissinger returned to
Peking to discuss the broad agenda for my
visit and settle on the other major ar-
rangements. The groundwork was thus
laid for meetings at the highest levels.
THE JOURNEY TO PEKING
My trip to the People's Republic of
China from February 21 to February 28,
1972 was the watershed in reestablishing
Sino-American relations.
The carefully nurtured preparation
held out the promise of a new direction;
my meetings with Chairman Mao Tse-
tung and Premier Chou En-lai firmly set
our course. The Joint Communique at
the end of my visit established the frame-
work for progress; developments since
then have accelerated the process of
normalization.
Seldom have the leaders of two major
countries met with such an opportunity to
create a totally new relationship. It had
taken two and a half years to cross the gulf
of isolation and reach the summit. At the
same time, the very factors which had
made this journey so complicated offered
unusual opportunities. The absence of
communication, while making initial con-
tact complex to arrange, also gave us a
clean slate to write upon. Factors such
as geography and China's recent concen-
tration on internal matters meant that we
had few bilateral matters of contention,
though we lined up often on different sides
of third country or multilateral problems.
Accordingly, the agenda for our discus-
sions could be general and our dialogue
philosophical to a much greater extent
than is normally possible between nations.
Indeed, it was this context and these pros-
pects that, in our view, called for a sum-
mit meeting. With the Soviet Union a
meeting at the highest levels was required
to give impetus to, and conclude, a broad
range of concrete negotiations. With the
People's Republic of China, on the other
hand, such a meeting was needed to set an
entirely new course. Only through direct
discussions at the highest levels could we
decisively bridge the gulf that had divided
us, conduct discussions on a strategic
plane, and launch a new process with
authority.
The primary objective, then, of my
talks with the Chinese leaders was not the
reaching of concrete agreements but a
sharing of fundamental perspectives on
the world. First, we had to establish a
joint perception of the shape of our fu-
ture relationship and its place in the in-
ternational order. We needed a mutual
assessment of what was involved in the
new process we were undertaking and of
one another's reliability in carrying the
process forward. If we could attain this
type of mutual comprehension, agree-
ments could and would flow naturally.
Last February I described our expecta-
tions as I set out on my journey:
"Both sides can be expected to state
their principles and their views with com-
plete frankness. We will each know clearly
where the other stands on the issues that
divide us. We will look for ways to begin
360
