Richard Nixon, 1973
July 18 [207]
controls, to prevent a substantial rise of
food prices. However, by 1974, we should
be able to achieve a much more moderate
rate of inflation. By that time, the good
feed crops in prospect for this year should
have produced a much larger supply of
food, and total demand should be rising
less rapidly than in 1973.
This more satisfactory situation on the
inflation front will be reached if three
conditions are met:
First, we do not allow the temporary
inflationary forces now confronting us to
generate a new wage-price spiral which
will continue to run after these temporary
forces have passed. To do this we must
hold down the expression of those forces
in prices and wages.
Second, we do not allow the present
controls to damp down 1974 production
excessively, a problem that is most obvi-
ous in the case of meats and poultry.
Third, we do not permit a continuation
or revival of excess demand that will
generate new inflationary forces. That is
why control of the Federal budget is an
essential part of the whole effort.
The steps I am announcing or recom-
mending today are designed to create
these conditions.
THE PHASE IV CONTROLS PROGRAM
Our decisions about the new control
program have been reached after consult-
ing with all sectors of the American
society in over 30 meetings and after
studying hundreds of written communi-
cations. The advice we received was most
helpful, and I want to thank all those who
provided it.
The Cost of Living Council will de-
scribe the Phase IV controls program in
detail in statements and regulations.
These will take effect at various times be-
tween now and September 12. They will
include special regulations dealing with
the petroleum industry, published for
comment. Here I will only review the
general features of the program, to indi-
cate its basic firmness and the efforts that
have been made to assure that production
continues and shortages are avoided.
The controls will be mandatory. The
success of the program, however, will de-
pend upon a high degree of voluntary
compliance. We have had that in the past.
Study of the reports on business behavior
during Phase III shows that voluntary
compliance was almost universal. Never-
theless, the rules we are now proposing
are stricter, and it is only fair to those who
will comply voluntarily to assure that
there is compulsion for the others.
Except for foods, the freeze on prices
will remain in effect until August 12.
However, modifications of the freeze rules
will be made to relieve its most serious
inequities.
The fundamental pricing rule of Phase
IV is that prices are permitted to rise as
much as costs rise, in dollars per unit of
output, without any profit margin on the
additional costs. Cost increases will be
counted from the end of 1972; cost in-
creases which occurred earlier but had not
been reflected in prices may not be passed
on. In addition to the cost rule, there re-
mains the previous limitation on profit
margins.
Large firms, those with annual sales in
excess of $100 million, will be required to
notify the Cost of Living Council of in-
tended price increases and may not put
them into effect for 30 days. During that
period, the Council may deny or suspend
the proposed increase.
The wage standards of Phase II and
649
