Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
unity. And it was the principal means of
forging the common policies that were the
source of Western strength in an era of
tension and confrontation.
When the alliance was created, power
relations, economic factors, and political
conditions were far different than today:
traditional power centers in both Europe
and Asia were greatly weakened, and the
United States and the Soviet Union had
emerged with vastly enhanced strength
and influence as leaders of hostile coali-
tions in Europe. Western Europe looked
to America for protection and for leader-
ship. The alliance came to rely on Ameri-
can prescriptions and became accus-
tomed to ratifying American solutions
to the major military, political, and
economic problems.
When this Administration took office,
a period of transition had begun; new
trends affecting America's relations with
Europe were already evident:
-Western Europe's economic and po-
litical revival coincided with deepen-
ing divisions in the Communist
world. The bipolar confrontation of
the postwar period no longer domi-
nated international relations. Alli-
ance relationships in Europe coex-
isted with increasingly fluid interna-
tional relationships. Both sides of the
Atlantic had to recognize that a new
balance of power in the world would
challenge our unity.
-In Europe, as the military vacuum
was filled by the strength of the At-
lantic coalition, the danger of war
receded. But the altered strategic en-
vironment created totally new prob-
lems of deterrence and defense.
-The European unity forged by the
original six members of the Common
Market made Europe a formidable
economic power. Expansion of the
European Community to include the
United Kingdom, Denmark, and
Ireland added a new political dimen-
sion to economic integration.
In these conditions, America's relations
with the new Europe were bound to
change. In the three fundamental as-
pects-economic, military, and political—
trans-Atlantic relations had come to be
based on different principles that led to
different modes of action:
-In economics, members of the Euro-
pean Community, individually and
collectively, stressed regional auton-
omy, while the United States re-
mained dedicated to the integrity of
an open international system.
-Militarily, unity was the predomi-
nant factor: the NATO allies oper-
ated on the principle of integrated
forces and common strategic plan-
ning. But forces designed when the
United States enjoyed an unqualified
strategic advantage had not been
fully adjusted to the reality of a more
nearly equal strategic balance with
the Soviet Union.
-Politically, the Western Allies shared
abstract goals of détente, but we had
not developed new principles to rec-
oncile national objectives with de-
mands for a unified Western policy.
Now, America and Europe are chal-
lenged to forge a more mature and viable
partnership in which we cooperate:
-in developing a new and more
equitable international
international economic
system that enables the Europeans
to reinforce their unity, yet provides
equitable terms for the United States
to compete in world markets;
-in providing a strong defense with
the forces necessary to carry out a
403
