Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
The ABM treaty allows each side to
have 100 ABM interceptors at each of its
two sites. The two sites must be at least
800 miles apart in order to prevent the
development of a territorial defense. The
treaty contains additional provisions
which effectively prohibit the establish-
ment of a radar base for the defense of
populated areas as well as the attainment
of capabilities to intercept ballistic mis-
siles by conversion of air defense missiles
to anti-ballistic missiles.
The Interim Agreement on offensive
arms is to run for five years, unless re-
placed earlier by a permanent agreement
which is the subject of the current nego-
tiations. This agreement froze the num-
ber of strategic offensive missiles on both
sides at approximately the levels opera-
tional and under construction at the time
of signing. For ICBMs, this is 1,054 for
the United States and 1,618 for the Soviet
Union. Within this overall ceiling, there
is a freeze on the Soviet Union's heavy
ICBM launchers, the weapons most
threatening to our strategic forces. There
is also a prohibition on conversion of light
ICBMs into heavy missiles. These provi-
sions are buttressed by verifiable provi-
sions and agreed criteria; of particular
importance is the prohibition against any
significant enlargement of missile silos.
The submarine limitations are more
complicated. The Soviet Union is re-
stricted to a level of 740 submarine ballis-
tic missile launchers, some of them on an
old type of nuclear submarine. However,
they are permitted to build as many as 62
modern nuclear submarines and 950
SLBM launchers if and only if they
dismantle an equal number of older
ICBMs or older submarine-launched bal-
listic missiles to offset the new construc-
tion. This would mean dismantling 210
older ICBM launchers if the Soviet Union
chooses to build up to the SLBM ceiling.
The United States gave up no active of-
fensive program.
The Significance of the Agreements.
Two questions have been asked concern-
ing these accords.
Do the agreements perpetuate a U.S.
strategic disadvantage? Clearly they do
not. The present situation is, on balance,
advantageous to the United States. The
Interim Agreement perpetuates nothing
that did not already exist and that could
only have grown worse without an agree-
ment. Considering the momentum of the
Soviet ICBM and SLBM programs, the
ceilings in the Interim Agreement will
make major contributions to our national
security, while we proceed with negotia-
tions for a permanent agreement.
Our present strategic military situation
is sound. The United States is not pro-
hibited from continuing current and
planned strategic modernization and re-
placement programs for offensive systems.
The imbalance in the number of missiles
between the United States and the Soviet
Union is only one aspect. There are other
relevant factors such as deployment char-
acteristics and qualitative differences be-
tween their system and ours. For example,
the Soviet Union requires three subma-
rines for every two of ours in order to
keep an equal number on station, though
they are testing longer range missiles that
would ultimately change this ratio.
The quality of the weapons must also
be weighed. We have a major advantage
in nuclear weapons technology and in
warhead accuracy. And with our Multiple
Independently Targetted Reentry Ve-
hicles (MIRVs) we have a 2 to 1 lead in
numbers of warheads. Because of our con-
tinuing programs we will maintain this
31-870 - 75 - 35
495
