[263] Sept. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
263 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Soviet Convention on Matters of Taxation.
September 19, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Convention be-
tween the United States of America and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on
Matters of Taxation, with related letters,
signed at Washington on June 20, 1973-
For the information of the Senate. I
transmit also the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Convention.
The primary purpose of this Conven-
tion is to promote economic and cultural
relations between the two countries by
eliminating tax barriers to the extent pos-
sible. The general content of the Conven-
tion is similar to conventions between the
United States and other countries on the
avoidance of double taxation on income.
However, because of dissimilarities be-
tween the tax systems of the two countries
and the limited experience of each with
the tax system of the other, in this Con-
vention somewhat more emphasis than
usual is given to tax exemptions.
Through its system of exemptions, the
Convention should largely insulate the
entities and citizens of the respective
parties from income tax in the other state.
As with most tax conventions, a principal
benefit is to free to a great extent the com-
panies and persons involved from the com-
pliance and administrative problems of
dealing with a foreign tax system. This, in
turn, can be expected to contribute to the
smooth development of United States-
Soviet Union trade, cooperation, and ex-
changes. I recommend that the Senate
give prompt consideration to the conven-
tion and consent to its ratification.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 19, 1973-
NOTE: The text of the convention and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
ecutive T (93d Cong, 1st sess ).
264 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation
and Outlining Administration Actions To Deal With
Federal Housing Policy.
To the Congress of the United States:
Six months ago, in my State of the
Union Message on Community Develop-
ment, I announced a sweeping study of
Federal housing policy. I said then that
its results would be used in formulating
new Administration recommendations in
this extremely important field.
That study has been completed and
September 19, 1973
my recommendations are ready. In keep-
ing with the breadth of the issues involved
in housing, both the study and my pro-
posals cover a wide spectrum.
Some of the actions discussed in this
message are designed to ease the tight
credit conditions in the current housing
market.
Others are intended to improve pros-
800
