Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 9 [252]
In considering the work before us here
at home, there is a lesson in our achieve-
ments internationally.
We have ended America's longest and
most difficult war. By working together,
we now can build America's longest and
best peace.
This year, for the first time in 12 years,
Americans are not at war anywhere in the
world, and our courageous prisoners of
war have returned to their homes.
This year, for the first time in a genera-
tion, no American is being drafted into
the Armed Forces.
In these past 42 years, we have set the
Nation on a new course internationally,
and we have laid the foundation for a
structure of peace that can last far into
the future.
The particular lesson I would stress to-
day is this: We were able to achieve this
because we sought to turn the world away
from those things that divide it and to
build a new pattern of relationships on
the basis of those things that can unite
nations and peoples whatever their
differences.
By the same token, the time has come
to focus here at home on those great goals
that can unite all Americans, that affect
all Americans, and in which all Americans
have a direct and personal stake.
Today, for example, we face urgent
needs in six major areas that affect all of
the people and in which the Congress has
an opportunity to take actions that will
help all the people.
We all share a common interest in
establishing a stable prosperity without
inflation.
We all share a common interest in
ensuring that the Nation's energy needs
are met.
We all share a common interest in
building better and more livable
communities.
We all share a common interest in mak-
ing full use of our Nation's human re-
sources and ensuring greater opportunity
for all.
We all share a common interest in
combating the scourge of crime and drugs.
We all share a common interest in
maintaining a level of national defense
that will enable us to maintain the peace.
In all of these six areas, as well as in
the other areas of important common
interest which I shall also stress in tomor-
row's message, legislative proposals now
before the Congress can have a significant
impact on the life of each of you.
Of these six major areas, the one that
affects all of us most urgently and most
directly is the Nation's economy.
Our goal is to achieve what America
has not enjoyed since the days of President
Eisenhower-full prosperity, without in-
flation and without war.
We have already made substantial
progress toward this goal, and because of
this progress, the average American fam-
ily today-despite inflation-has a higher
level of real spendable income than ever
before. For the first time in 16 years, un-
employment in peacetime is below 5
percent.
However, we still face a major chal-
lenge. We must check the rise in prices.
We must move on four fronts at once
if we are to win the battle against inflation.
We must expand production. We must
exercise monetary restraint. For as long
as controls are necessary, we must make
sure they are effective.
We are doing all these things. The
tough new Phase IV controls come into
757
