Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 7 [323]
7 days as most other people in the world
will consume in an entire year. We have
only 6 percent of the world's people in
America, but we consume over 30 percent
of all the energy in the world.
Now, our growing demands have
bumped up against the limits of available
supply, and until we provide new sources
of energy for tomorrow, we must be
pared to tighten our belts today.
pre-
Let me turn now to our long-range
plans.
While a resolution of the immediate
crisis is our highest priority, we must also
act now to prevent a recurrence of such a
crisis in the future. This is a matter of bi-
partisan concern. It is going to require a
bipartisan response.
Two years ago, in the first energy mes-
sage any President has ever sent to the
Congress, I called attention to our urgent
energy problem. Last April, this year, I
reaffirmed to the Congress the magnitude
of that problem, and I called for action
on seven major legislative initiatives.
Again in June, I called for action. I have
done so frequently since then.
But thus far, not one major energy
bill
that I have asked for has been enacted.
I realize that the Congress has been dis-
tracted in this period by other matters.
But the time has now come for the Con-
gress to get on with this urgent business—
providing the legislation that will meet
not only the current crisis but also the
long-range challenge that we face.
Our failure to act now on our long-
term energy problems could seriously en-
danger the capacity of our farms and of
our factories to employ Americans at rec-
ord-breaking rates-nearly 86 million
people are now at work in this country-
and to provide the highest standard of liv-
ing we or any other nation has ever known
in history.
It could reduce the capacity of our
farmers to provide the food we need. It
could jeopardize our entire transportation
system. It could seriously weaken the
ability of America to continue to give the
leadership which only we can provide to
keep the peace that we have won at such
great cost for thousands of our finest young
Americans.
That is why it is time to act now on
vital energy legislation that will affect our
daily lives, not just this year, but for years
to come.
We must have the legislation now which
will authorize construction of the Alaska
pipeline-legislation which is not bur-
dened with irrelevant and unnecessary
provisions.
We must have legislative authority to
encourage production of our vast quan-
tities of natural gas, one of the cleanest
and best sources of energy.
We must have the legal ability to set
reasonable standards for the surface min-
ing of coal.
And we must have the organizational
structures to meet and administer our
energy programs.
And therefore, tonight, as I did this
morning in meeting with the Congres-
sional leaders, I again urge the Congress
to give its attention to the initiatives I rec-
ommended 6 months ago to meet these
needs that I have described.
Finally, I have stressed repeatedly the
necessity of increasing our energy research
and development efforts. Last June, I an-
nounced a 5-year, $10 billion program to
develop better ways of using energy and
to explore and develop new energy sources.
Last month, I announced plans for an
919
