[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
nated front, with mutually reinforcing
policies for each challenge we faced.
Peace could not depend solely on the
uneasy equilibrium between two nuclear
giants. We had a responsibility to work
for positive relations with the Soviet
Union. But there was ample proof that
assertions of good will or transitory
changes in climate would not erase the
hard realities of ideological opposition,
geopolitical rivalry, competing alliances,
or military competition. We were deter-
mined not to lurch along-with isolated
agreements vulnerable to sudden shifts of
course in political relations, with peaks
and valleys based on atmosphere, with
incessant tension and maneuvering. We
saw as well that there were certain mutual
interests that we could build upon. As
the two powers capable of global destruc-
tion, we had a common stake in pre-
serving peace.
Thus we decided to follow certain prin-
ciples in our policy toward the Soviet
Union. We would engage in concrete ne-
gotiations designed to produce specific
agreements, both where differences ex-
isted and where cooperation was possible.
We would work with Moscow across a
broad front, believing that progress in
one area would induce progress in others.
Through the gathering momentum of in-
dividual accords we would seek to create
vested interests on both sides in restraint
and the strengthening of peace. But this
process would require a reduction in tacti-
cal maneuvering at each other's expense
in favor of our shared interest in avoiding
calamitous collision, in profiting from co-
operation, and in building a more stable
world.
Peace could not exclude a fourth of
humanity. The longer-term prospects for
peace required a new relationship with
the People's Republic of China. Only if
China's weight was reflected in the in-
ternational system would it have the in-
centive, and sense of shared responsibility,
to maintain the peace. Futhermore, the
time was past when one nation could
claim to speak for a bloc of states; we
would deal with countries on the basis of
their actions, not abstract ideological
formulas. Our own policies could be more
flexible if we did not assume the per-
manent enmity of China. The United
States had a traditional interest in an inde-
pendent and peaceful China. We seemed
to have no fundamental interests that
need collide in the longer sweep of his-
tory. There was, indeed, rich potential
benefit for our two peoples in a more
normal relationship.
So we launched a careful process of
private diplomacy and public steps to
engage the People's Republic of China
with us and involve it more fully in the
world. We did so, confident that a strong,
independent China was in our national
interest; resolved that such a process need
not-and would not be aimed at any
other country; and looking for a recip-
rocal attitude on the part of the Chinese.
Peace must draw upon the vitality of
our friends. Our alliances with Western
Europe and Japan would continue as
major pillars of our foreign policy, but
they had not kept pace with the changed
international environment. We thus
sought to forge more equal partnerships
based on a more balanced contribution of
both resources and plans.
America had been the automatic source
of political leadership and economic
power. Now we needed new modes of
action that would accommodate our part-
ners' new dynamism. The challenge was
to reconcile traditional unity with new
352
