[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion for us-least of all the Federal in the new day of peace that is dawning.
Government.
If we shirk our individual responsi-
bility, the American dream will never be
more than a dream.
But if the people say yes to this chal-
lenge, if government says yes to the peo-
ple-and if all of us in Washington say
no to petty quarrels and partisanship and
yes to our public trust-then we can truly
bring that dream to life for all Americans
The White House,
March 1, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the fourth in a series
of six messages to the Congress on the state of
the Union.
On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
message by Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare Caspar W. Weinberger.
62 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Golda Meir
of Israel. March 1, 1973
Madam Prime Minister and our distin-
guished guests:
As I am sure you have noted, the tables
are rather crowded tonight, and I can let
you in on a little secret about how White
House invitations are issued and what
happens on an occasion like this.
Normally invitations go out, as you
know, about 3 to 4 weeks in advance, and
because we want to be sure that for our
distinguished guests we have all of the
places filled, we usually send 20 more in-
vitations than the 110 that this room will
seat, and always the cancellations make it
possible not only for us to have not just
the 110 that the room will seat, but we
can add a few more at the last minute.
This time, all 120 accepted and invited
a few friends.
I don't know of a dinner we have had,
Madam Prime Minister, in this house
since we have had the honor of being here,
in which more people wanted to come and
in which we could make fewer friends and
more enemies than we did by inviting the
group that we have here. But this company
is one that is very distinguished. It rep-
resents our Government, our Congress; it
represents also this whole Nation.
As you noted, they came from Los An-
geles, San Francisco, New York, the
South, the North, the East, and the West.
And that tells us something. It tells us
about the respect and the admiration they
have for your country, for you, personally,
and for your people.
Before proposing the formal toast to
you, I think it is only appropriate on this
occasion to say a word about one who has
served your country so well and the cause
of good relations between our two coun-
tries so well.
Ambassador [Yitzhak] Rabin came to
Washington as Ambassador 4 years ago as
one of the most respected military leaders
in the world. He leaves Washington on his
51st birthday, which is tonight, as one of
the most respected and able ambassadors
ever to serve in the Washington Capital—
as a matter of fact, if you want to give
up your citizenship, we have a job for
you.
And now, to our distinguished guest,
there is so little we can say to this audience
made up of her friends and her admirers.
I can, however, speak for all of us by say-
ing that we appreciate what she has done
148
