Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 14 [79]
the entirely justified feeling of the pro-
spective criminal that he will not suffer
for his deed which, in the present cir-
cumstances, helps allow those deeds to
take place.
Federal crimes are rarely "crimes of
passion." Airplane hi-jacking is not done
in a blind rage; it has to be carefully
planned. The use of incendiary devices
and bombs is not a crime of passion, nor
is kidnapping; all these must be thought
out in advance. At present those who plan
these crimes do not have to include in
their deliberations the possibility that they
will be put to death for their deeds. I
believe that in making their plans, they
should have to consider the fact that if a
death results from their crime, they too
may die.
Under those conditions, I am confident
that the death penalty can be a valuable
deterrent. By making the death penalty
available, we will provide Federal enforce-
ment authorities with additional leverage
to dissuade those individuals who may
commit a Federal crime from taking the
lives of others in the course of committing
that crime.
Hard experience has taught us that with
due regard for the rights of all-including
the right to life itself—we must return
to a greater concern with protecting those
who might otherwise be the innocent vic-
tims of violent crime than with protecting
those who have committed those crimes.
The society which fails to recognize this
as a reasonable ordering of its priorities
must inevitably find itself, in time, at the
mercy of criminals.
America was heading in that direction
in the last decade, and I believe that we
must not risk returning to it again. Ac-
cordingly, I am proposing the re-institu-
tion of the death penalty for war-related
treason, sabotage, and espionage, and for
all specifically enumerated crimes under
Federal jurisdiction from which death
results.
The Department of Justice has exam-
ined the constitutionality of the death
penalty in the light of the Supreme Court's
recent decision in Furman v. Georgia. It
is the Department's opinion that Furman
holds unconstitutional the imposition of
the death penalty only insofar as it is
applied arbitrarily and capriciously. I be-
lieve the best way to accommodate the
reservations of the Court is to authorize
the automatic imposition of the death pen-
alty where it is warranted.
Under the proposal drafted by the De-
partment of Justice, a hearing would be
required after the trial for the purpose
of determining the existence or nonexist-
ence of certain rational standards which
delineate aggravating factors or mitigating
factors.
Among those mitigating factors which
would preclude the imposition of a death
sentence are the youth of the defendant,
his or her mental capacity, or the fact that
the crime was committed under duress.
Aggravating factors include the creation
of a grave risk of danger to the national
security, or to the life of another person,
or the killing of another person during
the commission of one of a circumscribed
list of serious offenses, such as treason,
kidnapping, or aircraft piracy.
The hearing would be held before the
judge who presided at the trial and before
either the same jury, or, if circumstances
require, a jury specially impaneled. Im-
position of the death penalty by the judge
would be mandatory if the jury returns a
special verdict finding the existence of one
or more aggravating factors and the ab-
sence of any mitigating factor. The death
197
