[185] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
and have signed an agreement to this
effect. In so doing, they are convinced
that the benefits from further develop-
ment of cooperation in the field of ocean-
ography will accrue not only bilaterally
but also to all peoples of the world. A
US-USSR Joint Committee on Coopera-
tion in World Ocean Studies will be estab-
lished to coordinate the implementation
of cooperative programs.
TRANSPORTATION
The two Sides agreed that there are op-
portunities for cooperation between the
USA and the USSR in the solution of
problems in the field of transportation.
To permit expanded, mutually beneficial
cooperation in this field, the two Sides
concluded an agreement on this subject."
The USA and the USSR further agreed
that a Joint Committee on Cooperation
in Transportation would be established.
CONTACTS, EXCHANGES AND COOPERATION
Recognizing the general expansion of
US-USSR bilateral relations and, in par-
ticular, the growing number of exchanges
in the fields of science, technology, edu-
cation and culture, and in other fields of
mutual interest, the two Sides agreed to
broaden the scope of these activities under
a new General Agreement on Contacts,
Exchanges, and Cooperation, with a
duration of six years.10 The two Sides
The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 793).
The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 794).
"The text of the agreement is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 796).
agreed to this in the mutual belief that it
will further promote better understanding
between the peoples of the United States
and the Soviet Union and will help to
improve the general state of relations be-
tween the two countries.
Both Sides believe that the talks at the
highest level, which were held in a frank
and constructive spirit, were very valuable
and made an important contribution to
developing mutually advantageous rela-
tions between the USA and the USSR. In
the view of both Sides, these talks will
have a favorable impact on internationa!
relations.
They noted that the success of the dis-
cussions in the United States was facili-
tated by the continuing consultation and
contacts as agreed in May 1972. They re-
affirmed that the practice of consultation
should continue. They agreed that further
meetings at the highest level should be
held regularly.
Having expressed his appreciation to
President Nixon for the hospitality ex-
tended during the visit to the United
States, General Secretary Brezhnev in-
vited the President to visit the USSR in
1974. The invitation was accepted.
RICHARD NIXON
June 24, 1973
President of the United States of
America
L. I. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the Central Com-
mittee, CPSU
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was
released at San Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the joint
communique by Dr Kissinger. The briefing is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presiden-
tial Documents (vol. 9, p. 848).
During General Secretary Brezhnev's visit
618
