Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
our allies to stand on their own and
could gain the support of the Ameri-
can people for a continuing role until
our allies were ready.
The tangible progress of Vietnamiza-
tion was reflected in the statistics. In four
years, we progressively reduced our
presence from more than half a million
men to 27,000, a 95 percent cut, by De-
cember 1, 1972. Other allied forces from
Korea, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand,
and the Philippines were withdrawn or
phased down during the period. American
casualties in South Vietnam fell from al-
most 300 a week when we took office to 26
a week in 1971, and to four a week during
the final six months of our involvement.
Over 60 percent of the casualties under
this Administration occurred in 1969 be-
fore our policies could take hold. We re-
duced the cost of the war by billions of
dollars each year.
During this period, the South Viet-
namese progressively took over the battle.
Our ground combat role was steadily re-
duced and officially ended on June 30,
1972. Our friends also assumed all naval
missions and an increasing share of direct
air support. The South Vietnamese armed
forces and people shouldered the burdens
with courage and skill. And all the other
crucial indicators of the struggle stayed
promising also the security situation in
the countryside, the performance of the
economy, and the cohesiveness of the
political fabric.
THE NEED FOR DECISIVE ACTION
During this process, firm but measured
military actions were also required:
-To protect our men in Vietnam as
their numbers declined.
-To assure the continued success of
Vietnamization and thus reduce our
presence, our casualties, and our
costs.
-To demonstrate that the enemy could
not wage war on South Vietnam with
impunity while using the rest of Indo-
china as a base area and stalling us at
the conference table.
The North Vietnamese stepped up their
pressure during the first months of each
year, after building up their potential
during the dry season. In 1969 shortly
after we took office, they increased their
attacks in South Vietnam. In 1970, they
launched major attacks in Cambodia, at-
tempting to link up their base areas into
one continuous band. In 1971 they staged
a major buildup in southern Laos.
These operations threatened American
and allied forces. Beyond that, they chal-
lenged the whole Vietnamization pro-
gram. The Communists were intent on ex-
panding their base areas bordering South
Vietnam, strengthening their logistics net-
work, and linking up conventional and
guerrilla forces for future assaults.
Our basic strategy was to blunt the
threat to our men, meet the challenge to
our program, and buy the time needed to
make our ally self-sufficient. Our actions
were defensive and limited in both dura-
tion and scope. In 1970 there were joint
U.S.-South Vietnamese operations against
the North Vietnamese base areas in Cam-
bodia. In 1971 the South Vietnamese,
with our support, attacked the enemy base
areas in Laos.
These actions achieved the objectives
we set. In the months following each ac-
tion, our troop levels and casualties
showed a marked decline while South
Vietnam's security situation and self-con-
fidence improved.
Each of these phases in turn demon-
379
