Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 12 [39]
38 Statement on the Return of the First Group of
American Prisoners of War From Southeast Asia.
February 11, 1973
AS THE first group of Americans held
as prisoners of war in Vietnam arrives
home, the whole Nation would like to be
there to welcome them back to the country
they have served so well.
Let us remember, however, that this
moment belongs above all to the return-
ing men themselves and to the families
waiting to welcome them. We can join
most fittingly in that welcome not with
fanfare, but with quiet respect for their
fortitude in the ordeal that is now ending
and for their privacy in the time ahead.
On the Veterans Administration Build-
ing in Washington are the words of Abra-
ham Lincoln, whose birthday we are about
to observe, reminding us of our obligation
"to care for him who shall have borne
the battle." Let us mark this special Sun-
day with a prayer of thanks for all who
have borne this battle-and have made
peace with honor possible. And let us re-
solve anew to be worthy of the sacrifices
they have made.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On February 14, 1973, the President met
with Adm. Thomas H. Moorer, USN, Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in the Presi-
dent's office in the Executive Office Building,
to ask for recommendations on job opportuni-
ties for returning prisoners of war in the context
of the long-range Jobs for Veterans program.
39 Remarks at the Swearing In of Caspar W. Weinberger
as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
February 12, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
As you are aware, we are now swearing
in Caspar Weinberger as Secretary of
HEW. I suppose that to an extent he
must feel somewhat discriminated against
because he is the last of the Cabinet offi-
cers to be sworn in and confirmed.
I think, on the other hand, all of us who
have known him here in California-Gov-
ernor Reagan for whom he worked as the
State finance director, the budget man,
I should say and all of those who have
worked with him in the State Legislature
as Judge Caldecott has, as has Bob Finch,
and all of those who have worked with
him in the Government in Washington
when he was Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, we can say that
the fact that he is the last to be confirmed
does not mean he may not be the first in
terms of his overall capacity to handle
one of the most important assignments in
Washington.
He is a man of great intelligence. He is
a man of great compassion. He is a man
also who is organized in terms that he
has demonstrated his capacity as Director
of the Office of Management and Budget.
He believes in solving problems. He does
not believe in wasting money in solving
problems. But above everything else, he is
one who, whether it is in the field of
health or education or welfare, does not
want to just leave the problems unsolved.
87
