(142) May 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
continuing commitment of this Adminis-
tration to improving the lives of all our
elderly citizens.
NOTE: As enacted. S 50, approved May 3.
1973, is Public Law 93 29 87 Stat 30
The statement was released at Key Biscayne,
Fla.
143 Statement About the Report of the Presidential Study
Commission on International Radio Broadcasting.
May 7, 1973
FOR MILLIONS of listeners on the Eu-
ropean Continent, Radio Free Europe and
Radio Liberty are sources of reliable, com-
prehensive information. They make avail-
able a broad range of news and news
analysis which we in the West take so
much for granted that we sometimes for-
get that such information is denied to
others.
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty
are not spokesmen for American official
policy—a broadcasting job that belongs to
the Voice of America. Rather, they are
highly professional media of news and
news analysis, functioning as a kind of
substitute free press for a crucial part of
the world.
Today I am making public the report
of the Presidential Study Commission on
International Radio Broadcasting. It is a
thorough and thoughtful statement con-
cerning the need to maintain and
strengthen the free flow of information
among nations and the unique role that
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty
play in that process. It also contains con-
structive and detailed recommendations
on ways that support for the radio stations
should be organized and financed for the
future.
I shall soon send to the Congress legis-
lative proposals for continuing Federal
financial support for the two stations.
I endorse wholeheartedly the conclu-
sion of the Commission that these voices
of free information and ideas serve our
national interest and merit the full sup-
port of the Congress and the American
people. As I have said before, the free
flow of information and of ideas among
nations is a vital element in normal re-
lations between East and West and con-
tributes to an enduring structure of peace.
To the Chairman of the Commission,
Dr. Milton Eisenhower, and to the other
members--Mr. Edward Ware Barrett,
Ambassador John A. Gronouski, Ambas-
sador Edmund A. Gullion, and Dr. John
P. Roche-I express my deep appreciation
for their report.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis
cayne, Fla.
The report is entitled "The Right To
Know Report of the Presidential Study Com-
mission on International Radio Broadcasting"
(Government Printing Office, 91 pp.).
520
