Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 23 [11]
great Nation.
Yet Lyndon Johnson's legacy extends
far beyond his years in the Congress. He
was a man of fierce devotion and love.
He was devoted to his family. He was
devoted to the cause of freedom and
equality for his fellow man. And as Presi-
dent, he was devoted in a very special way
to the land he loved.
The whole story of the Johnson years
in the White House remains to be told,
and history has yet to make its judgment.
But millions of Americans will always
remember a bitter day in November, 1963,
when so many of our people doubted the
very future of this Republic, when so
many were stunned at the very idea that
an American Chief of State could be
assassinated in this age, and so many
abroad were fearful about the future
course of the American democracy. And
Lyndon Johnson rose above the doubt and
the fear to hold this Nation on course
until we rediscovered our faith in our-
selves.
If he had done no more, his place in
history would have been assured. But he
did much more, and his role then was not
a high-water mark but a hallmark. For it
was his noble and difficult destiny to lead
America through a long, dark night of
necessity at home and abroad. He had
the courage to do what many of his con-
temporaries condemned him for, but
what will surely win warm praise in the
history books of tomorrow.
The White House,
January 23, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
I I
Proclamation 4180, Announcing the Death of
Lyndon Baines Johnson. January 23, 1973
By the President of the United States of
America a Proclamation
To the People of the United States:
It is my sad duty to announce officially
the death of Lyndon Baines Johnson, the
thirty-sixth President of the United
States, on January 22, 1973.
President Johnson served his country for
more than thirty years as Congressman,
Senator, Vice President and President.
Yet it can be said of Lyndon John-
son that he served his country all his life,
for his was a complete and wholehearted
love of our Nation. From his early days as
a teacher, to his last days as a distinguished
elder statesman, he did his best to make
the promise and the wonder of America
become as real in the lives of all his coun-
trymen as it was in his own.
He once said that he was a free man,
an American, a United States Senator,
and a Democrat, in that order. He was
also a great patriot.
Although he will no longer walk among
us, Lyndon Johnson's influence on our
times, which often seemed so much larger
than life, cannot be stolen from us by
death. Not only the things that he did,
but also the spirit with which he did
them, will be remembered long after time
heals our sorrow at his leaving.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of America,
in tribute to the memory of President
Johnson, and as an expression of public
17
