Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141].
frontation and, occasionally, crisis. The
basic pattern was a tense jockeying for
tactical advantage around the globe.
This was dangerous and unsatisfactory.
The threat of a major conflict between us
hung over the world. This in turn exacer-
bated local and regional tensions. And our
two countries not only risked collision but
were constrained from working positively
on common problems.
The weight of China rested outside the
international framework. This was due
partly to its own attitude and its preoccu-
pation with internal problems, and partly
to the policies of the outside world, most
importantly the United States. In any
event, this Administration inherited two
decades of mutual estrangement and
hostility. Here the problem was not one of
a fluctuating relationship but rather of
having no relationship at all. The People's
Republic of China was separated not only
from us but essentially from the world as
a whole.
China also exemplified the great
changes that had occurred in the Com-
munist world. For years our guiding
principle was containment of what we
considered a monolithic challenge. In the
1960's the forces of nationalism dissolved
Communist unity into divergent centers of
power and doctrine, and our foreign pol-
icy began to differentiate among the Com-
munist capitals. But this process could not
be truly effective so long as we were cut
off from one-quarter of the globe's people.
China in turn was emerging from its
isolation and might be more receptive to
overtures from foreign countries.
The gulf between China and the world
distorted the international landscape. We
could not effectively reduce tensions in
Asia without talking to Peking. China's
isolation compounded its own sense of in-
security. There could not be a stable world
order with a major power remaining out-
side and hostile to it.
Our principal alliances with Western
Europe and Japan needed adjustment.
After the devastation of the Second World
War we had helped allies and former
adversaries alike. Fueled by our assistance
and secure behind our military shield,
they regained their economic vigor and
political confidence.
Throughout the postwar period our
bonds with Europe had rested on Amer-
ican prescriptions as well as resources. We
provided much of the leadership and
planning for common defense. We took
the diplomatic lead. The dollar was un-
challenged. But by the time this Admin-
istration took office, the tide was flowing
toward greater economic and political
assertiveness by our allies. European unity
which we had always encouraged, was
raising new issues in Atlantic relations.
The economic revival of Europe was
straining the Atlantic monetary and com-
mercial framework. The relaxation of
tensions with the Communist world was
generating new doctrines of defense and
diplomacy.
The imperatives of change were
equally evident in our Pacific partner-
ship with Japan. Its recovery of strength
and self-assurance carried political and
psychological implications for our rela-
tionship. Its spectacular economic growth
had made it the world's third industrial
power; our entire economic relationship
was undergoing transformation. The
earlier paternalism of U.S.-Japanese re-
lations no longer suited either partner.
The Vietnam war dominated our at-
tention and was sapping our self-
confidence. Our role and our costs had
steadily grown without decisive impact
349
