Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 3 [320]
the announcement and then will be pre-
pared to answer any questions you ladies
and gentlemen may have with regard to
the Special Prosecutor and his activities
in the future.
This matter we have already discussed
with various Congressional leaders and,
of course, discussed it this morning with
the Republican Congressional leaders in
our regular leaders meeting, and they
generally felt that the selection which Mr.
Bork will announce is one that is perhaps
the best we could get for this very impor-
tant position.
And so, Mr. Saxbe, Senator Saxbe, who
shortly we hope we will call Mr. Attorney
General, you will have an opportunity to
speak to the members of the press here at
the White House now, and when you fin-
ish your statement, Bob, if you will then
make your announcement with regard to
the Special Prosecutor and take any ques-
tions that the ladies and gentlemen may
have on that, I would appreciate that.
Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL-DESIGNATE SAXBE.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
Attorney General-designate Saxbe spoke
briefly in response to the President's remarks.
His remarks, released with the President's, and
an announcement containing additional bio-
graphical data are printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 9, pp.
1301, 1302).
Following Senator Saxbe's remarks, Acting
Attorney General Robert H. Bork announced
his appointment of Leon Jaworski as Director
of the Office of Watergate Special Prosecution
Force and took questions from reporters. His
announcement is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p.
1303). Biographical data on Mr. Jaworski was
also released.
320 Statement on Signing the Amtrak Improvement Act
of 1973. November 3, 1973
THREE years ago this week I signed into
law the Rail Passenger Service Act of
1970, making the Federal Government a
supporting partner with our Nation's
passenger railroads in the effort to main-
tain nationally available, high-quality,
economically competitive intercity rail
passenger service in this country.
Emerging trends and international
events since that time have increasingly
dramatized two additional dimensions of
the national interest in enabling—and in-
deed encouraging our people to choose
a train when they make travel plans.
Those dimensions are energy conserva-
tion and protection of our environment.
Railroads can carry more passengers over
greater distances per gallon of fuel than
automobiles or airlines are able to do,
while adding fewer pollutants to our air.
With our oil resources becoming increas-
ingly precious, not just this winter but
for some years ahead, the energy effi-
ciency of rail travel is an especially com-
pelling argument for expansion of appro-
priate Federal assistance to Amtrak, the
rail passenger corporation.
It is with these concerns in mind that
I have today signed S. 2016, the Amtrak
Improvement Act of 1973, despite my res-
ervations about several aspects of this
bill.
S. 2016 provides for increased Federal
financial aid to Amtrak during the cur-
913
