[247] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Control, and through a more active role
by the International Narcotics Control
Board.
--The population program was placed
on a sounder administrative footing by
linking the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities to the United Na-
tions Development Program. Preparations
were continued for the World Population
Conference in 1974, which is expected to
be as important as the 1972 environment
conference.
-Perhaps of the greatest potential sig-
nificance were the steps taken to acceler-
ate preparations for the Law of the Sea
Conference, which will come to grips with
such matters as the nature of the inter-
national regime for the deep seabed, the
breadth of the territorial sea, free transit
through international straits, fisheries,
marine pollution, and scientific research.
A successful resolution of these very diffi-
cult issues would help to prevent conflict
and assure that the resources in and under
the oceans will be equitably and ration-
ally utilized.
The "quiet side" of the United Nations
also produced important accomplish-
ments which are covered in this report.
Especially noteworthy were the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency's expanded
"safeguards" program to prevent the di-
version to weapons use of nuclear mate-
rials intended for peaceful uses: the
Inter-Governmental Maritime Consulta-
tive Organization's efforts at spurring
agreement to control pollution from ocean
dumping: the International Civil Avia-
tion Organization's efforts to devise effec-
tive measures for safe and efficient air
travel; the World Health Organization's
continued campaign to suppress commu-
nicable diseases and raise the standards of
health care; the Food and Agriculture
Organization's work to expand agricul-
tural production and improve nutrition:
and the United Nations Educational, Sci-
entific and Cultural Organization's activi-
ties to expand scientific communication
and protect the world's cultural heritage.
All these activities clearly demonstrate
the stake we have in United Nations
efforts to control new technologies for the
common good, to bridge the gap between
developed and developing countries on
matters of trade and aid, to facilitate the
exchange of technical and scientific
knowledge, and to set standards of be-
havior for international activity. To these
concerns and to the need to improve
the functioning of all multilateral institu-
tions our nation must give increasing at-
tention in the coming years.
The White House,
September 6, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE The message is printed in the report
entitled "U.S. Participation in the UN, Report
by the President to the Congress for the Year
1972" (Government Printing Office, 232 pp
248 Veto of the Minimum Wage Bill.
September 6, 1973
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning today, without my ap-
proval, H.R. 7935. a bill which would
make major changes in the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
This bill flows from the best of inten-
746
