Richard Nixon, 1973
May 16 [156]
else the Commission might consider de-
sirable for a comprehensive reform of
Federal elections and campaign prac-
tices.
It would be directed to make its final
report to the Congress and the President
no later than December 1, 1973. It would
also be encouraged to make interim rec-
ommendations during the course of its
work, in order to expedite their consid-
eration by the Congress.
Because it bears an intimate and vital
relationship to campaign reform, I rec-
ommend that the Commission also con-
sider the question of whether the length
of the terms of office of members of the
Senate, of the House of Representatives
or of the President should be changed.
If the Commission is to complete its
work promptly, in order to allow the Con-
gress time to consider and possibly to act
on its recommendations prior to the 1974
Congressional campaigns, it is, of course,
essential that the Commission begin its
work soon and pursue it expeditiously.
For my part, I shall do all that I can to
facilitate this, and I urge the Congress to
take swift and favorable action on this
proposal.
The White House,
May 16, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on the
message by Leonard Garment, Special Con-
sultant and Acting Counsel to the President.
156 White House Statement About Congressional Role in
May 16, 1973
Indochina Peace Efforts.
AFTER MORE than 10 arduous years of
sacrifice and effort in Indochina, an
equitable framework for peace was finally
agreed to in Paris last January. This
could not possibly have been achieved
without the active support of Congress,
especially in the last difficult years.
The President is very concerned that
having persevered to success these long
years, the Congress has, on the very eve
of negotiations to achieve compliance
with that settlement, taken action that
could severely undermine prospects for
success.
It is the President's hope that as the
legislative process unfolds, consideration
of these matters will take place in the
broader perspective of continuing nego-
tiations.
The President, in full compliance with
his constitutional responsibilities, is de-
termined to achieve a cease-fire and with-
drawal of foreign forces from Cambodia
in accordance with the Paris agreements,
and to secure the lasting peace in Indo-
china for which so many people have
sacrificed so much.
NOTE: Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler read
the statement at his news conference at the
White House on May 16, 1973.
On May 15, the Senate Appropriations
Committee had approved an amendment to
H.R. 7447, a supplemental appropriations bill,
which would prohibit the use of any funds in the
bill, or subsequently appropriated, to support
U.S. combat activities in Cambodia or Laos.
537
