[225] Aug. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Korean Peninsula, and expressed the
readiness of their Governments to con-
tribute to the furtherance of peace and
stability in that area. They pledged to
continue to facilitate regional cooperation
in Asia as an important contributing fac-
tor in securing a lasting peace throughout
that part of the world.
7. The President pointed out the de-
sirability of a Declaration of Principles to
guide future cooperation among the in-
dustrialized democracies. The Prime Min-
ister expressed his positive interest therein.
The Prime Minister and the President
agreed that Japan and the United States
would consult closely on the matter as
preparations proceed toward a Declara-
tion acceptable to all the countries
concerned.
8. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent recognized that the existing frame-
work of international relations had been
the basis for the recent trend toward the
relaxation of tensions in Asia and reaf-
firmed that continued close and coopera-
tive relations between the two countries
under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation
and Security are an important factor for
the maintenance of stability in Asia. The
President confirmed the intention of the
United States to maintain an adequate
level of deterrent forces in the region. The
two leaders noted with satisfaction con-
tinuing efforts to ensure the smooth and
effective implementation of the Treaty
and concurred on the desirability of fur-
ther steps to realign and consolidate the
facilities and areas of the United States
Forces in Japan.
9. Recognizing that the greatest trans-
oceanic commerce between two nations in
the history of mankind greatly enriches
the lives of the peoples of Japan and the
United States, the Prime Minister and the
President pledged to ensure that this trade
continues to grow and to contribute to
the expansion and prosperity of the world
economy as a whole and to the over-all
relationship between the two countries.
They reviewed with satisfaction the dis-
cussions at the July meeting in Tokyo of
the Japan-US Joint Committee on Trade
and Economic Affairs on the measures
Japan has taken in the fields of trade and
investment, for which the President again
expressed the appreciation of the United
States; on the marked improvement in the
trade imbalance between the two coun-
tries, and the intention of both Govern-
ments to pursue policies designed to main-
tain the momentum of this improvement;
on promoting investment between the two
countries; and on the United States in-
tention to exert its best efforts to supply
essential materials including agricultural
products to Japan, which the President
reaffirmed. The Prime Minister and the
President confirmed the understanding
reached in the above meeting that on the
basis of recent economic developments,
Japan and the United States could look
forward to new perspectives in the de-
velopment of their economic relations.
10. The Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent reaffirmed the importance which
they attach to a successful conclusion of
the multilateral negotiations in the trade
and monetary fields. They endorsed the
objective of achieving an open and equi-
table world trade and investment, and a
reformed international monetary system,
responsive to the needs of an increasingly
interdependent world economy. They ex-
pressed their mutual satisfaction that the
Ministerial meeting to launch the new
round of multilateral trade negotiations
would be held in Tokyo in September.
They emphasized the firm intention of
678
