[351] Dec. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
351 Joint Statement on Economic, Industrial, and
Technological Cooperation Between the United States
and Romania. December 5, 1973
On the occasion of his official visit in the
United States of America the President
of the State Council of the Socialist Re-
public of Romania, Nicolae Ceauşescu
held talks with the President of the United
States of America, Richard Nixon, on De-
cember 4 and 5, 1973, with regard to the
development of economic relations be-
tween Romania and the United States.
Henry Kissinger, the Secretary of State,
George Shultz, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, Frederick Dent, the Secretary of
Commerce and other officials on the
American side; and Manea Mănescu,
Vice Chairman of the Council of Minis-
ters and Chairman of the State Planning
Committee, George Macovescu, the Min-
ister of Foreign Affairs, Vasile Pungan,
Counsellor to the President and other Ro-
manian officials also participated in dis-
cussions.
The two Presidents have emphasized
the favorable development of economic
relations between their two countries and
they expressed their determination to pro-
mote and expand economic, industrial
and technological cooperation on the basis
of respect for sovereignty, independence,
non-interference in domestic affairs, jurid-
ical equality, mutual advantage, and re-
fraining from the threat or use of force.
President Nixon and President Ceau-
şescu expressed their satisfaction with the
remarkable rate of growth in United
States-Romanian trade, which has in-
creased more than fourfold since Presi-
dent Nixon's visit to Bucharest in 1969.
Both Presidents noted particularly the
rapid growth in Romania's exports to the
United States, due to the major efforts
that Romania has made to promote its
exports to the United States.
It was anticipated that the trade will
continue to grow at the same pace or bet-
ter during 1974 and the following years.
The two Presidents stressed that the two
countries have taken several actions to
encourage and facilitate this growth in
trade.
The two Presidents noted the impor-
tance of the meetings and talks to be held
by President Ceauşescu with American
business leaders aimed at finalizing agree-
ments and understandings and generating
new interest in doing business with Ro-
mania.
The Presidents noted that, in recogni-
tion of Romania's status as a developing
country the United States Overseas Pri-
vate Investment Corporation is now pre-
pared to assist in insuring and financing
United States investments in Romania.
The two Presidents noted, that, since
November 1971, when President Nixon
determined that United States exports
to Romania should be eligible for United
States Export-Import Bank credits and
guarantees, these credits and guarantees
have effectively contributed to the expan-
sion of trade. Private United States banks
have also facilitated this expansion.
The two Presidents have noted the im-
portance of both countries' participation
in the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade and the importance of the provi-
sions and principles of this Agreement for
1000
