Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 5 [246]
I will say, finally, that with regard to
the Vice President and all other questions
that may relate to him, when I last met
with you ladies and gentlemen in the sun
in California-as distinguished from the
sun in the East Room-I recall very well
that there were several questions about
the Vice President, what would happen
in the event that this happened or that, in
the event that he were indicted, et cetera.
Let me say that I tried to respond to
those questions then. I expressed my con-
fidence in the Vice President's integrity
during the period that he has served as
Vice President and during which I have
known him, but I declined to comment
on those questions which were purely
hypothetical and which would be a grave
infringement upon the rights of the Vice
President-to comment upon what would
happen if certain things were to occur in
the course of an investigation that is pres-
ently going on, I understand, in Baltimore
in a grand jury.
I will simply say this: As far as such
questions are concerned, you are welcome
to ask them, but I will not dignify any
such questions with regard to charges that
have been made by innuendo and other-
wise against the Vice President. I will not
dignify them with an answer; it would
be an infringement on his rights.
OIL AND THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you alluded to
this a moment ago, but what exactly are
you doing to meet these threats from the
Arab countries to use oil as a club to force
a change in our Middle East policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank
Cormier, Associated Press], that has been
a subject of major concern, and what we
are doing, some can be talked about and
some cannot. Obviously, we are having
discussions with some of the companies
involved. Obviously, as far as some of the
nations involved-for example, Libya―
our relations are not that close that we
could have too much influence.
With regard to Saudi Arabia, perhaps
the relations which the United States has
with Saudi Arabia might lead to more
influence there.
What I would suggest is this: In a
broader context, the answer to the prob-
lem of oil that we presently depend upon
in the Mideast-we depend on it not, of
course, nearly as much as Europe, but we
are all in the same bag when you really
come down to it-the problem that we
have here is that as far as the Arab coun-
tries are concerned, the ones that are in-
volved here, is that it is tied up with the
Arab-Israeli dispute. That is why, in talk-
ing to Dr. Kissinger both before I nomi-
nated him and since, that we have put at
the highest priority moving toward mak-
ing some progress toward the settlement
of that dispute. That is one side of it.
The other problems, of course, are the
radical elements that presently seem to be
on the ascendancy in various countries in
the Mideast, like Libya. Those elements,
of course, we are not in a position to con-
trol, although we may be in a position to
influence them, influence them for this
reason: Oil without a market, as Mr.
Mossadeq² learned many, many years
ago, does not do a country much good. We
and Europe are the market, and I think
that the responsible Arab leaders will see
to it that if they continue to up the price,
if they continue to expropriate, if they do
expropriate without fair compensation,
2 Mohammad Mossadeq, Prime Minister of
Iran (1951-52).
31-870 - 75 - 50
735
