[127] Apr. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
What is needed now is decisive and re-
sponsible action to increase our energy
supplies, action which takes into account.
the needs of our economy, of our environ-
ment, and of our national security, and
that is why I am moving forward today
on several fronts.
I am ending quantitative controls on
oil imports and establishing a National
Energy Office.
I am ordering an acceleration in the
leasing of oil lands on the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf and increasing our ability
to prevent oil spills.
I am also taking new steps to maintain
our vital coal industry.
In addition, I am asking the Congress
to act quickly on several proposals. One
would remove Government regulations
which now discourage the growth of our
domestic natural gas industry. Another
would help us establish the research and
technological groundwork for developing
new forms of energy with a long-range
future. And still others would permit
licensing of new deepwater ports in our
oceans and would open the way for the
long delayed Alaska oil pipeline.
Each of these steps can help us meet
our energy needs and meet those needs
without sacrificing our environment or
endangering our national security, so that
we can continue to build a better life for
all of our people in this country.
NOTE: The President's remarks were filmed in
the Oval Office at the White House for later
broadcast on radio and television.
Before transmitting the message, the Presi-
dent met with the bipartisan leadership of the
Congress to discuss its contents.
On the same day, the President signed Proc-
lamation 4210, relating to imports of petroleum
and petroleum products, and Executive Order
11712, establishing the Special Committee on
Energy and the National Energy Office.
128 Special Message to the Congress on Energy Policy.
April 18, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
At home and abroad, America is in a
time of transition. Old problems are yield-
ing to new initiatives, but in their place
new problems are arising which once
again challenge our ingenuity and require
vigorous action. Nowhere is this more
clearly true than in the field of energy.
As America has become more prosper-
ous and more heavily industrialized, our
demands for energy have soared. Today,
with 6 percent of the world's population,
we consume almost a third of all the
energy used in the world. Our energy de-
mands have grown so rapidly that they
now outstrip our available supplies, and
at our present rate of growth, our energy
needs a dozen years from now will be
nearly double what they were in 1970.
In the years immediately ahead, we
must face up to the possibility of occa-
sional energy shortages and some increase
in energy prices.
Clearly, we are facing a vitally im-
portant energy challenge. If present trends
continue unchecked, we could face a
genuine energy crisis. But that crisis can
and should be averted, for we have the
capacity and the resources to meet our
energy needs if only we take the proper
steps and take them now.
More than half the world's total re-
302
