Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 15 [44]
PROTECTING OUR NATURAL HERITAGE
An important measure of our true com-
mitment to environmental quality is our
dedication to protecting the wilderness
and its inhabitants. We must recognize
their ecological significance and preserve
them as sources of inspiration and educa-
tion. And we need them as places of quiet
refuge and reflection.
Important progress has been made in
recent years, but still further action is
needed in the Congress. Specifically, I
will ask the 93rd Congress to direct its
attention to the following areas of
concern:
-Endangered Species. The limited
scope of existing laws requires new au-
thority to identify and protect endangered
species before they are so depleted that
it is too late. New legislation must also
make the taking of an endangered animal
a Federal offense.
-Predator Control. The widespread
use of highly toxic poisons to kill coyotes
and other predatory animals has spread
persistent poisons to range and forest lands
without adequate foresight of environ-
mental effects. I believe Federal assistance
is now required so that we can find better
means of controlling predators without
endangering other wildlife.
-Wilderness Areas. Historically, Amer-
icans have always looked westward to
enjoy wilderness areas. Today we realize
that we must also preserve the remaining
areas of wilderness in the East, if the
majority of our people are to have the
full benefit of our natural glories. There-
fore I will ask the Congress to amend the
legislation that established the Wilderness
Preservation System so that more of our
Eastern lands can be included.
-Wild and Scenic Rivers. New legisla-
tion is also needed to continue our ex-
pansion of the national system of wild
and scenic rivers. Funding authorization
must be increased by $20 million to com-
plete acquisitions in seven areas, and we
must extend the moratorium on Federal
licensing for water resource projects on
those rivers being considered for inclu-
sion in the system.
-Big Cypress National Fresh Water
Preserve. It is our great hope that we can
create a reserve of Florida's Big Cypress
Swamp in order to protect the outstand-
ing wildlife in that area, preserve the
water supply of Everglades National Park
and provide the Nation with an outstand-
ing recreation area. Prompt passage of
Federal legislation would allow the In-
terior Department to forestall private or
commercial development and inflationary
pressures that will build if we delay.
-Protecting Marine Fisheries. Current
regulation of fisheries off U.S. coasts is
inadequate to conserve and manage these
resources. Legislation is needed to au-
thorize U.S. regulation of foreign fishing
off U.S. coasts to the fullest extent au-
thorized by international agreements. In
addition, domestic fishing should be reg-
ulated in the U.S. fisheries zone and in the
high seas beyond that zone.
-World Heritage Trust. The United
States has endorsed an international con-
vention for a World Heritage Trust em-
bodying our proposals to accord special
recognition and protection to areas of the
world which are of such unique natural,
historical, or cultural value that they are
a part of the heritage of all mankind. I am
hopeful that this convention will be rati-
fied early in 1973.
-Weather Modification. Our capacity
to affect the weather has grown consider-
ably in sophistication and predictability,
ΙΟΙ
