Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 26 [312]
major powers, the Soviet Union and the
United States, have agreed-this was one
of the results of Dr. Kissinger's trip to
Moscow ¹-have agreed that we would
participate in trying to expedite the talks
between the parties involved. That does
not mean that the two major powers will
impose a settlement. It does mean, how-
ever, that we will use our influence with
the nations in the area to expedite a
settlement.
The reason we feel this is important is
that first, from the standpoint of the na-
tions in the Mideast, none of them-
Israel, Egypt, Syria, none of them—can
or should go through the agony of another
war.
The losses in this war on both sides have
been very, very high. And the tragedy
must not occur again. There have been
four of these wars, as you ladies and gen-
tlemen know, over the past 20 years. But
beyond that, it is vitally important to the
peace of the world that this potential
trouble spot, which is really one of the
most potentially explosive areas in the
world, that it not become an area in
which the major powers come together in
confrontation.
What the developments of this week
should indicate to all of us is that the
United States and the Soviet Union, who
admittedly have very different objectives
in the Mideast, have now agreed that it
is not in their interest to have a confronta-
tion there, a confrontation which might
lead to a nuclear confrontation, and
¹ On October 20, 1973, the White House
announced that, at the request of the Soviet
Government, the President had agreed to send
Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger to visit
Moscow for direct discussions with the Soviet
leadership on means to end hostilities in the
Middle East.
neither of the two major powers wants
that.
We have agreed, also, that if we are to
avoid that, it is necessary for us to use our
influence more than we have in the past,
to get the negotiating track moving again,
but this time, moving to a conclusion—
not simply a temporary truce but a per-
manent peace.
I do not mean to suggest that it is go-
ing to come quickly, because the parties
involved are still rather far apart. But I
do say that now there are greater incen-
tives within the area to find a peaceful
solution, and there are enormous incen-
tives as far as the United States is con-
cerned, and the Soviet Union and other
major powers, to find such a solution.
Turning now to the subject of our at-
tempts to get a cease-fire on the home
front, that is a bit more difficult.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[2] Today, White House Counsel con-
tacted Judge Sirica-we tried yesterday,
but he was in Boston, as you know-and
arrangements were made to meet with
Judge Sirica on Tuesday to work out the
delivery of the tapes to Judge Sirica.²
2 On October 23, 1973, Charles Alan Wright,
consultant to the Counsel to the President,
announced before Judge John J. Sirica in the
U.S. District Court that "the President of the
United States would comply in all respects
with the order of August 29 as modified by
the order of the court of appeals." Later the
same day, the White House released the trans-
cript of a news briefing containing informa-
tion on the President's decision to turn the
tape recordings over to Judge Sirica. Partici-
pants in the news briefing were Mr. Wright and
Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Assistant to the Presi-
dent. The news briefing is printed in the Week-
ly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
9, p. 1275).
897
