[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
proved ineffective, or which involve func-
tions more suitably performed by State
and local government or the private
sector.
The Hill-Burton hospital grants pro-
gram, for example, can no longer be justi-
fied on the basis of the shortage of hospital
facilities which prompted its creation in
1946. That shortage has given way to a
surplus-so that to continue this program
would only add to the Nation's excess of
hospital beds and lead to higher charges
to patients. It should be terminated.
We are also proposing to phase out the
community mental health center demon-
stration program while providing funding
for commitments to existing arrangements
extending up to eight years. This program
has helped to build and establish some 500
such centers, which have demonstrated
new ways to deliver mental health services
at the community level.
Regional Medical Programs likewise
can now be discontinued. The planning
function they have performed can better
be conducted by comprehensive State
planning efforts. A second function of
these programs, the continuing education
of physicians who are already licensed,
is an inappropriate burden for Federal
taxpayers to bear.
EDUCATION
1973 must be a year of decisive action
to restructure Federal aid programs for
education. Our goal is to provide con-
tinued Federal financial support for our
schools while expanding State and local
control over basic educational decisions.
I shall again ask the Congress to estab-
lish a new program of Education Revenue
Sharing. This program would replace the
complex and inefficient tangle of approxi-
mately 30 separate programs for elemen-
tary and secondary education with a sin
gle flexible authority for use in a few broad
areas such as compensatory education for
the disadvantaged, education for the
handicapped, vocational education,
needed assistance in federally affected
areas, and supporting services.
Education Revenue Sharing would en-
large the opportunities for State and local
decision-makers to tailor programs and
resources to meet the specific educational
needs of their own localities. It would
mean less red tape, less paper work, and
greater freedom for those at the local level
to do what they think is best for their
schools-not what someone in Washing-
ton tells them is best.
It would help to strengthen the prin-
ciple of diversity and freedom in educa-
tion that is as old as America itself, and
would give educators a chance to create
fresher, more individual approaches to the
educational challenges of the Seventies.
At the same time, it would affirm and fur-
ther the national interest in promoting
equal educational opportunities for eco-
nomically disadvantaged children.
If there is any one area of human activ-
ity where decisions are best made at the
local level by the people who know local
conditions and local needs, it is in the
field of primary and secondary education.
I urge the Congress to join me in making
this year, the third in which Education
Revenue Sharing has been on the legisla-
tive agenda, the year when this much-
needed reform becomes law.
The time has also come to redefine the
Federal role in higher education, by re-
placing categorical support programs for
institutions with substantially increased
funds for student assistance. My budget
proposals have already outlined a plan to
138
