[325] Nov. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
fornia. There wasn't anything else to run
for-[laughter) so I moved to New
York and started to make money.
I came back to see her because she had
had several serious operations, and the
prognosis was that she would not live. I
remember going into the hospital room. I
talked to her a while. I noticed that she
seemed to be a little down. I said,
"Mother, don't you give up," and all of a
sudden she got up on her elbow, and she
looked at me, and she said, "Richard,
don't you ever give up."
I want to say to this great audience here
that that is the spirit of the three honorees
you have here tonight; that is the spirit
of the frontier women of America, the
women who helped make the West, Ne-
vada and all the great States that we, who
come from the West, know so well, and
that is the spirit, strength in adversity, that
has carried America through many trials
and that will carry it on to many great
triumphs in the future.
And I am proud to be here tonight to
join with the Nevada State Society in
honoring these three great ladies, and by
honoring them, honoring the women of
America who have the character to make
the men whatever they happen to be.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:15 p.m. in the
Sheraton Room of the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
The Nevada State Society of Washington,
D.C., was holding its "Salute to Nevada's Out-
standing Women of the Century," and awards
were presented to Mrs. Nixon, Helen Delich
Bentley, Chairman of the Federal Maritime
Commission, and Eva B. Adams, Director of
the Bureau of the Mint from 1961 to 1969.
Chester H. Smith was president of the Ne-
vada State Society, and Mike O'Callaghan was
Governor of Nevada.
326 Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention
on the International Regulations for Preventing
Collisions at Sea, 1972.
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to acceptance, the
Convention on the International Regula-
tions for Preventing Collisions at Sea,
1972, done at London October 20, 1972.
The report of the Department of State is
enclosed for the information of the
Senate.
The Convention is designed to revise
and bring up to date the International
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at
Sea, 1960, in the light of technological
developments and increased use of the
marine environment since those Regula-
tions were concluded.
International concern for the protection
November 9, 1973
and effective management of our oceans
has been growing in recent years. The in-
ternational community has also become
more aware that the effects of marine
casualties are not confined to the men
and vessels immediately involved but,
through the increased risk of marine pol-
lution, can extend well beyond. I recom-
mend that the Senate give prompt con-
sideration to this Convention and consent
to its acceptance.
The White House,
November 9, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
W (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
928
