Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 17 [334]
last most people for a lifetime, particu-
larly my audiences.
And so, under the circumstances, what
probably will do will be, do some writ-
ing and, perhaps, contribute to bettering
the political process. Let me just say
this: Neither party is without fault in the
campaign of 1972-quite a bit of violence
on the other side, I never spoke anyplace
without getting a pretty good working
over.
Neither party was without fault with
regard to the financing. They raised $36
million, and some of that, like some of
ours, came from corporate sources and
was illegal because the law had been
changed, and apparently people didn't
know it.
And as far as Congressmen and Sena-
tors are concerned, they will all tell you
that with the new laws and so forth, there
ought to be some changes.
I think that if we can't get the Congress
to act on the proposal I gave to them 6
months ago to provide a commission to
set up new rules for campaign contribu-
tions-limiting them-new rules for cam-
paign procedures, then after I leave office,
I am going to work for that, because I
don't want to be remembered as the man
who maybe brought peace for the first
time in 12 years, who opened to China,
who opened to Russia, maybe avoided a
war in the Mideast, maybe, if we can con-
tinue it, cut unemployment down for the
first time in 18 years-for the first time in
peacetime it is down to 42 percent. It was
never at that level, never below 5 percent
in the sixties, any time in the sixties-
neither the Kennedy nor the Johnson Ad-
ministration--except during the
years.
I want to be remembered, I would trust,
as a President that did his best to bring
peace and also did his best to bring a de-
gree of prosperity, perhaps a contribution
in the energy field, in the environmental
field, but also one who did his best, when
his own campaign got out of hand, to do
everything possible to see that other cam-
paigns didn't get out of hand in the future.
Now we will go to the milk case.
THE MILK CASE
[20.] MR. QUINN. Mr.
QUINN. Mr. President,
APME would like to ask you about the
milk case, but our 60-minute commit-
ment of time has run out. APME appre-
ciates your appearance before us this eve-
ning, and we thank-
THE PRESIDENT. I will take the time.
Televisions, keep me on just a minute.
[Laughter]
MR. QUINN. thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. It is a lousy movie
anyway tonight.
The reason the milk case question—
and this will be the one I will take-ought
to be asked, as it is, is that just some awful
nice people are getting a bad rap about it.
And I am not referring about myself. I am
referring about people in the Adminis-
tration. They have had John Connally
down. They have run him around the
track. I guess they are going to have
Cliff Hardin down, and Pete Peterson,
and all the rest.4
The whole charge is basically this: that
this Administration, in 1971, raised the
support price for milk as a quid pro quo
for a promise by the milk producers that
* John B. Connally, Secretary of the Treasury
(1971-72); Clifford M. Hardin, Secretary
of Agriculture (1969-71); and Peter G.
Peterson, Secretary of Commerce (1972).
963
