[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic progress. South and North Ko-
rea, for example, have begun a dialogue
to explore the possibility of settling major
differences and have agreed that the ulti-
mate unification of their country must be
reached by peaceful means. Only a decade
ago, Malaysia and Indonesia were virtu-
ally at war; today they are cooperative
partners in regional organizations.
Japan has also been engaged in difficult
adjustments. A generation ago, there was
deep suspicion and bitterness between
Japan and Korea. Today, though past
scars of a painful history have not entirely
healed, the two countries have moved to-
ward a closer and mutually beneficial re-
lationship. Japan and the People's
Republic of China had for some time been
engaged in commercial and cultural ex-
changes. Last year they agreed to resume
full diplomatic relations. Despite the lack
of a formal peace treaty, Japan and the
Soviet Union are discussing projects for
cooperative development of Siberian
natural resources and increasing trade. If
successful, these steps could help promote
better political and economic relations be-
tween them.
The most obvious area of unresolved
antagonism in Asia is in Indochina--
between North Vietnam and its local fol-
lowers on the one hand, and the legal gov-
ernments of South Vietnam, Laos, and
Cambodia on the other. Ceasefire agree-
ments were reached in January in Viet-
nam and in February in Laos. These were
important and hopeful steps toward end-
ing the conflict in Indochina. At this writ-
ing, some fighting continues. It is our
deepest hope that this continuing violence
will soon end and that lasting peace will
be achieved.
THE U.S. RESPONSE TO ASIA
When this Administration took office,
we determined that a reordering of our
relationships with Asia and with other
parts of the world was needed. It seemed
to many Americans, as it did to me, that
our role was too dominant, our presence
too pervasive in the changed circum-
stances of the 1970's. It was time for
others-especially those who had achieved
new strength and prosperity-to do more
for themselves and for others. The sacri-
fices of Vietnam and the internal strains
it had created played an important part
in shaping this outlook. Another deter-
minant was the continuing deficit in our
balance of payments and the pressures
this put on the dollar and our economic
health. These and other factors were even
pushing some Americans into a mood of
growing isolationism.
We recognized this as the gravest kind
of threat. Heedless American abdication
of its responsibilities to the world would
destroy the global balance and the fabric
of peace we had worked so hard and long
to develop. Those who relied on us to help
assure their security would be gravely
concerned. Adversaries who had shown a
willingness to reconcile long-standing dif-
ferences would promptly revise their cal-
culations and alter their actions. It was a
prescription for chaos.
And so we charted our course between
over-extension and withdrawal. We
would continue to play a major and active
role in world affairs, but we would ask our
allies to draw increasingly on their new
strength and on their own determination
to be more self-reliant. The immediate
context for this definition of policy was the
428
