[147] May 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
fire, and I can assure you, my friends, this
room is full of fine steel tonight.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:04 p.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
148 Statement Following the
Michael P. Balzano, Jr.,
May 10, 1973
AS THE new Director of ACTION
takes office today, I am pleased to reaffirm
the commitment of this Administration
to America's volunteer programs both at
home and abroad.
One of the greatest potential forces for
solving contemporary social problems is
voluntarism—the helping hand that each
of us can give to those in need. Two years
ago, in order to tap that resource more
effectively, we brought a number of fed-
erally sponsored volunteer programs under
one roof, ACTION.
Today there are some 48,000 volunteers
who participate in the activities of this
149 Statement About Proposed
Legal Services Corporation.
TWO YEARS AGO I proposed the crea-
tion of a Legal Services Corporation as a
means of delivering high quality legal
assistance to those who would otherwise
be unable to afford it. The need still exists,
and today I am once again asking the
Congress to establish this corporation.
I firmly believe that we must provide a
mechanism to overcome economic bar-
riers to adequate legal assistance.
Eight years ago a legal services pro-
gram was initiated as a small experiment
within the Office of Economic Opportu-
Hilton Hotel. The dinner was cosponsored by
the Republican Senatorial Campaign Com-
mittee, the National Republican Congressional
Committee, and the Republican National
Committee.
Swearing In of
as Director of ACTION.
agency. Many of them are involved with
programs begun earlier and continued by
this Administration; others participate in
new programs which we have launched
over the past 4 years.
I am confident that the ACTION
agency will continue to write exciting new
chapters in the history of voluntarism in
America. I hope the American people will
join me in giving this important work our
strong support.
NOTE: The President participated in the swear-
ing-in ceremony for Mr. Balzano in the Oval
Office at the White House.
Legislation To Establish a
May 11, 1973
nity. It grew rapidly, and today more than
2,250 lawyers are assisting the needy in
about 900 neighborhood law offices.
We have learned many lessons during
this time. We have learned, for instance,
that any federally sponsored effort which
runs counter to State and local officials is
sure to spark controversy. We have
learned that Federal programs with
noble social aims must be carefully struc-
tured to mitigate abuse by those who run
them. But more than anything else, we
have learned that legal assistance for the
526
