Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 23 [310]
309 Letter Directing the Acting Attorney General To
Discharge the Director of the Office of Watergate
Special Prosecution Force. October 20, 1973
Dear Mr. Bork:
I have today accepted the resignations
of Attorney General Richardson and Dep-
uty Attorney General Ruckelshaus. In ac-
cordance with Title 28, Section 508(b) of
the United States Code and of Title 28,
Section 0.132 (a) of the Code of Federal
Regulations, it is now incumbent upon
you to perform both the duties as Solicitor
General, and duties of and act as Attor-
ney General.
In his press conference today Special
Prosecutor Archibald Cox made it appar-
ent that he will not comply with the in-
struction I issued to him, through Attor-
ney General Richardson, yesterday. Clear-
ly the Government of the United States
cannot function if employees of the Ex-
ecutive Branch are free to ignore in this
fashion the instructions of the President.
Accordingly, in your capacity of Acting
310
·
Attorney General, I direct you to dis-
charge Mr. Cox immediately and to take
all steps necessary to return to the De-
partment of Justice the functions now be-
ing performed by the Watergate Special
Prosecution Force.
It is my expectation that the Depart-
ment of Justice will continue with full
vigor the investigations and prosecutions
that had been entrusted to the Watergate
Special Prosecution Force.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Robert H. Bork, The Acting At-
torney General, Justice Department, Washing-
ton, D.C.]
NOTE: The text of Acting Attorney General
Bork's letter discharging Special Prosecutor Ar-
chibald Cox, dated August 20, 1973, and re-
leased with the President's letter, is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 9, p. 1272).
Veto of the United States Information Agency
Appropriations Authorization Bill.
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning today without my
approval S. 1317, the United States
Information Agency Appropriations Au-
thorization Act of 1973.
The major purpose of this bill is to
authorize appropriations for operation of
the USIA during fiscal year 1974. Unfor-
tunately, however, the Congress has in-
jected a separate issue which, in good
conscience, I must oppose.
Traditionally, when it is deemed neces-
October 23, 1973
sary for a Department or Agency to with-
hold certain confidential information that
has been requested by the Congress, the
President issues a directive or statement
prohibiting the disclosure of such infor-
mation and explaining the reasons for his
action. The two branches then explore
means of compromise by which data can
be supplied in a way that is consistent
with the constitutional obligations of each
branch.
Section 4 of S. 1317 ignores this prece-
891
