[21] Jan. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
in 1974 assures support for continuation
of the economy's upward momentum
without rekindling inflation. Greater
stimulus in 1974 would be dangerous, and
would put an unsupportable burden on
future budgets.
Budget receipts in 1974 are estimated
to be $256 billion. This is an increase of
$31 billion over 1973, reflecting growing
prosperity, higher personal income, and
rising corporate profits. The receipts esti-
mates also reflect the impact of tax cuts
resulting from the Tax Reform Act of
1969, the new economic policy and the
Revenue Act of 1971, as well as the pay-
roll tax increases enacted to finance higher
social security benefits.
Budget outlays in 1974 are expected to
be $268.7. billion. The total would have
been substantially greater-probably
about $288 billion--had my Administra-
tion not made an extraordinary effort to
hold to the fiscal guidelines of a $250
billion maximum in 1973, rather than the
nearly $261 billion which otherwise would
have occurred, and to full-employment
balance in 1974-
Even so, this budget necessarily pro-
poses an increase in outlays of $19 billion,
or nearly 8% over the previous year. It
provides amply for America's security and
well-being in the year ahead.
The 1974 budget program projects full-
employment outlays of $288 billion in
1975, which, together with the revenues
that would be produced under existing
law, will mean full-employment balance
in that year.
About $288 billion of budget author-
ity--the new authority to make commit-
ments to spend is requested for 1974.
Of the total, about $173 billion will re-
quire new action by the Congress.
IMPROVING GOVERNMENT
THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT.-The last
article of the Bill of Rights says:
"The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved
to the States respectively, or to the
people."
The philosophy of the Founding
Fathers embodied in this amendment is
also my philosophy. I believe that a larger
share of our national resources must be
retained by private citizens and State and
local governments to enable them to meet
their individual and community needs.
Our goal must not be bigger govern-
ment, but better government at all
levels. Our progress must not be meas-
ured by the amount of money we put into
programs, but by the accomplishments
which result from them.
One of my first acts as President was to
direct that an intensive review be made of
our federal system of government. We
found that:
---the executive branch was poorly or-
ganized to accomplish domestic pro-
gram objectives;
State and local governments often
could not meet the basic needs of
their citizens; and
--Federal programs to assist State and
local governments had become a con-
fusing maze, understood only by
members of a new, highly specialized
occupation--the grantsmen.
My Administration has developed a
comprehensive strategy for dealing with
these problems through restructuring the
executive departments and revitalizing
the federal system.
A RESTRUCTURED FEDERAL GOVERN-
38
