Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 15 [80]
me on my trip, and they have accom-
panied Dr. Kissinger on his trips.
A word about why Ambassador Bruce
was selected. We called him out of retire-
ment because I thought it was very im-
portant to appoint a man of great stature
to this position. The Chinese accepted that
view themselves, and we expect soon to
hear from them as to the appointment of
the man they will have as his opposite
number here in Washington. Another rea-
son that I selected Ambassador Bruce was
because of his great experience. All of you
know that he has been Ambassador to
Britain and Ambassador to Germany, Am-
bassador to France, and also headed our
delegation in Paris in the Vietnam talks in
1971 and '72, in the early part of '72.
A third reason, perhaps, has even
greater significance. Many of you in this
room were on the trip to China, and some-
times I suppose the feeling must have de- ·
veloped, "Well, this is a one-shot deal." I
never considered it that, and all of you
who reported on it did not consider it that.
It was the beginning, we trust, of a longer
journey, a journey in which we will have
our differences, but one in which the most
populous nation in the world and the
United States of America can work to-
gether where their interests coincide for
the cause of peace and better relations
in the Pacific and in the world.
It is necessary that this be, therefore, a
bipartisan enterprise in the highest sense
of the word.
Mr. Bruce, as you know, while he has
not been engaged in partisan politics as
such, is a Democrat. He has served four
Presidents with equal distinction, Demo-
cratic Presidents as well as Republicans.
And we believe that appointing him as
head of the delegation indicates our inten-
tion that this initiative will continue in the
future, whether the Presidency is occupied
by a Democrat or a Republican. Of course,
I am not making any predictions as to
what will happen when I leave.
But that is the end of my announce-
ment. We will now go to your questions.
QUESTIONS
TESTIMONY OF WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL
BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE
[2.] Mr. Risher [Eugene V. Risher,
United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to stick
by your decision not to allow Mr. Dean
to testify before the Congress, even if it
means the defeat of Mr. Gray's nomi-
nation? 1
THE PRESIDENT. I have noted some
speculation to the effect that the Senate
might hold Mr. Gray as hostage to a deci-
sion on Mr. Dean. I cannot believe that
such responsible Members of the United
States Senate would do that, because as
far as I am concerned, my decision has
been made.
I answered that question rather
abruptly, you recall, the last time it was
asked by one of the ladies of the press here.
I did not mean to be abrupt, I simply
meant to be firm.
Mr. Dean is Counsel to the White
House. He is also one who was counsel to
a number of people on the White House
Staff. He has, in effect, what I would call
a double privilege, the lawyer-client rela-
tionship, as well as the Presidential
privilege.
¹L. Patrick Gray III was designated Acting
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion on May 3, 1972. He was nominated to be
Director on February 21, 1973.
203
