Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 9 [110]
109 Statement About Intention To Withdraw the
Nomination of L. Patrick Gray III To Be Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. April 5, 1973
PAT GRAY is an able, honest, and dedi-
cated American.
Because I asked my Counsel, John
Dean, to conduct a thorough investigation
of alleged involvement in the Watergate
episode, Director Gray was asked to make
FBI reports available to Mr. Dean. His
compliance with this completely proper
and necessary request exposed Mr. Gray
to totally unfair innuendo and suspicion,
and thereby seriously tarnished his fine
record as Acting Director and promising
future at the Bureau.
In view of the action of the Senate
Judiciary Committee today, it is obvious
IIO
that Mr. Gray's nomination will not be
confirmed by the Senate. Mr. Gray has
asked that I withdraw his nomination.
In fairness to Mr. Gray, and out of my
overriding concern for the effective con-
duct of the vitally important business of
the FBI, I have regretfully agreed to
withdraw Mr. Gray's nomination.
I have asked Mr. Gray to remain Act-
ing Director until a new nominee is
confirmed.
NOTE: The statement was released at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
Mr. Gray's nomination was withdrawn on
April 17, 1973.
110 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency. April 9, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the Arms Control and
Disarmament Act as amended (P.L. 87-
297), I herewith transmit the Annual Re-
port of the United States Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency.
The year covered by this report has been
the most rewarding in the twelve-year
history of the agency. Agreements reached
with the Soviet Union in the Strategic
Arms Limitation Talks testify to the de-
termination of this Administration to
move away from the dangers and burdens
of unrestrained arms competition and to-
ward a stable and constructive interna-
tional relationship.
The negotiations have resulted not in
concessions by the two parties, one to
the other, but in mutual arrangements
to insure mutual security. For the first
time, the United States and the Soviet
Union have taken substantial steps in
concert to reduce the threat of nuclear
war. The current round of SALT nego-
tiations will concentrate on achieving a
definitive treaty on the limitation of of-
fensive weapons systems.
The past year has also seen continued
progress in other areas of arms control.
Four years after the initial NATO
proposal, positive planning has begun for
a conference on Mutual and Balanced
Force Reductions in Central Europe. The
Convention banning biological weapons
and calling for the destruction of existing
stockpiles was opened for signature on
257
