Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 27 [130]
Whenever we have been confronted
with great national challenges in the past,
the American people have done their
duty. I am confident we shall do so now.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 18, 1973.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing on the message by Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz. Also released was
the transcript of a news briefing on oil import
policy by William E. Simon, Deputy Secretary,
and William A. Johnson, Energy Advisor to
the Deputy Secretary, Department of the Treas-
ury; and Charles J. DiBona, Special Consultant
to the President on energy matters.
129 Statement About the Death of Hamilton Fish
Armstrong. April 25, 1973
HAMILTON FISH ARMSTRONG dis-
tinguished himself as a scholar, a diplo-
mat, and an editor. His vast learning,
combined with his extensive practical ex-
perience, made him a valuable source of
counsel for several generations of Ameri-
can leaders. As the inspired and inspiring
editor of Foreign Affairs, he was a strong
force for a more peaceful, more stable
world.
Mrs. Nixon and I extend our deepest
sympathy to his family.
NOTE: Mr. Armstrong, 80, died in New York
City, on April 24, 1973.
He was a founder of Foreign Affairs and its
editor from 1928 until his retirement in the
fall of 1972.
130 Statement Following an Inspection Flight Over
Flooded Areas in Mississippi, Arkansas, and
Louisiana. April 27, 1973
AS THE Missouri and Mississippi Rivers
and their tributaries have ravaged large
areas of the Midwest and South with rec-
ord-breaking floods during the past 6
weeks, I have followed the situation with
great concern and have taken steps to en-
sure that maximum Federal assistance is
available to those who have suffered.
This morning I have made a low-level
airplane flight over the swollen head-
waters of the Yazoo River in Mississippi
and from there west to the Mississippi
River and downstream to Vicksburg.
From the air, we were able to view heavily
affected portions of three States-Missis-
sippi, southeastern Arkansas, and north-
eastern Louisiana-not closely enough to
see the full dimensions of this tragedy,
but enough to gain a better idea of the
magnitude of the damage being done.
Preliminary estimates covering all eight
States hit by the floods, including Iowa,
Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee,
Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana, in-
dicate that some $147.5 million in prop-
erty damage has already occurred. Agri-
cultural areas are particularly hard-hit.
The situation is expected to remain seri-
ous through mid-June, particularly in
Louisiana and here in Mississippi.
To deal with this emergency, Federal
agencies have been mobilized to assist
31-870 O- 7524
319
