Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 23 [57]
Scouts were in a minute ago they referred
to the fact that I was somewhat known
as a sportsman. I know you are, too. Let
us just hope and perhaps even predict
that before that year 1976 comes around
that Washington will have won the Super
Bowl.
MAYOR WASHINGTON. I am charging
them up.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Following the remarks, Judge Edward Allen
Tamm of the United States Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia Circuit, administered the
oath of office.
56 Statement on the Death of Winthrop Rockefeller.
February 22, 1973
WINTHROP ROCKEFELLER was a
man of many dimensions. A successful
businessman--the son of a great American
family-he also knew from personal ex-
perience the life of hard manual labor. He
was a leading force in the struggle for
racial justice, and he contributed signifi-
cantly not only to the preservation of our
cultural heritage, but also brought new
thinking to bear on numerous domestic
problems.
Winthrop Rockefeller gave greatly to
the people of his adopted State, Arkansas,
and they returned his devotion with po-
litical honor and personal affection. He
gave, as well, to this Nation through his
quiet philanthropy, his public leadership,
and his enterprising sense of adventure in
making America a better country.
Mrs. Nixon and I join with all Ameri-
cans in mourning the passing of a friend.
NOTE: Governor Rockefeller, 60, died in Palm
Springs, Calif. He was Governor of Arkansas
from 1967 to 1970.
57 Remarks on Receiving the Report on the Jobs for
Veterans Program. February 23, 1973
ONE THING that I noted-and I, of
course, am very gratified-is that our
POW's who are returning have enormous
potential and have, of course, great affec-
tion and respect, and if every one of them
has the offer of a job many of them are
going to stay in the service. Others, of
course, have offers of jobs, and there
will be no problem.
But we have to remember that in addi-
tion to the POW's there are 22 million
men who served in Vietnam. They also
need jobs, and the very fact of the POW's
returning reminds us of our obligation to
all veterans, because they were all fighting
for the same cause, a cause which is one
that we can be proud of and that they can
be proud of and that our POW's can be
proud of, and that is why this project is
so vitally important. [Inaudible]
Why don't you tell us how you are com-
ing along on this?
JAMES F. OATES, JR. [Chairman of
Jobs for Veterans]. Well, Mr. President, I
want to do that very much indeed, and I
have been looking forward to this oppor-
tunity. But before I do, I would like to
take just a minute and return to Jobs for
31-870 - 75 - 12
127
