[121] Apr. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
who have retired and those who are being
initiated into their new positions, and also
to express appreciation for the splendid
music that we have heard from the Mike
Curb Congregation, whom we have heard
here tonight-also at the inaugural, at the
White House, and at the Marine Stadium
in Miami last July.
I would like to say a word, too, tonight
for a man who has what I have called the
most difficult job in this country, the
Press Secretary to the President. That has
changed. Two years ago, I said the
most difficult job in this country was being
Press Secretary to the Vice President.
[Laughter]
But I have followed, as you have, the
press briefings by Mr. Ziegler. His job is
difficult because he must serve two mas-
ters: He must serve the President of the
United States, and he must serve the
press. He must serve each with equal
loyalty and devotion, and I believe that
Ron Ziegler, with great poise, with great
patience, with great courtesy has met that
dual responsibility. He has been loyal to
the President and loyal to the press, and
I am glad to pay that tribute to him
tonight.
I must say you have really worked him
over, however. This morning he came
into the office a little early, and I said,
"What time is it, Ron?"
He said, "Could I put that on back-
ground?" [Laughter]
Needless to say, I am very touched by
the gift that has been presented. It is
one that will find its way into the Presi-
dential library at an appropriate time but
between now and then will be on the
Presidential desk. It particularly is mean-
ingful because of what it symbolizes, not
simply what Jefferson said about a Presi-
dent wanting peace more than anything
else, but what Jefferson said about all
Presidents wanting peace above every-
thing else.
And tonight, I think it was very appro-
priate and, to me, quite moving that Ted
Knap referred to the fact that whatever
our differences are-and we will have
them and should have them in a free
society on many, many domestic matters-
our desire for a world of peace, our will-
ingness to work for a structure of peace, is
one that unifies us all.
He mentioned the trips we have taken,
the one to Peking and the journey to
Moscow.
I thought that tonight I might be able
to have an announcement for another trip
this year. I haven't quite made a decision
on it yet, but there is one that I am
seriously thinking about. You won't need
a visa, but I may need one-I was think-
ing of going up to the Congress. [Laughter]
After 4 years of confrontation, it is time
for an era of negotiation. [Laughter]
Over these past 4 years, as I am sure
all of you will understand, there have been
many times when hard decisions had to
be made, but I thought the most difficult
time to be President of the United States
was when the Nation was at war. And
now that burden has been lifted, and I
realize the truth, that what David Law-
rence, who was a charter member of
this club 59 years ago, said to me a couple
of years ago is very true: "There is only
one more difficult task than being Presi-
dent of this country when we are waging
war, and that is to be President of the
Nation when it is waging peace."
What he meant, of course, was that the
United States has been through many
wars-in this century, four of them. And
288
