Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 5 [246]
I trust that the Congress, in the spirit
that Mr. "Tip" O'Neill¹ suggested, may
work with the Executive in this instance
in finding a way to control the spending
so that we do not break the budget and
raise the prices of the family budget for
every American.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
[3] The second area has to do with the
area of national defense. I have noted that
several Members of the Congress have
suggested that the way to balance the
budget is to add to the domestic budget,
to whatever amount they would like, and
then to take it out of defense. This would
be a fatal mistake, because we can have
the finest domestic programs in the world
and it isn't going to make any difference
if we don't have our freedom and if we
are not around to enjoy them.
At the present time, we are in negotia-
tions with regard to the reduction of our
forces in Europe. The Soviet Union, as
you note, is moving forward in the mod-
ernization of its own weapon system,
which they have a right to do under the
present SALT agreement. But we are
looking forward in the next summit meet-
ing, in which preparations are already
going forward, to limiting nuclear arms—
including MIRV's [multiple independ-
ently targetable re-entry vehicle] which,
of course, will add a new dimension to
their strength as well as to ours-limiting
nuclear arms and thereby reducing not
only the burden of armament but the dan-
ger of war for the whole world.
This great effort will be destroyed in
¹ Representative Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., of
Massachusetts, was majority leader of the
House of Representatives.
the event that the Congress reduces the
Federal budget for defense in a substan-
tial amount. It means that we will go into
these negotiations in a second-class posi-
tion, and there will be no incentive what-
ever for the Soviet Union or others in-
volved to negotiate with us for the mutual
reduction, which is the only way to assure
that we can have peace as well as limiting
the burden of arms.
ENERGY
[4] The third area is one that many of
you ladies and gentlemen have been writ-
ing about for some months, and with very
good reason, the area of energy. We were
lucky this summer. We didn't have some
of the things happen that we had feared
would happen with regard to brownouts,
et cetera, although there were some prob-
lems in some cities. But the prospect for
the future could be very dangerous.
This Saturday, I am calling a meeting
in which Governor Love will report to top
Administration officials with regard to the
whole energy problem. But essential to our
success in meeting the energy needs for
this winter and particularly for the future
is Congressional action.
There are seven major proposals-in-
cluding the Alaska pipeline, which you
have all written about, including, for ex-
ample, research and development in the
field of coal and other areas, including
the deregulation of gas produced in the
United States-there are seven of these
proposals in the energy field which the
Congress has not yet acted upon. If the
Congress does not act upon these pro-
posals, it means that we will have an en-
ergy crisis, not perhaps just this winter
but perhaps, certainly, later on as well.
And if the Congress does not act upon
733
