[281] Oct. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
281 The President's News Conference of
October 3, 1973
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER'S TRIP
TO THE FAR EAST
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Won't you be seated,
ladies and gentlemen. I guess I should
say, all of those who can find seats.
Dr. Kissinger, as you know from an an-
nouncement that I understand got out
about 30 minutes ago from Peking, will
visit Peking on October 26 to 29. This is
part of the continuing dialog between the
People's Republic of China and the
United States which began with my visit
to China last year.
The subjects that will be discussed in-
clude those that have been discussed on
previous occasions-trade, for example,
where it is interesting to note that the
amount of bilateral trade between the
two countries, which was approximately
$6 million in 1971, will be an estimated
$800 million in 1973. Scientific and cul-
tural exchanges will be a major subject
for discussions-and, of course, other
matters of mutual concern to the two
nations.
In addition, Dr. Kissinger has been in-
vited by the Foreign Minister of Japan,
Mr. Ohira, to stop in Japan on his visit
to the Far East. He will do so. The timing
of that visit, however, has not yet been
agreed upon and will be announced as
soon as we hear from the Japanese.
Incidentally, I learned that 12 to 15
members of the press will be invited, if
they desire to go, to go on the trip with
the Secretary of State, and if you would
put in your applications at the State De-
partment, in this instance, I think that
they will be honored in the order in
which they are received.
Now, I will be glad to take questions
on other subjects, since I understand Mr.
Warren has been rather busy with his
briefings lately.
QUESTIONS
COUNSELLOR HARLOW
[2] Mr. President, would you tell us
why you sent Bryce Harlow out to Arizona
last month just after the Vice President
and Mr. Goldwater conferred?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I didn't send
him to Arizona, as far as I know. I think
he went to Oklahoma.
Q. He was reported to have gone to
Phoenix.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he might have.
He might have. I think that what had
happened was that Senator Goldwater
had indicated an interest in the status of
the situation with regard to the Vice Presi-
dent's case, and Mr. Harlow, being some-
what familiar with that matter, was the
best man to provide that information for
him.
VICE PRESIDENT AGNEW
[3] Q. Mr. President, do you think
that the Vice President should resign if he
is indicted?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Vice Presi-
dent has addressed that question, and his
answer is an altogether proper one. The
Vice President is in a different position,
for example, than a member of the Presi-
838
