[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
viding appropriate relief from imports
which cause severe domestic problems and
would also liberalize our programs of ad-
justment assistance and other forms of
compensation to help workers who are
displaced because of rising imports. They
would also equip us to deal more ade-
quately with the unfair trading practices
of other countries, and through expanded
trade, to "sop up" some of the excess dol-
lar credits now held abroad which can
play havoc with domestic markets.
Other authorities contained in the bill
would give us greater flexibility to use
trade policy in fighting inflation, correct-
ing our balance of payments, expanding
our exports, and advancing our foreign
policy goals. One provision of this bill,
authorizing the President to extend Most
Favored Nation treatment to those coun-
tries which lack that status, would be
particularly helpful in carrying out our
foreign policy and I continue to give it my
strong support.
Altogether, the proposed Trade Re-
form Act of 1973 represents a critical
building block as we seek to construct a
durable structure of peace in the world
and a vibrant and stable economy at home.
In the difficult negotiations which lie
ahead, this legislation would enable us to
assure more jobs for American workers,
better markets for American producers,
wider opportunities for American inves-
tors and lower prices for American
consumers.
EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT
The Export Administration Act
amendment which my Administration
proposed on June 13th is another weapon
which could be helpful in the fight against
rising prices. One of the most important
causes of the recent inflationary surge has
been the extraordinary boom abroad and
the additional demand which it has gen-
erated for our products. On the whole,
this boom should be seen as a healthy,
long-range development for our economy
as well as for other countries. But as I said
last June, when we have pressing short-
ages in this country and when we must
choose between meeting needs abroad or
at home, then “we must put the American
consumer first."
This is why I have asked for new and
more flexible authority to establish certain
controls on food and other exports when
and where they are needed. I continue,
however, to oppose permanent controls
because they can upset and discourage our
entire pattern of healthy trade relation-
ships and thus complicate the fight against
inflation. Our limited controls on soybeans
were changed last Friday to permit full
exports on new contracts. This action was
taken because we are convinced that stocks
and new crop supplies are more than ade-
quate to meet our own needs.
Nevertheless, I still seek the authority
I requested last June to be sure we will
be able to respond rapidly, if necessary, to
new circumstances. I also emphasize that
new controls will be imposed only if they
are absolutely needed.
TAX REFORM
This Administration continues its
strong opposition to a tax increase. We
want to fight inflation and balance the
budget by placing restraints on spending
and not by adding to our current tax
burdens.
At the same time, I remain vitally in-
766
