[67] Mar. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
67 Memorandum Urging Support of the Red Cross.
March 3, 1973
Memorandum for Heads of Executive De-
partments and Agencies:
March is Red Cross Month, a time
when Americans can reaffirm and renew
their support for this vital organization
and the role it plays in our lives. Each year,
the range and scope of the Red Cross
grows with the growth of our country and
the needs of our people. In the past year
the Red Cross has helped to alleviate suf-
fering from disasters such as Hurricane
Agnes, trained hundreds of thousands to
deal effectively in matters of community
health and safety and, through its blood
donor program, brought help to untold
numbers of ill and injured. The Red Cross
has also provided valuable services for our
men and women in uniform and their
families.
As President of the United States and
Honorary Chairman of the American Na-
tional Red Cross, I have officially desig-
nated March, 1973, as Red Cross Month.
By so doing, I am indicating my strong
support for the important work of the
Red Cross America's Good Neighbor. I
hope that you-as citizens and leaders-
also will want to endorse the work of the
Red Cross by asking every member of the
Armed Forces and every Federal em-
ployee to be a good neighbor-and to help
the Good Neighbor. In this way we can
ensure that the Red Cross will have the
means to continue its important service to
the Nation.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Proclamation 4191, designating March as Red
Cross Month, 1973-
68 Radio Address About the State of the Union Message
on Community Development.
Good afternoon:
I want to report to you today on the
quality of life in our cities and towns.
A few years ago we constantly heard
that urban America was on the brink of
collapse. It was one minute to midnight,
we were told, and the bells of doom were
beginning to toll. One history of America
in the 1960's was even given the title
"Coming Apart."
Today, America is no longer coming
apart.
One of the most difficult problems of
the 1960's was the alarming increase in
crime-up 122 percent from 1960 to 1968.
March 4, 1973
Today, the rate of crime is dropping in
more than half of our major cities.
Civil disorders have also declined.
The air is getting cleaner in most of
our major cities.
The number of people living in sub-
standard housing has been cut by more
than 50 percent since 1960.
The Nation's first new transit system in
more than 20 years has just been opened
in San Francisco. Another is under con-
struction in Washington, D.C.; others are
planned in Atlanta and Baltimore.
City governments are no longer on the
verge of financial catastrophe. Once
164
