Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
-We wanted to speed up ceasefires in
neighboring Laos and Cambodia, for
the conflict affected all of Indochina.
-We needed clarification of certain
ambiguities. For example, the North
Vietnamese and we clearly agreed
that no coalition government was
contemplated in the settlement, but
the Vietnamese text of the agreement
could be read to suggest a new gov-
ernmental organ.
-We needed to work out the signing
procedure for the four parties.
-We wished to clarify a few other tech-
nical problems in the text.
These matters were important in order
to solidify the agreement, but they were
minor compared to the hurdles that had
already been surmounted. We would not
be stampeded into an agreement by an
arbitrary deadline. We would negotiate
until it was right. And once we believed it
was right, we would not be deflected from
signing it. Only the terms of the settle-
ment would determine the date of our
signature-not enemy pressures, nor ex-
cessive requests from our friends, nor an
electoral deadline.
THE FINAL STAGES
In retrospect, peace certainly was near
in late October-the ending of a twelve-
year conflict was reached twelve weeks
later. But the record of those twelve weeks
makes it equally clear that peace could
have come even sooner if it were not for
a cynical North Vietnamese approach at
the end of 1972.
On November 20, negotiations re-
sumed and lasted five days. We took up
the remaining problems in the agreement
and presented draft protocols designed to
supplement it. These were technical docu-
ments. They introduced no new issues but
spelled out in neutral detail the imple-
mentation of such aspects as ceasefire su-
pervision and prisoner release. At first the
North Vietnamese remained serious. We
made significant progress in the agree-
ment itself, although we received no
responses on the protocols. A stalemate
developed over the few residual issues,
however, and both sides agreed to recess
until December 4 to reconsider their
positions.
Throughout this period we continued
our intensive discussions with the Repub-
lic of Vietnam. We consulted through our
Ambassador in Saigon, with South Viet-
namese representatives in Paris, and
through high level emissaries to each
other's capital. We listened closely to
South Vietnam's concerns and presented
many of them forcefully in Paris. We did
not adopt all of them as our own, how-
ever. We determined what we thought
would make a fair agreement, and we
stayed within the framework of the Octo-
ber draft.
On December 4, when we resumed the
talks, the North Vietnamese attitude had
changed fundamentally. The final issues
could have been resolved in a few days
given a serious attitude on both sides. The
North Vietnamese began this round, how-
ever, by withdrawing all the changes they
accepted in November. We spent the next
few days working arduously back to where
we had been two weeks previously. Then
we reached a total impasse. Throughout
the last several days of the negotiations in
December it became very clear that Hanoi
had no intention of settling at that time.
We therefore recessed on December 13
after several fruitless and exasperating
sessions.
Many of the problems we had pointed
387
