Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 5 [246]
my colleague Tom Jarriel's question,
while I can understand-
THE PRESIDENT. It shows the two net-
works working together.
Q. No, not always, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank heaven you
are competitors.
Q. This is a question that we find a
lot of people ask us.
THE PRESIDENT. Surely.
Q. As you know, President Lincoln
said, "No man is above the law." Now,
for most, if not every other American,
any Supreme Court decision is final,
whether the person, in terms of the deci-
sion, finds it definitive or not. Would you
explain to us why you feel that you are
in a different category, why, as it applies
to you, that you will abide only by what
you call a definitive decision and that
you won't even define "definitive?"
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Rather,
with all due deference to your comment
with regard to President Lincoln, he was
a very strong President, and as you may
recall, he indicated several times during
his Presidency that he would move in the
national interest in a way that many
thought was perhaps in violation of the
law-the suspension of the writ of habeas
corpus, for example, during the Civil War
for 15,000 people, and other items, to
mention only one.
As far as I am concerned, I am simply
saying that the President of the United
States, under our Constitution, has a re-
sponsibility to this office to maintain the
separation of power and also maintain the
ability of not only this President but future
Presidents to conduct the office in the
interests of the people.
Now, in order to do that, it is essential
that the confidentiality of discussions that
the President has with his advisers, with
Members of Congress, with visitors from
abroad, with others who come in-that
those discussions be uninhibited, that they
be candid, they be freewheeling.
Now, in the event that Presidential pa-
pers, or in the event that Presidential con-
versations as recorded on tapes, in my
opinion, were made available to a court,
to a judge in camera, or to a committee
of Congress, that principle would be so
seriously jeopardized that it would prob-
ably destroy that principle-the confi-
dentiality which is so essential and in-
dispensable for the proper conduct of the
Presidency.
That is why I have taken the hard line
that I have taken with regard to com-
plying with the lower court's order.
Now, when we come to the Supreme
Court, the question there is what kind
of an order is the Supreme Court going
to issue, if any. And as I have said in
answer to Mr. Jarriel, it would not be ap-
propriate for me to comment on whether
an order would be definitive or not. I will
simply say that as far as I am concerned,
we are going to fight the tape issue. We
believe, my Counsel believe, that we will
prevail in the appellate courts.
And so, consequently, I will not respond
to your question until we go through the
appellate procedure.
WATERGATE INVESTIGATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, to follow up on
that Watergate question, you have re-
ferred repeatedly to having ordered a new
Watergate investigation on the 21st of
March of this year. Now, several high
officials of your Administration, Mr. Peter-
sen, Mr. Gray, and Mr. Kleindienst, have
739
