[31] Feb. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
We wish you continuous success, sir, and we
pray for your continuous success in leading the
people of the United States, this greatest of
nations, and in serving mankind the world over.
Once again, sir, our deepest and sincerest
gratitude, our pride in you, and our everlasting
friendship.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to
join me in raising your glasses to drink a toast
to the President of the United States.
32 Informal Exchange with Reporters After Visiting
Senator John Stennis at the Walter Reed
Army Medical Center. February 7, 1973
REPORTER. How is the Senator this morn-
ing, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I just talked to
the doctors, and they say that he is con-
siderably improved over what he was
yesterday. As you know, the situation was
considered to be quite grave yesterday
morning and yesterday afternoon, and
late last night, at midnight, I called Dr.
Tkach, our doctor, and had him check
with the doctors here, and they said he
had had a very good night, up to that
time, and apparently it went on for the
balance of the night.
This morning at 8 o'clock I called again
and found that he could take visitors.
They have not encouraged visitors up to
this time, so that is also a good sign. You
can't judge these things. The doctors say
he has been a remarkably resilient patient,
that he has, of course, very enormous
problems because of what happened to
him, but he is in excellent shape.
They make the point, for example, that
his tissues are much younger than a man
of 72 would normally have. Now, I judge
it by another thing---his handshake. He
has always had a grip of steel, and I
reached out and I thought after what
he had been through that, you know, he
would sort of be limp, but that handshake
just came on as strong as it ever was. So
as far as his spirit is concerned, it is ex-
cellent. That will help him some. He
has excellent medical care, and he has
made a remarkable comeback from where
he was yesterday.
It still, of course, is a very serious situa-
tion. But the doctors are much more
hopeful today, and being-everybody is
an amateur doctor to an extent-I think
he is going to make it. And he is going to
make it.
Q. What did you say to him this morn-
ing, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I said to him
that the whole country was praying for
him, that he was one that had done so
much to help his country, that now the
country was trying to help him, and that
he was really an indispensable man in the
Senate, with his strong leadership of the
Armed Services Committee.
I told him how much I had depended
upon him and that I was just waiting for
him to get back so we could still have him
there. I think one of the most important
factors in a patient's recovery-and I
would say this to all the people in the hos
pitals here and around the country-is
that the individual must know that he is
needed.
Of course, Senator Stennis knows that,
but it is good to hear it, and I would urge
that when people call on patients at hos-
pitals, rather than sympathizing about all
80
