Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 28 [342]
Narcotics Control-I have reaffirmed this
Administration's total commitment to
meet the threat which drug abuse poses
to the health and well-being of millions
of our people and, ultimately, to the fiber
of our society.
Evidence has continued to build up
during 1973 indicating that we are now
on the way to winning the battle against
this grave problem. International sources
of heroin supply are being pinched off,
narcotics prices are up while the quality
of illicit narcotic supplies is down, and the
capabilities for drug enforcement and
treatment have been upgraded at all lev-
els of government. The result is that our
heroin addict population has begun to de-
cline and the rate of new addiction is
down sharply.
Now our concern must be to press on
and finish the task. As with any effort
that has begun to succeed, we are finding
that our preliminary successes in the anti-
drug campaign have been uncovering fur-
ther problems to be solved. My discussions
with top officials today focused on three
such areas where more must be done if we
are to build effectively on the gains al-
ready made.
First, I have directed that efforts be
stepped up to enroll in treatment pro-
grams those heroin addicts who have not
voluntarily sought treatment thus far. The
"easy half" of our addict population, those
who want to break out of drug bondage,
342
Message to the Congress
New Wilderness Areas.
To the Congress of the United States:
At a time when our Nation is seriously
concerned with conserving our energy re-
sources, it is also important that we pro-
have largely been reached. The next step
will be to work intensively through edu-
cation, persuasion, and incentives, applied
within the criminal justice system, to bring
into treatment the remaining addicts,
those who may even think they enjoy
their condition and whose proselytizing is
the main cause of new addiction.
Second, as treatment programs con-
tinue to cut down the numbers of persons
who need heroin treatment, we will con-
tinue to encourage seriously dependent,
nonopiate drug abusers to utilize any ex-
cess capacity which may develop in our
existing treatment facilities.
Third, increased attention must and
will be given to adapting our international
narcotics control efforts to deal with the
new patterns for smuggling drugs that will
inevitably emerge as existing smuggling
routes into this country are cut off. I have
directed our ambassadors abroad to move
vigorously on this front.
I have often described the menace of
drug abuse as America's "public enemy
number one." We can be grateful that this
problem is finally beginning to come un-
der control. But we must also be deter-
mined never to let up in our offensive until
the conquest of this enemy is complete.
NOTE: The meeting was held in the Cabinet
Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on drug abuse law enforcement,
treatment, and rehabilitation programs.
Proposing Establishment of
November 28, 1973
tect another treasured national resource-
our wilderness areas and the many varie-
ties of plant and animal life which thrive
uniquely in wilderness environments.
983
