[288] Oct. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
advocate of the problems of the new Af-
rica and where it must go, but also one
who, when he comes to America, is able
to speak with great understanding and
great wisdom about those problems that,
wherever they exist in this world, will af-
fect the future of his country and the
future of ours. To a world statesman of
the first rank, the President of the Ivory
Coast, President Houphouet-Boigny.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Houphouet-Boigny
Houphouet-Boigny
spoke in
See also Item 286.
President
French. His remarks were translated by an in-
terpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Excellencies, la-
dies and gentlemen:
In few words, Mr. President, but in particu-
larly sensitive and well-chosen words, you have
said much about my country and my people,
about our achievements and our expectations,
which is both friendly and profound. I am
deeply touched, and I do thank you in my own
name, on behalf of my wife, and on behalf of
the delegation with me here today. We all share
in my very sincere joy and feelings.
It will soon be 2 years that we had the
honor and the great pride to welcome Mrs.
Richard Nixon to our capital city. This dazzling
visit, which we shall always remember, attested,
if need be, of the quality of the relations be-
tween our two countries and of the concern
which you feel, Mr. President, to show your
interest and your friendship to us.
Today, in spite of your heavy responsibilities,
you have received us here, and you are sharing
with your representatives of the government
and the people of the Ivory Coast some of your
very valuable time, and this indeed is again a
very rare treat for all of us.
I shall deliberately not mention here the in-
ternational problems and the African problems
which with you we have surveyed in such a
rewarding manner earlier today. I should like to
dwell specifically upon the relations between the
United States and the Ivory Coast, because I
am indeed convinced that my third visit in the
United States will, as much as my preceding
and memorable visits, be a milestone along the
comforting path of the relations between our
two countries.
These relations to which the establishment
of diplomatic links came very early and very
spontaneously to give formal, official nature
are, I am happy to stress, without any clouds.
The cordiality, the diverseness, and the frank-
ness of our relations are the dominant themes,
and the reasons that we have to eternalize the
excellence of these relations and enhance their
effects are tied directly to the convergence of
our interests as well as to the commonality of
our feelings.
It is, Mr. President, in the first place in the
area of business that we see the thrust of this
convergence. Recipient of 14 percent of our
exports, mainly coffee and cocoa, the United
States has become the second customer of the
Ivory Coast. It is also one of our privileged
suppliers. This is all the more significant that
the natural and traditional framework of our
trade relations with Europe was not a natural
incentive to a development of your exports to-
wards our part of the world.
As to industrial investments which now re-
main very scant in our country, they should be-
come in the very near future, with a textile
plant near Abidjan, and as the more remote
future for the two projects of rubber tires and
the operation of iron ore--they should really
take off in a much more significant manner.
In very general terms we note with deep sat-
isfaction the new interest that your business-
men are taking in our country At the same
time, we appreciate the action and the diverse
forms of the technological and financial aid of
the United States in the Ivory Coast over the
last several years. The Eximbank [Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States] has partic-
ularly been active to support two of our re-
gional development programs, two of the most
essential ones, one in the central with the
Kossou Dam and the other in the north for a
huge sugar industry complex.
As to the valuable assistance of your Peace
Corps volunteers, it is the extension of the AID
program, and it illustrates our common pre-
occupation to give our cooperation the irre-
placeable human dimension it needs to bring
people together and to bring for better under-
standing nations and races, and this is a very
854
