Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
and gas reserves along our Outer Conti-
nental Shelf. That is why I have ordered
the Department of the Interior to triple
the leasing schedule in this area and have
directed the Council on Environmental
Quality to study the feasibility of extend-
ing Outer Continental Shelf leasing to the
waters off our Atlantic Coast and the Gulf
of Alaska. I am equally determined, how-
ever, that our efforts to expand energy
production should not run rough-shod
over our valid concern to protect and en-
hance the natural environment.
I have therefore proposed in the past,
and have resubmitted to the Congress this
year, legislation to cancel oil leases in the
Santa Barbara Channel and to create in
that area a National Energy Reserve.
Under this legislation, oil from Naval Pe-
troleum Reserve No. 1 in California would
be substituted for the oil off Santa Bar-
bara and part of the proceeds from that
production would be used to meet the ex-
penses of exploring other potentially vast
oil and gas reserves in Naval Petroleum
Reserve No. 4 in Alaska. I believe that
this legislation would permit us to main-
tain momentum in exploration and devel-
opment while at the same time removing
the threat of oil spills as a result of the
unique geological formations off the
Southern California coast.
In view of the present scarcity of fuels,
it is important that we act now to draw
upon the oil available in the Naval Petro-
leum Reserve No. 1 (Elk Hills). During
the next several days, at my direction,
representatives of the Administration will
seek the necessary consultations with
members of the Congress in order to in-
crease production of oil from Elk Hills.
This increased production should help to
meet the fuel needs of the West Coast this
winter.
RESTORING AND RENEWING OUR
ENVIRONMENT
In
my message to the Congress on Feb-
ruary 15th of this year, I was able to re-
port that our Nation had moved away
from an era of environmental neglect into
a new era of restoration and renewal. The
92nd Congress helped in this process by
enacting a number of important measures
in 1971 and 1972.
Unfortunately, that Congress failed to
act upon nineteen of my environmental
proposals, and the Administration there-
fore resubmitted them last winter to the
new Congress. While most of these meas-
ures still await action, I continue to hope
that the Congress will turn its attention to
them.
Some say we have been the victim of
our own success-that we have passed im-
portant legislation in the environmental
area and that many are now tempted to
rest on these laurels. But such lassitude
would be dangerous. There are many
areas of environmental concern still to be
addressed. Three particularly important
matters are national land use policy, the
regulation of toxic substances, and the
assurance of safe drinking water.
NATIONAL LAND USE POLICY ACT
The management of our lands is an
emerging need of the highest priority. I
firmly believe that land use policy is, and
must remain, a basic responsibility of
State and local governments and that the
Federal Government should not usurp
their functions. Nevertheless, the Federal
Government should exercise leadership
concerning the land use decisionmaking
process, since our land is part of our na-
tional heritage and since decisions about
771
