[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tivities affecting the seabeds, we
could crystallize agreement on the
aspect most important to control.
-The questions of control over biolog-
ical weapons and chemical weapons
had been linked, although there was
no objective reason to do so. We first
took a unilateral step by renouncing
the use and possession of biological
weapons. Then we moved to elimi-
nate procedural questions by propos-
ing the separation of biological and
chemical issues, with priority for bio-
logical controls. This course ulti-
mately produced a treaty prohibiting
biological weaponry.
-The progress in arms control from
1969 to 1972 added to the general
improvement in Soviet-American re-
lations and helped to break the dead-
lock over opening negotiations on the
reduction of military forces in Cen-
tral Europe. Preliminary talks began
in Vienna in January 1973 to pre-
pare for formal negotiations this fall.
In preparing for the negotiations on
mutual and balanced force reductions in
Central Europe we are following much
the same pattern as in SALT. We have
concentrated initially on a complex tech-
nical analysis to illuminate all the indi-
vidual issues and on that basis to develop
basic concepts of reductions.
We can be proud of the accomplish-
ments of the past four years:
-In an area of overriding importance,
we have limited the strategic arsenals
of the United States and the Soviet
Union and created the conditions for
further progress.
-There is now momentum on a broad
international front that enhances the
prospects for additional agreements.
-In the region of major confrontation
in Central Europe the foundations
have been laid for serious negotia-
tions to begin this year.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION (SALT)
On November 17, 1969, representatives
of the United States and the Soviet Union
met in Helsinki to begin the first discus-
sions on the limitation of strategic arma-
ments. At that time, I characterized the
meetings as the "most momentous nego-
tiations ever entrusted to an American
delegation." I repeated my pledge, made
at the United Nations in September 1969,
that the United States would deal with
the issues "seriously, carefully, and pur-
posefully" to achieve the goal of "equi-
table accommodation." We were em-
barked on a "sustained effort not only to
limit the build-up of strategic forces but to
reverse it."
The agreements I signed on May 26,
1972, in St. Catherine's Hall in the Krem-
lin were a major step toward fulfilling this
commitment. We had not only succeeded
in resolving extraordinarily complex
technical issues, but had also raised Soviet-
American relations to a new level of mu-
tual understanding. The political com-
mitment reflected in these agreements was
a vital element in the broader effort we
were engaged in, one that culminated in
the Basic Principles of U.S.-Soviet rela-
tions agreed upon in Moscow.
Since last May, Government officials
have testified before the Congress at
length on all aspects of these agreements,
and I have discussed them with Congres-
sional leaders. We have fully described
what we believe they accomplished and
their significance for Soviet-American re-
lations and international security. In this
Report certain points are emphasized so
492
