Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Pakistan. As I stated in my Report last
year, "Our concern for the well-being and
security of the people of Pakistan does not
end with the end of a crisis." The United
States has always had a close and warm re-
lationship with Pakistan, and we have a
strong interest today in seeing it build a
new future.
Pakistan entered 1972 a deeply
troubled and demoralized nation. Crisis
and defeat in 1971 had torn apart its polit-
ical structure, halved its population, and
shattered the established patterns of its
economy. Yet the events of 1971 also
brought to power the first civilian admin-
istration Pakistan has had since 1958 and
produced a new and determined effort to
develop institutions of representative gov-
ernment. The National Assembly in April
1973 has just adopted a new democratic
federal constitution. President Bhutto has
taken many courageous steps of political,
economic, and social reform. He has re-
stored much of the self-confidence of his
countrymen.
The cohesion and stability of Pakistan
are of critical importance to the struc-
ture of peace in South Asia. Encourage-
ment of turmoil within nations on the
subcontinent can bring not only the dev-
astation of civil and international war,
but the involvement of outside powers.
This is the basis of America's interest in
helping Pakistan now consolidate its in-
tegrity as a nation.
To this end, since January 1972 we
have provided over $300 million to assist
Pakistan's program of economic recovery.
Our assistance in the form of new loans
to facilitate imports essential to Pakistan's
industrial and agricultural growth totaled
$120 million. We worked with Pakistani
and United Nations authorities to channel
$14 million in food and commodity emer-
`gency relief to the roughly 1.2 million
Pakistanis displaced from their homes by
the 1971 war. We have committed $124
million in Title I PL-480 foodstuffs
(including 1.3 million tons of wheat) to
meet shortages resulting from inadequate
rainfall and the dislocations of the war.
We provided $5 million in technical assist-
ance. We made about $45 million in aid
available to support the multilateral In-
dus Basin development program. In addi-
tion, we joined with other members of the
Pakistan Consortium, led by the World
Bank, to provide emergency debt relief,
the U.S. share totaling $50 million over
1972 and 1973.
As Pakistan now turns its efforts again
to long term economic and social develop-
ment, the United States once again stands
ready to assist in collaboration with the
Consortium and the World Bank. The
prospects are encouraging, particularly
because of the success Pakistan has had
through its own efforts in the past year to
reorient its economy after the loss of the
eastern wing. Pakistan has already man-
aged to expand its international markets
for its cotton and rice to more than offset
the loss of the east as a market and as an
exporter. Its export earnings this year may
even surpass the combined export earnings
of East and West Pakistan in 1970, the
last pre-war year.
The United States believes that Pakis-
tan, like any other nation, has a right to its
independence and security. Peace and
stability on the subcontinent cannot be
founded on any other basis. I made a deci-
sion in March 1973 to fulfill outstanding
contractual obligations to Pakistan and
India for limited quantities of military
equipment whose delivery had been sus-
pended in 1971. Our policy now, as be-
fore 1971, is to permit the export of non-
455
