[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
The initial exploratory phase in
November-December 1969 produced a
general work program. Full negotiations
began in the spring of 1970, and both
sides outlined comprehensive programs to
control a wide spectrum of armaments.
This parallel effort, however, grad-
ually became deadlocked over two major
issues. First, should both offensive and
defensive limitations be included from the
outset? The Soviet Union proposed that
the deadlock be resolved by limiting ABM
systems only. The United States thought
it essential to maintain a link between
offensive and defensive limits; we be-
lieved that an initial agreement that per-
mitted unrestrained growth in offensive
forces would defeat the basic purpose of
SALT.
Second, what offensive forces should be
defined as "strategic"? The Soviet Union
wanted to include all nuclear delivery
systems capable of reaching Soviet terri-
tory. The United States maintained that
major intercontinental systems should
have priority in negotiating limitations.
By late 1970 these two issues had
blocked further progress. I decided to
take the initiative in direct contacts with
the Soviet leaders to find a solution. The
result of our exchanges was an agreement
on May 20, 1971, that we would con-
centrate the negotiations on a permanent
treaty limiting ABM systems, while work-
ing out an Interim Agreement freezing
only certain strategic offensive systems
and leaving aside other systems for con-
sideration in a further agreement.
This left for resolution the precise level
of ABMs and the scope of those offensive
weapons to be included in an initial
agreement. Progress was made during the
next year on these matters and on tech-
nical questions so that by the time of the
summit meeting in Moscow only a few
key issues remained.
The ABM solution was to limit both
sides to two sites. The United States would
continue construction of an ABM site in
Grand Forks, North Dakota, for the pro-
tection of an ICBM field, while the Soviet
Union would have the right to deploy a
similar site. The Soviet Union would re-
tain the ABM site already deployed
around Moscow, and we would have the
right to build a similar site around Wash-
ington. Both sides would have essentially
the same systems and would be limited to
an ABM level low enough to preclude a
heavy defense of national territory-the
mode of ABM deployment that could be
most strategically destabilizing.
Defining which offensive systems would
be frozen in an interim agreement proved
more difficult. The Soviet Union wished
to include ICBMs only. We pressed for the
inclusion of both ICBMs and SLBMs.
These were active Soviet programs; the
purpose of SALT, in our view, was to
break the momentum of unconstrained
growth in strategic systems. Furthermore,
since we had no active building programs
in these categories, the numerical gap
would widen without an agreement.
A freeze on ICBM and sea-based bal-
listic missile systems was clearly in the
United States interest. I used my direct
channel to the Soviet leaders to urge the
inclusion of SLBMs in the Interim Agree-
ment. We finally reached agreement in
late April 1972 when the Soviet leaders
accepted a proposal to place a ceiling on
their SLBM force. The final details were
negotiated at the summit the following
month.
The Provisions of the Agreements. The
highlights of the two agreements are as
follows:
494
