Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 17 [124]
cil of Economic Advisers; William P. Clements,
Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense; and Thomas
M. Thawley, Commissioner of Property Man-
agement and Disposal, General Services
Administration.
124 Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Giulio
Andreotti of Italy. April 17, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister and ladies and
gentlemen:
There are many reasons why we are
very honored to welcome the Prime Min-
ister to Washington on this occasion. One
of them is that we think of the great debt
that we in America owe to Italy and par-
ticularly to those of Italian descent. We
think of the debt we owe in the field of
art, music, religion, but most of all, in
terms just of people, the millions of
peo-
ple who are proud of their Italian back-
ground, but who are also proud to be
Americans.
We have, of course, an example of what
those of Italian background have con-
tributed to our Nation in our Ambassador
to Italy-businessman, Governor, Cab-
inet officer, now Ambassador-this indi-
cates how in field after field those of
Italian background have enriched Amer-
ica, have added to our leadership, and
have helped to make us a great people
and a great country.
Mr. Prime Minister, we are also hon-
ored to welcome you because of your
position of leadership, strong leadership,
of one of America's strongest friends and
best allies in the world. We have stood
together since the end of World War II.
We shall stand together in peace in the
years ahead, and as I think of the subjects
that we will be discussing today, the sub-
jects of security, of trade, areas that will
contribute to peace, not only in Europe
and the Mediterranean but in the world,
but will also contribute to prosperity, a
better life for the people of Italy and the
people of America, the people of the
world, I realize how much our talks can
contribute to those goals.
As we meet during these 2 days, I am
sure it will some day be recorded that
Italy and the United States on this oc-
casion, not only renewed an old friend-
ship and reasserted it, but we began the
structure of a new relationship, not only
between the United States and Italy but
between the United States and the new
Europe, a new relationship which can
bring a better life to all of our people on
both sides of the Atlantic.
So, Mr. Prime Minister, for these and
many other reasons, as you come here to
the White House, you receive not only a
warm welcome here, but every place you
go in America, the hearts of America will
go out to you and the people you
represent.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House where
Prime Minister Andreotti was given a formal
welcome with full military honors.
See also Item 126.
The Prime Minister responded in Italian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President:
I am very grateful for the warm welcome
which you just gave me and for the repeated
invitation which you sent me to come to the
United States.
I share with you this deep sense of connec-
tion and of ties which we have between our
297
