[3] Jan. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
3 Statement About the Redirection of Executive Branch
Management. January 5, 1973
THE NEED to revitalize and streamline
the Federal Government in preparation
for America's third century is one of the
most urgent imperatives confronting this
Administration and the Congress as we
approach the Bicentennial year that be-
gins less than 3 years from now.
Americans can feel in their everyday
lives the effects of a Federal establish-
ment that in recent decades has become
increasingly wasteful, inefficient, and ex-
pensive, more and more meddlesome in
the affairs of individuals and lower levels
of government, and too often unrespon-
sive both to the people whom it exists to
serve and to the Presidents whom the
people elect to administer it.
NEEDED: EXECUTIVE REFORM
This is why I early proclaimed reform
as a watchword of my Administration.
This is why I moved to rescue the Postal
Service from political pressures and
bureaucratic tangles. This is why I com-
missioned wide-ranging studies by the
President's Advisory Council on Executive
Organization in 1969. This is why I fol-
lowed up on those studies by establishing
the Office of Management and Budget,
the Domestic Council, and the Environ-
mental Protection Agency by reorganiza-
tion plans in 1970, and by proposing legis-
lation early in 1971 to replace seven
outmoded, constituency-oriented Cabinet
departments and a number of independ-
ent agencies with four streamlined, goal-
oriented departments fitted to the needs
of the future.
During the 19 months that these reor-
ganization proposals were before the 92d
Congress, valuable groundwork for their
enactment was laid in hearings and staff
work, and refinements to the legislation
were added by the Administration. Al-
though progress fell short of my hopes, I
am determined to continue building on
that progress by resubmitting similar legis-
lation to the Congress in 1973.
I trust that the Members of the House
and Senate received the same message
that I did when we went to the people
last fall-the message that Americans are
fed up with wasteful, musclebound gov-
ernment in Washington and anxious for
change that works—and I hope that both
Houses will respond constructively to this
new opportunity to work with us in pro-
ducing such change.
WHAT CAN BE DONE NOW
During the past few weeks I have had
extensive discussions with outgoing and
incoming members of the Cabinet and
with many other knowledgeable individ-
uals about how we can do a better job of
managing the affairs of government over
the next 4 years. I have also had the bene-
fit of studies prepared by all departmental
executives pursuant to my request that
each consider ways of improving his own
operations.
The principal roadblocks to better gov-
ernment which we have identified in this
review process are the same ones that
prompted my 1971 reorganization pro-
posals to the Congress. One problem is
that most of today's major governmental
goals and activities cross existing depart-
2
