Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
cal, and cultural contacts with them. Mu-
tual benefit and reciprocity are govern-
ing principles.
As the postwar rigidity between East-
ern and Western Europe eases, peoples in
both areas expect to see the benefits of
relaxation in their daily lives. These aspi-
rations are fully justified. An era of co-
operation in Europe should produce a va-
riety of new relationships not just between
governments but between organizations,
institutions, business firms, and people in
all walks of life. If peace in Europe is to be
durable, its foundation must be broad.
My visits to Romania in 1969, Yugo-
slavia in 1970, and Poland in 1972 were
designed to help open the door to these
broader relationships.
During my visit to Warsaw last June,
I agreed with the Polish leaders to in-
creased U.S.-Polish trade and exchanges
in science, technology, culture, tourism,
and transportation. A joint American-
Polish trade commission has been estab-
lished. After our governments had
reciprocally agreed to export financing ar-
rangements, I determined that Export-
Import Bank credits should be made
available for transactions with Poland.
Other agreements to facilitate trade, in-
crease exchanges in science and tech-
nology, and improve consular facilities
also have been signed.
Secretary of State Rogers' visit in July
to Yugoslavia reaffirmed our long-stand-
ing and cordial relationship with that
important nonaligned country. Its inde-
pendence, political stability, and eco-
nomic well-being are key factors for
continuing peace in Europe.
Romania's desire for close and mutually
beneficial relations has led during the
past
three years to practical cooperation and
to helpful consultations, including my visit
to Bucharest and President Ceauşescu's
trip to Washington. Last year we approved
the extending of guarantees to private in-
vestment in Romania, and I continue to
hope that the Congress will provide au-
thority to extend Most Favored Nation
tariff treatment to that country. In De-
cember we signed the most comprehensive
cultural and scientific exchange agree-
ment in the history of our relations with
Romania.
Last summer Secretary Rogers signed
consular conventions with both Romania
and Hungary. His visit to Budapest and
the subsequent settlement of the long-
standing United States claims against
Hungary have improved prospects for
more normal relations.
We remain ready to establish construc-
tive relationships on a reciprocal basis
with all countries in Eastern Europe. Dif-
ferences in social, economic, and political
systems exist, and must be acknowledged
frankly. But they will not bar our coopera-
tion with any country that seeks it.
THE OUTLOOK
In 1972, the face of world politics
changed dramatically. But one constant
factor in this changing pattern has been
the close relationship among the Atlantic
allies. It has been true, however, that as
the relaxation of East-West tensions be-
came more pronounced, some of our allies
questioned whether the United States
would remain committed to Europe or
would instead pursue a new balance of
power in which the older alignments
would be diluted and distinctions between
allies and adversaries would disappear.
Apprehensions may be inevitable in a pe-
riod of great international change after a
long period of confrontation. As relations
31-870 O - 75
- 30
415
