[119] Apr. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The text of the convention and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
H (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
this Convention and consent to its
ratification.
The White House,
April 13, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
120 Remarks at a Reception for the Chiefs of Delegations
to the General Assembly of the Organization of
American States. April 13, 1973
Mr. Secretary and ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Nixon and I are very honored
to welcome those who are attending this
historic conference of the Organization of
American States.
I have followed your proceedings to
date with very great interest, and as one
columnist summed it up, the proceedings
have been characterized by a combination
of frustration and expectation. I hope
that my brief remarks tonight will not add
to the frustration, but may, perhaps, give
you reason for more expectation.
Let me speak quite frankly to members
of the American family. During the year
1972, when the journeys to Peking and
Moscow took place, and during the past
4 years when we have had the great prob-
lems involved in Southeast Asia, there has
been a tendency throughout this hemi-
sphere to think that the United States is
so interested in and so obsessed with other
problems that it is not concerned with
the problems of our closest friends and
neighbors. If that impression was created,
it certainly was not intended on my part.
I am the first President of the United
States ever to have visited all of the na-
tions of the American Hemisphere before
becoming President, and I consider the
policy of my country insofar as it relates
to the problems of this hemisphere to be
of the highest importance, not of the sec-
ond level of importance, and in this year
1973, I hope that we can demonstrate
effectively that that is the case.
We shall continue progress in other
areas of the world which is essential if
we are to have world peace, but we know
that a sound foreign policy can only be
based on good relations and better rela-
tions with our closest friends and our
closest neighbors in this hemisphere.
We have made a beginning in one area.
You will recall that it was 2 years ago
that we spoke of the necessity of moving
forward with general tariff preferences,
and now in the trade legislation that we
have submitted to the Congress, we be-
lieve that this year we have a very good
chance to get that through the Congress.
And we welcome the initiatives that this
organization has undertaken to develop
new policies to suit the times in which we
live.
To demonstrate that we have an equal
interest, the Secretary of State, who has
traveled to all the continents of the world
in the past 4 years, will be making a jour-
ney to Latin America and will report,
when he returns, with recommendations
for action for better relations with our
friends to the south, and I ask all of the
leaders of your countries to speak to him
286
