[104] Apr. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
104 Annual Message to the Congress on the District of
Columbia Budget. April 2, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting for your con-
sideration the budget of the District of
Columbia for fiscal year 1974, together
with a supplementary budget request
covering necessary additional expenses for
fiscal year 1973.
These budget proposals reflect views
expressed by citizens of the District of
Columbia at City Council budget hear-
ings and have been examined by the
Mayor and the City Council in accord-
ance with their responsibilities under Re-
organization Plan No. 3 of 1967. The
Office of Management and Budget has
also reviewed these proposals as specified
in the District of Columbia Revenue Act
of 1970.
As a result of prudent and effective
fiscal management on the part of the
municipal government, this 1974 budget
will provide adequately for District needs
during the coming year without requiring
either additional Federal funds or in-
creased city revenue. The fiscal year 1974
proposals call for the expenditure of
$841.2 million in operating funds and
$150 million in capital funds.
Timely Congressional action last year
on the District's 1973 budget was of great
assistance to city officials in planning and
executing sound programs to serve the
people of Washington. I urge the Con-
gress again to act expeditiously on the
District budget for 1974-
The White House,
April 2, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released
at San Clemente, Calif.
105 Remarks at the Conclusion of Discussions With
President Thieu of the Republic of Vietnam.
April 3, 1973
Mr. President and ladies and gentlemen:
As our joint communique indicates,
President Thieu and I have had very con-
structive talks with regard to how we shall
work together in the years ahead, working
for the program of peace which we now
hope will all be the wave of the future, not
only for the Republic of Vietnam but for
all of the countries in Indochina.
Mr. President, we have been allies in a
long and difficult war, and now you can
be sure that we stand with you as we con-
tinue to work together to build a lasting
peace.
This is a great goal for our two peoples,
and I am very happy that we could have
had these extended talks in developing
programs that will achieve that goal.
We wish you well as you go on to Wash-
ington and as you return to your own
country, and we look forward to the time
when we shall meet again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 pm. on the
grounds of his residence at San Clemente, Calif.
See also Item 102.
President Thieu responded as follows:
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am very happy to have a few minutes with
250
