[149] May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
includes safeguards to ensure that it
operates in a responsible manner.
America's system of law now requires
equal treatment for all in our courts of
criminal justice. It is no less important
that equal access be afforded those who
seek redress through our civil laws.
We propose no special favors for any
group in our society, nor do we seek to
mandate the use of the legal system to the
exclusion of other social institutions as
instruments of social progress. We pro-
pose, simply, to protect and preserve a
basic right of all Americans.
150 Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Canadian Agreement for Promotion of Safety on the
Great Lakes by Means of Radio. May 11, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Agreement Be-
tween the United States of America and
Canada for Promotion of Safety on the
Great Lakes by Means of Radio, 1973,
signed at Ottawa on February 26, 1973.
I also transmit for the information of the
Senate, the report of the Department of
State with respect to the Agreement.
This Agreement will, upon entry into
force, terminate the 1952 Agreement for
the Promotion of Safety on the Great
Lakes by Means of Radio between the
United States and Canada and consti-
tutes a significant modernization thereof.
This new Agreement will make a valu-
able contribution to the protection of lives
and property on the Great Lakes. I rec-
ommend that the Senate give early and
favorable consideration to the Agreement
and give its advice and consent to
ratification.
The White House,
May 11, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the agreement and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
J (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
151 Statement on Signing a Bill To Improve the
Rural Electrification and Telephone Program.
May 11, 1973
THIRTY-EIGHT years ago today,
President Franklin Roosevelt signed Exec-
utive Order 7037 to create the Rural
Electrification Administration. On this
anniversary date, I am pleased to sign
into law S. 394, a bill making significant
improvements in the REA program.
When the Federal Government first
moved to assist in bringing electricity to
rural America through low-cost loans,
only 10 percent of the country's farms
and rural areas had central station electric
service. Today, 99 percent of the farms in
America have such service. Because of
these changing conditions, I could not in
good conscience continue to ask the
American taxpayer to subsidize a need
which no longer exists in its original form.
528
