[89] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world's markets rather than shrink
from it. Those who would have us turn
inward, hiding behind a shield of import
restrictions of indefinite duration, might
achieve short-term gains and benefit cer-
tain groups, but they would exact a high
cost from the economy as a whole. Those
costs would be borne by all of us in the
form of higher prices and lower real in-
come. Only in response to unfair competi-
tion, or the closing of markets abroad to
our goods, or to provide time for adjust-
ment, would such restrictive measures be
called for.
My approach is based both on my
strong faith in the ability of Americans
to compete, and on my confidence that all
nations will recognize their own vital
interest in lowering economic barriers and
applying fairer and more effective trading
rules.
The fact that most of these comments
are addressed to the role of our Govern-
ment should not divert attention from the
vital role which private economic activity
will play in resolving our current prob-
lems. The cooperation and the initiative
of all sectors of our economy are needed
to increase our productivity and to keep
our prices competitive. This is essential
to our international trading position. Yet
there are certain necessary steps which
only the Government can take, given the
worldwide scope of trading activity and
the need for broad international agree-
ment to expand trade fairly and effec-
tively. I am determined that we shall take
those steps.
I know that the American people and
their representatives in the Congress can
be counted on to rise to the challenge of
the changing world economy. Together
we must do what is needed to further the
prosperity of our country, and of the
world in which we live.
The White House,
March 22, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The President's message, together with
the first annual report of the Council on Inter-
national Economic Policy, is printed in "Inter-
national Economic Report of the President,
Transmitted to the Congress March 1973"
(Government Printing Office, 94 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report
by Peter M. Flanigan, Assistant to the Presi-
dent and Executive Director of the Council on
International Economic Policy.
90 Statement About the Vietnam Veteran.
March 24, 1973
AS THE DAY approaches when all our
military forces will be withdrawn from
Vietnam and all of our POW's will have
returned home, it is appropriate that we
turn our attention to the debt we owe to
those who served America in this long and
difficult war.
No group of American fighting men was
ever called on to demonstrate their
bravery, their endurance, or their love of
country under more trying circumstances
than those gallant Americans who served
in Vietnam.
A few weeks ago, an inspiring voice
summed up their indomitable spirit. As
Capt. Jeremiah Denton, the first of our
returning prisoners of war, stepped off the
plane and saluted the American flag, he
said: "We are happy to have the op-
portunity to serve our country under dif-
220
