Richard Nixon, 1973
May 22 [162]
to the most highly classified security
materials.
There was no way to carry forward
these diplomatic initiatives unless further
leaks could be prevented. This required
finding the source of the leaks.
In order to do this, a special program of
wiretaps was instituted in mid-1969 and
terminated in February 1971. Fewer than
20 taps, of varying duration, were in-
volved. They produced important leads
that made it possible to tighten the secu-
rity of highly sensitive materials. I au-
thorized this entire program. Each indi-
vidual tap was undertaken in accordance
with procedures legal at the time and in
accord with longstanding precedent.
The persons who were subject to these
wiretaps were determined through co-
ordination among the Director of the
FBI, my Assistant for National Security
Affairs, and the Attorney General. Those
wiretapped were selected on the basis of
access to the information leaked, mate-
rial in security files, and evidence that
developed as the inquiry proceeded.
Information thus obtained was made
available to senior officials responsible for
national security matters in order to cur-
tail further leaks.
THE 1970 INTELLIGENCE PLAN
In the spring and summer of 1970,
another security problem reached critical
proportions. In March a wave of bomb-
ings and explosions struck college cam-
puses and cities. There were 400 bomb
threats in one 24-hour period in New York
City. Rioting and violence on college
campuses reached a new peak after the
Cambodian operation and the tragedies
at Kent State and Jackson State. The
1969-70 school year brought nearly 1,800
campus demonstrations and nearly 250
cases of arson on campus. Many colleges
closed. Gun battles between guerrilla-
style groups and police were taking place.
Some of the disruptive activities were re-
ceiving foreign support.
Complicating the task of maintaining
security was the fact that, in 1966, certain
types of undercover FBI operations that
had been conducted for many years had
been suspended. This also had substan-
tially impaired our ability to collect for-
eign intelligence information. At the same
time, the relationships between the FBI
and other intelligence agencies had been
deteriorating. By May 1970, FBI Director
Hoover shut off his agency's liaison with
the CIA altogether.
On June 5, 1970, I met with the Direc-
tor of the FBI (Mr. Hoover), the Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency (Mr.
Richard Helms), the Director of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency (Gen. Donald
V. Bennett), and the Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency (Adm. Noel Gay-
ler). We discussed the urgent need for
better intelligence operations. I appointed
Director Hoover as chairman of an inter-
agency committee to prepare recommen-
dations.
On June 25, the committee submitted
a report which included specific options
for expanded intelligence operations, and
on July 23 the agencies were notified by
memorandum of the options approved.
After reconsideration, however, prompted
by the opposition of Director Hoover, the
agencies were notified 5 days later, on
July 28, that the approval had been
rescinded. The options initially approved
had included resumption of certain in-
telligence operations which had been sus-
549
