[80] Mar. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
they were conducting their investigations
previously in what was called the Water-
gate matter.
As far as these investigations are con-
cerned, there are all kinds of information,
charges, et cetera, et cetera, that have
been made and will be made in the future.
I could comment upon them. Mr. Ziegler
could in the future. I will not. He will not.
And the reason that we will not is that
when the committee completes its inves-
tigation, we will then have comment, if
we consider it appropriate to do so. But
it is the right of the committee to conduct
the investigation. All the facts can come
out.
I have confidence in all of the White
House people who have been named. I
will express that confidence again. But I
am not going to comment on any individ-
ual matter that the committee may go
into.
Let me say, with regard to the commit-
tee, too, I do not intend to raise questions
about its conduct. I have been very
pleased to note that Senator Ervin--at
least this is the way I read what he says-
has indicated that the investigation will
be bipartisan, that it will look into charges
that have been made against both elec-
tion campaigns, and that is as it should be.
He has also indicated that he, as a great
constitutional lawyer, will accept no hear-
say, that he will not tolerate any guilt by
innuendo, he will not tolerate any guilt
by association.
As long as the committee conducts its
investigations with those very high guide-
lines-guidelines I tried to follow, inci-
dentally, in the Hiss case; not perhaps as
well as I might have, but I did what many
thought was pretty well-but in any
event, as long as it is conducted that way,
I do not intend to make any statements
with regard to matters before the com-
mittee. That is for the committee to look
into.
PLANS FOR PRESIDENTIAL TRAVEL ABROAD
[7] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us
your travel plans outside of the United
States during 1973?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have previ-
ously indicated that I had no immediate
travel plans outside the United States. I
have received recommendations from the
State Department and from the NSC for
what they consider to be urgent travel,
one, to Europe, because of our interest in
NATO; second, to Latin America, be-
cause I have not yet had the opportunity
to go to Latin America; and third, to
Africa, because I have not traveled there.
I do not mean to suggest by that that
travel by the President to these places is
absolutely indispensable to foreign policy,
but I think this is the concern that many
of our foreign policy experts in the State
Department and the NSC, the concern
they have. They feel that the enormous
interest that has been created by going
to Peking and going to Moscow indicates
that we don't care about our neighbors
in the Western Hemisphere, we don't care
about our friends in Africa, and we do not
care about our friends in Europe as well.
Incidentally, Japan is another that is on
the list.
Now, how we will be able to work some
of these trips in, I do not know. I would
suggest that we are considering the pos-
sibility of a trip sometime during the
summer or shortly before the summer be-
gins, but we have not yet made a decision
because there are so many other things
208
