Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 29 [98]
Let us provide these men with the
veterans benefits and the job opportuni-
ties they have earned. Let us honor them
with the respect they deserve. And I say
again tonight, let us not dishonor those
who served their country by granting
amnesty to those who deserted America.
Tonight I want to express the appreci-
ation of the Nation to others who helped
make this day possible. I refer to you, the
great majority of Americans listening to
me tonight, who, despite an unprece-
dented barrage of criticism from a small
but vocal minority, stood firm for peace
with honor. I know it was not easy for
you to do so.
We have been through some difficult
times together. I recall the time in No-
vember 1969 when hundreds of thousands
of demonstrators marched on the White
House, the time in April 1970 when I
found it necessary to order attacks on
Communist bases in Cambodia, the time
in May 1972 when I ordered the mining
of Haiphong and airstrikes on military
targets in North Vietnam in order to stop
a massive Communist offensive in South
Vietnam, and then-and this was perhaps
the hardest decision I have made as Presi-
dent-on December 18, 1972, when our
hopes for peace were so high and when
the North Vietnamese stonewalled us at
the conference table, I found it necessary
to order more airstrikes on military tar-
gets in North Vietnam in order to break
the deadlock.
On each of these occasions, the voices
of opposition we heard in Washington
were so loud they at times seemed to be
the majority. But across America, the
overwhelming majority stood firm against
those who advocated peace at any price-
even if the price would have been defeat
and humiliation for the United States.
Because you stood firm-stood firm for
doing what was right-[Air Force Lt.]
Colonel [George G.] McKnight was able
to say for his fellow POW's, when he re-
turned home a few days ago, "Thank
you for bringing us home on our feet in-
stead of on our knees."
Let us turn now to some of our prob-
lems at home. Tonight I ask your support
in another battle. But we can be thankful
this is not a battle in war abroad, but a
battle we must win if we are to build a new
prosperity without war and without in-
flation at home.
What I refer to is the battle of the
budget-not just the battle over the Fed-
eral budget, but even more important, the
battle of your budget, the family budget
of every home in America.
One of the most terrible costs of war
is inflation. The cost of living has sky-
rocketed during and after every war
America has been engaged in. We recog-
nized this danger 4 years ago. We have
taken strong action to deal with it. As a
result of our policies, we have cut the
rate of inflation in half from the high
point it reached in 1969 and 1970. And
today, our rate of inflation in the United
States is the lowest of that of any indus-
trial nation in the world.
But these positive statistics are small
comfort to a family trying to make both
ends meet. And they are no comfort at all
to the housewife who sees meat prices
soaring every time she goes to the market.
The major weak spot in our fight against
inflation is in the area of meat prices. I
have taken action to increase imports
from abroad and production at home.
This will increase the supply of meat, and
it will help bring prices down later this
year.
But what we need is action that will
235
