Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 30 [100]
as we think of him, the second President,
and all of those that have followed and
lived in this house, we get a sense of how
we began. We get a sense of the Federal-
State system, and we also understand how
far we have come away from it. It doesn't
make any difference whether you take
Adams, the Federalist, or Jefferson, the
man who was the Democrat, or, as a mat-
ter of fact, he was first called a Republi-
can, which shows you how things have
changed. But, in any event, Jefferson or
Andrew Jackson or John Quincy Adams,
those deadly rivals, or up through the years
even to the beginning of the 20th century,
you will find that there was a deep belief
in the federal system. There was a deep
confidence in the responsibility and also
the ability of State and local governments.
Up until the 20th century, there was a
feeling that Washington should respect
that responsibility. We have gotten far
away from it. I do not mean that that has
all been wrong. I am not one that thinks
that everything that happened in the
thirties, during a time the United States
was going through a traumatic experience
economically, that everything that hap-
pened in the forties and the fifties and
the sixties was wrong.
We have found that as this country has
grown, as its problems have become
bigger, that many of these problems can't
be handled by State legislatures in acting
independently. Sometimes we have to act
as a nation, not simply in questions of war
and peace but in many questions that had
to do with government.
This we understand. Republicans be-
lieve in this, Democrats believe in it. This
does not divide us on party lines.
But, on the other hand, as the pendu-
lum sometimes swings too far in one di-
rection, it can swing too far in another
direction. What I think has happened is
that as a result of the concentration of
power in Washington, D.C.-concentra-
tion that was necessary to solve what ap-
peared to be insurmountable national
problems we have found government
and government getting bigger and bigger
and bigger, and government in the State
level, whereas it may be bigger dollar-
wise, having less and less responsibility.
We are trying to turn that around.
In trying to turn that around, we are
not turning away from the problems. We
are turning to a better solution for the
problems, and that gets to you.
The really gut issue here on the special
revenue sharing legislation that we are
sending to Congress is not the amount, be-
cause as the experts will tell you, generally
speaking, no State or local government
will get less, and as a matter of fact, most
will get more under the special revenue
sharing legislation included in our budget
than you got previously for the amounts
that are covered.
But the real gut issue is who makes the
decisions. Are they made by the Congress,
are they made by the President, are they
made by people 3,000 miles away or if
you live in Alaska-6,000 miles away from
where you live, or are they made in the
States and the counties and the cities?
Now what we say is that those deci-
sions with regard to the priorities on
domestic programs should be made by the
local governments, by the State govern-
ments.
I have oversimplified. You can ask the
question, but let me say the reasons that
we believe this are several: First, we have
confidence in State and local govern-
ments. Oh, if you read the editorials in
241
