[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
nomic development without putting un-
due strain on their fragile economic base.
Other industrial countries are increasing
their share of such help. Multilateral par-
ticipation has increased through coopera-
tion among international developmental
institutions, the Asian Development Bank,
and the developed countries. The author-
ity to extend generalized tariff preferences
which I have requested in my new Trade
Reform Bill, would help the developing
countries of the region by increasing the
potential for their exports and thus ex-
panding their capacity to increase im-
ports and speed their development.
This evolving process has brought us
close to our goals-a more balanced
American role in security arrangements in
Asia, an increase in the capacity and will-
ingness of our alliance partners to carry
heavier burdens of responsibility for their
own protection, and a more equitable
sharing of the material and personal costs
of security.
Translation of this doctrine into deeds
has made it unmistakably clear to all that
we are, and will remain, a Pacific power,
maintaining balanced forces in the region.
It has also made clear that, while adjust-
ing our role in defensive alliances, we are
supporting a compensating increase in the
ability of Asians to defend themselves.
These decisions and actions had impor-
tant consequences. I have no doubt that
they influenced Hanoi's decision at long
last to negotiate seriously and reach an
agreement to end the fighting and return
our prisoners. I am convinced that never
would have happened if we had decided
to end our involvement unilaterally, or if
we had not helped South Vietnam to
strengthen and improve its own military
forces.
Our firmness in Southeast Asia and the
maintenance of durable partnerships with
our other Asian allies made it possible for
us to reach out to other adversaries. And
recognizing our determination to remain a
power in the Pacific encouraged them to
respond positively. The most dramatic ex-
ample was, of course, my visit to Peking in
February 1972 and my meetings there
with the leaders of the People's Republic
of China.
LOOKING AHEAD
The rapidly changing face of Asia
presents those who live there, and others
who are deeply involved, with vast op-
portunities and challenges. The transition
from war to peace, the movement from
rigid confrontation to gradual accommo-
dation, are heartening signs of what may
lie ahead. But nothing is assured in this
world, and the promise of progress will be
fulfilled only by determination and posi-
tive actions on the part of all concerned.
If peace is to be made secure, if men
and nations are to be able to continue to
advance in reasonable safety, the largest
responsibility must be borne by the major
powers. It is of critical importance that
they continue to move down the path of
reconciliation, working together to over-
come old bitterness, to settle differences
amicably, and to broaden and deepen
their efforts to develop new forms of co-
operation. Similarly, they must act with
the greatest restraint in dealing with each
other and with smaller nations. The alter-
native is renewed confrontation which
carries with it the threat of disaster-for
those directly involved and for the world.
The smaller nations of Asia will also
have to carry heavy responsibilities. The
key ingredient of sustained economic
progress will continue to be what they do
for themselves. The key ingredient of their
430
