Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
that future prospects can be related to
the perspective of these past four years.
The Negotiating History. In 1969 there
was no dearth of ideas, suggestions, and
proposals on how to limit strategic arms
and conduct the talks. There was never
any question that we would agree to ne-
gotiate. The task was to be sure that we
had a well-defined position for a negotia-
tion of this magnitude. We had to analyze
all conceivable limitations for each of the
major weapons systems to understand how
they would affect our own and Soviet pro-
grams. We also had to determine whether
we could verify compliance with the limi-
tations and by what means. These build-
ing blocks enabled us to examine the stra-
tegic interrelationship caused by various
combinations of limitations. Then we
could go on to identify realistic alterna-
tives and compare them with likely
developments should no agreements be
reached.
Our aim was to be in a position to sus-
tain momentum in the negotiations. Me-
ticulous preparations for the negotiations
gave us the best chance of moving from
general principles through specific pro-
posals to concrete agreements. The fact
that the agreements on such complex and
vital issues were signed only two years
after the first specific proposals were in-
troduced by the United States testifies to
the value of that approach.
We recognized that there would be
deadlocks and that, with national secu-
rity at stake, frequent high level political
decisions would be required. But we
wanted to ensure that when deadlocks did
occur, they would not be over technical
issues, and carefully analyzed alternatives
would be ready for my immediate
decision.
Certain fundamental strategic factors
influenced our preparations and our ini-
tial approach to the talks:
-By 1969 the United States had
stopped building major new offensive
systems in favor of making qualita-
tive improvements in existing sys-
tems. We had no current plan to
deploy additional Intercontinental
Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs), Sub-
marine Launched Ballistic Missiles
(SLBMs), or heavy bombers. The
Soviet Union, on the other hand, was
engaged in a dynamic buildup of
both ICBMs and SLBMs.
-At the same time, both sides were
only in the initial stages of Anti-
Ballistic Missile (ABM) deployment.
The Soviet Union had already de-
ployed a small system to protect its
capital, while most of the U.S. pro-
gram was designed to protect our
retaliatory forces.
-The United States had aircraft de-
ployed at bases abroad and on car-
riers, while the Soviet Union had
medium and intermediate range mis-
siles and bombers capable of attack-
ing our bases and the territory of our
allies.
-There was a vast difference in the
composition of the forces on each
side. The Soviet Union had several
types of ICBMs and was developing
two classes of ballistic missile launch-
ing submarines. The United States
had one basic class of ICBMs, a
modern and more effective submarine
force, and a substantial advantage in
heavy bombers.
These asymmetries meant that defining
strategic equivalence in individual cate-
gories or in a general sense would be tech-
nically complicated and involve signifi-
cant political judgments.
493
