[335] Nov. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
war in Vietnam, but above everything
else, what we want is a peace that will
last.
I saw so many young children here. I
see this one over here, and I saw a little
baby in a mother's arms, and there is one
over there--you see the one with the little
purple sweater and you wonder what
kind of a world they are going to have in
the year 2000, when I won't be here, Mrs.
Nixon will not be here, most of you will
not be here. Is it going to be another war,
or are we going to have peace?
Let me tell you that because we have
opened communication with countries
that we completely disagree with in phi-
losophy--the People's Republic of China
and the Soviet Union-I believe that we
can build a peace that will last, not just 10
years, but will last for a generation and
more to come, because once every gener-
ation in this century we have had a war—
World War I, World War II, Korea,
Vietnam and everybody said, "Well,
that is the last," and it never was. I trust
we can make this the last, but there is only
one way that can happen.
America has got to be strong. America
is the nation that can keep the peace in the
the world. If we have a weak America, the
danger of war will go up. If we have a
strong America, there is a chance that our
children and our grandchildren can grow
up in peace. So help keep America strong,
not just in its arms and not just in its in-
dustry but strong in its spirit, strong in its
patriotism, strong in its love of the great-
est country that civilization has ever
known.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:34 p.m. at
Robins Air Force Base, Warner Robins, Ga.
336 Remarks at Ceremonies in Macon, Georgia, Marking the
100th Anniversary of the Walter F. George School of
Law and the 90th Birthday of Carl Vinson.
November 18, 1973
Dr. Harris and all of the distinguished
guests who are present here today on this
historic occasion:
I am honored to be here for the two
reasons that have been mentioned so well
and so eloquently by all the speakers that
have preceded me: first, because it is the
100th anniversary of a great educational
institution, the Law School of Mercer
University, now the Walter George Law
School; and second, because it is the goth
birthday of a man who has served longer
in the House of Representatives, in the
Congress, than any man in our history,
and one who is a legendary figure for those
who did not know him, and one who is a
loved figure for those like myself who had
the privilege to know him.
Now, in view of the fact that those two
events are being celebrated simulta-
neously, I expected that we would prob-
ably have a very good crowd today, and
the chapel, of course, is full. However, I
also know that this is Atlanta Falcon terri-
tory, and so when I was at the airport, I
asked one of the people there-and there
was quite a big crowd-how come they
were out; why weren't they watching the
football game? And they said "They are
going to play tomorrow night."
966
