Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 20 [84]
effect of many large-scale federally de-
signed programs has been to unduly con-
strict States and localities, preventing
them from directing resources to meet
their problems.
In response to these findings, this Ad-
ministration will take steps during 1973
and 1974 to institute a new program of
manpower revenue sharing within the
existing legislative framework. The new
Manpower Report discusses this much-
needed reform, which will permit States
and localities to use manpower resources
in a manner consistent with their require-
ments.
I commend this report to the careful
attention of the Congress.
The White House,
March 20, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Manpower Re-
port of the President: A Report on Manpower
Requirements, Resources, Utilization, and
Training-Prepared by the United States De-
partment of Labor, Transmitted to the Con-
gress, March 1973" (Government Printing
Office, 253 pp.).
84 Exchange of Remarks With the Co-Chairmen of the
U.S.-U.S.S.R. Joint Commission on Scientific and
Technical Cooperation. March 20, 1973
ACADEMICIAN V. A. TRAPEZNIKOV [Acting
Co-Chairman]. The Academician (V. A.
Kirillin) wasn't well. Then he had an
operation. Now he is up and about and in
about a month's time he will be working
again.
THE PRESIDENT. Give him my best
wishes.
ACADEMICIAN TRAPEZNIKOV. He was
very sorry he could not come on this trip,
and he extends to the President his best
regards.
DR. H. GUYFORD STEVER. Mr. Presi-
dent, Academician Trapeznikov has done
a superb job in picking up the Chairman-
ship and we are making great progress.
We have already agreed to six major
areas and we are exploring six more
areas in science and technology. These
range from energy, water resources, agri-
culture, use of computers in cities in a
large-scale manner. It is going very well.
ACADEMICIAN TRAPEZNIKOV. The work
which we are doing is regarded as very
important. You do remember the very
important agreement signed, and we feel
that each side will benefit from it.
THE PRESIDENT. Signed in Moscow.
DR. STEVER. Yes. In fact, in addition
to the specific agreement that we are
working on this trip, the signing of the
agreement on science and technology,
plus the other initiatives that you have
taken, have triggered a great amount of
cooperation in science and research, ex-
change of technical data with firms. And
I think the progress is excellent.
NOTE: The President met with Dr. Stever,
Director of the National Science Foundation,
Academician V. A. Trapeznikov, First Deputy
Chairman of the U.S.S.R. State Committee for
Science and Technology, and Soviet Ambas-
sador A. F. Dobrynin at 12 noon in the Oval
Office at the White House. Academician Tra-
peznikov spoke in Russian, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter.
The Commission met in Washington from
March 19 to 21.
215
