Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 30 [133]
and released with the President's statement,
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is with deep regret and after long and
searching thought that I hereby submit my
resignation as Attorney General, to take effect
upon the appointment and qualification of my
successor.
Even though, as you know, I had previously
indicated a desire to leave the government this
year for family and financial reasons, the cir-
cumstances surrounding the disclosures made
to me on Sunday, April 15, 1973 by Assistant
Attorney General Petersen, United States At-
torney Titus, and Assistant United States At-
torney Silbert, dictate this decision at this time.
Those disclosures informed me, for the first
time, that persons with whom I had had close
personal and professional associations could be
involved in conduct violative of the laws of the
United States. Fair, and impartial enforcement
of the law requires that a person who has not
had such intimate relationships be the Attorney
General of the United States.
It is not for me to comment now on the
tragedy that has occurred. However, I will al-
ways be mindful of your charge to me from
the very beginning that the entire matter be
fully investigated and that the full effect of
the law be administered no matter who it might
involve or affect. You can be proud of the De-
partment of Justice for the manner in which it,
from the beginning, has responded to that
charge.
Finally, let me express my deep personal ap-
preciation to you for having appointed me the
68th Attorney General of the United States.
It is the greatest honor I shall ever have. I shall
always be humbly proud to have been a part of
the Department of Justice and to have had the
opportunity to serve my country as a part of
your Administration.
Sincerely,
RICHARD G. KLEINDIENST
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
Dear Mr. President:
As you know, I had hoped and expected to
have had an earlier opportunity to clear up
various allegations and innuendos that have
been raised in connection with matters related
to the Watergate case. It now appears that this
process may consume considerable time. Mean-
while, there is apparently to be no interruption
in the flood of stories arising every day from
all sorts of sources.
I fully agree with the importance of a com-
plete investigation by the appropriate author-
ities of all the factors that may be involved;
but am deeply concerned that, in the process,
it has become virtually impossible under these
circumstances for me to carry on my regular
responsibilities in the White House.
It is imperative that the work of the Office
of the President not be impeded and your staff
must be in a position to focus their attention
on the vital areas of domestic and international
concern that face you, rather than being di-
verted by the daily rumors and developments in
the Watergate case. For these reasons, I sub-
mit my resignation as Assistant to the President.
I intend to cooperate fully with the investi-
gation and will at my request be meeting this
week for that purpose with the U.S. Attorneys
and with the counsel to the Senate Select
Committee.
I am convinced that, in due course, I will
have the opportunity not just to clear up any
allegations or implications of impropriety but
also to demonstrate that I have always met the
high and exacting standards of integrity which
you have so clearly and properly demanded of
all who serve on the White House staff.
I have full confidence that when the truth
is known the American people will be totally
justified in their pride in the Office of the Presi-
dent and in the conduct of that office by Presi-
dent Nixon.
Respectfully,
H. R. HALDEMAN
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
Dear Mr. President:
For the past two weeks it has become in-
creasingly evident that, regardless of the actual
facts, I have been a target of public attack. The
nature of my position on your staff has always
demanded that my conduct be both apparently
and actually beyond reproach. I have always
327
