Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
conduct our individual policies on the
basis of self-interest alone, taking our al-
liance for granted. We have an obligation
not to allow our short-term policies to
jeopardize our long-term unity, or to al-
low competitive objectives to threaten the
common goals of our political association.
CHALLENGES FOR THE FUTURE
Mature countries do not expect to avoid
disputes or conflicts of interest. A mature
alliance relationship, however, means fac-
ing up to them on the basis of mutuality.
It means seriously addressing the under-
lying causes, not the superficial public
events. We are now moving in this direc-
tion. We must carry it forward.
This means certain obligations on both
sides.
In the economic area, the most urgent
and divisive area, we both have an obliga-
tion to address and solve the common
problem of our trade imbalance. We have
a responsibility to the international system
to normalize the bilateral economic rela-
tionship that bulks so large in the interna-
tional economy. We have an obligation to
keep the specific commitments made to
each other. We have an opportunity to ex-
plore positive approaches to averting
clashes in the future. We have a respon-
sibility to provide positive leadership in
the urgent efforts at multilateral reform.
In both the political and the economic
dimensions, we have an obligation as al-
lies to pursue our individual objectives in
ways that serve also our common pur-
poses. Whether the issue be the world-
wide energy problem, or economic or
political relations with Communist coun-
tries, or the provision of resources to de-
veloping countries, there are competitive
interests necessarily involved, but also an
overriding collective interest in a stable
global environment. It will require a con-
scious effort of political will not to make
the key decisions according to short-term
economic or political advantage. This is
more than a problem of bureaucratic
management; it is a test of statesmanship.
The United States will be sensitive
to Japan's unique perspective on the
world and Japan's special relationship
with the United States. To this end, we
have redoubled our efforts at consulta-
tion. This consultation is institutionalized
at several levels and in several chan-
nels-through our able Ambassadors;
through high-level political consultations
such as Dr. Kissinger's three visits to
Tokyo in 1972 and 1973; through meet-
ings at the Foreign Minister level such as
Mr. Ohira's discussions with Secretary
Rogers in Washington in October;
through regular Cabinet-level meetings
of the Japan-U.S. Committee on Trade
and Economic Affairs; and through the
three meetings I have had with Japanese
Prime Ministers since taking office and
the fourth I expect to have this year.
This interchange has a symbolic value in
reaffirming a political commitment and
also a tangible value in giving it substance.
The same dedication to mutual confi-
dence and close consultation on the part
of Japan will be essential as she marks
out her independent paths. The complex-
ity of the new diplomacy puts a premium
on our steadiness and reliability in all our
relationships, particularly with each
other.
Japan's foreign policy is for Japan to
decide. Both her security and her eco-
nomic interests, however, link her destiny
firmly to that of the free world. I am con-
fident that the political leaders on both
sides of the Pacific are deeply conscious of
425
