Richard Nixon, 1973
June 29 [190]
result in a saving of an estimated 15-20
percent in its use of electricity.
Just as the Government can obtain
energy-efficient automobiles, private citi-
zens can do the same. Nearly three-
quarters of the gasoline used in America is
consumed by automobiles.
Those who drive automobiles can also
assist by driving more slowly. A car travel-
ing 50 miles per hour uses 20 to 25 percent
less gasoline per mile than the same car
traveling 70 miles per hour. Carpooling
and using public transportation will result
in further fuel savings.
In order to help reduce driving speeds,
I am today taking the additional step of
writing to each of the Nation's Governors,
asking them to work with their State legis-
latures to reduce highway speed limits in
a manner consistent with safety and effi-
ciency, as well as with energy needs.
I also continue to urge the Congress to
pass highway-mass transit legislation
which would provide States and localities
flexibility to choose between capital in-
vestment in highways or mass transit.
Diversion of some commuter traffic from
single occupant automobiles to mass
transit will result in significant energy and
environmental benefits and, at the same
time, permit the highways to be operated
in the efficient manner for which they
were designed.
Energy conservation is not just sound
policy for the country, it is also good eco-
nomics for the consumer.
Changing to a more efficient auto-
mobile, for example, could produce sav-
ings of as much as 1,000 gallons of gas
in
the course of a year. A savings of 1,000
gallons of gas equals a personal savings
of approximately $400.
Cutting down on air-conditioning and
heating, of course, also cuts down on the
family gas or electric or oil bill.
Actions to reduce the rate of growth in
energy demands will also improve our
ability to protect and improve the quality
of our environment.
The conservation of existing energy re-
sources is not a proposal, it is a necessity.
It is a requirement that will remain with
us indefinitely, and it is for this reason
that I believe that the American people
must develop an energy conservation
ethic.
As a matter of simple prudence and
common sense, we must not waste our
resources, however abundant they may
seem. To do otherwise, in a world of
finite resources, reflects adversely upon
what we are as a people and a Nation.
CONCLUSION
We face a challenge in meeting our
energy needs. In the past, the American
people have viewed challenges as an op-
portunity to improve our Nation and to
move forward. The steps I have outlined
above are not meant to be conclusive.
They are part of the ongoing process.
I urge the Congress to act with due
concern for our energy needs by rapid
consideration of all of my legislative pro-
posals in this field, especially my request
to clear the way for the Alaskan pipeline.
Over the coming years it is essential that
we increase our supplies of energy.
I urge the members of the Federal Gov-
ernment to play their role in meeting the
spirit and the letter of my energy con-
servation directives.
I urge private industry to respond with
all the imagination and resourcefulness
that has made this Nation the richest on
Earth.
But the final question of whether we
629
