Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 30 [22]
sonable price and wage behavior to which
we ask business and labor to conform.
Private economic units will be able to de-
termine by themselves whether price or
wage increases are within the standards or
not. They will not require advance ap-
proval from the Government. However,
the Government will maintain the legal
authority, the practical capacity, and the
will to intervene where necessary to stop
action that is unreasonably inconsistent
with the standards. I am asking Congress
to extend the Economic Stabilization Act
for 1 year, to April 30, 1974, to continue
the authority. There should be no doubt
about the fact that the authority will be
used where needed.
An essential part of our anti-inflation
program must be an increase of food sup-
plies to restrain increases of food prices
and bring about reductions where possible.
The combination of natural occurrences
holding down food production in the
United States and abroad with rising
consumers' incomes at home caused a
sharp increase in food prices last year.
These same forces will be at work in the
early part of this year. But we have taken
steps to increase food supplies. Quotas
which previously limited the import of
meat have been suspended. Restrictions
on the acreage planted to major field crops
have been relaxed. An increased amount
of dried milk is being allowed into the
country. Subsidies on agricultural exports
have been eliminated. Grazing of cattle
is being permitted on acreage diverted
from crop production. We have estab-
lished new machinery in the Federal Gov-
ernment to assure that high priority is
given to holding down food prices.
Restraint in budget policy, the new
system of cooperative price and wage con-
trols and special efforts to increase food
supplies, coupled with the productivity
and vigor of the private economy, should
make 1973 another year in which inflation
and unemployment decline and output
rises. But what is at stake in the policies of
1973 is more than economic performance
in 1973. What is at stake is whether we can
make 1973 the prelude to a sustained
period of growth and stability in a free
economy. Since 1968 the Government and
the economy have been largely absorbed
in the negative task of correcting the de-
stabilizing consequences of the financing
of the Vietnam war. That period is almost
over. Now we can stop putting out fires
and turn to building a better economic
order.
We must develop more reliable and
responsible attitudes and methods for
dealing with the Federal budget, so that
it is not perpetually on the margin of an
inflationary explosion. We must prepare
for the end of wage and price controls,
and be willing to show the same courage
in taking them off as was shown in im-
posing them. We must weed out the re-
strictive effects of the large number of
other economic controls exercised by the
Federal Government, most of them having
their origins decades ago, and many of
them interfering with productivity and
production. And we must strengthen the
forces of competition in a vigorous free-
enterprise economy.
Nowhere is the need to make 1973 a
year of economic reform more apparent
than in our international relations. Our
actions of August 15, 1971, put the world
on the path of negotiation for improve-
ment of the international economy. Last
year we made proposals for the reform
of the international financial system, and
these proposals are now the subject of dis-
cussion by high-level officials of the mem-
51
