[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
whose early passage is important but not
so critical that they require action this
year. I would hope that these measures
would be near the top of the legislative
agenda in the future.
One of these bills provides for reor-
ganization of the Federal energy effort.
While energy is one of our Nation's most
pressing problems, and while the preserva-
tion and effective use of our natural re-
sources is an imperative policy goal, it is
presently impossible to administer these
related objectives in a coordinated way.
Our ability to manage our resources and
provide for our needs should not be held
hostage to old forms and institutions.
I have noted repeatedly the need for
thorough reorganization of the executive
branch of the Federal Government. I
believe the need for reorganization is es-
pecially acute in the natural resource area.
I have urged and I urge again the creation
of a Department of Energy and Natural
Resources to permit us to deal with these
questions in a more comprehensive and
more effective manner.
I also again ask the Congress to create
a new, independent Energy Research and
Development Administration so that we
can make the very best use of our research
and development funds in the future. Our
research and development effort could
produce the most helpful solutions to the
energy problem. For that reason. I re-
cently announced plans to initiate a $10
billion Federal effort in this field over the
next five years. No legislative action is
needed by the Congress this year to pro-
vide funding, but it will be necessary for
the Congress to approve such funding in
the years ahead.
Since regulation of atomic energy re-
sources can be better and more fairly per-
formed if it is disengaged from the ques-
tion of their development and promotion,
I have also included in this reorganization
package a separate and independent Nu-
clear Energy Commission to perform these
vital duties.
SITING OF POWER PLANTS
One of the major energy questions we
face in 1973 is whether we can provide
sufficient electric power to light our cities,
cool and heat our homes, and power our
industries in the decades ahead. One of
the solutions to that problem lies in the
increased use of nuclear energy. It is es-
timated that by the year 2000 nuclear
power can provide nearly half of this
country's electrical production.
We now have adequate safeguards to
ensure that nuclear power plants are safe
and environmentally acceptable, but the
way in which we apply those safeguards
sometimes causes unreasonable delays in
construction. Similarly, protracted delays
have been encountered in the siting
of our plants that are powered by
fossil fuels, which still must provide
the majority of our electric generation
capacity over the next three decades. Ac-
cordingly, I have proposed legislation
which would streamline the process for
determining the sites of power plants and
transmission lines while continuing to
provide full protection for public health
and for the environment. This legislation
has been under study for two years, and
I am anxious to get it out of committees
and onto the statute books.
SANTA BARBARA ENERGY RESERVE
It is important to the necessary expan-
sion of our domestic energy resources that
we make more effective use of the vast oil
770
