Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
The peace in Vietnam itself remains
fragile. A period of misunderstandings
and ambiguities was to be expected in the
first months of peace after so many years of
war. The process of reconciliation and
mutual accommodation is bound to take
time. Nevertheless the overall record so
far has been less positive than we had
hoped.
The United States has scrupulously car-
ried out its obligations, and we have urged
all others to do likewise. On those military
elements of the agreement directly affect-
ing us the record has been generally good.
Our listed prisoners have returned from
Indochina. There remains, however, the
difficult task of accounting for all those
missing in action throughout the region,
and we will not rest until this task is com-
pleted. All American and allied military
forces and advisors have been withdrawn
from South Vietnam. We have strictly ob-
served the ceasefire and have given full
cooperation and support to the super-
visory organization. And we began to
clear the mines from all North Vietnam-
ese ports and waterways, a complicated
and time-consuming job.
Observance of the ceasefire is now, of
course, in the hands of the Vietnamese.
Compliance has been spotty, and substan-
tial fighting continues. While violations
and casualties have diminished from the
first weeks, much greater efforts are
needed to stop the conflict completely and
fully stabilize the situation.
The most ominous aspect of the situa-
tion to date has been the continued in-
filtration of North Vietnamese troops in
violation of the Agreement. In blatant
disregard of Articles 7, 15, and 20, Hanoi
has continued to send troops and military
supplies into South Vietnam. It has also
continued its military activities in Laos
and Cambodia in violation of Article 20.
In so doing, it has built up the military
potential of the Communist forces in
South Vietnam. Whether this is a prelude
to another offensive is not clear. What is
clear is that it must cease. We have told
Hanoi, privately and publicly, that we will
not tolerate violations of the Agreement.
On the political front, the two South
Vietnamese parties are now negotiating
in Paris on such subjects as the function-
ing of the National Council of National
Reconciliation, the elections, the issues of
civilian prisoners held by both sides, and
the reduction and demobilization of both
sides' armed forces. We hope that the
South Vietnamese parties make progress
on these issues and settle their differences.
Laos and Cambodia will be treated in
more detail later in this Report. It is im-
portant to point out here that the Vietnam
settlement obligates all foreign countries
to withdraw their forces from these two
countries, cease sending military person-
nel and equipment into the two countries,
and stop using their territories to encroach
on other countries. These obligations are
clear and unconditional. Here, too, Hanoi
has not yet carried out the terms of the
Agreement. We expect North Vietnam to
withdraw its forces from Laos and Cam-
bodia in the near future, and to comply
with the other provisions regarding those
countries. As I have stated repeatedly,
there cannot be stable peace in Vietnam
until its neighbors are also at peace. The
conflict has been indivisible. The peace
must be too.
Countries outside the region have a
strong interest in the maintenance of
peace in Indochina. If the flames of con-
flict flare up again, there will be renewed
395
