[231] Aug. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
tial to provide expanded production by
allowing farmers the freedom to make
production decisions. The bill I am sign-
ing today continues the system of Govern-
ment participation in farm production
but does so in a way which will ensure
administrative flexibility and thus encour-
age larger supplies of farm goods.
The effect of this bill is to set up a new
system of price guarantees for American
farmers. It means that our farmers can
expand production during the current pe-
riod of worldwide food and fiber short-
ages without fear of a serious drop in farm
income. Thus, it will encourage full pro-
duction and dampen inflationary pres-
sures without risking a market disaster for
America's farm families as they respond to
new demands.
This new agriculture law establishes
target prices for farm commodities. But
these target prices are significantly below
present market prices and thus will not
inhibit our efforts to stabilize food prices
for consumers. Indeed, this law should
help in our battle against inflation by en-
couraging American farmers to produce
at full capacity. The cost to taxpayers of
Government payments to farmers will be
reduced and in some cases eliminated dur-
ing periods of strong demand and high
prices such as we are now experiencing.
But even as we await results under the
new act, I have taken a number of actions
to expand food supplies. These include
suspension of meat import quotas, relaxa-
tion of import quotas on nonfat dry milk
and cheese, a 20 percent increase in rice
allotments, and release of about 43 million
"set-aside" acres for grain production.
Next year there will be no set-aside pro-
grams for any farm commodities. Thus,
we will use the provisions of this act to
maximize food production in 1974-
I am asking the Secretary of Agricul-
ture to administer the new system in the
best interests of both the farmer and the
consumer and to report to me regularly
on its effectiveness.
S. 1888 also provides for several changes
in the food stamp program including ex-
panded coverage and higher benefits, and
extends that program through June 30,
1977. In addition, it restores eligibility for
food stamps to certain recipients of sup-
plemental security income benefits, in
order to ensure that they will not suffer
a loss of income under the new system.
While it is generally agreed that people
should not lose benefits in shifting from
the present welfare program to the Sup-
plemental Security Income program, it is
unfortunate that the Congress has chosen
this method of maintaining assistance
levels.
H.R. 1, enacted last October, federal-
ized the public assistance programs for the
aged, blind, and disabled under the new
Supplemental Security Income program.
That law made recipients of the new Fed-
eral benefits ineligible for food stamps, but
made it possible for such recipients to
receive cash in lieu of the bonus value
of food stamps as part of their monthly
checks. It was considered preferable, by
the Congress as well as by the Administra-
tion, to give those in need extra cash,
which they could spend according to their
needs as they best know them.
I am willing to accept a temporary re-
turn to "in-kind" benefits as provided in
this act as a stopgap measure, but I con-
tinue to believe that our long-term goal
should be to provide income assistance in
cash, rather than in food stamps or other
forms of in-kind assistance that rob the
individual of the chance to make his own
spending decisions.
688
