[138] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
originated in the common initiative of
the United States, the European Commu-
nity and Japan, will have a decisive im-
portance for the future liberalization and
development of international trade, for
the improvement of world living stand-
ards, and for the maintenance of peace.
The President and the Chancellor con-
sider the successful course of these nego-
tiations to be a political task of great sig-
nificance in the solution of which their
governments will constructively partici-
pate. They agreed on the importance that
all participants enter the GATT negotia-
tions, which they expect to start in the
fall, with a liberal negotiating concept.
There was agreement that the multi-
lateral negotiations on the reform of
world-wide monetary and trade relations
must constitute another contribution to
a new phase of productive cooperation
between the United States and the Euro-
pean Community in the spirit of a com-
prehensive Atlantic partnership among
equals.
The President and the Chancellor noted
that good cooperation in the monetary
field during the last months facilitated
the solution of the recent monetary crisis.
The initiative and determination shown
in this connection by the governments
concerned have strengthened the pros-
pects of a comprehensive reform.
The President and the Chancellor
underlined the identity of interests in se-
curity and detente in Europe and empha-
sized in this context the continued need
of a balanced military power relation-
ship between West and East. The unity
and solidarity of the Alliance, an ade-
quate presence of US forces in Europe,
and a credible deterrent are indispensable
for this purpose. Both sides agreed that
the negotiations on a mutual and bal-
anced reduction of forces and on the lim-
itation of strategic armaments must meet
these requirements. The President and
the Chancellor shared the conviction that
while seeking to reduce the military con-
frontation in Europe, the capacity of the
Alliance to assure the security of all of
its partners at any time must be pre-
served without qualification.
The President and the Chancellor, in
discussing the broad nature of the At-
lantic partnership during the coming
period, agreed that the relationship must
develop in a way to ensure that each part-
ner contributes appropriately toward the
burden of the common defense. Intensi-
fied cooperation among the European
Alliance partners in the defense field will
be of substantial assistance.
The results produced so far by the
policy of detente pursued by the United
States and the countries of Western
Europe on the one hand and the Soviet
Union and the countries of Eastern Eu-
rope on the other encourage the govern-
ments of the United States and the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany to continue
along the road of negotiations and to re-
spond positively to a constructive policy
on the part of the East. This applies above
all to the preparations for a Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The two governments share the hope that
such a conference will soon come about,
that it will produce tangible humani-
tarian improvements, promote mutual co-
operation and communication and thus
help gradually to overcome the division
of Europe. The President and the Chan-
cellor expressed their satisfaction at the
intensive Atlantic cooperation during the
preparations which should be continued
in close consultation within the Alliance.
They also reviewed the implementation
344
