[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
At the beginning of this period, when
Government found itself unprepared to
respond to the sharp new national aware-
ness of the plight of the disadvantaged,
creation of an institutional structure sepa-
rate from the regular machinery of Gov-
ernment and specifically charged with
helping the poor seemed a wise first step to
take. Thus the Office of Economic Op-
portunity was brought into being in 1964.
A wide range of useful anti-poverty pro-
grams has been conceived and put into
operation over the years by the Office of
Economic Opportunity. Some programs
which got their start within OEO have
been moved out into the operating de-
partments and agencies of the Govern-
ment when they matured, and they are
thriving there. VISTA, for example, be-
came part of ACTION in 1971, and Head
Start was integrated with other activities
focused on the first five years of life un-
der HEW's Office of Child Development.
OEO's other programs have now devel-
oped to a point where they can be simi-
larly integrated.
Accordingly, in keeping with my deter-
mination to make every dollar devoted to
human resources programs return 100
cents worth of real benefits to the people
who most need those benefits, I have de-
cided that most of the anti-poverty activ-
ities now conducted by the Office of Eco-
nomic Opportunity should be delegated
or transferred into the Cabinet depart-
ments relating to their respective fields of
activity. Adhering strictly to statutory pro-
cedures, and requesting Congressional ap-
proval whenever necessary, I shall take
action to effect this change.
This reorganization will increase the
efficiency of the various programs by
grouping them with other functionally
related Federal efforts and by minimizing
the overhead costs which in the past have
diverted too much money from human
needs into staff payrolls and administra-
tive expenses. Funding for the transferred
activities will stay level, or in many cases
will even increase.
The only major OEO program for
which termination of Federal funding is
recommended in my budget is Commu-
nity Action. New funding for Community
Action activities in fiscal year 1974 will
be at the discretion of local communities.
After more than 7 years of existence,
Community Action has had an adequate
opportunity to demonstrate its value
within the communities it serves, and to
build locally based agencies. OEO has
taken steps to help Community Action
agencies put down local roots through a
program of incentives and training, and
has incorporated the basic community ac-
tion concept-participation in programs
by the people whom the programs seek
to serve into all Federal anti-poverty ac-
tivities. Further Federal spending on be-
half of this concept, beyond the $2.8
billion which has been spent on it since
1965, no longer seems necessary or
desirable.
LEGAL SERVICES
One other economic opportunity effort
deserving special mention is the Legal
Services Program. Notwithstanding some
abuses, legal services has done much in its
seven-year history to breathe new life into
the cherished concept of equal justice for
all by providing access to quality legal
representation for millions of Americans
who would otherwise have been denied it
for want of funds.
The time has now come to institu-
tionalize legal services as a permanent,
142
