[137] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
more than anything else that now blocks
the return of price stability. There are
many grounds on which such an appeal
can be based. Prices are high, world de-
mand is strong, and economic conditions
are such that farmers will improve their
incomes by producing more. This is espe-
cially true of animal products-meat,
dairy products, and eggs. Continuously
rising food prices, on the other hand,
would create greater pressure for controls,
pressures which could be hard to resist
even though the controls would hurt con-
sumers as well as farmers.
The country needs more food, and
American farmers have never failed to
deliver when the country needed them.
Although our farmers have had to con-
tend with miserable weather conditions in
recent months, their productive capacity
is still not fully utilized.
Labor and management also can con-
tribute to the fight against inflation by
continuing to improve productivity. Ris-
ing productivity attacks inflation both by
increasing supplies and by holding down
costs. Progress on this front to date has
been encouraging. Since the summer of
1971, output per man-hour has risen 50
percent faster than it has over the long
term. It is imperative that we continue
this excellent performance, even though
it will become more difficult to do so as
the economy reaches higher levels.
Labor and management have also been
contributing to our stabilization efforts
through responsible collective bargaining.
The average size of increases in collective
bargaining agreements was lower in the
first quarter of 1973 than before the new
economic policy began. I am also encour-
aged by the record to date in maintaining
industrial peace. In short, the cooperation
of American labor and management in the
stabilization effort has been outstanding.
The American people look to labor
and management to continue construc-
tive behavior.
Although I believe that prices will not
rise as much in the months ahead as they
did in February and March, price in-
creases will probably be higher than we
would like for some months. We should
be mature enough to recognize that there
is no instant remedy for this problem. We
are dealing with a condition that is world-
wide in scope and indeed has been less
severe and more effectively confronted
here than in most other countries. Work-
ing together, the American people will
solve the problem of inflation, but that
process will require patience, cooperation,
and understanding from us all.
Meanwhile, let us not overlook the
great strengths of our economy. We have
more people at work than ever before,
earning higher real incomes and consum-
ing more goods and services per capita
than at any time in our past. Inflation is
a potential danger to all and a present
hardship for some, but nevertheless the
American people are enjoying the fruits
of an extraordinarily effective economic
system. Any superficially appealing ac-
tions that would disrupt or abandon that
system would ultimately cause far more
damage than they would repair.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 398), approved
April 30, 1973, is Public Law 93-28 (87 Stat.
27).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the eco-
nomic stabilization program by George P.
Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury; Herbert
Stein, Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers; and John T. Dunlop, Director of the
Cost of Living Council.
342
