[79] Mar. 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
79 State of the Union Message to the Congress on Law
Enforcement and Drug Abuse Prevention.
March 14, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
This sixth message to the Congress on
the State of the Union concerns our Fed-
eral system of criminal justice. It discusses
both the progress we have made in im-
proving that system and the additional
steps we must take to consolidate our ac-
complishments and to further our efforts
to achieve a safe, just, and law-abiding
society.
In the period from 1960 to 1968 serious
crime in the United States increased by
122 percent according to the FBI's Uni-
form Crime Index. The rate of increase
accelerated each year until it reached a
peak of 17 percent in 1968.
In 1968 one major public opinion poll
showed that Americans considered law-
lessness to be the top domestic problem
facing the Nation. Another poll showed
that four out of five Americans believed
that "Law and order has broken down in
this country." There was a very real fear
that crime and violence were becoming
a threat to the stability of our society.
The decade of the 1960s was char-
acterized in many quarters by a growing
sense of permissiveness in America-as
well intentioned as it was poorly rea-
soned-in which many people were
reluctant to take the steps necessary to
control crime. It is no coincidence that
within a few years' time, America experi-
enced a crime wave that threatened to
become uncontrollable.
This Administration came to office in
1969 with the conviction that the integ-
rity of our free institutions demanded
stronger and firmer crime control. I
promised that the wave of crime would
not be the wave of the future. An all-out
attack was mounted against crime in the
United States.
-The manpower of Federal enforce-
ment and prosecution agencies was
increased.
-New legislation was proposed and
passed by the Congress to put teeth into
Federal enforcement efforts against orga-
nized crime, drug trafficking, and crime
in the District of Columbia.
-Federal financial aid to State and
local criminal justice systems-a fore-
runner of revenue sharing-was greatly
expanded through Administration budg-
eting and Congressional appropriations,
reaching a total of $1.5 billion in the three
fiscal years from 1970 through 1972.
These steps marked a clear departure
from the philosophy which had come to
dominate Federal crime fighting efforts,
and which had brought America to rec-
ord-breaking levels of lawlessness. Slowly,
we began to bring America back. The
effort has been long, slow, and difficult.
In spite of the difficulties, we have made
dramatic progress.
In the last four years the Department
of Justice has obtained convictions
against more than 2500 organized crime
figures, including a number of bosses and
under-bosses in major cities across the
country. The pressure on the underworld
is building constantly.
Today, the capital of the United States
no longer bears the stigma of also being
the Nation's crime capital. As a result of
decisive reforms in the criminal justice
192
