Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
discriminatory, reimbursable basis to for-
eign countries and international organiza-
tions for any space project undertaken for
peaceful purposes and consistent with
relevant international arrangements. This
policy extended to other nations the assur-
ances we had given earlier to member
states of the European Space Conference.
The Earth Resource Technology Satel-
lite (ERTS) program of the United States
is a particularly significant example of
international cooperation in space. The
program is designed to develop ways to
use satellites in geological, hydrological,
agricultural, and oceanographic surveys,
in pollution monitoring, and in other
types of resource utilization planning.
Ninety projects from 37 nations and two
international organizations are included
in the present research program. The first
ERTS satellite was launched in July 1972.
Several earth resource survey experiments,
including some proposed by other coun-
tries, will be conducted by the manned
Skylab spacecraft. An additional un-
manned experimental satellite is also
planned.
After years of intensive negotiations, an
international satellite telecommunications
consortium of 83 nations, known as In-
telsat, has come into existence. Intelsat
is a unique multinational venture re-
sponsible for a worldwide network of
satellite telecommunications.
The United States continues to play
an active role in United Nations space
affairs, particularly the Outer Space
Committee. International acceptance has
been secured for the 1968 Astronaut Res-
cue and Return Agreement and for the
1972 Space Liability Convention. Work
is also going forward on treaties covering
the moon and other celestial bodies and
on registration of space objects.
The past year also marked a significant
milestone in U.S.-Soviet space cooper-
ation. The Space Cooperation Agreement
which I signed in Moscow on May 24,
1972, provides for a variety of cooper-
ative activities, including a joint docking
mission of Soviet and American spacecraft
in 1975.
Further opportunities lie ahead, in-
cluding possible international cooperation
in the use of a space shuttle and the de-
velopment of basic international under-
standings regarding earth resource sur-
veys. We will shape our response to these
and other challenges in ways that enhance
the prospects for the peaceful use of outer
space in the interest of all mankind.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Political relations among nations are
increasingly influenced by the growing
range of unofficial contacts between in-
dividuals and groups in the modern world.
The increase in economic and scientific
interdependence, the growth of new trans-
national communities based on common
interests and concerns, the global reach
of communications, and the upsurge in
travel have all radically altered the en-
vironment in which national governments
develop and pursue their policies.
U.S. foreign policy has kept pace with
these changes. Our policies and programs
have been responsive to the opportunities.
For example, as a result of agreements
made last year in connection with my
visit to the Soviet Union, the American
and Soviet peoples are now working more
closely in a host of areas-exchanging re-
actor scientists, sharing research findings
in heart disease, cancer, and environ-
mental health, cooperating in nearly 30
environmental projects, collaborating in
509
