[39] Feb. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
He wants them solved, but he wants to
find the best ways to solve them.
I think the country is very fortunate to
have a man of his intellectual background
and his managerial capacity and his really
great heart in this position. And he has our
total confidence and, I think, will have the
confidence of the whole country as he car-
ries on this very important assignment.
Cap, you can have a word now.
MR. WEINBERGER. Thank you. I am
particularly glad you mentioned the point
about compassion. I made the point to the
Senate committee, or tried to, that no one
has a monopoly on warmth or compassion
or feeling or concern about the problems
the Department is concerned with, and
our whole hope here was that, as you have
said in your instructions to me, that the
whole point of the budgetcutting is not
just to get a better figure on the last line
but it is to eliminate the problems of in-
flation that come in most serious form to
the people who are the beneficiaries of this
Department, and also to free some dollars
so we can do something more effective
than has been done in the past.
So, it is from a warm and compassionate
point of view that we are starting this
position, and I really think that quite a lot
more can be done than has been accom-
plished in prior years by what we hope to
be a more effective use of available funds.
There are quite a lot of them, and we
want to use them in a way that will most
benefit the people who are most in need.
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Judge Caldecott who,
as you have heard, was a seatmate of the
new Secretary when they were young as-
semblymen in California and when I was
a young Vice President, will now adminis
ter the oath.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. at
the Western White House, San Clemente, Calif.
Associate Justice Thomas W. Caldecott of
the Court of Appeals of the State of California
administered the oath of office.
40 Statement About the Death of David Lawrence.
February 12, 1973
FOR MORE than half a century, David
Lawrence wrote with clarity and convic-
tion about the public issues of our times.
At his death he was not only a dean of
his profession but also one of our most
distinguished patriots.
Along with millions of other Ameri-
cans, I shall miss him deeply.
NOTE: Mr. Lawrence, 84, died in Sarasota,
Fla, on February 11, 1973 At the time of his
death, he was the writer of a syndicated column
and editor and chairman of the board of US
News and World Report.
On April 22, 1970, at a White House cere-
mony, Mr. Lawrence was awarded the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom for his contributions
to journalism. See 1970 volume, Item 131.
The statement was issued at San Clemente,
Calif.
88
