Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
safety will continue to be the manpower
and resources they are willing and able to
invest. And their peace will depend
heavily on their ability and readiness to
overcome historic rivalries, old territorial
disputes, and religious and political dif-
ferences with their neighbors.
A new spirit of cooperation has devel-
oped among many of the countries of Asia
in recent years. Thailand, Malaysia,
Singapore, Indonesia, and the Philip-
pines are joined in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to
grapple with common concerns of many
kinds. The Asian Development Bank and
the Economic Commission for Asia and
the Far East (ECAFE) have proved suc-
cessful instruments for promoting eco-
nomic progress, and have become out-
standing examples of what developed and
developing nations can accomplish by
working together.
Economic progress and heightened co-
operation among Asian nations cannot
obscure the many problems facing those
nations, or the several dangers shared by
them and their friends, including the
United States. We have noted many of the
promising developments in present day
Asia. But it is not foreordained that all or
any of them will finally succeed. There are
huge obstacles to be overcome-distrust,
deep differences of ideology and social
systems, political and economic rivalries.
Improvements in atmosphere could easily
prove ephemeral, especially if many out-
standing issues prove too difficult to settle
in a reasonable period of time.
Moreover, some long-standing rivalries
may prove intractable and dangers will
doubtless continue. North Vietnam's am-
bition to dominate all of Indochina has
not diminished, though it may resort to
different tactics or alter the time frame for
attaining that goal. There is continuing
fighting in South Vietnam and a residue
of hatred that will persist for a long time.
South and North Korea have been talking
to each other, but no one who knows the
recent history of that troubled peninsula
believes that reconciliation will be easy or
will come early. There are other disputes
and differences between other Asian na-
tions, and none of them will be resolved
quickly.
There is promise, however, in the evolv-
ing pattern of efforts by most of those con-
cerned with Asia to limit the dangers of
military conflicts flowing from political
differences. We can hope that all con-
cerned will come to recognize the high
stake they have in the process of nor-
malizing relations. Stable balances, local
and multilateral, may ultimately turn into
a stable system of peace.
The United States has a deep interest
in that outcome and responsibilities to
help achieve it. One of those responsi-
bilities is to make sure that our strength
and will are not undermined to the point
where our presence in Asia has lost most of
its relevance. For if our friends conclude
that they can no longer depend on the
United States for at least the critical mar-
gin of assistance in protecting themselves,
they may feel compelled to compromise
with those who threaten them, including
the forces of subversion and revolution in
their midst. Equally important, if adver-
saries conclude that we no longer intend
to maintain a significant presence, or that
our willingness to take stern measures
when pushed too far has disappeared,
then the importance of reaching balanced
agreements with us will have largely
evaporated.
31-870 - 75 - 31
431
