[176] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I see. Well, I will be
out in California at that time, and after
you have splashed down, I hope to wel-
come the three of you, perhaps. Maybe
you can come up to San Clemente and we
will say hello.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Wonderful. I am
sitting here talking to you right now, com-
ing up on the coast of California, looking
out the window at the full Moon.
THE PRESIDENT. Is that right?
Let me also say that this is Father's Day.
I understand each of you is a father, so
congratulations.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. We will look forward
to seeing you after you get back.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Yes, sir. And thank
you very much for the call.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you,
Pete.
NOTE: The telephone conversation began at
10:09 a.m. The President spoke from the study
in his residence at Key Biscayne, Fla. The crew
was aboard the Skylab space station, which was
in orbit 275 miles above the Earth.
177 Remarks of Welcome to Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev,
General Secretary of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of the U.S.S.R. June 18, 1973
Mr. General Secretary and all of our dis-
tinguished guests:
Mr. Brezhnev, it is a very great honor
for me to welcome you on your first visit
to the United States. It was just a year ago
that we met in Moscow, and on that oc-
casion we entered into a number of agree-
ments that changed the relationship be-
tween our two great countries in a very
profound way.
What has happened since those agree-
ments have been entered into, and the
preparations that have been made over
many, many months, the correspondence
that we have had, and other meetings,
lead me to conclude that this year at the
summit in Washington, we will not only
build on the foundation that we laid last
year but that we have the opportunity to
make even greater progress than we made
last year toward the goals that we share
in common-the goals of better relations
between our two governments, a better
life for our people, the Russian people,
the American people, and above all, the
goal that goes beyond our two countries,
but to the whole world, the goal of lifting
the burden of armaments from the world
and building a structure of peace.
As you know, Mr. General Secretary,
these television cameras mean that right
now millions in America and millions in
the Soviet Union are seeing us as we ap-
pear together and as we speak.
I could also add that not only are the
Russian people, the Soviet people, and
the American people watching but all the
world is watching as we meet on this
occasion, because the people of the world
know that if the leaders of the two most
powerful nations of the world can work
together and their governments can work
together, the chance for a world of peace
is infinitely increased.
The hopes of the world rest with us at
this time in the meetings that we will have.
I am confident, Mr. General Secretary,
that in our meetings this week we shall
not disappoint those hopes.
We wish you a good stay in our country,
594
