Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 5 [350]
members of our Cabinet and the members
of the President's official party here was
particularly appropriate.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:19 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
President Ceauşescu spoke in Romanian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
The signing of the joint declaration between
the United States and Romania marks a new
stage in the relations between our two
countries.
It is true that in the last few years, and in
particular after the visit paid by President
Nixon to Romania, the relations between Ro-
mania and the United States have seen a strong
development in all fields of activity. These
very days we have signed several documents
and agreements on our economic cooperation
and we adopted a statement on the principles
of our economic cooperation. Today we sign
this declaration which places at the basis of
the cooperation between Romania and the
United States the principles which are assert-
ing themselves ever more strongly in interna-
tional affairs. As such, they are the only
principles apt to insure a lasting and just peace
in the world, such as equal rights, respect for
the sovereignty and independence of each na-
tion, noninterference in the internal affairs,
mutual advantage and renunciation of force
and of any threat with force in the settlement
of international issues.
The signing of this declaration between our
two countries-countries having different so-
cial systems, and which are different in size-
is an important event which at the same time
confirms the deep, growing changes which
now occur in the world and which are acceler-
ated today.
We should like to see the significance of this
document expand in the world and demon-
strate that in the world today, it is indeed pos-
sible for all countries, big, medium size, or
small, to work together in full equality and to
have the right of each nation asserted for its
development according to its own wishes so that
a better world, a world with more justice, will
be built for all.
There is no doubt that the happily existing
relations between the United States and Ro-
mania have reached the present stage also
due to the fact that President Nixon and my-
self have established good relations of coopera-
tion and friendship, and that the President
of the United States, himself, has taken action
in trying to apply these principles in the mutual
relations with Romania.
We dearly wish that the declaration we have
signed today should form the lasting basis for
the friendship between our two nations and
should contribute at the same time to inter-
national peace and cooperation.
350 Joint Statement of Principles Following Discussions
With President Ceausescu of Romania.
December 5, 1973
THE President of the United States of
America, Richard Nixon, and the Presi-
dent of the Council of State of the Social-
ist Republic of Romania, Nicolae Ceau-
şescu.
-having met in a cordial, construc-
tive and friendly atmosphere, which
provided the opportunity for a useful
and comprehensive exchange of views,
-having discussed United States-
Romanian relations, the principles un-
derlying those relations, and the prin-
cipal international problems of current
concern in a spirit of full and mutual
respect reflecting the interests of the
American and Romanian peoples in
closer contacts,
agreed on the following statement.
They expressed the conviction that all
nations, whatever their size, political,
997
