[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank, the Asian Development Bank,
and the United Nations Development
Program. Because of their multilateral
and non-political character, these in-
stitutions frequently can be more rigor-
ous and frank on issues of development
policy with recipient states. They have
done an outstanding job in providing the
framework for coordinating donor con-
tributions and in assuming their appro-
priate role of leadership in the develop-
ment assistance effort. The funds I have
requested for these institutions and for
our bilateral programs are essential to the
peoples of the developing countries and to
the structure of our relationship with the
developing world.
Development Through Trade. While
foreign assistance is important, developing
nations have to earn by far the largest
part of their foreign exchange through
trade. Traditionally, they have exported
mainly raw materials, though manufac-
tured goods have increasing potential for
expansion. They must export these goods
in increasing amounts in order to buy the
machinery and other products necessary
for their future development. Recognizing
this fact, we have included in our pro-
posed trade legislation a provision for
generalized tariff preferences which would
allow many products of the developing
countries to enter the U.S., as they already
enter Europe and Japan, without duty.
In the 19th and early 20th Centuries
there was considerable friction among
developed nations as a result of their dis-
criminatory commercial arrangements
with the poorer areas of the world. To-
day's special preferential arrangements
are also a source of such friction. And
they run counter to the interests of many
developing countries. We seek a system
that improves developing country access
to the markets of the developed countries
without discrimination and without re-
stricted preferential arrangements. Our
legislation reflects this approach.
In the forthcoming trade negotiations,
developing countries have an opportunity
to help create a general improvement of
trade conditions. Most of them want
greater freedom in agricultural trade and
increased exports to developed countries
of their manufactured and semi-manufac-
tured goods. We and the developing coun-
tries which share these objectives have
an interest in working together to achieve
them. And, reductions in the import bar-
riers of developing countries could benefit
their economies and help make the system
work more effectively.
Monetary Policy and the Developing
Nations. The developing countries have a
major interest in the reform of the world's
monetary system. Their trade, exchange
reserves, and debt positions are directly
affected by monetary events. Yet in the
past they have had little voice in mone-
tary negotiations. The inclusion of nine
representatives of the developing nations
on the Committee of Twenty on inter-
national monetary reform is a significant
and positive step. We are working closely
with these nations to achieve reforms that
serve our mutual interests.
FUTURE ISSUES
1972 began an era of negotiation and
reform in international economic policy.
We laid the groundwork for a thorough
restructuring of the international economy
and opened doors to new commercial
relations with the Communist world. The
476
