[276] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
terms of his love of his country, his pride in
his background in that country and also
in the idealism with which he approaches
the problems of building a structure of
peace in the Pacific, in Asia, and in the
world. And the world is fortunate that a
man with his background, with his
idealism, with his strength, with his con-
cern for little countries as well as little
people, is leading this nation, which is in
a way, we think, so far away from us.
And I would simply say, Mr. Prime
Minister, that perhaps it would be hard
to find any two countries in the world that
are further apart geographically than New
Zealand and the United States. But it
would be hard to find, also, any two coun-
tries in the world that in terms of what we
seek in the world, in terms of our common
ideals, in terms of what we believe, are
closer together, because we both seek a
world of peace, we both seek a world in
which not only great powers but small
powers and small nations are safe, inde-
pendent, and respected.
And we both seek a world in which all
people in the world-all people in the
world-wherever they may be, not only
in our countries, which are fortunate to be
far above the average in terms of our in-
come, shall have the opportunity to move
forward toward a better life.
In this room in which, for over 150
years, leaders from other governments
have spoken, these words I know may
sound now almost trite, but I would say
that we are entering an era when the op-
portunity not only to build a structure of
peace which will last for perhaps the bal-
ance of the century and beyond, but also
to build a new world in which all nations
and all people go forward together to a
better life, where that opportunity is bet-
ter than it has ever been. And we are very
proud that we have the opportunity, Mr.
Prime Minister, to work with you, your
people, your government toward that
great end.
Ladies and gentlemen. I know you will
want to rise and drink to the health of the
Prime Minister.
To the Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:57 pm in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Kirk met
with the President at the White House
Prime Minister Kirk responded to the Presi-
dent's toast as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, Mr. Vice Press-
dent, Mrs. Agnew, ladies and gentlemen:
I feel a little out of place. Though I come
from a small country, I have to confess that
we produce the most excellent food anywhere
in the world, and that is what I am advertis-
ing by my presence. If you want to live in a
small country but be big, there is a very simple
trade solution to it.
But, Mr. President, I want first to thank you
for the consideration and for the kindness and
cordiality that you have shown to me during
this visit to Washington, and I want to as-
sure you that that is greatly appreciated.
And I want to say that it has been a very
fine tribute and one that I appreciate very
much, that among those who were invited here
tonight are special personal friends in the
United States of America, and I want to thank
you very much for that consideration.
And I want to say how moved I was, know-
ing how difficult it is for a European to speak
good Maori, to hear someone singing flawless
Maori and without an accent of any sort.
That really was a very nice touch.'
Our country, of course, is called New Zea
land-it is also called "Aotearoa," the Maori
name for the country, "The Land of the Long
White Cloud," and it conjures up a vision of
peace, blue skies, pleasant living, and indeed
that is true of the country.
'The U.S. Army Chorus performed at the
dinner, including in its program one song, as
was customary, native to the guest of honor's
country.
830
