[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Federal Republic of Germany had
embarked on an Eastern policy to nor-
malize its relations with the Soviet Union.
Ultimately, the Federal Republic's rati-
fication of its August 1970 treaty with
the Soviet Union became dependent on
the success of the Berlin negotiations be-
ing conducted by the United States, the
United Kingdom, France, and the Soviet
Union.
In September 1971, the first part of a
Berlin agreement was reached. Unim-
peded access between West Germany and
West Berlin was guaranteed by the Soviet
Union, without affecting the rights and
responsibilities of the three Western
powers in Berlin. The agreement provided
for subsequent negotiations between the
Federal Republic, the West Berlin govern-
ment, and East Germany over the modali-
ties of access to Berlin and travel from
West Berlin to East Berlin and East Ger-
many. During my meeting with the Soviet
leaders in May 1972, it was agreed that
the final Protocol, bringing all parts of
the Berlin agreements into effect, would
be signed on June 3, 1972. The West
German government, following parlia-
mentary approval of the treaties with the
Soviet Union and Poland, proceeded to
bring them into force, opening the way
for it to negotiate a general treaty reg-
ulating relations with East Germany.
These past four years have been a
period of active European and interna-
tional diplomacy. In addition to the Ber-
lin agreement and the German treaties.
France agreed on a set of principles for
political consultations with the Soviet
Union. Canada agreed on a somewhat
similar arrangement during Premier Ko-
sygin's visit. West Germany and Italy
negotiated long-term economic agree-
ments with the Soviet Union. There have
been several summit meetings between
Soviet and West European leaders. And
the United States agreed with the Soviet
Union on strategic arms limitations, meas-
ures of bilateral cooperation, and some
basic principles governing our relations.
In sum, the allies have intensified their
national diplomacy within a framework of
unity. But the very success of the past four
years has created some new problems.
Each of the European countries will want
to continue the development of its own
bilateral economic and political relations
with the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe. The United States also wishes to
pursue the favorable trends that have de-
veloped in our relations with the Soviet
Union. Each of our allies naturally wants
a major voice in negotiations affecting
Europe as a whole, and in those aspects
of Soviet-American relations that affect
international stability.
Two specific issues will test the ability
of the Western coalition to reconcile its
unity with its diversity: the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe
and the negotiations on mutual and bal-
anced force reductions.
The Conference on Security and Coop-
eration in Europe. In March 1969, the
Warsaw Pact revived its proposal to con-
vene a European Security Conference.
Such a conference would be largely sym-
bolic; its purpose would be to confirm
the territorial and political status quo in
Europe. There was some feeling in the
West that this proposal should be ac-
cepted: it was thought that it might be
a way to dissipate the tensions over the
invasion of Czechoslovakia in August
1968 and to test Soviet policy. Some
viewed it as a way of creating a better
412
