Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
imbalance of such a scale could not
fail to have implications for the
stability and equity of the interna-
tional economic system.
-In her foreign economic policy, while
not in her diplomacy and security
policy, Japan began as early as the
mid-1950's to move out independ-
ently. Her economic assistance to the
developing world is second only to
that of the United States, and more
than a third of it is in the form of
credits tied to Japanese exports.
Japan has long had trade relations
with the major Communist powers.
Unofficial Japanese trading relation-
ships existed with the People's Re-
public of China as early as 1952, and
Japan had an unofficial trade office
in Peking by 1964; by 1971, when
American trade with the People's Re-
public was still negligible, Sino-Japa-
nese trade was $900 million. Japan
signed a Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation with the Soviet Union in
1957, which has been the basis for a
series of subsequent trade agree-
ments; in recent years they have be-
gun cooperation in the development
of Siberian resources-an economic
relationship of great potential. While
the United States held back from
East-West trade, Japan staked out for
herself a role in bridging the gap be-
tween East and West with her eco-
nomic ties.
-It was inevitable that these economic
relations would develop into political
ties, particularly in the new atmos-
phere of détente. Japan has moved
actively in this direction in the past
two years. Prime Minister Tanaka's
historic visit to Peking in September
1972 led to the establishment of full
diplomatic relations, again putting
formal Sino-Japanese ties at a more
advanced stage than Sino-American
relations, while she still maintains her
extensive economic ties with Taiwan.
Japan and the Soviet Union re-
opened discussions in 1972 of a pos-
sible final peace treaty and territorial
settlement, in the interest of normali-
zation of their political relations.
Prime Minister Tanaka will shortly
match his visit to Peking with a visit
to Moscow. Japan has now moved
out in many directions into the arena
of complex geopolitical relationships
among the major powers.
-Japan has accelerated and broadened
her political involvement in Asia in
particular. She extended recognition
to Mongolia and Bangladesh in ad-
vance of the United States, as did a
number of other nations. She has
taken a special interest in the se-
curity and diplomacy of the Korean
peninsula, and in postwar reconstruc-
tion in Indochina, opening in the
process a dialogue with North Viet-
nam. She takes a greater part today
in regional institutions. Asia is the
focus of her economic assistance to
the developing world. It is an active
diplomacy of Asian involvement,
after a generation.
-Japan has now come into increasing
interchange with the world beyond
Asia and the Pacific, both as a par-
ticipant and as a competitor. The
communiques of my summit meet-
ings with Prime Ministers Sato and
Tanaka reflected our review of global
problems, including arms control and
East-West diplomacy. Japan's eco-
nomic expansion has brought her in-
creasingly into the markets of Europe
417
