Richard Nixon, 1973
May 1 [135]
portant to us both economically and polit-
ically. Economically, many of the develop-
ing countries have energy resources and
raw materials which the world will need
to share in coming years. They also could
represent larger markets for our exports.
Politically, we cannot achieve some of
our goals without their support. More-
over, if essential needs of any people go
entirely unsatisfied, their frustrations only
breed violence and international instabil-
ity. Thus we should recognize that we as-
sist them out of self-interest as well as
humanitarian motives.
While development progress as a result
of our aid has been less visible than some
would like, I believe it is essential for us
to persevere in this effort. I am therefore
asking the Congress to authorize some $1
billion for development assistance pro-
grams during fiscal year 1974 and approxi-
mately the same amount for fiscal year
1975.
EMERGENCY AID
America's fund of goodwill in the world
is substantial, precisely because we have
traditionally given substance to our con-
cern and compassion for others. In times
of major disaster, American assistance has
frequently provided the margin of differ-
ence between life and death for thousands.
Our aid to victims of disasters-such as
the earthquake in Peru and floods in the
Philippines has earned us a reputation
for caring about our fellowman.
No nation is more generous in such cir-
cumstances. And the American people
respond with open hearts to those who
suffer such hardship. I am therefore ask-
ing the Congress to authorize such
amounts as may be needed to meet emer-
gency requirements for relief assistance
in the case of major disasters.
SECURITY ASSISTANCE
Security assistance has been a corner-
stone of U.S. foreign policy throughout
the last quarter century. Countries whose
security we consider important to our own
national interest frequently face military
challenges, often prompted by third
countries. In order to maintain a stable
international order, it is important that
these threatened countries not only be
economically developed but also be able to
defend themselves, primarily through
their own resources.
The United States can rightly claim
a number of successes in this regard dur-
ing recent years. Our programs to help
South Vietnam and South Korea build
capable forces of their own, for instance,
have permitted us to withdraw all of our
forces over 500,000 men-from South
Vietnam and 20,000 men from South
Korea.
It is unrealistic to think we can pro-
vide all of the money or manpower that
might be needed for the security of
friendly nations. Nor do our allies want
such aid; they prefer to rely on their own
resources.
We can and should, however, share our
experience, counsel and technical re-
sources to help them develop adequate
strength of their own. It is for this reason
that I ask the Congress to authorize $652
million in grant military assistance, $525
million in foreign military sales credits,
and $100 million in supporting assistance
funds for fiscal year 1974.
This year's foreign aid bill includes
for the first time separate authority for a
foreign military education and training
program. We want to strengthen this pro-
gram so that we can help friendly govern-
ments better understand our policies,
31-870 O
-
75-25
335
