[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
and South Vietnam through peaceful
means, step by step, through direct
negotiations.
-Respect for the independence, sover-
eignty, unity, territorial integrity,
and neutrality of Laos and Cam-
bodia.
-In accordance with traditional
United States policy, U.S. participa-
tion in postwar reconstruction efforts
throughout Indochina.
-An International Commission of
Control and Supervision (ICCS)
composed of Canada, Hungary,
Indonesia, and Poland to control and
supervise the elections and various
military provisions of the Agreement.
-Joint Military Commissions of the
parties to implement appropriate
provisions of the Agreement.
-An International Conference within
thirty days to guarantee the Agree-
ment and the ending of the war.
There were also four protocols which
spelled out the implementation of the
Agreement in the following areas: the
ceasefire and the Joint Military Commis-
sion; the ICCS; the release of prisoners;
and mine clearance in North Vietnam.
These then are the principal provisions
of the Agreement and the negotiating his-
tory that produced it. The following
points emerge.
The Agreement corresponded to our
overall approach. We consistently held the
view that a settlement should involve
specific resolution of military questions
alone. This was, we believed, the most
feasible and rapid route to peace. The
final settlement embodied this principle.
The military issues-such as the ceasefire,
prisoner release, withdrawals, and super-
vision-were spelled out in detail in the
Agreement and accompanying protocols.
On the political side, the provisions were
general, leaving those matters to be nego-
tiated between the two South Vietnamese
parties.
The Agreement included the basic fea-
tures of our earlier peace plans. An inter-
nationally supervised ceasefire, return of
all prisoners, the withdrawal of Ameri-
cans and allied forces, and an interna-
tional conference were basic provisions of
all our plans since October 1970. Inter-
nationally supervised elections were al-
ways the centerpiece of the U.S.-GVN
political approach. And the National
Council corresponded in many respects to
the mixed electoral commission of our
January 1972 plan.
The settlement represents a compromise
by both sides. While our essential prin-
ciples were met, we and the Communists
had to make compromises. Many of these
were more significant for our ally than for
us. For example, we did not insist on the
withdrawal of North Vietnamese forces
from South Vietnam. On the other hand,
this had not been part of our negotiating
position since our October 7, 1970, plan.
There were other mutual compromises.
But the fact these were made reflected the
de facto situation and represented an out-
come fair to all parties. Neither side could
expect to impose at the conference table
what it had not gained on the battlefield.
The military outcome was not clear-cut
and therefore the political future was yet
to be determined. For us the important
principle is that the Agreement does not
hand over this political future to the Com-
munists. Our friends have every oppor-
tunity to demonstrate their inherent
strength.
It was not possible to reach this Agree-
390
