Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
III. ADDITIONAL ACTIONS TO MEET OUR
HOUSING NEEDS
NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
Simply providing Federal housing as-
sistance to families without proper
regard for the condition of the neighbor-
hood as a whole too often results in unmet
expectations for the families, added bur-
dens for the municipality and a waste
of the taxpayers' dollars. It is important,
therefore, that all of our efforts in the
housing and community development field
be carried out as a partnership venture
of the Federal Government, the local gov-
ernment, local financial institutions and
the citizens of the neighborhoods involved.
Added resources such as those which
would be available under my proposed
$2.3 billion Better Communities Act can
provide important support for these ef-
forts. To smooth the transition to the
Better Communities Act, I am directing
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development to make available up to $60
million in Section 312 rehabilitation loans
in the current fiscal year. Priority will be
given to those communities which need
these loans to complete present projects
or where complementary local rehabilita-
tion efforts have already been launched.
In addition, I have directed the Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development,
using his research and demonstration
funds, to pursue promising approaches
to neighborhood preservation which
might be adopted by communities on a
broader basis.
lenging, not only because the proportion
of substandard housing is greater in rural
areas but also because these areas often
lack the resources to foster greater eco-
nomic development-and better housing.
Of course, many of our housing programs
and proposals are designed to assist all
families, urban and rural alike. But there
is also a special need to address in a spe-
cial way the rural housing challenge.
Our recent housing study concludes
that the basic housing problem in many
rural areas is that our major financial in-
stitutions are not represented in these
areas and that credit is therefore inade-
quate. The Farmers Home Administra-
tion has done a great deal to help change
this picture but further efforts
needed. At my direction, the Department
of Agriculture and the Department of
Housing and Urban Development will
seek additional ways of correcting this
situation and increasing credit avail-
ability in rural areas.
In my Community Development Mes-
sage last March 8th, I emphasized that
"in pursuing a policy of balanced devel-
opment for our community life, we must
always keep the needs of rural America
clearly in sight." I mentioned then my
continuing support for a revenue sharing
approach for rural development, acknowl-
edging that the Rural Development Act
fell short of what I preferred in this re-
gard. I went on to indicate my intention,
after fully evaluating the effectiveness of
this act, to seek whatever additional legis-
lation may be needed. I repeat that pledge
today.
IMPROVING RURAL HOUSING
The problems of providing good hous-
ing in our rural areas are especially chal-
A SUITABLE LIVING ENVIRONMENT
The housing we live in and the envi-
ronment surrounding that housing are in-
811
