Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 29 [239]
important to all mankind and which will con-
tinue to command great public support during
the remainder of your term.
Please accept my thanks and deep apprecia-
tion for giving me the opportunity to serve the
country during these critical and important
years in our nation's history. Adele joins me
in sending you and Pat our warmest personal
regards.
Respectfully,
WILLIAM P. ROGERS
[The President, The White House]
238 White House Statement About a Reported
Indian-Pakistani Agreement on the Return of Prisoners
of War. August 28, 1973
WE HAVE NOT yet seen the text of the
reported agreement, so we cannot com-
ment in detail. However, the United
States welcomes this most recent and
heartening forward step which strength-
ens the prospects for a new era of peace,
stability, and cooperation in the Subcon-
tinent. India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh
239 Statement About United
Assistance for Pakistan.
THE American people have the deepest
concern and sympathy for the people of
Pakistan as they battle terrible floods, the
most serious of this century, under the
leadership of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali
Bhutto. Whole areas of Pakistan are being
ravaged. Initial reports indicate that the
number of people dead or missing is
tragically large, that millions of people
are homeless, and that the extent of prop-
erty damage is mounting into hundreds
of millions of dollars. The previously
bright prospects for Pakistan's develop-
ment have been temporarily dimmed.
In an immediate response to this situa-
tion, U.S. helicopters and boats with their
crews are already engaged in helping with
immediate rescue work and with the
movement of vital relief supplies. Medical
and other urgent needs are being met.
have demonstrated both their willingness
and their ability to work out problems on
their own. The agreement is a tribute to
the steadfastness and farsightedness of
the leaders of each of these nations.
NOTE: The statement was issued at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
States Flood Relief
August 29, 1973
Pakistan needs help, and I know its
friends in the international community
will respond generously.
In response to longer-term needs, I
have directed that 100,000 metric tons
of U.S. wheat be made available to the
people of Pakistan to provide some im-
mediate relief before their next harvest.
Further, I am directing that the United
States begin now in helping with the reha-
bilitation and recovery of Pakistan to as-
sure prompt and effective action for im-
mediate relief and for our contribution to
an early recovery. I have asked AID Dep-
uty Administrator Maurice J. Williams,
my special relief coordinator for major
disasters abroad, to go to Pakistan to re-
view with the Pakistan Government im-
mediate relief and longer-range recon-
struction needs. He will report to me,
and
727
