Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
issues were interrelated; we could not
effectively reduce tensions through
marginal agreements or even an
isolated agreement of importance.
Experience had shown that isolated
accomplishments were likely to fall
victim to tensions and crises in other
aspects of the relationship. Thus, if
we were to achieve more than a
superficial change, we had to ad-
dress a broad range of issues.
-Finally, we would judge Soviet ac-
tions rather than words. The basic
criterion would be a willingness to
act with restraint. We would respond
constructively to Soviet initiatives;
progress in one area would help
maintain momentum in other negoti-
ations. We would also make it clear
that aggressive behavior could im-
peril our entire relationship. By link-
ing all aspects of Soviet-American
relations, we could hope that prog-
ress, if it came, could lead to a
broadly based understanding about
international conduct.
These general principles were trans-
lated into specific proposals during 1969
and 1970.
After a painstaking evaluation of all
aspects of limiting strategic arms, we
agreed to begin negotiations in November
1969. On other disarmament matters, we
revived negotiations on prohibiting nu-
clear arms from the seabeds and took up
the new challenge of limiting biological
warfare.
In Europe, we reconfirmed NATO pro-
posals to begin discussing mutual and bal-
anced force reductions in Central Europe
where the concentrations of opposing
forces were heaviest. We proposed to ap-
proach the issue of European security by
negotiating, first of all, improvements in
the situation in Berlin. The Berlin nego-
tiations would be critical, not only because
that divided city had been the scene of
tense confrontations in the past, but be-
cause it was also the keystone in West Ger-
many's effort to create a more normal
relationship with its Eastern neighbors.
That normalization would, in turn, influ-
ence the new prospects for a wider dis-
cussion of European security and coopera-
tion, including a possible conference of
European governments, Canada, and the
United States.
As for economic relations, I indicated
that the United States was prepared to
have normal economic exchanges with
any country that was equally willing to
move toward normal relations in both
political and economic fields.
On the Middle East, we agreed to dis-
cussions with the United Kingdom,
France, and the Soviet Union, and we
encouraged the Arab governments and
Israel to undertake direct negotiations.
In this initial period, we tried to create
circumstances that would offer the Soviet
leaders an opportunity to move away from
confrontation through carefully prepared
negotiations. We hoped that the Soviet
Union would acquire a stake in a wide
spectrum of negotiations and would be-
come convinced that its interests, like
would be best served if this process in-
volved most of our relations. We sought,
above all, to create a vested interest in
mutual restraint.
ours,
Our relations with the Soviet Union
passed through several tactical phases. It
was apparent that Soviet policy had con-
tradictory tendencies. Some factors
pointed toward a more stable relationship
with the United States; others suggested
a continued probing for tactical gains. In
this period, we dealt with these contradic-
31-870 - 75 - 27
367
