Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
resources for Hemispheric develop-
ment. A healthy process of regional
initiatives and self-definition is now
underway, and the foundations have
been established for a more mature
partnership with our Latin Ameri-
can friends. The common task of
redefining and imparting fresh pur-
pose to our community, however, is
far from completed.
-Asia has witnessed a settlement of the
Vietnam war and major develop-
ments in relations among the prin-
cipal powers. It is there that the
Nixon Doctrine has been most ex-
tensively applied. There has been
positive growth in self-help and re-
gional cooperation. But these nations
are entering a period of delicate re-
adjustment and American steadiness
will be crucial.
-In Africa our goals remained eco-
nomic development, racial justice,
and a stable peace resting on inde-
pendent states. We continue to rec-
ognize, however, that these
largely the tasks of the African na-
tions themselves-and there were
both hopeful and discouraging
events this past year. Our policies of
political restraint and economic sup-
port are designed to help Africa
realize its rich potential.
-We moved down the interrelated
paths of national security, arms con-
trol, and a strong defense. The stra-
tegic arms limitation pacts with the
Soviet Union were a milestone, but
major tasks remain-the extension
of limitations on strategic arms and
then their reduction; the mutual and
balanced reduction of conventional
forces in Central Europe. In our de-
fense posture we have maintained a
clearly sufficient power, and we
reached an all-volunteer army. But
we are still searching for doctrines
and deployments fully adequate to
changing times and surging costs.
Our fundamental principle remains
keeping America strong enough to
preserve our vital interests and pro-
mote the prospects of peace.
-We paid increasing attention to
global issues that more and more de-
mand international solutions. Prog-
ress was encouraging in some areas,
such as reducing the flow of drugs.
The world community still refused
to grapple effectively, however, with
other issues such as terrorism. The
global dimension of diplomacy has
been developing unevenly.
Since last year's Report, there has been
historic progress. A changed world has
moved closer to a lasting peace. Many
events were colorful, but their true drama
is that they can herald a new epoch, not
fade as fleeting episodes.
As in any year, however, there were
disappointments as well as successes. And
wherever there is progress, new challenges
are added to an always unfinished agenda.
Shaping a peaceful world requires, first
of all, an America that stays strong, an
America that stays involved.
But the United States alone cannot
realize this goal. Our friends and adver-
saries alike must share in the enterprise
of peace.
The President and the Administration
alone cannot pursue this goal. We need
the cooperation of the Congress and the
support of the American people.
It is to these audiences at home and
abroad that this Report is addressed.
357
