Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 16 [122]
ture had some different views. Pete Bren-
nan fought, and he won.
Now, a third area: We had the problem
of putting a price ceiling on beef, lamb,
and pork. The Secretary of Agriculture,
representing, as he has to and as I tell him
to, the views of farmers, vigorously op-
posed it in the Cabinet. Pete Brennan
vigorously supported it, and in this in-
stance, the Secretary of Agriculture lost.
Now, what I am trying to say to you
here, I am trying to say you gentlemen
that in a Cabinet, in a labor union, in any
kind of a system, you win some, and you
lose some. But the important thing is to
fight it out and have an articulate, effec-
tive spokesman for your point of view, and
also, the important thing is, where the
Presidency is concerned, that the door of
the Oval Office is always open to that
point of view. And I think every man here
at this head table will say, and I am proud
of this over the past 4 years, that the views
of organized labor have always been heard
in that Oval Office and they will continue
to be heard.
Because the genius of our system, as we
all must understand, is that we can have
labor and management fighting their bat-
tles, but in the end, working together to
build a greater America. I am talking here
to the group who are the builders of Amer-
ica. I am not just saying that to butter you
up, because it happens to be true.
The American construction industry is
the best in the world. I have been all over
the world. I have seen the great cities of
the world. I have seen construction in
other countries, and in some areas they
claim to be better than we are. We have
got the best. You keep it the best, because
we always want America to be number
one in building.
Now, let me give you a little history that
you may have forgotten. All these inter-
national presidents remember the meet-
ing, however. This is when George Shultz
was Secretary of Labor. It was in 1969,
and he came into my office with a number
of the international presidents to talk
about the sick industry. You know what it
was. It was the construction industry, they
said.
You may remember what the problem
was. In late 1969 and 1970 in this indus-
try, it was plagued in many instances by
strikes and labor stoppages. It was
plagued also in many instances at local
levels by exorbitant settlements exorbi-
tant settlements which had two effects:
One, they were inflationary, but also, inso-
far as the industry was concerned, it had
the effect of driving the jobs away from
organized labor into nonunion labor, and
that is why your top international presi-
dents, who are always in there fighting for
that last buck right down the line, said,
we have got to do a better job.
this
Now what did we do about that? We
set up a commission,ยน but not just to study
it, a commission to do something. It was
made up of the leaders of the construction
industry and the leaders of labor. It met
over a period of time. When we set up
committee, I remember there were some
of the wise boys in the economic field that
said it was never going to work. They said
the construction industry is just out of
hand, and there is no way you are going
to get it in shape and reduce the work
stoppages, and also get some kind of
amelioration insofar as wage settlements
which were out of line, which most of the
international presidents, all of them as a
ยน On March 29, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11588, establishing the Con-
struction Industry Stabilization Committee.
291
