[23] Jan. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
had a higher morality, we should now
give them amnesty.
Now, amnesty means forgiveness. We
cannot provide forgiveness for them.
Those who served paid their price. Those
who deserted must pay their price, and
the price is not a junket in the Peace
Corps, or something like that, as some
have suggested. The price is a criminal
penalty for disobeying the laws of the
United States. If they want to return to
the United States they must pay the
penalty. If they don't want to return, they
are certainly welcome to stay in any coun-
try that welcomes them.
POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION IN
INDOCHINA
[4] Mr. Theis [J. William Theis,
Hearst Newspapers and Hearst Headline
Service].
Q. Do you have any floor or ceiling
dollar figure in mind for the rehabilitation
of North Vietnam or the rest of Indo-
china?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Theis, that is a
matter that the Members of the Congress
raised with me, as you might imagine, and
they raised it not only with regard to
North Vietnam but with regard to South
Vietnam and Cambodia and Laos in this
period as we move into the cease-fire and,
we hope, peacetime reconstruction.
I cannot give you that figure now, be-
cause it is a matter that has to be nego-
tiated, and it must be all part of one pat-
tern. The figure, of course, will come out.
The figures will come out, but they must
first be discussed with the bipartisan lead-
ership because, with all of this talk about
the powers of the Presidency, let me say
I am keenly aware of the fact that even
though I might believe that a program of
reconstruction for North Vietnam, as well
as South Vietnam, is an investment in
peace, the Congress has to believe it. The
Congress has to support it. And this is
going to be one of the more difficult as-
signments I have had as President, but I
think we can make it if the Congress sees
what the stakes are.
INTEREST RATES ON AGRICULTURAL
LOANS
[5] Q. Mr. President, sir. Senator
Hollings says on a recent trip to Southeast
Asia, he discovered that we are letting
some countries, including Japan, have 2
percent money, yet we have denied our
own farmers in rural cooperatives 2 per-
cent money. We are telling them they
have to have their loans at 5 percent.
Would you comment on this and how this
might relate to your upcoming program of
aid to Southeast Asia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as the
program of aid is concerned and the per-
centage of interest that is paid, we will,
of course, have in mind the interest of
the American people. We want to be fair,
of course, to those who have been our
allies and in the great tradition of Amer-
ica when it fights wars, to those who have
been our enemies, like Germany and
Japan who, with America's help, now
have become our two greatest competitors
in the free world.
Now, when you get down to whether
the percentage will be 2 percent or 5
percent or 3 percent, that is a matter to be
negotiated, but we will be fair and we
will see that our farmers also are treated
fairly.
Let me say, if I could, with regard to
56
