[95] Mar. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
This Convention creates international
machinery for the identification and pro-
tection of natural and cultural areas of
outstanding universal value which con-
stitute the common heritage of mankind.
For this purpose, the Convention estab-
lishes a World Heritage Committee to
develop and maintain lists of areas of out-
standing importance and a World Heri-
tage Fund to provide international assist-
ance for the protection and conservation
of these areas.
While the Convention places basic re-
liance on the resources and efforts of the
States within whose territory these natural
and cultural sites are located, it would also
provide a means of assisting States which
have insufficient resources or expertise
in the protection of areas for the benefit
of all mankind.
I therefore recommend that the Sen-
ate give early and favorable consideration
to the Convention submitted herewith
and give its advice and consent subject
to a declaration for which provision is
made under Article 16(2), as explained
in the report from the Department of
State.
The White House,
March 28, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the convention and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
ecutive F (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
96 Message to the Congress Transmitting Reorganization
Plan 2 of 1973 Establishing the Drug Enforcement
Administration. March 28, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
Drug abuse is one of the most vicious
and corrosive forces attacking the founda-
tions of American society today. It is a
major cause of crime and a merciless de-
stroyer of human lives. We must fight it
with all of the resources at our command.
This Administration has declared all-
out, global war on the drug menace. As I
reported to the Congress earlier this
month in my State of the Union message,
there is evidence of significant progress on
a number of fronts in that war.
Both the rate of new addiction to
heroin and the number of narcotic-re-
lated deaths showed an encouraging
downturn last year. More drug addicts
and abusers are in treatment and reha-
bilitation programs than ever before.
Progress in pinching off the supply of
illicit drugs was evident in last year's
stepped-up volume of drug seizures
worldwide-which more than doubled in
1972 over the 1971 level.
Arrests of traffickers have risen by more
than one-third since 1971. Prompt Con-
gressional action on my proposal for man-
datory minimum sentences for pushers of
hard drugs will help ensure that convic-
tions stemming from such arrests lead to
actual imprisonment of the guilty.
Notwithstanding these gains, much
more must be done. The resilience of the
international drug trade remains grimly
impressive-current estimates suggest
that we still intercept only a small frac-
tion of all the heroin and cocaine enter-
ing this country. Local police still find
that more than one of every three suspects
arrested for street crimes is a narcotic
abuser or addict. And the total number of
Americans addicted to narcotics, suffer-
228
