Richard Nixon, 1973
May 24 [163]
But second, we must also look at this
situation: When they say, "Now that we
have made all this progress in 1972 to-
wards peace, let's reduce our defenses
regardless of what the other side does,"
what you are doing, in effect, is advocat-
ing changing a game plan that has
worked.
Let me put it this way: We wouldn't
have ended the war in Vietnam with
honor, we wouldn't have had the initia-
tive with China, and we would not have
had, without question, the arms control
and other agreements with the Soviet
Union, had the United States not been
strong and respected.
Strength without respect is meaning-
less. That was another reason why this
war had to be ended on an honorable
basis, because otherwise we would have
lost respect, not only of our allies and the
neutrals but also of our potential adver-
saries in the world.
But when we see what has happened
then, we find that the Soviet Union, at
the present time, is preparing to come to
the United States for a return summit
visit in just a few weeks. We are going
to have some very intensive negotiations.
They are even more important than the
negotiations we had last year, although
those were the first and, therefore, the
most newsworthy, because they will move
in arms control and other fields of enor-
mous importance to the future of the
world.
But, gentlemen, let me tell you, in the
event that the President of the United
States goes into meetings with the Soviet
leaders, with the Congress of the United
States having unilaterally cut our de-
fenses, then all hope for an arms control
agreement is completely destroyed. Be-
cause when you really get down to it in
the field of international diplomacy—and
this is true in all fields in life—you can't
get something from anybody else unless
you have something to give.
And I say to you, we must never send
the President of the United States into
any negotiation with anybody as the head
of the second strongest nation of the
world.
Now, gentlemen, if you should go out
and make that kind of a statement, you
sometimes may find people say to you
what they say to me: "Those who are for
a strong defense are for war, and those
who are for disarmament are for peace."
It is just the other way around. Disarma-
ment can lead to peace only if it is mutual.
But let the day never come when we dis-
arm and the other side arms, because that
will enormously increase the danger of
war.
Let me describe it in more specific
terms. For example, in the field of offen-
sive nuclear weapons, we are ready, and
we believe they are ready, for an agree-
ment in which we will mutually agree that
we will have a limitation on the develop-
ment of offensive nuclear weapons.
But in the event, before we go into the
negotiations, we already have reduced
our own strength in that area, then their
incentive for making a deal is completely
out the window, and we are second and
they are first.
Let's go further. Many of you have
served in Europe, I know, and you know
one of the points that is going to come up
in this Congress will be the problem with
regard to what we do about our forces
in Europe. And Americans, 25 years after
World War II, justifiably are concerned
about the fact that we carry such a heavy
load in Europe.
Very well-intentioned men in the House
31-870 - 75 - 39
559
