[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to on October 26 had been settled: the
prospects for an early ceasefire in Laos at
least were firmer, and various technical
improvements had been made in the
agreement. But other problems remained
and, because of the North Vietnamese
approach, they were growing, rather than
shrinking.
On December 16, we explained the rea-
sons for the stalemate. Although many
ambiguities in the provisions had been
clarified, a few remained. We still had to
work out a signing procedure for the
agreement that would accommodate the
sensibilities of the various participants.
We were still far apart on the concepts
of supervisory machinery for the cease-
fire, and the North Vietnamese had al-
lowed no serious discussions of any of the
protocols.
The impasse was created both by North
Vietnamese rigidity on these specific is-
sues and by their whole negotiating ap-
proach. They kept a settlement continu-
ously out of reach by injecting new issues
whenever current ones neared solution. At
technical level meetings, scheduled only to
conform the English and Vietnamese
texts, they raised fresh substantive prob-
lems. Questions already resolved in the
agreement were revived by the North
Vietnamese in the protocols. Instead of
the constructive approach of October,
there were now determined, often
frivolous, tactics designed to frustrate the
negotiations.
In mid-December, therefore, we had
little choice. Hanoi obviously was stalling
for time, hoping that pressures would
force us to make an unsatisfactory agree-
ment. Our South Vietnamese friends, in
turn, still had some strong reservations
about the settlement. The more difficult
Hanoi became, the more rigid Saigon
grew. There was a danger that the set-
tlement which was so close might be pulled
apart by conflicting pressures. We decided
to bring home to both Vietnamese parties
that there was a price for continuing the
conflict.
On December 18, we moved strongly
in both directions. We resumed bombing
north of the 20th parallel in North Viet-
nam, which we had suspended while seri-
ous negotiations were underway. We had
to make clear that Hanoi could not con-
tinue to wage war in the South while its
territory was immune, and that we would
not tolerate an indefinite delay in the
negotiations.
At the same time, we talked sternly
with our friends in South Vietnam. In our
view they were holding out for terms that
were impossible to achieve without several
more years of warfare-if then. We there-
fore reemphasized our determination to
conclude the agreement if the North Viet-
namese should once again prove reason-
able in Paris.
During this time we maintained direct
private communications with Hanoi.
Once we had been assured that serious
talks could again be undertaken, we sus-
pended our bombing of North Vietnam
above the 20th parallel on December 31,
1972.
On January 2, 1973, the technical talks
on the protocols to the agreement re-
sumed in Paris and serious drafting began.
From January 8 to 13, Dr. Kissinger and
Le Duc Tho met. The serious approach
of October reappeared. There was rapid
progress on the remaining issues in the
agreement on the protocols. The residual
ambiguities in the text were resolved. We
agreed on a procedure for signing the
388
