[334] Nov. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
if the voluntary cooperation of keeping
the speed down to 50 miles an hour-and
I am going to talk to the Governors about
that on Tuesday in Memphis, urging that
every State do exactly the same thing-if
we cut back on the aircraft flights, and we
have done that--and, for example, I came
down here in a plane today, Air Force
One. I asked them if I couldn't take the
Jetstar. They said, "No, it doesn't have
communications." So, I had to take the
big plane. But we did one thing that
saved half the cost: We didn't have the
backup plane. Secret Service didn't like
it, Communications didn't like it, but
I don't need a backup plane. If this one
goes down, it goes down-and then they
don't have to impeach. [Laughter]
JOHN MITCHELL
[17] Q. Mr. President, Larry Allison
from the Long Beach, California, Inde-
pendent Press-Telegram. Back to Water-
gate. Former Attorney General John
Mitchell has testified that the reason he
did not give you details on the Watergate
problems was that you did not ask him.
Now, I realize that you were very busy
at that time, as you said, but there were
reports in newspapers that linked peo-
ple very high on your staff with the Water-
gate problems.
Could you tell us, sir, why you did not
ask Mr. Mitchell what he knew?
THE PRESIDENT. For the very simple
reason that when I talked to Mr. Mitch-
ell-and I saw him often in that period-
that I had every reason to believe that if
he were involved, if he had any informa-
tion to convey, he would tell me. I thought
that he would. As a matter of fact, when I
called him on the telephone, what did
he say he expressed chagrin that any-
thing like that could have happened in his
organization.
Looking back, maybe I should have
cross-examined him and said, “John, did
you do it?" I probably should have asked
him, but the reason I didn't is that I ex-
pected him to tell me, and he had every
opportunity to and decided he wouldn't,
apparently. At least-now, that doesn't
mean to tell me that he was involved, be-
cause you understand that is still a mat-
ter that is open. The question is whether
he could have told me about other people
that might be involved where he had in-
formation where members of my staff did
not have information.
Yes, sir.
THE ENERGY CRISIS
[18.] Q. I am Joe Shoquist, Milwaukee
Journal. Why didn't the Administration
anticipate the energy crisis several years
ago, formulate a positive action plan to
do something about it?
THE PRESIDENT. You walked into one
there. And that is a great paper, inciden-
tally, as is the Milwaukee Sentinel. But
anyway, seriously, you see, what happened
was that I sent the first energy message
ever sent to the Congress. I sent it to the
Congress over 2 years ago. I saw this
thing coming. And you know why I saw
it coming? Not because of the Mideast or
the Alaska pipeline and the rest, but be-
cause this world with all of its problems
is getting richer. Oh, I don't mean there
aren't a lot of hungry people not only in
America, too many here, but if you want
to see hungry people, go to India or go
to some of the countries in Latin America
or upper Brazil, et cetera, et cetera. But
generally, as the world gets richer, there
is more air-conditioning, there is more
960
