[318] Oct. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
318 Statement on the Death of Paul Dudley White.
October 31, 1973
IN THE annals of medicine, Dr. Paul
Dudley White will be remembered as a
man who not only revolutionized the
treatment of heart disease but also edu-
cated millions of Americans on ways to
prevent heart attacks. His services in this
field were great and, taken by themselves,
would justify his place in history.
But Dr. White will also be remembered
as the inspired physician who guided Pres-
ident Eisenhower back to health from his
critical heart attack in 1955, an achieve-
ment that won him the gratitude of an
entire nation.
He has left us after a full and rich life
and a dedicated medical career during
which he treated over 12,000 people, rich
and poor, famous and obscure. He will
long stand as a model of all that is best
in American medicine-a source of pride
to physicians and laymen alike.
NOTE: Dr. White, 87, died in Boston, Mass.
319 Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate
William B. Saxbe To Be Attorney General.
November 1, 1973
Ladies and gentlemen:
I have an announcement today with
regard to the new Attorney General.
I shall send to the Senate, as soon as the
papers are prepared, the nomination of
William Saxbe, Senator Saxbe of Ohio,
as the Attorney General of the United
States.
The Senator and I, as I have found
from reading press reports, have had sev-
eral discussions on this in recent days, and
I have found that he is eminently quali-
fied, which I had known before, having
known him for 25 years. I met him first
when he was speaker of the house of rep-
resentatives for the State of Ohio, knew
him when I was Vice President, also,
when he was attorney general of the State
of Ohio, on two different terms.
Not only is he eminently qualified, but
he is an individual who wants to take this
position and to do everything that he pos-
sibly can to serve the Nation as the first
lawyer in the Nation. As a matter of fact,
as you know, Bill Saxbe had already in-
dicated that he wasn't going to run for the
Senate again in Ohio this year and that he
wanted to practice law. So I have given
him the opportunity, with the Senate's
consent-which I think will be over-
whelming to head the largest law firm in
America, the Department of Justice.
He will have, of course, under the rules,
only a brief statement to make, since he
has to answer questions in his confirma-
tion hearings and has to delay any other
questions which might relate to those
hearings. But you can make a statement,
Bill, as I understand, when I complete my
own statement with regard to you, and
also with regard to Mr. Bork.
Mr. Bork, the Acting Attorney General,
who has handled this position with very
great ability during a very difficult time,
has an announcement with regard to the
Special Prosecutor. Mr. Bork will make
912
