[239] Aug. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
after appropriate consultation with the
Congress, we will continue to assure that
the Government of the United States, in
cooperation with other countries, will do
all that it can to help our Pakistani
friends recover from this terrible
devastation.
NOTE The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif
On August 17. 1971. the President sent a
message to Pakistani President Chaudhry Fazal
Elahi extending American condolences to the
victims of the flooding along the Punjab and
Indus Rivers.
240 White House Statement Following a District Court
Order Requiring Production of Presidential Tape
August 29, 1973
Recordings and Documents.
AS MR. WRIGHT pointed out in his oral
argument before the court, in camera in-
spection of these tapes is inconsistent with
the President's position relating to the
question of separation of powers as pro-
vided by the Constitution and the nec-
essity of maintaining the precedent of
confidentiality of private Presidential con-
versations for this President and for
Presidents in the future. The President
consequently will not comply with this
order.
White House Counsel are now consider-
ing the possibility of obtaining appellate
review, or how otherwise to sustain the
President's position.
NOTE: The statement was issued at San Cle-
mente, Calif
Charles Alan Wright was consultant to the
Counsel to the President
John J Sinica, Chief Judge of the United
States District Court for the District of Co-
lumbia, issued the order on August 29. 1973
The text of the order, calling for the production
of the subpoenaed tape recordings and docu-
ments for the Court's examination in camera,
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents vol 9. p. 1044 -
241 White House Statement About the Decision To
Appeal the Court Order Requiring Production of
Presidential Tape Recordings and Documents.
August 30, 1973
THE PRESIDENT met today with his
White House Counsel, and it has been
decided that Counsel will seek review in
the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia of Judge Sirica's order. Appro-
priate papers for obtaining review are
being prepared and will be filed prior to
the expiration of the stay of the order next
Thursday.
NOTE: The statement was issued at San Cle-
mente, Calif.
The texts of documents filed by attorneys for
the President as part of the appellate process
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents vol 9. pp 1061, 1100, and
11547.
728
