[343] Nov. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
At this time, however, we all join
together in a salute to those who are pour-
ing out not only their money but, more
important, their hearts to those who are
suffering from the drought in the six
countries that are affected.
I know that in the world we live in to-
day, where we read of a recent war in
the Mideast, where we hear of the troubles
that we have in the world, and particu-
larly our problems at home in such areas
as energy, that the problems of the coun-
tries involved here seem so very, very
small, and we do not think of them. But
I had the opportunity to talk to one of
the Presidents of one of the nations in-
volved, and also to talk to some of the
ambassadors from these nations, and the
heartrending stories of what happens to
the children, what happens to the families
in these areas where, after living in an
area which was poor before, becomes al-
most unbearable because of the drought
that they have suffered, the lack of water
which has killed the cattle, which has de-
prived them of the very necessities of life.
All of this has brought home to me, as I
am sure it has brought home to all of our
special guests tonight, this truth:
Sometimes we think we are deprived
of this or that. We have to drive a little
slower, we have to turn down our thermo-
stats, perhaps we don't have the ornamen-
tal lighting that we would like to have, be-
cause we don't have the energy sources
that we expected to have in this particu-
lar year. That is in America. It is also, in
a greater extent, in Europe and in other
countries in the world. But in the six
countries involved here, we have more
than that.
It is not simply sacrifice, it is real suf-
fering. And it is suffering that touches
every family in those countries, and it
touches, particularly, the children of those
countries. That is why it is significant that
the sponsors of this ball are not the am-
bassadors, but their wives, not the Presi-
dent, but his wife, because the women of
America, of Africa, of the whole world,
their hearts, particularly, are touched by
such a tragedy.
And I simply want to say that I think
it is a great tribute to all of those who are
the sponsors of this Desert Ball that they
have drawn on the resources of this Na-
tion's Capital and of this whole country,
have drawn on those resources to contrib-
ute some money. Yes, I understand
that it is $50 a plate, and probably the
meal isn't worth that much, even with
the inflation, but on the other hand, with
the entertainment that you have, this
splendid orchestra, the entertainment that
will follow, perhaps it gets pretty close
to the $50, but that isn't really the point.
What this event shows, far more than
money, is that the heart of America goes
out to those who suffer every place in the
world, but particularly to those who suf-
fer in this part of the world, perhaps the
greatest suffering of any people at any
time in our time in the world. And it is
the heart that really matters far more
than the money. America is a rich coun-
try, America is a strong country, but when
it counts, America has a very big heart,
and tonight we all prove it. And I thank
you on behalf of all the American people
by demonstrating to the people of these
countries that they are not forgotten. Even
with our problems, which seem to be so
very large, we realize that our hearts go
out to those whose problems are infinitely
greater. We wish we could do more. We
help with our money, but most of all, we
986
