[73] Mar. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
wanting. There are too many programs
that strengthen the bureaucracy in Wash-
ington but sap the strength of our State
and local governments.
People today want to have a real say in
the way their communities are run. They
want to feel that, once again, they can play
a significant role in shaping the kind of
world their children will inherit. And they
expect their institutions to respond to their
needs and aspirations.
That feeling will never flourish if the
Federal Government, however vast its
financial resources and however good its
intentions, tries to direct the pattern of
our lives. That feeling cannot be manu-
factured in Washington, it must come
from within.
But the Federal Government can and
should eliminate some of the barriers that
have impeded the development of that
74 Radio Address About the
on Law Enforcement and
March 10, 1973
Good afternoon:
Nothing is so precious to Americans as
the freedoms provided in our Constitu-
tion. In order that these freedoms may be
enjoyed to their fullest, there must be
another freedom-freedom from the fear
of crime.
The senseless shooting of Senator John
Stennis in January gave tragic emphasis to
the fact that there is still a high risk of
crime on our Nation's streets. These acts
of violence are the natural residue of an
atmosphere in America that for years en-
couraged potential lawbreakers.
Americans in the last decade were often
told that the criminal was not responsible
feeling by returning resources and initia-
tives to the people and their locally elected
leaders. It is in that spirit that I urge the
93rd Congress to give favorable consid-
eration to my proposals for community
development.
The White House,
March 8, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was the fifth in a series of
six messages to the Congress on the state of the
Union.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the message. Participants in the news brief-
ing were James T. Lynn, Secretary, and Floyd
H. Hyde, Assistant Secretary for Community
Development, Department of Housing and
Urban Development; and Theodore C. Lutz,
Deputy Under Secretary of Transportation for
Budget and Program Review.
State of the Union Message
Drug Abuse Prevention.
for his crimes against society, but that so-
ciety was responsible.
I totally disagree with this permissive
philosophy. Society is guilty of crime only
when we fail to bring the criminal to jus-
tice. When we fail to make the criminal
pay for his crime, we encourage him to
think that crime will pay.
Such an attitude will never be reflected
in the laws supported by this Administra-
tion, nor in the manner in which we en-
force those laws. The jurisdiction of the
Federal Government over crime is limited,
but where we can act, we will act to make
sure that we have the laws, the enforce-
ment agencies, the courts, the judges, the
180
