Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 22 [270]
to disasters by creating an administrative
nightmare for those agencies charged
with providing assistance.
My continuing hope is that we can act
this year to accomplish the much-needed
reforms in our disaster assistance pro-
grams. The proposals I sent to the Con-
gress earlier this year are designed to insure
that the sincere compassion felt by all
Americans for disaster victims can be
translated into the most rapid, effective
and equitable form of disaster assistance
possible. To this end the Administration
will continue to work with the Congress
to enact these comprehensive reforms and,
if need be, to enact a constructive, fiscally
responsible and effective interim measure
which would serve until more permanent
reforms can be made. In the meantime,
ongoing programs will continue to be of
assistance to disaster victims and will not
be affected by my disapproval of S. 1672.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
September 22, 1973.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the President's veto.
The Senate sustained the veto on Septem-
ber 25, 1974.
270 Letter to Senate Leaders About Proposed Reductions
in the Defense Budget. September 22, 1973
Dear Senator Scott:
I am enclosing a copy of a letter I have
sent to Chairman Stennis indicating my
specific concerns about the Defense Pro-
curement Bill now on the Senate floor. I
thought it might be useful to explain to
you the reasons for those concerns.
Current efforts in the Congress to re-
duce the FY 74 Defense budget are deeply
disturbing to me. Prior to submission in
January, that budget was carefully re-
viewed, both within the Department of
Defense and within the National Security
Council system. During this review, the
strategic and diplomatic implications of
lower budgets were thoroughly assessed.
Difficult choices had to be made because
we were mindful of the need to hold down
spending in order to combat inflation.
Marginal defense programs were elimi-
nated and other programs trimmed. I was
convinced then, and I am convinced now,
that the request I finally sent the Congress
was the minimum level consistent with
the Nation's security interests and our
foreign policy objectives.
There is no doubt in my mind that a
strong defense posture is closely linked to
the past success and future development
of our foreign policies. A strong military
posture was a key factor in our opening
of contacts with the Chinese and efforts
to improve our relations with the So-
viets-steps which were in the interest of
the entire nation. A strong defense posture
will continue to be a crucial ingredient
as we try to maintain close relations with
our traditional allies and to prevent con-
flicts and crises that could undermine
efforts to continue to strengthen relations
with the potential adversaries.
It is ironic that in this critical period in
which the United States has so much at
stake in the international arena, argu-
ments to erode our military posture have
gained such currency. We are now en-
gaged in crucial efforts to improve our
trade relationships, to reform the inter-
819
