FOREWORD
THESE ARE the papers for the first year of my second term as
President—a term that was not to be completed. The scholars and
citizens who read these Presidential Papers for 1973 will find much
insight and information in them. Here is the written record of a
momentous year in the life of the Republic. Here are the words
which described and defined our attempts to ensure limited gov-
ernment and fiscal responsibility at home, and to pursue peace
through negotiation rather than confrontation around the world.
But memory, too, has a part to play in history, and I think that
the story of this year especially, cannot be told without an under-
standing of the great tides of opinion and emotion which flowed
during these twelve months. No words can convey our sadness at
the death of Lyndon Johnson just three days before the end of the
Vietnam War.
No words can express the excitement of the beginning of a whole
new era of earth-oriented space research with the launching of the
Skylab space station. And no words can contain the pride we felt
when the first prisoners of war returning from North Vietnam
stepped from the plane and kissed the soil of America.
In the Administration, we had looked forward to nineteen sev-
enty-three as a year of beginnings and renewal. In my Second
Inaugural Address, I described the conditions at home and abroad
which more than ever called for a new application of the old prin-
ciples of strength, restraint, compassion, and common sense.
On January 23rd, we were able to announce the end of Ameri-
ca's longest and costliest and most divisive war. For the first time
in more than a decade, no Americans would be serving or fighting
in Vietnam, and our prisoners of war would at last be returned
to us.
At home, we began the second Administration with a still more
vigorous attempt to reorganize the unwieldy Federal government.
We tried to make the Executive Branch more efficient and func-
tional by the bold and, I believe, farsighted Reorganization Plan of
1973. Since the corollary of a more responsible and responsive
V
