Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 22 [55]
54 Remarks on Receiving the Boy Scouts' Annual Report
to the Nation. February 22, 1973
I WANT to express my appreciation to
all of the delegation here, the outstand-
ing representatives of Scouting in the
United States, and I am glad you have
finally recognized the importance of
having some girls in Scouting, too.
Also, I want you to know that your
projects are of very, very great interest
to me personally and to all in the United
States, I can assure you, including those
who cover us in the press, because they
have heard us often discuss the problem
of drug abuse. They heard the speech,
for example, last week of the problems
of the environment. They, of course, are
enormously interested in physical fitness.
Our young people generally, and Scouts
throughout this country, 6 million of
them, and all of those who support them,
are working toward those goals individu-
ally and voluntarily.
We, as a government, can do a great
deal, but unless the people of the country
cooperate, we can accomplish nothing.
I think there is no other organization—
certainly there is none larger in the United
States-which enlists more volunteers for
these great goals than this one here.
The other thing I would like to say,
which I am sure all of you will appre-
ciate, and particularly your mothers and
fathers: This is the fifth time I have re-
ceived this group, because, as you know,
the President is the honorary president of
the Boy Scouts of America. But this is
the first time as President I have been
able to receive you at a time when I could
say to you, you no longer are confronted
with the draft. You can have a choice
now as to whether you want to enter the
armed services. I hope some of you may,
because it is a very honorable and im-
portant profession.
And also, it is the first time that I can
meet with you, and I can say that the
United States is at peace with all nations
in the world. My greatest hope for you,
in addition to progress on all of these
fronts, which are so important at home,
is that you and your brothers and your
sons may grow up in a world of peace.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Norton Clapp, national president of the Boy
Scouts of America, introduced a group of 16
Scouts who presented the 1972 report and em-
blems of Scouting to the President.
55 Remarks at the Swearing In of Walter E. Washington
as Mayor of the District of Columbia.
February 22, 1973
Mr. Mayor:
It is very significant that you are being
sworn in on Washington's birthday, here
in the city of Washington on Washington's
birthday-to swear in Mayor Washington
for his third term, and also, he is, as we all
know, the first mayor of Washington.
I think history may record-we can't
write it instantly, but in the future—that
he could well have been the best mayor
125
