[122] Apr. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
122
Remarks at the National Conference of Building and
Construction Trades Department, AFL-CIO.
April 16, 1973
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen:
As I look at this head table, and having
met them all before, and having spoken
in this room many times, I must say I have
never been up here with so many presi-
dents. I, therefore, will not pay my re-
spects to each of them individually, except
to say that over the past 4 years I have
been honored many times to meet them in
the Cabinet Room; they have my greatest
respect, as you have. And I appreciate the
fact that so many are here today at a time
that I greet you on behalf of the whole
Nation, and I say on behalf of the Nation,
because one of the great privileges of a
President is that he can speak to any group
in this country, whatever their views may
be, and try to represent what he thinks are
the national views, what the country owes
to a group.
As I begin, I want to tell you several of
the reasons why I am honored to be here
before this group. One is because from this
group came Secretary Brennan.
Now, I have noted, as you have, that
there are some in the labor movement who
have criticized Secretary Brennan recently
for "selling out" on certain issues. Let me
say one thing: Pete Brennan never sells
out on anything. He fights for what he
believes all the way down the line. And
Pete Brennan is also a teamplayer.
You, as representatives of organized
labor, know that you don't win them all.
You, as representatives of organized labor,
know, however, you have got to fight down
the line for your point of view. You win
some; you lose some; you compromise
some. That is the rule of life. And then
once you have made the settlement,
you are a teamplayer. And that is Pete
Brennan.
Let me give you some examples. I know,
for example, on the youth differential
matter, which is one that is of great inter-
est in the Congress at the present time,
that Pete Brennan was criticized because
that did not represent the views, many
said, of most of those in organized labor.
On the other hand, that position was
presented by Pete Brennan to the Con-
gress because a decision was made in the
Cabinet, after considering all the prob-
lems and after consulting with the legis
lative leaders, that that was the proper
decision to make.
Now, let me put one on the other side.
We also had a very tough decision with
regard to unemployment insurance. And I
hope you noted that in the package, and I
hope Pete speaks about it in his speech this
afternoon, because there was a problem of
extending unemployment insurance to
agricultural workers and others not cov-
ered, and there was also the problem of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of having
national standards in which one-half of
whatever the individual's pay would be is
required in every State under the State
unemployment insurance programs.
That has always been a controversial
issue. We decided to bite the bullet on that
issue and on the extension to farmworkers.
Now, in this area, as Pete Brennan could
tell you, the Secretary of Commerce
argued vigorously on the other side be-
cause he was representing the views of a
lot of business. The Secretary of Agricul-
290
