Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 27 [275]
275 Special Message to the Congress Proposing Patent
Modernization and Reform Legislation.
September 27, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
America's dramatic progress from a
small agrarian nation to a great techno-
logical and industrial leader has been
due, in no small degree, to the inventive
genius of its people. Names such as Ben-
jamin Franklin, Eli Whitney, Cyrus Mc-
Cormick, Thomas Edison, Alexander
Graham Bell, Samuel Morse, the Wright
Brothers and Henry Ford speak volumes
about the character of our Nation.
Our creative history, however, has not
been a matter of individual inspiration
alone. Our Founding Fathers understood
the need for innovative thinking and
wrote into the Constitution a means of
encouraging invention the patent sys-
tem-which has enormously stimulated
our progress and prosperity.
The national patent system authorized
by the Constitution took on form and sub-
stance with enactment of special patent
acts in 1790, 1793 and 1836. The act of
1836 provided statutory criteria for the
issuance of patents and required the Fed-
eral Patent Office to examine applica-
tions to determine whether they con-
formed to those criteria. Although this
1836 law has since been amended, no
basic change has been made in its gen-
eral character and it now forms the basis
for our present patent system.
While the patent system has changed
only slightly since the nineteenth century,
the social and economic structure of our
Nation has, of course, undergone pro-
found change. The individual inventor,
often working alone and unaided, still
makes an important contribution, but the
lead role in exploring new frontiers of
technology is now played by organized re-
search-sophisticated and highly capable
teams funded by our Government, indus-
try and universities.
The changing nature of applied re-
search has understandably raised questions
about the adequacy of our patent system.
Over the past seven years a number of
searching studies have been made of that
system, including a report by a special
Presidential Commission in 1966. Those
studies have shown that a successful
patent system should meet at least four
basic standards. It should:
-provide an incentive for new inven-
tions by offering a meaningful reward to
the inventor and to his supporters;
-promote early public disclosures of
new discoveries, so that others may also
benefit;
-encourage other researchers to ex-
plore alternative solutions to crucial
technological problems; and
-through the process of discovery and
disclosure, widen the opportunity for con-
sumers to choose products of higher qual-
ity and lower price.
In recent years, it has become increas-
ingly clear that our current patent system
does not measure up to these standards.
The United States Patent Office now ex-
amines patent applications in an ex parte
fashion-a series of hearings involving
only Patent Office personnel and the party
applying for a new patent. The very
nature of the examination process denies
825
