[160] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
speak to all of you all over the country,
as you complete your high school or col-
lege education this spring-let me say to
you the profession of serving this country
in the new volunteer armed force of the
1970's offers a career in which any young
man or woman can find great pride and
satisfaction; be proud to wear the uni-
form of the United States of America.
Over the past several years, the chances
for peace have grown immeasurably
stronger, not only in Southeast Asia but
all over the world. We have brought this
long war in Vietnam to an end. After a
generation of hostility, the United States
has opened a new relationship with the
leaders of one-fourth of all the people
who live in the world, the People's Re-
public of China. We have negotiated far-
reaching agreements with our longtime
adversary the Soviet Union, including
the first limitation of strategic nuclear
arms. We have begun revitalizing our
Atlantic partnership with Western Eu-
rope and our Pacific partnership with
Japan.
In the explosive Middle East, we
averted a major crisis in 1970. We have
helped to establish a cease-fire which is
now well into its third year.
There are still enormously difficult
problems there and in other parts of the
world, but we have come a long way over
these past 5 years toward building a struc-
ture of peace in the world-much further
simply than ending a long war, but build-
ing a structure that will avoid other wars,
and that is what every American wants,
and that is what we are working toward
today.
I know that some might interpret the
achievements I have just mentioned as
the result of diplomacy, diplomacy from
the President and the Secretary of State
and others who have responsibility. But
that interpretation would be incomplete.
The positions that a head of state or a
diplomat puts forward at the conference
table are only as good as the national
strength that stands behind those
positions.
So it has been the respect of other coun-
tries for our military strength that has
been vital to our many negotiating suc-
cesses during the past 4 years. And that
same military strength helps secure our
own security and that of our friends as we
go forward with them in building new
partnerships.
What I am saying to you today is that
a large share of the credit for America's
progress toward building a structure of
peace in the world goes to you, the men
and women in uniform. You are the peace
forces of the United States, because with-
out you, we couldn't have made the prog-
ress we have made. They would not have
respected us, and without strength, we
would not have the respect which leads to
progress. Let's keep that strength and
never let it down, because our further
hopes for peace also rely on you.
This year, the year 1973. we face a
series of negotiations even more signifi-
cant than those of the year 1972, negotia-
tions that will help to determine the
future of international peace and coopera-
tion for the rest of this century and
beyond.
Every time I see an audience like this.
I look at everybody-the older people,
particularly the people that I see over
here in wheelchairs, and also the young
people, those that are so young, with all
of their years ahead-and my greatest
hope is: Make this country a better coun-
542
