[340] Nov. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
were not very good medicine for a lot of
people, but let's think about it for just a
moment.
What does it really mean to the average
family in America? What does it really
mean in terms of suffering, real suffer-
ing, to have to put the thermostat down
to 68? As a matter of fact, as I have often
said, my doctor says 68 is a lot more
healthy than 74. Of course, he doesn't
have a sweater, or I don't have a sweater,
but whatever the case might be, it appar-
ently means that 68 degrees is not going
to cause any suffering for America. It
means that we are going to have to get
used to that lower temperature, and we
will save hundreds of thousands of bar-
rels of oil critically needed during this
year as a result of the energy crisis that
has been hypoed by what has happened
in the Mideast.
Let's talk just a minute about driving.
Now, I don't drive a car. As a matter of
fact, I haven't driven a car since I be-
came President. The Secret Service
doesn't trust my driving. They say they
have got to drive. I don't trust their driv-
ing, but that is all right. In any event, they
drive the car, I sit in the back seat, and
I must admit that sometimes we have
gone well over 50. In California, on the
freeways and there are some Califor-
nians here; Paul, you know California-
it is 70 miles an hour, right?-and most
people go 80. So under the circum-
stances well, 5 or 10 above the speed
limit; shall we say 75?
But now I have called upon all of the
American people to drive their cars at 50
miles per hour. Now, what is that going
to mean? It means it is going to take a
little longer to get where you are going to
go, a little longer to get to work, a little
longer to get to the ball game, a little
longer to get to church, maybe a little
longer to make the trip to see your
mother-in-law--maybe that wasn't a good
idea; you wouldn't mind taking a little
longer.
But on the other hand, in terms of what
it means in other respects, let's look at the
plus side. Going at 50 miles an hour means
that you are going to be much safer, be-
cause all of the studies that have been
made by those that are interested in
traffic safety indicate that if you reduce
the speed limit by 5 miles an hour or 10
miles an hour, the chance for accidents
goes down by almost geometrical propor-
tions.
Second, it means, of course, that we are
going to save hundreds of thousands of
barrels of oil, because if you go at 50
rather than at 70, it means that we are
going to operate in a more efficient way.
We can speak, of course, of the other
things that I requested the American
people to join in on a voluntary basis,
and once we get legislation it will be neces
sary to make some of these things compul-
sory, but as we think of driving 50 miles
an hour, as we think of bringing the ther-
mostats down to 68 degrees, as we think,
for example, of not having our ornamen-
tal lights on outside, I don't know that that
is going to hurt anybody. It is not going
to be as pretty. If you come home a little
late, around 2 or 3 in the morning, you
may get in the wrong door, but who
knows, there might be somebody interest-
ing behind that door. [Laughter] So under
the circumstances, to have the ornamental
lights cut down across this country, except,
of course, where they are used to designate
a place of business, I don't think is going
to cost us much in terms of suffering, and
it is going to mean a great deal in terms
of seeing to it that people in New England,
978
