[53] Feb. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
but how we help. By eliminating pro-
grams that are wasteful, we can concen-
trate on programs that work.
Our recent round of budget cuts can
save $11 billion in this fiscal year, $19 bil-
lion next fiscal year, and $24 billion the
year after. That means an average sav-
ing of $700 over the next three years for
each of America's 75 million taxpayers.
Without the savings I have achieved
through program reductions and reforms,
those spending totals respectively would
be $261 billion, $288 billion and $312 bil-
lion-figures which would spell either
higher taxes, a new surge of crippling
inflation, or both.
To hold the line on Federal spending,
it is absolutely vital that we have the full
cooperation of the Congress. I urge the
Congress, as one of its most pressing re-
sponsibilities, to adopt an overall spend-
ing ceiling for each fiscal year. I also ask
that it establish a regular procedure for
ensuring that the ceiling is maintained.
THE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE
In recent years, the attention of Amer-
icans has increasingly turned to the seri-
ous questions confronting us in interna-
tional trade and in the monetary arena.
This is no longer the era in which the
United States, preeminent in science,
marketing and services, can dominate
world markets with the advanced prod-
ucts of our technology and our advanced
means of production.
This is no longer the era in which the
United States can automatically sell more
abroad than we purchase from foreign
countries.
We face new challenges in international
competition and are thus in a period of
substantial adjustment in our relations
with our trading partners.
One consequence of these developments
was the step we took last week to change
the relative value of the dollar in trading
abroad.
We took this step because of a serious
trade imbalance which could threaten the
mounting prosperity of our people. Amer-
ica has been buying more from other
countries than they have been buying from
us. And just as a family or a company
cannot go on indefinitely buying more
than it sells, neither can a country.
Changing the exchange rates will help
us change this picture. It means our ex-
ports will be priced more competitively in
the international marketplace and should
therefore sell better. Our imports, on the
other hand, will not grow as fast.
But this step must now be followed by
reforms which are more basic.
First, we need a more flexible inter-
national monetary system, one that will
lead to balance without crisis. The United
States set forth fundamental proposals for
such a system last September. It is time
for other nations to join us in getting
action on these proposals.
Secondly, American products must get
a fairer shake in a more open world trad-
ing system so that we can extend Ameri-
can markets and expand American jobs.
If other countries make it harder for our
products to be sold abroad, then our trade
imbalance can only grow worse.
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONGRESS
America is assuredly on the road to a
new era of prosperity. The roadsigns are
clear, and we are gathering more mo-
mentum with each passing month. But we
122
