[173] June 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
is not air-conditioned, if that residence, of
course, is owned by someone who can af-
ford it. Now, what does that mean? That
air-conditioning is the end of all things?
Not at all.
What it does mean is that the increased
demand for energy, whether it is in Asia
or Europe or the United States, is a good
thing. Now, what we need is the tech-
nology to fill that demand, and we can
do it-new methods, for example, for
developing the resources of the world.
You read, for example, about the Soviet
gas deal. There are reserves in the Soviet
Union, and in Alaska, and in the North
Sea that are infinitely greater than any
that have ever been discovered before in
the field of gas, but that is not all.
I mention nuclear energy. I mention
the use of coal. In all of this area we can
move forward. We have a temporary
problem, but long-term we have an op-
portunity, an opportunity to fill the de-
mands of all the people of the world,
including particularly the underdeveloped
world, for a better standard of life.
Let me turn to environment. I know
that every college class and university
class is concerned about the environment,
and you should be. You fortunately don't
have, in Florida, much smog. That is one
difference between Orange County, Flor-
ida, and Orange County, California. We
have some out there.
But we see the Skylab on our televi-
sion. The genius that could send men to
the Moon, the genius that could produce
the Skylab, the genius that built America
into the strongest and most productive
nation in the world, the science, scientists,
the technicians, all of the engineers, all of
those that could do that, certainly they
can find the way to clean the air and clean
the water and do the other things that
will build a better environment in
America.
We have started, and we will continue.
So, this is a problem, but it is an opportu-
nity. And I say Americans will, when they
have a problem, they will solve it because
we have the genius to solve it, the same
genius that built America and made us
what we are today.
So, as I look to the future of the Ameri-
can economy, we are, of course, the most
productive, the richest nation in the world.
We can continue to be, and we shall con-
tinue to be.
But, there is a third element, in addi-
tion to the military strength and the eco-
nomic strength, that we must have if
America is to maintain its position of
world leadership, which is so essential for
the peace of the world. And that is some-
thing I would describe as the American
spirit.
There were many in this country who
had doubts about that spirit during the
long agony of the war in Vietnam. As it
came to an end, even, there were many
who did not have those doubts lifted. But
then something quite wonderful hap-
pened.
As our men came back from those POW
camps, who had been there 5 years, 6
years, 7 years and I shook hands with
every one of them at the White House just
a few days ago as they came back, stand-
ing straight, saluting the flag of the United
States, saying, "God bless America," we
realized that our people, the American
people, have the strength and the char-
acter to lead the world, as we will lead
the world toward peace, in these years
ahead.
We can be thankful that America could
produce such men and, may I add, that
America could produce such women as
582
