[211] July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions is such that these principles apply
with even greater force to tapes of private
Presidential conversations than to Presi-
dential papers.
If release of the tapes would settle the
central questions at issue in the Watergate
inquiries, then their disclosure might serve
a substantial public interest that would
have to be weighed very heavily against
the negatives of disclosure.
The fact is that the tapes would not
finally settle the central issues before your
Committee. Before their existence became
publicly known, I personally listened to a
number of them. The tapes are entirely
consistent with what I know to be the
truth and what I have stated to be the
truth. However, as in any verbatim re-
cording of informal conversations, they
contain comments that persons with dif-
ferent perspectives and motivations would
inevitably interpret in different ways. Fur-
thermore, there are inseparably inter-
spersed in them a great many very frank
and very private comments, on a wide
range of issues and individuals, wholly
extraneous to the Committee's inquiry.
Even more important, the tapes could
be accurately understood or interpreted
only by reference to an enormous number
of other documents and tapes, so that to
open them at all would begin an endless
process of disclosure and explanation of
private Presidential records totally unre-
lated to Watergate, and highly confiden-
tial in nature. They are the clearest
possible example of why Presidential
documents must be kept confidential.
Accordingly, the tapes, which have
been under my sole personal control, will
remain so. None has been transcribed or
made public and none will be.
On May 22nd I described my knowl-
edge of the Watergate matter and its
aftermath in categorical and unambigu-
ous terms that I know to be true. In my
letter of July 6th, I informed you that at
an appropriate time during the hearings
I intend to address publicly the subjects
you are considering. I still intend to do
so and in a way that preserves the Con-
stitutional principle of separation of
powers, and thus serves the interests not
just of the Congress or of the President,
but of the people.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr, Chairman, Select
Committee on Presidential Campaign Activi-
ties, United States Senate, Washington, D.C.
20510]
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the text of a letter from Charles Alan
Wright, consultant to the Counsel to the Presi-
dent, to Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox ex-
plaining the decision not to comply with the
Special Prosecutor's requests for tape record-
ings of the President's personal conversations
The text of the letter is printed in the Weekly
vol.
Compilation of Presidential Documents
9, p. 921).
On July 16, 1973, the White House had re-
leased the text of a letter from J. Fred Buzhardt,
Special Counsel to the President, to Senator
Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, Senate Select
Committee on Presidential Campaign Activi-
ties, confirming the existence of tape recordings
of Presidential conversations. The text of the
letter is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 9, p. 905).
658
