Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 15 [45]
of six messages to the Congress on the state of
the Union.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news brief-
ing on programs contained in the message. Par-
ticipants in the news briefing were Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Interior; J. Phil
Campbell, Under Secretary of Agriculture;
Russell E. Train, Chairman of the Council on
Environmental Quality; and William D.
Ruckelshaus, Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
45
Remarks About United States Relations With Europe.
February 15, 1973
I HAVE SAID this is the year of Eu-
rope. . . . This is not to say that we are
not placing enormous emphasis on com-
pleting the settlement in Southeast Asia
and on continuing to build our relation-
ship and dialog with the PRC and the
Soviet Union, and our policy in this hemi-
sphere-in Latin America. But the year
of Europe becomes very important in
both the economic context, which was
brought home by the recent monetary sit-
uation, and also in terms of the national
security context, because of the fact that
MBFR mutual balanced force reduc-
tions—will be a subject on our agenda this
year, not only first with our European al-
lies but also with the Soviet Union, and
also because of the European Security
Conference. It will not be specifically
military matters....
I have nothing substantive to say at this
point on MBFR and the European Secu-
rity Conference except to say these mat-
ters will be under very intense discus-
sion within the Administration, and also
between this Government and the govern-
ments of our European allies. They were a
major subject of discussion with Prime
Minister Heath. Naturally, you would ex-
pect that these would lead to economic
considerations—the problem of trade,
which can be very interesting and some-
times very difficult-with our European
friends as well as the Japanese.
We must not overlook the fact that tied
into all this are the security arrange-
ments that we have with Europe and
Japan. The United States at the present
time, after going through Vietnam, will
hear, understandably, voices raised, very
sincere voices, that "After Vietnam, let's
throw up our hands, turn inward, and
withdraw from our obligations in the
world."
One of the reasons I considered it
vitally important that the war in Viet-
nam be ended in what I think was the
right way, peace with honor, was that it
was essential to demonstrate both to our
allies in Europe, the Japanese, and other
allies, the Thais and so forth, and to po-
tential adversaries, that the United States
is a dependable ally. All the power in the
world lodged in the United States means
nothing unless those who depend upon
U.S. power to protect them from the pos-
sibilities of aggression from other powers—
which they themselves would not be able
to do all the power in the world here
means nothing unless there is some assur-
ance, some confidence, some trust that the
United States will be credible, will be
dependable.
I am quite aware of the fact that much
concern was expressed by our good friends
and allies in the world-that we under-
stand, too—not only with regard to our
involvement in Vietnam, the decisions
103
