[77] Mar. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
tries, whether it is in Africa, Asia, Latin
America, all of these countries, there are
just many unsung heroines. They are the
wives of our Foreign Service at all levels
who do the job of the entertaining and all
that sort of thing, which, to me, would
be the most difficult of all-you may have
to eat with somebody you don't particu-
larly care for [laughter]-but in addition
to that, who go out and engage in these
volunteer activities, volunteer activities
working with the local people, communi-
cating with them in a way that some-
times their husbands really can't do. And
for this we are very grateful.
I want to say that we are proud of our
Foreign Service, and I would only close by
saying something to you that you should
say to your husbands.
I was talking to a good friend of mine
in the Foreign Service recently, and I
said, "What are you doing?" He said, “Oh,
it is not very important." He was working
on some problem, I think, that had to do
with a Latin American country, and so
forth, a desk officer and the like.
He said, "You know, it is really not very
important when you think of what has
happened in the last year, the trip to
Peking, and the trip to Moscow, and the
ending of the war in Vietnam, these great
big plays." And he was working on this
little problem in Latin America.
All that I can say, and I think all of you
know, is, the world is inseparable, and
little problems today can become very big
ones tomorrow.
I remember sitting in the only air-con-
ditioned room that I recall in Southeast
Asia in 1953. It belonged to Ambassador
Heath. Let me say, the Government
hadn't paid for it, he had put in his
own air-conditioning. It was in his bed-
room, and we sat there and talked because
it was terribly hot. It was in Saigon.
I remember talking to Ambassador
Heath at that time about the problems
there, and so forth, and he said, "Well,
you are visiting some really exciting coun-
tries." I was going from there to India, I
had just been to Indonesia, both much
bigger than Vietnam. At that time Viet-
nam was one country. We also went to
Hanoi. We never stayed in the Hilton,
but we went to Hanoi.
And I remember Heath, a fine Ambas-
sador. He didn't say that his job was not
important, because he could see the great
forces that were beginning to work even
then. But he was pointing out, this is a
small country. It may not be the most im-
portant country, and yet that was a coun-
try that played a great role in the future
of America.
Who knows what is the important job?
Who knows what is one that is going to
matter? Everything matters. Every coun
try matters. And we want all of your hus-
bands to know that while they all didn't
go to Peking or to Moscow, that if we are
able to build a structure of peace in the
world, it is because our Foreign Service-
far-flung, representing America all over
the world our Foreign Service and their
wives have all helped to lay each of those
bricks that was so important in the foun-
dation, without which we wouldn't have
a real foundation. And if it is built, and
we hope it will be, and we will continue
to make progress, you can all take a lot of
credit.
That is what I wanted to say to you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 pm. in the
State Dining Room at the White House to
members of the association.
190
