[249] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary will
have a press conference tomorrow before
he leaves for talks at the Tokyo meeting.
It will be general in character.
There has been a rather dramatic drop.
Let me say, since we always say, when we
give the briefings, don't pay any attention
to one month's figures when they are
bad-this one-week figure, which was very
good and is one which must be kept in
context, will report a dramatic drop in
soybeans and corn which has taken place
since they took the numbers off. They
publish tomorrow as to the increase in the
wholesale price index which is, of course,
very substantial as predicted.
And then he's going on first to Japan
and then coming back here and then go-
ing to Nairobi, and then you are going
from Nairobi to Russia?
SECRETARY SHULTZ. To Russia.
THE PRESIDENT. And then to Bonn?
SECRETARY SHULTZ. Then to Bonn and
Yugoslavia finally.
THE PRESIDENT. When are you going to
be back here? [Laughter]
SECRETARY SHULTZ. I'll be gone for 2
weeks all together.
THE PRESIDENT. Is that all? Fine, fine.
When do you sleep? [Laughter]
SECRETARY SHULTZ. On the airplane.
REPORTER. What time is the press con-
ference?
SECRETARY SHULTZ. Well, I think prob-
ably around noon. I think you have a Cab-
inet meeting at 10, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. The Cabinet is at 10,
and you should be ready for that I con-
sider this, incidentally, an important press
conference-and you can also go into
these tax matters and all the prospects in
that field and so forth.
One of our major problems, inciden-
tally, I might say, is, as you were just talk-
ing about the trade bill, Wilbur Mills' in-
capacity. I don't know whether you knew
he has just had an operation, a disc opera-
tion, which, incidentally, if he had asked
me, I would have told him never to have
it. I haven't had one, but I have never
known one that was successful.
SECRETARY SHULTZ. Well, it was re-
ported. I talked to him earlier this week.
THE PRESIDENT. Surgeons always want
to cut, but nevertheless, I remember when
he sat in a chair the other day, one of those
straight chairs, that is when he told me
about his-when he lectured John Ken-
nedy on the fact. "Look here, Mr. Presi-
dent," he said, "there is no chance for even
a Democratic Congress to give a Demo-
cratic President the chance to move taxes
up and down." Remember, he said that.
So, he said, "Please don't ask us for the in-
vestment tax credit."
But the problem in Mr. Mills' case is
that he is so vital for our trade legislation.
He is the leader in this area, not that Mr.
Ullman-
Secretary SHULTZ. Mr. Ullman is tak-
ing hold very well.ยน
THE PRESIDENT. He is a top-flight man.
But Mills we have counted on, we have
been working with a great deal, and when
he is not there, we miss him. That doesn't
mean we are pessimistic about the out-
come. It does mean that our timetable
may slow down just a bit.
Secretary SHULTZ. Well, the commit-
tee met yesterday, and they have met to-
day, and all of our reports--and I have
talked to Congressman Ullman a couple
of times in the last few days are that the
committee is moving well through the bill
'Representative Al Ullman was acting
chairman of the House Ways and Means Com-
mittee during Representative Wilbur D Mills'
absence.
750
