Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. I [279]
278 Statement About Pay Increases for Federal
Employees. September 28, 1973
THE Senate's action today in overturn-
ing my plan to defer Federal pay raises
for a 2-month period comes as a distinct
disappointment.
It occurs at a time when we are at-
tempting to hold down Federal spending
in order to reduce inflationary pressures
in the economy. This Senate action will
add $340 million to Federal outlays and
place additional strains not only on the
taxpayers but also on other Government
activities already hard-pressed for ade-
quate funding.
My proposal called for a deferral of
Federal pay increases from October until
December of this year as an essential part
of our fight against rising prices. Infla-
tion is a serious national concern, and
most Americans are undergoing sacrifices
as their National Government strives to
bring it under control.
As one of the largest groups of workers
in the country, Federal employees recog-
nize that they have a special obligation to
join in this fight, and they have consis-
tently met that obligation. They had a pay
increase of more than 5 percent some 9
months ago, and I am confident that
many of them would have been prepared
to delay another increase until late this
year.
The Senate's action makes it necessary
for pay adjustments to become effective
this October. Having considered the rec-
ommendations of my Federal pay “agent”
(Director of the Office of Management
and Budget and the Chairman of the Civil
Service Commission), the Federal Em-
ployees Pay Council, and my advisory
committee on Federal pay, I have de-
cided to issue Executive orders early next
week that will place into effect a 4.77 per-
cent pay increase for civil service em-
ployees and comparable increases for the
military services and other pay systems.
The pay increases will be effective on the
first pay period beginning on or after
October 1, 1973.
279 Statement on Signing the Domestic Volunteer Service
Act of 1973. October 1,
IT IS with great pleasure today that I am
signing into law the Domestic Volunteer
Service Act of 1973, extending and
strengthening the mandate of ACTION
to serve as a spearhead of our voluntary
service programs.
In creating ACTION 2 years ago with
the consent of the Congress, I hoped that
the new Agency would help us restructure
our thinking about volunteer services in
America. We needed to build upon what
we had learned in our volunteer poverty
1973
programs and then to expand our efforts
to other community and national prob-
lems. Volunteer programs had to become
relevant to the needs and demands of the
1970's.
The bill I am signing today translates
those hopes into concrete reality. By
broadening State and local participation
in ACTION programs, it gives every com-
munity a much better chance to solve its
own problems. Local initiative and local
responsibility should now become the driv-
|
835
