Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 5 [246]
All that I have are the two pieces of
property in Florida which adjoin each
other, the piece of property in San Cle-
mente with which you are familiar, and
a house on Whittier Boulevard in which
my mother once lived. I have no other
property, and I owe money on all of them.
Third, as far as the capital gain matter,
which is a technical matter that you have
mentioned, I should point out-and may-
be this is good news for people who won-
der if Presidents are exempt from what
the IRS does the IRS has had a full
field review or audit of my income tax
returns for 1971 and 1972 and included
in its audit the transaction which you refer
to, in which some argue there was a capital
gain and some argue that there was not.
It is a matter of difference between
accountants.
The IRS, after its audit, did not order
any change. If it had, I would have paid
the tax. It did not order a change.
Now, with regard to the audit itself is
concerned, the results of that audit insofar
as the acquisition of the property have
been put out. That is all that is going to
be put out, because I think that is a full
disclosure.
I would simply say, finally, that in this
particular case I realize that naturally
there is a suspicion that a President, be-
cause he has the great power of this office
and because he has the benefit of Secret
Service, GSA, and all the rest to protect
him, that he some way or other is going to
profit from all of that security that is
provided for him.
As I pointed out in my press conference
2 weeks ago, I'd far less rather have the
security than have my privacy, but that
just can't be done.
INFLATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, a couple of eco-
nomic questions, please. You said in your
opening statement that you hope eventu-
ally that inflation will be stopped. Can you
define "eventually" more specifically?
And furthermore, what, if anything,
should be done now to free up mortgage
money
for home purposes?
THE PRESIDENT. I am afraid I cannot
be any more perceptive than my economic
advisers have been, and their
guesses with
regard to, as you know, the numbers, inso-
far as inflation this year, have not been
very good. I do not blame them, however,
because as you know, we had the prob-
lems of weather in the United States and
abroad, an unprecedented demand abroad
which was unforeseen as far as we were
concerned, that gave the impetus to food
prices, and there were other factors which
led to the inflationary pressures which our
economic advisers did not foresee.
I cannot set a date on it, no. I mean,
if I were to try to, I would be misleading
the public, the people, as to when they
could expect that inflation would start to
recede. I do say this, however: We are
doing everything that we think should be
done and that can be done, to stop the
inflation without bringing on a recession,
and that is the name of the game.
It is very easy to turn the crank so tight
that you have a hard landing, and we
don't want a hard landing. We have had
too many experiences like that, as you
know, since World War II. So, what we
have then is a system of controls, as I have
indicated earlier. We are tightening up on
the Federal Reserve, we are-Arthur
Burns, in his independent capacity, with
737
