[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
reform must come in 1974. We will move
forward this fall with the work needed
for the introduction of legislation at an
early date.
An attainable goal for these final
months of 1973 is passage of the Admin-
istration's proposed Health Maintenance
Organization Assistance Act, which
would provide Federal money to demon-
strate the promising innovation of group
medical centers where quality care can be
maximized and costs minimized. The Sen-
ate has passed a bill to further the HMO
concept. That bill, however, calls for a
full-scale development effort rather than
a limited demonstration program. A na-
tional development effort would require
funding levels far beyond what is needed
or what we can afford. The House is pres-
ently developing a bill which would be
a fiscally responsible demonstration effort.
If such a bill is passed by the full Con-
gress, I will support it.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
The Administration will also work
closely with the Congress in the weeks
ahead to obtain final passage of our bill to
establish a Legal Services Corporation
which would provide the poor with qual-
ity legal representation, would be free
from political pressures, and would in-
clude safeguards to ensure its operation
in a responsible manner. Legal Services
legislation has passed the House. Nothing
should now stand in the way of prompt
Senate action.
without bringing an end to the special
Federal relationship with recognized In-
dian tribes. To that end, there are now six
major pieces of legislation pending in the
Congress which I proposed as long ago
as July of 1970. This legislation would
help to foster greater self-determination
for the Indians, to expand their business
opportunities, and to provide better pro-
tection of their natural resources. Many
Indian leaders have indicated strong sup-
port for this legislation, and I would hope
that the Congress will now act on it with
the speed that it so clearly deserves.
PENSIONS FOR VETERANS
This Administration strongly believes
that the Nation owes a special debt to its
veterans, and we have tried to fulfill that
obligation by supporting a number of im-
provements in veterans legislation. Dur-
ing the past four years, for instance, I have
twice signed bills increasing the educa-
tional benefits for veterans and, during
the current year, I have signed into law
bills covering health care and cemetery
benefits. All of those bills were the prod-
uct of close cooperation between the Con-
gress and the Administration.
The Congress is currently considering
new pension legislation for veterans. With
certain modifications, this bill would be a
good first step toward the full reform
which I believe to be necessary and which
should be considered during the early
days of the next session of the Congress.
INDIAN LEGISLATION
The steadfast policy of this Adminis-
stration is to advance the opportunities of
American Indians for self-determination
CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Early in 1971, after the Congress had
failed to act on my proposal to create an
Office of Consumer Affairs, I established
such an office by Executive order. The of-
776
