[29] Feb. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
29 State of the Union Message to the Congress:
Overview and Goals. February 2, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
The traditional form of the President's
annual report giving "to the Congress In-
formation of the State of the Union" is
a single message or address. As the affairs
and concerns of our Union have mul-
tiplied over the years, however, so too
have the subjects that require discussion
in State of the Union Messages.
This year in particular, with so many
changes in Government programs under
consideration—and with our very philos-
ophy about the relationship between the
individual and the State at an historic
crossroads a single, all-embracing State
of the Union Message would not appear
to be adequate.
I have therefore decided to present my
1973 State of the Union report in the
form of a series of messages during these
early weeks of the 93rd Congress. The
purpose of this first message in the series
is to give a concise overview of where we
stand as a people today, and to outline
some of the general goals that I believe
we should pursue over the next year and
beyond. In coming weeks, I will send to
the Congress further State of the Union
reports on specific areas of policy includ-
ing economic affairs, natural resources,
human resources, community develop-
ment and foreign and defense policy.
The new course these messages will out-
line represents a fresh approach to Gov-
ernment: an approach that addresses the
realities of the 1970s, not those of the
1930s or of the 1960s. The role of the
Federal Government as we approach our
third century of independence should not
be to dominate any facet of American
life, but rather to aid and encourage peo-
ple, communities and institutions to deal
with as many of the difficulties and chal-
lenges facing them as possible, and to help
see to it that every American has a full
and equal opportunity to realize his or
her potential.
If we were to continue to expand the
Federal Government at the rate of the
past several decades, it soon would con-
sume us entirely. The time has come when
we must make clear choices-choices be-
tween old programs that set worthy goals
but failed to reach them and new pro-
grams that provide a better way to realize
those goals; and choices, too, between
competing programs-all of which may
be desirable in themselves but only some
of which we can afford with the finite
resources at our command.
Because our resources are not infinite,
we also face a critical choice in 1973 be-
tween holding the line in Government
spending and adopting expensive pro-
grams which will surely force up taxes and
refuel inflation.
Finally, it is vital at this time that we
restore a greater sense of responsibility at
the State and local level, and among in-
dividual Americans.
WHERE WE STAND
The basic state of our Union today is
sound, and full of promise.
We enter 1973 economically strong,
militarily secure and, most important of
all, at peace after a long and trying war.
America continues to provide a better
and more abundant life for more of its
people than any other nation in the world.
We have passed through one of the
74
