[270] Sept. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
national monetary system, and to obtain
oil supplies from parts of the world
fraught with tension. Strong American
military forces, by making a vital contri-
bution to international stability, provide
us with the influence and leverage we
need in negotiating with both our allies
and our potential enemies. All of our
efforts to secure a more peaceful and pros-
perous world will be endangered if we
unilaterally erode our defense posture.
Unilateral reductions would be partic-
ularly destructive for two sets of nego-
tiations that will begin soon and will
have a profound effect upon the future.
Within a matter of about a month, we
will be embarking on a new and extremely
important phase of the strategic arms
limitation talks. The SALT talks will focus
on ways of controlling the qualitative
aspects of the arms race. This would be a
most inopportune time to weaken our
position unilaterally by cutting back on
new U.S. weapons systems that demon-
strate to the Soviets we will not stand
aside while they continue to make qualita-
tive improvements to their forces.
The second set of negotiations-discus-
sions with the Warsaw Pact regarding mu-
tual troop reductions in Europe-should
also begin shortly. A strong defense ca-
pability and a visible posture of unity on
the part of the American public, its Con-
gress and Executive are an essential in-
gredient in the MBFR [mutual and bal-
anced force reductions] negotiations. We
cannot expect the Soviet Union to nego-
tiate seriously if they believe that by
slowing negotiations they can get troop
reductions at no cost to themselves.
But the issue of national defense goes
beyond issues of foreign policy. It goes
to the heart of the question of our priori-
ties as a Nation. My judgment is that in
today's world this nation cannot afford
less defense. We have in the past tried
to shrug off the burden of defense only to
find that conflict reached us nonetheless.
We paid a tragic price for that unpre-
paredness.
Secretary Schlesinger, Admiral Moorer
and many other military advisers can pro-
vide you with all the necessary details on
the specifics of the programs I have rec-
ommended and the particular reasons
why the cuts the Congress is considering
will be a serious blow to the national in-
terest. While I will leave to them the dis-
cussion of the details, I would like to men-
tion several areas of particular concern:
-A unilateral cut in our NATO troops
would begin a serious unraveling of the
fabric of NATO. It would completely dis-
rupt our MBFR and burden-sharing
negotiations.
---A reduction in military assistance for
South Vietnam and Laos would be un-
wise during this delicate period of transi-
tion to peace. Our request was the mini-
mum funding necessary and I ask your
support in restoring the cuts.
--Failure to develop and produce new
weapons would cripple our efforts to pro-
vide the forces and equipment we will
need for our security five to ten and even
fifteen years into the future. Our poten-
tial adversaries continue to press ahead
with their weapons development pro-
grams. If we fail to do likewise, our na-
tional security could be threatened at
some point in the future.
Severe reductions in authorized man-
power, as proposed in the Senate bill,
would gravely jeopardize our efforts to
maintain adequate force levels for both
present and future needs. Adequate man-
820
