[25] Feb. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
very special ties, and the fact that you, as
an individual, from the time you have
been in public life, have looked not just
inward but have looked outward to
Europe and the rest of the world, means
that your talks will be very helpful to us
in developing, we hope, a common policy
for this era of peace which we trust is now
going to be developed, not only in the
Atlantic but in the Pacific and, we trust,
in the world.
So, we look forward to our 2 days of
talks and we are sure that they will be
constructive in working toward the great
goals we both share of peace and justice
and freedom in the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House, where
Prime Minister Heath was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors.
See also Item 27.
The Prime Minister responded as follows:
Mr. President:
The Foreign Secretary and I are delighted to
be here with you again in Washington and to
have this opportunity of meeting you and your
colleagues.
I would like to thank you for the warmth of
the welcome which you have given to the
Foreign Secretary and myself today. As you
have said, this is the first official visit in your
second term as President, and we deeply ap
preciate the honor which you have done us
and the significance of it.
This visit comes, I think you will agree, at
an auspicious moment after, as you have said,
the signing of the agreements on Vietnam. We,
in Britain, have greatly admired the steadfast-
ness with which you have pursued the objec-
tive of securing peace and the courage with
which you have made the many very difficult
decisions during these past years. We share
with you the hope that the people of Vietnam
will now be able to find and to work out a
future for themselves, a future in peace and,
we hope, more and more in freedom.
Mr. President, no British Prime Minister
coming here to Washington today could be
unmindful of the loss which the United States
has sustained in the recent death of two former
Presidents, Harry S Truman and Lyndon B.
Johnson.
We associate with President Truman's name
the farsighted policies which the administration
pursued on European recovery after World War
II. And I well recall the talks which I had with
Lyndon B. Johnson here in the White House
when I was Leader of the Opposition in 1966.
And so we join you and the American people
in mourning the passing of these two distin-
guished predecessors in your high office.
Mr. President, this is the fifth time that we
have met since you became President. In our
previous talks we have always been able to
talk over a very wide range of world affairs
and to do so with frankness and understanding.
This was true of my visit here in December
1970 and again when you were able to come
to Bermuda just over a year ago And it is
true of the innumerable exchanges which take
place between those representing our two coun-
tries right down the line Once again we shall
have a great deal to talk about, perhaps more
even than ever before.
As you have said, today Britain is now a
member of the European Community. And the
future relations between that enlarged Com-
munity and the United States, good relations
which are vital for the whole future of the
Western World, will figure prominently in our
discussions. Now that we are a member of the
European Community, you will not find our
interest in the wider affairs of the world any
less than it has ever been before. And for my
own part, I am quite confident that the inti-
macy and the frankness of our exchanges on
this occasion will be just as valuable as they
have been in the past.
So. Mr. President, I would like again to
thank you for inviting the Foreign Secretary
and myself and our colleagues here today for
these 2 days of talks, to thank you again for
the warmth of the welcome, and to repeat that
I believe the talks which we are going to have
are going to be of great importance, not only to
our own two countries but to both sides of the
Atlantic and for peace in the free world.
66
