Richard Nixon, 1973
June 25 [186]
to the United States, Press Secretary Ronald
L. Ziegler and TASS General Director L. M.
Zamyatin held three news briefings on the dis-
186
cussions held between United States and Soviet
officials. Transcripts of the news briefings were
released on June 18, 20, and 23.
Statement on Establishing the Federal Property Council.
June 25, 1973
AS our people have gradually pushed
across our frontiers and our changing way
of life has threatened much of America's
natural beauty, we have learned at last
that our land must be treated as a precious
asset.
The Federal Government today bears a
very special responsibility for this resource.
One third of all the land in the country-
more than 760 million acres is now
owned by our Government. Of this
amount, some 56 million acres have been
acquired by the Government by purchase
or donation just to carry on its daily
activities.
Three and one-half years ago, recog-
nizing that we could make more effective
use of this irreplaceable heritage and that
we have both the opportunity and the
need to create more recreational areas, I
ordered a review of all Federal holdings.
Every agency was asked to determine
whether its lands were being well used
and to report its findings to the Adminis-
trator of General Services.
At the same time, I established a Prop-
erty Review Board to review the GSA
reports and to recommend to me how
those properties could be put to better
use. It was my intention that the Board
would serve as a catalyst in this process
and would devote particular attention to
identifying lands for recreational uses.
The results of this initiative have been
gratifying. Growing directly out of the
studies and recommendations was the
Legacy of Parks program, under which
surplus Federal real property has been
made available to State and local govern-
ments for parks and recreation, especially
near urban areas. In the 28 months since
the program was started, 325 properties-
including 36 announced today—have
been turned over for park and recreational
purposes. They cover over 54,000 acres
and have an estimated market value of
about $150 million.
In addition to furthering our environ-
mental and recreational objectives and
our commitment to the sound manage-
ment of our Federal assets, the Legacy
of Parks program is a striking example of
the New Federalism in action. Resources
of the Federal Government are made
available to States and localities for a
broad purpose-providing recreational
opportunities and their local communi-
ties through their representatives decide
how they can best develop those resources
to meet their own recreational needs.
While our progress under the Property
Review Board has taught us that we can
make better use of our Federal lands, it
has also made it clear that in order to
make optimum use of these resources, we
must develop a more coherent set of
policies for the handling of all Federal
properties. In the absence of general
guidelines, a Government agency still
determines the use and disposition of its
619
