[246] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States, in answer to such a ques-
tion, to suggest that we are going to relate
our policy toward Israel, which has to do
with the independence of that country to
which we are dedicated, to what happens
on Arab oil, I think, would be highly in-
appropriate. I will say this, and I will put
it in another context, however. Israel
simply can't wait for the dust to settle and
the Arabs can't wait for the dust to settle
in the Mideast. Both sides are at fault.
Both sides need to start negotiating. That
is our position.
We are not pro-Israel, and we are not
pro-Arab, and we are not any more pro-
Arab because they have oil and Israel
hasn't. We are pro-peace and it is the
interest of the whole area for us to get
those negotiations off dead center. And
that is why we will use our influence with
Israel, and we will use our influence, what
influence we have, with the various Arab
States, and a non-Arab State like Egypt,
to get those negotiations off.
Now, one of the dividends of having a
successful negotiation will be to reduce the
oil pressure.
BIPARTISAN CONCERNS
[17] Mr. terHorst [J. F. terHorst, De-
troit News, North American Newspaper
Alliance].
Q. Sir, you mentioned a while ago Rep-
resentative O'Neill's proposal that the
Democratic leadership of Congress and
the President get together on some biparti-
san areas. Can you suggest some bills or
some measures of vital concern which a
new bipartisanship in his format would
work out?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would suggest,
Mr. terHorst, the ones I mentioned in
my opening statement would all fit in that
category, with the possible exception of
those that I said were in Mr. Laird's par-
ticular responsibility better schools,
better housing, and also the better com-
munities act. Those do involve basic
philosophic differences, and bipartisan-
ship may not be possible, but on the other
hand, holding the budget down so that
we don't have inflation is a bipartisan
concern.
Maintaining a national defense that is
adequate so that the United States is not
in a second position in dealing with the
Soviet Union or any other country in the
world is a bipartisan concern. Seeing to
it that we have adequate energy supplies.
In fact, some of the best conversations I
have had and the best suggestions I have
had in the field of energy have come from
Democrats, Senator Jackson among them.
I think that we should get a bipartisan
policy going with regard to dealing with
the problems of energy, and there could
be others.
PRESIDENTIAL TAPE RECORDINGS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, could I ask you
one more question about the tapes. If you
win the case in the Supreme Court—
THE PRESIDENT. That's the fifth one.
Q.--and establish the right of con-
fidentiality for Presidents, then would you
be willing voluntarily to disclose the tapes
to dispel the doubt about their content?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, again I would
like to respond to that question in a cate-
gorical way, but I shall not, due to the
fact that when the matter, as it is at the
present time, is actually in the appeal
process, White House Counsel advise that
it would not be appropriate to comment
in any way about what is going to hap
pen during that process. You put that
742
