[61] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
WELFARE
With the failure of the past two Con-
gresses to enact my proposals for funda-
mental reform of the Nation's public as-
sistance system, that system remains as
I described it in a message last year—"a
crazy quilt of injustice and contradiction
that has developed in bits and pieces over
the years."
The major existing program, Aid to
Families with Dependent Children
(AFDC), is as inequitable, inefficient, and
inadequate as ever.
-The administration of this program is
unacceptably loose. The latest na-
tional data indicate that in round
numbers, one of every 20 persons on
the AFDC rolls is totally ineligible for
welfare; 3 more are paid more bene-
fits than they are entitled to; and
another is underpaid. About one-
quarter of AFDC recipients, in other
words, are receiving improper pay-
ments.
-Complex program requirements and
administrative red tape at the Fed-
eral and State levels have created
bureaucracies that are difficult to
manage.
-Inconsistent and unclear definitions
of need have diluted resources that
should be targeted on those who need
help most.
-Misguided incentives have dis-
couraged employable persons from
work and induced fathers to leave
home so that their families can qual-
ify for welfare.
After several years of skyrocketing in-
creases, however, outlays for this pro-
gram have begun to level off. This results
from the strong resurgence of our econ-
omy and expansion of the job market,
along with some management improve-
ments in the AFDC program and
strengthened work requirements which
were introduced into the program last
year.
Since the legislative outlook seems to
preclude passage of an overall structural
reform bill in the immediate future, I
have directed that vigorous steps be taken
to strengthen the management of AFDC
through administrative measures and leg-
islative proposals.
Under these reforms, Federal impedi-
ments to efficient State administration of
the current AFDC system will be removed
wherever possible. Changes will be pro-
posed to reduce the complexities of cur-
rent eligibility and payment processes.
Work will continue to be required of all
those who can reasonably be considered
available for employment, while Federal
funds to help welfare recipients acquire
needed job skills will increase.
One thing is certain: the welfare mess
cannot be permitted to continue. A system
which penalizes a person for going to work
and rewards a person for going on welfare
is totally alien to the American tradition
of self-reliance and self-respect. That is
why welfare reform has been and will con-
tinue to be one of our major goals; and
we will work diligently with the Congress
in developing ways to achieve it.
NUTRITION
During the past four years, Federal out-
lays for food assistance have increased
more than three-fold. Food stamp and
food distribution programs for needy fam-
ilies have been extended to virtually every
community in the country. More than 15
million persons are now receiving food
stamps or distributed foods, more than
140
