Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 18 [128]
DEVELOPING OUR DOMESTIC ENERGY
RESOURCES
The effort to increase domestic energy
production in a manner consistent with
our economic, environmental and security
interests should focus on the following
areas:
NATURAL GAS
Natural gas is America's premium fuel.
It is clean-burning and thus has the least
detrimental effect on our environment.
Since 1966, our consumption of nat-
ural gas has increased by over one-third,
so that today natural gas comprises 32
percent of the total energy we consume
from all sources. During this same period,
our proven and available reserves of nat-
ural
gas have decreased by a fifth. Unless
we act responsibly, we will soon encounter
increasing shortages of this vital fuel.
Yet the problem of shortages results
less from inadequate resources than from
ill-conceived regulation. Natural gas is
the fuel most heavily regulated by the
Federal Government-through the Fed-
eral Power Commission. Not only are the
operations of interstate natural gas pipe-
lines regulated, as was originally and
properly intended by the Congress, but
the price of the natural gas supplied to
these pipelines by thousands of independ-
ent producers has also been regulated.
For more than a decade the prices of
natural gas supplied to pipelines under
this extended regulation have been kept
artificially low. As a result, demand has
been artificially stimulated, but the ex-
ploration and development required to
provide new supplies to satisfy this in-
creasing demand have been allowed to
wither. This form of government regula-
tion has contributed heavily to the short-
ages we have experienced, and to the
greater scarcity we now anticipate.
As a result of its low regulated price,
more than 50 percent of our natural gas is
consumed by industrial users and utilities,
many of which might otherwise be using
coal or oil. While homeowners are being
forced to turn away from natural gas and
toward more expensive fuels, unneces-
sarily large quantities of natural gas are
being used by industry.
Furthermore, because prices within
producing States are often higher than the
interstate prices established by the Federal
Power Commission, most newly discov-
ered and newly produced natural gas does
not enter interstate pipelines. Potential
consumers in non-producing States thus
suffer the worst shortages. While the Fed-
eral Power Commission has tried to al-
leviate these problems, the regulatory
framework and attendant judicial con-
straints inhibit the ability of the Commis-
sion to respond adequately.
It is clear that the price paid to pro-
ducers for natural gas in interstate trade
must increase if there is to be the needed
incentive for increasing supply and re-
ducing inefficient usage. Some have sug-
gested additional regulation to provide
new incentives, but we have already seen
the pitfalls in this approach. We must
regulate less, not more. At the same time,
we cannot remove all natural gas regula-
tions without greatly inflating the price
of gas currently in production and gener-
ating windfall profits.
To resolve this issue, I am proposing
that gas from new wells, gas newly-dedi-
cated to interstate markets, and the con-
tinuing production of natural gas from
expired contracts should no longer be sub-
ject to price regulation at the wellhead.
Enactment of this legislation should stimu-
305
