Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 14 [79]
law which states that it is a Federal crime
to travel in interstate commerce to bribe a
witness in a State court proceeding, but it
is not a crime to travel in interstate com-
merce to threaten or intimidate the same
witness, though intimidation might even
take the form of murdering the witness.
The Federal interest is the same in each
case to assist the State in safeguarding
the integrity of its judicial processes. In
such a case, an extension of Federal juris-
diction is clearly warranted and is pro-
vided for under my proposal.
The rationalization of jurisdictional
bases permits greater clarity of drafting,
uniformity of interpretation, and the con-
solidation of numerous statutes presently
applying to basically the same conduct.
For example, title 18 of the criminal
Code as presently drawn, lists some 70
theft offenses-each written in a different
fashion to cover the taking of various
kinds of property in different jurisdic-
tional situations. In the proposed new
Code, these have been reduced to 5 gen-
eral sections. Almost 80 forgery, counter-
feiting, and related offenses have been re-
placed by only 3 sections. Over 50 statutes
involving perjury and false statements
have been reduced to 7 sections. Approxi-
mately 70 arson and property destruction
offenses have been consolidated into 4
offenses.
Similar changes have been made in the
Code's treatment of culpability. Instead
of 79 undefined terms or combinations of
terms presently found in title 18, the Code
uses four clearly defined terms.
Another major innovation reflected in
Part One is a codification of general de-
fenses available to a defendant. This
change permits clarification of areas in
which the law is presently confused and,
for the first time, provides uniform Fed-
eral standards for defense.
The most significant feature of this
chapter is a codification of the "insanity”
defense. At present the test is determined
by the courts and varies across the country.
The standard has become so vague in
some instances that it has led to uncon-
scionable abuse by defendants.
My proposed new formulation would
provide an insanity defense only if the
defendant did not know what he was do-
ing. Under this formulation, which has
considerable support in psychiatric and
legal circles, the only question considered
germane in a murder case, for example,
would be whether the defendant knew
that he was pulling the trigger of a gun.
Questions such as the existence of a mental
disease or defect and whether the defend-
ant requires treatment or deserves im-
prisonment would be reserved for con-
sideration at the time of sentencing.
Part Two of the Code consolidates the
definitions of all Federal felonies, as well
as certain related Federal offenses of a less
serious character. Offenses and, in ap-
propriate instances, specific defenses, are
defined in simple, concise terms, and those
existing provisions found to be obsolete or
unusable have been eliminated-for ex-
ample, operating a pirate ship on behalf
of a "foreign prince," or detaining a
United States carrier pigeon. Loopholes
in existing law have been closed-for ex-
ample, statutes concerning the theft of
union funds, and new offenses have been
created where necessary, as in the case
of leaders of organized crime.
We have not indulged in changes
merely for the sake of changes. Where
existing law has proved satisfactory and
where existing statutory language has re-
195
