Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 10 [253]
Congress to give special attention to them
before the last gavel falls later this
year.
In the spirit of responsible cooperation
which must prevail between the Executive
and the Congress if we are to make gen-
uine progress this fall, I am fully prepared
to work closely with Members of the
Congress in hammering out modifications
to these bills. Already this year I have
met more often with the bipartisan leaders
of the Congress than in any other year of
my Presidency, and I hope to meet even
more frequently with Members of the
Congress during the coming weeks. In
addition, Cabinet members and all other
appropriate members of the Administra-
tion will be fully accessible and available.
There are, of course, certain principles
of vital national concern which cannot be
compromised the need for budgetary
discipline, for a strong national security
posture, and for the preservation of the
requisite powers of the executive branch.
But within these limits I stand ready to
find workable compromises wherever pos-
sible on solutions to our national problems.
The overriding question, however, is
not the degree of compromise which is
reached between the executive branch and
the Congress, nor is it a matter of who
receives the credit. The most important
question concerns the results we achieve
for the American people. We must work
hard and we must work constructively
over the next four months to meet the
country's pressing needs. It is on that basis
that we shall be judged.
THE FIRST GOAL: A BALANCED BUDGET
No issue is of greater concern to the
American public than rising consumer
prices. The battle against inflation must
be our first priority for the remainder of
this year.
The executive branch is already actively
engaged in this fight:
-We have imposed a strong, new set
of economic controls which should help
to bring a reduction in the rate of infla-
tion by the end of this year.
-We have taken a series of measures
to expand food supplies, so that produc-
tion will keep up with growing demands.
The farm bill passed by the Congress and
signed into law last month will make a
significant contribution to this effort.
-Thirdly, the Federal Reserve System
has been working to maintain reasonable
controls on the flow of money within the
economy, which is essential to reducing
inflation.
We are moving in the right direction,
but we must recognize that we can reach
our goal only if we also apply the single
most important weapon in our arsenal:
control of the Federal budget. Every dollar
we cut from the Federal deficit is another
blow against higher prices. And nothing
we could do at this time would be more
effective in beating inflation than to wipe
out the deficit altogether and to balance
the Federal budget.
Eight months ago I submitted to the
Congress a new budget calling for Fed-
eral outlays of $268.7 billion during fiscal
year 1974. Since that time, the Congress
has undertaken a serious and commenda-
ble effort to establish its own mechanism
for controlling overall expenditure levels.
If that effort succeeds, the Congress will
have a much more reliable tool for hold-
ing spending to acceptable totals.
At the same time, the Administration
has been working to increase the efficiency
and thus cut the cost of the Government.
763
