[234] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
White House by demanding payment of
$120,000 as the price of not talking about
other activities, unrelated to Watergate,
in which he had engaged. These allega-
tions were made in general terms, they
were portrayed to me as being based in
part on supposition, and they were largely
unsupported by details or evidence.
These allegations were very troubling.
and they gave a new dimension to the
Watergate matter. They also reinforced
my determination that the full facts must
be made available to the grand jury or to
the Senate committee. If anything illegal
had happened, I wanted it to be dealt
with appropriately according to the law.
If anyone at the White House or high up
in my campaign had been involved in
wrongdoing of any kind. I wanted the
White House to take the lead in making
that known.
When I received this disturbing infor-
mation on March 21, I immediately be-
gan new inquiries into the case and an
examination of the best means to give to
the grand jury or Senate committee what
we then knew and what we might later
learn. On March 21, I arranged to meet
the following day with Messrs. Haldeman,
Ehrlichman, Dean, and Mitchell to dis-
cuss the appropriate method to get the
facts out. On March 23, I sent Mr. Dean
to Camp David, where he was in-
structed to write a complete report on
all that he knew of the entire Watergate
matter. On March 28, I had Mr. Ehrlich-
man call the Attorney General to find out
if he had additional information about
Watergate generally or White House in-
volvement. The Attorney General was
told that I wanted to hear directly from
him and not through any staff people, if
he had any information on White House
involvement or if information of that kind
should come to him. The Attorney Gen-
eral indicated to Mr. Ehrlichman that he
had no such information. When I learned
on March 30 that Mr. Dean had been un-
able to complete his report, I instructed
Mr. Ehrlichman to conduct an independ-
ent inquiry and bring all the facts to me.
On April 14, Mr. Ehrlichman gave me his
findings, and I directed that he report
them to the Attorney General immedi-
ately. On April 15. Attorney General
Kleindienst and Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral Petersen told me of new information
that had been received by the prosecutors.
By that time the fragmentary informa-
tion I had been given on March 21 had
been supplemented in important ways,
particularly by Mr. Ehrlichman's report
to me on April 14, by the information Mr.
Kleindienst and Mr. Petersen gave me on
April 15, and by independent inquiries
I had been making on my own. At that
point, I realized that I would not be able
personally to find out all of the facts and
make them public, and I concluded that
the matter was best handled by the Justice
Department and the grand jury. On
April 17. I announced that new inquiries
were underway, as a result of what I had
learned on March 21 and in my own in-
vestigation since that time. I instructed
all Government employees to cooperate
with the judicial process as it moved ahead
on this matter and expressed my personal
view that no immunity should be given
to any individual who had held a posi-
tion of major importance in this
Administration.
My consistent position from the begin-
ning has been to get out the facts about
Watergate, not to cover them up.
On May 22 I said that at no time did
I authorize any offer of executive clem-
ency for the Watergate defendants, nor
700
