[3] Jan. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
attention to overall policy formation and
direction, I am now taking action to cut
the total personnel of the Executive Office
of the President by well over half, and to
reduce substantially the number of or-
ganizations which now make up the EOP.
Through a combination of Presidential
directives, reorganization plans, and budg-
etary changes, I shall reassign or propose
reassignment of most of the activities cur-
rently carried on by a number of organiza-
tions within the Executive Office of the
President to appropriate line departments
and agencies. Specific changes will be an-
nounced as they are effected.
THE NEED TO DECENTRALIZE
Throughout the middle third of the
20th century, power flowed to the center at
every level of American government. It
was a development which often seemed
beneficial in the short run, indeed one
which crisis rhetoric frequently insisted
was "the only answer;" yet as the decades
stretched out it proved to have seriously
sapped the vitality of our system.
The vigor and independence of State
and local government ebbed as Washing-
ton's power grew. In the Federal Govern-
ment, the President's ability to manage
effectively was increasingly hamstrung,
and his chief lieutenants, the Cabinet Sec-
retaries, were steadily weakened by the
balkanization of the departments and
agencies and the resultant ill-planned
growth of the Executive Office of the
President.
Now the age of centralism in American
government is ending. The beginning of
revenue sharing has turned the tide within
the Federal system. The reorganization
proposals which I have been advocating
for almost 2 years now would do the same
within the executive branch. The meas-
ures I am announcing today will put the
principles of those proposals into practice
everywhere that my administrative au-
thority reaches.
I am confident that these measures will
enhance my ability to deliver between
now and 1977 what the people voted for
in 1972: government that performs what
it promises, and 100 cents worth of public
services for every tax dollar spent. I be-
lieve they will contribute to that "energy
in the executive" which Hamilton called
"a leading character in the definition of
good government."
And as these changes demonstrate their
worth, I hope the Congress will accept
this practical proof and join me in adopt-
ing throughout the executive branch the
same concepts on which I am now pat-
terning my own staff and Executive Office.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing on
the plans for redirecting executive branch
management by John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs
Earlier in the day, the President held a break-
fast meeting with the bipartisan leadership of
the Congress to discuss topics including the
organization of the executive branch.
6
