[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
course, orderly economic behavior,
and effective economic adjustment;
-improved methods for assuring that
those principles are adhered to; and
-sufficient flexibility to allow each na-
tion to operate within agreed stand-
ards in ways best suited to its political
character, its stage of development,
and its economic structure.
The achievement of these objectives
can create a new balance between diverse
national economic needs and a greater
international unity of purpose. Economic
relations can become a source of strength
and harmony among countries rather
than a source of friction.
But these objectives can be achieved
only if nations make a strong commitment
to them. Close and constructive coopera-
tion among the European Community,
Japan, and the United States--the three
pillars of the Free World economy—will
be essential. Other nations, including the
developing countries, Canada, and Aus-
tralia must play a major role. All have an
important stake in an improved economic
system. Our country, for example, will
import increasing amounts of energy
fuels and raw materials and therefore will
have to sell more abroad to pay for them.
But the stakes go beyond the problems of
individual nations. Nations must be de-
termined to channel potential conflict
into constructive competition to
strengthen their mutual prosperity and
the prospects for a more peaceful world
order.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY
In the late 1960's, the monetary system
created at Bretton Woods a quarter of a
century before was beset by crisis. By mid-
1971 it had given rise to serious imbalance
and instability which placed intolerable
pressures on the United States. My deci-
sion of August 15-to suspend dollar
convertibility and to impose a ten percent
surcharge on imports-set the stage for
thoroughgoing reform.
The Smithsonian Agreement of De-
cember 1971 moved toward more realistic
exchange rates. By making both surplus
and deficit nations responsible for balance
of payments adjustment, it had impor-
tant implications for the future. But its
greatest significance was as the essential
prologue to full reappraisal and reform
of the system.
The Agreement was not designed to
resolve all the problems. Heavy specula-
tive pressures developed periodically; the
substantial deficit continued in America's
balance of payments, and many countries
reinforced exchange controls.
Proposals for Reform. Early in 1972 we
sought to establish a new forum to ex-
amine the problem. The members of the
International Monetary Fund established
the Committee of Twenty with repre-
sentatives of both developed and develop-
ing nations for this purpose.
After consultations with other govern-
ments we took advantage of the annual
meeting of the International Monetary
Fund/World Bank in September 1972 to
put forward our views on needed reform
in specific and comprehensive terms.
Of the proposals we put forward at the
September meeting, one in particular-
improvement of the balance of payments
adjustment process has important for-
eign policy implications. Because it deals
with trade, investment, and monetary
flows affecting the lives of people in all
nations, balance of payments adjust-
ment is an extremely sensitive issue.
Relative competitive positions are par-
468
