Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
Atlantic unity in defense and security be
reconciled with the European Commu-
nity's increasingly regional economic
policies?
We have also faced challenges in re-
defining our relationships with the other
North American member of the Atlantic
Alliance-Canada. Our northern neigh-
bor has been reassessing its position in the
world just as we have been establishing a
new view of our own. Frank reappraisals
of our respective interests have brought
some new problems to the fore, particu-
larly in economic relations between the
two countries. When I visited Ottawa in
April 1972, I reaffirmed with Prime Min-
ister Trudeau our common belief that
mature partners must have autonomous,
independent policies and explored with
him how we might work together while
respecting Canada's right to ensure its own
identity and to chart its own economic
course.
A Comprehensive Approach. We thus
face a new situation. There are elements
of economic conflict, and there has been a
lack of direction. Concrete economic is-
sues, not abstract principles, must be ad-
dressed. But if economic issues are con-
fronted in isolation, or from purely
technical perspectives, each party will try
to protect its own narrow commercial in-
terests. The outcome will be a deadlock,
with the prospect of constant conflict.
The overriding task is to develop a
broader political perspective from which
we can address these economic questions,
one that encourages reconciliation of dif-
ferences for the sake of larger goals. Each
partner will have to subordinate a degree
of individual or regional autonomy to the
pursuit of common objectives. Only by
appealing to interests that transcend
regional economic considerations can in-
evitable deadlocks be broken.
We have begun to move toward a com-
prehensive European-American dialogue.
An essential first step was the European
decision on the nature and scope of the
relations with the United States. Last
October, the leaders of the European
Community met to chart their long-term
course. The keynote was sounded by
President Pompidou:
"Our links with this great country, the
world's foremost economic power, with
which eight of our countries are united
within the Atlantic Alliance, are so close
that it would be absurd to conceive of a
Europe constructed in opposition to it.
But the very closeness of these links re-
quires that Europe affirm its individual
personality with regard to the United
States. Western Europe, liberated from
armies thanks to the essential contribution
of American soldiers, reconstructed with
American aid, having looked for its secu-
rity in alliance with America, having
hitherto accepted American currency as
the main element of its monetary reserves,
must not and cannot sever its links with
the United States. But neither must it re-
frain from affirming its existence as a new
reality."
This was an invitation to begin the com-
plex process of redefining our basic part-
nership, a goal we had set in 1969. Accord-
ingly, on October 27, I strongly endorsed
the European Community declaration:
"It is, and has always been my own
deeply held view that progress toward a
unified Europe enhances world peace,
security, and prosperity.
"It is also of the highest importance that
the United States and Europe work closely
together. For this reason I particularly
405
