Appendix B
March
6 The President greeted a bipartisan group of
15 mayors representing the National League
of Cities and the U.S. Conference of Mayors
who were meeting at the White House with
Kenneth R. Cole, Jr., Executive Director of
the Domestic Council, to discuss Federal-
city relationships.
6 The President hosted a private dinner for a
group of business and community leaders.
7 Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met at the White House with the President
and Henry A. Kissinger prior to his de-
parture for meetings in Paris and Moscow.
Earlier, the White House had announced.
that Secretary Shultz would hold discussions
on current international monetary problems
in Paris and would then continue on to
Moscow to discuss trade matters with offi-
cials of the Soviet Union. Following the
visit to the Soviet Union, Secretary Shultz
would consult with several finance ministers
in Europe in preparation for the monetary
reform talks scheduled in Washington by
the Committee of Twenty from March 26
to 28.
7 The President greeted winners of the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars' Voice of Democracy
contest.
7 Rolf Pauls, West German Ambassador to the
United States, paid a farewell call on the
President at the White House.
7 The President hosted a private dinner for a
group of business and community leaders.
8 Senators John L. McClellan and Milton R.
Young, chairman and ranking Republican
member of the Senate Appropriations Com-
mittee, breakfasted with the President at
the White House to discuss the budget.
8 Ghulam Mustafa Khar, Governor of the
Punjab State of Pakistan and special emis-
sary of President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and
Aziz Ahmed, Minister of State for Defense
and Foreign Affairs, met with the President
at the White House.
8 The President greeted freshman Republican
Congressmen in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
March
8 The White House announced that a United
States-Democratic Republic of Vietnam
Joint Economic Commission was estab-
lished and would meet in Paris beginning
March 15, 1973.
9 The President greeted a group of 10 Fed-
eral Regional Council Chairmen at the
White House.
9 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House to discuss domestic matters.
9 Janet J. Johnston, co-chairman of the
Republican National Committee, met with
the President at the White House.
9 The President met with 16 White House
Fellows for 1972-73.
9 Ambassador John N. Irwin II met with the
President at the White House prior to as-
suming his post as United States Ambas-
sador to France.
9 Secretary of State William P. Rogers met
with the President at the White House to
report on the International Conference on
Vietnam held in Paris and to discuss the
agreement signed at the Conference.
12 The President presented the Hank Man-
fredi award to Bureau of Narcotics and Dan-
gerous Drugs Agent Thomas Devine and to
the parents of BNDD Agent Frank Tum-
millo, who was killed in the line of duty in
New York City on October 12, 1972.
13 In a ceremony in the Oval Office at the
White House, the President presented the
1972 Presidential Management Improve-
ment Awards to six individuals and three
Government organizations.
13 The 1973 National Association of Retarded
Children Poster Child, Renee Vincent, age
10, of La Vale, Md., called on the President
at the White House.
15 Miss Debra Ploch, 1973 Maid of Cotton,
called on the President at the White House.
She was accompanied by Representative
James M. Collins of Texas.
15 The President greeted freshman Republican
Representative Donald Young of Alaska at
the White House.
1069
