Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 15 [330]
America's real estate. That is why my
money is in real estate.
The other day when I was riding up
the road, the old 101 to Los Angeles from
San Clemente, I saw a sign on the window
of one very handsome real estate office
saying "1973 is our best year ever. Come
on in and make it better." It occurred to
me that that is the spirit of this group,
and I would like to talk to you at the con-
clusion of your sessions today about 1973,
why it is a good year in many respects
and a great year in some respects, and
why, also, it is a year that is troublesome
in other respects and that causes us con-
cern. Because, as realtors, I know one
thing about you-I have been exposed to
insurance salesmen and to stock salesmen,
but believe me, you have never been ex-
posed to a salesman until a realtor gets at
you.
And the reason realtors are good sales-
men is that you believe in your product.
You believe that real estate is a good in-
vestment. And real estate is not a good
investment unless America is a good in-
vestment. And I want to tell you today
why I think America is the best in-
vestment in the world, a better investment
because of what has happened in 1973.
The year 1973 has seen some major
accomplishments which makes America a
better investment than it was in any of
the years prior to that time, going clear
back to the time that President Eisen-
hower left office in January of 1961, be-
cause the year 1973 saw the end of the
longest war in America's history. It saw
our prisoners of war returning home and,
as one of them said, proud to return on
their feet rather than on their knees.
It was a year which saw that for the
first time in 25 years, no young Americans
are being drafted for the armed services.
We want them to serve, but they will be
volunteers and so young people can plan
their lives their own way and not be
drafted.
Also, on the international front it was a
year when we saw continuing progress in
our relationships with two of the great
powers in the world whose ideologies are
totally different from ours, but who, be-
cause we both exist on this planet together
and have the potential of great power,
must find a way to live together or we
will find ways that we will die together.
And that is why the relationship with
the Soviet Union, with the second summit
held here in Washington, at Camp David,
and concluded in San Clemente, the rela-
tionship with the People's Republic of
China where 800 million people of the
world live, has continued with Dr. Kis-
singer's trip just being completed there,
with meetings with Chou En-lai and Mao
Tse-tung going, as usual, very well and,
in this case, better than the previous meet-
ings that we have had, and they went
very well considering the state of our
relationships.
It has seen also in this year 1973 in the
foreign policy field a very serious crisis
develop in the Mideast, but a crisis which,
after war flared up, has now been re-
solved, at least on a temporary basis. But
this is the difference: We have had truces
in the Mideast before, because this is the
fourth war in the last 25 years, but it has
only been a truce. There has never been
any hope that the truce might be followed
by negotiations which would lead to a
permanent peace.
This war we have ended with a truce
where the United States played an indis-
pensable role, but having played that in-
935
