Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 5 [350]
maintenance and consolidation of inter-
national peace, the development of
coop-
eration among all nations, and the pro-
motion of the norms of international law
in relations among states.
They stressed the importance of achiev-
ing effective measures of disarmament
conducive to the strengthening of interna-
tional peace and security.
They agreed to continue their support
for the achievement of security and co-
operation in Europe, noting that the
Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe and the negotiations on Mu-
tual Reduction of Forces and Armaments
and Associated Measures in Central Eu-
rope should contribute to this end. They
agreed that the process of building Euro-
pean security would produce closer rela-
tions among the participants and make
a positive contribution to world peace.
They further agreed that the development
of good neighborly relations among Bal-
kan countries will contribute to coopera-
tion, security, and relaxation of tensions
in Europe.
Noting that international relations are
in a period of intense change, the two
Presidents welcomed the continuing prog-
ress toward relaxation of tensions and to-
ward an era of negotiation rather than
confrontation. They welcomed the new
opportunities for increasing participation
by all interested states in the resolution, by
negotiation, of controversial problems for
the further improvement of international
relations.
They expressed their satisfaction with
the agreement concerning the reestablish-
ment of peace in Vietnam and their hope
that it will be implemented to contribute
to peace and stability in Indochina.
They expressed their concern with the
recent outbreak of the conflict in the Mid-
dle East and emphasized the importance
they attach to current efforts to achieve
a just and lasting peace. They expressed
themselves in favor of the settlement of
the conflict by peaceful means in the spirit
and on the basis of the Security Council
Resolution of November 22, 1967. They
stressed the need to proceed without delay
to the negotiations called for by the Se-
curity Council Resolution of October 22,
1973 and to the convocation of the peace
conference.
IV
The two Presidents expressed their con-
viction that the continued development
of friendly relations between the United
States of America and the Socialist Re-
public of Romania, based on equality,
mutual respect and due consideration for
their respective interests, serves the cause
of international peace and cooperation.
Stressing the value of personal con-
tacts, they reaffirmed their commitment
to deepen and expand relations between
the two countries by consultations at var-
ious levels as well as through normal dip-
lomatic channels.
Washington, December 5, 1973
RICHARD NIXON,
President of the United States of
America
NICOLAE CEAUSESCU,
President of the Council of State of the
Socialist Republic of Romania
999
