[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
fire agreement-and we made clear to the
Communist side our determination to
secure the fullest possible accounting for
each of our men. As stipulated in the pro-
tocol, a Four Party Joint Military Team is
being maintained to gather information
about the missing in action. We also estab-
lished a Joint Casualty Resolution Center
(JCRC) in Thailand--near the Laos and
Vietnam borders-to search for the miss-
ing. These efforts will continue until we
have exhausted all possible means to find
information on each of our men.
North Vietnam. Dr. Kissinger visited
Hanoi from February 10 to 13, for direct
conversations with Prime Minister Pham
Van Dong and other North Vietnamese
leaders. As stated in the Joint Com-
munique after the visit, the two sides care-
fully reviewed implementation of the
Agreement, problems in Laos and Cam-
bodia, postwar economic reconstruction,
and the International Conference on Viet-
nam that was held shortly afterwards.
They also considered the bilateral rela-
tionship between our two countries and
concrete steps to normalize our relations.
A significant result of this trip was an
agreement to establish a Joint Economic
Commission to develop economic rela-
tions between the United States and the
Democratic Republic of Vietnam. This
Commission began its work in Paris on
March 15, 1973. Its agenda includes not
only economic assistance but the whole
range of economic matters. And it could
become not only a technical group but a
forum for a more constructive dialogue
between our two nations.
The essential message we have for
North Vietnam's leaders, and which was
conveyed during this trip, is as follows.
We do not assume Hanoi will give up
its long-range goals. We do expect it to
pursue those goals without using force.
Hanoi has two basic choices. The first is
to exploit the Vietnam Agreement and
press its objectives in Indochina. In this
case it would continue to infiltrate men
and materiel into South Vietnam, keep
its forces in Laos and Cambodia, and
through pressures or outright attack re-
new its aggression against our friends.
Such a course would endanger the hard
won gains for peace in Indochina. It
would risk revived confrontation with us.
It would, of course, destroy the chances
for a new and constructive bilateral rela-
tionship with the United States, including
economic assistance.
The second course is for North Viet-
nam to pursue its objectives peacefully,
allowing the historical trends of the region
to assert themselves. This would mean
observance of the Vietnam settlement and
the removal of foreign forces on both
sides from Laos and Cambodia. It would
transform years of military conflict in
Indochina into political struggle. It would
enable the United States and the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam to normalize
relations. If Hanoi follows this path, the
United States will abide by whatever the
historical process produces in Indochina.
If North Vietnam chooses the peaceful
option, the United States remains com-
mitted to better relations. We are con-
vinced, as stated in the Joint Communique
at the conclusion of Dr. Kissinger's visit
to Hanoi, that this process would "help
to ensure stable peace in Vietnam and
contribute to the cause of peace in Indo-
china and Southeast Asia."
Indochina Reconstruction. Thus the
basic challenge in Indochina is to move
from two decades of violent struggle to
peaceful evolution. It will not be easy to
make this transition after a generation of
392
