Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
the second stage of SALT began. In this
new phase we are dealing with those new
issues inherent in working out permanent,
rather than temporary, arrangements and
with some of the problems set aside in
SALT I.
There is mutual agreement that per-
manent limitations must meet the basic
security interests of both sides equitably
if they are to endure in an era of great
technological change and in a fluid in-
ternational environment. There obviously
can be no agreement that creates or pre-
serves strategic advantages. But each side
perceives the strategic balance differently
and therefore holds differing concepts of
an equitable framework for a permanent
agreement.
The problem of defining a balance that
establishes and preserves an essential
equivalency in strategic forces is no less
complicated than it was four years ago.
It involves the numerical levels of major
systems, the capabilities of individual
sys-
tems, and the overall potential of the en-
tire strategic arsenal that each side can
develop.
The impact of unconstrained technolog-
ical developments in particular must be
considered. On the one hand, both sides
will want to ensure that their forces can be
modernized. They will want confidence in
the reliability of their forces and their
survivability in foreseeable strategic cir-
cumstances. On the other hand, if com-
petition in technology proceeds without
restraint, forces capable of destroying the
retaliatory forces of the other side could
be developed; or the thrust of technology
could produce such a result without de-
liberate decisions. Competition could in-
exorably intensify to the point that there
could be a high premium on striking first.
Thus a major challenge is to determine
where a balance of capabilities enhances
stability and where it could generate severe
competition for advantage in first strike
capabilities.
Given the different roads we and the
Soviet Union have followed in developing
our respective forces, perfect symmetry
is not possible. To the extent that one side
retains certain technological capacities,
the other side must be conceded similar
rights or some form of compensation in
other areas of technology.
The Soviet Union has deployed a very
large and heavy ICBM. The weight this
missile can deliver to its target is several
times greater than that of our Minuteman
ICBM. The entire Soviet ICBM force,
therefore, has a "throw weight" approxi-
mately four times greater than ours.
On the other hand, the United States
is deploying MIRVS on our Minuteman
ICBM and Poseidon while the Soviet
Union thus far has not begun such a
deployment.
Once MIRVs are developed and tested,
however, the greater throw weight ca-
pacity of Soviet ICBMs will allow the
Soviet Union to deploy a larger number of
MIRVs than the United States.
These are the types of extremely com-
plicated issues that arise in defining an es-
sential equivalency. Moreover, verification
of limitations on technological capabilities
will be extraordinarily more difficult than
monitoring limitations on the numbers of
weapons.
Nevertheless, there are a number of fac-
tors which give us reason to hope for con-
tinuing progress:
-The initial agreement provides a
foundation of confidence.
-For the past four years both sides
have engaged in a dialogue on stra-
tegic matters that was inconceivable
497
