Richard Nixon, 1973
June 19 [179]
179 Statement About Signing Three Bills Providing for Health
Care, Economic Development in Rural Areas, and
Airport Construction. June 19, 1973
LAST week in Pekin, Ill., I called for a
new spirit of "responsible partnership"
between the executive and legislative
branches-a partnership of give and take,
one in which "we can accommodate our
positions without abandoning
principles."
our
Yesterday I signed into law three au-
thorization bills which reflect that sense
of partnership.
These bills touch upon a wide range of
domestic concerns, including health care,
economic development in rural areas, and
airport construction. Each measure differs
somewhat from my own request, but each
one also represents an effort by the Con-
gress to strike a reasonable compromise
with the Administration.
While the authorization levels are
higher than I believe desirable, they will
not damage our overall fiscal position if
the Congress now follows my budget rec-
ommendations in the appropriations
process.
So long as the Congress follows a re-
sponsible course in the passage of future
spending bills, I will cooperate in the
spirit of partnership.
But as we go forward, let there be no
mistake about one fundamental point:
If bills come to my desk which are ir-
responsible and would break open the
Federal budget, forcing more inflation
upon the American people, I will veto
them. That has been my stand in the past,
and it will continue to be my position in
the future.
There is no issue of greater concern to
the Nation today than the rising cost of
the family budget, and there is no better
way for the Government to conquer this
problem than to keep a lid on the Federal
budget. There can be no compromising of
that principle.
EXTENSION OF HEALTH PROGRAMS
The first of these bills, S. 1136, is the
"Health Programs Extension Act of 1973."
It revises and extends a dozen health
programs through June 1974.
The Administration and the Congress
agree that several of these efforts should
be continued, including formula and proj-
ect grants for health services, compre-
hensive health planning, health services
research and development, and health
statistics activities.
We disagree, however, on other pro-
grams. Among these are hospital construc-
tion subsidies, new long-term mental
health center grants, regional medical
programs, and subsidies to allied health
and public health training. I believe that
these programs spend public monies less
effectively than they should be spent, and
in my 1974 budget I called for their
elimination. While S. 1136 continues these
programs, it does so for only 1 year instead
of the usual 3-5 year extension period. It
also calls for a comprehensive review of
the health authorities in this bill during
the coming year.
I continue to believe that it is essential
599
