Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 31 [101]
long as I am in this office, to maintain
the strength of the United States until
others bring their strength down too.
When I leave this office, I want to leave
it with respect for the President of the
United States, whoever he is, for the Office
of the Presidency, and respect for the
strength of the United States undimin-
ished, because it is that strength that is the
world's best guardian of peace and
freedom.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
10 a.m. in the State Dining Room at the White
House where he greeted approximately 140
State legislators who were members of the In-
tergovernmental Relations Committee of the
National Legislative Conference. The commit-
tee was the primary Federal-State policymaking
unit of the conference, an affiliate of the Coun-
cil of State Governments.
The legislators were attending a White
House briefing on domestic policy by Adminis-
tration officials.
ΙΟΙ Remarks on Presenting the
Freedom to John Ford.
Mr. and Mrs. Ford, all of our distin-
guished guests tonight:
As most of you know, I have made many
speeches in my life. I have never had a
harder act to follow.
It was, however, not an act, because
everything we have heard tonight was
from the heart. And as I, with you, en-
joyed this program, I thought that Mr.
Ford would want me to say that tonight
we honor a man. We think of him as a
great man, one of the geniuses of his pro-
fession. But I think he would want me to
say, speaking for all of the American
people, we honor a great profession, all
of the people in the motion picture pro-
fession. Thank you very much.
As we saw some of the excerpts from
the great Ford motion pictures, we
thought of what motion pictures have
meant to us in this country and in the
world. It is very easy to generalize with
regard to what a motion picture or any
kind of entertainment should be, any kind
of theater. I would put it very simply this
way:
It must be everything. Sometimes there
is a need for us to laugh and sometimes
Presidential Medal of
March 31, 1973
there is a need for us to cry. Sometimes we
must be happy, and sometimes we must
be sad. Sometimes we need to be inspired;
other times we need to escape. And always
we need to be reminded of the greatness
of our Nation. We need also to be re-
minded of the fact that we can be some-
thing bigger than ourselves. And so on
the screen we see the great actors, the great
stories, all made possible by great directors
and producers.
I am an unabashed movie fan. I think
I have seen virtually all of the 140 movies,
and I am grateful to all of you in Holly-
wood in this great profession for making
us first in the world in motion pictures
and conveying through American motion
pictures to the world what I believe is a
complete picture of America and a good
picture of America, because that is what
you have done.
I now come to my part in the program
and a tribute to Mr. Ford. I have noted
tonight that he has been characterized
in several different ways. Some have called
him "Boss," and others have called him
"Jack," and most have called him
"Pappy." But there was one term that I
245
