[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
that would be in contravention of what
the circuit court of appeals has ordered.
PRESIDENTIAL STRESS
[13.] Mr. terHorst [J. F. terHorst, De-
troit News].
Q. Mr. President, Harry Truman used
to talk about the heat in the kitchen——
THE PRESIDENT. I know what he
meant.
Q. and a lot of people have been
wondering how you are bearing up emo-
tionally under the stress of recent events.
Can you discuss that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, those who saw
me during the Middle East crisis thought
I bore up rather well, and, Mr. terHorst,
I have a quality which is-I guess I must
have inherited it from my Midwestern
mother and father-which is that the
tougher it gets, the cooler I get. Of course,
it isn't pleasant to get criticism. Some of
it is justified, of course. It isn't pleasant to
find your honesty questioned. It isn't
pleasant to find, for example, that, speak-
ing of my friend Mr. Rebozo, that despite
the fact that those who printed it, and
those who said it, knew it was untrue-
said that he had a million-dollar trust fund
for me that he was handling-it was nev-
ertheless put on one of the networks,
knowing it was untrue. It isn't pleasant,
for example, to hear or read that a million
dollars in campaign funds went into my
San Clemente property and, even after we
had a complete audit, to have it repeated.
Those are things which, of course, do
tend to get under the skin of the man who
holds this office. But as far as I am con-
cerned, I have learned to expect it. It has
been my lot throughout my political life,
and I suppose because I have been
through so much, that may be one of the
reasons that when I have to face an in-
ternational crisis, I have what it takes.
WATERGATE INFLUENCE ON MIDDLE EAST
CRISIS
[14] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
ask you a question about the Mideast. To
what extent do you think your Watergate
troubles influenced Soviet thinking about
your ability to respond in the Mideast, and
did your Watergate problems convince
you that the United States needed a strong
response in the Mideast to convince other
nations that you have not been weakened?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have noted
speculation to the effect that the Water-
gate problems may have led the Soviet
Union to miscalculate. I tend to disagree
with that, however.
I think Mr. Brezhnev probably can't
quite understand how the President of the
United States wouldn't be able to handle
the Watergate problems. He would be
able to handle it all right, if he had them.
[Laughter] But I think what happens is
that what Mr. Brezhnev does understand
is the power of the United States. What
he does know is the President of the
United States.
What he also knows is that the Presi-
dent of the United States, when he was
under unmerciful assault at the time of
Cambodia at the time of May 8, when I
ordered the bombing and the mining of
North Vietnam, at the time of Decem-
ber 18, still went ahead and did what he
thought was right; the fact that Mr.
Brezhnev knew that regardless of the
pressures at home, regardless of what peo-
904
