Appendix B
June
19 The President and the General Secretary
went aboard the Sequoia for a cruise on the
Potomac River. Following the cruise, they
went to Camp David, Md.
21 Following 2 days of meetings at Camp
David, Md., President Nixon and General
Secretary Brezhnev helicoptered to the
White House. During the flight, they viewed
the Gettysburg battlefield and the Gettys-
burg farm of Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
in Pennsylvania.
21 The President and the General Secretary
signed two documents in a ceremony in the
East Room at the White House. They were
an agreement on the peaceful uses of atomic
energy and the "Basic Principles of Nego-
tiations on the Further Limitation of Strate-
gic Offensive Arms."
22 Members of the bipartisan Congressional
leadership met with the President at the
White House to discuss the U.S.-Soviet
agreement on the prevention of nuclear
war.
22 President Nixon and General Secretary
Brezhnev signed the agreement on the
prevention of nuclear war in a ceremony in
the East Room at the White House.
23 The President hosted a dinner at his resi-
dence in San Clemente for members of the
Soviet and American delegations who were
participating in the summit meeting.
24 In a ceremony at the President's residence
in San Clemente, he and General Secretary
Brezhnev signed the joint communique is-
sued at the conclusion of their meetings.
Following the ceremony, they greeted the
Skylab i astronauts, Capt. Charles Conrad,
Jr., USN, Comdr. Joseph P. Kerwin, USN,
and Comdr. Paul J. Weitz, USN. The
President then accompanied General Secre-
tary Brezhnev to El Toro Marine Corps Air
Station. The General Secretary departed
for Camp David, Md., where he spent the
night prior to leaving the United States the
following day.
June
28 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, United States
Ambassador to India and former Counsellor
to the President, met with the President and
Henry A. Kissinger at the Western White
House.
30 The permanent representatives of 15 na-
tions on the Council of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization met with the President
at the Western White House.
30 Members of a Congressional delegation of
four Senators and four Representatives,
headed by Senator Warren G. Magnuson
and Representative Thomas E. Morgan,
met with the President at the Western
White House prior to departing for a 2-
week visit to the People's Republic of China
at the invitation of the Chinese People's
Institute for Foreign Affairs.
July
I Brig. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, Military As-
sistant to the President, telephoned Israeli
Ambassador Yitzhak Rabin to express the
President's condolences following the slay-
ing of Col. Yosef Alon, Deputy Military
Attaché of the Israeli Embassy.
2 The President participated in the swearing-
in ceremony at the Western White House
for James R. Schlesinger as Secretary of
Defense.
5 Lt. Comdr. T. Stephen Todd, newly ap-
pointed Naval Aide to the President, met
with the President at the Western White
House.
5 Gov. Daniel J. Evans of Washington, chair-
man of the National Governors Conference,
met with the President at the Western
White House to discuss Federal-State
relations.
6 Huang Chen, Chief of the Liaison Office of
the People's Republic of China, met with
the President at the Western White House.
6 Dr. Michael DeBakey, heart surgeon from
Houston, Tex., met with the President at
the Western White House to report on his
recent visit to the Soviet Union.
1077
