Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 19 [264]
pects for potential homebuyers to obtain
mortgages over the longer term.
-Some of these proposals reflect my
conviction that the housing needs of lower
income families require a different ap-
proach than we have taken in the past.
-Still other actions are designed to
meet other special needs and to update
and improve current Federal programs
which have been working.
The measures I suggest today can bring
us closer to a long-established goal. As I
indicated in my message last March, this
Administration will not waiver in its com-
mitment to the objective of the Housing
Act of 1949: "a decent home and a suit-
able living environment for every Ameri-
can family." While our Nation has made
tremendous strides toward that objective
in the quarter-century since it was first
enunciated, those very strides have carried
us into new terrain, presenting new prob-
lems and new opportunities. The nature
of the challenge has been changing—and
our response must change accordingly.
A PROUD RECORD
The housing record of recent decades
should be a source of pride for all Ameri-
cans. For example, the proportion of our
people who live in substandard housing
dropped from 43 percent in 1940 to only
7 percent in 1970. During the same pe-
riod, the proportion of Americans living
in houses with more than one person per
room dropped from 20 percent to 8 per-
cent and the proportion of our housing
which is considered "dilapidated" fell
from over 18 percent to less than 5 per-
cent.
To be sure, these indicators are impre-
cise and we need to improve the ways
we collect housing data. But all of these
measures, however crude, point to an in-
escapable conclusion: very substantial
progress has been made in the housing
field and the benefits have been shared by
Americans of all races and economic
groups in all regions of the country.
In recent years, housing production in
America has reached unprecedented lev-
els. The average number of housing starts
in the last twelve months was more than
double the average for the previous two
decades and we expect the next twelve
months to be another excellent year for
housing.
The ability of our economy to provide
vastly expanded housing has been one of
the strongest indications of its fundamen-
tal vitality. Our people have been able to
match their growing desire for housing
with growing purchasing power. Our
housing industry has been able to expand
its production and update its product.
And our credit institutions have been able
to finance this massive wave of construc-
tion in a way which has enabled a broad
cross-section of Americans to participate
in its benefits.
The state of America's housing will
continue to depend on the state of Ameri-
ca's economy more than on any other
factor. Specific policies aimed at housing
can help. But as our housing study con-
cludes the forces which will do the most
to shape the future of housing in America
will be the forces of the marketplace:
families with sufficient real income and
sufficient confidence to create an effective
demand for better housing on the one
hand, and builders and credit institutions
able to respond to that demand on the
other.
But even as good housing has become
a reality for most Americans, it is clear
that certain important problems still ex-
801
