Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 9 [4]
4 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Trade Agreements Program for 1971.
January 9, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 402 (a) of
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, I trans-
mit herewith the Sixteenth Annual
Report of the President on the Trade
Agreements Program. This report covers
developments during the twelve months
ending December 31, 1971.
That year marked an historic turning
point in international economic relations.
Deepening crises in the spring and sum-
mer of 1971 dramatized the obsolescence
and inequity of the rules and mechanisms
developed at the end of World War II.
Against this background, the Administra-
tion announced in August a series of meas-
ures designed in part to prevent further
damage to the United States economic
position. More fundamentally, actions
were taken to open the way for reform-
ing the world trade and monetary systems
through multilateral cooperation.
Concurrently with monetary consulta-
tions which led to the Smithsonian Agree-
ments in December of 1971, the United
States opened bilateral discussions with
our major trading partners. These dis-
cussions yielded valuable reductions dur-
ing 1972 in a number of foreign barriers
to our exports. Even more significant,
however, was the conclusion reached
among the United States, the European
Community and Japan that permanent
solutions could only be found through
broad-based negotiations. The result of
the discussions was an agreement to work
actively for the opening in 1973 of a new
round of comprehensive negotiations in-
volving all elements of trade policy.
The nations of the world now have the
opportunity to open a new era of inter-
national relations characterized by nego-
tiation rather than confrontation across
the whole range of foreign policy issues.
Our key objectives in reform of the in-
ternational trading system are to reduce
existing tariff and nontariff barriers af-
fecting agricultural as well as industrial
products, to establish new rules for the
fairer conduct of world trade, and to open
new opportunities for the poorer nations
to earn the foreign exchange required
for their development. Such far-reaching
goals can be achieved only within a frame-
work which provides for the equitable
sharing of benefits and responsibilities
and which includes a safeguard system
that allows time for industries adversely
affected by foreign competition to adjust
to shifts in trade patterns.
Proposals which will enable the United
States to negotiate effectively are now un-
der intensive study in the executive
branch. In the coming months, the Ad-
ministration will be working closely with
members of the Congress to determine
how we can best meet the challenges and
seize the opportunities which lie ahead.
I am confident we will be able to es-
tablish a new international economic
framework within which trade can ex-
pand on an equitable basis for all partic-
ipants—contributing to peace and pros-
perity for all nations of the world.
The White House,
January 9, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
7
