[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
everyone who tries to balance a family
budget in America; to set in motion new
and better ways of ensuring progress to-
ward a better life for all Americans.
When I think of this office of what it
means—I think of all the things that I
want to accomplish for this Nation, of all
the things I want to accomplish for you.
On Christmas Eve, during my terrible
personal ordeal of the renewed bombing
of North Vietnam, which after 12 years
of war finally helped to bring America
peace with honor, I sat down just before
midnight. I wrote out some of my goals
for my second term as President.
Let me read them to you.
"To make it possible for our children,
and for our children's children, to live in
a world of peace.
"To make this country be more than
ever a land of opportunity of equal op-
portunity, full opportunity for every
American.
"To provide jobs for all who can work,
and generous help for those who cannot
work.
"To establish a climate of decency and
civility, in which each person respects the
feelings and the dignity and the God-
given rights of his neighbor.
"To make this a land in which each
person can dare to dream, can live his
dreams-not in fear, but in hope-proud
of his community, proud of his country,
proud of what America has meant to him-
self and to the world."
These are great goals. I believe we can,
we must work for them. We can achieve
them. But we cannot achieve these goals
unless we dedicate ourselves to another
goal.
We must maintain the integrity of the
White House, and that integrity must be
real, not transparent. There can be no
whitewash at the White House.
We must reform our political process-
ridding it not only of the violations of the
law but also of the ugly mob violence and
other inexcusable campaign tactics that
have been too often practiced and too
readily accepted in the past, including
those that may have been a response by
one side to the excesses or expected ex-
cesses of the other side. Two wrongs do
not make a right.
I have been in public life for more than
a quarter of a century. Like any other
calling, politics has good people and bad
people. And let me tell you, the great
majority in politics-in the Congress, in
the Federal Government, in the State
government are good people. I know
that it can be very easy, under the inten-
sive pressures of a campaign, for even
well-intentioned people to fall into shady
tactics to rationalize this on the grounds
that what is at stake is of such importance
to the Nation that the end justifies the
means. And both of our great parties have
been guilty of such tactics in the past.
In recent years, however, the campaign
excesses that have occurred on all sides
have provided a sobering demonstration
of how far this false doctrine can take us.
The lesson is clear: America, in its politi-
cal campaigns, must not again fall into
the trap of letting the end, however great
that end is, justify the means.
I urge the leaders of both political
parties, I urge citizens, all of you, every-
where, to join in working toward a new set
of standards, new rules and procedures to
ensure that future elections will be as
nearly free of such abuses as they possibly
can be made. This is my goal. I ask you
to join in making it America's goal.
332
