[215] July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
over your country since yesterday. What we see
is something staggering, wonderful, and really
something to be copied, where it can be copied.
You have been blessed with so many wonders
of nature.
The progress we are making is really to
benefit the maximum majority of our people.
We are following a policy of participation to
the extreme limits. I could even say that, for
instance, farmers would have an interest in
seeing industries running well, and vice versa,
industries will be interested in the welfare of
farmers because they will have a greater pur-
chasing power. People from down in the vil
lages to the big cities will have, in various and
different ways, the means to express themselves
freely.
We are trying to develop our country with
the maximum speed. We are giving our people
the maximum possibilities of expression. But
also, we want to make it very clear once more
that we will keep not only our past glories and
histories but our future with vigilance. We are
not one of those countries who will surrender,
because what we will surrender is too much.
It is too great.
All this, I hope, will create in the region some
atmosphere of stability, of people, instead of
quarreling, trying to understand each other,
to cooperate, to fight against the still existing
evils of, maybe, poverty, illiteracy, not enough
medical care. But we shall do this all only if
our honor is preserved intact, because life for us
without independence, honor, and dignity has
no meaning.
I know that you understand these words
better than anyone else, Mr. President, because
this is what you have shown all during your
life. And the dramatic success you had in your
foreign policies is a source of inspiration, be-
cause, as you have said, the time of confron-
tation should be replaced by negotiation. Ne-
gotiation in good faith could have excellent
results. And we hope you have success in that
field, and we shall do the same. But for our-
selves, at least, I add, we have got to be vig-
ilant, we have got to be firm, we have got to be
patient, but for all this, we have got to be
strong morally in running our society, in our
social justice, but also in our national strength
to defend ourselves.
Thank you again for your warm welcome,
Mr. President, and I can only reiterate once
more that I wish you and your government
and your people and your country the best that
you can wish for.
216 Toasts of the President and the Shah of Iran.
July 24, 1973
Your Imperial Majesty:
This is the third time that we have had
the honor of welcoming you in this room
since I have been President of the United
States, but this time we are especially
honored because we welcome not only you
but one of the most glamorous and gra-
cious ladies in the world, Her Majesty, the
Empress of Iran, and we are so happy
that she accompanied you on this trip,
and you are both doubly welcome.
As we think of those meetings that we
have had previously, and as we look back
over the years, we also realize how much
has changed in the world since we first
met 20 years ago and also how much has
changed even in the brief period of time
since our meetings here in this house.
This is the first time, for example, that
we find that no longer is the United States
at war in Vietnam, since your visits to the
United States. For that, we are thankful.
We also take note of the fact that as
we look back over the span of 20 years,
as you were saying earlier in our conver-
sation, that despite all of the problems
that exist in the world, there is perhaps
now a better chance for building a struc-
ture of peace for all people in the world
than at any time since the end of World
662
