[323] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
323 Address to the Nation About Policies To Deal With
the Energy Shortages. November 7, 1973
Good evening:
I want to talk to you tonight about a
serious national problem, a problem we
must all face together in the months and
years ahead.
As America has grown and prospered
in recent years, our energy demands have
begun to exceed available supplies. In
recent months, we have taken many ac-
tions to increase supplies and to reduce
consumption. But even with our best
efforts, we knew that a period of tem-
porary shortages was inevitable.
Unfortunately, our expectations for this
winter have now been sharply altered by
the recent conflict in the Middle East.
Because of that war, most of the Middle
Eastern oil producers have reduced overall
production and cut off their shipments
of oil to the United States. By the end of
this month, more than 2 million barrels a
day of oil we expected to import into the
United States will no longer be available.
We must, therefore, face up to a very
stark fact: We are heading toward the
most acute shortages of energy since World
War II. Our supply of petroleum this
winter will be at least 10 percent short of
our anticipated demands, and it could fall
short by as much as 17 percent.
Now, even before war broke out in the
Middle East, these prospective shortages
were the subject of intensive discussions
among members of my Administration,
leaders of the Congress, Governors,
mayors, and other groups. From these dis-
cussions has emerged a broad agreement
that we, as a nation, must now set upon
a new course.
In the short run, this course means that
we must use less energy-that means less
heat, less electricity, less gasoline. In the
long run, it means that we must develop
new sources of energy which will give us
the capacity to meet our needs without
relying on any foreign nation.
The immediate shortage will affect the
lives of each and every one of us. In our
factories, our cars, our homes, our offices,
we will have to use less fuel than we are
accustomed to using. Some school and fac-
tory schedules may be realigned, and some
jet airplane flights will be canceled.
This does not mean that we are going
to run out of gasoline or that air travel will
stop or that we will freeze in our homes or
offices anyplace in America. The fuel
crisis need not mean genuine suffering for
any American. But it will require some
sacrifice by all Americans.
We must be sure that our most vital
needs are met first-and that our least
important activities are the first to be cut
back. And we must be sure that while the
fat from our economy is being trimmed.
the muscle is not seriously damaged.
To help us carry out that responsibility.
I am tonight announcing the following
steps:
First, I am directing that industries and
utilities which use coal-which is our most
abundant resource-be prevented from
converting from coal to oil. Efforts will
also be made to convert powerplants from
the use of oil to the use of coal.
Second, we are allocating reduced
quantities of fuel for aircraft. Now, this is
going to lead to a cutback of more than 10
percent of the number of flights and some
rescheduling of arrival and departure
times.
Third, there will be reductions of ap-
916
