[141] May 3
Public Papers of the President:
war victims. Finally, the country faces
other heavy financial drains as it recon-
structs the many destroyed towns, repairs
the country's transportation and irriga-
tion systems, and brings back into produc-
tion large arable regions abandoned dur-
ing twenty years of fighting.
None of the country's major economic
tasks can be accomplished without sub-
stantial economic assistance. With such
aid, none of these problems is insuperable.
South Vietnam has the natural and
human resources to be economically inde-
pendent and viable. What is needed is
time for these resources, diverted or idled
by the war, to be put back to productive
use.
The Republic of South Vietnam now
seeks the economic counterpart to Viet-
namization. As we helped them take over
their own defense in conflict, we will help
them now become economically self-sus-
taining in peace.
These were the principles I expressed
to President Thieu when we met at San
Clemente a few weeks ago. His visit to
the United States symbolized both our
common struggle in past years and our
common endeavors in the years to come.
As we said in our joint communique:
"... both Presidents agreed that through
the harsh experience of a tragic war and
the sacrifices of their two peoples a close
and constructive relationship between the
American and the South Vietnamese peo-
ple has been developed and strengthened.
They affirmed their full confidence that
this association would be preserved as the
foundation of an honorable and lasting
peace in Southeast Asia."
The International Conference. From
February 26, 1973, to March 2, 1973, the
International Conference on Vietnam
met in Paris. Twelve nations-the four
parties to the Agreement, the four ICCS
countries, and the permanent members
of the United Nations Security Council-
plus the Secretary General of the United
Nations, attended. The Final Act signed
on March 3, 1973, endorsed the Vietnam
Agreement; called for its strict observance
by the four parties; pledged respect for
the Accord by members of the Confer-
ence; urged all other countries to do so as
well; set up procedures for reporting vio-
lations of the Agreement and reconven-
ing of the Conference; and called for
countries to respect the independence,
sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity,
and neutrality of Cambodia and Laos, as
stipulated in the Agreement.
A single meeting lasting several days
cannot guarantee the peace. But the
gathering and the statements of the na-
tions involved underlined the reality that
all countries, not just those directly con-
cerned, have a stake in peace in Indo-
china. We expect the nations that signed
the Act of the Conference to live up to
their obligations. We will take their per-
formance into account in the conduct of
our bilateral relations.
FUTURE TASKS
Achieving an end to the war was ex-
ceptionally difficult, but keeping the peace
will be no less challenging. It involves not
just Vietnam but all of Indochina, and
not just the Indochinese countries but
outside nations as well. The following are
the major tasks:
-Strengthening the peace in Vietnam.
-Implementing the agreement on
Laos.
-Achieving a ceasefire and beginning
negotiations on Cambodia.
-Ensuring restraint toward the region
by outside powers.
394
