[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
mentation can occur in stages, and it
should not be precluded that some issues
and disputes could be resolved on a prior-
ity basis. But a comprehensive settlement
must cover all the parties and all the major
issues.
The issues are formidable, interlinked,
and laden with emotion. The solutions
cannot be found in general principles
alone, but must be embodied in concrete
negotiated arrangements. The parties will
not be tricked into compromise positions
by artful procedures. But there is room for
accommodation and an overwhelming
necessity to seek it.
THE INTERESTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
THE MAJOR POWERS
Too often in recent history, Middle
East turbulence has been compounded by
the involvement of outside powers. This is
an ever-present danger. Our efforts with
other major powers to move from an era
of confrontation to an era of negotiation
have addressed this problem directly.
The nations of the Middle East have
the right to determine their own relation-
ships with the major powers. They will
do so according to their own judgment of
their own requirements. The United
States has no desire to block or interfere
with political ties freely developed be-
tween Middle East countries and other
major nations in the world. We have our
close ties with Israel, which we value, and
we also have a strong interest in preserv-
ing and developing our ties with the Arab
world. Other powers have the same right.
But attempts at exclusion or predomi-
nance are an invitation to conflict, either
local or global.
The first dimension of the problem is,
of course, the direct involvement of the
great powers in the Arab-Israeli conflict.
A significant Soviet presence and sub-
stantial Soviet military aid continue in the
area. The Soviet Union signed a friend-
ship treaty with Iraq in April 1972. New
shipments of Soviet military equipment
have now been concentrated in Syria,
Iraq, and the People's Democratic Repub-
lic of Yemen. The significant factor is
whether the Soviet presence is paralleled
by a Soviet interest in promoting peaceful
solutions. The major powers have a con-
tinuing obligation to refrain from steps
which will raise again the danger of their
direct engagement in military conflict.
The danger of immediate U.S.-Soviet
confrontation, a source of grave concern
in 1970 and 1971, is at the moment re-
duced. The Moscow Summit and the
agreement on the Basic Principles of our
relations contributed to this, not only for
the present but also for the longer term.
Neither side at the summit had any illu-
sions that we could resolve the Arab-
Israeli conflict, but there was agreement
that we could keep it from becoming a
source of conflict between us. The United
States has no interest in excluding the
Soviet Union from contributing to a
Middle East settlement or from playing a
significant role there. In fact, at the sum-
mit we agreed that we each had an obliga-
tion to help promote a settlement in ac-
cordance with Resolution 242.
The responsibilities and interests of the
major powers in the Middle East go be-
yond the Arab-Israeli dispute. There are
extensive political and economic ties be-
tween the countries of the region and the
outside world. Here, too, there is a world
interest in not allowing competitive in-
terests to interfere with a stable evolution.
The United States considers it a prin-
cipal objective to rebuild its political re-
450
