Richard Nixon, 1973
May 18 [159]
among the less developed countries.
It is in the national interest of the
United States to ratify the new amend-
ment to Article 61 with a view to making
more effective the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations.
I therefore request the consent of the
Senate to ratification by the United States
159
of the amendment set forth in Resolution
2847 (XXVI).
The White House,
May 18, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the amendment and accom-
panying papers are printed in Senate Executive
L (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
Veto of a Bill Requiring Senate Confirmation of the
Director and Deputy Director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
To the Senate of the United States:
I am today returning without my ap-
proval S. 518, a bill which would require
Senate confirmation of those who serve
as Director and Deputy Director of the
Office of Management and Budget.
This legislation would require the
forced removal by an unconstitutional
procedure of two officers now serving in
the executive branch. This step would
- be a grave violation of the fundamental
doctrine of separation of powers. In view
of my responsibilities, it is my firm duty
to veto this bill.
Under present law, the Director and
Deputy Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget are appointed by the
President and serve at his pleasure. S. 518
would abolish these two positions effective
thirty days after enactment and then pro-
vide for their immediate reestablishment.
If the officers now lawfully occupying
these Office of Management and Budget
positions were to continue to serve, they
would have to be reappointed by the
President, subject to the advice and con-
sent of the Senate.
The constitutional principle involved in
this removal is not equivocal; it is deeply
rooted in our system of government. The
May 18, 1973
President has the power and authority to
remove, or retain, executive officers ap-
pointed by the President. The Supreme
Court of the United States in a leading
decision, Myers v. United States, 272 U.S.
52, 122 (1926), has held that this author-
ity is incident to the power of appointment
and is an exclusive power that cannot be
infringed upon by the Congress.
I do not dispute Congressional author-
ity to abolish an office or to specify ap-
propriate standards by which the officers
may serve. When an office is abolished,
the tenure of the incumbent in that office
ends. But the power of the Congress to
terminate an office cannot be used as a
back-door method of circumventing the
President's power to remove. With its
abolition and immediate re-creation of
two offices, S. 518 is a device-in effect
and perhaps in intent-to accomplish
Congressional removal of the incumbents
who lawfully hold those offices.
Disapproval of this legislation is also
required because of the nature of the
positions it would subject to Senate con-
firmation. For over 50 years the Office of
Management and Budget and its prede-
cessor agency, the Bureau of the Budget,
has been headed by a Director ap-
539
