[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Principles for Success. The coming
trade negotiations will have the best
chance of achieving their major objec-
tives if they are based on sound political
and economic principles:
-Negotiations should seek maximum
feasible reliance on market forces as
a means of guiding trade. Such ar-
rangements will allow us to sell the
goods we produce most competitively
and to buy goods others produce
most competitively, increasing the
earnings of workers and farmers and
giving the consumer more for his
money. This is the most efficient way
of using each nation's resources; it
avoids the vicious circle of protec-
tion and counterprotection. The
temptation to dwell on the "cost" of
particular concessions must be
avoided in favor of the overall ob-
jective of lessening trade barriers and
improving the world trading sys-
tem. The benefits that will accrue to
all nations not only economically
but also in their broader relation-
ships should be the guiding
objective.
-Negotiations should significantly re-
duce barriers in all trade sectors.
Only all-inclusive negotiations per-
mit a full weighing of broader na-
tional interests of participating
countries. From our point of view,
it is especially important that the
negotiations reduce barriers in cer-
tain areas of agricultural trade.
Other nations have areas in which
they want similar results. To pay less
attention to one nation's priorities
will make that nation less inclined to
meet the priority needs of others.
Prospects for the Future. Over the past
year this Administration has stressed the
importance of creating a more open and
equitable trading order. We have worked
to get other nations to pledge full co-
operation in this effort. We do not expect
the coming negotiations to solve all trade
problems, but they can successfully
launch us toward that goal. Last Octo-
ber's declaration by leaders of the Euro-
pean Community and similar statements
by Japanese leaders demonstrated their
dedication to this effort. Other nations
are similarly committed. But we must
seize the moment, or the momentum that
has developed could be lost.
I recently sent the Congress my pro-
posed Trade Reform Act of 1973. This
legislation would give the President
authority to negotiate a system that will
increase world trade, give the United
States an opportunity to share fairly in
that increase, and insure that trade be-
comes a source of stability and coopera-
tion among nations. Meanwhile we are
dealing with individual trade problems
using, where available, the procedures of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade. Effective action on such matters
could clear up some existing differences
and improve the climate for broader
negotiations. We look to other nations
to work with us in forthcoming negotia-
tions in a test of joint statesmanship to
bring about a world trading order which
serves the needs of all.
THE DEVELOPING NATIONS
Despite a record of significant accom-
plishment-including an average annual
increase in economic growth of more than
5-5 percent in the last decade, the success
of the Green Revolution, and rapid ad-
474
