Richard Nixon, 1973
June 29 [190]
and developing improved combustion
systems. The remainder of the $100 mil-
lion will be for research and development
projects on advanced energy conversion
systems, environmental control, geother-
mal steam, conservation, and gas-cooled
nuclear reactors. While it is essential that
we maintain the present budget ceiling
for fiscal year 1974, these vital programs
must and can be funded within that
ceiling.
Second, I am directing the Chairman
of the Atomic Energy Commission to un-
dertake an immediate review of Federal
and private energy research and develop-
ment activities, under the general direc-
tion of the Energy Policy Office, and to
recommend an integrated energy research
and development program for the Nation.
This program should encourage and
actively involve industry in cooperative
efforts to develop and demonstrate new
technologies that will permit better use
of our energy resources. I am also direct-
ing the Chairman, in consultation with
the Department of the Interior and other
agencies, to recommend by September 1
of this year specific projects to which the
additional $100 million would be allocated
during fiscal year 1974. By December 1
of this year, I am asking for her recom-
mendations for energy research and
development programs which should be
included in my fiscal year 1975 budget.
Third, I am establishing an Energy
Research and Development Advisory
Council reporting to the Energy Policy
Office, to be composed of leading experts
in various areas of energy research and
development from outside the Govern-
ment.
I feel that these steps will greatly im-
prove and expand our current energy
research and development effort and will
ensure the development of technologies
vital to meeting our future energy needs.
CONSERVATION
THE FEDERAL EFFORT
In my energy message of April 18, I
announced preliminary steps to conserve
America's fuel supplies. I said at that time
that while energy conservation is a na-
tional necessity, conservation efforts could
be undertaken on a voluntary basis. I still
believe this.
However, public persuasion alone is not
sufficient to the challenge confronting us.
The Federal Government is the largest
consumer of energy in the country, and
as such, it has its own unique role to play
in reducing energy consumption and thus
setting an example for all consumers.
Effective today, I am therefore order-
ing the Federal Government to achieve a
7 percent reduction in its anticipated
energy consumption over the next 12
months.
I have directed the heads of all Cabi-
net departments and other Federal agen-
cies to report by July 31 on the specific
steps they will take to meet this target.
Secretary Morton will be responsible
for monitoring agency efforts and report-
ing their progress to me.
These conservation measures are to be
designed to ensure that no vital services
are impaired nor the proper functioning
of these departments and agencies cur-
tailed. Exceptions will be permitted only
in unique circumstances, such as the pro-
gram of uranium enrichment at the AEC
where a substantial reduction in energy
consumption would have a detrimental
effect on our efforts to provide new forms
of energy.
627
