[190] June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
would be transferred to a new Energy
Research and Development Administra-
tion. It would also assume the respon-
sibilities of the Forest Service and certain
water resources activities of the Soil Con-
servation Service from the Department of
Agriculture: the planning and funding
of the civil functions of the Army Corps
of Engineers; the duties of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
of the Department of Commerce; the
uranium and thorium assessment func-
tions of the Atomic Energy Commission;
the functions of the interagency Water
Resources Council; and gas pipeline safety
functions of the Department of Transpor-
tation.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ADMINISTRATION
I am further proposing to the Congress
that we create an Energy Research and
Development Administration.
The new administration would have
central responsibility for the planning,
management, and conduct of the Govern-
ment's energy research and development
and for working with industry so that
promising new technologies can be devel-
oped and put promptly to work. The new
administration would be organized to give
significant new emphasis to fossil fuels and
potential new forms of energy, while also
assuring continued progress in developing
nuclear power.
In order to create the new administra-
tion, the present functions of the Atomic
Energy Commission, except those pertain-
ing to licensing and related regulatory
responsibilities, would be transferred to it,
as would most of the energy research and
development programs of the Department
of Interior. The scientific and technolog-
ical resources of the AEC should provide
a solid foundation for building a well-
conceived and well-executed effort.
Under my proposal, the five-member
organization of the AEC would be re-
tained to provide direction for a separate
and renamed Nuclear Energy Commis-
sion which would carry on the important
licensing and regulatory activities now
within the AEC. In addition, I have asked
that a comprehensive study be under-
taken, in full consultation with the Con-
gress, to determine the best way to
organize all energy-related regulatory
activities of the Government.
RESEARCH AND Development
While we must rely on conventional
forms of fuel to meet our immediate
energy needs, it is clear that the answer to
our long-term needs lies in developing
new forms of energy.
With this necessity in mind, I am taking
three steps immediately to enlarge our
Federal energy research and development
efforts.
First, I am initiating a Federal energy
research and development effort of $10
billion over a 5-year period, beginning in
fiscal year 1975. To give impetus to this
drive, I am directing that an additional
$100 million in fiscal year 1974 be devoted
to the acceleration of certain existing
projects and the initiation of new projects
in a number of critical research and devel-
opment areas. At least one-half of the
funding for the new initiatives for this
coming fiscal year will be devoted to coal
research and development with emphasis
on producing clean liquid fuels from coal,
improving mining techniques to increase
coal mining safety and productivity, ac-
celerating our coal gasification program,
626
