Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 8 [73]
recreational centers. Now we must deal
even more aggressively with community
development challenges in transportation
by building on the strong foundations we
have laid.
Nothing can do more to lift the face of
our cities, and the spirit of our city dwell-
ers, than truly adequate systems of modern
transportation. With the best highway
system in the world, and with 75 percent
of our people owning and operating au-
tomobiles, we have more transportation
assets per capita than any other people on
earth. Yet the commuter who uses a two-
ton vehicle to transport only himself to
and from work each day is not making the
most efficient use of our transportation
system and is himself contributing to
our transportation and environmental
problems.
Good public transportation is essential
not only to assure adequate transportation
for all citizens, but to forward the common
goal of less congested, cleaner and safer
communities. As I pointed out a few weeks
ago in my message on the environment
and natural resources, effective mass tran-
sit systems that relieve urban congestion
will also reduce pollution and the waste
of our limited energy resources.
As we build such systems, we must be
aware of the two special challenges in
coordinating the needs of the inner city
and the suburb and in alleviating potential
disruptions which new transportation sys-
tems can bring to neighborhood life.
To further these efforts I again continue
to urge Congress to permit a portion of
the Highway Trust Fund to be used in a
more flexible fashion, thus allowing mass
transit capital investments where commu-
nities so desire.
I recommend that the Congress au-
thorize the expenditure by State and local
governments of $3.65 billion over the next
three years from the Highway Trust Fund
for urban transportation needs, including
capital improvements for bus and rapid
rail systems. I also recommend continuing
the rural highway program at the $1 bil-
lion a year level, and providing ample re-
sources to advance the Interstate system
as it approaches its 1980 funding comple-
tion date. This legislation can meet old
needs while at the same time addressing
new ones.
Some communities now feel unduly ob-
ligated to spend Federal monies on con-
troversial Interstate highway segments in
urban areas. I urge the Congress to allow
States and localities to transfer such funds
to the construction of other Federal-aid
highways and mass transit capital im-
provements. In this way, we can help re-
solve controversies which have slowed
work on a number of Interstate links in
urban areas.
It is very important to recognize that
this proposal does not represent an arbi-
trary Federal shift of funds from high-
ways to transit. What it does stress is the
right of local governments to choose the
best solutions for their urban transporta-
tion problems.
This year, in a companion measure to
our Federal Highway Bill, I am also pro-
posing that funding for mass transit cap-
ital grants be increased by $3 billion,
bringing the obligational authority for the
mass transit program to $6.1 billion. This
provision would maintain a forward look-
ing mass transit program through at least
1977. I am also asking the Congress to
amend the Urban Mass Transportation
Assistance Act, increasing the Federal
share for urban mass transit capital grant
177
