[312] Oct. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
312 The President's News Conference of
October 26, 1973
THE SITUATION IN THE MIDDLE EAST
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, before going to your questions, I
have a statement with regard to the Mid-
east which I think will anticipate some of
the questions, because this will update the
information which is breaking rather fast
in that area, as you know, for the past 2
days.
The cease-fire is holding. There have
been some violations, but generally speak-
ing it can be said that it is holding at this
time. As you know, as a result of the U.N.
resolution which was agreed to yesterday
by a vote of 14 to o, a peacekeeping force
will go to the Mideast, and this force,
however, will not include any forces from
the major powers, including, of course,
the United States and the Soviet Union.
The question, however, has arisen as
to whether observers from major powers
could go to the Mideast. My up-to-the-
minute report on that, and I just talked
to Dr. Kissinger 5 minutes before coming
down, is this: We will send observers to
the Mideast if requested by the Secretary
General of the United Nations, and we
have reason to expect that we will receive
such a request.
With regard to the peacekeeping force,
I think it is important for all of you ladies
and gentlemen, and particularly for those
listening on radio and television, to know
why the United States has insisted that
major powers not be part of the peace-
keeping force and that major powers not
introduce military forces into the Mideast.
A very significant and potentially explo-
sive crisis developed on Wednesday of
this week. We obtained information which
led us to believe that the Soviet Union
was planning to send a very substantial
force into the Mideast, a military force.
When I received that information, I
ordered, shortly after midnight on Thurs-
day morning, an alert for all American
forces around the world. This was a pre-
cautionary alert. The purpose of that was
to indicate to the Soviet Union that we
could not accept any unilateral move on
their part to move military forces into the
Mideast. At the same time, in the early
morning hours, I also proceeded on the
diplomatic front. In a message to Mr.
Brezhnev an urgent message-I indi-
cated to him our reasoning, and I urged
that we not proceed along that course
and that, instead, we join in the United
Nations in supporting a resolution which
would exclude any major powers from
participating in a peacekeeping force.
As a result of that communication and
the return that I received from Mr. Brezh-
nev-we had several exchanges, I should
say we reached the conclusion that we
would jointly support the resolution which
was adopted in the United Nations.
We now come, of course, to the critical
time in terms of the future of the Mid-
east. And here, the outlook is far more
hopeful than what we have been through
this past week. I think I could safely say
that the chances for not just a cease-fire-
which we presently have and which, of
course, we have had in the Mideast for
some time-but the outlook for a perma-
nent peace is the best that it has been in
20 years.
The reason for this is that the two
896
