Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 5 [246]
President says will not restore it, and what
you ladies and gentlemen say will cer-
tainly not restore it.
Confidentiality once destroyed cannot, in
my opinion, be restored.
CONTENT OF PRESIDENTIAL TAPE
RECORDINGS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, to follow
up on
the tapes question, earlier you have told
us that your reasons are based on princi-
ple-separation of powers, executive
privilege, things of this sort. Can you
assure us that the tapes do not reflect un-
favorably on your Watergate position,
that there is nothing in the tapes that
would reflect unfavorably?
THE PRESIDENT. There is nothing
whatever. As a matter of fact, the only
time I listened to the tapes, to certain
tapes-and I didn't listen to all of them,
of course-was on June 4. There is noth-
ing whatever in the tapes that is incon-
sistent with the statement that I made on
May 22 or of the statement that I made
to you ladies and gentlemen in answer to
several questions-rather searching ques-
tions I might say, and very polite ques-
tions 2 weeks ago, for the most part—and
finally, nothing that differs whatever from
the statement that I made on the 15th of
August. That is not my concern.
My concern is the one that I have ex-
pressed, and it just does not cover tapes,
it covers the appearance of a President
before a Congressional committee, which
Mr. Truman very properly turned down
in 1953, although some of us at that time
thought he should have appeared. This
was after he had left the Presidency, but
it had to do with matters while he was
President. It covers papers of the Presi-
dent written for him and communications
with him, and it covers conversations with
the President that are recorded on tape.
MINIMUM WAGE BILL
[15.] Q. Mr. President, do you intend
to veto a minimum wage bill, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes-with very great
regret. My Secretary of Labor, Mr. Bren-
nan, has urged me to sign it. As a team-
player he, however, recognizes some of the
arguments that I have made for not sign-
ing it. What it has to do is not my dedi-
cation to the minimum wage; I have al-
ways voted for it in the past, and I have
signed several bills in this Administration,
at least two. The difficulty is that the
minimum wage bill which is presently be-
fore me on my desk would raise the mini-
mum wage by 38 percent. It would deny
employment opportunities to unskilled
and younger workers who at present are
in the highest numbers and the highest
percentage of unemployment; it would
increase unemployment. And it would
give an enormous boost to inflation.
Therefore, I am going to ask the Congress
in my veto message to write a new bill, to
send one down that will not be inflation-
ary and that will not cost jobs for those
who need jobs among the unskilled and
the younger workers.
ARAB OIL
[16.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to
check the Arab oil pressure, if I may,
again. Is it possible that the threat of limit-
ing the supply of oil would cause a mod-
eration in U.S. support of Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that that ques-
tion is one that has been understandably
speculated about a great deal in the press,
but obviously for the President of the
741
