Richard Nixon, 1973
[27]
Feb. 1 I
ister and his associates for goals that go
deep into our national history, ideals
which we share together, ideals which we
basically inherited together. And I am
sure that this visit will be one that, as we
have completed an historic year in the
field of foreign policy-a trip to Peking,
a trip to Moscow, the end of a long and
difficult war in Vietnam-that this marks
a watershed where we move now to the
works of peace. And we move in that area
of the world that is indispensable to true
peace and progress and freedom in the
world, the whole Atlantic community of
which the Prime Minister is one of the
truly great leaders.
I know we can honor him most by rais-
ing our glasses to Her Majesty, the Queen.
The Queen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:55 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Item 25.
Prime Minister Heath responded as follows:
Thank you, Mr. President, for the way in
which you have so happily and so wittily pro-
posed the health of the Queen and associated
my colleagues and myself with it.
I recall on the last occasion which I dined
here, just before Christmas in 1970-the first
time I came here as Prime Minister-that I
made what I thought was rather a lighthearted
speech. It was a Christmas atmosphere, and,
as tonight, I was enjoying myself enormously.
And I thought this microphone here was some-
thing to do with some sort of private recording
or other you had, and it was only after the
whole thing was over that I learned that this
goes down beneath this room, to some nether
region, where the denizens of the deep carry out
some sort of existence-the press and the radio
commentators and the social columnists and
so on.
And so I then resolved if ever again I should
be invited to address you in this room, I would
make a solemn declaration of policy of some
kind or other. I wasn't quite clear what.
I am therefore rather relieved to hear you
in such lighthearted form tonight and to fill
the press once again, I might be allowed to
follow your example.
First of all, I must thank you for inviting
here tonight the 110 most distinguished people
in the United States. It gives me the opportu-
nity tomorrow, and the day after, of everybody
I am meeting saying, "Well, at least you must
be 111th, if not rather lower than that."
But as always, you have provided us with
the most enjoyable hospitality and the most
delightful company, and for that we would
like to thank you.
But, of course, it is always a pleasure to
come here and to dine with you and your wife
in company like this. And my colleagues and I
are very pleased to be back in Washington and
to have the opportunity of having talks with
you.
Tonight you have proposed the health of the
Queen as Head of State. Perhaps I may, as a
simple politician, also pay tribute to you as
a superb politician on a great election victory,
which all of us, who are politicians, certainly
envy. And that is as far as we are likly to get.
Then, if I may, you have remarked this
being a great year-1972-in the field of for-
eign affairs, and that is undeniably true in every
respect from the point of view of the United
States and I believe also from the point of view
of Britain, in that on the first of January it
was crowned with our entry into the European
Community. But, it is also, as we have seen,
being crowned with the end of the war in Viet-
nam. And, of course, there are so many aspects
which occur to us who live outside the United
States in this matter, but perhaps tonight I
might just be allowed, as a Prime Minister,
to refer to one thing, and that is just to express
a realization of how great the burdens are which
have been lifted from your shoulders and that
of your family, by the agreement which has
been secured.
It means so much for America; it means so
much for Southeast Asia; it means so much for
all your friends and for your allies, particularly
in the way in which it is being carried out.
But I think tonight, above all, one feels such
an enormous burden must be lifted from your
shoulders and from all of those who work with
you, and to us this also is a great relief, because
we know the sort of weight of responsibility
69
