[345] Dec. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
greatness of the American military serv-
ice, and particularly the greatness of the
Navy, is symbolized in this ceremony to-
day, because this man, who is controver-
sial, this man, who comes up with unor-
thodox ideas, did not become submerged
by the bureaucracy, because once genius
is submerged by bureaucracy, a nation is
doomed to mediocrity.
Thanks to Admiral Rickover, as far as
our Navy is concerned, apart from the
number of ships, but from the standpoint
of technology, it is the first in the world
and will continue to be, because his genius
was not submerged by the huge bureauc-
racy that could so often have exactly
that effect.
So, I congratulate you, Admiral, and
now we will have the ceremony.
[At this point, Secretary of the Navy John W.
Warner read the commission of appointment.
The President then resumed speaking.]
Now I have to sign it.
Here is the certificate for the wall, and
there is the pen. It is not a very good pen,
but you will probably develop a better
one.
The Admiral has something he would
like to say.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House.
Admiral Rickover's remarks, released with
the President's remarks, are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 1385).
346 Remarks of Welcome to President Nicolae Ceausescu
December 4, 1973
of Romania.
Mr. President, Mrs. Ceauşescu, and all of
our distinguished guests:
Mr. President, it was over 3 years ago
that I had the honor of being the first
American President to visit your country
and when I had the honor to receive you
here in Washington as the first President
of Romania to visit our Nation's Capital.
In these past 3 years, we have seen a
very great improvement in the relations
between our two countries, improvement
that is indicated by the amount of trade
that we have between our countries, the
amount of exchange, and in other areas
which we think are particularly important
in the economic and political areas.
What is also very significant, however,
is that in those 3 years we have seen a
great change in the world in which we
live, a change that you and I first discussed
in 1967 when I visited your capital, Bu-
charest, as a private citizen. It was then
that we talked of the necessity for a bridge
between East and West. And since these
past 3 years, we have seen not only the
visits I have referred to but a visit to the
People's Republic of China, to the Soviet
Union, and the development of new re-
lationships between the United States and
nations in the Socialist part of the world,
but new relationships between Romania
and nations in the non-Socialist part of
the world.
It is as we look at the world today
that we recognize how those relationships
came about, how two countries so very
far apart geographically-one much larg-
er than the other in terms of population,
but each with a proud history-how two
countries with different philosophies of
government, nevertheless in the field of
foreign policy had common objectives,
and that was to seek good relations with
all nations, regardless of what their phil-
988
