Richard Nixon, 1973
24 [216]
July 24
War II. And this is a chance that all of
us world leaders must not allow to slip
by.
This has been the subject of our talks
today. And I can only say, in speaking to
this very distinguished group of your
friends, friends of Iran-and everyone in
this room and those listening to us on
this recording are friends of your coun-
try-I can say to them that as we think
of the peace of the world, that Your
Majesty plays a very central role in terms
of keeping that peace and of building it.
For example, when we think of where
Iran is, its place in history, going back
2,500 years, its place geographically,
where it is the bridge between Europe and
Asia, where it is the opening to the Indian
Ocean and South Asia, and also to the
Mideast, when we think also of the very
strategic place that Iran occupies in that
critical area of the world which many
believe is potentially the most explosive
part, the whole area of the Mideast and
the Indian Ocean, I can only say that
those who want peace, as you want it
and as I want it and as all of us in this
room want it, those of us who believe in
peace, we are fortunate that Your Majesty
occupies the place of leadership that you
occupy today.
For the 20 years that I have known you,
Your Majesty, you have worked for the
progress of your own people with remark-
able results, and you have also worked
for peace and stability in not only your
part of the world but in all the world.
And looking to the future, we know that
your leadership will be critical in deter-
mining that we can find a way to avoid
any kind of eruption which could lead to
breaking the peace in that part of the
world, which all of us look upon today
as potentially dangerous.
Having spoken of these very serious
subjects, may I say on a very personal
note that Mrs. Nixon and I recall our
visit to your country in 1953, to Tehran,
and how graciously you received us, and
then again in 1967, when I was there
alone, and then, of course, again last year,
just after our visit to the Soviet Union.
We have a very special place in our
hearts for the people of Iran and a very
special place for you-a special place for
you, first, as a courageous leader of your
own people, as one who has worked for
progress for the people of Iran, your peo-
ple, and also as a world statesman who
has contributed so much in the past and,
we know, will contribute so much in the
future to building that structure of peace
which is so essential for all of us to enjoy.
For these and many other reasons that
people in this room will share, I know that
all of you will want to join me in the
toast that I will propose to His Imperial
Majesty, the Shahanshah, and to Her
Majesty, the Empress of Iran..
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
The Shah of Iran responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, distinguished
guests:
Each time you speak, Mr. President, you
shower upon me, the Empress, our people, and
our country so many warm words that with your
natural eloquence, it makes us, and me, feel
difficult to answer you, and the only way of
answering is just simply saying, thank you.
It is true that our association has been of a
very long standing, starting back in 1953. That
is exactly 20 years ago. If we look back at all
the events that have taken place in these 20
years, I think that the conclusion that we can
draw is that the world is in a better shape,
is in a better condition. Prospects for peace are
greater than ever before.
I remember that in your speeches, sometimes
in the communication that we had together,
you started by saying the time of confrontation
663
