Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 5 [3]
mental lines in a way that makes coherent
policy formation and effective manage-
ment extremely difficult. A second major
problem is that the creation of several new
departments and numerous other agencies
and offices over the last 40 years has re-
sulted in more officials reporting directly
to the President than any one man can
work with regularly on a personal basis.
This tangle must be resolved in a way
that will make the advice and recom-
mendations of all these officials available
to the President for his use in forming
policy and carrying out operations.
Bureaucratic bottlenecks must be cleared
to facilitate the flow of information and
advice within the structure of the execu-
tive branch. More effective means must
be devised for conveying policy guidance
from the President to all operating execu-
tives and for making sure that guidance
is followed.
The fundamental responsibility and
prerogative for reorganizing the operating
departments and agencies rests with the
people's elected legislators. The President
cannot relieve them of it; but the Presi-
dent can and should do everything within
his power to apply on a smaller scale, at
the staff levels closest to him, those or-
ganizational principles which he asks the
Congress to apply on a giant scale across
the whole Federal establishment.
Though the actual integration of frag-
mented departmental operations must
wait on Congressional action, the broaden-
ing of policy perspectives on the part of
top managers and advisers can be
achieved at once. Similarly, we can and
will begin now to realize, at least within
the Executive Office of the President, the
increased efficiency and economy which
thinned-out organization charts and
leaner personnel rolls would bring to the
whole executive branch under full-scale
reorganization.
I am therefore today taking the first of
a series of steps aimed at increasing the
management effectiveness of both the
Cabinet and the White House Staff, by
reordering the timeworn and, in many
cases, obsolete relationships among top
staff and line officials to the full extent
of my legal authority to do so.
NEW CABINET AND STAFF RELATIONSHIPS
As far as personalities are concerned,
the plans of most key members of the
White House Staff have already been an-
nounced. Though I regret the departure
of a number of individuals who rendered
outstanding service during the first term,
I am pleased to be entering the new term
with a team of men and women of the
high caliber represented by Anne Arm-
strong, H. R. Haldeman, John Ehrlich-
man, Henry Kissinger, Roy Ash, George
Shultz, Peter Flanigan, Bill Timmons,
and their many capable colleagues.
From a managerial standpoint, the
nucleus of this staff will be five Assistants
to the President. They will work imme-
diately under me, and at my direction,
to integrate and unify policies and opera-
tions throughout the executive branch of
the Government, and to oversee all of the
activities for which the President is re-
sponsible. They will be charged with
ensuring that full information, candid
analysis, and a complete range of recom-
mendations and options flow continuously
into the Presidential decisionmaking proc-
ess from all of the executives on my
Administration team.
These five Assistants, with their areas of
responsibility and authority, are: admin-
istration of the White House Office, Mr.
3
