Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 29 [21]
1972 alone increased these benefits by
$10.5 billion, or almost 30% over 1971
benefits.
Beginning on January 1, 1974, under
the terms of legislation passed last year,
the Federal Government is scheduled to
assume responsibility for providing a basic
assistance payment for the aged, blind,
and disabled. While this would require
that we add a very large number of Fed-
eral employees to the Social Security Ad-
ministration, I have ordered this increase
held to an absolute minimum, and I will
urge the Governors to seek ways of elimi-
nating an equivalent number of positions
in their States so that the overall size of
government will not grow.
The 1974 budget for income mainte-
nance programs will emphasize:
-intensified efforts to eliminate waste-
ful and inefficient management of
welfare programs; and
-further improvement in the welfare
of the aging.
The legislation that established General
Revenue Sharing also set a long-needed
ceiling on Federal outlays for social serv-
ices. In 1969, Federal outlays for these
services were less than $400 million. By
1972, States had discovered that this ill-
defined program could be used to finance
most public services and they were plan-
ning to make claim on about $5 billion
in Federal funds.
This runaway, open-ended program
was out of control. The $2.5 billion statu-
tory limit imposed on the program, about
seven times the 1969 level, will restore a
measure of control. We are now empha-
sizing efforts to assure that this massive
increase in funding is used effectively to
meet the real needs of public assistance
recipients for useful social services.
EDUCATION AND MANPOWER TRAIN-
ING.-Outlays in the 1974 budget for edu-
cation and manpower, including those for
veterans, will be $12 billion. The 1974
program is based upon a reevaluation of
the Federal Government's role in these
areas. The primary responsibility for most
of these activities, other than those for
veterans, rests with State and local gov-
ernments. The proper Federal role is pri-
marily that of helping State and local
governments finance their own activities,
while conducting directly those few pro-
grams that can be done efficiently and ef-
fectively only by the Federal Government.
The 1974 budget supports such a role
for the Federal Government. It provides
for:
-creation of education and manpower
revenue sharing programs to give
State and local governments greater
power in allocating resources within
these vital areas;
-proposed legislation that would pro-
vide an income tax credit for tuition
paid to nonpublic elementary and
secondary schools;
-full funding for Basic Education Op-
portunity grants to provide assistance
for college students;
-continued emphasis on training dis-
advantaged veterans;
-an increase in the work incentive
program to help welfare recipients
get jobs; and
-phasedown of the temporary Emer-
gency Employment Assistance pro-
gram consistent with the increase in
new jobs in the private sector.
HEALTH.-My strategy for health in the
1970's stresses a new Federal role and
basic program reforms to assure that eco-
nomical, medically appropriate health
43
