[276] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the benefit of our countries and for the benefit
of other peoples. And, sir, we welcome very
much this opportunity to share, to cooperate,
and indeed, in the case of our skilled people,
retain their skills in our service as well as in
the service of the people.
I don't want to say any more except what a
great honor it has been to be received here,
the opportunity to talk with you, to discuss
the matters that are so important to the South
Pacific and to Southeast Asia at the present
time. And I want to remark that 20 years is a
long time. We have changed a lot in 20 years.
The fish are bigger and the horses a little
faster, and the country has changed and
developed.
And I want to take this opportunity of say-
ing that the President of the United States
will always be a welcome visitor to New Zea-
land. And if the President of the United States
brings the graceful First Lady with him, then,
sir, you will be doubly welcome.
And I know that there are some things you
must attend to that do not permit endless
travels, but I hope you will consider an invita-
tion to the President of the United States that
remains open for exercise at his convenience.
Sir, thank you very much for the reception,
thank you very much for the cordiality with
which I and my party have been received. We
do hope as a continuant to this brief visit, with
the understanding we have achieved, that it
will be possible to go on and develop the
pursuit of peace and prosperity for all
people.
Ladies and gentlemen, can I ask you to join
me in a toast to the President of the United
States of America.
To the President.
277 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the Federal Ocean Program.
To the Congress of the United States:
The past decade has been a productive
period in our Nation's effort to better
understand and utilize our marine re-
sources. The early 1960's saw the estab-
lishment of a firm foundation for our Na-
tion's oceanographic research programs.
Building on this research base in the late
1960's and early 1970's, we began for-
mulating policies and carrying out plans
to derive practical benefits from our ocean
activities. New marine-related institu-
tions were developed, the importance of
marine sciences to the activities of ex-
isting institutions was recognized, and
their efforts were expanded. While recog-
nizing the ongoing importance of basic
research, I believe that this emphasis on
practical benefits must also be carried for-
ward in the years ahead.
September 28, 1973
OCEAN INDUSTRIES
We have been particularly concerned
of late with the challenge of relieving our
dependence on marine imports and at the
same time, providing new products and
services for export. Our fishing industry
has been a special focus of concern. At
present, we import approximately 70 per-
cent of our fish products, in spite of the
fact that some of the world's most fertile
fisheries lie directly off our coasts. These
imports contribute a billion dollars to our
foreign trade deficit. To help protect our
domestic fishing industry, I have recom-
mended legislation which would permit
U.S. regulation of foreign fishing off our
coasts to the fullest extent authorized by
international agreements and would per-
mit Federal regulation of domestic fisher-
832
