[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
progress that has been made as well as the
profound problems that beg for early
solution.
Economic growth in Latin America as
a whole continued at a healthy pace last
year, possibly exceeding the 6.3 percent
rate achieved in 1971. On the other side
of the ledger, the area's high rate of popu-
lation increase-nearly three percent over-
all-added millions of new mouths to
feed and cut per capita income growth to
less than four percent. Nevertheless, this
was still well above the 2.5 percent set
as a goal for the hemisphere in the early
1960's.
The most impressive economic growth
was achieved in the largest country of the
area, Brazil, where the GNP is estimated
to be more than 10 percent above the
1971 level. Mexico's economy advanced
substantially, with exports reaching $1.8
billion last year, up almost 23 percent over
1971. Argentina's trade also grew after
a disastrous trade deficit in 1971. Colom-
bia cut its trade deficit in half and ex-
ports were at record high levels. Venezuela
enjoyed its usual healthy trade surplus.
In most of the countries of the hemis-
phere, however, inflation continued to
eat away at the fruits of economic growth.
Some governments were willing to take
the stern financial and economic measures
needed to bring it under control. Those
that did not or that were guided by
political rather than economic motives-
watched prices and wages spiral upward
and living standards decline. Once-pros-
perous Chile saw its inflation rate reach
an estimated 180 percent, accompanied
by shortages of food and consumer goods.
Foreign trade, an essential ingredient
of economic development, enjoyed a
healthy expansion in Latin America as a
whole. In 1972, Latin American exports
to the United States rose to $6.2 billion,
18 percent more than in 1971. Trade with
Europe and Asia also expanded. Over the
past two years, Latin America's foreign
exchange reserves have increased by more
than $2 billion, to $8.9 billion by the
end of 1972.
The United States remains determined
to improve our own trading relations with
Latin America because we recognize that
growing trade is good for all concerned.
As Latin American economies develop,
they become an increasingly important
market for U.S. goods--for everything
from wheat to tractors to computers. And
a steadily expanding U.S. economy can
absorb a growing volume of Latin Ameri-
ca's products, not only of raw materials
but increasingly of component parts, semi-
processed goods, and finished manufac-
tured products. To encourage this trade,
we have introduced legislation to provide
preferential access to the U.S. market for
products of developing countries. Surely
this most prosperous of all nations should
do no less in extending the hand of co-
operation to our neighbors in this hemi-
sphere and to others in the developing
world.
Meanwhile, approaching worldwide
trade negotiations place our bilateral and
regional trading problems in the Western
Hemisphere in a larger context. Our initi-
atives in pressing for these new negotia-
tions received welcome support from most
of our Latin American trading partners.
Members of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, at their meetings in
Geneva in late 1972, paid considerable
attention to the concerns of developing
countries. To deal with these and other
matters, the members organized a Pre-
paratory Committee to develop proce-
dures for the coming negotiations. Mem-
438
