Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 22 [89]
the interest of patent owners and from the
standpoint of effective government ad-
ministration of its patent functions that
the United States become a party to the
Agreement so that it may participate as a
member of the Special Union.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to this Agree-
ment and give its advice and consent to
ratification.
The White House,
March 22, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the agreement and ac-
companying papers are printed in Senate Ex-
ecutive E (93d Cong., 1st sess.).
89 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
International Economic Report of the President.
March 22, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
The Nation is again at peace. We also
are firmly on the course of strong eco-
nomic growth at home. Now we must
turn more of our attention to the urgent
problems we face in our economic deal-
ings with other nations. International
problems may seem to some of us to be far
away, but they have a very direct impact
on the jobs, the incomes and the living
standards of our people. Neither the
peace we have achieved nor the economic
growth essential to our national welfare
will last if we leave such matters unat-
tended, for they can diminish our pros-
perity at home and at the same time pro-
voke harmful friction abroad.
Our major difficulties stem from rely-
ing too long upon outdated economic ar-
rangements and institutions despite the
rapid changes which have taken place in
the world. Many countries we helped to
rebuild after World War II are now our
strong economic competitors. Americans
can no longer act as if these historic devel-
opments had not taken place. We must do
a better job of preparing ourselves—both
in the private sector and in the Govern-
ment-to compete more effectively in
world markets, so that expanding trade
can bring greater benefits to our people.
In the summer of 1971, this Adminis-
tration initiated fundamental changes in
American foreign economic policy. We
have also introduced proposals for the re-
form of the international monetary and
trading systems which have lost their abil-
ity to deal with current problems. The
turmoil in world monetary affairs has
demonstrated clearly that greater urgency
must now be attached to constructive re-
form.
At home, we have continued our fight
to maintain price stability and to im-
prove our productivity-objectives which
are as important to our international eco-
nomic position as to our domestic welfare.
What is our next step?
In my State of the Union message on
the economy last month, I outlined cer-
tain measures to strengthen both our
domestic and international economic
position. One of the most important is
trade reform.
In choosing an international trade
policy which will benefit all Americans, I
have concluded that we must face up to
more intense long-term competition in
219
