[63] Mar. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
gram and a new approach to welfare in
which there is a bonus not for welfare
but a bonus, if there is to be one, for work.
That may be over-simplifying, but
basically, in our welfare system today,
because of varying standards and because
the amounts for food stamps and other
fringes have gone up so much, we find
that in area after area of this country it
is more profitable to go on welfare than
to go to work. That is wrong. It is unfair
to the working poor. The family assistance
program, I thought then and I think now,
is the best answer.
Now, there are many who object to it,
and because of those objections there is no
chance—and we have checked this out; I
have made my own judgment of the politi-
cal situation, and I have talked to [Clark]
MacGregor, and I have talked to [Wil-
liam E.] Timmons, and I have talked to
Bryce Harlow about it-there is no chance
we can get it through the Senate because
of objections, on the one side, to any
family assistance program at all, on prin-
ciple, and to actions, on the other side, if
we put up the program, to raise the price
tag so high that we could not possibly af-
ford it.
So we have to find a different way. I
have told Secretary Weinberger, therefore,
to go back to the drawing board and also
to go to the Members of the Senate on
both sides and to bring me back a pro-
gram which will stop this unconscionable
situation where people who go on welfare
find it more profitable to go on welfare
than to go to work. And I think we will
find an answer. Family assistance may be
part of that answer, but I know we are
going to have to change it in order to get
a vote a proposition that will get the
votes.
L. PATRICK GRAY III
[9] Now Mr. Mollenhoff [Clark R.
Mollenhoff, Des Moines Register and
Tribune].
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Gray has been
up before the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, and he has been under attack for
political speeches in 1972, and there is a
controversy about whether those are or
are not political speeches. I wonder if you
have looked at those, whether you have a
view on that? And it seemed to me the
most vulnerable point was a memo from
Patrick O'Donnell from the White House,
that was distributed to all the surrogates
for the President, that went to Pat Gray on
the Cleveland situation, and it involved a
setting out of how crucial Ohio was in the
campaign in 1972. And I wonder if you
felt that was a breach of your instructions
relative to the politics of Pat Gray and
whether you had investigated this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Mollen-
hoff, that is a very proper question. I mean
I would not suggest other questions are
improper, but it is a very proper question,
because when I appointed Mr. Gray, as
you remember, I said I was not going to
send his name last year because I felt that
we should wait until we got past the politi-
cal campaign so that the Senate could
consider it in a nonpolitical and non-
partisan atmosphere, and the Senate is
now doing that.
As far as Mr. Gray is concerned-and
not the individual, but the Director of
the FBI-he must be, as Mr. Hoover was
before him, a nonpartisan figure. He
'On February 21, 1973, the President nomi-
nated Mr. Gray to be Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Gray had been
designated Acting Director on May 3, 1972.
156
