[162] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
quently, on April 25, 1973, Attorney Gen-
eral Kleindienst informed me that because
the Government had clear evidence that
Mr. Hunt was involved in the break-in
of the office of the psychiatrist who had
treated Mr. Ellsberg, he, the Attorney
General, believed that despite the fact
that no evidence had been obtained from
Hunt's acts, a report should nevertheless
be made to the court trying the Ellsberg
case. I concurred, and directed that the
information be transmitted to Judge
Byrne immediately.
WATERGATE
The burglary and bugging of the Demo-
cratic National Committee headquarters
came as a complete surprise to me. I had
no inkling that any such illegal activities
had been planned by persons associated
with my campaign; if I had known, I
would not have permitted it. My immedi-
ate reaction was that those guilty should
be brought to justice, and, with the five
burglars themselves already in custody, I
assumed that they would be.
Within a few days, however, I was ad-
vised that there was a possibility of CIA
involvement in some way.
It did seem to me possible that, because
of the involvement of former CIA per-
sonnel, and because of some of their ap-
parent associations, the investigation could
lead to the uncovering of covert CIA
operations totally unrelated to the Water-
gate break-in.
In addition, by this time, the name of
Mr. Hunt had surfaced in connection
with Watergate, and I was alerted to the
fact that he had previously been a mem-
ber of the Special Investigations Unit in
the White House. Therefore, I was also
concerned that the Watergate investiga-
tion might well lead to an inquiry into
the activities of the Special Investigations
Unit itself.
In this area, I felt it was important to
avoid disclosure of the details of the na-
tional security matters with which the
group was concerned. I knew that once
the existence of the group became known,
it would lead inexorably to a discussion
of these matters, some of which remain,
even today, highly sensitive.
I wanted justice done with regard to
Watergate; but in the scale of national
priorities with which I had to deal—and
not at that time having any idea of the
extent of political abuse which Watergate
reflected-I also had to be deeply con-
cerned with ensuring that neither the
covert operations of the CIA nor the op-
erations of the Special Investigations
Unit should be compromised. Therefore,
I instructed Mr. Haldeman and Mr.
Ehrlichman to ensure that the investiga-
tion of the break-in not expose either an
unrelated covert operation of the CIA or
the activities of the White House investi-
gations unit-and to see that this was
personally coordinated between General
Walters, the Deputy Director of the CIA,
and Mr. Gray of the FBI. It was certainly
not my intent, nor my wish, that the
investigation of the Watergate break-in
or of related acts be impeded in any way.
On July 6, 1972, I telephoned the Act-
ing Director of the FBI, L. Patrick Gray,
to congratulate him on his successful han-
dling of the hijacking of a Pacific South-
west Airlines plane the previous day. Dur-
ing the conversation Mr. Gray discussed
with me the progress of the Watergate
investigation, and I asked him whether he
had talked with General Walters. Mr.
Gray said that he had, and that General
Walters had assured him that the CIA
552
