Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 14 [43]
executive branches of Government should
take in partnership to improve it.
This year, I am presenting my State of
the Union report not just in one speech
but in several messages on individual
topics to permit more careful considera-
tion of the challenges we face. And
because both the President and the
Congress are servants of the people, I am
inviting the people to join with us in con-
sidering these issues, by discussing them
in a series of radio talks.
Today I want to talk with you about
the first of these detailed messages, the
one on the state of America's natural re-
sources and environment, which I will
send to the Congress later this week.
President Abraham Lincoln, whose
memory we are honoring this week, ob-
served in his State of the Union message
in 1862 that “A nation may be said to
consist of its territory, its people, and its
laws. The territory," he said, "is the only
part which is of certain durability."
In recent years, however, we have come
to realize that what Lincoln called our
"territory"—that is, our land, air, water,
minerals, and the like-is not of "certain
durability" after all. Instead, we have
learned that these natural resources are
fragile and finite, and that many have
been seriously damaged or despoiled.
To put it another way, we realized that
self-destructive tendencies were endanger-
ing the American earth during the 1960's
in much the same way as conflicting polit-
ical forces had endangered the body
politic during the 1860's.
When we came to office in 1969, we
tackled this challenge with all the power
at our command. Now, in 1973, I can re-
port that America is well on the way to
winning the war against environmental
degradation-well on the way to making
our peace with nature.
Day by day, our air is getting cleaner.
In virtually every one of our major cities,
the levels of air pollution are declining.
Month by month, our water pollution
problems are also being conquered, our
noise and pesticide problems are yielding
to new initiatives, our parklands and pro-
tected wilderness areas are increasing.
Year by year, our commitment of pub-
lic funds for environmental programs con-
tinues to grow. Some people claim that
we are not spending enough. But they
ignore the fact that Federal spending for
protection of our environment and nat-
ural resources has increased fourfold in
the last 4 years. In the area of water qual-
ity alone, it has grown fifteenfold. In fact,
we are now buying new facilities nearly
as fast as the construction industry can
build them. Spending still more money
would not buy us more pollution control
facilities but only more expensive ones.
In addition to what Government is do-
ing in the battle against pollution, our
private industries are assuming a steadily
growing share of responsibility in this
field. Last year industrial spending for pol-
lution control jumped by 50 percent. This
year it could reach as much as $5 billion.
As befits America's world leadership
role, we are also moving vigorously with
other nations to preserve the global en-
vironment. The United States-Soviet envi-
ronmental cooperation agreement which
I signed in Moscow last year makes two
of the world's greatest industrial powers
allies against pollution. Another agree-
ment which we concluded last
year with
Canada will help to clean up the Great
Lakes. The ocean-dumping curbs passed
by the Congress at my urging have put
91
