[336] Nov. 18 Public Papers of the Presidents
strength that we need that will keep the
peace and perhaps win the wars.
pithy, terse, sometimes, people thought,
even rather brittle speech, but yet going
to the heart of every question; and Walter
George, with that magnificent back-
ground which comes from centuries of
being taught eloquence of the great
Southern statesmen.
And so, if I were in the Mercer Law
School or on its faculty, I would be proud
to be here, not only because it is a fine law
school but because it bears the name of
such a very great man who served the
State of Georgia and served his Nation so
well.
And now comes the part of my remarks
that have to do with Carl Vinson. Actu-
ally, I had a very-not very long, but I
thought appropriately long speech, and
as the various speakers went along I be-
gan to scratch it out, because everything
I wanted to say about Mr. Vinson had al-
ready been said more eloquently than I
could possibly say it.
But there is one thing that was not said.
A great deal of attention has been paid
to the fact that Carl Vinson was a man
who stood for strong national defense. He
was Mr. Armed Services, he was Mr.
Navy, he was Mr. American, he was Mr.
Congressman.
He was all of those things, but the
emphasis on his life was primarily that of
strength, military strength. He must not
be just remembered and thought of that
way, because Carl Vinson was a broad-
gauged man.
There are men in the House and the
Senate who think solely in terms of
strength by itself is enough; if America is
strong enough, we don't have to worry
about our diplomacy, and we don't have
to worry about what we have in the way
of national character. It is that military
But a young Congressman came to the
House of Representatives as the young-
est Member of the Congress when he
came, 30 years of age, Carl Vinson of
Georgia.
In his first speech, listen to what he
said: "I devoutly hope that the casting
of every gun and the building of every
ship will be done with a prayer for the
peace of America. I have at heart no sec-
tional nor political interest but only the
Republic's safety."
In those few words we capture the life
of this very great man. "I have," he says,
"at heart no sectional nor political inter-
est." He served eight Presidents, four of
them Republicans, four of them Demo-
crats. He had the confidence of every one
of them, and he served each one of them
as loyally whether they were of his party
or the other. And it is that kind of service,
which puts America above party, that he
represents and that America can always
use today.
And then, "the building of every ship,
the casting of every gun will be done with
a prayer for the peace of America." I
thought as he was speaking that we could
be thankful for a lot of things today,
thankful for the fact that our young men,
for the first time in 25 years, are not being
drafted for the armed services. They can
make the choice, and we hope many will,
to serve their country in peacetime as
volunteers.
We can be thankful that for the first
time in 12 years, America is at peace with
every nation in the world; that for the first
time in 8 years, all of our prisoners of war
are home; and that we are beginning to
make progress, we believe, toward build-
968
