Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 3 [66]
people join me in expressing our deepest
sympathy to the families of these diplo-
mats who have given the last full measure
of devotion in service to their country.
NOTE: Ambassador Noel and Mr. Moore, along
with Belgian Chargé d'Affaires Guy Eid, were
slain a day after they had been captured and
held hostage by members of the Black Septem-
ber terrorist group in the Saudi Arabian Em-
bassy. Two days later, the terrorists surrendered
to Sudanese officials, releasing unharmed the
Saudi Arabian Ambassador and the Jordanian
Chargé d'Affaires.
The White House announced that the Presi-
dent ordered the White House flag to be flown
at half-staff, together with the flags of the De-
partment of State and all American consular
posts abroad, until the interment of Ambassador
Noel and Mr. Moore.
66 Remarks at the Swearing In of G. Bradford Cook as
Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
March 3, 1973
WE ARE here for the swearing in of the
new Chairman of the SEC.
[At this point, Kevin Duffy, United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of New
York, administered the oath of office. The Presi-
dent then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see
from his appearance, Mr. Cook is one of
the youngest men ever to be appointed
Chairman of this very important Commis-
sion. The reason he is receiving this ap-
pointment is that his predecessor, Bill
Casey, who is now in the State Depart-
ment, recommended him as the best man
to carry on the reforms that Mr. Casey
initiated so effectively when he was the
Chairman.
Mr. Cook has served, as you know, as
General Counsel for the Commission, and
his appointment indicates two things,
among many others: first, our belief that
a young man who has the experience and
the ability should not have his age be a
bar to his going up to a high position of
this sort, and second, that an individual
who works within a department, who
proves himself there, can be and should be
promoted to a higher position after he has
proved himself.
So, Mr. Cook, you are going to have to
fill some pretty big shoes, but I think you
can do it.
MR. COOK. Thank you. First of all, I
am honored sir, for probably the greatest
privilege of my life, to serve you. You have
made a lot of tough decisions in the last
4 years, and I hope that mine aren't quite
as tough as yours. I am, of course, honored,
also, to be able to follow Bill Casey, whom
I greatly admired, and hope I can con-
tinue his programs. So I consider this a
great honor and I won't let you down.
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure of that.
Good luck.
MR. COOK. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon in the
Oval Office at the White House.
163
