[253] Sept. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
have more adequate protection and would
help to bear a reasonable share of the cost.
The Congress has moved rapidly on this
bill; but unfortunately in floor action this
past week, the House added a number of
amendments that would seriously ham-
string the administration of the program
and would badly erode its effectiveness. I
hope that we can iron out our differences
on these crippling amendments in a spirit
of constructive compromise that preserves
the effectiveness of the bill for those who
need it so badly.
of
SELF-GOVERNMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
In 1969 I first proposed a series of ac-
tions intended to bring about an orderly
transfer of political power to the people
of the District of Columbia. I called for a
Constitutional Amendment giving the
District at least one representative in the
House and such other additional repre-
sentation as the Congress may approve.
I proposed, and Congress enacted, legis-
lation providing for an interim non-voting
Congressional delegate and for the crea-
tion of a Commission on the Organization
of the Government of the District of Co-
lumbia, the so-called Nelsen Commission.
The Nelsen Commission's recommenda-
tions deserve careful consideration. If en-
acted, these proposals would greatly
strengthen the capability and expand the
authority of the City's government and
moderate the Federal constraints over its
operation. Once again, I urge rapid action
by the Congress.
As the American Bicentennial dawns, I
pledge the Administration to work recep-
tively and cooperatively in this area to
achieve true and effective self-govern-
ment for the District of Columbia.
FIGHTING CRIME AND DRUG ABUSE
In recent years, America's peace offi-
cers, with the assistance and encourage-
ment of Federal law enforcement agencies
and with the support of far-sighted legis-
lation passed by the Congress, have made
commendable inroads against crime. After
17 years of continuous and sometimes
shocking increases in the rate of crime, the
nationwide rate of serious crime went
down in 1972.
But this progress must not be taken as
evidence that we can now relent in this
struggle. Rather, we must redouble our
efforts to restore law and order to Ameri-
ca, whether it be in the boardrooms of our
corporations, in the halls of our govern-
ment, or on our city streets. We must do
all we can to make the present moment a
decisive turning point so that our commu-
nities will once again be safe. Three of my
legislative proposals are designed to do
just that: a bill to modernize and reform
the Federal Criminal Code: a heroin traf-
ficking bill to crack down on drug
pushers; and a bill to restore the death
penalty for certain of the most serious
Federal offenses.
CRIMINAL CODE REFORM
There is a compelling need for greater
clarity and consistency in our criminal
laws, especially in those which fall within
the Federal ambit. The Federal Criminal
Code, which dates back to 1790, has never
been thoroughly revised. It is no longer
a fully effective instrument for the ad-
ministration of criminal justice--just as
the national transport systems of 1790
would no longer be adequate to the de-
mands of 20th century America.
Since 1966, a number of public and
780
