Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 18 [336]
ing a structure of peace that is not just
limited to Southeast Asia and Vietnam,
an important but not critical part of the
world, not just the Mideast, which is a
very important and possibly a more criti-
cal part of the world than Vietnam, and
not just Europe, which is important and
potentially an area where confrontation
would lead to the disaster that all of us
are trying to avoid, but to build the kind
of a peace in the world which will cover
all the world.
I have always felt that it was wrong
to be Asia first, or Europe first. I have al-
ways thought it wrong to think just of
our own Nation, except as it related to our
living in the whole world.
The world has become very small in
those years that Carl Vinson has served
in the Congress of the United States. The
world has become much smaller in the
years when he first advocated the two-
ocean navy. Today, whether it is halfway
around the world to the People's Repub-
lic of China in Peking, or a third of the
way around the world to the Kremlin in
Moscow, or wherever we go, we must
realize that there cannot be real peace in
the world unless there is developed a
structure of peace which covers not only
the small nations but particularly the great
powers that have the key to peace or to
war in their hands. And that is what
strength is all about.
I know that many think that when the
President of the United States or Herman
Talmadge, on this platform, or Eddie
Hébert out there in this audience, or Phil
Landrum, or Carl Vinson, any of us, talk
about a strong America, and let's not be
number two, there is the thought that
that is jingoism.
Who cares whether we are number one
in arms? I will tell you who care: peo-
ple in every small and weak nation in the
world. Because without America and its
strength, no small nation would have a
chance to survive today. That is what it
is all about.
I am not suggesting that America
should be the world's policeman.
I am not suggesting that whenever
there is a problem, as there was in Korea
and then in Vietnam, that America is the
nation that must go to the rescue of these
small nations. I am only saying this: that
in a world where there is nuclear power,
and in a world where there are super pow-
ers two in existence and one coming
along very fast, the People's Republic of
China-we must not leave the position of
leadership to other nations without hav-
ing the balance that is needed, so that they
will see that their interest will be served
by not using that enormous power that
they have, either for the purpose of con-
quest without war, or even with war itself.
I am not suggesting here that Mr.
Brezhnev wants war, or that Mr. Mao
Tse-tung or Mr. Chou En-lai wants war.
I am only saying this: that reading the
pages of history, when a vacuum is left
and when there is a great power with no
other power to balance it, then a very
dangerous situation develops in terms of
the threat to the peace of the world.
And looking at the United States and all
of the criticism we have taken for our
role in Korea and then in Vietnam, and
even in other times, we can be thankful
for this: Our young men have gone abroad
in four wars. They have fought bravely.
They have died. But we have never gone
in terms of conquest. We have never gone
to seek territory. We have never gone to
break the peace. We have always gone to
969
