Richard Nixon, 1973
July 31 [224]
sented to the world reliable information
about our people, our culture, our aspira-
tions, and our policies. As the relationships
among nations have changed and as we
have moved from an era of confrontation
to a new and challenging period of nego-
tiation, USIA's efforts take on new impor-
tance. In a climate of lessened tensions
and increased negotiations, international
relationships are more complex and the
issues more complicated. To succeed, our
policies must be understood, our motives
made clear and our ideals articulated.
Truly there is a need today for a commu-
nications effort in support of our diplo-
matic initiatives to build a durable struc-
ture of peace in which those who would
influence others will do so by the strength
of their ideas, not by the force of their
arms.
On this twentieth anniversary year of
the United States Information Agency, I
extend to its staff serving at home and
abroad congratulations for a job well done
and my best wishes for the future.
RICHARD NIXON
224 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Tanaka
of Japan. July 31, 1973
Mr. Prime Minister, all of our distin-
guished guests from Japan, all of our dis-
tinguished guests from the United States:
We have many very distinguished guests
in this company tonight, but one in par-
ticular I should mention that we are al-
ways delighted to have, and that is the
lady who presided with such grace over
this house for 8 years, Mrs. Dwight Eisen-
hower.
President Eisenhower respected and
loved the Japanese people, and it was
President Eisenhower who gave Mrs.
Nixon and me the opportunity to know
the Japanese people, because in 1953, as
Secretary Rogers will remember, he made
a cryptic comment after a Cabinet meet-
ing that I should take a trip.
In those days we had not heard of the
kind of trips the young people take to-
day, and I said, "Where would you sug-
gest, Mr. President?" And he said, "You
should go to Japan and to the other coun-
tries of Asia."
And
so, the trip was one that acquainted
both of us with Asia for the first time in
a real way. For 73 days we never finished
a dinner without champagne and never
got out of a black tie.
But in any event, out of that trip in
1953, 20 years ago, many vivid memories
stand out, but the memory that stands
out among many others is particularly
that of Japan. I remember the people
that I saw. I remember the leaders that I
met. I remember that giant of a man,
Yoshida ยน-not giant in stature, but giant
in intelligence and understanding of the
world, one of the few world statesmen, in
the true sense, of that period.
And when I returned and reported
to President Eisenhower, I told him then
that despite the pessimistic suggestions
that were made by some in high places
that Japan had a long way to go before it
recovered, I said Japan is on the way
and that it will make it, not because of
American aid-because many in the
world have received American aid and
Shigeru Yoshida, Prime Minister of Japan
(1948-53).
673
