[245] Sept. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
whom, of course, you knew well, worked
under, and of course, Mr. Helms, now the
Ambassador that wherever you can,
when anything is going to happen, or does
happen. that the CIA could tell me
before I read it in the papers. [Laughter]
MR. COLBY. That is a very direct
charge.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President sp ke at 11 am in the
Oval Office at the White House
Richard Helms was United States Ambas-
sador to Iran.
246 The President's News Conference of
September 5, 1973
STATEMENT ABOUT LEGISLATIVE GOALS
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, before going to your questions, I
have a brief announcement that I think
will be of interest not only to our listeners
and to you but also to the Congress.
The Congress is returning today from
its August recess, as I am, and as I look
over the record of accomplishment this
year, I find it is very disappointing in
terms of the Administration initiatives,
those initiatives that I believe are bipar-
tisan in character and of vital importance
to all of the American people.
Consequently, I will be sending what
is in effect a new State of the Union mes-
sage, one which will concentrate on the
measures presently before the Congress
which have not been acted upon and
which I consider urgent to be acted upon
before the end of this year.
I am not trying to present to the Con-
gress an impossible task; consequently, I
will not cover the whole waterfront, but it
is important that in several areas that
action be taken, or it will be too late to
act for the interests of the people.
In my statement today. I will cover
four or five areas that will be included
in that message, which will be distributed
to you on Sunday night and delivered to
the Congress Monday at the time of the
opening of business.
FIGHTING INFLATION
[2] The first is the very high priority
area of fighting inflation. As you know, we
are going into a new set of tough controls
on September 13. In addition to that, the
Federal Reserve is tightening up on the
money supply, and we are moving on the
supply front, particularly in the field of
agriculture, so that we can eventually look
forward to halting the rise in food prices
and, we trust, eventually lowering them.
These three areas are vitally important
in fighting inflation, but the three alone
are not enough without a fourth area. In-
flation must be fought on four fronts at
all times. And the fourth area, of course,
is the Federal budget. It is very discon-
certing to note that already before the
Congress are spending proposals which,
if enacted, would bust the budget to the
tune of at least $6 billion. These proposals
I do not look forward to vetoing and to
go through the agony of having to fight
with the Congress on the veto.
732
