Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
dependence, sovereignty, and terri-
torial integrity, and noninterference
in each other's internal affairs.
These provisions are clear. They are not
tied to any other conditions. To date they
have been ignored by Hanoi. Although
fighting has subsided in Laos, attacks
there by the North Vietnamese and their
allies continue. In Cambodia, Communist
forces have increased their attacks in a
major effort to isolate Phnom Penh and
other population centers. Hanoi has con-
tinued to infiltrate men and supplies into
and through Laos and Cambodia. It gives
no sign of ending this flow or withdrawing
its forces from either country.
The U.S. position is clear. We will not
tolerate violations of the Vietnam Agree-
ment. We have every interest in seeing
peace observed in Laos and peace attained
in Cambodia. The legitimate governments
of the two countries are working toward
this end. In both countries we will honor
whatever agreements are worked out by
the peoples themselves. We firmly intend
to implement all the provisions of the
Vietnam Agreement, and we insist that all
other parties do so as well.
Hanoi has always exploited Laos and
Cambodia in its conduct of the Vietnam
War. It has etched a similar, distressing
pattern in both of South Vietnam's neigh-
bors in recent years:
-Neither Laos nor Cambodia has ever
threatened North Vietnam, nor could
they threaten it.
-The neutrality, independence, sover-
eignty, and territorial integrity of
both countries were established by in-
ternational agreements signed by
Hanoi and its allies.
-The North Vietnamese have con-
tinually violated all these principles
for years by sending tens of thou-
sands of their troops into both coun-
tries and organizing insurgent forces.
-Hanoi's primary target has been
South Vietnam. It has used Laos
and Cambodia for infiltration cor-
ridors for its troops and supplies, for
base areas for launching attacks on
South Vietnam, and for sanctuaries.
-In the process, North Vietnam has
also threatened the neutral govern-
ments in Vientiane and Phnom Penh.
-The helpless people of both nations,
wanting nothing but to be left alone,
have been subjected for years to out-
side aggression and exploitation.
Given the indivisibility of the Indochina
conflict, our policy toward Laos and Cam-
bodia has always been closely related to
our policy in Vietnam. A fundamental
concern has been with the Communist
use of Laos and Cambodia in pursuit of
their main objectives in South Vietnam.
We also have been concerned with
Hanoi's breaking of international agree-
ments on these countries, and we have an
interest in the independence and neutral-
ity of the states in Southeast Asia.
Diplomatically, all our negotiating pro-
posals on Vietnam have included Laos
and Cambodia as well. The basic ele-
ments of our plans, such as ceasefire, re-
lease of American prisoners, the ban on
infiltration and base areas, and the hold-
ing of an international conference con-
cerned all of Indochina. Militarily, we
have provided air and logistic support to
the internationally recognized govern-
ments in Vientiane and Phnom Penh. This
policy has been essential to protect the
independence of South Vietnam and to
enforce the Indochina aspect of the Viet-
nam peace settlement.
397
