[198] July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
in 12 years, no Americans are being killed
in Vietnam. We have peace in Vietnam.
For the first time in 8 years, there are no
American prisoners of war held abroad.
They are all home in the United States
where they belong. And for the first time
in over 20 years, no young Americans are
being drafted for the armed services. They
can go in on a volunteer basis, which is
what we want.
These are enormously significant
changes as we enter this new era of work-
ing toward peace abroad, but they some-
times may obscure the progress we have
made in trying to match that to the record
of moving toward peace at home.
It is hard at this moment to realize that
just 5 years ago, many of the cities of this
country were in flames; that just 5 years
ago, we were looking back on a period of
the sixties in which crime had doubled
and was continuing to escalate. Five years
ago, we were looking back on a period in
which the use of dangerous drugs con-
tinued to escalate without an adequate
program to fight that great danger, a dan-
ger particularly to the young people of
this country.
And we find that today we have not
conquered those problems, just as we have
not assured that we are going to have
peace in the years ahead abroad, because
working for peace is a constant responsi-
bility of all of us in positions of respon-
sibility, whether it is abroad or at home.
But today we can look at the record,
and we can say, as we look, particularly,
at our colleges and universities, that this
last academic year was the first one in 8
years that we did not have destruction
and violence on those campuses and
universities.
We can look back, too, and see that in
the last year, for the first time in 15 years,
we found crime in this country, street
crimes that affect the people of Kansas
City and every city and town in this coun-
try, instead of going up, went down, and
that is something we want to continue to
achieve in the years ahead.
And we found that in this last year,
while we have not completely conquered,
and of course, we never will, the problem
of dangerous drugs, that we have made
more progress in that area than has been
made in the last 15 years.
And that brings us to the man who has
just been sworn in as the Director of the
FBI. To find the man to move into that
position after the many, many years that
Mr. Hoover had served in it was a diffi-
cult task. We tried to find the very best
man in the country.
I remember that one day I called Gen-
eral Haig into my office, when we had a
list of candidates, and I said, "I remember
a police chief I met in Kansas City. I only
met him for a few moments when I went
out to visit a hospital where two police-
men were recovering from injuries suf-
fered in the line of duty." I said, "I don't
know his background, but some way, I
like the cut of his jib. He is a strong man.
Look into it."
And when we looked into him and com-
pared this man's qualifications with the
26 other top-flight people in law enforce-
ment, he came out at the top of the list,
and I want to tell you why.
He came out at the top of the list first
because he is from the FBI; he knows
it-21 years, a whole generation of dis-
tinguished service in the FBI. So, the men
of the FBI know that they have one of
their own, one who understands their
problems, one whom they can respect.
640
