[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
in 1969. We now understand each
other's concerns better than we did
then. We have a common language
for discussion.
-The limits of ABM systems should
provide an incentive for limiting fur-
ther growth in offensive capabilities.
-At the present levels of strategic
forces, small differences in numbers
assume less importance.
A further question is the impact of fu-
ture agreements on other states. We will
not make agreements that reduce the se-
curity of other countries. Nor can we per-
mit threats to our allies to develop
unchecked because of SALT agreements.
Such factors do not limit the prospects for
further U.S.-Soviet limitation on offen-
sive systems, but they do delimit the area
for negotiation.
In sum, a future agreement should:
-establish an essential equivalence in
strategic capabilities among systems
common to both sides;
-maintain the survivability of stra-
tegic forces in light of known and
potential technological capabilities;
-provide for the replacement and
modernization of older systems with-
out upsetting the strategic balance;
-be subject to adequate verification;
-leave the security of third parties un-
diminished.
MUTUAL AND BALANCED Force.
REDUCTIONS (MBFR)
Preparations. In June 1968, before this
Administration took office, the North At-
lantic Alliance made a proposal to begin
discussions with the Warsaw Pact on a
mutual reduction of forces in Central
Europe. Although this overture had met
with no positive response, we reaffirmed
the Alliance proposal in April 1969.
Troop reduction was a concrete security
issue, rather than an exercise in atmos-
pherics, and was thus consistent with the
general effort to move from confrontation
toward negotiations.
At the same time, we found that the
idea of mutual reductions had not been
systematically analyzed before 1969. The
general theories were that it would be
possible to maintain security at lower
force levels and that force reductions in
themselves would enhance the relaxation
of political tension.
We decided to follow an analytical ap-
proach similar to the one we used for
SALT. We investigated the feasible re-
ductions of all the forces that might be
involved, analyzed the effect of reduc-
tions on the capabilities of each side, and
examined the changing balance of forces
should the agreements be violated and
both sides begin reinforcing. We also
studied the verification requirements and
how they might affect the possible kinds
of reductions.
The following considerations illustrate
the complexities of the MBFR process:
-Reductions provide an inherent ad-
vantage for the side that has pos-
tured its forces along offensive lines:
offensive forces would retain the ini-
tiative to concentrate and attack,
while the defense must continue to
defend the same geographical front
with fewer forces.
-Major deployments of equipment,
especially those with offensive capa-
bilities, are therefore an important
element in the reduction process.
-How can equivalence be established
between different categories of
equipment? What ratios would be
equitable?
498
