[354] Dec. 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
important to me than the confidence of
the American people in the integrity of the
President.
Questions and controversies may con-
tinue as a consequence of these disclo-
sures. Even the men who have advised me
in these matters and who have prepared
my financial records, statements, and tax
returns have disagreements of profes-
sional opinion among themselves. But
most of the questions outstanding in the
public mind today should be put to rest
with the publication of these documents.
With regard to my tax returns the
contents of which will be made public
today the accountants who prepared
them listed all of the deductions to which
they believed I was entitled, and only
those deductions as any accountant
would and should do on behalf of his
client.
The following are among the papers
being released today:
-The figures from the Federal income
tax returns which my wife and I filed
for the years 1969, 1970, 1971, and 1972.
-An independent audit of my private
financial affairs, since January 1, 1969,
conducted by one of the Nation's largest
and most respected accounting firms,
Coopers & Lybrand of New York City.
-The significant documents relating
to the major financial transactions since
my first inauguration, including the pur-
chase of my home in San Clemente and
the sale of stock and real estate owned
at the time I became President.
TAX REVIEW BY CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEE
Even with these disclosures, there may
continue to be public questions about the
tax consequences of two of the transac-
tions shown. One is the gift of my papers
to the United States Government in 1969.
As permitted by the Internal Revenue
Code, I have taken tax deductions for the
value of that gift, but some have asked
whether the procedures used to make the
donation met the technical requirements
of the gift law. The second transaction
was the sale in 1970 of a large portion of
the beneficial interest my wife and I held
in our property at San Clemente. No capi-
tal gain was declared on that sale for tax
purposes, and there has been speculation
in the press that the transaction was in-
accurately reported.
The tax lawyers and accountants who
assisted me in the preparation of my Fed-
eral income tax returns advised me that
both of these items were correctly re-
ported to the Internal Revenue Service.
My tax attorneys today are giving me
similar advice. Furthermore, when it con-
ducted an examination of my tax returns
for 1971 and 1972, the Internal Revenue
Service reviewed both items and advised
me that they were correctly reported.
Nevertheless, questions will continue
on these matters, and because they are
complex transactions, it will not be easy
to resolve public doubts without an inde-
pendent review. For that reason, I have
asked the members of the Joint Congres-
sional Committee on Internal Revenue
Taxation to examine the procedures re-
lating to both matters and to decide
whether, in their judgment, my tax re-
turns should have shown different results.
I will abide by the committee's judgment.
GOVERNMENT SPENDING AT
SAN CLEMENTE
Another concern of mine has been the
degree of public misunderstanding about
1006
