[286] Oct. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
are
law.' And that is why, Mr. President, in
addition to talking to our bilateral prob-
lems, which incidentally are not very con-
troversial because our relations
excellent and have been for many years,
we will today be talking about the prob-
lems of how we can create that same
period of peace and stability for all of
Africa that you have in your country and
how, also, working together with other
nations who want peace for the whole
world, we can contribute to an end to the
fighting which is now going on at such
terrible cost to both sides in the Mideast.
We look forward to our talks, to get
your judgment as to how all nations can
contribute to the goal of not simply an
end to the fighting which is going on now
but to building a new structure of peace in
the Mideast, which will give a better hope
for avoiding war breaking out as it has
over and over again for the past 25 years.
I do not mean that today we will find
the answer to that problem that has
plagued many administrations here and
abroad for a quarter of a century, but I do
know that uppermost in our agenda to-
day will be a discussion of those problems
with the hope that we can find those
common principles which will move to-
ward not only an end to the fighting but
building a permanent structure of peace
in the Mideast and eventually, of course,
throughout the world.
So, Mr. President, I say that we give
you a very special welcome today to our
ยน President Houphouet-Boigny was presented
a special "Man of Peace" award at the Sixth
World Conference on World Peace Through
Law held August 26-31, 1973, in Abidjan,
Republic of Ivory Coast. The conference was
held by the World Peace Through Law Center,
an organization of jurists, lawyers, legal schol-
ars, and law students from 135 nations.
country because of your official position,
and also because both Mrs. Nixon and I
have had the privilege of being welcomed
so warmly in your country. And we hope
that you will enjoy your stay here, your
visit to the West Coast, and will go back
with as pleasant memories of the United
States as Mrs. Nixon and I have very
pleasant and warm memories of Ivory
Coast.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:46 am. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
President Houphouet-Boigny was given a for-
mal welcome with full military honors.
See also Item 288
in
President Houphouet-Boigny spoke
French. His remarks were translated by an
interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
Allow me first of all to express to you in
my own name, in the name of my wife, and
of my delegation, my deep appreciation for
your kind invitation and for the words full of
praise you have just had for myself and my
delegation. At this privileged moment, I feel
deep pride and joy, first of all, because my
new visit in your great and beautiful country
will permit me to acquaint myself more deeply
with one of the more astonishing adventures
of modern times, an adventure without which
our world of today would be deeply different
from what it is with its fascinating diverse-
ness and its bounties.
In the second place, it is because I am about
to meet with you for the very first time about
problems which matter to both of us, and such
exchanges with the prestigious President of the
most powerful of all nations cannot fail to
show and illustrate our common will, as vou
have yourself just stressed a moment ago, to
foster dialog in peace. And finally, I am
deeply convinced that my visit will very hap-
pily contribute to a cause dear to us, that of
cooperation and friendship between the United
States and the Ivory Coast. This cooperation
and friendship, which in their traditional cor-
diality and very large permanence are to us
essential features in our foreign relations, can
only benefit from the conversations and the
850
