Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
America will be in the forefront of our
concern.
PART IV: REGIONS OF TENSION
AND OPPORTUNITY
-Middle East
-South Asia
-Africa
THE MIDDLE EAST
Peace in the Middle East is central to
the global structure of peace. Strategic-
ally, the Middle East is a point where
interests of the major powers converge.
It is a reservoir of energy resources on
which much of the world depends. Politi-
cally, it is a region of diversity, dynamism,
and turmoil, rent by national, social, and
ideological division-and of course by the
Arab-Israeli conflict. Two world wars and
the rising tide of nationalism have broken
down the pre-1914 order, but new pat-
terns of stability have not yet been estab-
lished. Modern quarrels have com-
pounded long-standing ones. Because of
the area's strategic importance, outside
powers have continued to involve them-
selves, often competitively. Several times
since World War II, the Middle East has
been an arena of major crisis.
The irony is that the Middle East also
has such great potential for progress and
peaceful development. Of all the regions
of the developing world, the Middle East,
because of its wealth, is uniquely not de-
pendent on the heavy infusion of capital
resources from outside. Its wealthier na-
tions have been willing and able to provide
the capital for their own development and
have begun to assist their neighbors' de-
velopment. Mechanisms of regional self-
reliance and cooperation are already
functioning. The yearning for unity is
strong within the Arab world; it has deep
historical and cultural roots and its posi-
tive thrust has found new expression in
these cooperative enterprises.
The region's drive for self-reliance
matches the philosophy of United States
foreign policy in a new era. Technical as-
sistance and the provision of skills, now
the most relevant forms of external aid in
much of the Middle East, are forms of aid
which the United States is uniquely
capable of providing and can sustain over
a long term. The United States has long
been a champion of the region's inde-
pendence from colonial or other external
domination. In conditions of peace, there
is a natural community of interest be-
tween the United States and all the na-
tions of the Middle East-an interest in
the region's progress, stability, and inde-
pendence.
The requirements of peace in the Mid-
dle East are not hard to define in prin-
ciple. It requires basic decisions by the
countries of the Middle East to pursue
political solutions and coexist with one
another. Outside powers with interests in
the area must accept their responsibility
for restraint and for helping to mitigate
tensions rather than exploiting them for
their own advantage.
These are principles which the United
States has sought to engage the other
great powers in observing. Coexistence,
negotiated solutions, avoiding the use or
threat of force, great power restraint, non-
interference, respect for the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of states, renun-
ciation of hegemony or unilateral advan-
tage these are the principles of the
Shanghai Communique of February 1972
and the Basic Principles of U.S.-Soviet
Relations of May 1972. They are not new
445
