Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 20 [235]
served their country in America's wars.
And Mrs. Reid, the words that you spoke
and, Commander [Patrick E.] Carr, the
words that you spoke will remain with
me always, remain with me, because I
realize that here in this great hall are
people who, because they have fought in
war, loved peace the more. Thank God
for what you do and what you stand for.
I have spoken to the Veterans of For-
eign Wars on several occasions since I
have been President, and I am proud that
this is the first time I have spoken to you
when the United States is at peace with
every nation in the world. It is a good
time-a good time.
It is also rather an ironic time for those
who follow the Washington scene, as some
of you must. We find that some of the
politicians and some of the members of
the press who enthusiastically supported
the administration which got us into
Vietnam 10 years ago, or were silent when
the decisions were made that got us in,
now are criticizing what I did to get us
out. Well, let me say, getting us out of
the war took a lot of doing, and I am
proud of what we have done. I would like
to talk to you about that today as to how
we accomplished that goal. Because you
see, my friends, I think the time has come
before this organization to answer those
who criticize the policies which helped
to bring Americans peace with honor in
Vietnam.
Now, specifically, as some of you know,
the President of the United States has
been accused of a secret bombing cam-
paign against the defenseless and neutral
country of Cambodia in 1969. That was
2 months after I became President. I want
to tell you the facts about that, what hap-
pened, and let you judge for yourself what
kind of a decision you would have made
as Commander in Chief of the Armed
Forces of the United States at that time.
I remember the meeting in which that
decision was made. Mr. Laird, who was
then Secretary of Defense, remembers; he
was there. Henry Kissinger, to whom you
will give an award tonight, remembers it;
he was there. The chairman of the CIA
was there. The Secretary of State, Secre-
tary Rogers, was there. And we looked
over what was, to us, a totally indefensible
position. Here is what we found when I
came into office:
Three hundred Americans were being
killed every week in Vietnam; 540,000
Americans were in Vietnam with no plan
at all to bring any of them home. Over
500 were prisoners of war under the most
cruel and barbarous conditions and no
plans and no hope for any of them to be
returned home. That was what we found.
So we decided to do something about it.
Incidentally, in pointing out what we
found, I am not criticizing previous Presi-
dents. I am not criticizing the decisions
that they felt were in the national interest
that had to be made, they felt, in Vietnam.
I am simply saying this is what we found,
and we had to find a way to bring the war
to a conclusion, but to bring it to a con-
clusion in a way that the United States.
would still be respected in the world, and
that meant rejecting the views of those
who said just bug out. We could have
bugged out of Vietnam. If we bugged out
of Vietnam, we would not be worth talk-
ing to anyplace in the world today. We
have got to maintain the respect of Amer-
ica throughout the world.
Now, we come to Cambodia. All of you,
particularly the young people here who
study the maps of these areas, know this
country is right on the border of Vietnam.
When I took office, again in 1969 at this
705
