[57] Feb. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Veterans. I have called on Admiral Gay-
ler and General Clay and had a long
talk with both of them, largely having to
do with the prisoners who are returning
[inaudible] and I was so thrilled and I
know you will be enormously pleased.
Those officers said that the prisoners of
war on their arrival went out of their way
to express their great respect for the Presi-
dent and [inaudible]. Those are the men
who mean so much.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our respect is for
them. Yes, sir. And here is the report?
MR. OATES. This is the report, and I
think you will find it is succinct and it has
some good lingo and some better facts. It
shows in the table there, and in the charts,
how the unemployment ratio of veterans
Adm. Noel A. M. Gayler, USN, Commander
in Chief, Pacific, and Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Jr.,
USAF, Commander, Pacific Air Forces.
had gone below the unemployment rate
for non-veterans in the same age group.
THE PRESIDENT. We would like jobs for
them, too.
MR. OATES. Absolutely. This involves
women veterans, also. There are 60,000
women.
NOTE: The President met with Mr. Oates at
10:30 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White
House. Mr. Qates presented the "1972 Annual
Report: National Committee-Jobs for Veter-
ans."
On the same day, the White House issued a
report, entitled "Employment Services to Vet-
erans A Year of Action: Report for Fiscal
Year 1972" (Government Printing Office, 27
pp.), which was prepared by the Manpower
Administration, Department of Labor.
The report presented to the President
shows Vietnam-era veterans' unemployment
(males aged 20-29) has been reduced from
9.1 percent in the second quarter of FY 1971
to 5.9 percent as of January, 1973-
58 Radio Address About the State of the Union
Message on Human Resources.
Good afternoon:
At the beginning of each new year, as
we reflect on the state of our American
Union, we seek again a definition of what
America means. Carl Sandburg came close
to capturing its real meaning in three
simple words that became the title for one
of his greatest poems: "The People, Yes."
America has risen to greatness because
again and again when the chips were
down, the American people have said
yes yes to the challenge of freedom, yes
to the dare of progress, and yes to the
hope of peace-even when defending the
peace has meant paying the price of war.
America's greatness will endure in the
future only if our institutions continually
February 24, 1973
rededicate themselves to saying yes to the
people-yes to human needs and aspira-
tions, yes to democracy and the consent
of the governed, yes to equal opportunity
and unlimited horizons of achievement for
every American.
It is in this spirit of rededication that
I will send to the Congress in the next few
days the fourth section of my 1973 State
of the Union report-a message on the
progress we have made, the steps we now
must take, in helping people to help them-
selves through our Federal programs for
human resources.
Nineteen hundred seventy-three is a
year full of opportunity for great advances
on this front. After more than 10 years of
128
