Richard Nixon, 1973
July 18 [207]
heartening that a program which means
so much to the safety and well-being of
the American people can at the same time
assist in providing these same assurances
to other peoples.
In accordance with Senate Concurrent
Resolution 67 of the 90th Congress, I am
pleased to transmit this annual report de-
scribing the current and planned activities
of Federal agencies participating in the
World Weather Program.
The White House,
July 12, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, dated July 12, 1973, was
sent to the Congress on July 13.
The report is entitled "World Weather Pro-
gram, Plan for Fiscal Year 1974" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 40 pp.).
206 Letter to the Secretary of the Treasury About Secret
Service Testimony Before Congressional Committees.
July 17, 1973
Dear Secretary Shultz:
I hereby direct that no officer or agent
of the Secret Service shall give testimony
to Congressional committees concerning
matters observed or learned while per-
forming protective functions for the Pres-
ident or in their duties at the White
House.
This applies to the Senate Select Com-
mittee which is investigating matters re-
lating to the Watergate break-in and the
current efforts which I am informed are
being made to subpoena present or former
members of the White House detail of the
Secret Service.
You will please communicate this in-
formation to the Director of the Secret
Service promptly and either you or he
should then personally notify the Chair-
man of the Senate Select Committee. You
should further advise the Chairman that
requests for information on procedures in
the White House will be given prompt
consideration when received by me.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable George P. Shultz, Secretary, Treas-
ury Department, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: The text of the letter, dated July 16,
1973, was released July 17.
207 Statement Announcing Measures To Be Taken Under
Phase IV of the Economic Stabilization Program.
July 18, 1973
THE American people now face a pro-
foundly important decision. We have a
freeze on prices which is holding back a
surge of inflation that would break out if
the controls were removed. At the same
time, the freeze is holding down produc-
tion and creating shortages which
threaten to get worse and cause still
higher prices, as the freeze and controls
continue.
In this situation we are offered two ex-
treme kinds of advice.
One suggestion is that we should accept
price and wage controls as a permanent
647
