[96] Mar. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
drug functions, and would absorb the as-
sociated manpower and budgets:
-All functions of the Bureau of Nar-
cotics and Dangerous Drugs (which
would be abolished as a separate entity
by the reorganization plan);
-Those functions of the Bureau of Cus-
toms pertaining to drug investigations
and intelligence (to be transferred from
the Treasury Department to the Attorney
General by the reorganization plan);
-All functions of the Office for Drug
Abuse Law Enforcement; and
-All functions of the Office of Na-
tional Narcotics Intelligence.
Merger of the latter two organizations
into the new agency would be effected by
an executive order dissolving them and
transferring their functions, to take effect
upon approval of Reorganization Plan
No. 2 by the Congress. Drug law enforce-
ment research currently funded by the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administra-
tion and other agencies would also be
transferred to the new agency by executive
action.
The major responsibilities of the Drug
Enforcement Administration would thus
include:
-development of overall Federal drug
law enforcement strategy, programs,
planning, and evaluation;
-full investigation and preparation for
prosecution of suspects for violations
under all Federal drug trafficking
laws;
-full investigation and preparation for
prosecution of suspects connected
with illicit drugs seized at U.S. ports-
of-entry and international borders;
--conduct of all relations with drug
law enforcement officials of foreign
governments, under the policy guid-
ance of the Cabinet Committee on
International Narcotics Control;
-full coordination and cooperation
with State and local law enforcement
officials on joint drug enforcement
⚫ efforts; and
-regulation of the legal manufacture
of drugs and other controlled sub-
stances under Federal regulations.
The Attorney General working closely
with the Administrator of this new
agency, would have authority to make
needed program adjustments. He would
take steps within the Department of Jus-
tice to ensure that high priority emphasis
is placed on the prosecution and sen-
tencing of drug traffickers following their
apprehension by the enforcement orga-
nization. He would also have the author-
ity and responsibility for securing the full-
est possible cooperation-particularly
with respect to collection of drug intelli-
gence-from all Federal departments and
agencies which can contribute to the anti-
drug work, including the Internal Rev-
enue Service and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
My proposals would make possible a
more effective anti-drug role for the FBI,
especially in dealing with the relationship
between drug trafficking and organized
crime. I intend to see that the resources
of the FBI are fully committed to assist
in supporting the new Drug Enforcement
Administration.
The consolidation effected under Re-
organization Plan No. 2 would reinforce
the basic law enforcement and criminal
justice mission of the Department of Jus-
tice. With worldwide drug law enforce-
ment responsibilities no longer divided
among several organizations in two differ-
ent Cabinet departments, more complete
230
