[275] Sept. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
time-consuming court litigation. Patent
owners and those accused of infringing
patents may instead, if mutually agreeable,
turn to arbitration for resolution once a
dispute arises between them. Where
arbitration is not possible, improved dis-
closure and discovery techniques during
the patent application process should re-
duce the expense and uncertainty of sub-
sequent litigation.
In the event of a dispute over the valid-
ity of a patent, the legislation I am recom-
mending would clarify the rights of the
patentee or a person who might hold his
patent, such as an assignee or licensee. An-
other provision would ensure that the
patent laws not be construed to replace or
preempt state laws concerning trade
secrets so long as those state laws do not
interfere with the free flow of ideas in
the public domain. Decisions of the Su-
preme Court in both of these areas would
also be left undisturbed.
PRESERVING The Best of the Present
SYSTEM
The Patent Modernization and Reform
Act of 1973 is more than a reform bill. It
would preserve and extend some of the
best and most important aspects of our
current patent system. In preparing this
legislation, the Administration considered
and analyzed a great many proposals for
changing the present law-but our deci-
sion was to adopt only those proposals for
change that would significantly improve
the system.
We were particularly anxious to main-
tain present standards for the awarding
of patents, including the requirement that
inventions serve a useful purpose. One of
the virtues of the American patent system
is its emphasis upon practicality --its de-
mands that ideas be reduced to a tangible
form having a known usefulness before the
public should grant a monopoly on the
concept to the applicant.
My proposal would also preserve the
American concept of giving the patent to
the person who is first to invent, because
he is the individual most deserving of
recognition and encouragement. In doing
so, we would reject the approach of cer-
tain other countries that award the patent
to the first applicant to file for a patent.
In addition, the existing state of case
law on antitrust standards for patent li-
censing that have been determined by the
courts would not be changed. Some have
argued that this case-by-case approach to
patent licensing has increasingly eroded
the value and reliability of the patent
grant. Earlier this year, I requested that
various proposals addressed to this issue
be carefully studied and reviewed by the
Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney
General, and my chief advisers on eco-
nomic policy. After much study, they con-
cluded that there is no clearly demon-
strated need or justification for introduc-
tion of any patent licensing proposals at
this time. They also concluded that the
legislation I recommend today will help
counter the loss of public confidence by
improving the reliability of patents that
are issued.
CONCLUSION
Benjamin Franklin, a famous inventor
as well as a statesman, reflected once that
he wished it his destiny "to be born two
or three centuries hence" so that he could
828
