Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 7 [323]
In speaking to you tonight in terms as
direct as these, my concern has been to
lay before you the full facts of the Nation's
energy shortage. It is important that each
of us understands what the situation is
and how the efforts we together can take
to help to meet it are essential to our total
effort.
No people in the world perform more
nobly than the American people when
called upon to unite in the service of their
country. I am supremely confident that
while the days and weeks ahead may be a
time of some hardship for many of us,
they will also be a time of renewed com-
mitment and concentration to the na-
tional interest.
We have an energy crisis, but there is no
crisis of the American spirit. Let us go
forward, then, doing what needs to be
done, proud of what we have accom-
plished together in the past and confident
of what we can accomplish together in the
future.
Let us find in this time of national ne-
cessity a renewed awareness of our capaci-
ties as a people, a deeper sense of our re-
sponsibilities as a nation, and an increased
understanding that the measure and the
meaning of America has always been de-
termined by the devotion which each of
us brings to our duty as citizens of
America.
I should like to close with a personal
note.
It was just one year ago that I was
reelected as President of the United
States of America. During this past year
we have made great progress in achiev-
ing the goals that I set forth in my reelec-
tion campaign.
We have ended the longest war in
America's history. All of our prisoners of
war have been returned home. And for
the first time in 25 years, no young Ameri-
cans are being drafted into the armed
services. We have made progress toward
our goal of a real prosperity, a prosperity
without war. The rate of unemployment is
down to 42 percent, which is the lowest
unemployment in peacetime that we have
had in 16 years, and we are finally be-
ginning to make progress in our fight
against the rise in the cost of living.
These are substantial achievements in
this year 1973. But I would be less than
candid if I were not to admit that this has
not been an easy year in some other re-
spects, as all of you are quite aware.
As a result of the deplorable Watergate
matter, great numbers of Americans have
had doubts raised as to the integrity of the
President of the United States. I have
even noted that some publications have
called on me to resign the Office of Presi-
dent of the United States.
Tonight I would like to give my an-
swer to those who have suggested that I
resign.
I have no intention whatever of walk-
ing away from the job I was elected to do.
As long as I am physically able, I am go-
ing to continue to work 16 to 18 hours a
day for the cause of a real peace abroad,
and for the cause of prosperity without in-
flation and without war at home. And in
the months ahead, I shall do everything
that I can to see that any doubts as to the
integrity of the man who occupies the
highest office in this land-to remove
those doubts where they exist.
And I am confident that in those
months ahead, the American people will
come to realize that I have not violated
921
