I Statement About the Death of Roberto Clemente.
January 2, 1973
EVERY sports fan admired and respected
Roberto Clemente as one of the greatest
baseball players of our time. In the tragedy
of his untimely death, we are reminded
that he deserved even greater respect and
admiration for his splendid qualities as a
generous and kind human being.
He sacrificed his life on a mission of
mercy. The best memorial we can build
to his memory is to contribute gener-
ously for the relief of those he was try-
ing to help the earthquake victims in
Nicaragua.
NOTE: Roberto Clemente, 38, an outfielder for
the Pittsburgh Pirates professional baseball
team since 1955, died in the crash of a cargo
plane off the coast of San Juan, P.R., on De-
2
cember 31, 1972. Mr. Clemente, as head of
Puerto Rican efforts to aid victims of the
Nicaraguan earthquake, was escorting relief
supplies to Managua at the time of the crash.
On January 3, 1973, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by
Pittsburgh Pirates president Dan Galbreath
and pitchers Dave Giusti and Steve Blass, on
their meeting with the President to discuss a
proposed Committee for a Roberto Clemente
Memorial Fund for Nicaraguan Earthquake
Victims.
On January 8, Anne L. Armstrong, Counsel-
lor to the President, while in Puerto Rico as
the President's personal representative to the
inauguration of Carlos Romero Barcelo as
mayor of San Juan, conveyed the President's
respects to Mr. Clemente's family.
See also Item 152.
Statement About the Final Report of the National
Commission on Consumer Finance.
PUBLICATION today of the final report
of the National Commission on Consumer
Finance is good news for all Americans.
I welcome this opportunity to express
my personal appreciation to the members
and staff of the Commission for their
painstaking work over the past 3 years
and to assure them that we will give the
closest attention to their findings and
recommendations.
In reviewing the state of consumer
finance, the Commission has been study-
ing something that lies close to the heart
of our great free enterprise system. It is the
wide availability of consumer credit which
permits consumers to finance major pur-
chases out of current income and thus
enables our industries to develop and
offer many more products than they could
otherwise.
January 3, 1973
What this has added up to, of course, is
what we call the American way of life-
the highest standard of living that any
society has ever produced.
It is, therefore, vital to ensure that our
consumer finance system continues to pro-
vide consumers with adequate credit at
reasonable rates. The Commission's de-
tailed research and comprehensive report
should help us to determine whether our
system is fully adequate for this purpose
and how we might strengthen it in the
future.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Consumer Credit
in the United States-Report of the National
Commission on Consumer Finance, December
1972" (Government Printing Office, 216 pp.).
I
