Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 22 [236]
only miss him, in terms of his official serv-
ice, but I shall particularly miss him be-
cause of his having been, through the
years, a very close personal friend and
adviser.
That personal friendship and advice,
however, I hope still to have the benefit
of, and I know that I will.
As his successor, I shall nominate and
send to the Senate for confirmation the
name of Dr. Henry Kissinger. Dr. Kis-
singer will become Secretary of State, as-
sume the duties of the office after he is
confirmed by the Senate. I trust the Sen-
ate will move expeditiously on the con-
firmation hearings, because there are a
number of matters of very great impor-
tance that are coming up.
There are, for example, some matters
that might even involve some foreign
travel by Dr. Kissinger that will have to be
delayed in the event that the Senate hear-
ings are delayed.
Dr. Kissinger's qualifications for this
post, I think, are well known by all of you
ladies and gentlemen, as well as those
looking to us and listening to us on tele-
vision and radio.
He will retain the position, after he be-
comes Secretary of State, of Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs. In other words, he will have some-
what a parallel relationship to the White
House which George Shultz has. George
Shultz, as you know, is Secretary of
the Treasury, but is also an Assistant to
the President in the field of economic
affairs.
The purpose of this arrangement is to
have a closer coordination between the
White House and the departments, and
in this case, between the White House,
the national security affairs, the NSC,
and the State Department, which car-
ries a major load in this area.
And also, another purpose is to get the
work out in the departments where it
belongs, and I believe that this change in
this respect, with Dr. Kissinger moving
in as Secretary of State and still retain-
ing the position as Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, will
serve the interest not only of coordina-
tion but also of the interests of an effec-
tive foreign policy.
I will simply say, finally, with regard to
Secretary Rogers, that he can look back
on what I think, and I suppose it is a self-
serving statement but I will say it about
him rather than about myself at the mo-
ment, one of the most successful eras of
foreign policy in any administration in
history-an era in which we ended a war,
the longest war in America's history; an
era, in addition, in which we began to
build a structure of peace, particularly
involving the two great powers, the
People's Republic of China and the Soviet
Union, where before there had been
nothing but ugly and, at some times, very,
very difficult confrontation.
We still have a long way to go. There
are trouble spots in the area of the Mid-
east, others-Southeast Asia, which we
could go into in detail.
But as Secretary Rogers looks back on
his years—4½ years of service as Secre-
tary of State-he can be very proud that
he was one of the major architects of what
I think was a very successful foreign
policy.
QUESTIONS
RECORDING OF PRESIDENTIAL
CONVERSATIONS
[2] And now, we will go to the ques-
tions. I think AP, Miss Lewine [Frances
711
