[289] Oct. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
which opened a new level of understanding
of the subtle mechanisms that integrate the
chemical life of the cell while offering hope
of entirely new approaches to chemotherapy.
DANIEL I. ARNON-For fundamental research
into the mechanism of green plant utilization
of light to produce chemical energy and oxy-
gen and for contributions to our understand-
ing of plant nutrition.
HAROLD E. EDGERTON-For his vision and crea-
tivity in pioneering the field of stroboscopic
photography and for his many inventions of
instruments for exploring the great depths of
the oceans.
RICHARD T. WHITCOMB-For his discoveries
and inventions in aerodynamics which have
provided and will continue to provide sub-
stantial improvements in the speed, range
and payload of a major portion of the high-
performance aircraft produced throughout
the country.
JOHN WILDER TUKEY-For his studies in
mathematical and theoretical statistics, par-
ticularly his pioneering work on broad analy-
sis and synthesis problems of complex sys-
tems, and for his outstanding contributions
to the applications of statistics to the physical,
social, and engineering sciences.
CARL DJERASSI-In recognition of his major
contributions to the elucidation of the com-
plex chemistry of the steroid hormones and
to the application of these compounds to
medicinal chemistry and population control
by means of oral contraceptives.
WILLIAM MAURICE EWING-For extending and
improving the methods of geology and geo-
physics to study the ocean floor and to under-
stand the last remaining unexplored province
of the solid earth-that which lies under the
sea.
VLADIMIR HAENSEL-For his outstanding re-
search in the catalytic reforming of hydro-
carbons which has greatly enhanced the
economic value of our petroleum natural
resources.
FREDERICK SEITZ-For his pioneering contribu-
tions to the foundations of the modern
quantum theory of the solid state of matter,
and to the understanding of many phenom-
ena and processes that occur in solids.
ARIE JAN HAAGEN-SMIT-For his unique con-
tributions to the discovery of the chemical
nature and source of smog, and for the suc-
cessful efforts which he has carried through
for smog abatement.
ROBERT RATHBUN WILSON-For unusual in-
genuity in designing experiments to explore
the fundamental particles of matter and in
designing and constructing the machines to
produce the particles, culminating in the
world's most powerful particle accelerator.
After the presentation of the medals by the
President, he resumed speaking as follows:]
Well, ladies and gentlemen, that com-
pletes the ceremony, and we want all of
you to enjoy, if you have the time, some
coffee and refreshments in the State Din-
ing Room, and we again congratulate the
winners and members of their family who
are here, some of whom we had a chance
to meet earlier.
This is, it seems to me, a very great day
in a sense for them in a personal way, but
it is also a very splendid day for the United
States when we see these men who have
contributed so much to a goal that all
Americans so deeply feel, of using the
great talents that we can develop in the
field of science for peace rather than war.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:55 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
The National Medal of Science was estab-
lished in 1959 by act of Congress (73 Stat.
431) "to provide recognition for individuals
who make outstanding contributions in the
physical, biological, mathematical, and engi-
neering sciences." Awards are based on recom-
mendations of the President's Committee on
the National Medal of Science.
860
