Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 5 [3]
the Counsellors will routinely report to me
via the appropriate Assistant to the Presi-
dent, but will continue to work directly
with me on important policy matters.
Here let me state my opinion that the II
men whom I have chosen as department
heads in the new Cabinet are one of the
strongest executive combinations ever put
together here in Washington, in terms of
management ability, personal integrity,
and commitment to public service. Each
has been selected and has accepted his
selection on a basis of complete mutual
trust, and of firm conviction that the ar-
rangements announced today will serve
every Secretary's own interest as well as
the public interest, by enabling all the
Secretaries to do a better job. I look for-
ward to working closely with all of them
during the next 4 years.
The Cabinet as a whole will continue
to function as it has done during the past
4 years. The major Cabinet-level work will
be done in constituent bodies including
the National Security Council, Domestic
Council, Council on Economic Policy, and
Council on International Economic
Policy. The non-Cabinet Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers and Council on Environ-
mental Quality will continue to carry out
the advisory functions prescribed for them
by statute.
The non-regulatory independent agen-
cies and offices will, in a few cases, con-
tinue to report directly to me, but most
will hereafter report to me through the
appropriate Counsellor or Assistant, de-
pending upon the degree of the President's
statutory responsibility and authority for
their operations. The regulatory agencies
will hereafter communicate with my office
through the Counsel to the President, as
appropriate.
STREAMLINING THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE
OF THE PRESIDENT
Counsellors Butz, Weinberger, and
Lynn, with the support of the committees
which they will head, will be able to pro-
vide much of the advice and supervision
for which Presidents in the past have had
to turn to domestic policy establishments
within the White House. The Counsellors
will also be able to resolve with their col-
leagues at the Secretarial level many
interdepartmental issues which have here-
tofore required arbitration by the Presi-
dent or his staff.
One consequence is that the staff of the
Domestic Council can be cut back by
about 55 percent from 66 people at
present to 30 people when the new
Cabinet/Staff structure is in place. But
the Domestic Council is only one part of
a large, disparate aggregation of entities
that makes up what is called the Execu-
tive Office of the President (EOP).
The EOP was created in 1939 to give
the President immediate staff assistance
and direct control over the management
and budget functions of the Government.
From an original base of four organiza-
tions and 570 people, it has mushroomed
more than sevenfold in employment over
the past 33 years, as successive Congresses
and Presidents have created new ad hoc
problemsolving entities under the Chief
Executive's immediate control rather than
come to grips with the more fundamental
need to revitalize the bureaucracy
itself as an effective problemsolving
instrument.
In order to spur such a revitalization,
and to disengage the Executive Office of
the President from operational activity so
that the President can devote his time and
5
