[145] May 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
145 Message to the Senate Transmitting Six Amendments
to the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea.
May 9, 1973
To the Senate of the United States:
I herewith transmit for the advice and
consent of the Senate six amendments to
the Convention for the Safety of Life at
Sea, 1960.
These amendments were adopted at
London on October 12, 1971 by the As-
sembly of the Inter-governmental Mari-
time Consultative Organization (IMCO)
and are the outcome of recommendations
of the Maritime Safety Committee of
IMCO directed toward improvement of
safety of navigation. The regulations as
amended would provide for improved
radio-telephone watch procedures, more
modern radio-telephonic devices, and
more detailed procedures for operation
of such devices. In addition, the inser-
tion of a new regulation on routing speci-
fies an increased role for IMCO in estab-
lishing and coordinating routes and in-
creased enforcement responsibility for the
contracting governments.
For the information of the Senate, I am
also transmitting the report of the De-
partment of State with respect to the
amendments.
I recommend that the Senate give
swift and favorable consideration to all
of these amendments.
The White House,
May 9, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the amendments to the
convention and accompanying papers are
printed in Senate Executive I (93d Cong., 1st
sess.).
146 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the United States Civil Service Commission.
May 9, 1973
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit the Civil Service
Commission's annual report for fiscal
year 1972.
The past year was one of significant
initiatives in the field of Federal person-
nel management. Persistent challenges
such as simplifying the complexities of the
appeals system and broadening the scope
of labor-management bargaining were ef-
fectively addressed. The first full year of
operations under the Intergovernmental
Personnel Act showed impressive results,
as State and local governments responded
enthusiastically in working with Federal
agencies to improve personnel resources.
Substantial progress was also made in
carrying out the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Act of 1972, strengthening our
commitment to employment practices
which are scrupulously fair to all our
people.
We can be grateful for the cooperation
from all sectors and levels of government
which made this record possible. And we
can be proud that Federal personnel man-
522
