Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 19 [303]
Our actions there have reflected my belief
that we must take those steps which are
necessary for maintaining a balance of
military capabilities and achieving stabil-
ity in the area. The request I am sub-
mitting today would give us the essential
flexibility to continue meeting those
responsibilities.
To maintain a balance of forces and
thus achieve stability, the United States
Government is currently providing mili-
tary material to Israel to replace combat
losses. This is necessary to prevent the
emergence of a substantial imbalance re-
sulting from a large-scale resupply of
Syria and Egypt by the Soviet Union.
The costs of replacing consumables and
lost equipment for the Israeli Armed
Forces have been extremely high. Combat
activity has been intense, and losses on
both sides have been large. During the
first 12 days of the conflict, the United
States has authorized shipments to Israel
of material costing $825 million, includ-
ing transportation.
Major items now being furnished by the
United States to the Israeli forces include
conventional munitions of many types,
air-to-air and air-to-ground missiles, artil-
lery, crew-served and individual weapons,
and a standard range of fighter aircraft
ordnance. Additionally, the United States
is providing replacements for tanks, air-
craft, radios, and other military equip-
ment which have been lost in action.
Thus far, Israel has attempted to obtain
the necessary equipment through the use
of cash and credit purchases. However,
the magnitude of the current conflict
coupled with the scale of Soviet supply
activities has created needs which exceed
Israel's capacity to continue with cash
and credit purchases. The alternative to
cash and credit sales of United States mili-
tary materials is for us to provide Israel
with grant military assistance as well.
The United States is making every ef-
fort to bring this conflict to a very swift
and honorable conclusion, measured in
days not weeks. But prudent planning also
requires us to prepare for a longer
struggle. I am therefore requesting that
the Congress approve emergency assist-
ance to Israel in the amount of $2.2 bil-
lion. If the conflict moderates, or as we
fervently hope, is brought to an end very
quickly, funds not absolutely required
would of course not be expended.
I am also requesting $200 million emer-
gency assistance for Cambodia. As in the
case of Israel, additional funds are ur-
gently needed for ammunition and con-
sumable military supplies. The increased
requirement results from the larger scale
of hostilities and the higher levels of ord-
nance required by the Cambodian Army
and Air Force to defend themselves with-
out American air support.
The end of United States bombing on
August 15 was followed by increased
communist activity in Cambodia. In the
ensuing fight, the Cambodian forces ac-
quitted themselves well. They success-
fully defended the capital of Phnom Penh
and the provincial center of Kampong
Cham, as well as the principal supply
routes. Although this more intense level
of fighting has tapered off somewhat dur-
ing the current rainy season, it is virtually
certain to resume when the dry season
begins about the end of the year.
During the period of heaviest fighting
in August and September, ammunition
costs for the Cambodian forces were run-
ning almost $1 million per day. We
anticipate similar average costs for the re-
885
