Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 15 [330]
not even our Canadian friends—they are
pretty tough on us at times, too, you
know, when they are looking down our
throats, and I understand it, and we do
not complain about it, because that is the
way the business world works, but the
point that I make is this:
The United States of America is a great
nation. No great nation must ever be in
the position where it is dependent on any
other nation, friend or foe, for its energy.
That does not mean that we will not con-
tinue to desire the oil of the Mideast, and
try to develop the gas resources, perhaps,
in Siberia, and work with our friends in
Canada and Latin America, and so forth,
for trade and all that kind of thing. But
it does mean that the United States must
be independent in this area, and we can
be, and we can be by 1980, and I will tell
you how.
First, coal. We have half the coal re-
sources of the world in the United States.
We have got to find better ways to bring
it out of the ground without destroying
the environment-John Whitaker,2 I am
sure, has addressed you with regard to
land use and that sort of subject, and I
could have more to say, but time will not
permit—but that can and will be done.
And second, we must find ways to make
coal a cleaner fuel, and through a process
that we are now going through of maxi-
mum research, we are finding ways where
coal can be made a cleaner fuel through
degasification and the like. And so coal
is one of our potentials to make us self-
sufficient in energy.
A second area is natural gas. Here we
run right counter to great political forces,
which I well understand. In order to get
more natural gas, which is the cleanest
2 John C. Whitaker was Under Secretary of
the Interior.
fuel we could possibly have, or a very clean
fuel, I should say, because nuclear power
is probably cleaner than natural gas, but
in order to get more natural gas, the old
law of supply and demand works. And at
the present time, the price for natural gas
is held so artificially low that wells that
could produce it and wells that could be
drilled anew to produce it are not produc-
ing it and are not being drilled.
Now, we need the gas. In order to get
it, we have got to deregulate so that the
price can go up, not a price where
the American consumer pays an exorbi-
tant price, because as that supply goes up
that demand, of course, will also eat it up,
and eventually the price situation will, I
think, take care of itself. But it doesn't
make any sense to keep the gas in the
ground at a time that people in New Eng-
land are going around cold because they
don't have the fuel they need. We have
got to get it out of the ground, and that is
why the deregulation of natural gas is
important. And I would hope that the
Congress, after due consideration of all
the price factors and the rest, will act ex-
peditiously now on this particular matter.
The third area-there are others that
could be mentioned-is nuclear power.
And here, as educators of your country—
and I know that real estate people are
educators to an extent. You spend long
days in which you never make a sale. You
spend long days when people come in
there and put their feet up on the desk
and they waste your time and talk about
things, but that is a time to do some edu-
cating, and I want to tell you what I think
you can do in this particular area.
In the field of nuclear power, there is
a fear syndrome in the United States. Be-
cause nuclear power created the greatest
destructive force the world has ever
939
