[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
serves the interest of all European
countries.
-In the Middle East, the United States
and the Soviet Union, separately and
perhaps together, can also make a
contribution to peace. Each of us
plays a different role and has differ-
ent interests and conceptions. But
we have a common interest in avert-
ing confrontation. Proceeding from
this principle, we can both exert our
influence in the direction of a peace-
ful settlement among the parties
directly concerned.
-In bilateral relations we can build on
the progress already achieved at the
summit. Though less dramatic than
the larger political issues, harnessing
our technological expertise and crea-
tivity in the service of both our peo-
ples can produce lasting benefits for
all.
-We have an opportunity and obliga-
tion to convert the promise of our
agreements on economic relations
into reality. We are discovering areas
where the American and Soviet econ-
omies are complementary. The Soviet
Union has certain resources that meet
our needs, while we can export com-
modities and products which the So-
viet Union wishes to import.
A year ago, I reported that a new mo-
mentum had been given to efforts for
achieving a more constructive relation-
ship with the Soviet Union. I believe that
this momentum has carried us across a
new threshold.
We are now in a new period, but we
have only witnessed its initial phase. It is
only realistic to recognize that there have
been periods of relaxed tensions before,
and earlier hopes for a permanent end to
the hostilities of the Cold War. Present
trends of course can be reversed; new
factors will appear; attitudes can shift.
This may be particularly true in a period
of transition.
In the past, changes in our relations
with the Soviet Union proved episodic,
in part because they reflected tactical
motives or were limited to changes in cli-
mate rather than substance. What we
created at the summit last year is more
durable. It rests on solid, specific achieve-
ments that engage the interests of both
sides. But it will take patience, hard work,
and perseverance to translate our broad
understandings into concrete results. If
we can do this, the United States and the
Soviet Union can move from coexistence
to broad cooperation and make an un-
paralleled contribution to world peace.
PART II: ENDING CONFLICT
-Vietnam
-Laos and Cambodia
VIETNAM
On January 27, 1973, when the United
States and the three Vietnamese parties
signed "The Agreement on Ending the
War and Restoring Peace In Vietnam,"
we completed one of the most difficult
chapters in our history. It was an honor-
able ending to a long and costly effort.
Peace in Indochina is not yet solid or
comprehensive. But four years of inten-
sive negotiations and the steady transfer
of responsibilities to our friends achieved
the fundamental goals we had set. As a
result of the Agreement:
-Our military forces have left South
Vietnam with honor.
376
