Richard Nixon, 1973
Sept. 28 [277]
ies in the U.S. fisheries zone and in the
high seas beyond that zone.
Of the non-living or mineral resources
of the seabed, petroleum from our con-
tinental shelves will be the most important
to the Nation for some years to come. I
have directed the Secretary of the Interior
to continue to accelerate the leasing of
Outer Continental Shelf lands for oil and
gas production to a level triple the present
annual acreage rate by 1979, as long as
such development can proceed with ade-
quate protection of the environment and
under conditions consistent with my
Oceans Policy statement of May 1970.
We are also seeking agreement with
other nations on a suitable means for de-
veloping mineral resources beyond the
limits of national jurisdiction.
MANAGING OUR MARINE RESOURCES
Our efforts to improve the means by
which we extract resources from the sea
must be accompanied by efforts to ensure
that those resources are managed properly
to protect their continued abundance. In
America, as in other nations, there is a
deepening concern for the marine envi-
ronment and the welfare of its associated
plant and animal life. There is also a
grow-
ing worldwide recognition that the wel-
fare of the ocean resources is of interna-
tional concern. This concern has been
manifested in the establishment of the
United Nations Environment Program
and Fund following the Conference on
the Human Environment at Stockholm
and in the recent Convention on Interna-
tional Trade and Endangered Wild Spe-
cies of Fauna and Flora. The Marine
Mammals Act of 1972, which will help in
the preservation of porpoises, seals, whales
and other mammals which inhabit the
seas and shores, is another significant step
in this effort. So is my proposed Endan-
gered Species Conservation Act, which
would permit protective measures to be
undertaken before a species is so depleted
that its recovery is difficult or impossible.
The need for proper management of
our coastal areas is inextricably linked
with the need for proper management of
our marine resources. Much of our popu-
lation is concentrated on the relatively
narrow band of our national coastal zone.
The problems of urban development and
land transportation within this zone, as
well as the impact of ocean vessels of
mammoth tonnage, demand serious con-
sideration of our entire coastal transporta-
tion complex-including deepwater ports
and off-shore terminals. Recently pro-
posed legislation for the licensing of deep-
water ports is another key element in our
effort to anticipate and resolve this
problem.
I believe that coastal zone management
must be part of a program for the
for the proper
management of all our national lands. For
this reason, my legislative program for
this
year includes again my recommenda-
tion for a major National Land Use Policy
Act, a bill which would place special em-
phasis on the problems of our coastal
zone.
I have further requested that the Sen-
ate give its consent to the Convention on
the Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter,
adopted in November 1972 by the United
States and 91 other nations. I have pro-
posed amendments to our ocean dumping
legislation fully to implement the Conven-
tion and I am proposing legislation to
carry out other international agreements
833
