[51] Feb. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
ers. We will continue the dialog with the
People's Republic of China. And, in this
year ahead, we will renew discussions that
we have been having in the past with our
friends in Europe and in other parts of
the world, because as we talk to those who
have been our adversaries in the past, we
must not overlook the vital necessity of
strengthening the bonds we have with our
allies and our friends around the world.
But as we conduct those discussions, I
would urge upon this legislative body what
I have often urged upon the Congress of
the United States: Let us be sure that as
the President of the United States and
his representatives negotiate with great
powers in the world, let us be sure that he
never goes to the negotiating table rep-
resenting the second strongest nation in
the world.
Because America is strong and has been
strong, we have been able to negotiate
successfully. We must maintain our
strength and, of course, we will reduce it,
but it must be on a mutual basis and not
on a unilateral basis, because reducing
unilaterally would remove any incentive
for others in the world to reduce their
strength at the same time.
Having spoken of military strength, let
me also speak briefly of other kinds of
strength that we need if we are going to
build a world of peace and if America is
going to continue the great role that we
are destined to play as we near our 200th
birthday as a nation.
It is essential that government-and
here in this legislative chamber all of us
are participants in the role of govern-
ment-it is essential that government in
America be strengthened in terms of being
more responsive to the people.
By that I mean that government must
get closer to the grassroots, and by get-
ting closer to the grassroots, what I am
very simply suggesting is this: For much
too long, power has been flowing from the
people, from the cities, from the counties,
from the States to Washington, D.C. And
that is why, beginning with an historic
move on revenue sharing, and in other
areas,
I feel firmly we must turn it around
and that power should flow away from the
concentration in Washington back to the
States and the people. That is where it
belongs, and that is where it is staying.
Let us also remember that if America is
to play the kind of a role that it must
play and we want it to play, we need to be
a united country. By being a united coun-
try, that doesn't mean that we agree on
everything. It means that we have dis-
agreements between parties, disagree-
ments on a number of issues. That is the
very essence of a free society.
But let the time be gone when this
country is divided region against region,
North versus South, race against race,
black versus white, one economic group
against another, labor versus manage-
ment, simply because they are members
of different groups. Let the time be gone
when we divide Americans by age, the old
against the young-in terms of what they
produce the city against the farm.
It does not mean that we all have the
same interest. It does not mean that we
do not have areas where we disagree. But
what it does mean is that this Nation,
when the great issues are involved—the
security of America, the honor of Amer-
ica-let us speak of those issues and speak
to those issues as one united people.
In that connection, as I speak for the
first time as President of the United States
to a legislature in the South, one of the
112
