Richard Nixon, 1973
Apr. 30 [134]
top must bear the responsibility. That re-
sponsibility, therefore, belongs here, in this
office. I accept it. And I pledge to you
tonight, from this office, that I will do
everything in my power to ensure that the
guilty are brought to justice and that such
abuses are purged from our political proc-
esses in the years to come, long after I have
left this office.
Some people, quite properly appalled
at the abuses that occurred, will say that
Watergate demonstrates the bankruptcy
of the American political system. I be-
lieve precisely the opposite is true. Water-
gate represented a series of illegal acts
and bad judgments by a number of indi-
viduals. It was the system that has
brought the facts to light and that will
bring those guilty to justice—a system that
in this case has included a determined
grand jury, honest prosecutors, a coura-
geous judge, John Sirica, and a vigorous
free press.
It is essential now that we place our
faith in that system-and especially in
the judicial system. It is essential that
we let the judicial process go forward,
respecting those safeguards that are es-
tablished to protect the innocent as well
as to convict the guilty. It is essential that
in reacting to the excesses of others, we
not fall into excesses ourselves.
It is also essential that we not be so
distracted by events such as this that we
neglect the vital work before us, before
this Nation, before America, at a time of
critical importance to America and the
world.
Since March, when I first learned that
the Watergate affair might in fact be
far more serious than I had been led to
believe, it has claimed far too much of my
time and my attention.
Whatever may now transpire in the
case, whatever the actions of the grand
jury, whatever the outcome of any
eventual trials, I must now turn my full
attention-and I shall do so once again
to the larger duties of this office. I owe
it to this great office that I hold, and I
owe it to you to my country.
I know that as Attorney General, Elliot
Richardson will be both fair and he will
be fearless in pursuing this case wherever
it leads. I am confident that with him in
charge, justice will be done.
There is vital work to be done toward
our goal of a lasting structure of peace
in the world-work that cannot wait,
work that I must do.
Tomorrow, for example, Chancellor
Brandt of West Germany will visit the
White House for talks that are a vital
element of "The Year of Europe," as
1973 has been called. We are already pre-
paring for the next Soviet-American
summit meeting later this year.
This is also a year in which we are
seeking to negotiate a mutual and bal-
anced reduction of armed forces in
Europe, which will reduce our defense
budget and allow us to have funds for
other purposes at home so desperately
needed. It is the year when the United
States and Soviet negotiators will seek to
work out the second and even more im-
portant round of our talks on limiting
nuclear arms and of reducing the danger
of a nuclear war that would destroy
civilization as we know it. It is a year in
which we confront the difficult tasks of
maintaining peace in Southeast Asia and
in the potentially explosive Middle East.
There is also vital work to be done right
here in America: to ensure prosperity,
and that means a good job for everyone
who wants to work; to control inflation,
that I know worries every housewife,
331
