[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE CHALLENGE OF CHANGE
Over the past year, this Administration
has repeatedly emphasized the import-
ance of bringing about a more equitable
and open world trading system. We have
encouraged other nations to join in ne-
gotiations to achieve this goal. The decla-
ration of European leaders at their summit
meeting last October demonstrates their
dedication to the success of this effort.
Japan, Canada and other nations share
this dedication.
The momentum is there. Now we-in
this country-must seize the moment if
that momentum is to be sustained.
When the history of our time is written,
this era will surely be described as one of
profound change. That change has been
particularly dramatic in the international
economic arena.
The magnitude and pace of economic
change confronts us today with policy
questions of immense and immediate sig-
nificance. Change can mean increased dis-
ruption and suffering, or it can mean
increased well-being. It can bring new
forms of deprivation and discrimination,
or it can bring wider sharing of the bene-
fits of progress. It can mean conflict be-
tween men and nations, or it can mean
growing opportunities for fair and peace-
ful competition in which all parties can
ultimately gain.
My proposed Trade Reform Act of 1973
is designed to ensure that the inevitable
changes of our time are beneficial
changes--for our people and for people
everywhere.
I urge the Congress to enact these pro-
posals, so that we can help move our
country and our world away from trade
confrontation and toward trade negotia-
tion, away from a period in which trade
has been a source of international and
domestic friction and into a new era in
which trade among nations helps us to
build a peaceful, more prosperous world.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House,
April 10, 1973-
NOTE: On the same day, the President met with
the bipartisan leadership of the Congress to
discuss the message.
The White House also released a fact sheet
on the proposed trade reform legislation and
the transcript of a news briefing on the message
by George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treas-
ury, and Peter M. Flanigan, Assistant to the
President and Executive Director of the Council
on International Economic Policy.
113 Statement About House Action Sustaining the Veto
of the Rural Water and Sewer Grant Program Bill.
April 10, 1973
IN SUSTAINING my veto of H.R.
3298, the rural water and sewer program,
the House of Representatives has con-
vincingly demonstrated that it, too, has
the courage and determination to take a
firm stand in favor of the American con-
sumer and taxpayer. This is responsive
government at its very best.
The 189 Members of the House who
voted to sustain my veto today have now
joined the 36 Senators who voted last
week to sustain my first veto of the year to
prove that working together, we can hold
the line against wasteful, inflationary Fed-
eral spending.
On behalf of the American people, I
270
