Richard Nixon, 1973
Dec. 19 [364]
required to increase supply, and oil pro-
ducers could reap unanticipated "wind-
fall" profits.
EMERGENCY WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
I want to assure all Americans that
there will be no windfall profits at their
expense. When the Congress reconvenes in
January, I will ask it to enact an emer-
gency windfall profits tax. The specific
details of this proposal will be provided
today by the Treasury Department. Over
the holidays, the Treasury Department
will continue to work with Congressional
staffs so that this proposal and related
materials will be ready for consideration
by the Congress after the holiday recess.
The emergency windfall profits tax I
will propose would apply at rates gradu-
ated up to 85 percent on the sale by any
domestic producer of crude oil at prices
higher than the ceiling price of the Cost
of Living Council on December 1.
This special emergency tax will prevent
future windfalls to producers and will
make up, in some degree, for those which
may have already occurred.
At the same time, the tax is carefully
designed to avoid completely depriving
producers of a legitimate return on the
major investments they will have to make
in order to produce the additional supply
we need. It would be self-defeating to tax
away the oil producers' incentive and abil-
ity to help meet our energy shortage.
The emergency windfall profits tax
must be a temporary tax. This is an essen-
tial part of my recommendation to the
Congress. The tax is intended only to
serve the immediate objective of prevent-
ing windfall profits to oil producers while
other economic factors are at work to in-
crease supply and eliminate the shortage
in crude oil. As prices return to the long-
run supply level and as the potential for
windfall profits disappears, a continuation
of the tax would result in higher prices for
consumers, with no concomitant increase
in oil supplies.
I am not today making any recommen-
dation to the Congress for using revenues
derived from the emergency windfall
profits tax. That will naturally be a part
of the Congress' deliberations. There are
a number of possibilities for use of these
revenues. One would be to place those rev-
enues in an Energy Development Trust
Fund which would act as a bank for the
financing of a wide range of energy devel-
opment and conservation projects which
might not otherwise be feasible. Another
possibility would be to refund all or part
of the tax to the oil producer if he invests
his profits in additional energy-producing
efforts.
These and all other possibilities for in-
creasing our energy production at a faster
pace, as well as for minimizing any in-
equities resulting from the present short-
age, are being given the most careful
study. The steps which I am announcing
today are not the entire answer to our
energy needs, but they will contribute
significantly to the overall solution.
We must be more creative in conserving
our vital natural resources, and we must
do more to develop those resources. As
we take these steps, every American must
be assured that others will not profit at his
expense. My recommendation to the Con-
gress for an emergency windfall profits
tax is designed to give that assurance.
1019
