[112] Apr. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
exports have moved forward on many
fronts. We have made our exports more
competitive by realigning exchange rates.
Since 1971, our new law permitting the
establishment of Domestic International
Sales Corporations has been helping
American companies organize their export
activities more effectively. The lending,
guaranty and insurance authorities of the
Export-Import Bank have been increased
and operations have been extended to in-
clude a short-term discount loan facility.
The Department of Commerce has reor-
ganized its facilities for promoting exports
and has expanded its services for export-
ers. The Department of State, in coopera-
tion with the Department of Commerce, is
giving increased emphasis to commercial
service programs in our missions abroad.
In addition, I am today submitting
separate legislation which would amend
the Export Trade Act in order to clarify
the legal framework in which associations
of exporters can function. One amend-
ment would make it clear that the act ap-
plies not only to the export of goods but
also to certain kinds of services-architec-
ture, construction, engineering, training
and management consulting, for example.
Another amendment would clarify the
exemption of export associations from our
domestic antitrust laws, while setting up
clear information, disclosure and regula-
tory requirements to ensure that the public
interest is fully protected.
In an era when more countries are seek-
ing foreign contracts for entire industrial
projects--including steps ranging from
engineering studies through the supply of
equipment and the construction of
plants-it is essential that our laws con-
cerning joint export activities allow us to
meet our foreign competition on a fair and
equal basis.
THE GROWTH OF INTERNATIONAL
INVESTMENT
The rapid growth of international in-
vestment in recent years has raised new
questions and new challenges for busi-
nesses and governments. In our own coun-
try, for example, some people have feared
that American investment abroad will re-
sult in a loss of American jobs. Our studies
show, however, that such investment on
balance has meant more and better jobs
for American workers, has improved our
balance of trade and our overall balance
of payments, and has generally strength-
ened our economy. Moreover, I strongly
believe that an open system for interna-
tional investment, one which eliminates
artificial incentives or impediments here
and abroad, offers great promise for im-
proved prosperity throughout the world.
It may well be that new rules and new
mechanisms will be needed for interna-
tional investment activities. It will take
time, however, to develop them. And it
is important that they be developed as
much as possible on an international scale.
If we restrict the ability of American
firms to take advantage of investment op-
portunities abroad, we can only expect
that foreign firms will seize these oppor-
tunities and prosper at our expense.
I therefore urge the Congress to refrain
from enacting broad new changes in our
laws governing direct foreign investment
until we see what possibilities for multi-
lateral agreements emerge.
It is in this context that we must also
shape our system for taxing the foreign
profits of American business. Our exist-
ing system permits American-controlled
businesses in foreign countries to operate
under the same tax burdens which apply
to its foreign competitors in that country.
268
