[296] Oct. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
the lives of his comrades, Gunnery Sergeant
Kellogg reflected the highest credit upon him-
self and upheld the finest traditions of the Ma-
rine Corps and the United States Naval Service.
RICHARD NIXON
The President of the United States of Amer-
ica, authorized by Act of Congress, March 3,
1863, has awarded in the name of The Con-
gress, the Medal of Honor, to
LIEUTENANT COLONEL LEO K. THORSNESS
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in
action at the risk of his life above and beyond
the call of duty:
On 19 April 1967, as pilot of an F-105 air-
craft, Lieutenant Colonel (then Major)
Thorsness was on a surface-to-air missile sup-
pression mission over North Vietnam. On that
date, Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness and his
wingman attacked and silenced a surface-to-
air missile site with air-to-ground missiles, and
then destroyed a second surface-to-air missile
site with bombs. In the attack on the second
missile site, Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness'
wingman was shot down by intense antiaircraft
fire, and the two crew members abandoned their
aircraft. Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness circled
the descending parachutes to keep the crew
members in sight and relay their position to the
Search and Rescue Center. During this
maneuver, a MIG-17 was sighted in the area.
Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness immediately
initiated an attack and destroyed the MIG.
Because his aircraft was low on fuel, he was
forced to depart the area in search of a
tanker. Upon being advised that two heli-
copters were orbiting over the downed crew's
position and that there were hostile MIGs in
the area posing a serious threat to the heli-
copters, Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness, despite
his low fuel condition, decided to return alone
through a hostile environment of surface-to-air
missile and antiaircraft defenses to the downed
crew's position. As he approached the area, he
spotted four MIG-17 aircraft and immediately
initiated an attack on the MIGs, damaging one
and driving the others away from the rescue
scene. When it became apparent that an air-
craft in the area was critically low on fuel and
the crew would have to abandon the aircraft
unless they could reach a tanker, Lieutenant
Colonel Thorsness, although critically short on
fuel himself, helped to avert further possible
loss of life and a friendly aircraft by recovering
at a forward operating base, thus allowing the
aircraft in emergency fuel condition to refuel
safely. Lieutenant Colonel Thorsness' extraor
dinary heroism, self-sacrifice, and personal
bravery involving conspicuous risk of life were
in the highest traditions of the military service,
and have reflected great credit upon himself
and the United States Air Force.
RICHARD NIXON
The President then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, that completes
the ceremony, and we want all of you to
enjoy this White House. It belongs to you,
and today it is your home. You can spend
your time on this first floor in the historic
Red Room, in the Green Room, in the
Blue Room, and in the dining room there
are refreshments which will be there for
you and your friends to enjoy.
We congratulate you all again, and we
thank you from our hearts for your service
to the Nation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
876
