[185] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
shown a substantial increase, and that
there are favorable prospects for a con-
tinued rise in the exchange of goods over
the coming years.
They believe that the two countries
should aim at a total of 2-3 billion dollars
of trade over the next three years. The
Joint US-USSR Commercial Commission
continues to provide a valuable mecha-
nism to promote the broad-scale growth of
economic relations. The two Sides noted
with satisfaction that contacts between
American firms and their Soviet counter-
parts are continuing to expand.
Both sides confirmed their firm inten-
tion to proceed from their earlier under-
standing on measures directed at creating
more favorable conditions for expanding
commercial and other economic ties be-
tween the USA and the USSR.
It was noted that as a result of the
Agreement Regarding Certain Maritime
Matters signed in October 1972, Soviet
and American commercial ships have been
calling more frequently at ports of the
United States and the USSR, respectively,
and since late May of this year a new
regular passenger line has started oper-
ating between New York and Leningrad.
In the course of the current meeting,
the two Sides signed a Protocol augment-
ing existing civil air relations between the
USA and the USSR providing for direct
air services between Washington and Mos-
cow and New York and Leningrad, in-
creasing the frequency of flights and
resolving other questions in the field of
civil aviation."
In the context of reviewing prospects
for further and more permanent economic
'The text of the protocol is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 831). On June 23, 1973, the White
House released a fact sheet on the protocol.
cooperation, both Sides expressed them-
selves in favor of mutually advantageous
long term projects. They discussed a num-
ber of specific projects involving the par-
ticipation of American companies,
including the delivery of Siberian natural
gas to the United States. The President
indicated that the USA encourages
American firms to work out concrete pro-
posals on these projects and will give
serious and sympathetic consideration to
proposals that are in the interest of both
Sides.
To contribute to expanded commercial,
cultural and technical relations between
the USA and the USSR, the two Sides
signed a tax convention to avoid double
taxation on income and eliminate, as
much as possible, the need for citizens of
one country to become involved in the tax
system of the other.*
A Protocol was also signed on the open-
ing by the end of October 1973 of a Trade
Representation of the USSR in Wash-
ington and a Commercial Office of the
United States in Moscow. In addition a
Protocol was signed on questions related
to establishing a US-Soviet Chamber of
Commerce. These agreements will facili-
tate the further development of commer-
cial and economic ties between the USA
and the USSR.S
V. FURTHER PROGRESS IN OTHER FIELDS
OF BILATERAL COOPERATION
The two Sides reviewed the areas of
bilateral cooperation in such fields as envi-
The text of the convention is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 806).
'The texts of the protocols are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 9, p. 821).
616
