Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 20 [235]
recognizing that to make that decision is
a decision for international suicide. That
is what war has become.
There was, also looking to the future,
last year another trip, a trip to Peking,
the first time a President has gone there.
And as we look at Peking and we think
of the fact that 25 years from now these
young people sitting here will be as old as
we are, 25 years from now, one billion of
the ablest people in the world are going
to be living there, and because they are
able, they will be a super power if they
want to be, militarily and economically.
It is essential that the steps be taken
now to see to it that we build the struc-
ture of
peace so the United States will not
be in confrontation with the Soviet Union
or with the People's Republic of China.
And then there are other parts of this
great spectrum that a President must think
of. This is a year in which we are working
with our European allies and our friends
around the world, because-remember
this you don't win new friends by be-
traying old friends, because new friends.
are not going to trust you if you betray
your old friends. So, the United States is
maintaining its alliances, we are shoring
them up at the same time that we are
negotiating with those who are the po-
tential adversaries or were our potential
adversaries a short time ago.
I mention these things simply to give
you an idea of what we are trying to do to
be worthy of this Peace Award that Mrs.
Reid has so graciously presented on behalf
of the Ladies Auxiliary.
Peace, not just in the sense of ending a
long and difficult war, but peace in the
sense of a whole open world where people
with different philosophies can live to-
gether, discuss, negotiate, argue, but not
engage in war which would be totally de-
structive of civilization as we know it, at
this point. That is our goal.
Now, one final point I would make is
this: If that kind of peace is to be at-
tained, it will only be attained if the
United States plays the major role from
the standpoint of the free nations, be-
cause there is no one else to do it. The
Europeans can't do it. They don't have
the strength. And there is no nation in
Asia or Africa or Latin America that has
the strength to play that role.
And so, if we are going to be able to
negotiate this era of peace, we have to
have a United States that has a military
strength second to none. We have to have
a United States that is respected around
the world, respected because we stand by
our commitments. And we have to have
a United States that has the character and
the vision to play this great role and to
play it for many years to come, and that is
not easy.
My friends in the House and the Senate
will tell you today that many of their
colleagues, good and decent men-but, I
think, mistaken men and women-are
calling for huge cuts in our defense
budget, withdrawal of our forces from
Europe regardless of what the other side
does, cutting back on our nuclear capabil-
ities regardless of what the Soviet Union
does. My friends, let me tell you what
would happen.
Right now, we are negotiating with the
Soviet Union, for example, to limit nu-
clear arms. We are going to have in-as
a matter of fact, the negotiations begin
in October, in the latter part-we are
negotiating for a reduction of forces in
Europe, but unless in a negotiation you
have something to give, you are not going
to get anything.
And so I say, let the people of the
709
