[118] Apr. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
economy as a whole by helping make up
for wage losses which would otherwise cut
consumer purchasing power and accele-
rate business downturns.
But effective performance of both of
these functions depends on the provision
of benefits which are adequate in relation
to a worker's usual weekly wage. It is
generally accepted that unemployment
benefits are inadequate unless they are
equal to at least half what workers would
be earning if employed. Otherwise, fam-
ilies relying on the benefits will too often
be unable to meet their basic, nondefer-
rable living expenses, and communities
hit by unemployment will find that aggre-
gate benefits are too little to have a signifi-
cant counter-recessionary impact.
Under present Federal law, the setting
of formulas to determine minimum and
maximum benefit levels is largely the
province of the individual States. On
paper, most States do promise the un-
employed worker a benefit equal to one-
half his usual weekly wage. But many of
them also place unrealistically low ceilings
on maximum benefit amounts, rendering
the guarantee meaningless for a large per-
centage of workers, especially family
breadwinners. In fact, more than two-
fifths of all workers now covered by the
unemployment insurance system find
their benefits limited by State ceilings at a
level below the half-pay ostensibly guar-
anteed them.
In my July, 1969, unemployment insur-
ance reform proposals to the Congress, I
asked for action by the States themselves
to remedy this serious deficiency. I sug-
gested that the maximum benefit ceiling
in each State be raised to at least two-
thirds of the average wage of that State's
covered workers. The goal was to provide
at least four-fifths of the Nation's insured
work force half-pay or better when
unemployed.
While many States responded in part to
this request, only four States, whose work-
ers comprise less than 3 percent of the na-
tional covered work force, actually estab-
lished the standard I had recommended.
However, States comprising more
than three-fifths of the national covered
work force still have weekly benefit ceil-
ings that are less than half their average
weekly wage levels. Without denigrating
the good-faith efforts of numerous legis-
latures to liberalize the benefit structure,
we simply cannot be content with this
situation any longer. The time has come
for Federal action.
My proposed Job Security Assistance
Act would therefore amend the Federal
Unemployment Tax Act by adding a pro-
vision that every eligible insured worker,
when unemployed, must be paid a benefit
equal to at least 50 percent of his average
weekly wage, up to a State maximum
which shall be at least two-thirds of the
average weekly wage of covered workers
in the State.
The decentralization of our national
unemployment insurance system is one
of its greatest strengths. This decen-
tralization permits more flexible adjust-
ment to local needs and circumstances,
and I believe that it should be preserved. I
also believe, however, that the States have
a responsibility to adhere to the basic
principles of the system, and that it is up
to the Federal Government to furnish such
standards and guidelines as may be neces-
sary to protect those principles. That is
why I am now submitting to the Congress
the same benefit reform recommendation
that I urged the States to adopt in 1969.
Estimates indicate that this new re-
quirement would result in an average
in-
282
