Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 1 [62]
for her country; we are proud of the fact
that she began in our country. We also are
aware of the fact that she has played a
great role in the past and will play a great
role in the years to come, not only in the
future of her country but of the Mideast
and, therefore, of the world.
I was reading a little background be-
fore this evening's dinner, and a statement
by Ben-Gurion about our distinguished
guest tonight in which he said that history
will record that, thanks to a Jewish wom-
an, the Jewish State came into existence.
And that is an enormous compliment to
one who had contributed as much as he
had to the creation of and the initiation of
the State of Israel.
We don't need to go into that back-
ground with this company. I will simply
say that as we look at the problems today,
and as we look at what our distinguished
guest has accomplished through the years,
we can have hope as to the future.
All of us remember that when Israel be-
came independent, there were those who
said it was impossible. All of us remember
that after Israel became independent,
there were those who said it was impossible
that they could defend that independence
surrounded as they were by implacable
enemies. And now today it is said that it
is impossible that there is any chance to
build any kind of a stable or lasting peace
in the area.
Well, our distinguished guest has played
a great role, first, in proving that it was not
impossible that Israel could become in-
dependent, that it was not impossible that
Israel would develop the strength to main-
tain and defend its independence. And
also I certainly believe that she can and
will play a great role in the future in build-
ing that peace which seems to be impos-
sible, but which is her dream, the dream of
all people in the world, in the Mideast
and in all the areas around it.
I would not suggest that it is easy. I
would not suggest that it will be soon or
instant. But I do suggest that the kind of
leadership, enlightened, courageous and
strong, that built an independent Israel,
that has defended its independence, has
the genius within it to contribute to the
kind of peace in that troubled part of the
world which will provide real security for
the states involved, as well as peace.
And it is this, of course, which has been
the dream of the Prime Minister. It is this
goal which we have discussed and toward
which we are working. And it is in that
spirit that I know that all of you will to-
night want to rise with me, and as you
rise, I would suggest that we are proud
to have her here again as she has been in
this house before, 4 years ago, proud be-
cause she is the Prime Minister of Israel,
proud because of everything she has done
for her country, proud because she had
her roots in our country. And may our two
countries always stand together in the
cause of peace and independence and free-
dom for all people.
To Prime Minister Meir. To the Prime
Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:01 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, the President and Prime
Minister Meir met at the White House.
Prime Minister Meir responded to the Presi-
dent's toast as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, dear friends:
Several times in my life I thought there were
certain moments when one can wish for nothing
else to come, and yet, I have had the privilege
to live quite long, but I have had things happen
and goals reached and hopes and dreams come
true.
I wonder, Mr. President, whether even you
can realize what it means for a little tiny coun-
149
