Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 15 [80]
and then to have them leak out to the
press, I think could do innocent people
a great deal of damage. I understand why
Mr. Gray did, because his hearing was in-
volved. But I would say that should not
be a precedent for the future.
The way Mr. Hoover handled it with
Members of the Congress was that he
would show the raw files, for example, to
Mr. Eastland, the chairman of a commit-
tee, and the ranking minority member,
where a judge was up for confirmation.
But nothing ever leaked from those files.
And the sanctity of those files must be
maintained, and I believe that the prac-
tice of the FBI furnishing raw files to full
committees must stop with this partic-
ular one.
STOCKPILES OF STRATEGIC MATERIALS
[5] Q. Mr. President, have you de-
cided to sell materials from the strategic
stockpiles, and if so, what are the safe-
guards from a security standpoint?
THE PRESIDENT. We have examined
the stockpile question over the past 4
years. I have long felt that these stockpiles
were really irrelevant to the kind of a
world situation we presently confront. The
stockpile numbers were set up at a time
that we were thinking of a very different
kind of conflict than we presently might
be confronted with in the world.
Under the circumstances, after very
full evaluation and discussion within the
Administration, I have found that it will
be safe for the United States to very sub-
stantially reduce our stockpiles. And we
are going to go forward and do that.
Now, there are going to be some squeals,
but while the complaints will be made on
the basis of national security, let me just
say I have made the decision on the basis
of national security. The complaints will
be, and I understand this, from those who
produce and sell some of the materials in
which we are going to sell the stockpiles.
But we are going to do this, first, because
the Government doesn't need this much
for its national security and, second, be-
cause in this particular period, we need
to take every action we possibly can to
drive down prices, or at least to drive
down those particular elements that force
prices up. And selling the stockpiles in
certain areas will help.
INVESTIGATIONS OF CONDUCT OF
CAMPAIGN PERSONNEL
[6.] Q. Mr. President, one of the rev-
elations made by Mr. Gray during the
course of the hearings has been that Mr.
[Herbert W.] Kalmbach was involved with
Mr. [Dwight L.] Chapin in the hiring of
Mr. [Donald H.] Segretti for amounts
up to $40,000. Can you tell us, sir, did you
know of that relationship, and did you
know of that transaction, and if not, can
you tell us your opinion of it now that it
has been revealed by Mr Gray?
THE PRESIDENT. This gives me an op-
portunity to not only answer that ques-
tion, but many others that I note you have
been asking Mr. Ziegler.
First-and incidentally, I am not com-
plaining about the fact you are asking the
question of me or Mr. Ziegler; it is a very
proper question-a Senate committee is
conducting investigations. These investi-
gations will go on, I understand, over a
period of many months. I respect the right
of the Senate to conduct those investiga-
tions. We will cooperate; we will cooper-
ate fully with the Senate, just as we did
with the grand jury, as we did with the
FBI, and as we did with the courts when
31-870 - 75 - 17
207
