Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 23 [12]
agreed to, all the conditions that I laid
down then have been met:
A cease-fire, internationally supervised,
will begin at 7 p.m., this Saturday, Jan-
uary 27, Washington time.
Within 60 days from this Saturday, all
Americans held prisoners of war through-
out Indochina will be released. There will
be the fullest possible accounting for all
of those who are missing in action.
During the same 60-day period, all
American forces will be withdrawn from
South Vietnam.
The people of South Vietnam have
been guaranteed the right to determine
their own
future, without outside
interference.
By joint agreement, the full text of the
agreement and the protocols to carry it
out will be issued tomorrow.
Throughout these negotiations we have
been in the closest consultation with
President Thieu and other representatives
of the Republic of Vietnam. This settle-
ment meets the goals and has the full
support of President Thieu and the Gov-
ernment of the Republic of Vietnam, as
well as that of our other allies who are
affected.
The United States will continue to
recognize the Government of the Repub-
lic of Vietnam as the sole legitimate gov-
ernment of South Vietnam.
We shall continue to aid South Viet-
nam within the terms of the agreement,
and we shall support efforts by the people
of South Vietnam to settle their problems
peacefully among themselves.
We must recognize that ending the war
is only the first step toward building the
peace. All parties must now see to it that
this is a peace that lasts, and also a peace
that heals and a peace that not only
ends the war in Southeast Asia but con-
tributes to the prospects of peace in the
whole world.
This will mean that the terms of the
agreement must be scrupulously adhered
to. We shall do everything the agreement
requires of us, and we shall expect the
other parties to do everything it requires
of them. We shall also expect other inter-
ested nations to help insure that the agree-
ment is carried out and peace is
maintained.
As this long and very difficult war ends,
I would like to address a few special words
to each of those who have been parties in
the conflict.
First, to the people and Government of
South Vietnam: By your courage, by your
sacrifice, you have won the precious right
to determine your own future, and you
have developed the strength to defend
that right. We look forward to working
with you in the future-friends in peace
as we have been allies in war.
To the leaders of North Vietnam: As
we have ended the war through negotia-
tions, let us now build a peace of recon-
ciliation. For our part, we are prepared
to make a major effort to help achieve
that goal. But just as reciprocity was
needed to end the war, so too will it be
needed to build and strengthen the peace.
To the other major powers that have
been involved even indirectly: Now is the
time for mutual restraint so that the
peace we have achieved can last.
And finally, to all of you who are listen-
ing, the American people: Your stead-
fastness in supporting our insistence on
peace with honor has made peace with
honor possible. I know that you would
not have wanted that peace jeopardized.
With our secret negotiations at the sensi-
tive stage they were in during this recent
period, for me to have discussed publicly
19
