Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 18 [335]
roommate for 3 years was a boy from
Macon. He did not go to Mercer; as a
matter of fact, he went to Emory Uni-
versity, which is also a fine university, you
know, over in Atlanta. And we roomed
together for 3 years.
He taught me a lot. As a matter of fact,
he was the first man in our class, the
brightest boy in the whole class. In fact,
he made the best record at Duke of any
man who has ever gone to Duke. And so,
as you can imagine, I learned a lot from
him, a lot about the law, but also a lot
about the South.
When I came of course, my folks are
from the Midwest. I had gone to school
in the Far West, and I studied all
my
his-
tory books, and we used to talk some-
times about, well, I called it the Civil
War, and he said that isn't what it was,
it was the War Between the States.
But sometimes we talked about the gen-
erals. Now I was raised with the belief-
and I told him this-that Ulysses S.
Grant, who later became President, was
the greatest general of the Civil War. That
is what I thought in my first year at law
school. After Bill Perdue had brainwashed
me for 3 years, he had Grant in fourth
place. He had Robert E. Lee first, Stone-
wall Jackson second, and Joseph Johns-
ton third.
But thank God that war is history. We
can all be thankful this is one country-
East, West, North, and South. We can all
be thankful that there are people who will
sacrifice for this country, who love it
wherever they come from. We can all be
thankful, too, that there are men and
women who served in our Armed Forces
in peacetime as well as in wartime, and
that here at this great air base, that it
played such a great role in the airlift, the
greatest airlift that ever took place, and I
congratulate the Robins Air Force Base
for what they did in that air thing.
As a matter of fact, somebody gave me
a little card. I am going to read it to you.
It says, "Every day in Middle Georgia is
Air Force appreciation day." How do you
like that?
But now, on this occasion-and I will
bring my remarks to a close so that we
can get back down to the ceremonies at
the Mercer University-just let me say
that we can be thankful that this year,
1973, which has been in some ways a very
hard year, but in other ways perhaps one
of the very great years for America, we
can be thankful that for the first time in
12 years, the United States is at peace
with every nation in the world. For the
first time in 8 years, every American POW
is home where he belongs, and as one of
them said, they are proud they came
home on their feet and not on their knees.
And when I see so many here of high
school age, I guess all of you would agree
that some of you will volunteer for the
Armed Forces, but did you know for the
first time in 25 years it is your choice. No
one is going to be drafted. The draft is
finished, and you can choose it if you
want. And I urge many of you to go to
our Armed Forces, because it is a great
service, it is a service in the cause of peace.
I will simply conclude by saying that
as I look at the events of recent months-
the close situation we had in the Mideast,
where the possibility of confrontation de-
veloped between great powers, and then it
was settled because the leaders of those
powers knew each other, were able to
talk to each other and had decided long
before that whenever they had differences
they would talk them out rather than try
to fight them out-we can look back to
that, we can look back to the end of the
965
