[235] Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
tives many years ago, participated in an
investigation together. I learned his bril-
liance. I also became very much impressed
by his strong, vigorous patriotism, and
now to have him as chairman of the
Armed Services Committee in the House,
he is not only one of the most powerful
men but a strong man in every respect.
I see another name, Otto Passman. He
is my strong right arm. Now, actually, he
is in charge of foreign aid, and I realize
that many people will say, well, he is the
guy that gives money away. Well, let me
tell you, if it gets by Passman, it is worth
spending. And that is why, whether the
President is a Democrat or a Republican,
Otto Passman is the man we rely upon.
because we know that he is looking after
the taxpayer and also looking after the
interests of the United States of America
abroad.
And so, that is an indication of some of
those who are here. I could go on. I would
not want to miss Lindy Boggs Lindy
Boggs, of course, whose husband was the
majority leader, and who now serves in
his place in the House of Representatives.
But if I were to go on and then begin to
pick up the old friends from other parts
of the country, from the House and the
Senate, it would take too long.
Simply let me say this: There is one
characteristic of the Members of the
House and of the Senate from Louisiana,
and the others here, like Bryan Dorn, an
old friend, from other States that you
have in common, you of the VFW and the
auxiliary, with them. There is no party
line that divides this organization or di-
vides them when national security is
concerned.
As a matter of fact, saying that about
the delegation from Louisiana, there is not
much of a line anyway. We have only one
Republican, and he is a freshman But
nevertheless, the point that I make is
this: that these days the party you belong
to does not seem to make a lot of differ-
ence, which is perhaps what it should be.
The important thing is that when the
great votes come up, the votes that de-
termine whether we are going to have a
strong America, whether or not we are
going to be a responsible nation, the dele-
gation from Louisiana, the other Con-
gressmen and Senators that are here, stand
strong and firm behind any President,
Democrat or Republican, and that is what
you want in your representation in the
House of Representatives.
I said that also characterizes this orga-
nization, and believe me, it does. I re-
member some of the hard decisions we
had, decisions over the past 4 years, deci-
sions that were necessary in order to bring
us to the place that we finally do have
peace with honor. And I remember once
very early in my term in 1969, in the fall,
when there were 350,000 demonstrators
marching on the White House, and I sat
there wondering if we had any friends. A
delegation came in from the VFW, in-
cluding the national commander, and
they said, "You didn't call us, but we just
wanted you to know we are with you,"
and that is always the way with the VFW.
I don't call you; you come in.
Now, I want to say a word to Mrs. Reid
about the Peace Award, which, I under-
stand, is the first time this award has been
given. It may not be given annually, and
that, of course, makes it even more, of
course, impressive from the standpoint of
the recipient. I can only say that there is
no award that a President of the United
States would more cherish than a peace
award from those who know what war
is the wives, the mothers of those who
704
