[20] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
20 Radio Address: "The New Budget: Charting a New
Era of Progress." January 28, 1973
Good evening:
At noon tomorrow, I will send to the
Congress one of the most important docu-
ments I will sign as President-my budget
proposals for the coming fiscal year.
This budget will not require higher
taxes. It will not drive prices higher. And
it will give us the chance I spoke of in my
Inaugural Address-to make our new era
of peace a new era of progress.
In the last few decades, the cost of
government has skyrocketed. For every
one dollar we were spending in 1952, we
are spending nearly $4 today. If the
budget continues to double every 10 years,
it will be over a trillion dollars by the
1990's-20 years from now-or as big as
our entire economy is now.
We must resist this trend for several
reasons. The first involves your taxes.
Since 1950, the share of personal in-
come taken for taxes by all levels of gov-
ernment has doubled-to more than 20
percent of your family budget. This grow-
ing burden works to dull individual in-
centive and discourage individual respon-
sibility. As government takes more from
people, people can do less for themselves.
The only way to restrain taxes is to re-
strain spending.
In the campaign last fall, I promised
I would not propose any new tax in-
creases. By keeping a tight lid on spend-
ing, my new budget keeps that promise.
The second reason for resisting bigger
government is its impact on our econ-
omy. We saw in the 1960's what happens
when government spends beyond its
means. The result is runaway inflation,
the most insidious of all taxes, which be-
gins by picking your pockets, goes on to
threaten your very jobs. Not only the size
of your tax bill but also the size of your
grocery bill and the security of your job
itself all of these are at stake when we
draw up the Federal budget.
In the past 4 years, we have put our
economy back on course again. Since
1969, inflation has been cut nearly in half.
Jobs increased more rapidly last year than
at any time since 1947-25 years ago. Real
spendable weekly earnings-that is what
you have left to spend after paying your
taxes and after allowing for inflation-
showed their greatest improvement since
1955-
Best of all, the prospects for the coming
year are very bright. Nineteen hundred
seventy-three could be our best year ever,
ushering in a new era of prolonged and
growing prosperity.
The greatest threat to our new pros-
perity is excessive government spending.
My budget calls for spending $250 billion
in the current fiscal year, $269 billion next
year, and $288 billion in fiscal year 1975-
These are large amounts but they would
be $20 billion higher for each of the next
2 years if we had just gone about spend-
ing as usual. That, in turn, would have
meant either an annual budget deficit of
$30 billion a year, which would have led
to higher prices, or a 15 percent increase
in your income taxes.
To keep the totals even this low re-
quired a rigorous effort within the execu-
tive branch. But we cannot do the job
alone.
If we are going to keep taxes and prices
down, the Congress must keep spending
30
