[277] Sept. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
related to pollution control under the
auspices of the Intergovernmental Mari-
time Consultative Organization.
MARINE ADVISORY SERVICES
To support Federal marine programs
and to assist in their application for the
benefit of the American public, a marine
advisory service has been established to
serve as a two-way communications link
with the public. Field agents of this ad-
visory service-"county agents in hip
boots"-will help bring to the Nation an
awareness of our ocean heritage and its
potential for satisfying many of our eco-
nomic and social needs.
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
Problems of the marine environment
have a unique global dimension. As we
continue our efforts in the marine areas
that I have highlighted, we shall also
work to improve the performance of these
functions within the international com-
munity. We are already making head-
way, for example, in advancing the
International Decade of Ocean Explora-
tion, the International Field Year of the
Great Lakes, and the Integrated Global
Ocean Station System of the Intergovern-
mental Oceanographic Commission and
the World Meteorological Organization.
We have also established special agree-
ments for cooperative marine activities
with a number of nations, including Can-
ada, France, Japan, and the USSR. In
addition, we shall take whatever efforts
are required to fulfill those commitments
made at the Stockholm Conference on
the Human Environment, the meetings of
the International Whaling Commission,
and the significant deliberations of nu-
merous other organizations dedicated to
fisheries and the marine environment. We
shall also continue to work with develop-
ing nations, helping them to realize more
fully the benefits available to them from
the oceans and generating the climate
necessary to assure freedom of research
at sea for all nations.
Finally, we must seek ways to insure
that the oceans remain an avenue of
peaceful cooperation rather than an arena
of tension-filled confrontation. Our ef-
forts in the Law of the Sea deliberations,
now beginning, will be devoted to this
goal.
CONCLUSION
America is a seagoing nation with great
dependence on the oceans that surround
it. We can take pride in our past leader-
ship and our accomplishments in marine
science and engineering. I am determined
that our future Federal marine effort will
continue that leadership to the benefit of
our Nation and all mankind.
The White House,
September 28, 1973-
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in the report
entitled "The Federal Ocean Program: The
annual report of the President to the Congress
on the Nation's efforts to comprehend, con-
serve, and use the sea-April 1973" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 133 pp.).
834
