Richard Nixon, 1973
Mar. 2 [63]
bers of the Senate and the House disagree
with it, they should put it up for a vote
in the Senate and House. I think that
the Members of the Senate and the House
would overwhelmingly approve my
position.
Let me say it is not said with any sense
of vengeance; it is not said with any lack
of compassion-but I take this position
because these men have broken the law.
And if, at the end of the war, we broke
every precedent that this country has had,
this would be the first time in history that
amnesty was provided for those who de-
serted or evaded the draft, broke the law
rather than complied with it as conscien-
tious objectors. If we did that, we could
not have a viable force in the future.
I would also say I can think of no
greater insult to the memories of those who
have fought and died, to the memories
of those who have served, and also to our
POW's, to say to them that we are now
going to provide amnesty for those who
deserted the country or refused to serve.
We are not going to do so, and I do not
intend to change my position.
JOHN CONNALLY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, are you going to
send John Connally on a mission around
the world?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he has been
traveling around the world a great deal
already, as you know. And I want you to
know, Miss McClendon [Sarah McClen-
don, Sarah McClendon News Service],
seriously, that as Secretary Connally has
traveled around the world, he, of course,
has been traveling in his private capacity
as an attorney, but he has, at my request,
undertaken some informal discussions
with leaders in various parts of the world.
Secretary Connally, as you know, is very
knowledgeable in the field of energy, and
without getting involved in anything in-
volving his client-attorney relationship, he
is studying the situation with regard to
energy from the private sector, and is mak-
ing recommendations to me and to our
energy group.
As far as any future trips are concerned,
there are none officially planned, but if
he travels privately, and if I can prevail
upon him to undertake a mission that
would be semipublic in purpose, I can
think of no better man to undertake it.
WELFARE REFORM
[8.] Q. Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Weinberger yes-
terday I am sorry.
THE PRESIDENT. Either one. You start.
Q. Mr. Weinberger—
THE PRESIDENT. He will always get
his; don't worry.
Q. —said that the Administration
was never comfortable about the family
assistance plan, and he seemed to include
you in that. I wonder if you could give
us your views on that, and why you intro-
duced it in the first place if you were not
comfortable with it?
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Weinberger
is expressing, I think, the views that we
had after we ran into a situation in the
Senate which clearly indicated that we
were up against an impossible legislative
problem.
First, with regard to family assistance,
I thought at the time that I approved it—
and this view has not changed-that it
was the best solution to what I have
termed, and many others have termed
before me, the welfare mess. I believe that
it is essential that we develop a new pro-
155
