[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
exports and home supplies and to a better
world agricultural trading order.
But despite the actions we and other
nations have taken to meet domestic
needs and to help establish more sustain-
able trade arrangements, problems and
grievances remain. Although farmers,
workers, businessmen, and consumers
together benefit overwhelmingly from
foreign trade, trade issues continue to be
the subject of intense debate. In some
cases, pressures such issues generate pre-
vent nations from reducing trade barriers
even though to do so would be in their
overall interest. In other cases, they pro-
duce pressures for new barriers that ad-
versely affect both their own domestic
consumers and other nations.
In the United States, these pressures-
magnified by a period of high unemploy-
ment and a large payments deficit-have
created demands for erecting high bar-
riers against foreign competition. For both
domestic and international reasons I do
not favor this course. This approach
might ease a few problems, but it would
cause many more of a serious and per-
manent nature. Our consumers would
have to pay higher prices. The many
American industries that depend on im-
ported materials and components would
be seriously hurt and their products would
become less competitive. This course could
also trigger an escalation of international
trade barriers which would cut American
industrial and agricultural exports and
strike at the roots of international coop-
eration and prosperity. The collective
result would be highly damaging to our
domestic well-being and to our foreign
policy interests. We have agreed with our
trading partners to pursue a wiser and
better alternative.
The Need for a Multilateral Response.
The solution to the problems we face lies
in a major international effort to develop
an improved world trading system. We
must build a system which allows nations
to satisfy their domestic needs while par-
ticipating fully in mutual gains from
trade. Such a system should expand ex-
port opportunities and give consumers the
benefit of less expensive and more varied
goods. It should establish a set of rules
under which a country could limit im-
ports temporarily where necessary to give
workers and industries time to adjust
smoothly to sudden disruptive increases
in foreign competition. And it should
bring about an improvement in interna-
tional trading rules and arrangements.
Together these will enable us to better
meet the needs of American agriculture,
labor, business, and consumers.
The international commitment to
multilateral trade negotiations provides
the opportunity to achieve these goals. In
February 1972, the United States, the
European Community, and Japan agreed
to "initiate and actively support multi-
lateral and comprehensive negotiations in
the framework of GATT beginning in
1973 with a view to the expansion
and greater liberalization of world
trade on the basis of mutual ad-
vantage and mutual commitment with
overall reciprocity." At Honolulu, Prime
Minister Tanaka and I reaffirmed that
commitment. In October leaders of the
enlarged European Community reempha-
sized their pledge to work toward a reduc-
tion of tariff and non-tariff barriers, ex
pressing the hope that the negotiations
could be concluded in 1975. Responding
to these expressions, I sent new trade leg-
islation to the Congress and announced
my intention to work toward the time-
table suggested by the European leaders.
472
