[323] Nov. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
|
enough. We must be prepared to take
additional steps, and for that purpose, ad-
ditional authorities must be provided by
the Congress.
I have therefore directed my chief ad-
viser for energy policy, Governor Love,
and other Administration officials, to work
closely with the Congress in developing
an emergency energy act.
I met with the leaders of the Congress
this morning, and I asked that they act on
this legislation on a priority, urgent basis.
It is imperative that this legislation be on
my desk for signature before the Congress
recesses this December.
Because of the hard work that has al-
ready been done on this bill by Senators
Jackson and Fannin and others, I am
confident that we can meet that goal and
that I will have the bill on this desk and
will be able to sign it.
This proposed legislation would enable
the executive branch to meet the energy
emergency in several important ways:
First, it would authorize an immediate
return to daylight saving time on a year-
round basis.
Second, it would provide the necessary
authority to relax environmental regula-
tions on a temporary, case-by-case basis,
thus permitting an appropriate balancing
of our environmental interests, which all
of us share, with our energy requirements,
which, of course, are indispensable.
Third, it would grant authority to im-
pose special energy conservation meas-
ures, such as restrictions on the working
hours for shopping centers and other com-
mercial establishments.
And fourth, it would approve and fund
increased exploration, development, and
production from our naval petroleum re-
serves. Now, these reserves are rich
sources of oil. From one of them alone-
Elk Hills in California- we could pro-
duce more than 160.000 barrels of oil a
day within 2 months.
Fifth, it would provide the Federal
Government with authority to reduce
highway speed limits throughout the
Nation.
And finally, it would expand the power
of the Government's regulatory agencies
to adjust the schedules of planes, ships,
and other carriers.
If shortages persist despite all of these
actions and despite inevitable increases in
the price of energy products, it may then
become necessary-may become neces-
sary to take even stronger measures.
It is only prudent that we be ready to
cut the consumption of oil products, such
as gasoline, by rationing or by a fair sys-
tem of taxation, and consequently, I have
directed that contingency plans, if this
becomes necessary, be prepared for that
purpose.
Now, some of you may wonder whether
we are turning back the clock to another
age. Gas rationing, oil shortages, reduced
speed limits they all sound like a way of
life we left behind with Glenn Miller and
the war of the forties. Well, in fact, part
of our current problem also stems from
war-the war in the Middle East. But our
deeper energy problems come not from
war, but from peace and from abun-
dance. We are running out of energy to-
day because our economy has grown enor-
mously and because in prosperity what
were once considered luxuries are now
considered necessities.
How many of you can remember when
it was very unusual to have a home air-
conditioned? And yet, this is very com-
mon in almost all parts of the Nation.
As a result, the average American will
consume as much energy in the next
918
