Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 28 [20]
down. That is why it is so important for
the Congress to set a firm ceiling on its
overall expenditures-so that the Con-
gress will consider not only the particular
merits of individual programs but also
what happens to taxes and prices when
you add them all together.
The third reason my new budget tries
to curb the growth of government is that
relying on bigger government is the wrong
way to meet our Nation's needs. Govern-
ment has grown by leaps and bounds since
the 1930's, but so have problems-prob-
lems like crime and blight and inflation
and pollution. The bigger government
became, the more clumsy it became, until
its attempts to help often proved a
hindrance.
The time has come to get rid of old pro-
grams that have outlived their time or
that have failed. Whenever the return on
our tax dollars is not worth the expendi-
ture, we must either change that program
or end it.
In the next few days, you will hear
about some very sharp reductions in some
very familiar programs. Some have been
regarded as sacred cows in the past. No
matter what their real value, no one dared
to touch them. Let me give you just a few
examples.
Last year we spent nearly $200 million
on the Hill-Burton program to help build
more hospitals, but today the shortage of
hospital beds which existed through the
fifties and the sixties has been more than
met. And yet, the Hill-Burton program
continues to pour out funds, regardless of
need.
Or take some of our urban renewal
pro-
grams. They have cost us billions of dol-
lars, with very disappointing results. And
little wonder. How can a committee of
Federal bureaucrats, hundreds or thou-
sands of miles away, decide intelligently
where building should take place? That
is a job for people you elect at the local
level, people whom you know, people you
can talk to.
And then there is our aid to schools
near Federal facilities. There was a time
when this program made sense, when Fed-
eral workers were a drain on local re-
sources. Now most Federal workers pay
full local taxes. Yet we still have been pay-
ing out more than $500 million a year
in compensation to these communities,
many of which are among the richest in
the country. And so I propose we change
that program. Let us spend our education
dollars where they are really needed.
Our search for waste has led us into
every nook and cranny of the bureaucracy.
And because economy must begin right
at home, we are cutting the number of
people who work in the President's own
Executive Office from 4,200 to 1,700. That
is a 60 percent reduction.
We also found we could save $2.7 bil-
lion in the projected defense budget for
1974 and $2.1 billion in the projected ag-
ricultural budget.
But after talking about these cuts, let's
get one thing straight. Cutting back on
Federal programs does not mean cutting
back on progress. In fact, it means a better
way to progress. When we cut a million
dollars from a Federal program, that
money is not lost and its power to do good
things eliminated; rather, that money
transferred to other budgets where its
power to do good things is multiplied.
Some of it will stay in family budgets
where people can use it as they, them-
selves, see fit.
is
Much will go back to State and county
and municipal governments, back to the
scene of the action, where needs are best
31-870 - 75 - 6
31
