[115] Apr. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
system of its kind in the world, and one of
the most effective and progressive.
Numerous significant improvements have
been made in it during the past four years
by this Administration in cooperation with
the Congress.
In addition, public policy has long given
active encouragement to the growth of a
second form of retirement income: private
pensions which are tailored to the needs of
particular groups of workers and help to
supplement the Social Security floor. Pri-
vate pension plans now cover over 30
million workers and pay benefits to an-
other 6 million retired persons.
But there is still room for substantial
improvement in Federal laws dealing with
private retirement savings. Those workers
who are covered by pension plans—about
half the total private work force-pres-
ently lack certain important types of Gov-
ernment protection and support. The
other half of the labor force, those who are
not participants in private plans, are not
receiving sufficient encouragement from
the Government to save for retirement
themselves. Self-reliance, prudence, and
independence-basic strengths of our sys-
tem which are reinforced by private re-
tirement savings and which government
should seek to foster-are in too many
cases not supported, and sometimes actu-
ally discouraged, by present practices and
regulations.
Sixteen months ago I asked the Con-
gress to enact pension reform legislation
to remedy these deficiencies. Since then
committees of both the House and the
Senate have held useful hearings on re-
form, and the issue has received wide pub-
lic discussion. The Administration has also
completed studies on some additional
facets of the pension question, and we
have refined our proposals.
I believe that the time is now ripe for
action on those proposals. They will be re-
submitted within several days, in the form
of two bills, the Retirement Benefits Tax
Act and the Employee Benefits Protection
Act. This message outlines the specific
reforms contained in the legislation.
THE RETIREMENT BENEFITS TAX ACT
If working men and women are to have
a genuine incentive to set aside some of
their earnings today for a more secure re-
tirement tomorrow, they need solid as-
surances that such savings will not be
erased late in their career by the loss of a
job, wiped out by insufficient financing of
promised benefits, nor penalized by the
tax laws. To this end, the Retirement
Benefits Tax Act would embody the fol-
lowing five major principles:
1. A minimum standard should be es
tablished in law for preserving the retire-
ment rights of employees who leave their
jobs before retirement.
Protection of retirement rights, which is
essential to a growing and healthy pen-
sion system, is ordinarily defined in terms
of "vesting." A pension vests when an em-
ployee becomes legally entitled upon re-
tirement to the benefits he has earned up
to a certain date, regardless of whether he
leaves or loses his job before retirement.
Despite some recent movement toward
earlier vesting, many private plans still
carry overly restrictive requirements for
age or length of service or participation
before vesting occurs. Thus, the pensions
of more than two-thirds of all full-time
workers participating in private pension
plans are not now vested. All too fre-
quently, the worker who resigns or is dis-
charged late in his career finds that the
retirement income on which he has been
274
