[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Détente does not mean the end of
danger. Improvements in both the tone
and substance of our relations have indeed
reduced tensions and heightened the pros-
pects for peace. But these processes are
not automatic or easy. They require vigi-
lance and firmness and exertion. Nothing
would be more dangerous than to assume
prematurely that dangers have dis-
appeared.
Thus we maintain strong military power
even as we seek mutual limitation and re-
duction of arms. We do not mistake clim-
ate for substance. We base our policies
on the actions and capabilities of others,
not just on estimates of their intentions.
Détente is not the same as lasting peace.
And peace does not guarantee tranquility
or mean the end of contention. The world
will hold perils for as far ahead as we
can see.
We intend to share responsibilities, not
abdicate them. We have emphasized the
need for other countries to take on more
responsibilities for their security and de-
velopment. The tangible result has often
been a reduction in our overseas presence
or our share of contributions. But our pur-
pose is to continue our commitment to the
world in ways we can sustain, not to
camouflage a retreat. We took these steps
only when our friends were prepared for
them. They have been successfully car-
ried out because American backing re-
mained steady. They have helped to
maintain support in this country for a
responsible foreign policy.
I underlined the vital importance of the
redefined American role two years ago:
"Our participation remains crucial. Be-
cause of the abundance of our resources
and the stretch of our technology, Amer-
ica's impact on the world remains enor-
mous, whether by our action or by our in-
action. Our awareness of the world is too
keen, and our concern for peace too deep
for us to remove the measure of stability
which we have provided for the past 25
years."
Measured against the challenges we
faced and the goals we set, we can take
satisfaction in the record of the past four
years. Our progress has been more marked
in reducing tensions than in restructuring
partnerships. We have negotiated an end
to a war and made future wars less likely
by improving relations with major adver-
saries. Our bonds with old friends have
proved durable during these years of pro-
found change. But we are still searching
for more balanced relationships. This will
be our most immediate concern, even as
we pursue our other goals.
Where peace is newly planted, we shall
work to make it thrive.
Where bridges have been built, we shall
work to make them stronger.
Where friendships have endured, we
shall work to make them grow.
During the next four years-with the
help of others--we shall continue building
an international structure which could
silence the sounds of war for the re-
mainder of this century.
NOTE: The text of the report was issued by
the White House in the form of a 234-page
booklet entitled "U.S. Foreign Policy for the
1970's: Shaping a Durable Peace: A Report
to the Congress by Richard Nixon, President
of the United States, May 3, 1973.'
On the same day, the White House released
the transcripts of two news briefings on the
President's report. The briefings were held by
Henry A. Kissinger, Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, on May 2 and 3.
518
