Richard Nixon, 1973
Jan. 31 [23]
Let me suggest that I would like to have
a precise statement prepared which I will
personally approve so that you will know
exactly what it is. I discussed this with
the leaders and we have talked, for ex-
ample-the Republicans, like Senator
Javits and Senator Percy, are very inter-
ested in it, not just the Democrats, and I
understand that. But I would rather, at
this point, not like to have just my off-the-
top-of-my-head press conference state-
ment delineate what executive privilege
will be.
I will simply say the general attitude I
have is to be as liberal as possible in terms
of making people available to testify be-
fore the Congress, and we are not going
to use executive privilege as a shield for
conversations that might be just embar-
rassing to us, but that really don't deserve
executive privilege.
A. ERNEST FITZGERALD
[11] Q. The specific situation with
regard to Fitzgerald, I would like to ex-
plore that. That dealt with a conversation
Seamans had with someone in the White
House relative to the firing of Fitzgerald
and justification or explanations. I
wonder if you feel that that is covered,
and did you have this explained to you
in detail before you made the decision?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me explain. I was
totally aware that Mr. Fitzgerald would
be fired or discharged or asked to resign.
I approved it and Mr. Seamans must have
been talking to someone who had dis-
cussed the matter with me.
No, this was not a case of some person
down the line deciding he should go. It
was a decision that was submitted to me.
I made it and I stick by it.3
IMPOUNDMENT OF FUNDS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, how do you
respond to criticism that your impound-
ment of funds abrogates power or author-
ity that the Constitution gave to Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. The same way that
Jefferson did, and Jackson did, and Tru-
man did.
When I came in on this, Mr. Mollen-
hoff-he is one of the few oldtimers
around here who will remember it-you
remember when Senator Symington, who
has now turned the other way on this, but
you remember when we were talking
about the 70 group air force. You remem-
ber that on that case I voted as a Congress-
man to override President Truman's veto.
I think it was 70 wing or 70 group air
force, where we insisted on a 70 group air
force and he said the budget would only
provide for 48.
Despite the fact that the Congress spoke,
3 At his afternoon news briefing on Febru-
ary 1, 1973, Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler
said that the President "indicated to me that
after reading the transcript of yesterday's press
conference that he was mistaken in his reference
to Mr. Fitzgerald, and the fact of the matter
is that the President did not, as indicated in the
press conference, have put before him the deci-
sion regarding Mr. Fitzgerald.
"We can find no record-the President re-
quested that a check be made of this-of the
matter ever being brought to the President's
attention for a decision.
"So, the decision regarding the reorganization
that took place in the Air Force, which dealt
with Mr. Fitzgerald, was a matter dealt with
solely by the Air Force."
61
