Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 24 [311]
tive action, with full debate on the merits
of the issue and with each member taking
the responsibility of casting a yes or no
vote after considering those merits. The
authorization and appropriations process
represents one of the ways in which such
influence can be exercised. I do not, how-
ever, believe that the Congress can respon-
sibly contribute its considered, collective
judgment on such grave questions with-
out full debate and without a yes or no
vote. Yet this is precisely what the joint
resolution would allow. It would give
every future Congress the ability to hand-
cuff every future President merely by do-
ing nothing and sitting still. In my view,
one cannot become a responsible partner
unless one is prepared to take responsible
action.
STRENGTHENING COOPERATION BETWEEN
THE CONGRESS AND THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCHES
The responsible and effective exercise
of the war powers requires the fullest co-
operation between the Congress and the
Executive and the prudent fulfillment by
each branch of its constitutional respon-
sibilities. House Joint Resolution 542 in-
cludes certain constructive measures
which would foster this process by en-
hancing the flow of information from the
executive branch to the Congress. Section
3, for example, calls for consultations with
the Congress before and during the in-
volvement of the United States forces in
hostilities abroad. This provision is con-
sistent with the desire of this Administra-
tion for regularized consultations with the
Congress in an even wider range of
circumstances.
I believe that full and cooperative par-
ticipation in foreign policy matters by both
the executive and the legislative branches
could be enhanced by a careful and dis-
passionate study of their constitutional
roles. Helpful proposals for such a study
have already been made in the Congress.
I would welcome the establishment of a
non-partican commission on the constitu-
tional roles of the Congress and the
President in the conduct of foreign affairs.
This commission could make a thorough
review of the principal constitutional is-
sues in Executive-Congressional rela-
tions, including the war powers, the
international agreement powers, and the
question of Executive privilege, and then
submit its recommendations to the Presi-
dent and the Congress. The members of
such a commission could be drawn from
both parties and could represent many
perspectives including those of the Con-
gress, the executive branch, the legal pro-
fession, and the academic community.
This Administration is dedicated to
strengthening cooperation between the
Congress and the President in the conduct
of foreign affairs and to preserving
the constitutional prerogatives of both
branches of our Government. I know that
the Congress shares that goal. A commis-
sion on the constitutional roles of the Con-
gress and the President would provide a
useful opportunity for both branches to
work together toward that common
objective.
The White House,
October 24, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On November 7, 1973, the House of
Representatives and the Senate voted to over-
ride the President's veto. As enacted, H. J. Res.
542 is Public Law 93-148 (87 Stat. 555),
which became law without the President's sig-
nature on November 7.
31-870 O 75-60
895
