Richard Nixon, 1973
Aug. 20 [235]
provided with one more incentive to move
to the conference table, which they began
to do. The secrecy was necessary to ac-
complish these goals-secrecy from the
standpoint of making a big public an-
nouncement about it, although there was
no secrecy as far as Government leaders
were concerned, who had any right to
know or need to know.
Had we announced the airstrikes, the
Cambodian Government would have been
compelled to protest, the bombing would
have had to stop, and American soldiers
would have paid the price for this dis-
closure and this announcement with their
lives.
My comrades, let me just read you a
letter. The President gets a lot of very
moving letters during and after any period
of war. This is from the father of a soldier
who served along the Cambodian-Viet-
namese border back in 1969.
He said, "Dear Mr. President: Back in
early 1969," and I have his letter he
wrote then, too-"I wrote to you request-
ing that you allow the bombing of the
supply routes in North Vietnam and Cam-
bodia. I wrote to you because my son
Douglas, who was with the 4th Infantry
Division near Kontum, complained to us
in his letters about all the materials and
men the North was shipping in from
Cambodia.
“... When
When my son was killed on
March 1, 1969, I felt you let him and the
other troops down by not allowing these
supply lines to be bombed.
you did
ap-
"Today I read where . . .
prove the bombing early in 1969 . . . I
now believe the Lord led you to make a
proper decision in this matter, and I sin-
cerely feel your action saved many lives.
and shortened that dreadful war."
Just let me add a postscript to that
letter. If American soldiers in the field to-
day were similarly threatened by an enemy
and if the price of protecting those soldiers
was to order airstrikes to save American
lives, I would make the same decision to-
day that I made in February of 1969.
Of course, we have had other com-
plaints, too, the post mortems on what
happened.
You remember the huge outcry when I
ordered the mining of Haiphong in May
of 1972. It was going to bring on world
war III. We did it. What it brought on
was the negotiation that helped to finally
end the war. And you remember that at
Christmas of last year, this was a terribly
difficult decision-December 18-when I
ordered the use of B-52's against Hanoi,
military targets only, those were the tar-
gets, and there was a great outcry then
that this was a wrong decision on the part
of the President. And I don't say that all
the decisions are right, but just let me say
this: when I wonder about those decisions
and I wonder what was wrong and what
was right, I recall a very young man-to
me he seemed very young-who came
through a receiving line in May at a re-
ception we gave for 600 POW's after they
had returned. The line moved rather fast,
and there was not much time to say much
to any one of them. This one man said,
"I would like to ask you a question, sir,”
and I said, "Go ahead." He said, "Why
did you wait so long to order in the
B-52's?"
All I can say is this: Whether it was that
decision or any other one, the decisions
were made in the interests of bringing this
war to an honorable conclusion as quickly
as possible, using the force that was neces-
sary and no more than was necessary.
707
