[141] May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ant power gave us. We acted as the pro-
tector and champion of a network of
alliances locked in rigid confrontation
with the Communist world-as the leader,
senior partner, and chief actor. Japan
found this arrangement consistent with
her own objectives--not only in the condi-
tions of her postwar weakness but even for
a time as she recovered her political and
economic vitality. By geography and his-
tory, unlike most of our European allies,
Japan was a late-comer to global multi-
lateral diplomacy. Even in the twentieth
century, her focus has been in the Pacific.
The conditions she faced after World
War II inevitably caused her to gear her
policy and policy making structure to
the needs of economic recovery and
expansion.
By the time I came into office, an al-
liance relationship of this character-
which was suited to postwar conditions
and had served us both well-needed
adjustment.
Japan's resurgence from a recipient of
American aid into a major economic
power and competitor was bound to af-
fect the external political framework
which had helped make it possible. In her
dealings with the United States, in partic-
ular, Japan no longer needed or could
afford an almost exclusive concentration
on her economic advancement or a habit
of acting as a junior partner. She still en-
joyed the special advantage that her reli-
ance on the United States for her security
freed resources for her economic expan-
sion. The political relationships which
continued to safeguard her would re-
quire greater reciprocity in her economic
relations.
Moreover, Japan was no longer just a
regional Pacific power dependent on the
United States in the broader diplomatic
field. Europe, Asia, North and South
America, and Africa were now part of one
vast arena of multilateral diplomacy in
which Japan was a major factor. Japan
was already acting autonomously in an ex-
panding sphere. Her power now brought
her new responsibilities. The weight of her
economic involvement in the world-her
stake in the free world's economic system,
her extensive aid programs, and her grow-
ing economic ties with Communist
powers-would require that she make her
decisions on broader policy grounds than
economic calculations. We and Japan, as
allies, would have to face up to the prob-
lem of keeping our independent policies
directed at common objectives.
These are the fundamental develop-
ments I have sought to address over the
last four years. I have sought to adapt our
partnership to these transformed condi-
tions of greater equality and multipolar
diplomacy. My three meetings with Japa-
nese Prime Ministers, my decision on Oki-
nawa, our discussions of new cooperation
in the Far East and in bilateral and multi-
lateral economic areas, and our policies
toward China-were all part of this.
The intimacy of the postwar U.S.-Japa-
nese alliance, however, inevitably gave
Japan a special sensitivity to the evolution
of United States foreign policy. We thus
found the paradox that Japan seemed to
feel that her reliance on us should limit
change or initiatives in American policy,
even while she was actively seeking new
directions in many dimensions of her own
policy. But our abandoning our pater-
nalistic style of alliance leadership meant
not that we were casting Japan or any
ally adrift, but that we took our allies more
seriously, as full partners. Our recognizing
the new multipolarity of the world meant
not a loss of interest in our alliances, but
420
