[228] Aug. 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
competition often led to increases in oper-
ating costs which prevented lending rates
from declining when credit conditions
later eased.
Finally, because of reduced inflows of
savings, thrift institutions cut back on their
mortgage lending or borrowed from Fed-
eral Home Loan Banks which had to pay
market rates for their funds. Although
the Federal Government stepped in and
picked up some of the slack, mortgage
flows were still disrupted.
Recognizing the need for action on all
these problems, I appointed a Presidential
Commission on Financial Structure and
Regulation during my second year as Pres-
ident to study this entire matter and to
make recommendations for reforming our
financial institutions. The Commission's
report identified quite precisely the causes
of rigidity and instability in our financial
institutions. Its recommendations were of
major assistance in our further deliber-
ations concerning the best ways to correct
the weaknesses in our financial system.
The time to correct those weaknesses
has come. Our current efforts to fight in-
flation and preserve the value of the dollar
at home and abroad require strong finan-
cial markets. Without strong markets, the
American public will be forced once again
to bear excessive burdens.
If we do not act promptly, there is every
reason to believe that those burdens will
be even greater in the 1970's than they
were in the 1960's. Educated by the last
two credit crunches and by constant ad-
vertisements about interest rates, even the
small saver will shift his funds to places
offering higher yields. As market rates rise
above passbook ceilings and the saver
shifts his funds to obtain the higher in-
terest rates, the result may be that little
loan money is available from financial
institutions.
In keeping with that analysis, I will pro-
pose to the Congress legislation designed
to strengthen and revitalize our financial
institutions. These proposals may be
divided into seven major areas:
(1 Interest ceilings on time and sav-
ings deposits should be removed
over a 5½ year period.
(2) Expanded deposit services for con-
sumers by federally chartered
thrift institutions and banks should
be allowed.
(3) Investment and lending alterna-
tives for federally chartered thrift-
institutions and banks should be
expanded.
(4) Federal charters for stock savings
and loan institutions and mutual
savings banks should be permitted.
(5) Credit unions should be provided
with greater access to funds.
(6) FHA and VA interest ceilings
should be removed.
(7) The tax structure of banks and
thrift institutions should be modi-
fied.
These recommendations would achieve
the basic reforms our financial system re-
quires. They represent the best sugges
tions from many different sources-from
the Presidential Commission and from
business, Government, consumer and
academic communities.
The first five of these recommendations
are designed to provide increased com-
petition among banks and thrift institu-
tions. Such competition would help to
eliminate the inequities now imposed
upon the small saver and borrower. My
recommendations, and the increased com-
petition that would follow, should reduce
684
