Richard Nixon, 1973
[121]
Apr. 14
the tragedy is that too often after war we
fail to build the structure for lasting peace
that will avoid another war.
I would not suggest that there was any
fault on the part of those who were pre-
siding over the country in those peacetime
years, but I do suggest that all of us have
begun a great adventure together. In our
trip to Peking, in our journey to Moscow,
in reaching a peace agreement on Viet-
nam, we have laid the foundation, not just
for ending a war but for building a peace
that will last.
This journey having begun, we now
have the great privilege and the challenge
to continue it, to continue not only our
negotiations with the great super powers
that I have mentioned but to continue
to build that structure of peace in all the
continents of the world, between all na-
tions and all peoples, whatever their dif-
ferences may be as far as systems of gov-
ernment are concerned.
There is naturally a tendency at such
a time, when America has gone through
its longest and most difficult war, for so
many of us to perhaps wish to relax, not
to face up to the burdens of leadership in
the world, to cut back on our defenses, to
cut back on our efforts, to enjoy the peace
that has been so difficult to win.
But this we cannot do, and this we will
not do. We cannot do it, because in the
whole free world today, as everyone in this
room knows, there is no other nation that
can provide the leadership for peace in the
world. Others have the good intent, but
only America has the power, only Amer-
ica has the wealth. And if peace is not
kept, if a structure of peace is not built,
the responsibility will be ours.
But putting it the other way, if we are
able to build a new structure of peace in
the world, of a peace that will last, not just
for a generation but perhaps longer, then
we can all look proudly to that great
achievement.
We can do it. It will require the best
that is in us. It will require military
strength and economic strength and,
above all, as I have emphasized on many,
many occasions, spiritual strength-spir-
itual strength in terms of courage, heroism,
self-sacrifice, love of country, and faith.
The four returned prisoners of war that
all of you have honored so greatly tonight,
and who have honored us with their
pres-
ence tonight, have reminded us of what
they and their colleagues have done to re-
instill in this country a sense of faith, a
sense of patriotism. And I would simply
say that any nation that could produce
such men as these will not fail to meet
the challenge of greatness that destiny has
placed upon us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 p.m. in
the International Ballroom of the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
Ted Knap of the Scripps-Howard News-
paper Alliance was president of the associa-
tion, and Edgar Poe of the New Orleans
Times-Picayune and Newhouse News Service,
was past president.
Prior to the President's remarks, he was
presented with a handcrafted sterling silver
globe symbolizing his efforts for world peace.
289
