Appendix B
August
13 The President announced the designation of
a delegation to represent him at inaugural
ceremonies for Alfredo Stroessner as Presi-
dent of Paraguay in Asuncion from August
13 to 16. The members of the delegation,
all with the rank of Special Ambassador,
were: Senator J. Bennett Johnston, Jr.,
head of the delegation, and Ambassador
George W. Landau, Personal Representa-
tives of the President; and Benjamin
Fernandez, Representative of the President.
14 The President announced the designation
of John A. McKesson III, U.S. Ambassador
to the Gabonese Republic, as his Personal
Representative with the rank of Special
Ambassador, to attend ceremonies marking
Gabonese National Day in Libreville on
August 17.
17 Benno C. Schmidt, Ray D. Owen, and Dr.
R. Lee Clark of the President's Cancer
Panel, HEW Secretary Caspar W. Wein-
berger, and Dr. Frank J. Rauscher, Direc-
tor of the National Cancer Institute, met
with the President at the White House to
discuss a report on the National Cancer
program.
21 The President expressed sadness following
the death of Gordon Jeffery, foreign editor
of the London Daily Mirror, who died as
the result of an accident while in California
with the White House press corps. The
President and Mrs. Nixon sent their con-
dolences to Mr. Jeffery's family.
27 The President talked by telephone with
former Counsellor to the President Robert
H. Finch.
29 The White House announced that on Au-
gust 28, following an earthquake in Mexico,
the President had sent a personal message
to President Luis Echeverría Alvarez ex-
tending deepest sympathy to the President
and the people of Mexico.
September
1 The President met at the White House
with Vice President Spiro T. Agnew.
September
6 The President greeted Robert E. Bauman,
newly elected Representative from Mary-
land's First District. Representative Bau-
man was accompanied by his wife and four
children.
6 Secretary of the Treasury George P. Shultz
met with the President at the White House
for consultation prior to the Secretary's
departure for trade negotiations in Tokyo.
7 Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield
breakfasted with the President at the White
House and discussed the current legislative
session.
7 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House to discuss domestic priorities
and goals.
7 Ray R. Soden, commander-in-chief of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, called on the
President at the White House to present
him with a bound copy of the resolutions
passed at the VFW's 1973 convention in
New Orleans.
7 The President directed the Secretary of La-
bor to certify as eligible to apply for ad-
justment assistance, under the Trade Ex-
pansion Act of 1962, former employees of
the BGS Shoe Corp., Manchester, N.H.
10 Senator and Mrs. Strom Thurmond and
their two children called on the President
at the White House.
10 The President and Mrs. Nixon hosted a re-
ception in the East Room at the White
House for Republican National Commit-
tee members and State chairmen who were
in Washington for a semiannual meeting
of the committee.
11 Former Secretary of the Treasury John B.
Connally met with the President at the
White House for a discussion of the econ-
omy and foreign policy matters.
1
1080
