[137] May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
move, taken at this time, would have cre-
ated more problems for the average
American than it would solve.
If, on the one hand, the freeze had
been brief, the country would soon have
confronted all the old problems again
with even greater urgency when the freeze
expired. But if, on the other hand, the
freeze were planned to last for an ex-
tended period, then our present rising
prosperity would have ground to a halt,
and the controls system would eventually
have broken down.
Concerned as we are about the rise of
prices, we must also recognize that there
are some cases in which necessary sup-
plies will not be available if prices are
frozen or rolled back. We are seeing this
now with oil and gas products. Similarly,
if we had forced the prices of meat back
to their January levels, as some have sug-
gested, customers would not be boycotting
meat today, but would instead be storm-
ing supermarkets to be the first in line for
the scarce supply of meat.
There are times, of course, when a
price-wage freeze is necessary. August of
1971 was such a time.
But the situation is very different to-
day. The American economy is operating
much closer to capacity than in the sum-
mer of 1971. As a result, there are many
more cases today where freezing prices
would cause shortages. More than that,
today we have a flexible price and wage
control system already in existence. If
conditions require firmer action, gener-
ally or selectively, we are already well-
equipped to take it.
The price-wage control system is part
of a larger anti-inflation program the
cornerstone of which is a responsible bud-
get policy. The healthy expansion of our
economy, which is creating more jobs and
better wages today, could be transformed
into a dangerously inflationary boom to-
morrow if the rise in Federal spending ac-
celerates. We must not let that happen.
At the same time that we are following
fiscal and monetary policies to restrain
excessive demand in the marketplace, we
also are acting to increase supplies, the
best of all ways to fight rising prices.
One area of special concern, of course,
is food prices. We have been working in
many ways to increase the supply of food.
We have greatly increased the acreage of
land available for raising crops and graz-
ing livestock. We have sold the Govern-
ment-owned stocks of wheat and feed
grains. We are no longer subsidizing the
export of food, and we have acted to in-
crease imports of meat, dried milk, and
cheese. These measures cannot immedi-
ately offset the food shortages we have
recently experienced-including those
caused by the blizzards and floods of the
last few months. However, what has been
done, together with the spontaneous re-
sponse of farmers to the present high
prices, will have the effect of increasing
food supplies and thus holding down
prices. In fact, retail food prices have been
rising less rapidly in recent weeks than
earlier this year. We will continue to ex-
plore every possible way to meet the food
inflation problem.
We are also seeking to increase supplies
of industrial materials by selling off stocks
held in the Government's strategic stock-
pile that are no longer required for na-
tional security. I have sent to the Congress
the legislation necessary to effect this dis-
posal and I urge its prompt enactment.
I have also sent to the Congress a request
for authority to suspend tariffs or other
restrictions on imports where such action
would be useful to restrain inflation; I
340
