Richard Nixon, 1973
May 3 [141]
bodia should be kept in perspective. Three
years ago many observers thought that it
would only be a matter of months, if not
weeks, before the Communists would top-
ple the Lon Nol government. Since then
the Cambodian people have shown cour-
age and resilience against repeated pres-
sures. The Cambodian army has grown
from a largely ceremonial force of 35,000
in 1970 to some 200,000, most of whom
are volunteers. It has undertaken an in-
ternal reorganization, further training,
and important reforms to develop its full
potential for future self-defense. Progress
in self-defense efforts, however, has been
uneven and needs to be accelerated.
The crucial ingredient in Cambodia re-
mains political stability. Since 1970 most
of the population and opposition leaders
have rallied in opposition to Communist
aggression. Politically, there were both
positive and negative developments dur-
ing 1972. In the past year, the Khmer
Republic adopted a Constitution, elected
a president and a bicameral legislature,
and put into operation various organs of
government provided by the new Con-
stitution. The government also initiated
programs to improve community self-
defense and to encourage the return of
Khmer who have taken up arms against it.
On the other hand, the leading non-
Communist groups and personalities have
not always worked effectively together
and, at times, they have been openly at
odds. This only serves to undercut morale,
jeopardize the security situation, and pre-
vent the establishment of an effective base
from which to negotiate with the enemy if
the enemy ever chooses to do so. Greater
efforts for a unified front against the Com-
munists are clearly needed. Recently, the
Lon Nol government moved to broaden
its political base by including more of the
non-Communist opposition.
The Continuing Conflict. In the Viet-
nam negotiations we pressed very hard
for an early peace in Cambodia to accom-
pany the ceasefires in Vietnam and Laos.
We succeeded in getting the clearcut pro-
visions for both Laos and Cambodia of
Article 20 included in the Vietnam Agree-
ment. In response to our insistence that
all American prisoners throughout Indo-
china be released within sixty days of that
Agreement, we were assured that there
were no Americans held captive in Cam-
bodia. But while we signed the Agreement
with the expectation that there would be
an early cessation of hostilities in that
country, we did not have the firm con-
fidence in this prospect that we held for
Laos.
During the final stage of the Paris nego-
tiations, the other side repeatedly pointed
out that the situation in Cambodia was
more complex than in Laos because of the
many factions involved and the lack of an
established framework for negotiations.
However, Communist actions in the
Khmer Republic since the Vietnam and
Laos Agreements raise serious questions
about Hanoi's professed desire for early
peace
in that country.
The signing of the Vietnam Agreement
brought a brief ray of hope to Cambodia.
On January 28, 1973, the day the Vietnam
ceasefire went into effect, President Lon
Nol ordered his forces to cease all offen-
sive activities and urged the enemy to fol-
low suit. He repeated his willingness to
enter into direct negotiations to turn a
de facto ceasefire into a more definitive
settlement.
We welcomed these measures, sus-
pended our own combat air operations in
401
