Richard Nixon, 1973
Nov. 30 [343]
acres or more, the Secretary of the In-
terior has concluded that two areas are
not suitable for preservation as part of
the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem. These are the Salt Plains National
Wildlife Refuge, Oklahoma, and the
Klamath Forest National Wildlife Ref-
uge, Oregon.
In addition to this message, I am trans-
mitting to the Congress today letters and
reports from the Secretary of the Interior
regarding all of these wilderness pro-
posals. I concur with the recommendation
of the Secretary in each case.
I would draw to the attention of the
Congress once again the eastern wilder-
ness legislation which we recently sub-
mitted. This proposal-which is now em-
bodied in legislation labeled S. 2487 and
H.R. 10469-would amend the Wilder-
ness Act to designate 16 acres in eastern
national forest lands as wilderness on an
immediate basis and would subject 37
other areas to study for possible addition
to the wilderness system. I urge the Con-
gress to give early and favorable consid-
eration to this proposal, as well as the
wilderness proposals accompanying this
message.
The White House,
November 28, 1973.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The White House also issued the Sec-
retary of the Interior's letters and Interior
Department reports on the 14 wilderness
proposals.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the President's message. Participants in the
news briefing were Rogers C. B. Morton, Secre-
tary, E. U. Curtis Bohlen, Deputy Assistant
Secretary, and Stanley W. Hulett, Associate
Director of Legislation, National Park Service,
Department of the Interior.
343 Remarks at a Ball Benefiting Six Drought-Stricken
West African Nations. November 30, 1973
Mr. Ambassador, Mrs. Willoughby, all of
the distinguished guests, ladies and gentle-
men:
This is an occasion in which my wife is
the special sponsor, as I understand, but
where I have the opportunity to join with
the Ambassador and the other Ambassa-
dors, to join with their wives on this occa-
sion, and I simply wanted to have the
opportunity to say that to bring the Am-
bassadors from the six countries that are
affected by this terrible natural catastro-
phe, to bring them together, and also to
bring together the people in the Washing-
ton area—and I hope from around the
country as well-in this good cause, is
something that we think is most worth-
while.
We hope it may not have to happen
again, but we think the fact that we do
meet together on such an occasion as this
tells us something very special about
Africa, it tells us something very special
about America, and it tells us something
particularly special about those who are
the wives of our Ambassadors, and also
the wives of the political people here in
the room.
I have traveled often to Africa. I am
proud to have been there as Vice Presi-
dent, and also when I was out of office.
And my wife has traveled to Africa, as
well, since I have been in office as Presi-
dent. It is my desire to travel to Africa
again, as President, at some time over
these next 3 years.
985
