[348] Dec. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
348 Toasts of the President and President Ceausescu
of Romania. December 4, 1973
President and Mrs. Ceauşescu, and all of
our very distinguished and honored
guests:
As I sit here at this head table in the
State Dining Room with the President of
Romania, I can imagine that many here
in this dining room wonder what we talk
about. Now, of course, I cannot disclose
all of the conversation, but I thought that
it would be of interest to all of you and
those who can hear us through this re-
cording [laughter] how the President
and I first came to meet and how two of
us from, in some ways, very similar back-
grounds and in other ways very different
backgrounds, have each tried to make a
contribution to a cause everybody in this
room, in both of our countries and, we be-
lieve, in the whole world, believes in.
In 1967, when I was not in office and
had no prospects of being in office, I vis-
ited Romania, and the President was kind
enough to receive me. And I was re-
minded of the subjects we discussed in
1967, just 6 years ago: the war in Viet-
nam, which then seemed endless; the rela-
tions between the United States and the
Soviet Union, which then were, at best,
at arms' length, certainly not in terms of
the communication that we have today;
the relations between the United States
and the People's Republic of China,
which at that time were virtually non-
existent in terms of communication.
We talked of many other things, of
course: of Romania, the United States,
and what this country, our country, owes
to those of Romanian background who
have come here and contributed so much
to the diversity of our whole society.
Since then, in 1969, when I had the
honor of being the first American Presi-
dent ever to visit a Socialist country on a
state visit, and then again in 1970 when,
on two occasions, the President was here,
one on a state visit and then again today,
1973, I think, as you must think, of how
much has happened in those 6 years.
That war, terribly difficult, costly for the
American people and, of course, even
more so for the Vietnamese people on
both sides who were involved, is ended.
The United States has begun a new rela-
tionship with the People's Republic of
China, one which began just a year ago
and which continues to develop. The
United States, in addition, has had two
summit meetings with the leaders of the
Soviet Union and, of course, meetings
with other governments in Europe, in
Africa, Latin America, around the world.
Now, while these meetings, of course,
have caught a great deal of attention
from the press, particularly those involv-
ing the major powers, sometimes what is
overlooked is the vitally important role
that is played by leaders from proud coun-
tries, but not the biggest countries, a
leader like our distinguished guest to-
night, because he, speaking with his can-
dor for which he is very famous, spoke
to me about, then, the relations between
the United States and the People's Re-
public of China, Europe, and of course,
Vietnam.
We did not agree about many of those
subjects, but we both saw the profound
need for new departures, for break-
throughs, for change, or otherwise the
world would be frozen into a whole struc-
992
