[352] Dec. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
This Administration regards the follow-
ing principles as vital to a realistic and
equitable VA pension program:
-VA pensioners should have some
regularized way of receiving cost-of-living
adjustments in VA pension payments tied
to the automatic increases now available
to social security recipients.
-The VA pension program should be
structured to assure that additional in-
come flows to the neediest pensioners.
This objective would involve raising VA
payments to those pensioners who receive
less total income than adult welfare re-
cipients under recent amendments to the
Social Security Act. In addition, a fam-
ily's total income should be considered in
determining the amount of pension
needed.
-Veterans and widows should be
treated equally with regard to income and
pension payments.
I am pleased that these concepts have
received a sympathetic hearing by the
Veterans' Affairs Committees of the Con-
gress. Now it is important that we move
on together in the development of specific
proposals so that full pension reform can
be enacted early in the next session of the
Congress.
NOTE: The President signed the bill in a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 9474 is Public Law 93-177
(87 Stat. 694).
353 Joint Communique Following Discussions With
President Ceausescu of Romania. December 7, 1973
AT the invitation of President Richard
Nixon and Mrs. Nixon, the President of
the State Council of the Socialist Repub-
lic of Romania Nicolae Ceauşescu and
Mrs. Ceauşescu paid an official visit to
the United States of America, between
December 4-7, 1973. They also visited
Wilmington, N.C., Cleveland, Hartford,
and New York.
During his stay in Washington, Presi-
dent Ceauşescu conducted talks with Pres-
ident Nixon on the development of U.S.-
Romanian relations as well as a number
of international issues. The talks pro-
ceeded in a cordial atmosphere of mutual
esteem and respect.
Noting with deep satisfaction the fact
that the relations between the United
States and the Socialist Republic of Ro-
mania have been developing positively in
many fields in the past years, the two
Presidents concurrently expressed their in-
terest in further expanding and diversi-
fying U.S.-Romanian cooperation.
With the view to deepening and further
developing the relations between the
United States and Romania and strength-
ening their contributions to the cause of
peace and international security, President
Nixon and President Ceauşescu signed
the Joint Statement of December 5, 1973
containing the principles on which the
relations between their two nations are
based.¹
The two Presidents also agreed that
concrete steps would be taken in order to
give a new impetus to economic coopera-
tion. For this purpose, they adopted a
Joint Statement on Economic, Industrial
and Technological Cooperation."
On the occasion of the visit, the follow-
¹ See Item 350.
'See Item 351.
1004
