Richard Nixon, 1973
Oct. 26 [312]
ple see and hear on television night after
night, he would do what was right. That
is what made Mr. Brezhnev act as he did.
PRESIDENTIAL VIEWS ON TELEVISION
COVERAGE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you have lam-
basted the television networks pretty well.
Could I ask you, at the risk of reopening
an obvious wound, you say after you have
put on a lot of heat that you don't blame
anyone. I find that a little puzzling. What
is it about the television coverage of you
in these past weeks and months that has
so aroused your anger?
THE PRESIDENT [to Robert C. Pierpoint,
CBS News]. Don't get the impression that
you arouse my anger. [Laughter]
Q. I'm afraid, sir, that I have that im-
pression. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You see, one can only
be angry with those he respects.
REGAINING THE CONFIDENCE OF THE
PEOPLE
[16.] Q. Mr. President, businessmen
increasingly are saying that many chief
executive officers of corporations do not
get the latitude you have had, if they have
the personnel problems that you have
had, to stay in the job and correct them.
You have said you are going to stay. Do
you have any plan set out to regain con-
fidence of people across the country and
these businessmen who are beginning to
talk about this matter? Do you have any
plans besides the Special Prosecutor,
which looks backward; do you have any
plan that looks forward for regaining con-
fidence of people?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly have. First,
to move forward in building a structure
of peace in the world, in which we have
made enormous progress in the past and
which we are going to make more progress
in, in the future; our European initiative,
our continued initiative with the Soviet
Union, with the People's Republic of
China. That will be the major legacy of
this Administration.
Moving forward at home in our con-
tinuing battle against the high cost of liv-
ing, in which we are now finally beginning
to make some progress, and moving for-
ward also on the matters that you referred
to, it is true that what happened in Water-
gate, the campaign abuses, were deplora-
ble. They have been very damaging to this
Administration; they have been damaging
certainly to the country as well.
Let me say, too, I didn't want to leave
an impression with my good friend from
CBS over here that I don't respect the
reporters. What I was simply saying was
this: that when a commentator takes a
bit of news and then, with knowledge of
what the facts are, distorts it, viciously, I
have no respect for that individual.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE
[17] Q. Mr. President!
THE PRESIDENT [to Clark R. Mollen-
hoff, Des Moines Register and Tribune].
You are so loud, I will have to take you.
Q. I have to be, because you happen to
dodge my questions all of the time.
THE PRESIDENT. You had three last
time.
Q. Last May, you went before the
American people, and you said executive
privilege will not be invoked as to any
testimony concerning possible criminal
conduct or discussing of possible criminal
905
