Richard Nixon, 1973
Feb. 13 [41]
41 Remarks Following Announcement of a Devaluation
of the Dollar. February 13, 1973
I WAS glad you emphasized at the press
conference ยน two points that I made in
my August 15 speech. First, as far as de-
valuation is concerned, this is something
that affects the relations of U.S. currency
to other currencies. As far as the great
majority of the American people is con-
cerned, it does not affect their dollars.
What affects their dollars is the cost of
living.
SECRETARY SHULTZ. These interna-
tional moves are no substitute for dis-
cipline in the domestic economy. We must
have a strong budget posture, a restrained
monetary policy, and we must make Phase
III work.
THE PRESIDENT. When people see the
headline "devaluation," they have to
realize we are not talking about the value
of the dollar here.
The other point is the trade package.
We are not talking about another round
of lowering tariff barriers . . . although
we have an outgoing policy. That is only
one-half, I suppose, of the story. We are
talking about the other side as well. We
must go up as well as down. That is the
only way to get a fair deal and a fair
shake for American products abroad.
We have gone into too many negotia-
tions abroad in which all we have done
is to negotiate down, whereas others have
negotiated up. We are going to ask the
ยน At a news conference at the Treasury De-
partment on Monday evening, February 12,
1973, Secretary of the Treasury George P.
Shultz announced a 10 percent devaluation of
the dollar.
2 See 1971 volume, Item 264.
Congress for the right for our negotiators
to go up or down. Only by going up can
we get them to go down with some of the
restrictions they have.
SECRETARY SHULTZ. As you pointed
out in your August 15 speech, it is tre-
mendously important for us to have a
safeguard against the possible flooding of
our markets.
THE PRESIDENT. The United States be-
ing the best market in the world-and
this is not criticism of our Japanese and
European friends-they are loading it
into this market and they can drive U.S.
business out of existence . . . and lose
Americans their jobs.
In order to get a policy of freer trade,
we must always have, in the background,
protection. We believe that the world is
going to be better served by lower tariffs.
But it cannot be that we lower and they
keep up. Other nations must get away
from their discriminatory policies, and we
must be in a position to bargain
harder. . . .
Devaluation of the dollar is at best only
a temporary solution of a problem. That
is why trade legislation must follow. The
trade legislation directs itself at the cause
of the problem, the imbalance. Only by
getting trade legislation and changing or
reducing the huge deficits can the pres-
sure on the dollar be taken off. We have
dealt with the results of the imbalance
with the devaluation, but we have no il-
lusions about the fact that to get at the
fundamental cause we must have trade
legislation.
SECRETARY SHULTZ. (The trade legisla-
89
