Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Thank you,
sir. I recognize the delegate to my left.
STRATEGIC WEAPONS SYSTEMS
Q. Governor, my name is Jon Furman,
delegate from the 22d CD [Congressional
District] in California. I have a question
about the new program for mobile-based
missiles. My understanding is that in a
series of relatively minor and inexpen-
sive changes, the accuracy of our land-
based missiles and the accuracy of
the Soviet land-based missiles are both
increasing dramatically. And we now
have or will soon have the ability to
destroy most of their land-based missiles,
and they similarly now or soon will have
the ability to threaten to destroy many of
our land-based missiles. And my under-
standing is that some people in the De-
fense Department are suggesting a mas-
sive new program to this perceived threat
or supposed threat of building mobile
land-based missiles, either having several
hundred missiles in several thousand silos
and moving them at night so the Russians
don't know where they are, or putting
them in planes that can take off and land
in short periods of time on short runways.
But this program could cost from $30 to
$50 billion, could require as much land,
I've read, as the entire State of Connecti-
cut.
And I was wondering, since we have
our submarine-based forces, 30 subma-
rines, each one having as much nuclear
power as any other country in the world
except the United States and the Soviet
Union; we have our manned bomber
forces; and perhaps, hopefully, these mo-
bile land-based missiles might be a subject
for SALT II or SALT III controls. How
can we justify to our people spending $30
to $50 billion on a massive, new and, I
think, unnecessary weapons program
when we are reducing or we may have to
reduce CETA jobs and health services and
community development funds that-I
mean, I'm from Pasadena, and I've seen
how important and vital those are to the
local cities and the social services?
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Thank you,
sir. Let me ask Dr. Perry if he would, in
behalf of Defense-if you would com-
ment, Dr. Perry?
MR. PERRY. I'd make three comments
relative to that question. First of all, it is
true that both the Soviet Union and the
United States have achieved greatly im-
proved accuracies in their ICBM's, and,
as a consequence, these ICBM's are capa-
ble of targeting silos. Therefore the silos
are no longer a safe haven for missiles.
The second comment then, is, to the
extent we believe it is desirable to preserve
the deterrent effect of an ICBM, we will
need to do something to improve that
survivability.
The third comment is that the Depart-
ment of Defense does not have a program
which we are ready to recommend to the
President yet as to the best way of doing
this. And the reason we don't is precisely
because of the problems which you cited:
the expense, the environmental impact,
and the complication of trying to make
the missiles sufficiently mobile to give
them the degree of survivability that
would be realistic. And we're still working
on that program.
Q. Do we really need any program at
all?
MR. PERRY. The question is whether
we can maintain essential equivalence
with the forces of the Soviet Union with-
out the ICBM. We have clearly an op-
tion of instead of making the ICBM
forces survivable, we have the option of
increasing the strength in the submarine
forces and the bomber forces. I think
1
2201
