July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. No, she doesn't study
German yet, but on this trip she has
learned a lot of German words. She's at
the Berlin Zoo today, one of the greatest
zoos in the whole world. And I feel sure
BERLIN AND THE EUROPEAN
COMMUNITIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bern-
hard Klein. I am a trade union secretary,
and my question is: Does, according to
that after she masters English and Span- your opinion, the direct election of Ber-
ish that German will be next.
FRIENDSHIP FORCE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Christel
Crienitz. I am a housewife. In June I had
a visitor from Minnesota within the scope
of the Friendship Force organization.
What do you think of this initiative, and
will it be continued? And why is that trip
to America still so expensive? We all want
to go. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The Friendship Force
is a project initiated by my wife when I
was Governor of Georgia just between
one State in our Nation and the people
of northeast Brazil. When I became
President, my wife, Rosalynn, desired to
extend this opportunity for American peo-
ple to travel to nations all over the world.
One of the best trips that we've ever
had has been the exchange with your own
city here and the State of Minnesota.
This Friendship Force, even at the rates
charged, does not make any profit. And I
think that now with the unfortunate de-
valuation of the dollar, you can get much
more bargains in our country than you
could when you were there. [Laughter]
I might add that we will continue the
Friendship Force, because this is a proj-
ect that has absolutely nothing to do with
governments. It's strictly between people
in one country visiting in the homes of
the people in another. And I think you
would testify to the fact that it has been a
wonderful experience, those of you who
have been to our country under this fine
program.
lin parliamentarians into the directly
elected European Parliament constitute a
violation of the four-power agreement on
Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it does not. I
think the relationship between the elected
representatives of Berlin and the Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic, where you
have a presence right, but not the right to
vote is, one, a subject that has been re-
solved in the principles of the Quadripar-
tite Agreement, and the relationship be-
tween elected Berliners and the European
Community is a slightly different ar-
rangement. Both these are within the
framework of the principles and the
agreement of the Quadripartite Agree-
ment, and they are perfectly legitimate,
perfectly proper.
TRANSPORTATION OF OIL
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gisela
Zimmermann. I'm a secondary school
teacher at the German-American John F.
Kennedy School. My question is this:
We witness great pollution catastrophes
caused by oil tankers. You are the Presi-
dent of the most powerful industrial
nation of the world, the country with the
highest oil consumption in the world.
Could you not achieve internationally
binding safety codes and regulations for
all oil tankers in the world that would
prevent further such catastrophes and
pollution in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Last year we decided
that those tankers who come into Amer-
ican ports, those in the United States,
would have to meet much higher stand-
ards, including double bottoms and a
1296
