Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of Engineers, to be a member of the Cali-
fornia Debris Commission.
Adsit, 45, has been in the Army since
1956. He has been district engineer for
the San Francisco District, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, since 1977.
International Women's
Year, 1975
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. September 27, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
By mandating International Women's
Year, Congress set in motion a series of
fifty-two regional meetings that brought
together women of all races, incomes,
ethnic backgrounds and religious beliefs
to consider the major issues confronting
women. The culmination of International
Women's Year was the National Women's
Conference held in Houston on Novem-
ber, 1977. That conference was a turning
point in American Women's long struggle
for equality. In Houston, delegates elected
at the regional meetings developed the
National Plan of Action-a national
agenda to achieve women's full rights and
equality.
In response to the Plan's recommenda-
tions, the Administration has reviewed
our programs designed to improve the
opportunities for women. This Message
summarizes the results of that review and
forwards to the Congress the more de-
tailed status report on Administration ac-
tion on the IWY resolutions.
A keystone toward achieving equality
for women would be the addition of the
Equal Rights Amendment to the Consti-
tution. By passing this Amendment, the
Congress recognized the need to provide
Constitutional guarantees against discrim-
ination on the basis of sex. More than any
other single act, ratification of the Equal
Rights Amendment will affirm the right
of women to participate fully in American
life. To ensure that women do not lose the
opportunity to secure that precious right,
the deadline for ratification should be
extended.
Because I feel very strongly about
women's equality, I sent a Memorandum
last month to the heads of all departments
and agencies. In that Memorandum, I di-
rected the head of each department and
agency (1) to emphasize the Administra-
tion's commitment to the Equal Rights
Amendment; (2) to review the Federal
Women's Program in their agency or de-
strengthened; (3) to designate a policy-
partment to determine how it can be
level representative from their agency or
department to serve on the Interdepart-
mental Task Force on Women; and (4)
to provide adequate staff for that repre-
sentative.
However, we must not stop here. We
must make every effort to help women
assume their rightful place in every part
of American life. This is in the national
interest, for we cannot meet the important
challenges of the coming decades without
full participation of all our citizens, in-
cluding women.
As President, I have acted upon my
firm commitment to equity for women in
my appointments, programs, and policies.
I believe that the Federal government
should serve as a model of nondiscrimi-
nation, and I shall continue to take steps
toward that goal. In my Administration,
women are serving in the Cabinet and
at all levels of government. Still, much
more remains to be done. That is why I
have set in motion the Interdepartmen-
tal Task Force on Women, National Ad-
visory Committee for Women, other key
task forces, and departmental studies to
recommend additional action.
1640
