Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Declaration is the cornerstone of a
developing international consensus on
human rights. It is also the authoritative
statement of the meaning of the United
Nations Charter, through which member
nations undertake to promote, respect
and observe human rights and fundamen-
tal freedoms for all, without discrimina-
tion. A long and difficult road must be
travelled before the reality of human
rights in the world matches the words
of the Declaration. The Declaration will
light that road and give strength to all
who follow it.
The Universal Declaration is the heart
of a body of important United Nations
human rights documents: the Conven-
tion on the Prevention and Punishment
of the Crime of Genocide, the Conven-
tion on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination, the Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, and the Cove-
nant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights. The United States signed the
Genocide Convention in 1948 and the
Racial Discrimination Convention in
1966. I signed the other two Covenants on
October 4, 1977. I hope that the United
States Senate will soon approve the Geno-
cide Convention at last, and will under-
take early hearings to permit our Na-
tion's adherence to the three remaining
instruments. There could be no more ap-
propriate gesture to mark the anniversary
of the Universal Declaration.
I also signed the American Convention
on Human Rights on June 1, 1977. I am
proud that since then, eleven nations of
the Americas have ratified it, thus bring-
ing it into force.
The great and noble struggle to realize
the rights of all men and women goes on.
In the face of injustice and oppression,
human beings continue to sacrifice and
strive for justice and for human dignity.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim December 10, 1978, as
Human Rights Day and December 15,
1978, as Bill of Rights Day, and call on all
Americans to observe Human Rights
Week beginning December 10, 1978. Let
us reaffirm our dedication to the promise
of this Nation for all citizens. And let us
renew our efforts as members of the world
community on behalf of the human rights
of all people everywhere.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of November, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:18 a.m., November 29, 1978]
Visit of Prime Minister
Hedi Nouira of Tunisia
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
November 29, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's with a great deal of
pleasure that I, on behalf of the people
of our country, welcome to the United
States a distinguished visitor, Prime Min-
ister Nouira from Tunisia, who comes
here representing a great country which
has close and longstanding ties of friend-
ship and common purpose with the peo-
ple of our Nation.
Ever since Tunisia won its independ-
ence under the inspired leadership of
President Bourguiba, the relations be-
tween the two nations have grown ever
closer. We share common purposes, com-
mon ideals, common hopes, and a com-
mon future. This has been especially true
2090
