Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 16
concern over developments in foreign ex-
change markets in recent days. The sharp
decline in the dollar and disorderly mar-
ket conditions, at a time when the U.S.
trade position is showing signs of real im-
provement, could threaten progress to-
ward dealing with our inflation and
achieving orderly growth at home and
abroad. In the light of these circum-
stances, the President requested the Sec-
retary and the Chairman to consider what
actions might be appropriate on their part
and to recommend any future actions on
his part to deal with the situation.
National Urban Policy
Remarks on Signing Four Executive Orders
Implementing Urban Programs.
August 16, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
thank all of you for coming here to join
us again in evolving one of the most im-
portant programs that we have to face as
leaders in our Nation and the private sec-
tor of our economy and the local, State,
and Federal governments, the different
agencies that are now being bound more
closely together.
Three-fourths of the people in this
country live in urban areas. And I think
it's accurate to say, without casting blame
on anyone, that in the past, before last
year, the problems of the downtown cen-
tral city and other urban areas were be-
coming much more crucial and critical,
and people were disturbed and were los-
ing confidence in the future.
Last week I went to New York City
and I spent a lot of time in New York
during the campaign years and there's
a new attitude, a new spirit of confidence
and cooperation, friendship there that's
really inspirational. This is not different
from the circumstance in many of our
metropolitan areas.
Some of you were with us last March
when we announced a comprehensive ur-
ban policy for our Nation. This was the
policy evolved after months, thousands of
hours of work, because we recognize that
budget limitations don't let us pump 40
or 50 billions of dollars into massive
new programs in urban areas. So, we tried
to evolve a proposal that would create a
new partnership where people, working
together, could make the existing pro-
grams more effective and where a limited
amount of additional funding in new
programs would pay greatly magnified
dividends to our country.
We've tried to cut tape and paperwork
and root out waste that has in the past
existed. We now have a carefully targeted,
well-coordinated, and constantly more
effective set of Federal programs.
Since last March, we have submitted
to the Congress all fourteen legislative
proposals that were encompassed in our
recommendation. Most of them have
made very good progress. Some of them
are now on the verge of being passed in
final form. Others are being hotly de-
bated, and I think the public and the Con-
gress are becoming better acquainted with
the reasons for their passage. But I know
and I'm sure you realize that a lot can be
done without legislative action.
We've already initiated almost a hun-
dred administrative decisions that are
being put into effect now to change the
programs to a closer focus on actual need,
to consolidate divided programs, to sim-
plify procedures, and in general, to im-
prove the administration altogether.
Today I'm signing four Executive or-
ders of major importance. The first one
will help to put Federal buildings in ur-
ban areas, a simple thing, but symbolically
and tangibly it will have a great benefi-
1427
