Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
eral Government, its laws and regulations,
to encourage additional production of
available expendable energy supplies in
our own country.
And, third, that we must shift toward
more abundant supplies of energy than
those that we are presently using at such a
great rate, to coal, with which our Nation
is blessed, and also, of course, with the re-
newable supplies of energy, particularly of
solar energy itself.
The conservation incentives that are
embedded in this legislation are consider-
able and they are very substantial. They
constitute a major step toward a conser-
vation ethic in our country.
I believe that we all know that conser-
vation is the easiest and the cheapest way
to either create or to save an additional
barrel of oil or a thousand cubic feet of
gas or a Btu of energy. Mostly these in-
centives, as encompassed by the wisdom
of the Congress, rely on natural market
forces of a free enterprise system to ac-
complish the purpose. The government
regulatory intrusion is minimized, and I
hope and believe that with additional ex-
perience in the administration of these
laws, this trend can be accentuated and
made more rapid itself.
The Natural Gas Pricing Act of 1978,
one of the bills that I am signing today,
will end 30 years of debate over how nat-
ural gas should be regulated, how it
should be priced. One of the major alter-
cations of President Harry Truman with
the Congress was his veto of a bill relating
to this same subject. This act will for the
first time provide a uniform national
market for natural gas, with adequate in-
centives for producers to increase their
production in a sustained and dependable
and efficient way, and also to guarantee
consumers increased long-range supplies
of this valuable source of energy and also
with predictable and moderate price in-
creases.
The coal conversion and the energy tax
legislation will shift our consumption
away from the scarce resources toward
those that are more abundant through tax
incentives and tax penalties, yes, but also
with tax credits for solar and other renew-
able energy. And they will move us to-
ward a time when our society is no longer
so heavily dependent upon finite and
rapidly depleting sources of energy.
The promise of solar energy, use of bio-
mass and others has been too long neg-
lected as a major source of supply. And
we are cooperating, not only within our
own country but with our foreign friends,
in the evolution of more efficient ways to
use these inexhaustible supplies of energy.
The utility rate reform bill will en-
courage State regulatory agencies to pre-
scribe electric rates so that there will be a
more readily available supply of adequate
electrical energy, that rate structures will
be oriented toward conservation. And this
gives the Department of Energy and in-
terested citizens standing and the ability
to intervene in protecting themselves and
protecting the Nation's resources.
I would like to say also that overall,
these bills, the utility rate reform, energy
taxes, energy conservation, coal conver-
sion, natural gas bills which I am signing,
will enable us to save by 1985 about 2½
million barrels of oil per day. This is not
as great as the original goal in the pro-
posals that we made to Congress, but it's
a substantial basis on which we can predi-
cate future achievements in additional
conservation of energy.
All of you here today in the audience
and standing behind me have earned my
deepest respect for your hard work on this
bill. I would particularly like to congratu-
late the leaders of Congress. Tip O'Neill
in the House, Bob Byrd in the Senate pro-
vided superb leadership when the pros-
pects for success in this effort were very
doubtful, when many people gave up hope
1979
