Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 2
lutely hopeless case before we decided to
go to Camp David. I don't think it's in
that degree of extrernity now.
MOOD OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
Q. How do you assess the mood of the
American people today, December
1, 1978?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the mood of
the American people was most accurate-
ly expressed publicly by the results of the
elections this past month. I was pleased
with the overall outcome of the elections.
Democrats retain a strong majority, at
least 60 percent majority in the House,
the Senate, and among Governors. So,
there is an overall approbation of the
policies of our own party.
people are more directly enhanced by our
efforts.
So, I think in general I feel a sense of
fiscal responsibility combined with a
brighter hope for the future. I don't think
the American people are concerned. I
think they recognize, deeply within them,
that our country is militarily, politically,
and economically the strongest on Earth,
and that we are likely to stay that way.
MAYOR RICHARD G. HATCHER OF GARY
Q. Mr. President, Jerry Mastey from
WWCA [Radio] in Gary. It's been an
open secret for many years now in north-
west Indiana that Mayor Richard
Hatcher has been under almost constant
investigation by the Internal Revenue
Service and the FBI. And many times the
mayor has claimed-
THE PRESIDENT. So have I, by the way.
I've been-[laughter].
Q. that he's one of the most in-
vestigated mayors in history. A two-part
question-
I think there was an expression of cau-
tion about the rampant inflation that
people fear. My own sense is that the
American people want us to be deter-
mined and tenacious in controlling in-
flation, reducing the rate of inflation over
a period of time. I think they recognize
the difficulty of it. It can be accomplished
without a recession or depression, and at
the same time that we meet our interna- gated President. [Laughter] But go ahead.
tional and domestic needs, social pro-
grams, defense responsibilities.
There was and is, I think, an approval
of our Nation's policy in international af-
fairs, the general sense that we're doing
the best we can, not only to provide peace
for our own people-we've not had any
American shed blood in combat in the
last 2 years; maybe we can continue that;
I certainly pray that we can-and the
fact that we have raised the banner of
human rights in a forceful and, I think,
effective way; and the fact that we are
negotiating under difficult circumstances
in places like Namibia, Rhodesia, Nic-
aragua, the Mideast, Cyprus, in areas
where our security is indirectly threat-
ened, but where the peacefulness of other
THE PRESIDENT. I'm the most investi-
I'll answer.
Q. The first part of the question: As-
suming you are aware of those comments,
does the fact you offered the mayor a job
in your administration in April of this
year indicate those reports are without
foundation? The second part: Will you at
some point in the future offer the mayor
another but not necessarily the same posi-
tion in your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wasn't being
completely facetious when I pointed out
that my income tax returns have been
audited in depth every year at an enor-
mous personal expense to me, like $30,
$40,000, just-and the upshot of it has
been that I've gotten a refund, not nearly
so large as my cost, but a refund. Recently
2151
