Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ahead with the so-called trench plan that
was favored only a year ago, we would
have had a vulnerable $30 billion system.
And yet there were efforts to move for-
ward with that.
Now, what we fear technically, the
Soviet leaders cannot rely on. And even
endangered Minuteman preserves the ad-
vantages of the triad and retaliation, and
it justifies the wisdom of our early strate-
gic military doctrine to diversify and give
flexibility and survivability to our strate-
gic inventory.
Many problems need to be resolved:
cost; environmental impact; technical fea-
sibility, since we're talking about an area
that would require the size of Connecti-
cut; security while moving missiles, and of
where they are in comparison with alter-
natives. And when we do the one thing we
can be sure of, the Soviet Union will do
it tomorrow, and then what kind of se-
curity do we have in the world?
And finally, Mr. President, and Mr.
Chairman-I don't mean to take too
much time, but one last point: that the
multiple aim point system, in my judg-
ment, is necessarily tied to the SALT ne-
gotiations, because MAP, a multiple aim
point system of any kind, without SALT
doesn't make sense, since a multiple aim
point system would be no good unless the
Soviet Union warhead numbers are limit-
ed and unless the Soviet Union is pre-
vented from deception on its own systems.
So, both those protections are now cur-
rently being negotiated in terms of war-
head limitation and restraint on the
Soviet inventory and, of course, keeping
them within an arms control agreed re-
gime that will afford us opportunities to
monitor and to check the nature and pace
of the strategic program in the Soviet
Union.
sir.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Thank you,
I recognize the delegate to my right.
Yes, ma'am.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Yes, my name is Deborah Hibbard,
and I am a delegate from Maine. And I
would like to ask Senator Culver two
questions that are of great concern to me
and, I think, to all of us in this room.
The kind of theoretical maze that you
have just articulated terrifies me, because
you are talking about us being number
one and yet how do we stop this arms
race? I think that it's very conceivable
that at the same time that you're sitting
here describing a first-strike capability
over the next 10 years on the part of the
Soviet Union, that there is someone there,
sitting there being very concerned about
the first-strike capability that we have the
potential for developing. And what I
would like to ask you is, where does this
end?
SENATOR CULVER. I think it's really the
most valid question that one could pose,
because, clearly, I think if we are unable
to politically stay on top and cap the in-
sanity of the current arms race and its
proliferation, then the mathematical like-
lihood that mankind will destroy itself be-
comes increasingly inevitable; that by ac-
cident or design and miscalculation, these
weapons will be used. And once that is
initiated, in any form, in my judgment,
it'll be impossible to contain and avoid a
total nuclear holocaust.
It seems to me that the President of
the United States is embarking most
credibly and most courageously in the
right directions, and that is to try to seek
a cap. Frankly, in my judgment, SALT I
and SALT II today we still have not had
any meaningful, genuine arms reduction
in the history of arms control. What we've
done today is seek agreements and
achieve agreements in areas where we
2204
