Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 5
sonian Institution to assume reponsibility
for Washington's Museum of African Art
and furthers an important goal of this
administration by providing for greater
understanding between the people of the
United States and the people of Africa
in the years to come.
It is unfortunate that until recently the
traditional art forms of the continent of
Africa were regarded as having only an-
thropological interest. But thanks in no
small part to the effective programs of the
Museum of African Art, the magnificent
creations of the cultures of Africa have
now been recognized as forming one of
the truly major art traditions of the world,
one whose rediscovery in the West can be
traced in the work of many of this cen-
tury's greatest artists, and one which rep-
resents a substantial part of the heritage
of millions of our citizens.
The Museum of African Art, through
the dedicated work of its founder and di-
rector, Warren Robbins, has amassed a
remarkable collection of traditional Afri-
can art objects, all of which are being
donated to the people of the United
States. In providing for the acceptance of
this gift, S. 2507 pledges the faith of the
United States to the continuance of the
Museum of African Art as part of our
great national museum, the Smithsonian
Institution, where its collections will be
exhibited to the general public free of
charge. For its part the Smithsonian,
which already has fine collections of Euro-
pean art, the arts of the Americas, and of
the Near and Far East, will be responsible
on behalf of all of us for the preservation,
care, and continued development of this
superb collection of African art.
During his last months, Senator Hubert
Humphrey drafted the text embodied in
S. 2507, which was introduced after his
untimely death by Senator Wendell An-
derson and Congresswoman Lindy Boggs.
Together with them, committee chairmen
Claiborne Pell and Lucien Nedzi deserve
our special thanks.
As I sign this bill, I am privileged to
guarantee future generations of Ameri-
cans the opportunity to visit the Museum
of African Art and to look at, study, and
learn from its great collection.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2507 is Public Law 95-
414, approved October 5.
Veto of Energy and Water
Development Appropriations Bill
Statement on Action by the House of
Representatives Sustaining the Veto of
H.R. 12928. October 5, 1978
This has been a tough fight. I am grati-
fied by the result, but I can take little
personal pleasure from a fight among
friends, whatever the outcome.
We took a long step in the battle against
inflation this afternoon. The Nation owes
a debt to the Congress for its wise and re-
sponsible action.
As I said earlier this week, there has
never been a question of the need to de-
velop our energy and water resources. I
will work with the Congress to develop
legislation that provides the energy and
water projects we need—and can afford.
The hard work and dedication that
went into the original legislation will not
be wasted. Working together, I hope the
Congress and the administration will be
able to agree on legislation that protects
our citizens from the devastation of
drought and floods, that channels water
from resource-rich to resource-poor areas,
that develops our necessary energy
resources.
1713
