Aug. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
treatment given to our fishing industry
within our fishery zone. In signing this
bill into law, I do not intend to set a prec-
edent for other United States products.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10732 is Public Law
95-354, approved August 28.
Meeting With State Governors
White House Statement. August 29, 1978
President Carter announced today that
he will meet Thursday at the White House
with a group of Governors, headed by
Gov. Julian M. Carroll of Kentucky, the
new chairman of the National Governors'
Association.
The meeting was arranged in order for
the President to discuss with the group
the energy legislation currently before the
Congress and receive a report on the Na-
tional Governors' Conference in Boston.
The meeting will be held at the White
House at 10:30 a.m., Thursday.
The President expressed his apprecia-
tion to the Governors for the meeting, and
said, "The enactment of a national energy
plan is critical to every State, and I look
forward to this opportunity to discuss the
pending energy legislation with some of
the Nation's Governors."
Federal Civilian and Military Pay
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Federal Pay Comparability Alternative Plan.
August 31, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Under the Pay Comparability Act of
1970, an adjustment in Federal white col-
lar
pay will be required on October 1.
I have reviewed the report of my Pay
Agent and the recommendations of the
Advisory Committee on Federal Pay rel-
ative to pay adjustment. Their findings
indicate that an average 8.4 percent in-
crease, at a cost of $4.5 billion, will be re-
quired to achieve comparability with the
private sector.
I support comparability in pay between
the Federal Government and the private
sector. It is essential to ensure that the
Federal Government continues to attract
and retain qualified and dedicated em-
ployees. The Federal Government's civil-
ian and military personnel have given the
country loyal and competent service, and
I would normally have no hesitancy in or-
dering a pay raise achieving comparabil-
ity. However, pay comparability must be
viewed in the light of the overall economic
situation now facing our country. For that
reason, my decision about pay compara-
bility this year is especially difficult.
Today the greatest single threat to our
national economic growth and the jobs
and prosperity of our people is inflation.
It persists because all of us-business and
labor, farmers and consumers-are caught
on a treadmill that none of us can stop
alone. Each group desires to raise its in-
come to meet rising costs; eventually we
all lose the inflation battle together.
To curb the wage and price spiral, I
proposed last spring that in each industry
and sector of the economy, wage increases
this year be held significantly below the
average increases for the two preceding
years. The Federal Government should
set an example in this effort. A Federal
white collar civilian and military increase
of 5.5 percent would be consistent with
this guideline.
The pay act gives me the authority to
propose an alternative pay adjustment
which I consider appropriate in the light
of, "economic conditions affecting the
general welfare." Therefore I am submit-
ting to the Congress an alternative plan
for a 5.5 percent pay increase. This will
1480
