Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
est the Proposition 13 vote in California.
And quite often that vote has been seri-
ously distorted in this race by the op-
ponent of Bill Bradley. For anyone to
demand, for instance, that the Federal
income tax be reduced enormously, like
30 or 35 percent, means that the local
taxpayers, the property taxpayers will
have to have enormous increases in the
burden on their shoulders.
This is a point that's often distorted.
But Bill Bradley understands this. We are
bringing substantial reductions in income
taxes at the Federal level to all of you and
the people of the United States, but we are
doing it in a careful and responsible way.
We do not want to see property taxes
raised. We want to see property taxes
reduced, as Brendan Byrne and all of
you
were able to do in the last few years. And
we are thankful for that. Bill Bradley-
[inaudible].
Let me just make one other point be-
fore I close. We have a great country.
Sometimes that greatness has not been
realized nor recognized. As you all know,
Congressman Peter Rodino, in the Water-
gate embarrassment, brought a
breath of fresh air to Washington. It took
not only great courage but sound judg-
ment and absolute integrity to do it. But in
the aftermath of Vietnam and Watergate
and the CIA revelations, our Nation's
reputation was soiled. Many Americans
turned away from our own Government
and said, "It embarrasses me." The vision,
the ideal, the commitment that were there
200 years ago when our Nation was
formed, have somehow been lost. One of
of the great responsibilities that I share
with you is to restore that vision and that
degree of cleanness and decency and
honesty and truth and principle to our
country. It's not an easy task, because the
complications of dealing with foreign na-
tions who are sovereign, over whom we
have no control, are so difficult to analyze
and to utilize to meet our goals.
This past 2 weeks, we had a great step
forward at Camp David because of the
courage of President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin. I talked yesterday after-
noon with President Sadat just before he
left. And the peace negotiations will not
take place, as you know, until after the
Knesset votes. But I asked him if we could
start immediately to deciding on a loca-
tion for the peace treaty discussions. He
said yes. I said, “Can we start immediately
with our own Ambassadors and with an
American representative analyzing all of
the talks and discussions that have already
taken place between Defense Minister
Weizman from Israel and Secretary of
War, Minister of War Jamasi in Egypt?"
He said yes. So, we'll commence this with-
out delay.
As you know, we've now sent Secretary
Vance to meet today with King Hussein
of Jordan, to urge him in the strongest
possible way to join in the negotiations in
the future. He'll go from there to Saudi
Arabia to meet with King Khalid and
with Crown Prince Fahd and others. He'll
go from there to meet President Asad in
Jordan. (Note: The President meant to
say President Asad in Syria.) ¹
I think these national leaders, whether
they are particularly friends of ours or
not-and most of them are-believe that
they can depend upon our country, de-
pend upon the American people, depend
upon the American Government to be
honest, to be fair, to keep our word, and
to hold high the banner of truth and
justice, of freedom, of liberty, that have
made us so proud in the generations in the
past.
I believe that we are making great
strides in bringing peace to many areas of
Printed in the transcript.
1554
