Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
It's nice to have a man in the Gover-
nor's office, as Harry Hughes will be, who
is fiscally knowledgeable and responsible, a
man who's campaigned around this State
as a relative unknown, who was not ex-
pected to win, but who didn't depend
upon powerful political allies to put him
in office, who cast his lot directly with the
people whom he met on the street and in
factory shift lines-people who have to
work for a living, people who have ad-
mired the spirit and ideals of Maryland,
but sometimes have been disappointed in
the realization of those dreams and
ideals a man who understands what it
means to have a fair and equitable dis-
tribution of State funds and, I think,
above all, a man who will bring perma-
nently throughout his terms of office as
Governor a basic character, a basic integ-
rity to the politics of Maryland, which will
be an inspiration to all of us and a source
of great gratitude on the part of people
who will put him in office.
I'm very grateful to be on the stage
with Harry Hughes, your next Governor.
I might give you a warning, however.
I was really a little disappointed to see the
recent poll result which showed the Dem-
ocratic candidates so far in the lead.
One of my responsibilities as Governor,*
as the titular head of the Democratic
Party, is to work with Chairman John
White and to try to monitor what goes on
throughout the country in all 50 States-
with 435 House of Representatives races
and about 35 or 40 U.S. Senate races and
about two-thirds of the Governors being
elected this year. And quite often, I have
seen a person with an immense, almost
unshakable lead in the early polls be de-
feated, not because the candidates slacked
off or quit working or became overconfi-
dent, but because the supporters of that
*Reference should have been "President."
[Printed in the transcript.]
candidate took for granted a victory and
didn't go out and work just as hard as they
would if he was an underdog or fighting
a very tough, close battle in the public
opinion polls.
You've come here tonight to contribute
financially to the election of Harry
Hughes. But it would be a tragedy if all of
you who are highly motivated, who be-
lieve in him, and who want better things
for Maryland won't go back to your own
home with your family, with your neigh-
bors, with your block, with your commu-
nity, with your city, and exert your lead-
ership in recruiting a massive turnout on
election day for him.
It's not impossible that this bright vision
for Maryland, this breath of fresh air
that's sweeping across Maryland might be
lost unless you and Harry Hughes, his
family, all of us, including myself, do our
utmost to get him elected.
Do you promise that after tonight you'll
work just as hard for him as you worked
for anyone in the primary; do you promise
to do that? [Applause]
If so, we'll have a great victory. And I
think it's very good for a candidate to
have a tremendous victory on election
day, because this tells the people to rally
to him, it tells the legislature to give him
support, it gives him the strength politi-
cally to carry out campaign promises. It
lets him epitomize the finest aspects of
our political system, the finest aspects of
the Democratic Party.
We've always been a party of compas-
sion and competence, compassion and
competence. Sometimes we haven't lived
up to that reputation or that commit-
ment. But I believe it's accurate to say
that now the American people are begin-
ning to realize that the Democratic Party
can be both. No one has ever doubted
that the Democrats cared about others.
We are a party with the heart. We are
a party who reaches out to those who are
1796
