Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
In 1971 Friedersdorf was Director of
Congressional Relations for the Office of
Economic Opportunity, and from 1971 to
1973, he served as Special Assistant to the
President. He was Deputy Assistant to the
President from 1973 to 1975 and Assist-
ant to the President for Legislative Affairs
from 1975 to January 1977. He is pres-
ently staff director for the United States
Senate Republican Policy Committee.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
OCTOBER 10, 1978
LEGISLATION IN THE 95TH CONGRESS
THE PRESIDENT. I have a brief statement
to make to begin with.
As all of you know, we are approaching
the end of the 95th congressional session
with a great deal of work still to be done.
We are searching for a fair tax bill that
would be simple, equitable, progressive in
nature. The Senate, after it completes its
deliberations on the tax bill, will take up
the full employment and balanced growth
legislation, which expresses in clear legis-
lative terms a commitment that has been
longstanding in our Nation, that any
American has a right to a job and this
right must be balanced with stable pric-
ing structures.
The passage of this legislation was
very greatly needed, and I hope the Sen-
ate will act expeditiously on it. The House
has already passed it overwhelmingly.
The most important bill left in the
House is on energy. We've been working
on a comprehensive energy policy for our
Nation now for 18 or 20 months. The
most important single element in the en-
ergy package is natural gas—a difficult,
complicated, highly debated question.
In addition to that, we will have bills
designed to conserve energy, to shift to
coal-a more plentiful supply of energy-
utility rate reform and, also, energy taxes
and credits to encourage people to take
actions to make their houses more effi-
cient and their businesses more efficient
and to save energy throughout the Nation.
The most important single portion of
this legislation is on natural gas. Because
of our excessive dependence on foreign
oil, we've seen the value of the dollar
decline. Large sums of American money
have gone to foreign nations unnecessarily,
and the excessive imports have caused at
least 1 percent to be added to our infla-
tion rate.
The vote on these bills in the House will
come at the end of this week. The natural
gas bill will result in a decrease by 1985 of
1.4 million barrels of imported oil per
day. I believe that this vote is the most im-
portant that will be cast by the Members
of the Congress during this year, and it will
be a measure of the effectiveness of the
Congress, of our government, and also a
measure of achievement for the year. I
sincerely hope that the House Members
will vote affirmatively on the natural gas
legislation and other packages of the en-
ergy policy for our country at the end of
this week.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
TAX LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned taxes.
Almost certainly the tax bill you get from
Congress will significantly exceed your
own goals. Do you think that a tax veto is
inevitable?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the goals that
the tax bill will exceed-I presume you
mean the amount of money that it will
cost the Treasury, right?
1745
