Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 27
requiring personal financial disclosure by
senior-level officials in the legislative, ex-
ecutive, and judicial branches;
-assure effective oversight of agency
ethics enforcement by establishing an
Office of Ethics in the Civil Service Com-
mission (to be transferred to the Office
of Personnel Management under the civil
service reform bill and reorganization
plan);
-curb abuses of the revolving door be-
tween government and industry by clos-
ing loopholes in current statutory restric-
tions on government contacts by former
senior officials, thereby preventing the
misuse of personal influence acquired
while in public service.
Since the Senate has already adopted
similar measures in S. 555, the Public
Officials Integrity Act, prospects appear
bright for final enactment of these long-
sought, far-reaching reforms to assure that
Federal officials respect the high ethical
standards which the American people ex-
pect and deserve.
NOTE: The statement was released on Sep-
tember 28.
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner.
September 27, 1978
I just heard the introduction of me by
the Vice President, and of all the witty,
clever, intelligent introductions I've ever
heard, his is the most recent. [Laughter]
This is the most successful Presidential
Democratic fundraiser in the history of
the United States. And a great deal of
credit is certainly due to our great chair-
man, John White, to Evan Dobelle, to all
those who sold tickets, and to the famous
people who are here who helped to draw a
crowd.
Bob Strauss, our former chairman, is
here. As you know, a lot has been written
about Bob. Just this morning I was reading
about him. I read that he's the best politi-
cian in the Carter administration-
[laughter]--that he's the number one
troubleshooter in the United States of
America, that he's the least appreciated
public official that's ever been known,
that he has a personal savoir faire that in-
spires the American people to reach for
greatness and to try to emulate him, that
he's one of the best dressed men in the
Nation, and a lot more, a lot more. If
you'd like to read the entire memo from
Bob, I'll share it with you later on in the
future. [Laughter]
One of the other great people that al-
ways attracts a crowd was introduced a
little earlier-my mother, Lillian. She al-
ways has the ability to put her finger right
on the most incisive element in a certain
episode, no matter how small or great. As
soon as I returned from Camp David with
President Sadat and Prime Minister Be-
gin, I had a brief television program with
them, went upstairs, the phone was ring-
ing. Mother was on the phone. She was
campaigning for someone in Arkansas.
She very quickly asked me the most im-
portant question. She said, "Jimmy, is
Anwar Sadat already married?"
[Laughter]
She's the only one in the family that
knows how to handle the press. She stays
in Plains and-sometimes she stays in
Plains. And not too long ago this is a
true story-she had a young woman who
came to interview Mother about me from
a very famous newspaper in Paris. And
the young woman was cross-examining
Mother and she doesn't like women
news reporters very much as it is-
[laughter] but the questions got more
and more aggressive and abusive. And
finally she said, "I understand that your
1645
