Nov. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Veterans Day
Remarks at Ceremonies at Arlington National
Cemetery. November 11, 1978
My good friend and fellow veteran, Max
Cleland, distinguished officials of the Gov-
ernment of the United States, representa-
tives of patriotic organizations, particu-
larly those who are dedicated to the mem-
later dismissed as foolish dreamers be-
cause their dream did not come true.
Today we know that peace is more than
an impractical ideal promoted only by
dreamers. It is a practical and an urgent
necessity in a world grown too small and
too vulnerable to contain the hatred and
destruction that war can unleash. It was
a good dream in 1918, even if it did not
come true, and it is important that we
ory of men and women who have offered study the reasons those noble efforts failed
their lives for the freedoms which we all
cherish:
I'm very grateful to be here today as
President to honor all those who have
served our Nation in war.
It is appropriate that on this 60th anni-
versary of the armistice that ended World
War I, the Congress has restored Veter-
ans Day to November 11. I might add.
that as Governor of Georgia, helped and
abetted and encouraged and advised by
Max Cleland, who was a Georgia State
Senator, our State never changed. We al-
ways recognized November 11, and we
never changed the date at all.
I'm also proud that the veterans of
World War I are sponsoring this observ-
ance. My father was a veteran of World
War I. He was a first lieutenant in the
Army. And that particular war has played
a special place in my life, because, as a
young man, I saw the devastating after-
effects of that war-injuries lingering on,
delayed death because of gas and other
poisons. I wished that World War I might
truly have been the war than ended all
wars, that November 11, 1918, could have
remained Armistice Day for all times, and
that no more Americans, no more people
anywhere on Earth might ever again have
been called upon to offer their lives in
combat.
Those who then proclaimed the great
goal of a permanently peaceful world were
and were followed by conflicts even more
terrible than World War I.
We must never forget the consequences
of failure to create a world in which peace
can become a personal and permanent
blessing for all mankind.
Historian Bruce Catton, who wrote
about the War Between the States, said
of the cost of war, of the death of young
soldiers in cold tents and steaming
swamps, of the grief of "a woman on a
farm in Indiana or Mississippi, learning
that the child who had run barefooted
across the meadows in spring, has now
gone under the turf in some place whose
name she had never heard before."
When we come to honor those who
died, we must remember, too, those who
were bereaved by the loss of those we knew
and loved.
On this day, we also thank those who
returned with the memory of war's deso-
lation, some with physical pain which they
will always bear. They, perhaps more than
others, are determined to build a wiser
world.
It's fitting that we praise especially here
today no famous men. We come instead
to honor those who fought and died with-
out recognition, their names and deeds
known only to those who were their fallen
comrades, and of course, known to God.
So much that is good in this Nation de-
pends on the unknown actions of humble
men and women who understand the im-
2012
