Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
1
taking away their tax-exempt status. I
wonder if you could comment on whether
you favor that plan, or if you do not, what
alternative do you think the IRS has, or
anyone has, to get these Christian schools
and other schools to desegregate?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
a new IRS plan. You may know that I
come from Georgia-[laughter]—and at
the time of the civil rights legislation, a
lot of schools were set up with the real
purpose of circumventing the civil rights
laws, which accepted students on a ra-
cial basis. At that time, the IRS passed
some very restrictive rulings or interpre-
tations of congressional acts or laws that
prevented contributions to those schools
from being included for tax benefits.
So far as I know, those rulings still ap-
ply, and they are very restrictive on the
schools in my own area.
Q. They're holding 4 days of hearings
right now on a plan that would require
schools that are under court order to de-
segregate, i.e., private schools under court
order to desegregate, or schools that have
already-how do I phrase it?—that have
already-I can't think of the other part of
it, I'm sorry. Anyway, the schools that-
Oh, I know, schools that set up around
1970, or when court orders in their area,
public schools to desegregate, those schools
would have to prove that they are having
financial arrangements for minority stu-
dents, and things like that.
THE PRESIDENT. I see. I don't know
how to answer that question-
MR. POWELL. Mr. President, I think
that that matter is in Treasury. It has not
come to the White House at all, even at
the staff level, I don't believe. I think I
know what you're talking about, but it is
at this point completely within the opera-
tion of the Treasury Department.
THE PRESIDENT. That probably-since
I'm not familiar with it, it'd probably
be better for Jody to look it up, talk to
me, and then give you an answer. I
don't know.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
MR. POWELL. Let's take one more here
from Mr. Deakin [James Deakin, St.
Louis Post-Dispatch]. I know you want
to talk about inflation a little bit.
Q. You haven't really been asked a
question about inflation—I mean, here we
are-walk out of here without it. I was
struck by something you said at your last
press conference.
You were asked whether it wasn't really
the case that if we are going to have a real
attack on inflation in this country, really
do something about it, the American peo-
ple weren't going to make up their minds
to pause in this expansion of expectations,
this ever-rising standard of living. And
your answer, as I heard it, was pretty
much, no, we didn't have to pause like
that, we can have our cake and eat it, too.
That's what came across to me.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say I don't re-
member that question, or that answer. But
go ahead. [Laughter]
Q. It was at your last press conference.
THE PRESIDENT. I remember the press
conference. [Laughter]
I.
Q. You were there, that's right. So was
think that. I was struck, for instance, by
I'm just wondering whether you really
what seemed to me to be a conflict be-
tween that and your whole approach to
the energy problem at the beginning,
when you were saying, in effect, this coun-
try had to cut back on its greed for energy
and its sort of wild consumption of energy.
Do you really think, that we can have
our cake and eat it, too? I'm talking about
the question of sacrifice. Do you think you
can sell the American people and have
them believe in your inflation program
without a major sacrifice?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. I've
said many times that the American people
2181
