Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
at all. As a matter of fact, I have a lot
more of my personal money in the ware-
house than I needed to and it was never
taken out for that purpose.
BILLY CARTER
Ms. WALTERS. How did you feel, Mr.
President, when your brother Billy told
reporters that he took the fifth amend-
ment before a grand jury investigation
into the banking securities of Bert Lance?
There's brother Billy again.
THE PRESIDENT. If there's one thing
I can say, I have enough responsibility
trying to be the President of the United
States than to be my brother Billy's
keeper. He's got a mind of his own and a
voice of his own.
I have never discussed this with Billy,
because I've pledged to stay away from
my business affairs while I'm President.
But his explanation was that he was asked
by the grand jury to bring records for
certain dates of negotiations and business
transactions. And when the grand jury
asked him about data from other dates
of the year, where he didn't have the
records, that's when he refused to answer
the questions. I presume that's accurate.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MS. WALTERS. Let's end this section
on a happier note. As you look back on
these past 2 years, what-if you had to
write it in a book, in that first chapter—
and I said the happiest day-
THE PRESIDENT. The happiest?
MS. WALTERS. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the hap-
piest day was when we came back from
Camp David with the agreement.
MRS. CARTER. I think that would have
to be.
THE PRESIDENT. And perhaps the un-
happiest day was earlier that day-[laugh-
ter]-3 hours before we left Camp David,
when I thought the whole thing had
failed. So, there were ups and downs
then.
But in general, our first 2 years in the
White House have been very pleasant,
and there's a warmth here brought about
by history, by our own family relation-
ship, and by my relationship with the
American people, which we deeply ap-
preciate and enjoy. And I hope the whole
Nation and the whole world will have
the same warmth of spirit, love for one
another, commitment to peace and har-
mony and the realization of the ideals of
our country as Christmas approaches,
that I feel now in the White House.
Ms. WALTERS. We'll be back with just
one more question, Mrs. Carter, Mr.
President.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, we have
one final question. The day you left
Plains, Georgia, January 19, 1977, still a
private citizen but on your way to your
inauguration, our White House corre-
spondent, Sam Donaldson-you know
Sam Donaldson-asked if you thought
you would be a great President. And you
answered, "Yes, I will be. I am going to
be a great President."
It is now 2 years later, Mr. Carter. Are
you a great President?
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] Well, one
of the things that prepared me for the
difficulties and the challenges and the
vicissitudes of being President was Sam
Donaldson's constant questions during
the campaign for 2 years. [Laughter]
MS. WALTERS. He'll be delighted to
hear that.
THE PRESIDENT. They're always diffi-
cult to answer.
It's much too early for me to say wheth-
er I'll be a good or a great President.
That's still my determination and my
goal, not for historical glory, but just to
2262
