Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in my letter to
both Prime Minister Begin and Sadat, I
outlined some of the principles on which
we should meet-not negotiating prin-
ciples, but the need, for instance, to lessen
the vituperation that had been sweeping
back and forth between government lead-
ers, to express in a positive fashion their
determination to come to Camp David
with flexibility and with an ability on the
part of those government leaders to act.
The immediacy of their response—they
did not delay at all, when they read my
letter, to say "I will come to Camp
David❞—is indicative of good faith on
their part. But I do not have any commit-
ment from them to change their previous-
ly expressed positions as a prerequisite or
prelude to coming to Camp David.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, your Agriculture
your Agriculture
Secretary was quoted as saying earlier this
week that you intended to retaliate against
the cheapshot artists in Congress who op-
pose some of your programs. What is your
attitude toward Congress as you come up
to the Labor Day recess?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that in
general, the Congress has been very co-
operative and very constructive. I think
any analysis of the accomplishments of
Congress last year in the domestic field
would be favorable. We addressed the
most difficult questions of all successfully.
The energy question was put off until this
year and still has not yet been addressed.
In foreign affairs this year, I think the
Congress has acted with great judgment
and also with great courage to deal with
some longstanding questions involving
sales of weapons to the moderate Arab
nations, approval of the Panama Canal
treaties, removal of the embargo against
Turkey, and so forth.
I have never discussed this subject with
the Secretary of Agriculture, and he's
never discussed it with me. But I cer-
tainly don't have any animosity against
any Member of Congress. I do not have a
list of Congress Members who are worthy
of punishment. I have no inclination to
do that; it's not part of my nature. And
I think it would be counterproductive if
I attempted it.
OIL IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, earlier this year,
you suggested that the time might come
when you would have to move adminis-
tratively to impose import fees or quotas
on foreign oil. My question is, are we near
that time, and if Congress should adjourn
this year without passing what you con-
sider to be a substantial energy bill, will
you do it?
THE PRESIDENT. That's an option that
I will maintain open for myself. Ob-
viously there are several options that can
be exercised, the most advantageous of
which to consumers, to oil producers, to
our own country, and, I think, to the rest
of the world, is to pass the energy pro-
posal as I presented it to the Congress-
to impose a tax on oil, to reduce its waste,
and to encourage more use of American
oil in the first place, and to distribute the
revenues from that tax back immediately
to the American people. This would be a
very constructive attitude.
The second one would be in the ab-
sence of congressional action, for me to
impose, through Executive order under
the present law, either import quotas,
limiting the amount of oil that could
come in, or import fees, which would
charge extra for oil coming into the Na-
tion. And, of course, the other option,
which is one that I think would be at the
bottom of the list, would be to permit the
oil companies to unilaterally increase the
price of their oil very high and to let the
consumers pay for it to the enrichment of
the oil companies themselves.
1442
