Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
portant, nonetheless. They are a beacon,
a guide to a future of personal security,
political freedom, and social justice.
For millions of people around the
globe that beacon is still quite distant,
a glimmer of light on a dark horizon of
deprivation and repression. The reports
of Amnesty International, the Interna-
tional Commission of Jurists, the Inter-
national League for Human Rights, and
many other nongovernmental human
rights organizations amply document
the practices and conditions that destroy
the lives and the spirit of countless hu-
man beings.
Political killings, tortures, arbitrary and
prolonged detention without trial or
without a charge, these are the cruel-
est and the ugliest of human rights vio-
lations. Of all human rights, the most
basic is to be free of arbitrary violence,
whether that violence comes from gov-
ernment, from terrorists, from criminals,
or from self-appointed messiahs operating
under the cover of politics or religion.
But governments-because of their
power, which is so much greater than
that of an individual have a special
responsibility. The first duty of a gov-
ernment is to protect its own citizens,
and when government itself becomes
the perpetrator of arbitrary violence
against its citizens, it undermines its own
legitimacy.
There are other violations of the body
and the spirit which are especially de-
structive of human life. Hunger, disease,
poverty are enemies of human potential
which are as relentless as any repressive
government.
The American people want the actions
of their government, our government,
both to reduce human suffering and to
increase human freedom. That's why-
with the help and encouragement of
many of you in this room—I have sought
to rekindle the beacon of human rights in
American foreign policy. Over the last 2
years we've tried to express these human
concerns as our diplomats practice their
craft and as our Nation fulfills its own in-
ternational obligations.
We will speak out when individual
rights are violated in other lands. The
Universal Declaration means that no na-
tion can draw the cloak of sovereignty
over torture, disappearances, officially
sanctioned bigotry, or the destruction of
freedom within its own borders. The mes-
sage that is being delivered by all our rep-
resentatives abroad-whether they are
from the Department of State or Com-
merce or Agriculture or Defense or what-
ever-is that the policies regarding hu-
man rights count very much in the char-
acter of our own relations with other in-
dividual countries.
In distributing the scarce resources of
our foreign assistance programs, we will
demonstrate that our deepest affinities
are with nations which commit them-
selves to a democratic path to develop-
ment. Toward regimes which persist in
wholesale violations of human rights, we
will not hesitate to convey our outrage,
nor will we pretend that our relations are
unaffected.
In the coming year, I hope that Con-
gress will take a step that has been long
overdue for a generation, the ratification
of the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. As
you know, the genocide convention was
also adopted by the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly 30 years ago this week, 1
day before the adoption of the Universal
Declaration. It was the world's affirma-
tion that the lesson of the Holocaust
would never be forgotten, but unhappily,
genocide is not peculiar to any one his-
torical era.
Eighty-three other nations have rati-
fied the genocide convention. The United
2162
