Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The President met in the evening with
Prime Minister Begin. He then met with
his foreign policy advisers.
September 6
The President met in the morning with
President Sadat.
The President met with Vice President
Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State
Cyrus R. Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President met in the afternoon
with President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin. Following their meeting, the Presi-
dent met with Secretary Vance and Dr.
Brzezinski.
The President met in the evening with
members of the U.S. delegation.
September 7
The President met in the morning
with Prime Minister Begin. Also attend-
ing the meeting were Secretary Vance,
Dr. Brzezinski, Israeli Foreign Minister
Moshe Dayan, and Israeli Defense Min-
ister Ezer Weizman.
The President held morning and after-
noon meetings with President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin.
The President met in the evening with
President Sadat. Also attending the meet-
ing were Vice President Mondale, Secre-
tary Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold
Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, Egyptian Deputy
Prime Minister Mohamed 'Abd al-Ghani
al-Jamasi, and Egyptian Foreign Minister
Mohamed Ibrahim Kamel.
September 8
The President met with Vice President
Mondale, Secretaries Vance and Brown,
Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the Presi-
dent, and Dr. Brzezinski.
The President met in the afternoon
with Prime Minister Begin. Also attend-
ing the meeting were Secretary Vance,
Foreign Minister Dayan, and Defense
Minister Weizman.
The President met with President
Sadat.
Prime Minister and Mrs. Begin hosted
a dinner for the President and Mrs. Carter
in the evening.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or
nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 6, 1978
The following-named persons to be members
of the Board of Directors of the National
Corporation for Housing Partnerships for
the terms indicated:
PATRICIA K. RITTER, of Connecticut, for
the term expiring October 27, 1980,
vice Henry F. Trione, term expired.
KENNON V. ROTHCHILD, of Minnesota,
for the term expiring October 27,
1979, vice Raymond Alexander Harris,
term expired.
HERMAN J. RUSSELL, of Georgia, for the
remainder of the term expiring Octo-
ber 27, 1978, vice Charles J. Urstadt,
resigned.
HERMAN J. RUSSELL, of Georgia, for the
term expiring October 27, 1981 (re-
appointment).
Submitted September 8, 1978
RICHARD T. MULCRONE, of Minnesota, to be
a Commissioner of the United States Parole
Commission for a term of 6 years, vice
James R. Cooper, term expiring.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following releases of the Office of the
White House Press Secretary, distributed dur-
ing the period covered by this issue, are not
included in the issue.
Released September 3, 1978
Statements: support for the administration's
position on the energy issue-by Governors
Ella T. Grasso of Connecticut, Reubin As-
kew of Florida, James B. Longley of Maine,
Joseph P. Teasdale of Missouri, Thomas L.
Judge of Montana, Jerry Apodaca of New
Mexico, Milton J. Shapp of Pennsylvania,
Richard A. Snelling of Vermont, and Ed
Herschler of Wyoming
1506
