Oct. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Nomination of Jane Cahill Pfeiffer To Be a
Member of the General Advisory Committee.
October 4, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Jane Cahill Pfeiffer, of
Greenwich, Conn., to be a member of the
General Advisory Committee of the U.S.
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
She would replace Joseph Martin, Jr.,
who has resigned.
Pfeiffer was born September 29, 1932,
in Washington, D.C. She is a graduate of
the University of Maryland.
Pfeiffer was with IBM for 20 years,
serving as vice president for communica-
tions and government relations from 1972
to 1976. Since 1976 she has been an in-
dependent management consultant. She
has recently been named chairman of
NBC.
National Council on the
Humanities
Nomination of Eight Members.
October 4, 1978
The President today announced eight
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Council on the
Humanities for terms expiring January
26, 1984. They are:
CHARLES V. HAMILTON, 48, the Wallace S.
Sayre Professor of Government at Columbia
University and author of several books and
numerous articles on the black experience
and politics in America;
LOUIS J. HECTOR, 62, a Miami, Fla., attorney
and trustee of the University of Miami;
M. CARL HOLMAN, 59, president of the Nation-
al Urban Coalition and a former Deputy
Staff Director of the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights;
JACOB NEUSNER, 46, professor of religious
studies and the Ungerleider Distinguished
Scholar of Judaic Studies at Brown Universi-
ty, author of numerous scholarly and popular
books on Judaism;
MARY BETH NORTON, 35, associate professor of
American history at Cornell University;
SISTER JOEL READ, 52, president of Alverno
College in Milwaukee and a professor of
history there;
LEON STEIN, 66, editor emeritus of Justice,
published by the International Ladies' Gar-
ment Workers Union, senior advisory editor
at Arno Press, and editor of numerous books
on the labor movement and other aspects of
American history; and
HARRIET M. ZIMMERMAN, 47, a Ph. D. candi-
date in Old Testament studies at Harvard
Graduate School and active in civic organi-
zations such as the United Jewish Appeal
and the Atlanta Jewish Welfare Federation.
Veto of Energy and Water
Development Appropriations Bill
Remarks on Vetoing H.R. 12928.
October 5, 1978
Good morning, everybody. Two days
ago I said that my concern about inflation,
my determination to reduce wasteful Gov-
ernment spending would compel me to
veto the public works appropriations bill.
In just a moment I will sign this message
to the Congress and thereby veto the bill.
This has not been an easy decision for
me to make. It's something I do not enjoy.
But I have a deep commitment to con-
trolling unnecessary spending and also
controlling inflation. And I will continue
this process, no matter how unpleasant it
is, as long as the Congress sends me un-
acceptable legislation which is not com-
patible with fiscal responsibility.
As I said Tuesday, there has never been
a question of the need to develop our
1706
