Aug. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
existing laws, but is designed to prevent
Government actions that would violate
these constitutional protections. In the
past, Government agencies and depart-
ments have on occasion denied Native
Americans access to particular sites and
interfered with religious practices and cus-
toms where such use conflicted with Fed-
eral regulations. In many instances, the
Federal officials responsible for the en-
forcement of these regulations were un-
aware of the nature of traditional native
religious practices and, consequently, of
the degree to which their agencies inter-
fered with such practices.
This legislation seeks to remedy this
situation.
I am hereby directing that the Secre-
tary of the Interior establish a Task Force
comprised of representatives of the appro-
priate Federal agencies. They will prepare
the report to the Congress required by this
resolution, in consultation with native
leaders. Several agencies, including the
Departments of Treasury and Interior,
have already taken commendable steps to
implement the intent of this resolution.
I welcome enactment of this resolution
as an important action to assure religious
freedom for all Americans.
NOTE: As enacted, S.J. Res. 102 is Public Law
95-341, approved August 11.
appropriate high-level Government posi-
tion in the near future. The President
said, "Mr. Zagoria is a talented and ex-
perienced individual who can ably serve
this Government in a number of impor-
tant ways. I am pleased that he is still will-
ing to serve and that he is willing to ex-
plore with us several specific possibilities."
Office of Consumer Affairs
Appointment of Esther Peterson as Director.
August 12, 1978
The President today announced that he
has named Esther Peterson Director of
the Office of Consumer Affairs. She will
assume that responsibility in addition
to her present position of Special Assist-
ant to the President for Consumer Affairs.
The Office of Consumer Affairs was
created in 1971. Its responsibilities, which
are detailed in Executive Order No.
11583, February 24, 1971, include assist-
ing in the development of consumer pro-
grams in Federal agencies and assuring
that the interests of consumers are pre-
sented and considered in a timely matter
by those agencies. The Office is housed
in the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
Federal Election Commission
Withdrawal of Nomination of Samuel D.
Zagoria To Be a Member. August 12, 1978
President Carter today received with
regret Samuel D. Zagoria's request that
his nomination to the Federal Election
Commission be withdrawn from the
United States Senate.
The President also announced his in-
tention to nominate Mr. Zagoria to an
National Advisory Council
on Indian Education
Appointment of Four Members.
August 14, 1978
The President today announced that he
will appoint four persons to be members
of the National Advisory Council on
Indian Education for the terms expir-
ing September 29, 1980.
1418
