Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 25
Civil service reform is the centerpiece
of my efforts to meet the clear demand of
the American people for a responsive and
streamlined Government. Because of the
Senate's action tonight, we are one step
closer to a Government that offers its own
employees real incentives to do a good job
while fully protecting their rights.
The next step is up to the House of
Representatives, which will consider the
legislation when it returns from Labor
Day recess. I hope the House will act
promptly, so that all of us can begin to
realize the benefits of a well-managed
Government.
Death of the Reverend
Glendon McCulloch
Statement by the President. August 25, 1978
Rosalynn and I were deeply saddened
to learn of the untimely death of our good
friend, the Reverend Glendon McCul-
loch. He was a wise and charitable man
whose life and career exemplified the
finest qualities of a man of God.
For all of us whose lives he touched,
Glendon McCulloch cannot be replaced.
We extend our deepest sympathy to Mar-
jorie and the other members of his family.
NOTE: Reverend McCulloch was executive di-
rector of the Southern Baptist Brotherhood
Commission.
Natural Gas Legislation
White House Statement. August 25, 1978
After nearly 2 years of effort, a Senate-
House conference committee reached a
natural gas compromise just last week. It
does not give anyone everything they
demanded-but it is fair, balanced, and
workable.
The compromise will not provide mas-
sive profits for producers that overnight
decontrol would allow nor does it pro-
vide unrealistically low gas prices. But
what it does do is:
-Makes fresh new supplies of natural
gas available for homes and industry
in every region of the country at
prices below alternate fuels these
supplies will replace and ensures
adequate supplies in every consum-
ing State;
-Provides stability and increased mar-
kets and incentives to producers;
-Costs consumers overall no more
than under existing law;
-Substantially reduces oil imports that
depress our dollar.
The President cannot afford the luxury
of exclusive devotion to any single re-
gional or economic interest. Enactment of
this compromise is essential to protect the
stability of our strong and vital economy,
and to protect our dollar and position of
economic leadership in the world. The
President is convinced that the U.S. Sen-
ate and House of Representatives will rise
to their responsibilities as the conference
committee has already done. The Presi-
dent expects that this matter of critical
national importance will not be obscured
by other issues. Now is the time for states-
manship and concern for the general wel-
fare, not for endless contention over nar-
row issues.
NOTE: The statement was read on behalf of the
President by Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy,
at 2:55 p.m. to reporters assembled in the
Briefing Room at the White House. Following
his remarks, Secretary of Energy James R.
Schlesinger and he held a news conference
on the natural gas legislation and the admin-
istration's breeder reactor program.
1469
