Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
In my experience-I train your man-
agers, and in my experience that's really
not true. So, what I would like for you to
comment on is in two ways: First of all,
how do you think this bill will enhance
the image of the public employee in the
eyes of the American people; and second-
ly, since you're my boss, how do you in-
tend to use the bill as a tool to motivate
people like me to feel like we make a
difference, we make a contribution?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
As President, I have some of the same
you
feelings that do. [Laughter] Some of
my old classmates and friends think that
I've disgraced my class by becoming
full-time Government employee. [Laugh-
ter] But I think that it's unfortunate that
the firing aspect, which is important, but
a very small increment of the total legisla-
tion, is emphasized by some people.
I think that the delineation or the dis-
tinction between a competent and dedi-
cated Federal employee on one hand, who
will be rewarded under this entire system
much more quickly and much more effec-
tively and much more assuredly than un-
der the present civil service laws, com-
pared to the employee who does not do a
good job, but now almost moves in lock-
step- -you have an excellent employee
and a very poor employee who come into
public service at the same time. They
both move together now, almost inexor-
ably at the same rate of promotion and
reward.
And I believe that many employees
who don't do a good job now-knowing
that they will be protected no matter how
poorly they perform-will, under this new
legislation, be inspired to do a much better
job. I think we'll make better employees
out of bad ones and superb employees out
of good ones, and we'll reward those
whose performance deserves reward.
The other thing that's very important
is to let the public who are not involved
in full-time government service know
the superb contribution that is made. No-
body can deny that the Federal Govern-
ment now delivers a much broader range
of services than it did 10 years ago. The
number of civilian employees in the Fed-
eral Government is almost exactly the
same as it was 10 years ago. There's a
greater responsibility on those who serve
full-time, and one of the things that I be-
lieve this legislation and this debate can
bring out is a recognition of the great con-
tribution, sometimes the sacrificial contri-
bution of the dedicated and competent
public employee who gives their life to
serve others.
MONITORING OF FEDERAL AGENCIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Evan-
geline Jackson, and I'm president of Lo-
cal 2211 with AFGE. My question to-
night is similar to the first young lady's.
It's obvious that the public feels that gov-
ernment workers receive fat checks for
no work and are ensured comfortable
positions, in many cases receive no re-
prisal for misconduct. But I have learned
from my own experience that in many
cases monitoring systems outside of the
individual agencies are not as effective as
we would hope they would be.
need to have a monitoring system set up
In many cases, quite a few agencies
where outside agencies, such as the Civil
Service Commission, the Merit System
Protection Board, the national labor re-
lations organization that you're speaking
of, could come in and monitor the func-
tions of these agencies from time to time
to see how they are handling the rights
of their employees.
I would like to know if you see in the
near future any chance with this reform
bill of a monitoring system for individual
agencies that are repeatedly accused of
abusing their employees' rights?
1371
