Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
as I stay in the White House, we will
never abandon the hopes and dreams of
people who want to emulate what we
have in our country-basic freedoms,
basic self-respect, individualism, based on
the principles that have made our Nation
great. We believe in human rights. We'll
keep it that way.
We've begun to take some bold steps
toward peace in areas where peace has
been lacking for many years, decades,
generations, sometimes even centuries.
We've tried to repair the relationships
between ourselves and our former
enemies, to ensure the safety of American
people, to prevent wars that might start
with two nations, spread to their neigh-
bors, eventually to a region, and even-
tually cause a confrontation, a nuclear
confrontation between the super powers.
We've moved toward restoring the
relationship between Turkey and Greece,
between those nations in NATO, to solve
the problems on Cyprus, return human
rights to that troubled island.
We've entered, for the first time, some-
times with great political danger, an ef-
fort to resolve the tortured problems of
the continent of Africa. We've got
friends there we didn't have before.
Secretary Kissinger, at the height of his
popularity, was not permitted to cross
the borders into Nigeria, the greatest
black nation on Earth-strong militarily,
strong politically, a great influence, a
hundred million people. Now they are
among our closest friends. They help us
with major projects to try to bring peace
to Africa. This is the kind of change
that's beginning to take place.
We're working hard to get a SALT
agreement with the Soviet Union. I hope
it won't be long-coming in the future.
We've strengthened NATO, repaired the
damage that had been done between our-
selves and Japan.
We've begun to work on the problems
of the Middle East. I think the greatness
of the leaders of Israel and Egypt has
been exemplified in the last 2 weeks as
they've taken a major step forward, and
my prediction to you is that very shortly,
after the Knesset votes, we will see a
peace treaty between Israel and Egypt
that I believe will last for generations in
the future.
Some of these things are highly pub-
licized, some are not. But when you
arouse the slumbering problems that have
been covered up too long, they are bound
to be controversial.
I said last night in South Carolina that
the Presidency is a lonely job. When
things go wrong, the President gets too
much blame. And when things go right,
the President gets too much credit. It's
really an exemplification by the person
in the White House of what you demand
and what you expect and what you will
support.
I'm a farmer. And I observed with great
concern during the campaign and shortly
after I became President that we really
had a 1930's-type depression sweeping
across the farm communities of our
country.
In 1977, October 1, we put into effect
a new farm bill that the Members of Con-
gress very wisely passed. We've seen a
great restoration of the strength of farm
families. Exports last year-highest on
record in spite of very low unit prices—
$24 billion. Exports this year will exceed
that record. Net farm income this
will be the highest ever. It will be up $7
billion or more above last year. And farm-
ers are beginning now to see that the Gov-
ernment is less and less involved in their
own internal affairs.
year
On-farm storage lets farmers derive
benefits when prices go up, and the ma-
nipulators on commodity exchanges and
1624
