Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
or corruption. And I think that this is
a reputation that the Democrats have
now assumed, legitimately so, of com-
petent management, that we did not en-
joy in the past.
And I can understand why the Re-
publicans are complaining, because they
can no longer allege successfully that the
Democrats can't be both compassionate,
concerned, and competent.
MR. MOYERS. If you were a teenage
black youth in the ghetto, if you were one
of those millions of people who are sur-
plus in our economy, who have no posi-
tive role in our economy or our society,
would you have taken much encourage-
ment from the results last week of that
election?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's hard to
say, when you analyze the results. The
Republicans picked up a few extra seats
in the House-I think about a dozen-
and a few extra seats in the Senate. That
obviously should not bring encourage-
ment to anyone that the Republicans
have more seats.
MR. MOYERS. I mean the rhetoric that
many Democrats use, the rhetoric almost
everyone used, in talking about cutting
back, retrenching, cutting taxes, all of
which would add up to a different kind
of approach to government than the tra-
ditional Democratic posture.
THE PRESIDENT. I see what you mean.
That's hard to say, because for a single
person who's out of a job, the most impor-
tant thing is to get a job. In the last 20
months or so, we've added almost 7 mil-
lion net new jobs to the American econ-
omy. We've cut the unemployment rate
about 25 percent.
In the case of agriculture, we've in-
creased farm income, net farm income
about 25 percent, and as I say, sustained
additional commitments to better educa-
tion, better housing, and so forth.
Now, however, there's a general feeling
among those who are in the very low
levels of income and those retired people
who have a fixed income, that the most
serious threat to our Nation is inflation.
And I think the Congress candidates and
those running for Governor as well rec-
ognize that controlling inflation had to be
given a very high priority.
With that comes a need to have tight
budgeting decisions made, a reduction in
deficits, and a demonstration to the Gov-
ernment and also to the private parts of
our economy that we are going to be fis-
cally responsible.
I think in the long run the alleviation
of inflation in a person's life is almost as
important as an increase in wages or an
increase in prices that one can get for
products sold.
So, there is a new emphasis, I think, on
the control of inflation, but it doesn't
mean that we've abandoned searching for
new jobs, nor the better life for the peo-
ple who live in our country.
MR. MOYERS. But it is likely, isn't it,
that if you succeed in your inflation fight,
some people will be put out of work?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that's
the case. We don't project that to hap-
pen. I think there will be an increase in
the number of jobs available every year
that I'm in office. The rate of increase
might slack off and level off some, but I
don't think there will be a net loss in the
number of jobs in our country.
MR. MOYERS. A lot of private econo-
mists are forecasting a turndown by 1980.
How can you avoid that if you really
keep the pressure on interest rates and
housing construction and the pressures to
stop the growth of inflation? Do you have
some new trick in the hat?
THE PRESIDENT. No. There is no trick,
and there again it's a difficult decision
that you just have to balance. But
whether we can continue to build up
2026
