Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 16
make it even greater than it already is. A
year and a half I was here for my first
visit, the time of the swearing-in cere-
mony of the Director, Admiral Stan
Turner.
I've told many groups that one of the
most pleasant surprises that I have had
as President of our country has been the
quality of work done by the Central In-
telligence Agency, and I want to thank
you for that. You've made my job easier.
The decisions that I must make on a
daily basis require objective and accurate,
unbiased analyses of very complicated
issues. It's difficult for someone in my
position to distinguish between the ap-
pearance of things and the actual facts,
the reality of them. And you do a superb
job in trying to bring to me and others
who make opinions and then make deci-
sions about what our Nation should do in
the pursuit of our own goals and pur-
poses, in the enhancement of our own
ideals and principles.
In the last number of years, the pur-
pose of the CIA has been changing. Your
assignment is different now from what it
was. There was a time not too long ago
when your almost unique responsibility
was to assess the activities and the poten-
tial activities of the Soviet Union. That,
obviously, is still one of the important
assignments that you have. But now your
duties extend to the analysis of almost
every region of the world, almost every
country on Earth, our close allies and
friends. We need to understand their
cial problems, their special opportunities,
how we can work better with them, the
attitude of their people; to study food
production, agriculture, forestry, eco-
nomics, mining, labor, a very, very com-
plicated, very diverse analysis problem for
you all.
spe-
I know the heroism demonstrated by
many of you. Nathan Hale, who is recog-
nized here and who died, I believe, 202
years ago, said, "My only regret is that I
have only one life to give for my country."
Behind me in this auditorium are com-
memorated 35 agents of the CIA who
have given their lives for the service of
our country, not adequately recognized
for heroism, some not even recognized by
name, 17 of them. Their names are not
even known or revealed, because they lost
their lives for our country in clandestine
operations. But all of you represent the
attitude and the commitment, the will-
ingness to sacrifice, the patriotism of those
who gave the supreme sacrifice.
I think the relations between the CIA
and the American public have been sub-
stantially improved in recent months. The
relationship between the CIA and the
Congress has been substantially improved
in recent months. Some who have been
here for many, many years have had an
inclination to be concerned about the in-
creased openness, the willingness of Stan
Turner and myself to let the American
people know who you are, what you do,
some aspects of your work which don't
violate security of our country, and there's
a growing appreciation for what this
agency does, what you individually do for
our Nation.
But there is a conflict with which you
need to help me, and that is the balanc-
ing between legitimate openness which en-
hances your work and protects the inter-
est of our country on one hand, and the
careful preservation of security, the non-
revelation of secrets which you hold
which can be very damaging to our Na-
tion if revealed. It takes intelligence, it
takes sound judgment, it takes common
sense to draw that distinction. But those
are characteristics which you exhibit very
well every day.
I'd like to say in closing that I appre-
ciate what you are, what you do, the
high professionalism, training, education,
experience that you bring to your job and
1435
