Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
on the West Bank. Has that letter been
received yet? And would any delay on
that letter perhaps hold up these talks on
the Sinai?
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister Begin
has sent me a letter expressing his posi-
tion, and I've also sent him a letter ex-
pressing my position. Now I think the
next step would be for me and him, in
good faith and in a friendly, cooperative
attitude, to try to work out the differences
between us.
Q. Will you make
you make those letters
available?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll think it over. I
can't answer because I would really—it
suits me okay for the letters to be made
available, but I can't unilaterally release
the letter that I sent to him or received
from him without his approval.
My own inclination is to let all the cor-
alone. And in spite of a fairly dormant
construction industry we've had 5-per-
cent increase in the shipments of domestic
steel. I understand that the Japanese steel
exports have actually gone down this year.
The most important measure, I think, of
success so far is that a year or so ago the
steel industry plants were only being used
at about 76-percent capacity. Now that
use has increased to almost 90-percent ca-
pacity. So, we've got a very vigorous steel
industry now.
I think the price of steel has been held
reasonably well under control. We are ob-
viously fine-tuning the trigger price system
as we get more experience with it. There
are special kinds of steel that might be in-
volved. And we have some problems still
in Europe, because the steel price, as you
know, is based on Japanese cost. But I
think we've stopped the unwarranted
respondence be made public that relates dumping of foreign steel on our American
to the Mideast settlements. We've done
that so far, even when we had differences
market. I think we've protected the jobs
of steelworkers, and we've added a new
of opinion. But I would have to get his degree of prosperity to the steel industry.
permission before we could release the
letters.
STEEL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, your trigger price
program for steel has managed to reduce
the foreign imports. But foreign steel still
takes a large part of the U.S. market, and
the floor under steel prices does drive up
the inflationary forces. What modifica-
tions, if any, do you plan in your trigger
price program?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, the
steel trigger price program went into ef-
fect, I think, only in May. We've only had
a few months of experience with it. So
far, it's been very successful.
We've had a net increase this year of, I
think, 24,000 jobs in the steel industry
I believe that the second quarter this
year, compared to the second quarter of
last year, steel industry profits were up 71
percent, which means that they have a lot
more to invest back into more modern
plants and more jobs for better steel pro-
duction in our country.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us a little
more, sir, about the nature of your par-
ticipation in this next round of talks? You
mentioned full partnership. Will you be
personally involved with that, or will Sec-
retary Vance be?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess that I
would not be personally involved, except
in a case where the leaders of the other
two nations were involved. If there was a
1661
