Oct. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
effective restraints on import competition
but may merely accelerate the movement
of production facilities out of Korea and
Taiwan and into such countries as India,
Indonesia, and Thailand.
(8) Provision of import relief would
subject U.S. jobs in other industries to
possible foreign retaliation against U.S.
exports or compensation by the United
States in the form of reduced import re-
strictions on other products.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
The text of the letters was released on
October 31.
Domestic Bicycle Tire and
Tube Industry
Memorandum From the President.
October 30, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination Under Section
202(b) of the Trade Act; Bicycle Tires
and Tubes
Pursuant to section 202(b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, 88 Stat.
1978), I have determined the action I
will take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC), transmitted to me on
September 1, 1978, concerning the results
of its investigation of a petition for import
relief. This petition was filed by the Car-
lisle Tire and Rubber Company, the sole
domestic producer of pneumatic bicycle
tires provided for in item 772.48 of the
Tariff Schedules of the United States
(TSUS), and tubes for bicycle tires, pro-
vided for in TSUS item 772.57.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief is not in the national economic
interest for the following reasons:
(1) The imposition of import relief in
the form of a tariff increase would not be
an effective means to promote the perma-
nent adjustment in the domestic industry.
The sole remaining domestic producer
has the most modern plant available, and
very little can be done to improve cur-
rent operating efficiency. In addition,
corporate profits are high, and the profit
margin on bicycle tires and tubes remains
respectable in spite of low capacity utili-
zation levels.
(2) At current profit levels, it is un-
likely that the remaining domestic manu-
facturer will cease producing bicycle tires
and tubes. Should the corporation even-
tually decide to terminate production,
much of the plant's equipment could be
modified to produce other kinds of recre-
ational tires made by the company.
(3) The relative stability in the do-
mestic producer's market share indicates
that domestic demand is less price sensi-
tive than is import demand. Consequent-
ly, its market for domestically-produced
tires and tubes is expected to remain in-
tact.
(4) It is estimated that any loss in em-
ployment resulting from a denial of im-
port relief would be small, and that those
separated would be eligible for adjust-
ment assistance. The Department of
Labor estimates that the reemployment
prospects are probably fair for potential-
ly separated workers.
(5) Import relief would be inflationary.
It is estimated that the consumer cost of
the relief recommendation made by the
USITC would be between $4.4 and $7.5
million for the first full year of relief.
(6) The foreign policy consequences
of granting relief measures are adverse.
The world trading community would view
1904
