Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
at the highest rate now or hereafter pre-
scribed by law for grade 18 of the General
Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5332).
1-103. The compensation for the posi-
tions of Deputy Director, Bureau of Trade
Regulation, and Director, Office of Indus-
trial Mobilization, Bureau of Trade Reg-
ulation, Industry and Trade Administra-
tion, Department of Commerce, are fixed
at the highest rate now or hereafter pre-
scribed by law for grade 17 of the Gen-
eral Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5332).
1-104. This order supersedes Executive
Order No. 11759 of January 15, 1974.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 2, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:29 a.m., November 2, 1978]
Veto of the Navajo and Hopi
Relocation Bill
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 11092.
November 2, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I am withholding my approval of H.R.
11092, the "Navajo and Hopi Relocation
Amendments of 1978." I have no objec-
tion to the authorization in this bill to
fund the important and difficult work
being performed by the Relocation Com-
mission to administer the partitioning of
land which has been jointly used by the
Navajo and Hopi Tribes. My failure to
approve this bill will not affect the ability
of the Commission to continue its work,
because appropriations for this fiscal
year
have already been approved.
My objections to the bill center on sec-
tion 4, which would provide for a one-
house veto of the relocation plan which
is finally adopted by the Relocation Com-
mission. I have previously informed the
Congress of my view that such legislative
veto devices are unconstitutional intru-
sions into the day-to-day administration
of the law by the Executive Branch, in-
cluding independent agencies such as the
Relocation Commission. Congress is con-
stitutionally empowered to overrule
agency decisions executing the law only
by enacting legislation subject to the veto
power of the President under Article I,
section 7 of the Constitution.
Where either Congress or the President
is dissatisfied with the execution of the
law by an independent agency or commis-
sion, legislation agreeable to both or en-
acted over the President's veto is an ap-
propriate and constitutional means for
overturning the result reached by that in-
dependent agency. If the Constitution re-
quired less, there would in fact be no true
independence for agencies such as the Re-
location Commission. This principle was
adhered to by the Ninety-third Congress
when it enacted the Navajo and Hopi In-
dian Relocation Commission Act in 1974
and is one from which we should not
depart.
The bill also contains a provision which
would oust incumbent members of the
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation
Commission if they happened to be Fed-
eral, State or local elected officials. This
provision in section 2 has constitutional
implications since it would allow for Con-
gressional removal of officers in the Ex-
ecutive Branch. Further, as a matter of
fairness and equity, interruption of the
tenure of appointed officials by the im-
position of new "qualifications" should
not be lightly undertaken. Accordingly, I
would suggest that the Ninety-sixth Con-
gress, in any consideration of a similar
bill, give due consideration to these prob-
lems.
The Administration will work with the
Congress next year to develop any needed
1925
