Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 20
complicate the confirmation of a SALT groups to plan additional specific steps to
treaty?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think not. What
we will ask the Congress to do next session
is to pass special legislation to permit us
to continue our cultural relations with
Taiwan, our trade relations with Taiwan,
the application of the Eximbank, and the
support of loans to China-to the people
of Taiwan, rather, and also to authorize
us to sell weapons to Taiwan after the
defense treaty expires.
So, I think that even those who oppose
the normalization of relations with China
will favor the continued relationships
with Taiwan, which this legislation will
have to authorize. So, I don't think this
will complicate the other issues in Con-
gress. They're almost as complicated as
they can get anyhow. I don't think this
will hurt at all.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you very much,
Mr. President, for taking the time to be
with us. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a pleasure, Walter.
Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 4:30 p.m. in
the Map Room at the White House. Mr. Cron-
kite spoke from a studio in New York City. The
interview was taped for later broadcast on the
CBS television network.
Consumers Opposed to Inflation
in the Necessities
Statement Following a Meeting With the
Organization. December 20, 1978
Following our very constructive meet-
ing with COIN, I have asked Alfred E.
Kahn, my adviser on inflation, to have
the working groups he has assembled co-
operate with COIN and other consumer
hold down inflation in the sectors of the
economy that provide the basic necessities
of life. I expect their recommendations
soon.
Consumers always seem to be the last
to be consulted about the policies that
determine what they pay for products and
services in the marketplace. COIN has
spoken up for consumers throughout this
Nation effectively, and I want to hear
their views before decisions are made. I
want COIN to be a partner in our com-
mon effort to control inflation.
The President met with leaders of
member organizations of the consumer group
at the White House on December 19.
River of No Return Wilderness
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. December 20, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with the Wilderness Act
of 1964, I am pleased to transmit a pro-
posal to designate a 1.9 million acre River
of No Return Wilderness on portions of
the Bitterroot, Boise, Challis, Nezperce,
Payette and Salmon National Forests in
Idaho.
This proposal fulfills a pledge made in
my Environmental Message of May 1977
to review and expand the wilderness rec-
ommendation for this area submitted to
the Congress by the prior Administration.
The additional acreage included in my
proposal reflects substantial involvement
by concerned government and private
organizations and groups at the national,
state and local levels.
I strongly urge the Congress to favor-
ably consider this proposal to preserve the
2279
