Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
H.R. 10587 will further the national
policy of a sound and balanced approach
to the Federal management of the public
lands. Those lands are increasingly impor-
tant because of their energy, agricultural,
environmental, and recreational resources.
After generations of disagreement, all
those interested in the public lands are
beginning to find better ways of balancing
the wide range of demands that press on
these vital resources.
In particular, the bill recognizes the
historical importance of the public range-
lands to the western livestock grazing in-
dustry and provides a basis for an im-
proved grazing program in the future.
While I had hoped that the Congress
would adopt the recommendations of the
Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture
to require Federal grazing fees to be set
at fair market value, the fee provisions in
H.R. 10587 will bring fees more into line
with rates charged on comparable private
grazing lands.
I have approved the Public Rangelands
Improvement Act because I believe it will
lead to improved Federal management of
our Nation's public land resources.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10587 is Public Law
95-514, approved October 25.
Meeting With King Khalid of
Saudi Arabia
White House Statement. October 27, 1978
The President is delighted that King
Khalid of Saudi Arabia was able to ac-
cept his invitation for lunch today. He is
very thankful for his Majesty's rapid
recovery, and we are honored that His
Majesty chose to visit the United States
for medical treatment at the Cleveland
Clinic.
During the luncheon, the President and
His Majesty discussed a number of im-
portant issues of mutual interest, includ-
ing their joint commitment to peace and
security in the Middle East. The Presi-
dent took the opportunity to explain per-
sonally to His Majesty the efforts made to
that end in the Camp David accords, and
discussed with His Majesty the current
status of the negotiations foreseen in those
accords. His Majesty assured the Presi-
dent that Saudi Arabia appreciates
greatly the efforts which the President is
making to help bring lasting peace to the
area and desires to remain in close con-
tact with the United States about them.
As is characteristic of our exchanges
with the Saudi leadership, these discus-
sions were carried out in an atmosphere
of longstanding friendship, deep mutual-
ity of interest, and well-tested spirit of
cooperation.
minutes. The participants were as fol-
The luncheon lasted approximately 90
lows:
Saudi Arabian Side
His Majesty Khalid bin Abd al-Aziz al-
Sa'ud, King of Saudi Arabia;
His Royal Highness Prince Sultan bin
Abd al-Aziz al-Sa'ud, Minister of De-
fense and Aviation;
Dr. Rashad Pharaon, Presidential Ad-
visor;
His Excellency Ali Abdallah Alireza, Am-
bassador of Saudi Arabia to the United
States;
His Excellency Mohammed al-Nowaizer,
Minister for Royal Diwan;
His Excellency Ahmed Abd al-Wahab,
Chief of Royal Protocol;
Dr. Fadl al-Rahman, King Khalid's per-
sonal physician.
U.S. Side
The President;
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance;
1876
