Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And so, I think that in any sort of pres-
ent or future challenge from the Soviet
Union, our Nation stacks up very well,
and I thank God for it.
MR. MOYERS. But do you think the
number one mentality which you hear
many people espouse is a healthy mental-
ity? Is the whole question of being num-
ber one one that can ever result in any-
thing but an increasing escalation of ten-
sions and increasing arms expenditures?
THE PRESIDENT. In nuclear weapons,
which is, you know, where our competi-
tion with the Soviets is most direct, we've
both accepted the concept of rough equiv-
alency; that is, we are just about equal.
They have heavier warheads; we have
more of them. We have three different
systems for delivery of warheads-if we
ever need to, and I don't think we ever
will have to that are mutually support-
ive. We have a much higher developed
electronics technology; our surveillance
systems are probably as good or better
than theirs. Our submarines are quieter
than theirs.
We've got an advantage in having a
tremendous reservoir of a free enterprise
business system that can be innovative and
aggressive. We have a much closer corre-
lation between the production of civilian
or peaceful goods on the one hand and
military on the other.
So, I think that in the case of nuclear
weapons, we have an equivalency with
them, and they recognize it, and vice
versa. Both of us realize that no one can
attack the other with impunity. We can
absorb, even if we had to, an attack by the
Soviets and still destroy their country,
and they know it, and vice versa.
So, I think that the horrible threat of
surety of mutual destruction will prevent
an attack being launched. We don't in-
tend to evolve and neither do the Soviets
intend to evolve a capability to destroy the
other nation without ourselves being de-
stroyed by nuclear forces.
In the case of land weapons, as I said
before, the Soviets have vulnerable bor-
ders. They have neighbors whom they
can't trust as well as we. And they face
even in the nuclear field three other nu-
clear powers who are potential adver-
saries in case of a crisis-the Chinese, the
British, and the French-in addition to
ourselves. We don't have any of those as
potential adversaries for us.
But I think for any nation to have a
macho attitude, that we're going to be so
powerful that we can dominate or destroy
the other nation, would be counterpro-
ductive. And I don't think that even if we
wanted to do that, either we or the So-
viets could have that capability.
IRAN
MR. MOYERS. Let me apply the multi-
ple-choice, difficult options equation to
a couple of other contemporary and very
live issues. One is Iran. What are the op-
tions facing you there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we look on the
Shah, as you know, as a friend, a loyal
ally, and the good relationship that Iran
has had and has now with ourselves and
with the other democracies in the world,
the Western powers as being very con-
structive and valuable. Also, having a
strong and independent Iran in that area
is a very stabilizing factor, and we would
hate to see it disrupted by violence and
the government fall with an unpredictable
result.
The Shah has been primarily criticized
within Iran because he has tried to de-
mocratize the country and because he's
instituted social reforms in a very rapid
fashion. Some of his domestic adversaries
either disagree with the way he's done it,
or thinks he hasn't moved fast enough or
too fast, and deplore his breaking of an-
2018
