Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
There are those today who say that a
free economy cannot cope with inflation
and that we've lost our ability to act as a
nation rather than as a collection of spe-
cial interests. And I reply, "What kind of
people do they think we are?"
I believe that our people, our economic
system, and our Government are equal to
this task. I hope that you will prove me
right.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House. His re-
marks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
Anti-Inflation Program
White House Fact Sheet on Details of the
Program. October 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT'S ANTI-INFLATION
PROGRAM
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
The Federal Government alone can-
not solve the inflation problem, but it
must take the lead. The administration
will do everything in its power to ensure
that its actions are consistent with the
objectives of the anti-inflation program.
Budgetary Policy
Substantial progress has been made in
reducing the rate of unemployment. But
further progress in reducing unemploy-
ment will depend on our success in reduc-
ing the rate of inflation. The budget that
will be submitted in January will give top
priority to moderating inflation. To
achieve that goal the President will:
-Put a tight rein on the growth of
Federal spending. He has pledged to cut
the share of Gross National Product ac-
counted for by Federal spending from 23
percent in FY 1976 to about 21 percent
in FY 1980, 1 year ahead of his previously
announced schedule.
-Reduce the Federal deficit. In fis-
cal year 1976, the Federal deficit was $66
billion. In just 3 years, by 1979, the deficit
will be cut to below $40 billion. In the
1980 budget, the deficit will be reduced
still further--to less than one-half the
1976 deficit.
In order to contribute to these goals,
the President has imposed severe limits
on the hiring of Federal employees. Ef-
fective immediately, for an indefinite pe-
riod, Federal agencies will be permitted
to fill only one out of two vacancies as
they occur.
Regulatory Policy
Programs to protect the environment
and the health and safety of workers and
consumers are vital. But the achievement
of these critical objectives should not place
unnecessary burdens on the economy.
Regulatory agencies are now required to
analyze major new regulations to iden-
tify and compare benefits and costs. In ad-
dition, the President has:
-Directed the formation of a Regula-
tory Council. This Council will include
all regulatory departments and agencies.
The Council will have the important task
of coordinating duplicative and overlap-
ping regulations, in concert with the Of-
fice of Management and Budget's efforts
to enforce the regulatory-process Execu-
tive Order 12044.
-Directed the new Regulatory Coun-
cil to develop a unified calendar of major
regulations. The calendar will provide,
for the first time, a comprehensive list of
major regulations to be proposed by the
various agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment. This calendar will facilitate a com-
prehensive and consistent approach to
the evaluation of costs and benefits of
proposed regulations. The Council will
1845
