July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in whom we are deeply interested and
about whom we are concerned.
GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Q. Mr. President, my name is Hertha
Winkler. I'm a pensioner in the GDR in
Bautzen. And I would like to direct this
question to you, Mr. President: When do
you come and visit us in the German
Democratic Republic? Many of my
friends would welcome you heartily there.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me first extend my
friendship to those in the GDR, express
my hope that we can find peace and a
resolution of differences that stand be-
tween us still. And I want to tell you, as
I said earlier, not only that the next time
I come to Berlin that I would like to visit
the eastern portion but I will certainly
promise to go to East Berlin on my next
visit.
To visit the GDR is another matter.
NIKO HÜBNER
Q. Mr. President, my name is Wolfgang
Netschkowski. Many Berliner citizens
have asked you to do something for Niko
Hübner. What can the U.S.A. do for Niko
Hübner, more than just verbally protest
to get Niko Hübner out of GDR prison?
THE PRESIDENT. The verbal protest is
made because of the agreement on the
part of the Soviets that East Berlin would
be a demilitarized area. The original
charge against Mr. Hübner, I understand,
was because he refused to be drafted into
the military forces. We did express our
displeasure about this very strongly, as
did the other allies involved, and made
this clear to the Soviet Union and to the
GDR.
As a result of this and other expressions
of displeasure and the realization of the
Soviets and the Eastern Germans that
they did violate the agreement, they
changed the charges against him from
We now have had diplomatic relations avoiding military service to a trumped-up
substitute charge.
with the GDR for, I believe, about 4 years.
And we're still exploring means by which
we can lessen the differences between that
country and our own. We have some prob-
lems with the consulate agreement. But
when that basic question is resolved, then
I think we could expand our relationships
there.
I have visited other Eastern European
nations. I was in Poland recently, and we
have had visits from leaders of other
Eastern European countries.
I have no objection to going there, and
perhaps the next time I come to this part
of Europe, we'll have an easy relationship
with the GDR, which might make it pos-
sible for me to visit. But at this time, I
think I'll restrict my very limited visiting
time to the Federal Republic of Germany
and to West Berlin.
I really don't know what other action
we can take, except to insist upon the hon-
oring of the agreement that has been
signed between ourselves and the Soviet
Union, along with, of course, the British
and French.
But we have no authority to go into the
GDR and to remove someone from prison.
But we have to make sure that when they
do falsely charge someone against the
principles expressed in the Quadripartite
Agreement that our voice is heard clearly.
I think in this case it has had some suc-
cess only to the extent that they changed
the charge against him. But the punish-
ment was unwarranted. It's obvious that
he's an innocent person, and as you know,
he's not the only one who's suffering at
this time. And we hope that this can be
a matter that's brought more to the focus
of the world. I think the recent Shcharan-
1304
