Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 14
Morocco is still in many instances waiting
to be tapped. And its phosphate reserves,
its oil reserves, oil shale, uranium reserves,
and the great agricultural capability of
his country and the human resources are
now being developed in a very construc-
tive way in partnership, on occasion, with
us. Although the relationships are of mu-
tual benefit, I would have to say in candor
that we have benefited much more from
our relationship with Morocco than vice
versa.
It's a wonderful opportunity to have
here a man who understands the conti-
nent of Africa, an area where our own
interest has just recently begun to be ex-
erted in a constructive fashion. And when
the world sat in doubt and the nation of
Zaire was threatened with invasion from
outside forces, there was one nation,
again, that showed leadership and cour-
And
age.
don't have to guess long to
you
know that that nation was Morocco, a
stabilizing influence there, instant action
brought about by strong and competent
leadership. And that's, indeed, the ex-
ample that King Hassan has established
for the world to observe.
I would like to say in closing that we
are very grateful for this alliance and for
the progress that has been achieved in his
country, and the benefit that we have de-
rived from it in our Nation.
It's very reassuring to me as a President
to know that I can enjoy the friendship
and the support, the advice and the coun-
sel and the common purpose which has
historically bound our nations together.
And on behalf of the 220 million peo-
ple of the United States of America, I
would like to propose a toast to the people
of the Kingdom of Morocco and to their
great leader, and a friend of all Ameri-
cans, King Hassan II. To King Hassan.
KING HASSAN. The efforts after dinner
is not good for digestion-[laughter]—
but I shall try to.
Ladies and gentlemen, I present you
the President, Jimmy Carter, not as Pres-
ident of the United States, but as a new,
but close and loyal friend of myself and
of my country.
I never met the President before. But
this morning I felt that there will be
many, many strong ties between him and
between I, because we are convinced that
the democracy and the freedom are the
best reasons for people to live, to fight, to
win, or to die.
The President told you that Morocco
is rich with uranium, phosphate, and per-
haps oil. But before, Morocco is rich by
his history, is rich by his respect for the
dignity and rights of men. And it's why I
feel that President Carter and I, we will
build a very long and large bridge over
the ocean to make our people more close
and more allied, allied not against some-
one, but allied against poorness, against
war, against the strengths of the weapons,
and allied for the prosperity of our na-
tions and our peoples.
Mr. President, I told you this morning
that I visit you with my friendship and my
fault of English. And I continue this this
evening. [Laughter] But I think that the
best conclusion is to explain as possible as
I
can, what is the kind of the friendship
between your country and mine.
And through your person, Mr. Presi-
dent, permit me to pray God to save your
people and your country and to help you
in your mission and in your job.
Ladies and gentlemen, will you please
pray God with me to save the United
States and the President of America?
Excuse my very bad speech.
THE PRESIDENT. Very wonderful
speech. I thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
2035
