July 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
crease in the production rate of coal. And
I think, and Jim Schlesinger believes, that
we'll reach our goal.
FEDERAL GRANTS
Q. Mr. President, relating to your deal-
ings with the bureaucracy, is there some
way that the bureaucracy can help out the
smaller communities in this country who
are seeking Federal grants for local proj-
ects; communities, for instance, which
can't afford the expensive professional
grantsmanship and planning talent? Is
there any way that grants can be made
more available to them or can be easier
for those small communities to gain that
grant money?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so. Just
coincidentally, my first entree into public
service was through the organization of a
seven-county commission in southwest
Georgia that comprised 30 towns or cities,
the largest one of which was about 15,000
population. And also, coincidentally,
Frank Moore, who's now my legislative
assistant, was the executive director of
that planning commission. He and I have
known and trusted each other for a long
time.
What we've done so far is to try to
evolve more simplified grant procedures,
cutting down paperwork, eliminating the
number of forms, the frequency of forms
required for application and for certifica-
tion of proper spending of Federal mon-
eys. And we've made good progress on
that. We also have brought together for
the first time in Washington an inter-
agency task force to make sure that the
lack of communication that previously ex-
isted is reduced.
As a Governor with a regional head-
quarters in Atlanta, I never could find
any compatibility between HUD and
HEW and Labor and EDA, which is un-
der Commerce, and so forth, when it came
to the kind of grant that you described.
And the reason for it obviously was that
there was very little compatibility in
Washington. You can't expect a regional
office to correct a defect that exists at the
heart of our Government.
Under Jack Watson, we now have an
interagency task force that meets regu-
larly, with a small staff, and I think if you
would check with any regional office or
those who deal with the regional offices,
say, over the last number of years, you
would find a substantial improvement.
So, the simplification of grant requests,
the minimizing of unnecessary reports
that have to be made about how grants
are expended, and the coordination
among the different Federal agencies are
three of the things that I could mention
offhand.
The last time I was out in Oregon, I
had a meeting with about 35 mayors-I
think 3 of the 35 were Governors—and
they were highly complimentary about
how housing grants and local public works
grants were expedited.
And we are well ahead of our sched-
ule, both in establishing a local public
works our new jobs programs—and also
the housing program. And this is proven
not because I say it, but because of the
high rate of housing starts and the unan-
ticipated rapid reduction in the unemploy-
ment rate, the creation of new jobs. And
this could not have happened had we not
been delivering these services more effec-
tively.
We've still got a long way to go. I've
got sense enough to know and realize that.
But we are making some progress. That's
a few of the things we are doing.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Q. Mr. President, back to civil service
reform just a minute. You said we were
approaching a crisis stage in this area,
and this morning Mr. Campbell told us
that he's not sure that the civil service re-
1350
