Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
imminent is, I think, not a radical thing.
It's not designed for propaganda pur-
poses. It's not designed to influence the
Soviets, or to influence the Congress to
approve SALT. It's just a routine mat-
ter that is being pursued by me.
I've not made any decisions on it. I've
never discussed with anyone funding lev-
els, in spite of some contrary reports in
the press and so forth.
So, these are basically routine mat-
ters—the level of defense spending; what
kind of strategic weapons we should con-
struct in the future; whether they should
be primarily cruise missiles, primarily new
airplanes, primarily the M-X; whether we
should have a multiple aim point type
system. It's a routine matter. They're just
highly publicized now. But they are not
designed for any sort of subterfuge.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Is Dr. Brzezinski becoming more in-
volved in the SALT talks, and how close
to signing are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Dr. Brzezinski
couldn't possibly be any more closely in-
volved in the SALT talks than he has
been from the very first day we com-
menced them. Any decision made con-
cerning the SALT negotiating position,
whether it was a major position 20
months ago or now, or in minor modifica-
tion in the text of the language, is very
carefully considered by Dr. Brzezinski, by
Harold Brown, by Secretary Vance, by
Paul Warnke, and almost invariably by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff themselves, or at
least the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. And on occasion, I consult with
some of the Members of the Congress,
particularly those Members of the Senate
who will ultimately have to ratify such
an agreement. But his position has been
integral from the very beginning, still is,
and hasn't changed.
We are much closer to a SALT agree-
ment now than we were before. I think
we are down to the last stages of negotia-
tion. Our position and that of the Soviets
is clear, and I think if the Soviets want a
SALT agreement, the door is open to
them to have one.
What their attitude will be to actually
concluding an agreement is something
that's unpredictable. But I don't see any
obstacle now to fairly expeditious passage
of agreement on the SALT II treaty.
ELECTION RESULTS IN MINNESOTA
Q. Mr. President, Frank Wright from
the Minneapolis Tribune. You men-
tioned a few minutes ago that you were
generally pleased with the election results.
On the other side of that coin, have you
and the Vice President had any post-
mortems on what the two of you might
have done to prevent the disaster in Min-
nesota?
THE PRESIDENT. We could have paid
less attention to the polls that were pub-
lished [laughter]-in some of the news-
papers that I won't mention. [Laughter]
I don't know of anything else we could
have done. The sharp division within the
DFL [Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party]
was obvious to the Vice President and to
me. We tried, as best we could, to heal
those divisions following the primary elec-
tions, and were not able to. I, as you
know, made one extra trip into Minne-
sota the last weekend before the elections,
hoping it would help to some degree. But
I don't know of anything else we could
have done to help the candidates, the
Democrats in the election.
2156
