Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
resentatives to connect it with the public
works bill.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
INFLATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, President Ford said
this week that you made a mistake last
year
in concentrating on unemployment
rather than inflation. Do you agree with
that, first of all, and secondly, do you
that you had moved sooner to do some-
thing about inflation?
wish
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't agree with
that at all. When I was running for Presi-
dent, after I became President, I never
singularly attacked the unemployment
problem without also trying to deal with
the inflationary problem. President Ford
left me with a $66 billion deficit. We've
tried to turn that around and cut down
deficit spending. We've been remarkably
successful.
At the same time, we have provided
the American people with a much better
life, better education programs, better
housing programs, better transportation
programs, substantial tax reductions-$6
or $7 billion last year; perhaps as much
as $20 billion this year.
I believe that we have seen in 1977 a
very substantial reduction in the inflation
rate. The last 6 months of 1977 the in-
flation rate was down quite low, 4½ to
5 percent; an average for the entire year
of about 6 or 62 percent. It grew this
year more than we had anticipated for
several reasons, the most important of
which was the high food prices that oc-
curred the first 6 months of the year.
We have always had a very strong anti-
inflation program. Since we have had very
good luck so far, success in bringing down
the unemployment rate, adding 6½ mil-
lion new jobs, bringing the unemployment
rate down about 25 percent already, we
are now able to focus our attention much
more specifically on inflation.
It's much more of a threat now than
it was a year ago. But I'm determined to
deal with inflation as effectively as we
have already proven we could deal with
unemployment.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, you said in your
opening statement that both President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin said
there are no remaining obstacles to con-
cluding the Sinai treaty. Have they set a
date yet for starting these talks? And how
long would you estimate that it would
take to go through the formalities that
still remain?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope that we
could commence the talks within 2 weeks,
but no specific date has been set. Both
Prime Minister Begin and President Sadat
today, when I talked to them on the
phone, on their own initiative said that
they were expecting us to be full partners,
as I was at Camp David, and they could
see no obstacle to the peace talks begin-
ning without delay.
I think it will take 2 weeks to prepare
for the talks. There are some official re-
sponsibilities that President Sadat has in
his own country that will take place and
be concluded within 2 weeks. But that
would be the approximate timeframe. I'm
not trying to be presumptuous, because no
date has been set.
Q. If I could follow that up, Prime
Minister Begin is supposed to be sending
a letter dealing with the Israeli position
1660
