Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
this bill that it was a good piece of legis-
lation. I thank you for that.
And I especially want to thank Allen
Ertel, who, in the last weeks of the legis-
lative session, introduced an amendment
on the floor of the House that removed a
lot of objectionable amendments that had
been imposed on the bill in committee
and brought into compatibility as best as
was possible the House bill and the superb
Senate bill that had already been passed.
I'd like to ask the last person, Brock
Adams, if he would like to make a com-
ment. Brock is the Secretary of Transpor-
tation, and this will greatly impact on
the quality of our transportation system.
SECRETARY ADAMS. Mr. President, I
just am deeply pleased that this has hap-
pened. It was a promise that I made to
you early on. We all knew it was going to
be difficult. And I appreciate your deep
support and that of all of those in the
White House as well as those in the Con-
gress for making it possible. It will make
the average American family have a
chance to really travel. And I'm glad it's
there for you, and we're pleased.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
This is a great step forward in control-
ling inflation. Quite often we don't have
a chance to do anything positive to control
inflation. We can put the brakes on and
not spend money. But this is a major step
forward. And I hope it's a precursor to
what the Congress can help me do next
year to minimize regulation of other cru-
cial industries, particularly in the trans-
portation field.
Thank you all very much for a wonder-
ful bill.
NOTE: The Presiden: spoke at 4:05 p.m. at
the ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
As enacted, S. 2493 is Public Law 95-504,
approved October 24.
Anti-Inflation Program
Address to the Nation. October 24, 1978
Good evening.
I want to have a frank talk with you
tonight about our most serious domestic
problem. That problem is inflation. Infla-
tion can threaten all the economic gains
we've made, and it can stand in the way
of what we want to achieve in the future.
This has been a long-time threat. For
the last 10 years, the annual inflation rate
in the United States has averaged 62
percent. And during the 3 years before my
Inauguration, it had increased to an aver-
age of 8 percent.
Inflation has, therefore, been a serious
problem for me ever since I became Pres-
ident. We've tried to control it, but we
have not been successful. It's time for all
of us to make a greater and a more coor-
dinated effort.
If inflation gets worse, several things
will happen. Your purchasing power will
continue to decline, and most of the bur-
den will fall on those who can least afford
it. Our national productivity will suffer.
The value of our dollar will continue to
fall in world trade.
We've made good progress in putting
our people back to work over the past 21
months. We've created more than 6 mil-
lion new jobs for American workers.
We've reduced the unemployment rate by
about 25 percent, and we will continue
our efforts to reduce unemployment fur-
ther, especially among our young people
and minorities.
But I must tell you tonight that infla-
tion threatens this progress. If we do not
get inflation under control, we will not be
able to reduce unemployment further, and
we may even slide backward.
Inflation is obviously a serious prob-
lem. What is the solution?
1839
