Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tons, raw value, the product of the Re-
public of China, and not more than
150,544 short tons, raw value, in the ag-
gregate, the products of all foreign coun-
tries other than Argentina, Australia,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica,
Cuba, Republic of China, Dominican Re-
public, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji,
Finland, German Democratic Republic,
Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan,
Kenya, Republic of Korea, Madagascar,
Malawi, Mauritius, Mexico, Mozam-
bique, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Phil-
ippines, Portugal, Singapore, South
Africa, St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad
and Tobago, Uganda, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Venezuela, and
Yugoslavia, may be entered, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption in the
period between January 1, 1978 and De-
cember 31, 1979, inclusive. For the pur-
poses of this headnote, the term "raw
value" means the equivalent of such arti-
cles in terms of ordinary commercial raw
sugar testing 96 degrees by the polari-
scope as determined in accordance with
regulations issued by the Secretary of the
Treasury. The principal grades and types
of sugar shall be translated into terms of
raw value in the following manner:
(i) For articles described in item 155.20,
by multiplying the number of pounds
thereof by the greater of 0.93, or 1.07 less
0.0175 for each degree of polarization un-
der 100 degrees (and fractions of a degree
in proportion).
(ii) For articles described in item 155.-
30, by multiplying the number of pounds
of the total sugars thereof (the sum of the
sucrose and reducing or invert sugars) by
1.07.
(iii) The Secretary of the Treasury shall
establish methods for translating sugar
into terms of raw value for any special
grade or type of sugar for which he deter-
mines that the raw value cannot be meas-
ured adequately under the above provi-
sions.
B. The provisions of this proclamation
shall become effective with respect to ar-
ticles entered, or withdrawn from ware-
house, for consumption on and after the
date of publication of this Proclamation
in the FEDERAL REGISTER, except that arti-
cles which were released under the pro-
visions of section 448 (b) of Tariff Act of
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1448 (b)) prior to such
date shall not be denied entry.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of No-
vember, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:23 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on December 1.
Federal Initiatives in
Rural Areas
Remarks at a White House Briefing for
Representatives of Rural Areas.
December 1, 1978
This is one group with whom I feel at
home.
I was thinking, during lunch, when I
was contemplating coming over here to
meet with you, that perhaps the two most
exciting and gratifying days of my life was
when they turned on the electric lights in
our house when I was 13 or 14 years old,
and when I was inaugurated as President.
I think even the days that followed turn-
ing on the electric lights, everything was
still pleasant. I can't say the same thing
2106
