Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dent, it averaged 8 percent. And I want Nashville, Tennessee
to ask your promise as the last thing to-
day, will you help me with our anti-infla-
tion program to control inflation in this
country? Will you help me? [Applause]
Right on.
Remarks at a State Democratic Party
Fundraising Reception. October 26, 1978
Well, I want to close by saying this:
You've shown your confidence in me as a
Georgian, as a neighbor, as a southerner,
as an American. The Presidency of the
United States is not an easy job. But I feel
at ease with it, in spite of the difficulties,
in spite of the challenges, in spite of the
promises that need to be kept, in spite of
the problems that face me every day, be-
cause I cast my lot with you when I ran
for President. I also stood on street cor-
ners, in factory shift lines, went through
city halls and courthouses, met you on the
street, shook hands, asked for your advice
and your support.
That's where my strength comes from,
from you. That's where the strength of
Andrew Jackson came from, from you.
And I hope to maintain your confidence
in me and improve your confidence in
the Federal Government by good manage-
ment, by peace, by openness, by strength,
and because you control me and your
Government.
This is what the Democratic Party
stands for also. And I hope on November
7 that all of you will do the best
to elect the fine slate of Democratic offi-
cers and make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future.
Thank you very much.
Are we going to win in November?
[Applause] Right on. Are you going to
work and help us win? [Applause] Right
on.
Thank you very much. I love every one
of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:18 p.m. at
Legislative Plaza.
Governor Blanton and Senator Sasser,
distinguished Members of the Congress
from Tennessee, Speaker, and Lieutenant
Governor, who have honored me by your
presence, and good, solid, strong, dedi-
cated, sacrificial, committed, determined
Democrats:
It's good to be with you.
Jim Sasser said that there's so much ex-
citement and so much enthusiasm, the
Democratic candidates have such a won-
derful support in Tennessee this year, he
wishes that this is the year he was to run
for the Senate again—[laughter]—almost.
I don't think you could have sent any-
one to Washington who could have done
a better job so quickly and earned the re-
spect and admiration of his fellow Sena-
tors and of the President than you have
with Jim Sasser, and I thank you for him.
I'm not going to make another speech
to you, because you don't need it. And
I've already made one speech pointing out
what the Democratic Party is trying to do
both here in Tennessee and throughout
the country.
In 1974 I was a nationwide campaign
coordinator for the Democratic Party. I
read the little almanac every time I went
into a State. I was going to go to Memphis
to meet with Jim Sasser and some of those
who are on the stage with me, to try to
see what could be done to rejuvenate a
dormant Democratic Party in Tennessee.
The political almanac said—and I can
almost quote it—“The most Republican
State in the Nation is Tennessee." You've
changed that, and I'm thankful for it.
Well, we've got a long way to go. As a
neighbor of yours and one who has been
interested in politics for the last number of
1862
