July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
still in the formative stage, but I think
it won't be delayed. We will receive that
from Egypt, I understand, and then we
will deliver it to the Israelis. Whether it's
made public will be up to the Israel and
Egypt Governments' desires.
My guess is that it'll be a step in the
right direction but inadequate,* in which
case my own inclination would be to try
to bring those two nations together, at
least at the Foreign Minister level, to
search out the compatibility and the in-
compatibility of the two proposals. We
may or may not participate in that con-
ference. If called upon to do so by both
governments, we would.
Following that, I think that my respon-
sibility would be to analyze those differ-
ences and compatibilities and see if we
can put forward, as we have for years,
some compromise proposals which the
two governments would then consider.
If all of this should ultimately fail,
then, of course, the United Nations has a
role to play in the Middle East and has
for a long time. And as you know, the
Geneva conference is the basic frame-
work for peace as a result of the United
Nations resolution, and that's always a
fallback position if we fail as an interme-
diary or a mediator.
So, I can't give you a prediction of
success, but I'm determined, as long as
I'm in the White House as President, not
ever to give up the hope of realizing the
desire of the people involved in the Mid-
dle East.
ACCESSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC
Q. One of your assistants said this
morning, and he defended the practice,
but he said this morning the constant
*By this term, the President wishes to make
it clear that he means that the entire Egyptian
proposal is unlikely to be totally acceptable to
the Israeli Government. [Printed in the
transcript.]
coverage by the press, as in the case of
your fishing trip, where you're continu-
ously covered, is one of the things that
hinders your people-on-people contact
and sort of insulates you from what the
public thinks.
My question to you is, by and large, is
the constant coverage just a nuisance, or
how far does it go in actually hampering
you doing your job?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't object to it. I
was pleased yesterday when we came back
in to see the literally thousands of peo-
ple that stood on the jetty and were wel-
coming us. I would not have been quite
so pleased had we not caught any fish.
[Laughter]
But I think the sense that the American
people have that the President does get
tired, that I need just as much recreation
now-fishing, playing tennis, walking
alone in the woods, being with my fam-
ily—as I did when I was a farmer, is im-
portant, and so I don't deplore that part
of it. We do have adequate privacy here
at the White House when we want it and
at Camp David when we want it.
I don't get much privacy at home in
Plains and when I go on vacations, obvi-
ously, which I haven't tried yet, but we
don't get much privacy.
There's one change that has taken place
that causes us some concern, but I think
it's good in the long run; and that is that
contrary to previous administrations,
we've tried to be open. We've tried to get
the American people involved in the de-
tails of a Mideast peace settlement.
In the past, as you know, most of the
negotiation has been done with ultra se-
crecy, and only a final conclusion of an
agreement was made available to the pub-
lic. When SALT I was consummated with
the Soviets, neither the Congress nor the
American people nor the general public
around the world knew what the items of
dispute were and the difficult items at
1228
