Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
billion budget. And then just 5 years later,
our first $300 billion budget; and 2 years
later, '77, our first $400 billion. And now
we're right at half a trillion dollar budget
per year.
Now, if you look at a graph of spending
at the Federal level, you'll see that it's
running fairly parallel in the early 20th
century, starts rising midway, and by the
time you get to the seventies, it's going
straight up. So, for those of you who feel
that spending a great deal through gov-
ernment at the Federal level will cure in-
flation, you're getting that right now, and
you're paying for it.
Now, let me just-I've got two ques-
tions, but I'd like to premise it with these
remarks. I have a chain of thought I'd like
to share with you. It seems to me that
when we have a deficit budget, somehow
or another government has to cover that
deficit. They have to pay their expenses,
their costs, their salaries, to do business.
So, somehow, that deficit has got to be
covered. How is that done?
Number one is by borrowing, selling
bonds, securities, what have you, at a high
interest rate, so that private investors will
buy them. And that bids the interest rates
up all over the country. Number two is
we print more dollars, and we've been
printing dollars, increasing the money
supply to something in the neighborhood
of 9 percent, as I understand it, per year,
the last couple of years, which means that
as we print more dollars through the Fed-
eral Reserve and put them into circula-
tion, we're watering down the value of all
the dollars that are already in circulation,
not just in the United States but all over
the country, all over the world.
And so, the dollar goes down and de-
clines in all the money markets, the dol-
lar bills that you and I have in our
pockets are worth less and less. So, prices
go up, because the merchants who are
providing goods and services need to get
more dollars to cover the same purchas-
ing power they were getting before. And
so, when their prices go up, the people
start demanding pay raises to keep pace
with it, and they get their pay raises, and
so, then we do have the spiral that re-
sults.
I say wages and prices are a symptom
of inflation; they're not inflation them-
selves, and that's the reason why controls
cannot work. That's the reason why I cer-
tainly support voluntary plan, because
that can't do any great harm. It may even
help, but it certainly isn't the solution to
inflation. It's right up there in Congress.
Now, our politicians cannot blame the
farmers, they can't blame the labor
unions, you can't blame the oil com-
panies, you can't blame anyone else in
the private sector for the very core, root
cause of inflation, because the true cause
is up in Washington, D.C., with the policy
we've had for so many years, of not just
deficit spending, but since 1974, we
haven't had a single deficit that was less
than $30 billion. So, that is-
Q. Question?
Q. All right. With those, my two ques-
tions are this: First of all, why was the
Nunn amendment to the tax cut bill re-
jected when you had both the Senate and
the House supporting it overwhelmingly,
and it called for a balanced budget over a
5-year plan with spending limitations and
with tax reductions that would go into
effect only if those spending limitations
were met?
And secondly, my second question is,
how will the wage insurance plan—that's
part of the administration's anti-inflation
program-how will it be paid for? My un-
derstanding is that you'd be paying some-
thing like 1 percent over a person who
gets no more salary raise than 7 percent,
through his salary, which, in my under-
2211
