Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
public officials-Presidents, Vice Presi-
dents, Cabinet members, all the Members
of Congress, the Federal judges—to re-
veal to you every year what their net
worth is, what their income is, where it
comes from, just to make sure we remove
all temptation for Federal Government
officials to perform illegally or to betray
your trust in them.
We have reorganized the Federal Gov-
ernment. We've tried to bring some order
into the civil service system. In over 95
years, nobody had tackled the civil serv-
ice system. We've got fine, decent, even
self-sacrificial public servants. They want
to do a good job. But they couldn't do it,
because the bureaucracy had them con-
strained. You'd have two people sitting
side by side at adjacent desks, one of them
competent, eager, hard-working, consci-
entious; the other one either incompetent
or lazy. They got the same recognition,
the same salary, the same promotions.
And you could imagine how this affects
civil servants.
So, we passed a reform bill, first time,
as I said, in 95 years. Now that good em-
ployee will be rewarded, and the other
employee will either be inspired to do
better or be transferred or fired. And we
also are going to make managers manage.
The most serious problem that I have
other than the security of our Nation is
inflation. I'm determined to keep Federal
spending down. I'm determined to keep
the bureaucracy efficient. I'm determined
to encourage State and local governments
to join in with me to get the Congress to
pass legislation like the hospital cost con-
tainment bill that didn't pass this year.
I'm determined to inspire employers to
hold their prices down and workers,
knowing that prices are going to be held
down, to restrain their wage demands. I
need your help in doing this. It's not going
to be easy. It's not going to be quick. But
it's vitally important that we succeed.
One thing we are trying to do is to get
the Government's nose out of the peo-
ple's business. I believe in the free enter-
prise system. I believe in the free enter-
prise system, but too long, the regulatory
agencies, that were designed originally to
protect consumers, have been cheating
consumers and protecting the very cor-
porations that are so powerful that they
were supposed to regulate.
We've tried a good experiment this
year. With the Congress help, we've
worked on the airline industry. We have
deregulated the airline industry. Rates
went down. Passengers and goods hauled
went way up. Profits went up as well. And
that's just the kind of thing we're going
to do in the future to other industries.
So, if you will help me, we'll control
inflation together, and that'll solve the
last major domestic issue we have. It'll
also provide more jobs in the process. Will
you help me with that? [Applause] Right
on. I thank you.
And now I'd like to close by saying
this: On international affairs, of course,
this is a unique responsibility of a Presi-
dent, to keep our Nation strong. Militar-
ily, we're the strongest nation on Earth.
We're going to stay there. We are going
to stay there, because, through strength,
mendous, around the world, not only to
we can use our influence, which is tre-
keep peace for our own people but to give
peace to others.
We're negotiating now a SALT agree-
ment with the Soviet Union to cut down
the threat of nuclear weapons destroying
us all. The Congress passed a very good
bill this year, nonproliferation, it's called,
to prevent nations that don't have atomic
explosives from ever having them.
We're working in Africa to try to bring
peace there instead of bloodshed. And I'm
1886
