Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 27
whatever God-given talent they might
own and use those talents to the utmost.
We've corrected some of the defects in
our party. In the past, at least in the
South, where I come from, we've always
had the image of a party with a big heart.
Our Members of Congress, even our most
conservative Senators, have always voted
for social security, Medicaid, Medicare,
to give people a chance in life. But quite
often we've had the wrong impression in
the minds of the American people about
our party's commitment to effective man-
agement, how to make government be
efficient.
And after the last few years of em-
barrassment under Republican adminis-
trations, I thought it was particularly im-
portant for us in this new administration
to run the Government well, to take con-
trol of it and let the people know that
someone was in command. And the part-
nership that we have between the execu-
tive and the legislative branches of Gov-
ernment now are proving that we have
achieved that very difficult task success-
fully.
Republicans talk about tax cuts. Demo-
crats cut taxes. Republicans talk about
balanced budgets, and they run up huge
deficits, which we inherited. Democrats
draw up responsible budgets, and we cut
back Republican deficits. Any person
who's lucky enough to be President and
smart enough to be a Democrat-[laugh-
ter]-knows that his success, my success, is
based on our long party history of great
national and international purpose-the
desire to keep the United States sound
and strong; the desire to assure peace and
liberty throughout the world; the desire
to help those who are poor and weak and
timid and inarticulate; the desire for
vigorous and sustained and economic
growth to give us confidence in the future;
the desire to protect our great American
natural beauty of pure air, of clean water;
the desire to keep power, political power,
where it belongs, in the hands of our
people, in the hands of government closest
to the people, no matter whether they
might be young or old, consumers or pro-
ducers, wage earners, retired people,
farmers, city dwellers.
We not only reach out to people but
we bring them into the heart of things,
into our hearts individually and personal-
ly and into the heart of our political or-
ganization to let their own lives be magni-
fied and influenced. This is the essence of
the Democratic Party, the party of
Thomas Jefferson.
That's why our party produces great
leaders like my colleague, Fritz Mondale,
the best Vice President I guess this coun-
try has ever had. Others have had perhaps
equal potential. I don't know about that.
But Fritz takes on the full duties of a
President on occasion. He's an equal part-
ner with me. There's nothing that I do
that he doesn't share.
Our great Speaker, Tip O'Neill, who
preceded Fritz Mondale, Majority Leader
Bob Byrd, who won a remarkable victory
today in the Senate and I thank him
for it-Jim Wright, Alan Cranston, all of
our Democratic leaders in the House and
Senate, chairmen and other members who
have constructed already for the 95th
Congress a superb record—we have a
Congress that will not be forgotten.
The people won't forget that Congress
helped to shore up crucial partnerships,
crucial to us with our historic allies
around the world who had begun to feel
neglected. They won't forget the Congress
that worked with me to strengthen NATO
and to strengthen our defense around the
world. They won't forget the Congress
which has helped to restore the moral au-
thority of our Nation.
As I've said recently in some campaign
speeches, when I was Governor of Geor-
gia, when I was a candidate, I actually
1647
