Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 27
Full Employment and
Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act Bills
Remarks on Signing H.R. 50 and S. 2570 Into
Law. October 27, 1978
ably chaired by Coretta King, and also
to the Congressional Black Caucus, under
the leadership of Parren Mitchell, to
House Speaker Tip O'Neill, and to Sen-
ate Majority Leader Bob Byrd, whose un-
flagging support and hard work in the
final few hours of the legislative session
THE PRESIDENT. I see a lot of smiling translated these two legislative proposals
faces. [Laughter]
With the signing of this Full Employ-
ment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978,
this Nation is putting its long-term eco-
nomic goal of full employment with stable
prices into law. This act requires that the
Congress and the President and the Fed-
eral Reserve Board cooperate in probably
an unprecedented way in indicating each
year the policies that will be followed to
achieve these goals.
This was the last major piece of legis-
lation among many important acts that
bore the name of a great and compassion-
ate American, Hubert Humphrey.
I think everyone agrees that he's with
us in spirit. He knew how destructive un-
employment was to our Nation and to
individual American citizens who could
not find a way to utilize the talent that
God had given them. He knew how im-
portant it was to the social and economic
fabric of our Nation to have people em-
ployed. He dreamed of the day when
everyone who wanted a job could find a
job.
Congressman Gus Hawkins, who co-
authored this legislation, from its very in-
ception continued in an effective and a
yeoman's way to guide the leadership in
the House to pass this legislation. And
then, of course, he was joined with a very
effective ally in the Senate, Muriel Hum-
phrey. And we derived success because of
their great work.
I want to express my thanks to the Full
Employment Action Council, which was
into the bills which I am about to sign.
And I would also like to thank Leon
Keyserling, whose work in drafting this
legislation and his persistence in seeing it
through to a successful conclusion helped
to make this fine day possible-[ap-
plause] go ahead and applaud for them
all.
The unemployment rate in our country
was 8 percent on Election Day in 1976.
And one of my first actions as President,
working with Senator Humphrey and
others, was to propose legislation to put
Americans back to work.
A part of that legislation created the
largest public service jobs program and
the largest training program, combined,
in the history of our country since the New
Deal days of the Great Depression. The
results have been dramatic. Unemploy-
ment has been reduced 25 percent, more
than 62 million new jobs have been
created, a record not matched in so short
a period of time in the 200-year history of
our country, even during wartime. Over
12 million Americans have been taken
off the unemployment rolls.
I'm also signing today the Comprehen-
sive Employment and Training Act
Amendments of 1978, because the pro-
grams in it provide major tools in our
effort to reach the unemployment goals of
the Humphrey-Hawkins bill by 1983.
I'm pleased that the Congress has
passed our recommendations to extend
CETA and more sharply to target its pro-
grams to those who are most in need of
help.
1871
