Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
project accurately what we are trying to
do.
And there are obviously many reports
that come out in a newspaper, perhaps on
a television program, that are completely
erroneous, just based on facts that are
wrong. And we try to correct those. But I
think that the doubt and suspicion about
me, because I had not ever lived in Wash-
ington, not ever served in the Federal
Government, and was a southerner, a
Baptist, most of those have been alleviated
now with better communication and
knowledge of what I have done and a
record to be assessed.
And I think there's been a fairly good
transition after some, about a year of
rough places with the press and with the
public. I feel better now than I did 6
months ago.
MRS. CARTER. There are still some
frustrations, things that we-they're not
misconceptions, but frustrations about
things that we want people to know.
Something that happened this week to
me, for instance--I went to the opening
of a conference on childhood immuniza-
not been immunized will think about it;
it'll focus some attention on it.
So, those kinds of frustrations we have.
Ms. WALTERS. Well, stories are selec-
tive, and it's usually the more sensational
ones. And the public complains to the
press about that as well.
CHIP AND CARON CARTER
You've talked a great deal about what
you've enjoyed in the White House and
that, if anything, it's given you two more
time to be together, more time with Amy.
But one does wonder sometimes about the
price that one pays when a husband and a
father becomes President.
And I almost feel funny about asking
you this, except that it has been written
about and talked about so much, and
that's the separation of your son Chip and
your daughter-in-law Caron, which obvi-
ously must grieve you as parents. And it's
been suggested that if he had not lived in
the White House, that if he had not been
exposed to some of the social conditions
of living in this city-I'm sure you have
read this—that perhaps it wouldn't have
happened.
tion. Joe Califano started a program last
year. I called him because I was concerned
about it. And Mrs. Dale Bumpers, who's
a good friend of mine-her husband was Do you feel that this may have been the
Governor of Arkansas while Jimmy was
Governor, now he's in the Senate-had
worked on childhood immunization for
years. And so we called on Joe Califano.
He started a program last April.
The results of that have been dramatic.
And we had a meeting this week to talk
about what is happening in the country—
the immunizations have gone up, the in-
cidence of disease has dropped. We had a
great conference, a great meeting. We
didn't read one word about it.
It's not so important that I get pub-
licity or that people know what I'm doing.
But when people see that and read it,
then those who have children who have
Do you feel a particular responsibility?
case?
THE PRESIDENT. Do you want me to
answer it or Rosalynn? Go ahead, Rosa-
lynn.
MRS. CARTER. I don't think because we
live here we are immune from problems
that other families have. But I think our
family has grown closer together because
of the experiences we share. And I love
Chip and I love Caron, and I want them
both to be happy.
I think that we made some statements
about their decision at the time and have
not said anything more public about it.
But I don't think the-I have been very
proud of my children in the way they have
2259
