Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion. From 1957 to 1967, he was a part-
ner in the law firm of Belnap, Spencer,
Hardy & Freeman, which represented in-
dustries, railroads, barge lines, and motor
carriers before the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Since 1967 Freeman has been with the
Chicago and North Western Transporta-
tion Co. (formerly the Chicago and North
Western Railway Co.), serving as vice
president-law; as one of three trustees,
voting the Class A common stock, most
of which is owned by employees of the
company; and one of three members of
the executive committee of the board.
Freeman was one of two persons who
worked out the formation of the Chicago
and North Western Transportation Co.
and the employee purchase of the Chicago
and North Western Railway Co. in 1972.
Child Health Day, 1978
Proclamation 4587. August 17, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On this, the 50th anniversary of the
first Child Health Day, it is appropriate
to reaffirm our strong commitment to the
health and well-being of our Nation's
children. Our children are our future.
We all bear responsibility for assuring
that they are as healthy as the healing arts
permit.
After 50 years, barriers to child health
care persist. The problems are now more
social than technological: unequal distri-
bution of medical personnel, inadequate
access to medical services, and continuing
diet problems still plague our poorer fami-
lies. Despite a dramatic reduction in our
infant mortality rate in recent decades,
children in some parts of the country still
suffer far more than children elsewhere.
This geographic inequity persists to adult-
hood and these same areas generally have
a higher percentage of handicapped in-
dividuals as well as higher infant and
child mortality rates.
We need to nurture all our children.
Until mothers and children throughout
the nation have equal access to compre-
hensive health care we can't claim to
have met our responsibilities.
This is particularly important for
youngsters who suffer physical, emotional
or developmental handicaps. Adequate
research and rehabilitative programs are
essential for these children but all chil-
dren need our vigilant concern. Ulti-
mately, our goal is a nation of vibrantly
healthy youngsters, psychologically and
physically fit to meet any future demand.
In 1979 the United States will join
other nations in observing the United Na-
tions International Year of the Child.
This will provide a chance to focus world
attention on the special needs of children.
Let us make this a significant year of
progress in our own Nation so that we
set an example for all others.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Monday, October 2,
1978, as Child Health Day. I am asking
all the citizens of this Nation at home and
abroad to unite with me in pledging our
support of activities which provide for
every child the promotion of health, ac-
cessible comprehensive health care serv-
ices, physical and mental recreation, and
the extension of cultural traditions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day
of August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
1450
