Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 6
I
semi-annual reports on CSCE imple-
mentation as well as offering your full
cooperation to the Commission, which is
preparing its own special report on United
States implementation of the Helsinki
Final Act.
JIMMY CARTER
Indochinese Refugees
Memorandum From the President.
December 6, 1978
Presidential Determination No. 79-1
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination pursuant to Sec-
tion 2(c)(1) of the Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended,
(The "Act"), authorizing the use of
$5,000,000 of funds made available from
the United States Emergency Refugee
and Migration Assistance Fund.
In order to meet unexpected urgent
needs arising in connection with the re-
sponsibilty of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees to provide
care and maintenance for Indochinese re-
fugees in first asylum, I hereby determine,
pursuant to Section 2(c) (1) of the Act,
that it is important to the national interest
that up to $5,000,000 from the United
States Emergency Refugee and Migra-
tion Assistance fund be made available
through the Department of State for this
purpose.
The Secretary of State is requested to
inform the appropriate committees of the
Congress of this Determination and the
obligation of funds made under this au-
thority.
The Determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:16 p.m., December 13, 1978]
Dinner for Newly Elected
Members of Congress
Remarks at the White House Dinner.
December 6, 1978
I'm glad you stood up so I could find
Bill Bradley. Everybody at my table said,
"We don't want your autograph; we
want to meet Bill Bradley." [Laughter]
First of all, let me say that we're very
delighted, both Rosalynn and me, and
Fritz Mondale and his wife, Joan, to have
you come to the White House to get ac-
quainted with one another and also to let
us get to know some of you.
This is a special night, particularly in
the lives of Members of the House of
Representatives. It's the last night that
you will spend before you begin to run
for reelection. [Laughter] And we partic-
ularly wanted you to spend it with us.
I know everyone here has different am-
bitions, different thoughts about what
Washington will be in your own life. I
never came to Washington, except as a
tourist, before I came to be inaugurated
as President. And what I wanted to dis-
cover was how a southerner could come
to Washington and run the Federal Gov-
ernment. And I have learned-some-
times the hard way-it's been very in-
triguing watching [Senator] Russell Long
operate. [Laughter] I thought eventually
I could start taking over, but it hasn't
happened yet. [Laughter]
All of us have been greatly honored by
the finest people on Earth, given a chance
to work as Democrats and Republicans,
but in harmony when the vital interests
of our country are at heart. I know all of
in our hearts a great debt of grat-
itude and commitment to perform well,
sometimes under the most difficult cir-
cumstances.
us carry
2167
