Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Those who have served in the Congress
for 5 years or 35 or 38 years almost unan-
imously have told me that this past year,
this year
has been the most difficult in the
history of the Congress. The issues faced
were contentious, sometimes almost irre-
solvable, required the greatest degree of
personal courage and political courage to
vote for what the individual Member of
the House or Senate knew was best for
our Nation.
But that's not a unique circumstance,
even though it has been particularly dif-
ficult in recent months. I'm sure we'll
face similar questions in the future, and
I know that all of us are eager to per-
form in such a way that those who have
given us this honor will be pleased.
Our Nation has gone through trau-
matic experiences in the last decade. Per-
haps other than the War Between the
States, this has been the most severe trial
for our country's government. We had
a danger of alienating, perhaps perma-
nently, the people of our country from
their own Federal Government. And the
interrelationships between the local,
State, and Federal levels of government
almost threatened to be torn apart and
to destroy the system of federalism.
Our country's reputation around the
world was damaged severely, and the
ideals and principles on which our coun-
try was founded were sometimes in
doubt.
Again, those are not transient or one-
time problems or challenges. We un-
doubtedly will have similar kinds of
threats in the future to world peace, to a
better life for Americans, or because of
economic problems that might come and
might go. One of the things that I and
all my predecessors who have lived here-
and everyone has lived here except
George Washington-have experienced
together is that in spite of those things
that seem to us to be crises on a daily or
weekly or even an annual basis, they tend
to disappear in the stretch of history be-
cause of the innate greatness and strength
of our country.
We're the strongest nation on Earth
militarily, and we intend to stay that way.
We're the strongest nation on Earth eco-
nomically; God's blessed us beyond all
reasonable expectation, compared to
other people on Earth. And, of course,
we have the best political system as well.
And that blessing that's fallen upon us
gives us a great responsibility not only to
our own people to maintain a good life,
yes, but to maintain the spirit and the
ideals and the principles and the compas-
sion and the love, the unselfishness that
are the most important components of a
person's life. But let our own influence be
spread throughout the world in a bene-
ficial way.
We have many difficult problems. In-
flation has now become the most im-
portant issue in the minds of American
people. I think the election results last
month indicated that that is true. But we
need to meet also the human needs of the
American people as we control inflation.
Our economic system needs to be strength-
ened, not permitted to become weaker.
And I think the spirit of our government,
the reaching out to encompass more and
more people in its comprehension and to
participate in final decisions that we make
finally, is also a very important and diffi-
cult challenge for us.
These things are not incompatible. I
think they put a greater responsibility on
us next year than perhaps in the past in
economic affairs. But it requires us to root
out fraud, waste, corruption, inefficiency,
mismanagement, in order to meet the
basic needs of our people without wasting
scarce tax funds, which will be more
scarce in the future than they have been
in the past.
2168
