Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 5
energy and water resources. The question
is one of fiscal responsibility, equity, or
fairness in the allocation of scarce Gov-
ernment funding for worthwhile projects
and restraint in overall spending.
I urge each Member of Congress to sup-
port my veto and to work with me im-
mediately to develop a responsible bill
that can be passed this year, one that
would give our Nation the energy and
water resources that we actually need at
a cost that we can afford.
[At this point, the President signed the veto
message.]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Oval Office at the
White House.
Veto of Energy and Water
Development Appropriations
Bill
Message to the House of Representatives
Returning H.R. 12928 Without Approval.
October 5, 1978
To the House of Representatives:
Today I am returning H.R. 12928,
the Energy and Water Development Ap-
propriations bill, to the Congress without
my approval. This bill would hamper the
Nation's ability to
to control inflation,
eliminate waste and make the govern-
ment more efficient.
I respect the hard work and good in-
tentions of the Members of Congress who
have prepared this legislation. I share
with the Congress a commitment to a
strong program of water resource develop-
ment. Wise development and manage-
ment of water resources are vital to Amer-
ican agriculture's continued prosperity,
and to community and economic develop-
ment in key areas of our Nation. I have
proposed $2.5 billion this year to support
nearly 300 water projects—including
twenty-six project starts, the first proposed
by any President in four years. Much of
the water development funding in this bill
is sensible and necessary.
H.R. 12928 also contains energy re-
search and development programs which
are important to our Nation's energy fu-
ture. These appropriations are generally
in accord with national needs, and I sup-
port them.
But this bill also contains provisions for
excessive, wasteful water projects and ill-
advised limitations on efficient program
management; these require that I disap-
prove H.R. 12928 in its present form.
The bill would require expenditures on
water projects which have already been
evaluated objectively and found to be un-
sound or to fall short of planning, design
and environmental assessment require-
ment. These requirements are essential to
ensure that tax dollars are well spent and
that future cost over-runs and litigation
are avoided. The bill attempts to mandate
an unnecessary major increase in the size
of the Federal bureaucracy. And it uses
funding procedures which conceal from
the taxpayers the true size of excessive
Federal spending commitments.
In its present form, this bill appears to
appropriate less than my FY 1979 Budg-
et. In fact, however, it commits the Fed-
eral government to 27 additional new
projects and reinstates six projects halted
last year-three for construction and three
for planning. These added water projects
represent a total long-term commitment,
including inflation, of $1.8 billion in ex-
cess of those I proposed. Yet only a little
more than $100 million is appropriated
in this bill for these projects.
1707
