Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 13, 1978
Elkins, West Virginia
Remarks on the Occasion of the 42d Annual
Mountain State Forest Festival.
October 7, 1978
I might say first of all it is not a coin-
cidence that five Presidents have been
here to the Mountain State Forest Festi-
val. Not only is this a great part of the
Nation and a wonderful and enjoyable
thing for us to do, but when Harley Stag-
gers and Jennings Randolph suggest to
the President-[laughter]—that he at-
tend the festival in Jennings Randolph's
hometown, Harley Staggers' district, it's
quite an inappropriate thing to turn them
down in the invitation. [Laughter]
I'm also thankful that one of the great-
est majority leaders of all time, Bob Byrd,
was willing to let me off 3 or 4 hours this
afternoon to come. [Laughter] I doubt
that he would have given me an excuse to
go anywhere else in this last week of the
95th Congress.
It is great to be with my friends with
Queen Sylvia, who I hope will visit me in
the Oval Office before too long; Gover-
nor Jay Rockefeller, one of the 'great
Governors of our country, helpful to me
in many important issues, particularly
important to your State; Senator Ran-
dolph; Congressman Staggers; Mayor
Martin; members of the victorious Elkins
High Tigers. [Applause] I don't know
what to say about the Tigers getting a
louder applause than the President, but—
[laughter]-
It's good to be with you. In spite of the
light shower, this is a beautiful fall day.
And I can't think of a more beautiful
place in the United States to be than
right here with you.
I'm especially glad to participate in the
Mountain State Forest Festival and to
help salute West Virginia's forest industry,
your unique heritage, and your great and
unexcelled future. I'm here to reaffirm
that commitment to your future, to the
development of the natural resources and
the rich human resources of West Vir-
ginia. I want the Government that I lead
to be the kind of government that will
simply let the greatness of the American
people be realized.
I feel at home here. I grew up near a
town about one-tenth as large as Elkins
and not too far from a county seat of
Americus, Georgia, about exactly the
same size as yours, a town where people
also depended on the land for a living.
We learned how to work, and my
people still work, like yours. We had a
good life, and we still have a good life,
like yours.
1
1729
