Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 14
ity. I was, and still am, heavily dependent
upon the leadership in the Congress to
give me advice and counsel, and I've tried
to work with them in an attitude of part-
nership and sharing of responsibility un-
der the aegis of constitutional provisions.
I've had good luck. I believe that any
objective assessment of the accomplish-
ments of the 95th Congress will show that
they deserve a great deal of credit for
courage and also for hard work. I have
never seen a group work harder than they
have, and I've been a Governor and I've
been in the legislature myself.
I've only had, I think, six vetoes since
I've been in office. I think the first 20
months of President Ford's administra-
tion-Majority Leader Byrd told me the
other day--I think he had something like
46 vetoes. So, I think this is a good indica-
tion of our good relationship.
I don't hesitate, though, to use the veto
when I must, even though it's politically
dangerous and, certainly, when the out-
come is uncertain.
What I've tried to do, though, is when
we propose legislation originally, to meet
with the congressional leaders involved,
and then as we see trends developing in
the Congress, in either House or within
the committee, that I think are contrary
to my policies, to invite the Members of
Congress here, both Democrats and Re-
publicans, and point out my concerns and
see if we can't work out an agreement be-
fore the decision by them is made.
On the nuclear aircraft carrier and on
public works, I tried as hard as I could to
avoid a confrontation with Congress. But
I think some Members of Congress felt-
in fact, some of the Democratic leaders
of Congress told me on more than one
occasion-that they thought that a Presi-
dent has no right to assess the advisability
of individual public works projects. And
they feel very deeply about this, because
very rarely in the history of our country
has a President exerted this influence or
right.
I feel an obligation to do it. So, to sum-
marize, I think I've got a good division of
my own authority versus that of Congress.
I think it's completely constitutional in
nature. I think we have a good mutual
respect. I think the results of the Congress
will prove this.
My vetoes will be rare, but I consider
a veto to be a legitimate prerogative of
the President, and even a duty of a Presi-
dent, so that there is no domination of
the White House by the Congress itself,
or vice versa.
MARIJUANA
Q. Mr. President, Jim Cameron, from
Boston, Massachusetts. There's a question
of some concern to the millions of young
persons in this Nation: What will be the
fate, or any changes in your attempts at
marijuana law reform since the departure
staff of one of its greatest cham-
pions, Dr. Bourne?
from your
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think any
change in policy. Peter Bourne and I were
always compatible on this matter. I had
favored during the campaign the State
laws calling for decriminalization, with a
fairly substantial fine that might be levied
for possession of small quantities and a
more heavy emphasis on controlling those
who distribute marijuana and the more
dangerous drugs. But I don't envision any
change in our policy since Dr. Bourne's
departure.
ARAB RESPONSE TO CAMP DAVID
AGREEMENTS
Q. I'm with the Baltimore Jewish
Times, and I was wondering how you felt
about Saudi Arabia's lack of cooperation
in the peace talks, especially in light of
the arms sales and the leverage you should
have gained through them.
1779
