July 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Federal Civil Service Reform
Statement on the House Post Office and Civil
Service Committee's Action on Legislation.
July 19, 1978
I am extremely pleased that the House
Post Office and Civil Service Committee
has today voted to report the civil service
reform act. Despite forecasts by some that
this action would not come for some
time, the committee has acted quickly
and expeditiously. I feel that is a major
accomplishment.
I congratulate Chairman Robert Nix,
Vice Chairman Morris Udall, and the
ranking minority member, Edward Der-
winski, for their leadership in guiding the
civil service reforms through the commit-
tee. I want to thank all members, both
Democrats and Republicans, for the dili-
gence and thoroughness with which they
have worked.
The bill reported from committee
carries forward the major thrust of my
civil service reform proposal, though
there were some amendments added by
the committee that I opposed. I look for-
ward to speedy House floor action on this
legislation, which is so important to mak-
ing our Government better serve the
American people.
Federal Government Spending
Memorandum From the President.
July 19, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
As I did at the end of last fiscal year,
I again ask you to help me make sure we
continue to use funds wisely. Prevention
of unneeded or unwise Federal Govern-
ment spending is more important than
ever in this time of high inflation. Please,
therefore, tell your staff not to spend or
obligate funds for the sole or even pri-
mary purpose of keeping them from
lapsing.
Nor should they speed up spending to
avoid a shortfall that would occur solely,
or even primarily, because earlier outlay
estimates were too optimistic. Funds
should be used only for clear and desira-
ble program purposes.
Please issue instructions assuring that:
-obligations for the fourth quarter of
the fiscal year are no higher than for the
third quarter, except where seasonal re-
quirements, essential program objectives,
or procurement lead-times justify a
higher level, or where more money is
needed to restore program slippages to
approved levels;
-orders for supplies, materials, and
equipment are no more than needed to
meet approved program needs;
-purchases are managed so that in-
ventories do not exceed optimal levels;
-contracts for goods or services (for
delivery extending into the next fiscal
year) are let only when doing so will re-
sult in lower cost to the Government; and
-no purchases are made to compen-
sate for what otherwise would be an out-
lay shortfall. Resist the temptation to buy
and pay for lower priority items to make
up for over-optimistic outlay estimates.
I count on your full cooperation and
personal attention to save the taxpayers
as much money as possible.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on July 20.
Future Farmers of America
Remarks to the Organization's State
Presidents. July 20, 1978
I was trying to remember how long I've
been a member of FFA. [Laughter] I be-
came a member in 1936, and as a fresh-
1318
