Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
are not afraid to make difficult decisions,
and the rest of the world cooperated with
us.
We've proved in the process that our
allies and our friends will sustain the
United States in a common effort to bal-
ance the world economic system and give
us a more stable future. The Congress has
now passed for the first time in our his-
tory a national energy plan to give us
adequate supplies of energy at reasonable
and predictable prices, to cut down our
imports of foreign fuel, let our Nation be
self-sufficient, to shift us toward more
plentiful supplies of fuel like coal, solar
energy, to preserve the precious fuel oil,
gasoline for use in mobile equipment, as
is constructed in your own State, and to
give homes a chance to have an adequate
supply of natural gas in the future. This
is a great step forward, and we will con-
tinue to make our Nation strong in itself.
I believe that we can have a govern-
ment that's efficient as well. For 95 years
we've had a civil service system that stead-
ily grew more and more bureaucratic in
nature and which prevented good, quali-
fied, dedicated, hard-working civil serv-
ants from being adequately rewarded.
You would have two workers sitting side
by side at adjacent desks, one, as I've just
described, working hard, trying to do a
good job, dedicated, efficient; another
one unqualified, lazy, without motivation.
They both got paid exactly the same
amount, exactly the same pay increases,
exactly the same promotion. There was
no motivation for better performance,
managers could not manage.
Now we've got a new civil service re-
form bill. We can reward the dedicated
and competent employee in the Federal
Government. The other one who's not
been working well, we can inspire them to
do better, transfer them to a more fitting
job, or discharge them if they don't work.
This is what I believe is best for our
country. It's what we're going to con-
tinue to do.
I agree with the people of Michigan
that we need a strong nation, not just po-
litically, not just economically, but mili-
tarily as well. We have the strongest mili-
tary defense capability on Earth. And as
long as I'm in the White House, we're
going to keep it that way-number one.
It's going to stay that way.
We need to be strong so that we can
maintain peace. This is important for our
own country, yes. I'm very proud of the
fact—and I hope I can go out of office
still saying the same thing-that since
I've been President, we've not had a
single American in uniform shed blood
in a foreign country. This is a notable
achievement.
And it's true because we are strong, but
it's also true because we are now repair-
ing the damage that was done to our coun-
try, through the Vietnam war years, the
Watergate scandals, and the revelations
about the CIA. There's a new spirit in
our Nation, but there's also a new respect
for our Nation among the other countries
of the world. We want to preserve peace
for ourselves, yes, but we also believe that
as long as we have a country that has a
reputation for honesty, openness, decency,
with a spirit and the ideals and the com-
mitments on which our Nation was
founded, that our influence can be bene-
ficial and helpful in the other trouble spots
of the world.
This is important to us. It's important
to others. One of the great things that we
have been able to do is to raise high the
banner of human rights, and our coun-
try is now looked upon as the nation that
stands foremost in the protection of basic
human rights. And we'll have that reputa-
tion again as long as I'm in the White
House.
Let me say that we've also tried, with
some success, so far, to bring peace in
1935
