Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 21
GOALS OF U.S. INTERNATIONAL AIR
TRANSPORTATION POLICY
The United States will work to achieve
a system of international air transporta-
tion that places its principal reliance on
actual and potential competition to deter-
mine the variety, quality, and price of air
service. An essential means for carrying
out our international air transportation
policy will be to allow greater competitive
opportunities for U.S. and foreign airlines
and to promote new low-cost transporta-
tion options for travelers and shippers.
Especially in major international air
transport markets, there can be substan-
tial benefits for travelers, shippers, airlines,
and labor from increasing competitive
opportunities and reducing protectionist
restrictions. Increasing opportunities for
U.S. flag transportation to and from the
United States will contribute to the devel-
opment of our foreign commerce, assure
that more airlift resources are available
for our defense needs, and promote and
expand productivity and job opportu-
nities in our international air transport
industry.
TRANSLATING GOALS INTO NEGOTIATING
OBJECTIVES
United States international air trans-
permit the use of new price and
service options to meet the needs of
different travelers and shippers,
2. liberalization of charter rules and
elimination of restrictions on charter
operations,
3. expansion of scheduled service
through elimination of restrictions
on capacity, frequency, and route
and operating rights,
4. elimination of discrimination and
unfair competitive practices faced
by U.S. airlines in international
transportation,
5. flexibility to designate multiple U.S.
airlines in international air markets,
6. encouragement of maximum travel-
er and shipper access to international
markets by authorizing more cities
for nonstop or direct service, and by
improving the integration of domes-
tic and international airline services,
and
7. flexibility to permit the development
and facilitation of competitive air
cargo services.
EXPLANATION OF OBJECTIVES
1. Pricing. The United States will de-
velop new bilateral procedures to encour-
age a more competitive system for estab-
lishing scheduled air fares and rates.
Charter pricing must continue to be com-
portation policy cannot be implemented
unilaterally. Our objectives have to be
achieved in the system of international
agreements that form the basic frame-petitive. Fares, rates, and prices should be
work for the international air transporta-
tion system.
Routes, prices, capacity, scheduled and
charter rules, and competition in the mar-
ketplace are interrelated, not isolated
problems to be resolved independently.
Thus, the following objectives will be
presented in negotiations as an integrated
U.S. position:
1. creation of new and greater oppor-
tunities for innovative and competi-
tive pricing that will encourage and
determined by individual airlines based
primarily on competitive considerations
in the marketplace. Governmental regu-
lation should not be more than the mini-
mum necessary to prevent predatory or
discriminatory practices, to protect con-
sumers from the abuse of monopoly posi-
tion, or to protect competitors from prices
that are artificially low because of direct
or indirect governmental subsidy or sup-
port. Reliance on competition and en-
couragement of pricing based on commer-
1463
