Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
eral Government, not often highly publi-
cized-we've got some serious problems.
I appointed a new Administrator, Jay
Solomon, from Chattanooga, Tennessee.
And he had only been there a few weeks
before he began to investigate in depth, to
root out the corruption that exists. The
more he looked, the more he found. And
he finally appointed a special investigator,
and I asked the Department of Justice to
help him. And now we're making some
progress.
I don't know what the results will be,
about the number of indictments and so
forth. But we will stop that corruption of
the core of our Government. What has oc-
curred there over the last decades has
amounted to hundreds of millions of dol-
lars stolen from you, the taxpayers of our
country. We are trying to set up a mecha-
nism to prevent this happening in other
agencies.
The Congress will shortly pass a bill,
which I support, setting up 12 inspectors
general, independent of the agency head,
independent of me, who will make sure
that in all the agencies of government, the
major agencies, there is no tendency to-
ward corruption.
Our new civil service reform legislation,
soon to be passed by Congress, thank
goodness, will help us again to have not
only better use of worthy and dedicated
and honest employees, but a way to cor-
rect deficiencies. And in that we'll have a
special counsel, independent, to investi-
gate and to make sure that we don't have
a further corruption of your Government.
We inherited a mess, but we're getting
it under control.
The other point I would like to make,
because I'm here in the heart of steel
country, is that we're making progress in
keeping our people at work. When I be-
came President about 20 months ago, 10
million Americans could not find a full-
time job; more than 7 million had no jobs
at all. We've made good progress. And
you have been one of the counties, this
region, that has led that progress since
I've been President. The unemployment
rate now in Beaver County is down to 5.1
percent.
And we've had special success in trying
to turn around the problems in the steel
industry itself. Employment has risen 24,-
000 since the first of this year. When I be-
came President, the utilization rate in the
steel industry plants was down to 76 per-
cent. It's now up to 90 percent. In spite of
a general slowing down in the economy,
domestic shipments of steel are up 5 per-
cent; revenues of the steel companies-
the second quarter of this year compared
to the second quarter of last year-up
71 percent, which means that they can re-
invest in keeping the plants modern and
competing with steel producers in other
countries.
We've put into effect, as you know, a
trigger price system to stop dumping. And
as long as I'm President, we won't have
any worry about that any more.
So, we are making good progress in al-
most every aspect of your lives, with good
cooperation between the Congress and the
President in trying to mirror accurately
in the White House what you want done
for your country.
I won't go into any other items. I could
spend the whole hour doing that. But I
want to spend the next 50 minutes an-
swering any questions that you have in
your mind. And now, I'd like to turn, I
understand, to the first microphone over
here if there is a question. And I'll try
to be brief with my answers so that we can
cover as many questions as possible.
QUESTIONS
COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I
am Evelyn Rosmini from Aliquippa, and
1604
