Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 1
world trade and investment, and I might
add, while discouraging the excessive
speculation in currencies that unsettles
foreign exchange markets. We will ex-
pand our exports to get our current ac-
count deficit under control.
Recent statistics are encouraging. And
factors that have already come into ex-
istence will enhance this trend in the com-
ing months. The rate of growth of our
Nation is now much more in phase with
the rate of growth of our trade partners.
A lower valued dollar will make our own
products more attractive. And controlling
inflation in our country, minimizing the
imports of oil over a period of time, will
help to expand our exports as contrasted
with our imports.
U.S. trade relationships and export
performance are not just a domestic con-
cern. As our trade encourages peace, our
export growth will spur the world
economy.
U.S. food production is a great world
resource, and more stable storage and
supplies will increase agricultural exports
at more predictable and reasonable prices
to help feed the hungry people of the
world. It also reduces our trade deficit,
which in turn strengthens the dollar.
We accept and will honor the respon-
sibilities that go with the dollar's role as
an international reserve of currency. Our
present policies are designed to fight in-
flation and achieve that goal, and I have
no doubt that the dollar will rise in re-
sponse to its fundamental value and the
emerging economic trends which I have
just described. Stable, noninflationary
growth enables public and private institu-
tions to meet their obligations to the poor
two-thirds of the world.
We must do more to help these coun-
tries by trade, by aid, by other measures.
Private enterprise has a large responsibil-
ity here. World prosperity depends at
least as much on the wisdom and fore-
sight of private business leaders as on the
good sense of government.
I described the steps the U.S. Govern-
ment is taking, not because they will solve
all our problems-because they won't-
nor because they are unusually brave
ones-because they are not. I mention
them as an indication of how deeply I
believe my Nation has a responsibility in
the world.
Each of these steps involves some sacri-
fice for the American public. In many
cases they require deferral of goals we
would prefer to pursue. But the Ameri-
can public is ready to meet this challenge.
I have no doubt about that. I think my
Nation has come to the recognition that
only through vision, accommodation, and
occasional sacrifice can we be worthy of
our privilege, that only by fulfilling our
obligations can we win many of the re-
wards that are truly worth possessing.
I believe, as I know you do, that the
best way to achieve the world we seek is
through a free political and economic
system. This means a political system in
which governments answer for their ac-
tions to their people. It means an eco-
nomic system in which resources are al-
located as much as possible by private,
not government decisions.
I believe in a free market system. I
prospered in it as a business man. I know
it's the best route for progress for all. But
here, again, it would be a mistake to
blame government for protectionist deci-
sions. Hardly a week goes by that I don't
have some very conservative business-
man or a group of businessmen come to
me to ask for government protection of
his own interests, at the same time de-
ploring protectionism for all others.
In choosing the theme for your 26th
conference, "Enterprise, Freedom, and
the Future," the International Chamber
has recognized the essential linkage be-
tween free people, free nations, and free
1693
