Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
modern intrusions as a railroad and an
interstate highway.
The career of General "Mad" Anthony
Wayne has been amply commemorated at
other designated sites and I do not believe
the added expense of acquiring and de-
veloping this site is a worthwhile expendi-
ture of Federal funds.
The White House,
November 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Public Telecommunications
Financing Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 12605 Into Law.
November 2, 1978
I am pleased to sign the Public Tele-
communications Financing Act of 1978.
This bill carries out my commitment to a
strong, secure public broadcasting system.
Public broadcasting has made great
strides since President Johnson signed the
Public Broadcasting Act of 1967, setting
the framework for today's public system.
The television system has grown from 124
local stations to 282 and the radio system
from 93 to 215. Public television and radio
have set new standards in children's pro-
grams, drama, music, science, and history.
Documentaries, news analyses, and live
coverage of speeches and hearings have
brought government closer to the Ameri-
can people.
Public broadcasting has also proved it-
self a valuable teaching tool for both in-
school and adult instruction. It has pio-
neered such innovations as captioning for
the deaf, subchannel reading services for
the visually impaired, and signal transmis-
sion by satellite.
The bill I am signing will enable pub-
lic broadcasting to continue this impres-
sive record of development and service. It
accomplishes almost all the objectives I
set out in my message to Congress on
public broadcasting a year ago. Senators
Howard Cannon and Ernest Hollings and
Representatives Harley Staggers and
Lionel Van Deerlin were the leaders on
this bill, and I congratulate them for their
hard and effective work.
In addition to extending Federal sup-
port at increasing levels through 1983, the
bill makes important changes to the sys-
tem:
-It revamps the facilities, grant pro-
gram, with the goal of extending the
reach of public radio and television sig-
nals to the tens of millions of Americans
who cannot receive them. The program is
also opened to allow use of the most effi-
cient technologies, including cable TV
and lower power broadcast stations.
-It will increase participation of
minorities and women in public broad-
casting and ensure full enforcement of the
laws against discrimination.
-It strengthens fiscal accountability
and limits administrative overhead.
-It minimizes the involvement of the
Board and staff of the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting (CPB) in program
selection, thereby strengthening the sys-
tem's insulation from political control.
-It requires public broadcasters to op-
erate in the sunshine, with meetings and
records open to the public.
-It will increase participation by in-
dependent producers and will help them
by having CPB act as a clearinghouse for
information about funding sources.
-It requires CPB to initiate long-term
planning for the system.
Under this bill, public broadcasting will
be able to step up production of first-rate
radio and television programs here in the
United States. CPB has already moved to
increase the proportion of funds going to
this purpose toward the levels suggested
in my message. Now that the bill has
1927
