Oct. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
where he will deal with a wide range of
international economic issues, including
economic relations among industrial
countries and aid to developing countries.
Energy and Water Development
Appropriations Bill
Remarks Announcing Intention To Veto
H.R. 12928. October 3, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. There are no problems
more serious in our country than infla-
tion, the high tax burden on our people,
and waste in government.
These are concerns that press very
heavily on me as President. And they are
concerns that have caused me to decide
that later this week I will veto the public
works bill recently passed by Congress.
It's important that I and the Congress
set an example for the rest of the Nation
in controlling inflation. And this public
works bill is exactly the wrong example.
It's inflationary; it's wasteful; it spends
the taxpayers' money in a very inefficient
and inappropriate way.
I do agree that public works projects in
this country are necessary. But the bill is
absolutely unacceptable.
In the first place, it mandates, it re-
quires me to hire 2,300 new employees,
which I may or may not consider neces-
sary, at an average salary per year of about
$25,000, a total cost of $57 million.
In addition, this bill restores six un-
necessary water projects that were deleted
by the Congress last year at a cost of about
$580 million.
In addition, the Congress has added 27
new water projects above and beyond
what was recommended, at a total cost of
about $1.8 billion, or about three times as
much as I recommended.
I, along with the people of our country,
am tired of seeing the taxpayers' money
wasted, and I am determined to see the
fight against inflation succeed. That's why
I'm going to veto this unreasonable bill
later on this week.
I think that we've got to set an exam-
ple for fiscal responsibility. We cannot af-
ford to fail in our fight against inflation.
And I urge the Members of the Congress
to sustain my veto and to come back im-
mediately with a reasonable bill that
spends the American taxpayers' money
wisely and which builds projects that will
be of benefit to our country, which are
sound, advisable, and needed.
Thank you very much.
sir?
REPORTER. Can you win the veto fight,
THE PRESIDENT. I'm determined to win
it, yes.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Oval Office at the
White House.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Center
for Social Change
Remarks at a White House Reception for
Friends of the Center. October 3, 1978
It's a great honor for me to welcome my
good friends to the White House this eve-
ning and an honor to be joined by my spe-
cial friends on this program.
The Morehouse College Choir, which
you've all heard with great pleasure,
is memorable in itself. Martin Luther
King, Jr., sang in it. Is that right, Coretta?
And Martin Luther King II is now study-
ing at Morehouse. I happen to be a More-
house brother myself. And the choir sang
on a special day for me, the day of my In-
auguration. So, I'm very deeply grateful to
them and moved whenever I hear them.
1702
