Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We're now getting ready to embark on
a massive program for anti-inflation. And
I've tried to bring to the Government the
proper basis for management itself. When
I ran for President, we had a Federal
deficit of almost $70 billion, $66 billion.
We've tried to cut that down, to cut the
deficit down. And this year the Congress
has completed appropriations bills with
a deficit cut down to less than $40 bil-
lion. Next year it's going to be lower. My
goal is to have a balanced budget. And if
the economy permits it, I'm going to
work with you to bring about a balanced
budget in our country.
There's no place for waste, and at the
same time we've strengthened education
programs, strengthened our highway
programs, strengthened our urban de-
velopment programs, cut down the Fed-
eral deficit, we've also cut taxes substan-
tially $8 billion last year; the Congress
has just passed another bill to reduce
taxes 19 or more billion dollars more.
And I think the combination of those
three things shows that we have a firm
grip now on the fiscal management of our
Government.
We're trying to eliminate unnecessary
regulations—and those that are written,
to write them in plain English. We're
making the people that write them sign
them. And we're trying to make it so peo-
ple can understand them, even peanut
farmers from Georgia.
We've tried to put "free" back into our
free enterprise system. One of the things
we've already done is to tackle the airline
industry. We've lowered fares dramati-
cally. The airlines objected strongly, and
now they've increased their passenger
capacity and utilization greatly. Their
profits are up. Everybody is benefiting.
The Congress has now passed a law to
make sure that this is permanent.
We're going to move on other sections
of the transportation industry in the fu-
ture. We're trying to get government's
nose out of the business of the people, let
the free enterprise system work, make
government a model for others, remove
the things that are embarrassing and re-
store some fiscal integrity and fiscal man-
agement principles to government and
give our people better services at the same
time. And so far, we've done it. We're
going to keep on doing it in the future.
I'd just like to mention two other things.
One is that in your city, in your State,
there are tens of thousands of dedicated
public servants who work for the Federal
Government, as do I. They have sacrifi-
cially, in many instances, dedicated their
one life on Earth to a career of serving
other Americans. Quite often they don't
get credit for what they do. And some-
times in the past they've not been per-
mitted to do their best.
For the first time in 95 years, I proposed
to the Congress civil service reform legis-
lation to let superb employees be recog-
nized and to utilize their talent and ability
and dedication; to inspire those who have
not done too well to do better or to be
transferred or discharged; to let managers
manage; and to let Federal employees be
proud of their own careers and let the
American people be proud of them.
I'm very grateful that the Congress has
now passed, in an intact form, the civil
service reform legislation. This will help,
again, to give better management to your
Government and to mine.
We've also maintained the strength of
our country in other ways, not just a
strong government itself, but a strong na-
tion, a strong defense. Although our mili-
tary might is unequaled anywhere in the
world—and it will be kept that way—it's
not just a quantity of weapons or even the
resolve of American people to defend our-
selves or even the sacrificial dedication of
service people that makes us strong. In the
past we had been weakened because many
1798
