Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
equipment, new factories, new jobs, and
higher productivity that would ensure
success for all our efforts.
In the past, I think there's been too
much doubt in the business community
about the attitude of government, about
the sustained growth, about research and
development, about export opportunities,
about excessive imports of fuel, about sta-
ble prices of fuel, higher productivity in
our country of fuel-these kinds of ques-
tions are the ones that we've tried to ad-
dress already since I've been in office with
the full cooperation of the Congress.
The sustaining of the value of the dol-
lar is also a very important element, be-
cause as you know, when the dollar de-
creases in value overseas, the indirect but
very predictable consequence of this is a
higher inflation rate here at home. And
this is a combination that's very compli-
cated. Although the Federal Reserve is an
absolutely independent agency, I can tell
you that there's a very close coordination
between the Congress leaders in tax pol-
icy, between the executive branch of Gov-
ernment, represented primarily by the
President, and by Bill Miller, who's the
Chairman of the Federal Reserve. And we
have a commitment to keep these three
branches of Government independent, but
we do coordinate our efforts and we share
responsibilities and we share problems.
So, I think that it's important that we
have this sustained, constant, long-range
commitment with a maximum degree of
harmony within the government itself. I'm
sure of that.
Louis as the place for this first conference
on inflation, because you are the center
for nationwide distribution systems, you're
the headquarters for some of our most im-
portant corporations. And I think the re-
lationship there between labor and man-
agement has been very good in the past,
setting example for the rest of the country.
The question that you asked is a good
one, and I think that the answer is that
we can succeed in controlling inflation if
we all cooperate. I'm determined as Pres-
ident to provide that leadership. I have
no doubt that the Congress, labor, busi-
ness, and the American public will support
it.
I want to again express my thanks to
Bob Strauss, for the members of my own
team who are there with the St. Louis
leaders, and hope that this example, hav-
ing been set in St. Louis, will be followed
throughout the country.
I believe we've got an opportunity now
to capitalize on the tremendous economic
strength of our country to solve this seri-
ous but, I believe, transient problem of in-
flation if we all work together. And I have
no doubt that we will work together in the
true spirit of Americans who are willing
to sacrifice special advantage for the ben-
efit of our country.
Thank you very much, Bob, and every-
body who's assembled there.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
President. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the
What we need now is a public profes- forum being held at the Alfonso J. Cervantes
sion of support from the hundreds of bus-
iness and labor leaders throughout the
country that can either make or break this
program. I'm determined as President to
make it successful, to make it succeed. Our
country needs it. The American people
support it.
And it was no accident that we chose St.
Convention Center.
Also participating in the forum were Am-
bassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations, Charles L.
Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall,
Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on
Inflation, S. Lee Kling, Assistant Special Coun-
selor on Inflation, and Esther Peterson, Special
Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs.
1915
