Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
on their homes for 40 years or more should
have to have their property reassessed?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am, yes, I do.
It would be much better, obviously, if no
one had to have their property reassessed.
There are some senior citizens who are
quite wealthy. Among the wealthiest peo-
ple in our country are some senior citizens,
not the ones about whom you have just
asked me. But I think when you start ex-
cluding certain groups of citizens com-
pletely from any increase in property taxes
for a number of years, you add on to the
burden of others in the society, perhaps
who are just as poor and just as in need as
the senior citizens themselves.
One of the things that we are trying to
do, however, is to make sure that as a
senior citizen depends upon, for instance,
social security payments to make those tax
levies to the county or city, that the social
security payments go up enough to ac-
commodate the normal inflation rate.
One of the things that I'd like to warn
about is that there are some demands be-
ing made now, on a nationwide basis, by
the Republican leaders for a dramatic de-
crease in Federal income taxes, like 35
percent or some extraordinary figure of
that sort under the so-called Kemp-Roth
bill.
There's a given level of service to our
people that has to be maintained for na-
tional defense, for social security, for edu-
cation, for streets and highways and po-
lice forces. And if you drastically reduce
income taxes, the only thing that you can
do is to put a very large increased tax
burden on property taxes, exactly what we
do not want to do.
So, I think we need to cut income taxes
substantially. I hope the Democratic Con-
gress and I can do that, maybe $20 billion
this year. We had about a $7 billion de-
crease last year. But to cut income taxes so
much that you have to pile more tax bur-
den on property taxpayers is something
that we want to avoid. So, I think we'll do
everything we can to make sure that el-
derly citizens are protected, particularly
those with low incomes. We will not ex-
clude the rich elderly citizens from paying
their part of the taxes.
We'll try to hold down property taxes
as much as possible by maintaining a rea-
sonable level of Federal income taxes and
increase the social security payments and
others that go to elderly citizens to accom-
modate for the increases in taxes and
other things brought about by the infla-
tion rate. That's in a very brief period of
time the best I can do with a very com-
plicated subject.
I know you want to pay your share.
And I want to make sure you don't pay
any more than your share. Thank you.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Ken Joyce from Ambridge, Penn-
sylvania. There are many good communi-
ties here in Beaver County. And the next
time you get a break in your busy sched-
ule, I'd like to invite you to one of the
better ones, which is Ambridge. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Ambridge, by the way,
is one of my wife's favorites. She was
there, I think, twice during the campaign.
She wants to come back.
Q. Well, she can come back, too, Mr.
President.
My question for you is: As a man who
has risen to prominence from relative
obscurity-
THE PRESIDENT. That's putting it mild-
ly. [Laughter]
Q. -what is your expectation as to
how history will remember you? What is
your hope, your goal as a President to be
remembered by history?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a hard thing to
answer. Just let me briefly say that there
are two things that I would like to have
remembered about me. One is that I
1614
