Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
Egypt. But I got in touch with President
Sadat, and he informed me this morning
that as long as I wanted the Egyptian
negotiators here, that he would leave them
in Washington to negotiate a peace treaty.
And I'm thankful for that.
Both sides want peace, and I think as
long as our Nation is strong, as long as
foreign leaders know that I don't speak
with a hollow voice, that when I speak,
the Congress knows what we are trying to
accomplish, the congressional leaders like
those on the stage here with me, Gov-
ernors and citizens like you understand
and support me, it gives my voice great
authority and great influence which it
would not have otherwise.
And I have tried to raise again the
banner of principle the principles on
which our Nation were originally founded.
And as long as I'm in the White House,
we will have the reputation of being the
nation, the strong nation that will always
insist upon an enhancement of basic hu-
man rights around the world.
So, to close, let me say this: We've got
a good Democratic team. I feel very proud
to be the leader of the Democratic Party,
to see the cohesion that we enjoy giving
strength to our country. I have no fear of
difficult challenges. There are no easy
answers to problems that have afflicted
our Nation for a long time. But with a
strong congressional delegation, a strong
Governor and State administrators, State
legislature to work with me, there is no
doubt that if we can earn your confi-
dence and we're determined to do so-
and keep that confidence and support,
that we will make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:20 p.m. in
the Capitol Ballroom at the Hartford Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to
John Dempsey, Jr., State Democratic Party
chairman.
Hartford, Connecticut
Remarks at a State Democratic Party
Fundraising Reception. October 28, 1978
I've come to Connecticut for two basic
reasons. One is to thank you for your
great support of me and my programs,
and the wonderful congressional delega-
tion that you've sent to Washington,
particularly Abe Ribicoff, who's here
with me this morning, and to let you
know how deeply I need for you to sup-
port strongly our Democratic nominees,
and particularly your wonderful Gover-
nor, Ella Grasso.
I have only got a few minutes. I would
like to take a chance to shake hands with
you rather than making a speech. But
there are two things I want to say. First
of all, your coming here today is very
helpful financially to Governor Grasso.
But it's not enough, because all of you
are able to help her even more financially
among your friends and neighbors and
relatives, and I hope you will do so. You
could not possibly make a better invest-
ment in the future of Connecticut and the
future of our country.
And each one of you can become a
campaign manager for her, because you
have the influence, the prestige, and the
ability to do so. And I hope that will
you
in this last 9 or 10 days of this election
year.
The other thing I'd like to comment on
to you, at the request of Senator Abe Ribi-
coff, is about the Middle East. We've had
some luck, as you know, at Camp David,
and we intend to continue our efforts
until we have peace in the Mideast.
We have two great leaders there who
were honored yesterday with the highest
peace award in the world: President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin. The
people of Israel, the people of Egypt want
peace, and so do the people who live in
the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Jordan, Syria,
1891
