Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 14
people. I pray God to help me to be a
good servant for my people and for the
friendship between the United States and
Morocco. And I pray God, I pray God to
help you in your work, Mr. President, and
to preserve the United States of America.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Emergency Board To Investigate
an Airline Labor Dispute
Appointment of the Membership.
November 14, 1978
The President today announced the
members of the Emergency Board to in-
vestigate the dispute between Wien Air
Alaska and the Air Line Pilots Associa-
tion. This Board was created by Executive
order on November 2, 1978. The mem-
bers are:
John N. Gentry, of Reston, Va., a law-
yer and labor relations specialist. Gentry
is a member of Wirtz and Gentry, a labor
and public interest consulting firm. His
professional activities relate to manpower,
education, labor relations, and dispute
resolution. He is president of the National
Manpower Institute and is a former Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary of Labor for
Labor-Management Relations. He will
serve as Chairman of the Emergency
Board.
Paul N. Guthrie, an economics profes-
sor at the University of North Carolina.
He has been a member of numerous Pres-
idential Emergency Boards, involving
both railroad and airline labor disputes.
He has also served as a labor arbitrator
and as a referee for the National Railroad
Adjustment Board. He is a past president
of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
Ralph W. Yarborough, of Austin, Tex.,
an attorney, arbitrator, and former U.S.
Senator. Yarborough served in the Senate
from 1957 to 1971 and was chairman of
the Senate Labor and Public Welfare
Committee.
Visit of King Hassan II of
Morocco
Toasts at the State Dinner.
November 14, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me wel-
come all of you to the White House. This
is a wonderful occasion for us, to have a
distinguished visitor, his sister, his two
sons, to come and represent a country that
has extremely significant historical ties
with our own Nation.
When I welcomed King Hassan this
morning, I pointed out to the audience
on the South Lawn that our Nation de-
clared its independence in 1776. And in
1777 we were sitting here fighting for
freedom, a small struggling country with
practically no friends in the rest of the
world. But one nation came forward and
said, "We recognize you as an independ-
ent people." And I think all of you here
can guess which nation that was. It was
Morocco.
This, of course, was in 1777. And now
for more than 200 years our country has
been honored with the friendship and
the alliance and support and partnership
with a great people, the Kingdom of
Morocco. Ten years later, we signed a
treaty of peace and commerce and began
a very fruitful trade between our two na-
tions, with the exchange of ambassadors,
first of all, and then with merchant sea-
men, more recently airmen, members of
our Navy. This has been a very constant
and fruitful interrelationship between
two people.
2033
