Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 14
final conclusion at the time of the trial or ject that has ever been addressed by the
the original investigation.
LEGISLATIVE PROCESS
Q. I'm Tom Leathers, from Kansas
City. Congress these last few days will
make all sorts of decisions on all sorts
of bills in rather a hurryup fashion. Is
this the best way to run the Government,
do you think?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, short of a dic-
tatorship [laughter]-I believe it's the
best way. And I think, obviously, our sys-
tem is better than a dictatorship.
I get frustrated sometimes at the inertia
of Congress at some moments and also the
overly hasty action of Congress in others.
But I have to say that sometimes within
the White House itself, even on my own
desk, there is inertia at times because of
different reasons-sometimes deliberate,
sometimes because of an overload of work,
and sometimes, perhaps, I have to act too
hastily.
It's good for the American people to
remember, though, that some of the mat-
ters the Congress seems to be deciding
hastily have been debated and considered
over 20 months, and that the members of
a subcommittee or even a large full com-
mittee quite often are highly expert in
that particular question, particularly the
members of their staffs. And, of course, a
Congress Member who's been there 8, 10,
or more years tends to focus his or her
attention on specific matters or subjects
that relate to their committee assignment.
So, I've been really impressed with the
professionalism of Congress. And some-
thing that seems to be hasty is often that
way only because the press and the Amer-
ican public have not been aware of the
long, tedious negotiations and investiga-
tions that have gone on in prior months.
Energy, for instance, probably has been
considered as thoroughly as any other sub-
Congress. The civil service reform is the
same way. Even the tax bill, which I
thought was handled in a very abrupt and
unpredictable fashion, the ultimate con-
clusion will be adequate.
I'm here, having 10 days after the Con-
gress passes a bill, with all my staff to
assess what they have done. If I think a
mistake has been made on the tax bill or
any other major bill, then I can veto it.
And the worst consequence would be that
the Congress would either come back in
a special session-which I hope will not
be the case--or could consider a bill, a
replacement bill very early the next year,
maybe even with retroactive provisions in
the case of taxes.
I haven't decided what to do about that
particular bill. I just use it as an example
of one that has been considered very pre-
cipitously. I think, though, in general, the
literally hundreds of bills that Congress
does consider are carefully considered.
PROGRAMS FOR THE HANDICAPPED
Q. Mr. President, Aubrey Bowie, from
Greenville, South Carolina. What is the
administration's position on funding for
voc-rehab and other programs for the
handicapped, and is it in conflict or agree-
ment with what Congress wants to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're fairly
compatible with Congress on vocational
rehabilitation and other matters. I believe
that the total HEW budget will only be
slightly above what I advocated originally.
There might be some categories where
they are higher, like in the National In-
stitutes of Health. But I think in general,
we've been compatible. The differences
might be a matter of 3 or 4 percent, or
5 percent, just a difference of judgment.
But we've done, I think more—this
Congress has, with my full support—to
aid handicapped people than has ever
been done before. I don't say that partic-
1781
