Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
icy, your voice is heard and your opinions
are assessed, we can much more easily
prevent a mistake and make the admin-
istration of these laws much more
successful.
I might point out that there has been
some concern expressed from some of
you
that this administration has an anti-
nuclear power policy. We do not. I've not
done much graduate work, but all my
graduate work was cone in nuclear engi-
neering. I was one of the very earliest
Americans who worked on the develop-
ment of a way to use nuclear power for
peaceful purposes, to produce electricity,
power to propel ships. And I still have a
strong commitment to the use of nuclear
power.
It should be, obviously, produced in a
way that's safe, and we've done that in
our country. It should be economically
feasible, and we are constantly exploring
ways to make it more efficient. And, of
course, it should be explained very clearly
to the American people. We don't want to
waste money. And we need to draw a
careful delineation between the alloca-
tion of major funds for research and de-
velopment, for systems that might be
beneficial in years to come, compared to
investments in practical tests or pilot
projects that can be assessed at this time.
This principle not only applies to nu-
clear power but to many others as well;
new ways to get photoelectric power
generated, new ways to burn coal effi-
ciently and cleanly, even new ways to
produce hydroelectric power more effi-
ciently.
Our water projects, which has been a
highly controversial issue, is one that we
approached with some concern and trepi-
dation. But I think the outcome of a new
water policy will be that when we do have
Federal funds available to spend-and
they're always limited-that they can be
spent on projects that are of the highest
possible priority for our country, to make
sure that wasteful projects are not built,
ones of doubtful advocacy or advisability
are not built, but that we do allot those
funds in an open and clear way, with an
increased involvement by local people like
yourselves, that we will make the right
decision; and that just because a project
was approved 15 or 20 years ago by a then
senior Member of Congress, that it doesn't
work its way up to the top and find itself
built when other projects are much more
desirable, much more needed to serve the
people that you yourselves represent.
I might also alleviate some concerns.
There will be no proposal made to elim-
inate the REA loan program. There will
be no proposals made to move REA out of
Agriculture. And whenever you have a
concern about a rumor like this that gets
started and then has a life of its own, I
hope that you will come directly to see
me with a delegation or your own very,
very fine representatives here in Washing-
ton, and put a stop to that kind of rumor
once and for all.
I think that you know that Bob Berg-
land would not mislead you in any way;
neither would I. None of us have any
inclination to mislead you. And when that
kind of concern arises, it seems to fester
like a sore, and it needs to be nipped in
the bud immediately. And if, on occasion,
there is some concern that is legitimate,
I have no trepidation about letting you
know that we are considering this. We'll
work very closely with you in the allevia-
tion of a problem. You'll be partners of
ours and not someone who hears about a
decision that affects your lives after it's
too late for you to change it. I'll never do
that. It would be a very serious mistake
for me as President to try to evolve any
change in the Federal laws, or any major
change in the regulations that are issued,
or procedures to be followed that affect
you, without working it out harmoniously
2109
