Sept. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
certain; and incentives necessary for in-
creased production are clearly lacking.
These problems are well recognized, but
for nearly 30 years solutions have proven
to be beyond our reach.
The natural gas compromise presents
a rare opportunity for us to replace the
existing system with an approach which
is fair, balanced and workable.
Several Senate opponents argue that
producers are not given enough incen-
tives, while others maintain that the leg-
islation excessively benefits producers to
the detriment of consumers. However,
opponents of the bill cannot agree on an
alternative which would improve the
existing system. They are united only in
their opposition.
I firmly believe that the compromise
does not hold special advantages for any
group. The beneficiaries of this legislation
will be the American people; the interest
served will be the national interest.
As a compromise, the conference re-
port does not include everything that I
proposed nor does it include everything
that you have supported. The report does,
however, substantially increase supplies by
creating a national gas market and estab-
lishing new and certain incentives for gas
producers, and it provides reasonable
prices for industrial and residential con-
sumers. It strikes a fair balance between
producer interests and consumer con-
cerns, between the over-regulation of the
past and the economic hardship of im-
mediate deregulation, and between the
bills passed by the Senate and House. The
compromise is workable and is far su-
perior to the status quo.
Passage of this bill is essential for sev-
eral reasons.
The bill abolishes the outmoded dual
market system and creates a single na-
tional gas market. Substantial additional
quantities of natural gas will flow into the
interstate market-where it is sorely
needed at prices below that of alternate
fuels such as foreign oil, LNG, and SNG.
Together with the construction of the
Alaska gas pipeline, which will be greatly
facilitated by this bill, these increased sup-
plies could mean a 30 percent increase in
interstate gas by 1985, a saving of approx-
imately 1.4 million barrels per day of im-
ported oil by 1985, and a $6 to $8 billion-
a-year reduction in our trade deficit if
OPEC prices rise at about the inflation
rate.
With the interstate gas market opened
for the first time to intrastate supplies,
certain regions of the country will no
longer have to suffer through gas-short
winters while other regions have more
than they need.
There will also be enough gas to resume
home hook-ups throughout the country.
And industrial users, who have had diffi-
culty relying on gas, would be able to
depend on this fuel without fear of abrupt
supply cut-offs.
Under the bill's incremental pricing
provisions, the industrial gas price in
1985, in almost every region of the coun-
try, will still be well below the price of
fuel oil-even assuming world oil prices
stay constant. Significantly, under the in-
cremental pricing provision, the price of
natural gas to industrial users will be
lower than the price would have been
under the Senate-passed deregulation
bill.
New and easily determined production
incentives will be mandated under the
compromise. Prices will be set legislatively
at a level that will encourage increased
production. The bill abandons the vague
regulatory standards of the past, and spells
out in very specific fashion the prices that
producers can expect. Consequently,
while the compromise appears detailed,
the various price determinations that must
be made are relatively simple. In addi-
tion, the bill resolves the uncertainties
1488
