Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 25
open and vigorous economy, and an at-
tractive place to invest.
Other steps are also required to achieve
the economic progress that we all seek.
In these steps, the IMF and the World
Bank have, of course, a vital role to play.
These two institutions are the core and
the symbol of the international economic
order that was built after World War II.
They've shown a high capacity to adapt
to new and rapidly changing needs.
Strengthening and enlarging them, both
institutions, is a prime goal of United
States policy.
The United States is firmly commit-
ted to a strong International Monetary
Fund, exercising effective surveillance
over the system and with adequate re-
sources to meet official financing needs.
The United States has supported and will
continue to support an increase in IMF
quotas and a new allocation of special
drawing rights.
I'm pleased that legislative considera-
tion of U.S. participation in the supple-
mentary financing facility is nearing com-
pletion. I expect final action to be taken
shortly.
I might report to you that this year, the
attitude of the United States Congress is
better than it has been in my own memory
toward supporting international financial
institutions and toward foreign aid as
well.
I trust that our European friends will
fashion the proposed European monetary
arrangements which were discussed, at
least superficially, at Bonn in a way that
will also strengthen the international mon-
etary system and that will facilitate
growth and trade and investment and also,
quite importantly, the continued central
role of the IMF.
Current European efforts to these ends
are a logical step toward the greater Euro-
pean integration which the United States
has long supported. We also support pro-
posals to enlarge the resources of the
World Bank and its soft loan affiliate,
the International Development Associa-
tion, as we pledged at the Bonn summit.
Again, the Congress has met our ex-
pectations. Expanded help to developing
countries contributes, we know, to the
healthy world economy and to world
peace. Last week, the United States Sen-
ate, as the House of Representatives had
already done, met our Nation's obliga-
tions for both multilateral and bilateral
aid beyond, I must admit, my own ex-
pectations.
I will seek next year to continue this
commitment as part of a growing interna-
tional effort to eliminate the worst aspects
of human poverty. The United States
Governor for the Fund and the Bank,
Secretary of Treasury Mike Blumenthal,
will outline our policies in more detail
and our prospects for achievement in more
detail when he addresses your session
tomorrow.
You are gathered in Washington to ad-
dress formidable challenges in both mon-
etary and development fields. The future
of all peoples in both developing and de-
veloped countries depends upon the out-
come of your deliberations and subsequent
action. I reiterate my Nation's commit-
ment to the common effort that is re-
quired. I am confident that this joint ef-
fort will succeed.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. in
the Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton-Park Hotel
to representatives of the International Mone-
tary Fund, the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development (World Bank), the
International Development Association, and
the International Finance Corporation.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah, Chairman
of the Boards of Governors of the IBRD and
IMF, Jacques deLarosiere, Managing Director
of the IMF, and Robert S. McNamara, Presi-
dent of the IBRD.
1629
