Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
Mr. Short, I think, was one of Hum-
phrey's closest friends and supporters,
which clouded the issue. He is much
more conservative than Don Fraser.
But I don't see any trend at all against
Democrats this fall. And I think after the
first week in November, you will see that
my prediction is accurate.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Otis [Otis A. Brumby,
Jr., Marietta (Georgia) Daily Journal]?
U.S. ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, you speak of im-
ports. I'd like, if I could, to ask you a ques-
tion about exports, as you know, are very
important to our State. We've had stories
in our papers; I've seen in other papers
in the area that some of your policies,
the unilateral policies involving exports,
have not, perhaps, had their desired ef-
fects. And I'm thinking of the major de-
fense contracts in my area, to transport
planes overseas.
What do you say to these people who
have lost their jobs, who can't be hired,
but they say that several thousand jobs
could be created, but they can't go sell be-
cause of the unilateral actions you have
taken in this area of arms sales?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't have any
apology to make for constraining the sale
of arms. I think the type of planes, for
instance, that Lockheed makes near your
home, Mr. Brumby, is one of the items
that have been sold with relatively slight
constraint.
The C-130 or the Hercules transport
plane is one that's used both for defen-
sive purposes, for patrolling, and also in
many ways for civilian use. I know when I
happened to be Governor of Georgia, I
took a trip through South America and
saw these same planes being used to haul
construction materials into the interior of
Brazil, on the Amazon River. I saw the
planes being used to haul fish to the in-
land mountain areas of Peru and to haul
breeder cattle into Colombia.
So, I think that the sale of defensive
arms, as you've described, have not hurt
the prospect for exports, even in this par-
ticular industry to which you refer.
I am determined, though, to hold down
the overall sale of offensive weapons. We
have a very strict arms sales policy not to
introduce a high technology weapon in an
area where it doesn't presently exist, to
cut down year by year the total volume
of American arms sales, where in the past
this volume has been going up. And this
policy is constraining some of our allies
and friends so far.
We've also been negotiating, talking to
our friends and allies, those like France,
Belgium, Great Britain, who have the
ability to produce and to sell weapons, to
get them to join us in this effort. And we
Union-I think three so far to try to get
have had several meetings with the Soviet
them to join with us in holding down the
volume of weapons sales around the
world.
We obviously continue to meet the re-
quirements in a defense way of nations
with whom we have mutual defense trea-
ties, like NATO, Japan, Australia, New
Zealand, and so forth. But I don't think
that this necessary constraint on the vol-
ume of arms sales is at all indicative of
our policy towards greatly enhancing the
of American manufactured
export
products.
REGULATORY REFORM
Q. Mr. President, in talking to our
readers, preparing for this trip, I have
heard what amounts to a cry from the
small business people that they are being
strangled by excessive regulations, that
even an owner of a small grain elevator
has people coming out from the Depart-
ment of Labor, from EPA and OSHA.
1593
