Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
homes, and encourage energy-saving
home improvements. This bill will also
increase the maximum grant for specially
adapted housing for the severely disabled
to $30,000.
These two bills will go far to improve
and modernize veterans benefit programs
that are critical to the well-being of those
who have bravely served our Nation.
As I sign these two bills today, I am also
looking forward to signing soon the Vet-
erans' and Survivors' Pension Improve-
ment Act of 1978.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11886 is Public Law
95-479, and H.R. 12028 is Public Law 95-476,
both approved October 18.
needs of older Americans, and also to im-
prove the delivery of those kinds of serv-
ices and opportunities.
Another very interesting feature of this
legislation is that it moves even further to
terminate, or to minimize, at least, the
discrimination against Americans because
of their age, because of their race, or be-
cause of their ethnic background.
One of the results of a very rapid im-
provement in Federal programs for the
aging has been confusion in administra-
tion. And this bill recognizes and corrects
that defect by consolidating Titles III, V,
and VII of the Older Americans Act. This
would provide now for a better adminis-
tration in a coordinated way of social pro-
grams, housing programs, programs to de-
liver food, the establishment of centers for
Comprehensive Older Americans elderly Americans.
Act Amendments of 1978
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
October 18, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This morning it's a great
pleasure for me to sign House bill 12255,
which is the amendments to the Compre-
hensive Older Americans Act, a founda-
tion for the security and better life of
Americans who reach their retirement
age.
This legislation, which is quite com-
prehensive in nature, will strengthen the
Federal Council on Aging, on which I rely
for constant advice, sometimes prodding,
sometimes counsel, sometimes criticism,
but which has been a very effective voice
within the White House for the senior
citizens of our country.
One of the things that's interesting to
me and, I think, will be exciting to older
Americans and those who care about them
is that this bill provides for a White House
Conference on the Aging in 1981. And
we will—in fact, we have already begun
to plan for that conference to assess where
we stand in our country on meeting the
One of the things that I hope this act
will provide and ensure is a more narrow
focusing of attention and services on those
who have the greatest economic and so-
cial need. We want to broaden opportun-
ities to additional older Americans, but
when there is a limited supply of funds
or facilities, of course, those should be
given on a top-priority basis to those who
have the greatest need of all.
The bill also extends for 3 years the
employment opportunities for older Amer-
icans under the ACTION programs, and
this, I believe, will be a reassuring note to
older Americans who want to have at least
partial or part-time employment in resolv-
ing some of the other problems in Amer-
ican society.
I particularly want to thank Senator
Tom Eagleton, whose wife is here with
us this morning, and also John Brademas,
who's with us with his mother. And I'd
like to ask Congressman John Brademas
if he has a comment to make before I sign
the bill.
REPRESENTATIVE BRADEMAS. Well,
you're very kind, Mr. President.
1792
