Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
bargaining position. I spread out in my
study upstairs, immediately above us, an
enormous map of the Sinai-it was proba-
bly 10 or 12 feet long and 6 or 8 feet
wide-and personally approved the draw-
ing of the interim withdrawal lines and
the final borders, even before the Israeli
and Egyptian negotiators came here. And
that was put forward to the military nego-
tiators, who in effect have adopted what
we proposed.
But I think that both sides are acting
in good faith. They have political pres-
sures at home. President Sadat legitimate-
ly wants to retain his good ties as a polit-
ical and military leader of the Arab
world. The Israelis have to be sure that
their security is certain in years ahead.
They want to retain an option of the final
status of the West Bank and Gaza. This
is all included in the Camp David
accords.
But I think that it would certainly be
obvious that both sides want peace, and I
think that's the main hope that we have
in spite of these differences.
When you balance the enormous bene-
fits with peace, compared to the horrible
consequences of failure, and then look at
the tiny differences that exist between
them now-on wording and language,
linkage, schedules, hilltops, valleys, secu-
rity outposts these things are really min-
uscule in comparison with the advantages
of peace. And their common desire for
peace is the hope of all three of us, that
we'll be successful.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, let me ask you a gen-
eral, all-purpose question about our rela-
tions with the Soviet Union. We're com-
ing up now, I hope, to a SALT agreement.
Brezhnev is getting older and visibly more
feeble with each passing year. And the
time is coming when he won't be the
leader of the Soviet Union.
How do you see our relations with the
Soviet Union developing over the rest
of this term of office and on into the
1980's?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm determined that
our relationships with the Soviet Union
will improve as we go into the next 2
years. With every passing week, we have
resolved part of the differences concern-
ing SALT. In spite of a couple of ill-
advised statements by me that we would
be having a SALT agreement within the
next few weeks-[laughter]—we have
made steady progress. And I think that
when I do meet with Brezhnev-and I
think "when" is a proper word instead
of "if;" we don't know exactly when it
will be then the agenda to be discussed
would be quite broad.
The centerpiece of it would be to cul-
minate the SALT negotiations with a
SALT II agreement. But I think at that
time we would be prepared to discuss, I
hope without any excessive time pressure
and with very good preparation, the
broadest range of differences that exist
between ourselves and the Soviet Union.
I think that in recent weeks there has
been an alleviation of tension between us.
And I would like to see that progress con-
tinue.
Q. Why is that? Why in the last few
weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say why. I
think at the time of the Shcharanskiy trial,
there was a combination of differences
that probably made us reach a low point,
at least in my own administration. And I
think since then we've moved forward on
better relations, a better understanding,
more harmony, and less disputes with
the public media.
Q. When you say you'd be prepared to
discuss the broadest range of differences
that exist between us, could you be more
2045
