Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Many people played important roles in
securing passage of this bill.
I am convinced that the bill would not
have passed without the leadership of At-
torney General Bell; the personal com-
mitment of the Director of Central In-
telligence, Admiral Turner; and the work
of Admiral Inman of the National Se-
curity Agency and Directors Webster and
Kelley of the FBI. I extend my personal
appreciation to these men and their staffs.
My administration's bill was based on
some fine work during the Ford admin-
istration under the leadership of Attor-
ney General Levi. His contribution to
this legislation was substantial, illustrating
the bipartisan nature of this process.
There was strong, effective, and bi-
partisan leadership in the Congress as
well. I particularly want to commend
Senators Kennedy, Bayh, and Garn for
helping to guide this bill to overwhelming
approval in the Senate. Chairman Boland
and Congressman Morgan Murphy of the
House Intelligence Committee and Chair-
man Rodino and Congressman Kasten-
meier of the House Judiciary Committee
undertook the hard work of moving the
bill through the House. And, once again,
I am indebted to the efforts of Speaker
O'Neill and Majority Leader Wright.
I wish as well to express my apprecia-
tion to the Vice President, who long sup-
ported this foreign intelligence reform in
the Senate and who assured the whole-
hearted commitment of the executive
branch to this important legislation.
I have said so often, one of the central
goals of my administration is to restore
the confidence of the American people
in their governmental institutions. This
act takes us one more step down that
road.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1566 is Public Law 95-
511, approved October 25.
Ethics in Government Act of 1978
Remarks on Signing S. 555 Into Law.
October 26, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very pleased this
morning to participate in a ceremony that
has great significance for our country.
During my own campaign for President, I
promised the American people that I
would do everything in my power to
guarantee integrity in the executive
branch of Government, and also obviously
I have been joined with great enthusiasm
by the Members of Congress and members
of the judiciary as well.
On May 3 of 1977, shortly after I be-
came President, I proposed legislation to
the Congress to meet these commitments.
And today I'm pleased to sign into law the
Ethics in Government Act of 1978, which
gives us added tools to ensure that the
Government is open, honest, and is free
from conflicts of interest.
of
I am pleased that no major provision
my own original proposal has been de-
leted or weakened, and that the Congress,
with our support, has actually extended
important provisions to the legislative and
judicial branches of Government. This is
a good indication of cooperation in ex-
tending these ethical standards through-
out the entire Government of our country.
This bill will provide for mandatory,
personal financial disclosures for high offi-
cials in the executive branch of Govern-
ment, for all Members of the Congress,
and for all senior members of the judicial
branch of Government as well.
The ultimate authority for or respon-
sibility for endorsing and interpreting the
provisions of the act lies in the executive
branch of Government. Substantially, it
broadens protection against abuses caused
by postemployment conflicts of interest,
so that people who have been employed in
the Government cannot use this employ-
1854
