Dec. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
pledge of equal rights, a nation finally
answered, "We Shall Overcome," and
Democrats wrote the promise of equal
opportunity in law, led by and inspired by
a great Texan, Lyndon B. Johnson.
I'm proud to be a member of the
Democratic Party. And I'm also proud to
be a member of a party of others who
should have been President, like Adlai
Stevenson and Hubert Humphrey.
We Democrats share with the founders
of this Nation a faith in the good sense
and the decency of average Americans.
We are a pioneer people who learned
early that survival and our dreams de-
pended on hard work and courage and
caring for one another. America's found-
ing principle remains the most revolu-
tionary idea in the world today—that all
people are born free.
The dreams, the courage, the ideals of
the American people have never been
lost. But for too many years, some of our
leaders did not reflect that faith. The
challenge of government in America is to
tap the greatness of a free people, but, for
a long time, government failed that chal-
lenge.
We have passed through a painful dec-
ade-a tragic war abroad and bitter divi-
sion at home; millions in unemployment
lines and the highest inflation since the
War Between the States; break-ins and
buggings, and our Nation's highest pub-
lic trust betrayed. Democrats will never
permit such anguish and embarrassment
to happen in the Nation which we love.
For too many years, the most open so-
ciety in history had a government that op-
erated in secrecy. We pledged an open
government in 1976 which the American
people could trust.
When government operates in the sha-
dow and is complicated, bloated, and im-
possible to understand, the best financed,
the most powerful, and often the most
selfish lobbies have the advantage. Aver-
age citizens, the poor and the weak, who
seek no special favors, are denied their
rightful voice. We are tearing down the
barriers between Americans and
Government. We've already passed new
ethics legislation. The Government of the
United States today belongs to the peo-
ple of the United States, and not to the
powerbrokers. And we're going to keep it
that way. And you can depend on it.
Under this administration, we have re-
stricted the use of wiretaps. No law-abid-
ing American should ever have to live in
fear that our Government will open mail,
break in a home, or eavesdrop on private
conversations. Under this administration,
we will honor personal privacy.
Instead of leadership by veto and gov-
ernment by stalemate we now have a new
Democratic partnership: President and
Congress, Governors and mayors, legis-
lators and local officials. The Congress
has rarely had a more able and respected
leadership, and certainly no President has
ever had two better allies than Speaker
Tip O'Neill and Majority Leader Robert
Byrd.
For the first time in 200 years, the Na-
tion's second highest office is a position
of full responsibility. The Vice President
is my eyes and my ears. His wisdom and
his rapidly increasing experience have
benefited our country time and again, at
home and abroad. And I know that each
one of you shares my deep respect and
gratitude for the leadership of Vice Pres-
ident Fritz Mondale.
Two years ago, the most productive
people in the world were governed by a
wasteful and an inefficient bureaucracy.
Republican Presidential candidates said
they wanted to run government in the
worst possible way, and that's exactly what
they did. We Democrats pledged to have
government as good as the American peo-
ple, and that's exactly what we are doing.
2190
