Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
join with them in a recommitment to vi-
talize the NATO Alliance. That commit-
ment will be carried out.
We've tried to get Government intru-
sion into the business community reduced.
Many regulations have been eliminated
completely. I think the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration is
much more cognizant of and much more
sensitive to the recommendations and crit-
icisms of the business community without
reducing its effectiveness in protecting the
health and safety of American workers.
We have tried to combine, in many
ways, agencies of the Government. Our
reorganization efforts so far have been
very well received by the Congress. We
have had the amazing success in deregu-
lating for the first time in many decades
one of America's great industries, that is,
airline deregulation. We have more air-
line passengers now. They pay lower fares.
And I think in almost every instance, the
profit margins of the airline companies
have gone up. I'm very proud that the
ICC Chairman, Dan O'Neal, has been
staunch in moving to deregulate the
trucking industry. I back him in this. I
realize the independence of the regulatory
agencies, but with my own voice, my own
influence, my future appointments to the
ICC, my intention is to continue this
trend.
We have many challenges ahead of us.
Our country still does not have a commit-
ment to exports of our produced goods
that prevails the consciousness of the busi-
ness leaders in other nations like Japan
and Germany. And government can help
to some degree. But this is primarily a
responsibility that falls on your shoulders.
And I think if there was a more intense
team commitment, it would be to the ad-
vantage of our own Nation and our bal-
ance of trade. I think it would be to the
advantage of your own corporations and
businesses, professional alliances in carry-
ing out the purposes for which they were
founded.
Productivity is not rising nearly so
rapidly as we would like. We are lagging
behind other nations in this respect. We
are now assessing the varied and very
complicated factors that go into the
lowered rate of increase of productivity.
We hope to make some progress in the
future.
I have some engineering and scientific
background, and I have been very deeply
committed, even in the tightest of budg-
ets, to increase the influence of the Fed-
eral Government in enhancing our re-
search and development programs in all
the agencies of the Government itself.
When Cabinet officers or the heads of
agencies were not enthusiastic about this
program, I've inspired them to be more
committed to it, because I believe that in
the long run, a viable research and devel-
opment commitment by the Federal
Government can pay rich dividends in
years ahead.
The implementation of authorization
we have on energy programs is still to be
demonstrated, but we will take full ad-
vantage of the authority, new authority
that the Congress has now given me, Dr.
Schlesinger, and others.
We have recently moved on Novem-
ber 1, under the leadership of Mike Blum-
enthal, to strengthen the American dollar,
its exchange values in international mone-
tary markets. This has been a program
that has been successful to date and, I
think, has reestablished the confidence in
our own Nation's economic commitments,
which were shaky at best just a few
months before that.
We've got a good team now evolved in
giving me economic advice and working
closely with me. Bill Miller gives us
sound advice, honoring the independence
of the Federal Reserve. Mike Blumenthal
is the Chairman of the Economic Policy
2237
