Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 26
duce these barriers through the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva.
United States export performance is
also adversely affected by the excessive
financial credits and subsidies which some
of our trading partners offer to their own
exporters. One of our major objectives
in the MTN is to negotiate an interna-
tional code restricting the use of govern-
ment subsidies for exports. In addition,
I am directing the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to undertake immediate consulations
with our trading partners to expand the
scope and tighten the terms of the exist-
ing International Arrangement on Export
Credits.
I hope that our major trading partners
will see the importance of reaching more
widespread agreements on the use of ex-
port finance to avoid a costly competition
which is economically unsound and ulti-
mately self-defeating for all of us. These
international agreements are essential to
assure that American exporters do not
face unfair competition, and this admin-
istration intends to work vigorously to
secure them.
CONCLUSION
While these initiatives will assist private
business in increasing exports, our export
problem has been building for many years,
and we cannot expect dramatic improve-
ment overnight. Increasing our exports
will take time and require a sustained ef-
fort. Announcement of my administra-
tion's export policy is not the end of our
task, but rather the beginning. To ensure
that this issue continues to receive priority
attention, I am asking Secretary Kreps,
in coordination with officials from other
concerned Government agencies, to direct
the continuation of efforts to improve our
export potential and performance.
I will shortly sign an Executive order to
reconstitute a more broadly based Presi-
dent's Export Council to bring a continu-
ous flow of fresh ideas into our Govern-
ment policymaking process. I expect this
Council to report to me annually through
the Secretary of Commerce.
Increasing U.S. exports is a major chal-
lenge for business, for labor, and for
Government. Better export performance
by the United States would spur growth
in the economy. It would create jobs. It
would strengthen the dollar and fight
inflation
There are no short-term, easy solutions.
But the actions I am announcing today
reflect my administration's determination
to give the United States trade deficit the
They are the first step in a long-term ef-
high-level, sustained attention it deserves.
fort to strengthen this Nation's export
position in world trade.
Employment Tax Credit
Legislation
Statement on Action by the Senate Finance
Committee. September 26, 1978
It is with great satisfaction that I note
the approval today by the Senate Finance
Committee of the administration's pro-
posed legislation to provide substantial tax
credits to employers willing to hire disad-
vantaged young workers, 18 to 24 years
of age.
Continued, unacceptably high levels of
unemployment for young and disadvan-
taged Americans, especially black and
Hispanic young people, require vigorous
national action. This tax credit, intro-
duced as part of my urban policy legisla-
tion in March, would enlist the private
business sector as an effective partner with
government to help us move toward a
solution of one of our most serious
problems.
1635
