Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
want to correct their problems, right on
up to Washington.
It hasn't been a program that was
evolved in Washington and handed down
to the local communities that need help.
And I think if we can retain that degree
of common sense, we can make sure that
every time we spend the taxpayer's dollar
that it's greatly magnified in its benefi-
cial effect. That's what I want to do, and
that's what your participation has helped
to make progress.
Pat Harris is kind of the linchpin of
making this thing work, and now I'd like
to turn the program over to her, if you'll
excuse me.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing. Clarence M. Mitchell, Jr., is director of
the Washington bureau of the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored People.
Following the President's remarks, Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development Pa-
tricia Roberts Harris and other administra-
tion officials conducted a briefing on the na-
tional urban policy for Federal, State, and
local officials.
On the same day, the President transmit-
ted to the Congress a report entitled "The
President's 1978 National Urban Policy Re-
port: A Biennial Report to the Congress Sub-
mitted Pursuant to Sections 702 and 703 (a),
National Urban Policy and New Communi-
ties Development Act, as Amended in 1977-
Prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, August 1978" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 147 pages).
Federal Space Management
Executive Order 12072. August 16, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
Section 205(a) of the Federal Property
and Administrative Services Act of 1949,
as amended (40 U.S.C. 486(a)), and in
order to prescribe appropriate policies
and directives, not inconsistent with that
Act and other applicable provisions of
law, for the planning, acquisition, utili-
zation, and management of Federal space
facilities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Space Acquisition.
1-101. Federal facilities and Federal
use of space in urban areas shall serve to
strengthen the Nation's cities and to make
them attractive places to live and work.
Such Federal space shall conserve exist-
ing urban resources and encourage the
development and redevelopment of cities.
1-102. Procedures for meeting space
needs in urban areas shall give serious
consideration to the impact a site selec-
tion will have on improving the social,
economic, environmental, and cultural
conditions of the communities in the ur-
ban area.
1-103. Except where such selection is
otherwise prohibited, the process for
meeting Federal space needs in urban
areas shall give first consideration to a
centralized community business area and
adjacent areas of similar character, in-
cluding other specific areas which may be
recommended by local officials.
1-104. The process of meeting Federal
space needs in urban areas shall be con-
sistent with the policies of this Order and
shall include consideration of the follow-
ing criteria:
(a) Compatibility of the site with State,
regional, or local development, redevelop-
ment, or conservation objectives.
(b) Conformity with the activities and
programs of other Federal agencies.
(c) Impact on economic development
and employment opportunities in the
urban area, including the utilization of
human, natural, cultural, and community
resources.
(d) Availability of adequate low and
moderate income housing for Federal em-
ployees and their families on a nondis-
criminatory basis.
1430
