Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 29
form act will pass. If it doesn't, when will
a crisis hit?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the crisis to
which I referred is in the legislative proc-
ess. I think if we fail, after all the work
we've done and the concentrated effort
we've put on this subject to get legislation
this year, it would be almost impossible to
resuscitate it, to start all over again with
a new Congress and proceed as far as we
have now.
It was one of the most difficult political
jobs I've ever had, at least in the House,
just to get that bill through the Post Office
and Civil Service Committee. And now, of
course, it's in the Rules Committee, and
now it's got to go to the floor.
The Senate has done a good job on civil
service reform legislation. They did elim-
inate, I think ill-advisedly, the veterans
preference proposal that we made. We've
been very eager to see the veterans prefer-
ence retained for those who genuinely de-
serve and need it-disabled veterans for a
lifetime, and those who have been dis-
charged in the last 10, now 15 years. But
to have a veterans preference retained,
say, for a naval officer who served 20
years, who has a good pension, and who
comes here and bumps, because of a vet-
erans preference, literally hundreds of
other people who might do better than he
does in a competitive examination, I
think is ill-advised.
And when the veterans preference was
originally introduced into Government
employment and promotion and reten-
tion, it was designed to help a veteran in
those transition years when he had been
in the military service, offering his life for
our country, and changed into civilian
service, to let him have an advantage in
getting a job. But it's been expanded from
year to year into such a state that it dis-
criminates against both other veterans,
like the Vietnam veterans and disabled
veterans on the one hand, and women,
blacks, and others who have to be com-
petitive.
So, the crisis that I referred to is in the
legislative process, and I think the next
2 or 3 weeks will prove whether or not
we will have this crucial legislation, not
just this year but perhaps for a long time
in the future.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, we've heard this
morning discussion on numerous signifi-
cant issues, such as civil service, the Bonn
summit.
THE PRESIDENT. That was Richard
Cooper. Did Cooper talk to you all about
Bonn?
Q. Yes. Could you just update us in
terms of the priorities of these issues as
you see it today, and also perhaps just
comment briefly on what I think is ter-
ribly significant, inflation, and just how
you see that one?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American
people place inflation at the top of the
list of things about which they are con-
cerned. And I would say that I spend
more time dealing with inflation and
all of its ramifications than any other
single subject. I just finished a meeting
just before lunch with Charlie Schultze to
not only consider immediate inflationary
indications and actions that we might
take but also the long-range inflationary
pressures, the underlying inflation rate
tied into such things as productivity per
person-hour and how that productivity
has decreased in our country from 3 per-
cent annual growth in productivity to 2
percent in the last few years. This year,
the indications are that productivity rate
is down to 1-percent increase per year.
And this has a very severe adverse effect
on our country as we compete with other
nations whose productivity increase is at
least 3 or 4 percent, some of them even
higher.
1351
