Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
full retirement benefits, a pension, and
still can come in and seek a Federal job
and get it with absolute lifetime veterans
preference.
This means that many who deserve
jobs, including Vietnam veterans who are
recently discharged, can't compete and
can't get that same job.
We also recognize that those of us who
can make the political appointments, the
10 percent at the executive level that is
permitted under the proposed law, have
a responsibility to recognize Spanish-
speaking Americans. At the executive
level now, there are 109 Latin American
citizens who have been selected by me to
serve-I think four or five times more
than ever have been before-and some of
them head up major agencies in govern-
ment, the community services agency and
the Immigration and Naturalization Serv-
ice, for instance.
So, we are trying to make progress in
this correction of discrimination that's
built into the civil service law now. It's
not deliberate at this point, but you
have
to discriminate to protect those that don't
need protection. And I think that if we
do protect the rights of veterans who have
been discharged in the last 15 years and
protect the rights of preference for those
who are disabled for a lifetime, that that
is an adequate rewarding of veterans, and
that would in effect help to solve the
problem that you've described.
Perhaps Congressman Fisher or Scotty
Campbell want to add a comment.
MR. CAMPBELL. Just a brief comment,
Mr. President. Unfortunately, one of the
provisions in the original proposal which
you made to Congress, which would have
broadened the hiring authority beyond the
current system of restricting the selection
to just a very small number, has been
taken out by both the House committee
and the Senate committee. And it is our
hope that on the floor of one or the other
of the two Houses, we will be able to get
that restored, and if so, that will help us
much in recruiting for minorities and
women and others who have suffered
discrimination.
Your point about the lack of Hispanics
and other minorities and women at the
executive levels is exactly right, and if you
look at the levels just below them, Grades
13, 14, and 15, the percentage is just as
low. That means that you aren't going to
solve the problem completely by promo-
tion policies.
There's going to have to be some
reaching outside the service to find quali-
fied people in order to do that, and I can
assure you the current leadership of the
Civil Service Commission is committed
to doing that.
THE PRESIDENT. I might just give you
two points: In the GS-16, 17, and 18
levels, 65 percent of those people are vet-
erans. Only 3 percent-
MR. CAMPBELL. White male veterans.
THE PRESIDENT. White male veterans,
excuse me. Only 3 percent of those people
are women. So we recognize not only
the problems with Spanish-speaking
Americans, but also with women, who
happen to make up a majority.
Now there is a requirement that the
selection be made from the top three peo-
ple on the list. And we asked to have a
rule of seven so that you could select for
a given opening one of the top seven.
This would at least give us a broader
range of selection.
We have an instance now in the
Washington area where there's a va-
cancy, and one of the women applicants
scored 100, perfect score, and she's 47th
on the list. There's no possibility that she
would be selected because of abuse of the
veterans preference. But I want to make
clear that we are trying to keep the vet-
erans preference for those recently dis-
1373
