Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Consumers have a major input, also, in
their buying patterns and particularly in
the percentage of their income spent ver-
sus income retained in savings accounts.
I think that the system is balanced as best
I can envision it.
The Federal Reserve will obviously
modify its interest policy compatible with
the amount of money on hand which is
related to the inflation rate.
So, I prefer lower interest rates. I'll
do everything I can to encourage lower
interest rates within the bounds of the
law by controlling Federal policy to get
inflation under control.
Q. Mr. President, in that connection,
would you, fitting in increases in oil and
gas prices along the same lines as inter-
est rates-how do increases in oil and gas
prices fit into that, into the anti-inflation
program?
THE PRESIDENT. As is the case in al-
most every answer I've given you this
morning, there are two sides of the issue
in domestic and international affairs-
our relations with the Soviets, our rela-
tions with Egypt and Israel, our relations
with the Congress, controlling inflation
versus meeting the needs of our people.
Tell me exactly what you asked.
Q. I was wondering how allowing in-
creases in gas and oil prices perhaps
would fit in with fighting inflation.
THE PRESIDENT. There again, one of
the problems with our economy is exces-
sive imports of oil, in particular, which
increase our trade deficit, which lowers
the value of the dollar, which increases
inflation. It's estimated that every 10-
percent drop in the price of the dollar
causes a 1 to 12 percent increase in the
inflation rate here at home. Since we im-
posed the monetary requirements which
stabilized the dollar, the dollar's appre-
ciated about 10 percent, which is a major
contributing factor to holding down
inflation.
Increasing the price of oil and gas, al-
though it costs the consumers more in
this country, decreases consumption,
causes the consumers to shift to other
forms of energy-which doesn't work any
particular hardship on them in the long
run-cuts down our imports, helps to bal-
ance our trade, strengthens the dollar,
and controls inflation. So, it's a very com-
plicated process, obviously.
What I proposed to the Congress in
April of 1977 was to increase the price of
oil to the world market price and refund
that increased cost directly back to the
consumers as rapidly and as equitably as
possible. That would have had minimal
inflationary results. It would raise the
price of oil, collect the increased price,
reduce consumption of oil, give the
money right back to the consumers
through some mechanism that we pro-
posed. Ours was a reduction in income tax
which would be mirrored immediately in
income deductions from biweekly pay-
checks. So, this is the kind of interrela-
tionships that make the economic situa-
tion difficult to understand and results
uncertain.
I haven't found any easy questions to
answer since I've been in this office. They
are all difficult. I don't object to the re-
sponsibility, and I've enjoyed the job.
And I believe that we will be successful
because of the basic strength of our coun-
try. I think the world looks for us to be
responsible, and in addition to solving our
own domestic economic problems, we
have a responsibility to the world.
The stability of the dollar is important
to every nation on Earth. How well we
control inflation, how well we stabilize
the value of the dollar will determine to
a substantial degree the price set for oil
by the OPEC nations, for instance. And
how much trust other people have in our
country on domestic affairs has a direct
influence on me, as an able leader, even
2048
