Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Wilson, North Carolina
Remarks at a Democratic Party Rally for
John Ingram. August 5, 1978
Senator Bob Morgan, Senator [Governor]
Jim Hunt, one of the finest products that
Wilson, North Carolina, has ever pro-
duced, future Senator John Ingram, my
good friend, distinguished members of
the State government, and Members of
Congress whom I'll mention a little later:
Let me say that I'm very proud to be
the first President of the United States to
come to Wilson, North Carolina. If they
had known what I've seen today in the
form of a welcome, all of them would
have been here, just like I've come today.
It's good to come to wide-awake Wil-
son. [Laughter] And I hope that after
you've lost your rooster that used to
wake people up, that you'll still be able to
keep the image that you have now.
I had planned today to bring Joe Cali-
fano with me. He decided not to come.
He discovered that not only is North
Carolina the number one tobacco-
producing State, but that you produce
more bricks than anyone in the Nation as
well. [Laughter]
He did encourage me to come, though.
He said it was time for the White House
staff to start smoking something regular.
[Laughter] I would like to say a word in
his defense, because as I am a farmer, as
I am deeply interested in the small farm-
ers of this Nation, as I am deeply com-
mitted, and permanently, to a fine tobacco
loan program, obviously I'm also inter-
ested in the health of America.
I would say that the tobacco industry,
the tobacco farmers, the Federal Govern-
ment, all citizens want to have an accu-
rate and an enlightened education pro-
gram and research program to make the
smoking of tobacco even more safe than
it is today. And we'll continue these joint
programs within which I don't see any
incompatibility.
I've seen great strides made in our
country in recent years in the proper
understanding of the farm community.
My own people, the Carter family,
moved to Georgia from North Carolina.
They were farmers. They produced the
two greatest crops in my life-peanuts
and tobacco.
And as I drove in from the airport, I
felt at home, because I saw the tobacco
fields and the cotton fields, the sweet
potato fields, the soybean fields that have
made this not only a great producing
area but a great marketing area. And I
know that in the marketing of flue-cured
tobacco, Wilson, North Carolina, has the
greatest market in the entire world.
My sister moved back to North Caro-
lina and lives not far from here in
Fayetteville, North Carolina. And I think
you all know, as has already been men-
tioned before, that I feel an additional
kinship for you, because in 1976, when I,
as a lonely candidate, came into North
Carolina to face formidable opposition,
you gave me your hand, you gave me
your hearts, you gave me your votes, and
you helped put me in the White House.
And I won't ever forget it.
I'm particularly glad to be in North
Carolina because of some of the men on
the platform here today, particularly
your great Democratic Senator, Bob
Morgan. He's a man of courage. He's a
man of great intelligence. He's a man
whose roots have given him a proper
perspective. And although he represents,
of course, in his decisions in the Senate,
the entire Nation, his heart and his soul
and his great allegiance is to the people
of this great State.
I served as Governor before I became
President, and I've seen at first hand the
superb, young leadership exemplified by
Jim Hunt. He still works closely with me.
1386
