Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 21
United States-Federal Republic
of Germany Agreements on
Social Security
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreements. September 21, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to section 233 (e) (1) of the
Social Security Act as amended by the
Social Security Amendments of 1977
(P.L. 95-216; 42 U.S.C. 433), I am
transmitting the Agreement between the
United States of America and the Federal
Republic of Germany (F.R.G.), signed
on January 7, 1976, the Final Protocol
to the 1976 Agreement, also signed on
January 7, 1976, and the Administrative
Agreement to implement the 1976 Agree-
ment, signed on June 21, 1978.
These U.S.-F.R.G. Agreements are sim-
ilar in objective to the U.S.-Italian social
security agreements which I submitted
to the Congress on February 28, 1978.
Such bilateral agreements, which are gen-
erally known as totalization agreements,
provide for limited coordination between
the United States and foreign social se-
curity systems to overcome the problems
of gaps in protection and of dual cover-
age and taxation. In addition to remedy-
ing these problems, the 1976 U.S.-F.R.G.
Agreement and Administrative Agree-
ment would extend under specified condi-
tions voluntary coverage rights under the
F.R.G. system to U.S. citizens who have a
prior connection with the F.R.G. system
or who reside in the United States and
were victims of persecution.
I also transmit for the information of
the Congress a comprehensive report pre-
pared by the Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, which explains the
provisions of the Agreement and provides
data on the number of persons affected
by the agreements and the effect on social
security financing as required by the same
provision of the Social Security Amend-
ments of 1977.
The Department of State and the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare join in commending this Agreement,
Protocol, and Administrative Agreement.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 21, 1978.
Council on Wage and Price
Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. September 21, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the
Congress the fourteenth quarterly report
of the Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity. This report contains a description of
the Council's activities during the first
quarter of 1978 in monitoring both prices
and wages in the private sector and vari-
ous Federal Government activities that
may lead to higher costs and prices with-
out creating commensurate benefits. It
discusses Council reports, analyses, and
filings before Federal regulatory agencies.
The Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity will continue to play an important role
in supplementing fiscal and monetary
policies by calling public attention to wage
and price developments or actions by the
Government that could be of concern to
American consumers.
The White House,
September 21, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "A Quarterly
Report of the Council on Wage and Price
Stability: First Quarter, 1978-Executive Of-
fice of the President, Washington, D.C., No.
14" (Government Printing Office, 27 pages).
1559
