July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
spoken up for human rights. What is your
opinion of the antiradicals legislation in
the Federal Republic of Germany?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
the details of the legislation to which you
refer. I know that all countries, including
my own, has to be very careful to balance
the right of dissidents to speak, but to pro-
tect the lives and the property of innocent
human beings who give support and who
control the government.
And my own assessment of the Federal
Republic's laws is that in dealing with
terrorism and other threats to peaceful
human beings and to the state, that they
have been very careful to preserve the
basic human rights, of which I approve.
AMY CARTER
Q. Mr. President, my name is Uwe
Horstmeyer. I'm 12 years old, and I'm a
student. My question is: Mr. President,
how much pocket money per week does
your daughter Amy get? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Zero. [Laughter] The
public benefits that Amy does get are
limited to traveling with me and her
mother-like on this trip, she came on Air
Force One, which is the President's plane.
And we have enjoyed staying 2 nights at
the American Ambassador's home in
Bonn. And as she relates to the other
members of her family, particularly my-
self, she gets that kind of benefit. But she
gets no allowance, no money, from the
Federal Treasury. [Laughter]
That gives me a good idea. I might
bring that up with the American Con-
gress when I go back home.
BERLIN AND THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
GERMANY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Werner
Schatt. I'm a businessman. My ques-
tion is: How do you assess the allo-
cations of the eastern side, according to
the four-power agreement? There are no
ties between the western sectors of Ber-
lin and the Federal Republic of Germany,
but only communication links. Probably
they refer only to the land links. What is
your assessment of that allocation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there's an
equivalent assessment on the eastern side.
Under the Quadripartite Agreement, the
way I understand it, stronger ties of com-
munication and relationships between
West Berlin and the Federal Republic are
encouraged, according to the text of the
Quadripartite Agreement. It's under that
kind of understanding, for instance, that
Chancellor Schmidt is here with me to-
day, and it's one of the reasons that I'm
here today. I want to make sure that the
strongest possible ties are encouraged be-
tween West Berlin and the Federal Re-
public of Germany, short of an actual
political inclusion of Berlin into the rest
of the balance of Germany.
So I think that as these ties of com-
munication, transportation, trade, com-
merce, culture are changed, even under
the Quadripartite Agreement, that
change should be to strengthen them and
not to weaken them.
ACCESS TO BERLIN
Q. Mr. President, my name is Heidrun
Schlauss. I'm a commercial secretary, but
I'm also a housewife. I would like to ask
you this, Mr. President: Access traffic to
Berlin was impaired by the other side since
this morning. The reason given is that you
are visiting Berlin and that the Federal
Chancellor is with you. Will you tell the
world about it, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, on occasion, the
GDR has tried to show some ability to in-
terfere with normal commerce and traf-
fic. This has primarily been of a temporary
or transient nature. It has no permanent
damage to us, although it is in violation
1300
