Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Natural Gas Legislation
Remarks on the Congressional Conference
Committee Report on the Legislation.
August 18, 1978
The next step will be for the Senate to
make a decision about the conference
committee report. My hope and expecta-
tion is that the individual Members of the
Senate will show the same deep interest, a
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every- willingness to be flexible, a willingness to
body.
Last night the House and Senate con-
ferees on the energy legislation reached
agreement on one of the most difficult as-
pects of the entire energy package, and
that is natural gas, ending a 30-year de-
bate on this question. Now the conference
reports will go to the House and Senate
for further action.
This is a major step forward under the
most difficult of circumstances, and I and
everyone in our country owe the House
and Senate conferees a debt of gratitude
for their assistance and tenacity and their
willingness to accommodate their own
deeply felt personal and sectional inter-
ests in the best interests of our country.
This legislation, when passed, will give
us a new national market, making avail-
able new supplies of natural gas which
will be at a lower price than competitive
foreign oil. The bill is specially designed
to protect homeowners and small business
leaders, small businesses.
It's also designed to give industry ade-
quate supplies of natural gas at a good
and competitive price. The bill encour-
ages additional American production of
natural gas, gives better prices in the fu-
ture, and more sure prices in the future
for those producers, at the same time
protecting the interests of consumers.
We have been especially careful in nat-
ural gas legislation and the other ele-
ments of the overall energy package to
protect the interests of the poor, the un-
derprivileged, and those who don't have
the flexible capability to accommodate
changing prices.
accommodate the needs of our Nation, as
have the conferees themselves.
There is no doubt that this legislation,
when passed, will protect the security in-
terests of our country. It will protect the
energy interests of our country. It will
help us to assure continued prosperity and
jobs for the American people. It will help
us to control inflation; it will also help us
to have a more stable economy and to
protect the integrity of the dollar overseas.
All these benefits that will come from
this legislation when and if it is passed,
I'm sure, will be an inspiration to the
very
Members of the House and Senate to act
expeditiously and positively on this
difficult and challenging but very impor-
tant legislation.
Jim, are you prepared to answer ques-
tions?
SECRETARY SCHLESINGER. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Schlesinger,
who's done a superb job in bringing to-
gether disparate opinions and working
very continuously with legislation perhaps
as complex as any that's ever faced
the Congress, will now answer questions
that you might have.
REPORTER. Did you have to make any
promises to Rangel and Corman that we
should know about to get them to sign?
THE PRESIDENT. That you need to
know about?
Q. That we should know about.
[Laughter] Did you have to promise
them something?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The only thing
they were interested in was that I would
repeat for the Congress and for the
American public my interests along with
1452
