Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, archeological, biological,
and other phenomena enumerated above
supports now, as it has in the past, the
unique subsistence culture of the local res-
idents. The continued existence of this
culture, which depends upon subsistence
hunting, and its availability for study, en-
hances the historic and scientific values of
the natural objects protected herein be-
cause of the ongoing interaction of the
subsistence culture with those objects. Ac-
cordingly, the opportunity for local resi-
dents to engage in subsistence hunting is a
value to be protected and will continue
under the administration of the monu-
ment.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes the
President, in his discretion, to declare by
public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and
other objects of historic or scientific in-
terest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all cases
shall be confined to the smallest area com-
patible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section
2 of the Act of June 8, 1905 (34 Stat. 225,
16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there
are hereby set apart and reserved as the
Noatak National Monument all lands, in-
cluding submerged lands, and waters
owned or controlled by the United States
within the boundaries of the area depicted
as the Noatak National Monument on the
map numbered NOAT-90,004 attached
to and forming a part of this Proclama-
tion. The area reserved consists of approx-
imately 5,800,000 acres, and is the small-
est area compatible with the proper care
and management of the objects to be pro-
tected. Lands, including submerged lands,
and waters within these boundaries not
owned by the United States shall be re-
served as a part of the monument upon
acquisition of title thereto by the United
States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section 17
(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in this
Proclamation is intended to modify or re-
voke the terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding dated September 1, 1972,
entered into between the State of Alaska
and the United States as part of the nego-
tiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton,
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
2137
