Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
prevailed in the past which prevent better
services by your government and my gov-
ernment for the people who look to you
and me for guidance and for leadership
and for service. We've tried to eliminate
paperwork. We've tried to tear down the
barriers that have separated one Federal
agency from another and, in the process,
have made congressionally mandated pro-
grams less effective, and which have at the
same time made it much more difficult
for Americans who deserve service to ac-
quire it.
This afternoon, we are announcing, to
some degree coincidentally with your
visit, some improvements in water and
sewage grant procedures. We have about
a $22 billion program to give those
Americans who don't have adequate
water and sewage facilities that opportu-
nity for a better and healthier life.
In the past we've not had common
application forms, common accounting
forms, common requirements among
EPA, EDA, and the Farm Home Admin-
istration. That is being corrected.
In the past there have been 16-at
least 16-different Federal agencies that
prescribed standards that had to be met
before progress could be made in meeting
these needs of rural people. In the future
that will not be the case. There will be
one central clearing procedure, and then
the standards of all 16 agencies will as-
sume to have been met.
We are trying to take full advantage of
employment opportunities in the Depart-
ment of Labor and perhaps other agencies
as well, to prescribe, with a maximum
saving for American people, human, ad-
ditional services in the rural areas to make
sure that the people who need a better life
can have access effectively to Govern-
ment programs. We'll be adding about
1,700 or so I think 1,750-additional
employees, without any increase in Fed-
eral budget requirements, that will deal
specifically with the alleviation of ob-
stacles that have separated rural commu-
nities from a better life.
I won't pursue that any further, be-
cause you'll get more specific details about
it later. But I would like to close my own
remarks by saying that almost every deci-
sion made here in the White House over
in the Oval Office or by the Congress
affects you and the people whom you
serve.
Recently in this very room I signed into
law five major pieces of legislation estab-
lishing for the first time a basis for a
national energy policy. Those bills were
extremely complicated. They were the
final result of tough negotiations by a wide
range of interest groups. They had to
accommodate even tiny, geographical,
unique problems where the Congress had
to say, "We don't want to mistreat a par-
ticular county in their method of produc-
tion of natural gas or oil or their special
requirements." They deal with electric
power production and encourage conser-
vation, shift toward the use of more
plentiful supplies of fuels, and also, of
course, open the way for research and
development to develop new supplies of
energy in the years to come.
These legislative acts must be thor-
oughly studied and understood by you,
because along with TVA and other major
cooperative groups, you will be directly
affected by how these new laws will be
administered. And I don't want to make
and others to make a mistake in failing
a mistake; I don't want Jim Schlesinger
to accommodate the special needs that
you might have or the special advice and
counsel and constructive criticism that
you might offer. And if you wait until
after a regulation is promulgated or a de-
cision is made, quite often it's very diffi-
cult to modify that decision. But if, in the
initial stages of the formulation of a pol-
2108
