Oct. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
court will be reviewed in the same fashion
before any final decisions are made.
I am happy to sign the omnibus judge-
ship act today. Our Nation needs these
new judges, and it is important that they
be the most qualified lawyers available. In
filling these judicial openings, we must
bear firmly in mind the vital issues these
men and women will deal with-issues
that will affect our national life well into
the 21st century.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7843 is Public Law
95-486, approved October 20.
Domestic Copper Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a
Report. October 20, 1978
To Speaker Thomas O'Neill (To Vice
President Walter Mondale)
In accordance with section 203(b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
decision that import relief on unwrought,
unalloyed copper is not in the national
economic interest, and explaining the rea-
sons for my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
UNWROUGHT, UNALLOYED COPPER
As required by section 203(b) (2) of
the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting
this report to Congress setting forth the
actions I will take with respect to un-
wrought, unalloyed copper covered by the
affirmative finding, on August 23, 1978,
of the U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion (USITC) under section 201(d) (1)
of the Trade Act. As my decision differs
from that recommended by the USITC, I
have included the reasons for my decision.
After considering all relevant aspects
of this case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief is not in the national economic
interest for the following reasons:
1. Import relief would impose signifi-
cant costs on U.S. consumers of un-
wrought, unalloyed copper (refined cop-
per). The increases in refined copper
prices resulting from provision of relief
could create incentives for circumvention
of relief through increased imports of
other copper products such as scrap,
blister, and fabricated items. This would
effectively reduce the level of protection
provided to the domestic copper industry.
Moreover, domestic copper fabricators
would be faced with higher refined copper
input costs and, at the same time, possible
increased import competition in fabri-
cated products.
2. Domestic copper market conditions
have improved during 1978 and there is
an improving outlook over the next sev-
eral years for both the U.S. and world
copper markets. U.S. and world copper
prices have risen during 1978 and the
world inventory overhang has declined.
Domestic refined copper production in-
creased during the first part of 1978; and
imports have begun to decline from the
high levels prevailing during the first part
of the year.
3. Provision of import relief would sub-
ject U.S. jobs in other industries to pos-
sible foreign retaliation against U.S. ex-
ports or compensation by the United
States in the form of reducing import re-
strictions on other products.
4. Import relief would adversely affect
U.S. international economic interests. It
would be contrary to our efforts to reduce
trade barriers in the MTN and to devel-
op cooperative international solutions to
the world copper industry's problems in
1804
