Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 1
Federal Government Travel Costs Securities Investor Protection
Memorandum From the President.
September 1, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Reduction in 1979 Administra-
tive Travel Costs
It is extremely important at this time,
when we are trying to hold down infla-
tion, that every effort be made to reduce
Government travel costs. All travel must
be limited to the absolute minimum nec-
essary to carry out your programs.
Specifically, I ask that you reduce fis-
cal year 1979 administrative travel costs
by 20% below the amount estimated in
the 1979 budget transmitted to the Con-
gress. Administrative travel is defined to
include all travel that is not directly re-
lated and essential to the performance of
a Federal program.
While I am not directing that travel
for program purposes be reduced by a
specific amount, I do ask that you limit
all travel to purposes that are clearly nec-
essary and cannot be accomplished effec-
tively in any other way. The proper man-
agement of travel should permit reduc-
tion in travel budgets for program as well
as for administrative purposes.
I am asking the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget to provide
Government-wide instructions to achieve
this reduction.
I count on your full cooperation in di-
recting your agency to help reduce the
amounts spent for Government's travel.
JIMMY CARTER
Corporation
Nomination of Adolph P. Schuman To Be a
Director. September 1, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Adolph P. Schuman, of
San Francisco, Calif., to be a Director
of the Securities Investor Protection Cor-
poration. Schuman will be nominated for
the term expiring December 31, 1978,
and for reappointment for a term expir-
ing December 31, 1981. He will be desig-
nated Vice Chairman of the Corporation.
Schuman was born November 22, 1911,
in San Francisco. He studied business ad-
ministration and economics. He served in
the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve from 1940
to 1944.
Schuman is president of Lilli Ann
Corp., a women's apparel firm. He is
chairman of the California World Trade
Authorities Coordinating Council, a di-
rector of the Commission for National
Trade Policy, and a member of the na-
tional and California regional Export Ex-
pansion Councils of the Commerce De-
partment.
Labor Day, 1978
Message of the President. September 1, 1978
On this, the second Labor Day of my
Administration, more Americans hold
jobs than at any time in our Nation's his-
tory. Unemployment has been dramati-
cally slashed. Our workers are earning
more and producing more than ever be-
fore-last month, the Gross National
Product passed the milestone two trillion
dollar mark. Though inflation is a major
concern, we are working hard to combat
1483
