Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
be used to the maximum degree practical
in encouraging Senators to cooperate with
me in appointing both and recommending
both women and blacks, other minority
groups, for those district judgeships.
Q. Could I follow that question up,
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Mr.
Q. I wanted to follow up on that a
minute.
Senator Byrd has said that he is not
going to reconsider anything but what
the commission has passed to him—and I
do want to congratulate you on setting up
these commissions that are formed at the
State level-but he has said he's not going
to consider any other names.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Well, I might say that if something of
that kind cannot be resolved, then there
would be no appointment in Virginia,
because the way the Senate operates—and
this is not my preference-Senator Byrd
could tell the Judiciary Committee that
any Senate nominee was unacceptable to
him, and the Senate Judiciary Committee
would not act. That's the present
prospect.
But we hope that as the process is dem-
onstrated to be feasible, that-I'm not
commenting specifically on Senator Byrd;
I'm not familiar with his recommenda-
tions yet--but we hope that there will be
a growing inclination on the part of the
Senators to act in good faith and to ac-
commodate my policy of broadening the
appointments.
Q. Mr. President, would it be unfair to
have you comment on any number, any
specific number of minority or women
Federal judges you expect to appoint in
that 152 number? You know, that was
the figure that was publicized as being the
number of slots that you intend to fill,
and, of course, you specified that you
want minorities and women. But have
you formulated in your own mind any
estimate as to how many of that 152—
would half be adequate in your estima-
tion, less than half?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not prepared to
answer that question. I don't know. It's
not a question of fairness; I just haven't
made those decisions yet. The only thing
I can say is that I think one of the recent
legal journals—I don't know the name of
it; I think I sent a copy of it to Jody-
assesses what I have done already in that
respect. You are welcome to look it over.
And, of course, whenever I make a deci-
sion on judicial appointments or on the
Federal budget or anything else, my action
is subject to public scrutiny and public
condemnation if I don't perform well. I
do the best I can. Sometimes my author-
ity is limited.
firmation of appointees, I could just tell
If I didn't have to get Senate con-
you flatly that 12 percent of all my judi-
cial appointments would be blacks and 3
percent would be Spanish-speaking and
40 percent would be women and so forth.
But that's not a matter that's entirely in
my hands. I'll do the best I can. And if I
fail to satisfy you or others, then I'm cer-
tainly a good target for criticism or con-
demnation. I'll try to avoid that prospect.
WAGE INCREASES FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS
Q. Mr. President, the first big challenge
to your wage and price guideline program
seems to be coming not from the Team-
sters or one of the other big unions, but
from some public officials of Illinois and
Ohio at the State and local level. I'm
wondering how important you consider
that these pay increases be rolled back to
the future of your program-in other
words, whether smaller people down the
line can be expected to adhere to the
guidelines if the public officials don't
adhere to them?
2175
