Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a result of this reasonableness shown on
both sides of the bargaining table, you will
find that our recent contract settlements
here have on an average already come
well within your suggested wage guide-
lines.
If industry will do its share to hold
down the prices at or below the guide-
lines in levels in the future, we in the area
labor movement have already demon-
strated that we will hold up our end of
the bargaining on the wage side.
Now, my question is twofold: Your
program calls for all Americans to make
a sacrifice, and particularly on workers to
bite the bullet on their wage requests and
businessmen to limit their price hikes.
What most workers would like to know,
however, is what assurance you have that
prices and that the other factors that
cause inflation can be controlled. And
second, judging from the press reports of
Congressmen's negative reaction to your
safety-valve tax credit program, what are
the realistic chances of congressional ap-
proval of that plan?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kelly, that's a
very fine statement, and I appreciate what
you had to say.
We got about as much support for our
program from Mr. Meany as we had an-
ticipated. We knew that he preferred
mandatory wage and price controls,
which I do not intend to implement. But
he also said that he was willing to co-
operate and, of course, was not demand-
ing that the international unions refuse to
cooperate with our voluntary program.
And I believe that there will be a growing
cooperation, not only as you've already
demonstrated in Missouri but throughout
the country, from the working people of
our Nation and also, of course, the orga-
nized labor movement itself.
It's my responsibility to carry out my
part of the bargain, Mr. Kelly, and this is
in answer to your question. I don't intend
to violate any of the commitments that
I made in my speech last week. We will
cut down the Federal deficit. We will
maintain a commitment to good programs
for the American people. We will protect
the interests of the average consumer and
the average working person in our Nation.
We will eliminate waste. We will make
sure we have adequate regulation, but
without unnecessary burdens that would
cause jobs to leave our country and with-
out causing the price of American prod-
ucts to go up.
The first proof of acceptance, of course,
will come from the business community.
We are in the process now of contacting
the 500 largest employers in our Nation to
get them to agree to comply with the
standards that we've prescribed, which is
roughly 5¾4-percent increase on an aver-
age in prices, but one-half percentage
point below the average increase in price
for the last 2 years. And I think that as
we go along, as contracts are negotiated
by labor, you will be able to see the degree
of compliance by the business community
itself.
I'm very determined that the Congress
will pass the real wage insurance program
that I advocated. My own assessment of
the telephone calls that we've made to key
Congress Members has been very positive.
This will be a top priority of ours, and I
believe the Congress will realize that one
of the bases on which we can have success
in controlling inflation is to give workers a
guarantee that they will not lose if they
comply with the 7-percent guideline
standard. And I don't believe Congress
will fail, because there's a general, broad
support in our country for controlling
inflation.
This will be a very simple request to
the Congress. We will have the legislation
drafted before the Congress goes into ses-
sion in January. It will be thoroughly dis-
cussed with the key Members of Congress
1912
