Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
passed, CPB and the stations can go to
work creating the institutions that will
assure a constant flow of excellent, inno-
vative programs. CPB can use multiyear
grants to build up production centers to
focus on such areas as news coverage,
programs aimed at women and minorities,
and children's programing. Such centers,
along with vigorous local programing, can
help continue public broadcasting's prog-
ress toward a central role in our Nation's
communications system.
I do have one reservation about this
bill. I regret it retains the provision for-
bidding public stations to editorialize. I
recommended deleting that clause, be-
cause public broadcasters should have the
same first amendment rights as other
broadcasters.
In addition to signing the bill, I am
issuing guidelines on direct grants by Fed-
eral agencies. This bill does not cover
those grants, but they provide a substan-
tial proportion of the funds available for
innovative programing. The guidelines
will improve coordination of these grants,
help inform producers and public broad-
casters about their availability, and help
ensure that these funds are never used for
improper political control of program
content.
The public broadcasting system is con-
stantly evolving in response to the public's
needs and to the opportunities presented
by new telecommunications technologies.
This bill is a step in that process. The
House Communications Subcommittee is
already considering future steps as part
of its comprehensive effort to modernize
the Communications Act. I look forward
to the report of the Carnegie Commission
on the Future of Public Broadcasting, due
this winter, to help chart public broad-
casting's course for the 1980's.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12605 is Public Law
95-567, approved November 2.
Reclamation Safety of Dams Act
of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2820 Into Law.
November 2, 1978
I am signing today S. 2820, the Recla-
mation Safety of Dams Act of 1978, a bill
that provides much-needed aid to preserve
the structural safety of dams under the
stewardship of the Bureau of Reclama-
tion.
The act provides that the costs of con-
struction and maintenance needed as a
result of simple aging and normal dete-
rioration will continue to be shared with
beneficiaries under terms of current con-
tracts and agreements.
I do note, however, that the bill ex-
empts from normal cost-sharing require-
ments any upgrading undertaken as a re-
sult of new hydrologic or seismic data or
due to changes in state-of-the-art criteria.
This could apply even when a project
may have vendible outputs and the bene-
ficiaries are normally required and able
to share the capital costs. I am concerned
that in these cases, the Federal taxpayer
is assuming a cost which is generally a
normal expense for project beneficiaries.
However, dam safety is a very im-
portant matter that needs attention now.
Therefore, I am signing this act.
I also believe the public interest de-
mands that we reform cost-sharing poli-
cies for future projects. We need a more
uniform and equitable balance between
the Federal Government and the projects'
direct beneficiaries. I announced such an
initiative in my water policy message last
spring, and I plan to propose to the next
session of Congress a more coherent and
fair policy. That proposal would ensure
that the public's safety is protected, that
the Federal taxpayer does not pay the en-
1928
