Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
Four years ago, I was the national
chairman for the Democratic Party's elec-
tion campaign. And when Bill Hughes
first ran for Congress, many people said
that if this young man is elected to the
Congress, we will never have a chance to
have NAFEC stay here where it is. Well,
I think because you elected him to the
Congress, NAFEC is not only here but it's
being greatly expanded for the benefit of
you and for our country as well. And I
want to express my special thanks to him.
He has worked long, hard, difficult,
grueling hours with administration offi-
cials and the FAA, other Members of
Congress, to recruit support for this effort.
The entire New Jersey delegation helped
him strongly in the House of Representa-
tives. And as you well know, Senators Wil-
liams and Case were responsible for
getting the project approved on the Sen-
ate side.
Thanks should also go to others who
have already been mentioned-Bob Faith
was helpful, of course, as was the Save
NAFEC Committee, Mayor Lazarow, Al
Marks, Robert Gasko, Chuck Worthing-
ton, Louis Dalberth, State Senator Per-
skie,ยน all of Atlantic County joined in with
you in helping to achieve this great vic-
tory which was fought under the most
difficult circumstances. It shows that a
team effort pays off.
All of you can be very proud of your
role in keeping NAFEC in this State. And
I think more importantly for me than the
location of it is the tremendous approval
ยน Robert Faith, director, National Aviation
Facilities Experimental Center, Joseph Laza-
row, mayor of Atlantic City, Al Marks, chair-
man of the Atlantic County Improvement
Authority, Robert Gasko, Atlantic County
Freeholder, Charles Worthington, Atlantic
County Executive, Louis Dalberth, director,
Southern New Jersey Development Council,
and Stephen Perskie, New Jersey State senator.
for expansion of this much-needed facili-
ty. The struggle was tough, the frustra-
tions were many, but in the end the efforts
of you and your representatives tri-
umphed. And I'm glad to join with you
this morning in saying that you will not
be wearing Oklahoma cowboy hats after
all. [Laughter]
Today, we in the United States are
reaffirming our commitment to safe and
efficient civilian aviation. And we are
showing our faith also in New Jersey's
ability to carry out this very difficult as-
signment. We are laying the cornerstone
for a permanent, expanded presence of
NAFEC here in New Jersey.
In the short run, this construction proj-
ect will mean 1,800 to 2,000 jobs right
here on the site. In addition, at least that
many more will be engendered around
this community for supportive construc-
tion projects. The direct investment here
will be $50 million, which will mean at
least $200 million in benefits, direct or
indirect, to this community.
More importantly, though, in the long
run, a permanent, more modern experi-
mental center for ensuring aviation safety
will mean the economic stability of this
area and a better life for all the people of
our country. By providing better services
for testing, for research and development
in areas like air traffic control, communi-
cations, navigation, airports, aircraft, we
are making sure that the science of avia-
tion keeps pace with a society whose peo-
ple more and more turn to air travel to
meet the needs of their lives.
Throughout its 20 years of existence
and service, this facility has led the way
in developing new technologies for civil-
ian enterprise, which has given our Na-
tion the safest possible record in the air
of all modes of transportation. Its experi-
1543
