Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
Business Council
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Meeting of the Council.
December 13, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's a pleasure to be with
you tonight. I look around the group, and
I think in a close vote the administration
could just about equal the business lead-
ers of our country. [Laughter] But I would
hope that the vote would be unanimous
on any controversial issue that affects our
country.
I am honored to have this opportunity
to come back and talk to you, a group of
men and women who helped to shape the
economic present and future of our great
country. I think I should begin my own
remarks as President of our Nation by ex-
pressing my deep thanks to you for the
help that you've given me and to our Na-
tion's Government since the last time I
appeared here. You've given me advice,
counsel, sometimes criticism, constructive
always, and when I've called on you to
help me with matters of great importance,
you have never failed to be very forth-
coming in your aid to me.
When I faced the difficult political
question of the Panama Canal treaties,
you responded with superb influence, and
I could not have succeeded in having
those treaties ratified without the help of
those in this room.
You speak with a voice that is carefully
monitored and with opinions that are
carefully assessed. And I think your own
influence at times might be even under-
estimated by you.
In the civil service reform effort, as you
know, the first time in a hundred years,
your strong voice as managers, as business
leaders, was highly effective in shaping the
opinion of the Congress.
Perhaps the most far-reaching and dif-
ficult legislation that the Congress has
ever considered was the five bills passed
to shape the first part of a national en-
ergy policy. Again, your advice and coun-
sel was crucial. In fact, in every matter
concerning economics you have been in
the forefront of my assistance, and I
deeply appreciate it. And, of course, in
that process you have helped to shape the
political posture of our Nation as well.
We have a very good interrelationship
between the leaders of the free enterprise
system on the one hand, and the leaders
of our government on the other. And I
think this interrelationship open, frank,
carefully observed, assessed by the pub-
lic-is proper and advisable and good for
our Nation. I've never had any of you or
your fellow business leaders approach me
on any occasion with a request or a sug-
gestion that I interpreted as President to
be selfish or contrary to the best interests
of our country. And I thank you for that
enlightened attitude as well.
As a matter of fact, on occasion, many
of you-John DeButts, Tom Murphy,
Irving Shapiro, Ray Jones, and others-
have made suggestions to me that in bal-
ance might very well have worked coun-
ter to the profit margin of their own cor-
porations if they knew that in the process
the overall character and strength and
well-being of our Nation would be en-
hanced.
We have made some progress in the
last, almost 2 years. The unemployment
rate has dropped from 8 percent to about
5.8 percent, and it's leveled off lately. We
have been pleased with this. We've added
a net of about 7 million new jobs-660,-
000 new jobs, I believe, in November
alone-when predictions were that the
jobless rate would go up sharply during
the fall. This has resulted in a decrease
of about 1,300,000 Americans who were
formerly on welfare and are now self-
supporting. The fact is that we still have
2235
