Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 27
with Senator Hubert Humphrey-who
could not be here today, but is with us in
spirit—and Muriel has worked untiringly.
And Gus Hawkins, who has worked very
closely with us, the Congressional Black
Caucus, and the majority leader in the
Senate and in the House, and all of the
persons who have worked untiringly—
this is a unique coalition, and, Mr.
President, we are going to stay in business
to help with the implementation of this
thing.
And also, I would like to say that this
bill is a tribute, or this law now, this act,
is a tribute to the dedication of Senator
Humphrey and Gus Hawkins and both
Senators, but it's also a tribute to Martin
Luther King, Jr., because in 1968, he
started a crusade calling for a job and
income for all people who needed a job.
He did not live to carry out that cam-
paign, and so in 1974, we felt that we had
an obligation, a mandate, to pick it up
and to carry it forward. And now today,
I am sure Martin Luther King, Jr., is with
us in spirit, because his concern was that
all people in our society would be able to
share equally in the fruits of this great
Nation.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. All the members of my
Cabinet, of course, will join in the carry-
ing out of the mandates of this bill, but
I'd like to call on Ray Marshall, Secretary
of Labor, to represent the Cabinet and
to say just a closing word.
SECRETARY MARSHALL. Mr. Presi-
dent, this act represents a real victory, I
think, for the American people. It would
be very difficult to think of a problem that
this country has that would not be mate-
rially improved by full employment. And
I think that either in material terms, in
terms of the lost output that the country
suffers as a result of unemployment, or
in terms of the human suffering that goes
with unemployment, no other problem
could parallel it. We've done a lot of
talking about full employment for the
last 30 years, and now we have committed
ourselves to achieving it.
So, I think it's a great day. I think
that I heard that this was the largest
signing of any bill that we had had in the
White House, and I think that indicates
the feeling that people have. But it also
indicates the number of people who were
involved in making this program success-
ful. I'm proud to have had a part in it
and to be Secretary of Labor at the time
that it gets signed.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank all of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:03 p.m. at
the ceremony in the East Room at the White
House.
As enacted, H.R. 50, the Full Employment
and Balanced Growth Act of 1978, is Public
Law 95-523, and S. 2570, the Comprehensive
Employment and Training Act Amendments
of 1978, is Public Law 95-524, both approved
October 27.
Public Rangelands Improvement
Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 10587 Into Law.
October 27, 1978
I have signed into law H.R. 10587, the
Public Rangelands Improvement Act of
1978.
This act builds on previous legislation,
most recently the comprehensive Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of
1976, to improve the management of the
public rangelands. It clarifies several legal
authorities, thereby helping resolve some
of the conflicting demands that have ham-
pered effective management of these
lands. It should also increase cooperation
between the Federal Government and
those who use the public rangelands.
1875
