July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Western solidarity is a prime require-
ment for the realization of United States
interests. We recognize this intimate tie
with both Europe, Canada, and Japan-
not only economically, which is what we
have been discussing, but also politically
and militarily. And my assessment is that
these interrelationships have improved. I
don't think there's any doubt that now,
compared to just a few years ago, NATO
is stronger. I think the European Com-
munity is stronger. I think our relation-
ship with both Japan and Europe simul-
taneously is much stronger. I think that
the summit conferences that have been
held already the three summit confer-
ences—have contributed to this progress.
But I never consider the interest of the
United States as being separable from the
common interest or well-being of the
Alliance.
MR. TELMON. Mr. President, criticism
is sometimes voiced on the handling of
foreign policy by your administration, es-
pecially as far as the Soviet Union is con-
cerned-up and down, human rights, up
and down also in defense spending. How
can you define your stand on this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I tried to ex-
press in a brief 20- or 25-minute speech
at the graduation exercise in Annapolis
early this year this very complicated in-
terrelationship with the Soviet Union.
We are deeply comitted to détente, both
we and, I believe, the Soviet Union lead-
ers. But we think that détente has got to
be both broad-based and also reciprocal.
We look upon our negotiations with the
Soviet Union on the reduction of nuclear
weapons as being a critical matter to our-
selves and to them and to the world as
far as peace is concerned.
And we have never let anything inter-
rupt our effort, which is constant, almost
daily, to bring about a successful conclu-
sion of the SALT negotiations. These are
going on at this moment between Secre-
tary Vance and Foreign Minister Gro-
myko, for instance, in Geneva. We are
working on the comprehensive test ban.
We are trying to prevent the buildup of
military forces in the Indian Ocean. We
are trying to prevent the development of
antisatellite capability on both sides. We
are trying also to bring about a successful
conclusion of the long dormant mutual
and balanced force reduction talks in
Vienna.
So, when matters concern mutual secu-
rity plus matters of common benefit, like
increased trade, we cooperate with the
Soviets in an enthusiastic and determined
fashion.
There are also differences between us
and the Soviet Union. We have different
forms of government. And I think now
and definitely in the future we are going
to be competitive with the Soviet Union.
We believe in encouraging peace, non-
intrusion in the affairs of other govern-
ments, an adherence to common agree-
ments on the protection of basic human
rights, complete freedom of determina-
tion of all nations of their own govern-
ment, democratic principles. These things
are opposed by the Soviet Union. They
have a different philosophy of life. We
have to recognize these differences.
We don't fear the competition. We are
determined to meet the competition
openly and appropriately, honestly and
enthusiastically again. So, there's a com-
bination there of cooperation, whenever
possible, and we hope to expand the areas
within which we can cooperate and to
meet the competition of the Soviet Union
when it's inevitable.
Overriding this is the requirement that
we maintain security-of our own Na-
tion, the security of our allies in Europe
and in Japan. And we would consider
any threat against Western Europe or
Japan to be the same as a threat against
our own territory.
1256
