Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
whether the planes are outfitted to do it,
designed to do it, crews are trained to
do it, is an entirely different matter, and
we don't have any indication that this is
the case. But we are continuing to moni-
tor that circumstance and act accord-
ingly.
Q. Is there some sort of numerical mix
or some sort of formula that we have
worked out in our minds beyond which
we would consider it a violation of the
'62 agreement and under which we
wouldn't consider it? In other words, if
they just had half a squadron or only a
couple of planes, well, you know, it's per-
haps trouble, but it's not something
we're going to call them on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there would
certainly be a numerical mix that I can't
describe and don't have in my mind now
that we would consider in violation of
the 1962 agreement. And the 1962 agree-
ment was certainly very unclear on this.
The technology and the capability of air-
planes, almost all the extant airplanes
then, have been modified or replaced, and
there would be a mix of quality and quan-
tity. Even if I knew, I wouldn't broadcast
it publicly. There might be at that time
of crisis, which does not presently exist,
a difference between ourselves and the
Soviet Union, but I don't think I could
define it any more clearly.
The Soviets have assured us that they
still stand behind the 1962 agreement,
have not violated it, and I think my an-
swer at the press conference was carefully
worded. And I think it's adequate.
NICARAGUA AND SOUTHERN AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, I was going to ask
you about the MIG's also, but I'll switch
my question around to South Africa
and Nicaragua-[laughter]—both places
where the United States has had dead-
lines in concert with other countries to
try and bring about some sort of settle-
ment. In both places the deadlines have
come and gone, and in both places you are
working behind the scenes to try and
bring about some kind of peaceful settle-
ment.
Could you start with Nicaragua, and
tell us what progress you're making with
[President] Somoza?
THE PRESIDENT. We've got a little time.
Let me tell you something in generic
terms, general terms, that apply to all
these efforts.
We don't have to be involved in trying
to bring peace to Nicaragua, to Nigeria,
to Rhodesia, to Cyprus, to the Mideast,
but it's a voluntary responsibility assumed
by us. It's in the best interests of the Amer-
ican people. It's certainly in the best in-
terests of those people who are faced with
expanded conflict. It's in the best inter-
ests of world peace.
The prospects for resolution of all these
very difficult questions are sometimes
quite undetectable or remote. They're
certainly not a sure thing. We have been
persistent and, as a nation, sometimes
courageous in injecting ourselves into a
thankless responsibility to try to induce
reluctant adversaries to cooperate and to
maintain or to enhance
maintain or to enhance peace, sometimes
even to conclude a final agreement that
might be permanent in nature.
We're making some progress, I think,
in Nicaragua. When we entered the Nica-
raguan conflict, blood was being shed,
massive violence existed. We tried to in-
duce and were successful up until now in
getting other American nations to join in
with us, the Dominican Republic, and
Guatemala, to get Somoza for the first
time even to agree to an outside arbitra-
tion group to resolve the differences be-
tween himself and his political adversaries
in Nicaragua, to stop the violence, to re-
strain the shipment of arms into Nica-
ragua to both sides, and to provide peace
2177
