Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
labor leaders in general have held back
with more understandable reticence.
They need to be sure that I, as President,
and my administration, the Congress, and
the business leaders on price standards,
will be forthcoming and cooperative be-
fore labor can make a long-term 2-, 3-
year contractual commitment on the in-
come of their own members. I understand
this. We anticipated this. It's not a very
serious problem for us. And the first re-
sponsibility is on my shoulders.
Each one of you in this room is a
leader. Your voice is heard, your influ-
ence is felt, your actions are observed by
either dozens of other leaders or by hun-
dreds or perhaps even thousands of other
leaders.
As you understand from my own key
staff members, including Alfred Kahn,
what our purposes are, what the bounds
are of our activities, what our limitations
are, what our problems are, I hope that
you will leave here not just having ac-
quiesced in a dormant fashion in com-
plying with our requests and our stand-
ards, but leave here as one who is fer-
vently committed to making this pro-
gram succeed. Use the same degree of
enthusiasm, innovation, and leadership in
carrying our country toward a more sta-
ble and effective and prosperous future
as you do in your own particular respon-
sibilities in a business or profession or even
your own family life. It would be a serious
waste of your time to come here and only
be convinced to go home and keep that
conviction to yourself. But there is no one
here who doesn't have at least a hundred
or two hundred or a thousand people per-
haps that look to you for guidance and
for leadership and who at least share with
you the responsibilities of an exalted place
in the free enterprise system of our coun-
try.
And I hope that you will take the time
to compose a personal letter or to make
a list of those that you might call on
the phone or to take an opportunity to
speak to a civic group or professional
group on your own initiative and outline
the problems that I face as President with
limited legal and constitutional authority
and how a partnership must be formed
to make the anti-inflation fight successful.
I don't intend to fail in this effort. I
think in the past I have not been able to
address many of the problems adequately.
A year and a half ago, as I traveled
around the Nation, as pollsters conducted
opinion polls, the number one issue was
unemployment. Now there's an
whelming concern about inflation. One
of the reasons, obviously, is that we have
made great progress in eliminating un-
employment or reducing it. We've added
almost 7 million net new jobs. We've cut
the unemployment rate down now well
below 6 percent. I hope we can hold it
at that level.
But inflation is the burning issue in
the minds of the American people. It is
the burning political issue in the country.
And I don't have to convince a Congress,
all of whose Members have just experi-
enced an election process, that the Amer-
ican people are genuinely concerned
about management, efficiency, waste, cor-
ruption, inflation, deficits. The Congress
is convinced about that.
And I hope that I can avoid any vetoes
next year by assuring that as the Congress
considers the evolution of legislation, as
they consider the evolution of a budget
for 1980, they will be partners with me
in the fullest sense in holding down
inflation.
I might repeat one of the first com-
ments I made, in closing, and that is that
I never want to cheat those in our coun-
try who are most in need. The responsi-
bility for meeting their needs is an ever-
present burden on any President. And I
am convinced as well that the ones who
2052
