Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to remove the controls over the cost of
gasoline and the cost of natural gas and
things of that type, even though I come
from a State which produces a substantial
amount of that energy.
Nevertheless, I am concerned about
what it's going to do. Every man and
woman in the country today, with the
exception of a few who may have a bus
line that runs within several miles of their
home, must depend upon gasoline to go
to work and to come back home and to do
the things that's necessary for the liveli-
hood. They simply cannot, Mr. President,
pay a dollar a gallon for gasoline if their
wages are going to be limited to a 7-per-
cent increase, and from the 7 percent, we
deduct what we call the fringe benefits-
the cost of hospitalization, the cost of the
money that the Federal Government says
the employer must put in the retirement
system in order to make it actuarily sound,
and the many other things that the pro-
gram either does or does not cover, based
upon who's explaining it to me and what
it's supposed to mean in the final analysis.
I can't get a good explanation of what
the program is. But from what I've read
in the information I've been able to get
and I've diligently sought all of the infor-
mation that I can get, Mr. President-
the program will work to the detriment of
the poor working people of our country.
And I hope that you will take into con-
sideration our plea that drastic changes
be made in the program. We want to share
our responsibility. We want to cover that
responsibility, but we want everyone else
to do the same thing.
We don't want the big corpora-
tions-
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. Mr.
Bussie, I'm going to have to rush you a
little bit.
Q. I'm rushing fast as I can, Mr.
Chairman. [Laughter] We don't want the
big corporations of America to go scot
free, and that's what they're going to do, if
I understand the program. And I say that
sincerely, because they can shift profits
from one production line to another, and
they have many ways of getting by. Don't
let them by, Mr. President; make us all
do what we have to do in order to make
this program a success. That I beg of you,
as a man who was your supporter, a long-
time Democrat, a good American, I be-
lieve because I've never advocated any-
thing except the free enterprise system, a
representative of working men and
women and one who tries to speak
honestly and sincerely on their behalf.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL.
Thank you, Mr. Bussie.
I'd like to thank Mr. Bussie for his
statement. And then we're going to come
back over here. If you have a question, if
you could bring it to a conclusion very
quickly, again, I'd appreciate it.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Q. I'm a delegate from northern Cali-
fornia and also a staff member of the Cali-
fornia Campaign for Economic Democ-
racy, whose chair is Tom Hayden.
The reason I came up here--I think
most of my concerns have already been
stated-but I joined the Democratic Party
when I came back from Vietnam, because
I believed it was working for the working
people and the poor people of this coun-
try. And as I listened and watched this
panel criticize, one after another, wages
and government, and then I read the
white paper put out by the White House
on October 24th, which says excessive
wage increases were not the cause of the
current inflation, but wage moderation is
an essential part of the cure-well, I hope
the Democratic Party will forget about
going after the poor people and the work-
ing people and take on the corporate
greed in this country, especially in re-
2216
