Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Congress also gave the Secretary
of Labor, Ray Marshall, the authority
that we requested to investigate and to
deal effectively with some examples of
fraud and abuse which have in the past
occurred in the public jobs programs.
These few unscrupulous people who
would use these programs as political
plums or for personal gain deserve con-
demnation and punishment. They are a
threat to the opportunities of people who
have been unable fully to participate in
our economy. We intend to see that such
abuses are ended.
My administration is committed to at-
tacking the specter of youth unemploy-
ment, which threatens to sap the will and
waste the potential of a sizable portion of
an entire generation of Americans. Ex-
tending the youth employment and dem-
onstration projects act is critical to the
success of this effort.
Our targeted tax credit proposal, ap-
proved as part of the tax bill, would also
help millions of young people find em-
ployment in the private sector of our
economy. I'm particularly proud that
Congress approved this and the Private
Sector Initiative program. We will estab-
lish now private industry councils
throughout our Nation, letting labor, busi-
ness, community leaders, government
leaders at all levels form a full partnership
to make our CETA program more effec-
tive even than it has been in the past.
Hubert Humphrey said, and I'd like to
quote him, "A Humphrey-Hawkins bill is
a first step, but an indispensable one, to-
ward an era of full employment, steady
economic growth, and reasonable price
stability. It is no panacea. It is no miracle
cure, but with it, national economic policy
will be required to be directed toward
achieving specific, measurable economic
goals."
Although attaining the unemployment
and the inflation goals of this bill will be
very difficult, we will do our best to reach
them. The CETA legislation, with its at-
tack on structural unemployment, is a key
to that effort. But I must warn you that
our fight against inflation must succeed
if we are to maintain the steady economic
growth necessary to avoid an increase in
unemployment and to achieve the goals
in the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
Success in fighting inflation is critical to
success in fighting unemployment. In the
future, we can see from this bill that all
Americans, not any particular kind of
American, will be benefited. There will be
required 2-year programs and 5-year pro-
grams expressing from the point of view of
myself, my entire administration, the Con-
gress, the Federal Reserve, and the pri-
vate sector, specific goals to achieve in
employment, inflation, unemployment,
production, real income of Americans,
productivity, how much each American
worker can produce, price levels, balanced
growth, a downward trend in the Fed-
eral share of the GNP spent, improving
our trade balance, and working toward a
balanced budget.
Those are the requirements in this bill,
the elements that any President would
want to assess and in which a President
and the Congress needs the utmost coop-
eration from every other element of
American society.
The Federal Reserve Board will have
to make now semiannual written reports
to the Congress specifying its own contri-
bution-for controlling inflation, yes, but
to meeting the other goals as well.
I'm very grateful that those assembled
behind me on this stage and in front of me
in this audience have been so successful
in bringing to a conclusion this long strug-
gle to provide for our Nation an inspira-
tion, a motivation, and a mechanism by
1872
