Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
He can work with Hank and John and
Pat to make sure that your voice is heard
clearly and strongly in Washington.
One of the things that had been
dragging out for years and years was so-
cial security claims. And since Hugh
Carey has been Governor, New York has
now been awarded from the Federal Gov-
ernment in back claims $214 million.
That's money that was going to come out
of your pockets; now it's paid back to you
because you deserve it.
Hugh's very generous, too. One of the
things that causes him political problems
is he's not the kind of politician who runs
forward and says, "I did this; I did
that; I claim credit for the good works
that you have seen." He was very gen-
erous in giving me and Midge Costanza
and my son Chip credit for moving
rapidly to deal with the serious problem
of the blizzard in Buffalo. But Hugh Carey
was a man who called me on the phone
immediately and said, "Mr. President, we
need some help." And because I knew
him and trusted him, and I knew his good
relationship with your congressional dele-
gation, with your mayor, your Erie
County chairman, I was sure that he spoke
for the people. And so I sent Chip up
here, and we dealt with the blizzard
problem.
Love Canal was a problem I didn't
understand. I was not here living with the
contamination problem. But Hugh Carey,
with his sensitivity, jumped on it right
away. And I have to tell you that he's
done a lot more at the State level than I
and my people have done at the Federal
level. And I want to express my thanks
to him for dealing with your problem.
If
you can get wet, so can I.¹ [Laughter]
I just want to mention a couple of other
things, because I want to be brief. I don't
¹It had begun to rain, and the President
declined the use of an umbrella.
want you to get wet any more than you
have to.
We are now trying to deal with infla-
tion. It's my biggest single domestic prob-
lem. One of the things that I want to be
sure the Congress does next year is to pass
a hospital cost containment bill, because
hospital costs have been going up in this
country. Hospital costs have been going
up twice as fast as the inflation rate. But
Hugh Carey, with his dynamic leadership,
has passed the best hospital cost contain-
ment bill in the Nation, and I hope to get
just half as good a bill through the Con-
gress next year as Hugh Carey has already
gotten for you here in New York State.
The taxpayers of New York State are
enjoying the lowest Medicaid cost of all
50 States-the lowest of all 50 States.
That's quite an achievement. Hugh, I
have admiration and thanks for what
you've achieved.
Let me say that he needs your help.
He's got a tough, hard race, as was the
case with myself when I started running
for President. He started out as an under-
dog, because he was dealing with thank-
less problems. And as I said before, he's
the kind of person—you noticed in his in-
troduction to me, did not claim credit for
anything. But he's got a tough race on his
hands. And I hope you'll recognize that
he's a sound leader knowing local, State,
and Federal Government; that can work
with Hank, that can work with John, that
can work with Pat, that can work with
me, and give you a better life in a great
State in the years ahead. Help him on
November 7. He and I together will help
you the next few years. I won't say how
many. [Laughter]
Recently, the world was thrilled by the
selection of a great new Polish Pope.
Maybe you heard about it here in Buffalo.
[Laughter] I had very limited authority
to appoint a delegation to go to Rome.
You can imagine how many thousands of
1884
