Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 29
attention in important policy discussion.
I believe that this is unacceptable in a
nation where all levels of government
spend ever-increasing amounts of money
for education while getting less results in
the actual performance of our students.
Creation of a department of education,
which I set as a priority in this year's State
of the Union address, is one important
step we can take to improve education in
America. It will bring to the Cabinet the
leadership needed to direct broad atten-
tion to education matters. It will establish
Cabinet-level accountability for Federal
education programs, exposing them to far
greater scrutiny by the President, the Con-
gress, and the public.
Decisions on the running of local school
systems need to be made at the community
level, as close as possible to the control of
the parents themselves. A department of
education will enable the Federal Govern-
ment to do a better job of helping States
and local communities carry out their edu-
cational responsibilities.
I want to thank Majority Leader Byrd
and Chairman Ribicoff for their leader-
ship in gaining Senate passage of the de-
partment of education bill. I urge the
House of Representatives to act promptly
on this measure.
NOTE: The statement was released on Septem-
ber 29.
Death of Pope John Paul I
Statement by the President.
September 29, 1978
It was with deep sadness that I learned
of the sudden death of Pope John Paul I.
In the brief weeks of his reign, Pope John
Paul captured the imagination of his
Church and of the world. He held out the
promise of combining his predecessors'
finest qualities, reaffirming what is endur-
ing and strong in the Catholic tradition,
while expanding the frontiers of the
Church to cope with the needs of the
modern world. The warmth of his per-
sonality and his understanding of the
lives of ordinary people were evident to
all. We are all made poorer by his death.
Office of Management
and Budget
Nomination of John Patrick White To Be
Deputy Director. September 29, 1978
President Carter today announced that
he will nominate John Patrick White to
be Deputy Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. White, since May
1977, has been Assistant Secretary of De-
fense for Manpower, Reserve Affairs and
Logistics.
White was born in Syracuse, N.Y., on
February 27, 1938. He received his un-
dergraduate degree in industrial and la-
bor relations from Cornell University in
1959, his masters degree in economics
and public administration from Syracuse
University in 1964, and his doctorate in
economics from Syracuse in 1969.
From 1969 to 1977, White was with the
the Rand Corp., Santa Monica, Calif.
He was a member of Rand's board of
trustees and served as senior vice presi-
dent from 1975 to 1977.
From 1964 to 1968, White was on the
faculty of Le Moyne College in Syra-
cuse, N.Y. He served with the Marine
Corps from 1959 to 1961.
White is married to the former Eliza-
beth Lucille Michaud. They live in Mc-
Lean, Va., and have four children.
1665
