Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
America. Admiralty Island was added to
the Tongass National Forest in 1909, and
specific portions of the island have been
designated as bear and eagle manage-
ment areas and
and numerous scientific
studies of the bear and eagle habitat have
been conducted by scientists from around
the world. The island is an outdoor living
laboratory for the study of the bald eagle
and Alaska brown bear.
Protection of the entire island, exclu-
sive of the Mansfield Peninsula, is neces-
sary to preserve intact the unique scien-
tific and historic objects and sites located
there. Designation of a smaller area
would not serve the scientific purpose of
preserving intact this unique coastal is-
land ecosystem.
Hunting and fishing shall continue to
be regulated, permitted and controlled in
accord with the statutory authorities ap-
plicable to the Monument area.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), author-
izes the President, in his discretion, to de-
clare by public proclamation historic
landmarks, historic and prehistoric struc-
tures, and other objects of historic or sci-
entific interest that are situated upon the
lands owned or controlled by the govern-
ment of the United States to be National
Monuments, and to reserve as part there-
of parcels of land, the limits of which in
all cases shall be confined to the smallest
area compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects to be pro-
tected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by sec-
tion 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved as
the Admiralty Island National Monu-
ment all lands, including submerged
lands, and waters owned or controlled by
the United States within the boundaries
of the area described on the document en-
titled "Admiralty Island National Monu-
ment (Copper River Meridian)”, at-
tached to and forming a part of this
Proclamation. The area reserved consists
of approximately 1,100,000 acres, and is
the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
Monument upon acquisition of title
thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this Monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this Monument
and for the proper administration of the
Monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this Monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.),
and under or confirmed in the Alaska
Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding
Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under section 17
(d)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the National Monument shall
be the dominant reservation. Nothing in
this Proclamation is intended to modify
or revoke the terms of the Memorandum
of Understanding dated September 1,
1972, entered into between the State of
Alaska and the United States as part of
2113
