July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
enormous increase in costs that have bur-
dened down the American people. The
average increase in cost of health care per
year has been more than twice as much
as the overall inflation rate. I can't think
of anything the Congress could do that
would benefit consumers more than to
pass the hospital cost containment bill
that we proposed and which the Com-
merce Committee in the House voted
down or gutted with an unsatisfactory
amendment this week.
This will cost the American consumers
over the next 5 years $56 billion in unnec-
essary health care costs and will cost the
American taxpayer, through Federal ex-
penditures, $19 billion. This is an extraor-
dinary and unnecessary burden on the
American people, but the Commerce
Committee was not able to deal with it.
the
So, we've got to control costs even un-
der the present system, and this year
American people will know the princi-
ples and the framework for a comprehen-
sive health care system that cannot be
acted upon this year but, I believe, the
Congress will consider next year.
DR. BOURNE
Q. Mr. President, I hope that this
doesn't fall within the area of legal issues
that you prefer not to discuss tonight, but
the health of the President himself has al-
ways been a matter of great concern to
the country.
Can you say whether any of the pre-
scriptions that were signed by Dr. Bourne
were substances that went either to you or
members of your family?
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Bourne has never
given me any treatment of any kind.
Q. None of those substances went to
you?
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE STRIKES
Q. Mr. President, the city of Washing-
ton is vexed right now by a subway strike.
We're facing a possible mail strike. Phil-
adelphia has had a sanitation strike,
Louisville, a police strike. There have
been fires accompanying a firemen's
strike in Memphis. How long do you
think the people are going to stand for
this, and what are your thoughts about
strikes by public employees?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I deplore the
circumstances that finally result in a
strike. We obviously prefer that through
regular legal bargaining procedures that
disputes can be settled without disrup-
tive strikes. This evening, for instance,
we are waiting with great interest the
outcome of the postal workers' negotia-
tions, and we hope that they will be re-
solved successfully before midnight, which
is the deadline. If they are not, then legal
procedures provide a mechanism by
which some extension can be granted.
But I deplore strikes, but recognize the
right of workers to conduct labor nego-
tiations; if they aren't successful, some-
times strikes are advisable. But I prefer, of
course, to see the disputes settled without
strikes.
ARMS EMBARGO AGAINST TURKEY
Q. Mr. President, during your summit
in Bonn, did the Western leaders bring up
the subject of the Turkish embargo? And
if so,
what was your reaction? Could you
tell us, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Every member of
NATO, including five of the members
who were there with me-the only excep-
tion is Japan, who's not a member of
NATO-are deeply interested in remov-
ing the embargo against Turkey. This em-
bargo was imposed, I think properly, 3
years ago. The results that were expected
have not been realized. It has not resulted
1326
