Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
with an anti-inflation program, meet the
necessary demands of
demands of many interest
groups in our Nation who are quite
benevolent. So, to bring some tightly
drawn, simplistic cohesion into this broad-
ly diverse responsibility is almost impos-
sible.
I think in some cases previous Presi-
dents have had their thrust identified with
a simple slogan only in retrospect. I know
that Roosevelt's New Deal was identified
well into his term, and when he used the
expression in a speech, he had no idea
that it would categorize what he'd
brought to the country. So, I think that
only when an administration is looked
at in maybe at least a recently historical
perspective can you get a central theme.
We are trying to restore trust in govern-
ment. We're trying to have enhancement
of world peace, focusing on human rights,
and at the same time exemplify what I
tried to express in the campaign, and since
I've been in office, as well, that my party
and what I stand for is a proper blending
of both compassion and competence.
In the past we've not been able to
bridge that gap adequately. I think we've
made a step in the right direction, but
how to bring one or two phrases or a
slick, little slogan to identify an admin-
istration in its formative stage or even in
its productive stage is almost impossible.
MR. MOYERS. If I could put it another
way, T. S. Eliot once said that every
large, new figure in literature changes our
perception of literature. I think the same
is probably true of the Presidency. It rep-
resents something of what the country is
all about. You're the most recent repre-
sentative of that tradition, and I'm won-
dering if, 2 years into your administra-
tion, you know what it is you'd like to
leave.
The President. I don't think my goals
have changed much since I began think-
ing about running for President, even 4
years before I was elected, and in the last
2 years.
There's no doubt that our Nation had
been damaged very severely by the Viet-
nam war and by the Watergate scandals
and by the CIA revelations. And I think
our people were also beginning to suspect
that many key public officials were dis-
honest, not exactly forthcoming in telling
the truth, and that there was no respect
for our own country among the vast ma-
jority of nations in the rest of the world.
There was some doubt about our own
allies and friends that we espoused who
were personifications of human rights vio-
lations.
And I think in all those respects-how
people look upon our government, either
from the point of view of an American
citizen and also foreign leaders and citi-
zens-that we've made good progress to-
ward reaching the goal of restoring that
accurate image of a good nation with in-
tegrity and purpose, openness, and also
with a President who speaks accurately
for the people themselves.
One problem has been that in the
openness that I've tried to create, there
comes with debate on complicated issues
an absence of clarity. The simplest deci-
sions that I have to make, as I told the
FFA convention in Kansas City last week,
are the ones about which I know least,
that the more you know about the sub-
ject, all the complexities on both sides,
the detailed, intricate arguments, the
more difficult it is to make a decision. If
you don't know much about a subject,
you can make a very quick and easy
decision.
But I think that we have made good
progress in correcting some of the defects
that existed in our Government, and I
feel that history will look with favor now.
MR. MOYERS. As you talk, it occurs to
me that not since 1960 has a President
finished two terms in the White House.
2015
