Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
own mind, have you decided yet whether
or not you'll seek a second term?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. [Laughter]
Q. You know my followup question.
[Laughter] When will you share it with
us and the American people?
THE PRESIDENT. Later. [Laughter]
Q. Later means—
THE PRESIDENT. It means later.
CONSUMER BOYCOTTS; FEDERAL REVENUE
SHARING
Q. Mr. President, your anti-inflation
fighter, Mr. Kahn, yesterday suggested
that one way to fight inflation would be
to have organized consumer boycotts
against firms which violate your wage-
price guidelines. And another suggestion
he made was that the Government might
consider reducing or withholding Federal
revenue sharing money to cities or States
where officials in those cities and States
violate the wage guidelines.
I was wondering, first of all, would
you
support a reduction of Federal revenue
sharing money to a city or State which
didn't observe or which violated your
wage-price guidelines? And how do you
feel generally about the Government
backing consumer boycotts?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't personally
favor any organized boycotts. I think that
the posture of a prudent purchaser is one
that applies to me as President and also
ought to apply to the average consumer
who is buying retail items and who should
be conversant with the relative compli-
ance of suppliers with our wage and price
guidelines the price guidelines in this
instance.
As far as withholding revenue sharing
funds, I think this would be illegal under
the present law. We have had very good
response from Governors and mayors in
applying the same policies of a prudent
purchaser so that the mayor, for instance,
would be restrained against buying items
from companies which patently violate
the price guidelines. And we are en-
couraging mayors to take this action, and
Governors as well.
I might say that we encourage them
with very good results, very good suc-
cesses. But as far as withholding revenue
sharing funds, this would require an act
of Congress, and it's not possible under
the present law.
Q. Could you reduce Federal revenue
sharing funds to a State which didn't
comply?
The PRESIDENT. No, we could not do
that under the present law.
TRADE WITH COMMUNIST COUNTRIES
Q. Mr. President, we seem to be headed
for a record trade deficit this year, at a
time when a major new market for U.S.
exports is opening in Communist China.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Now, there are a number of restric-
tions in U.S. trade laws which inhibit our
trading with Communist countries, some
aspects of the Export-Import Bank Act,
the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the
1974 Trade Act.
My question is, do you intend to try to
change and remove some of those restric-
tions next year?
THE PRESIDENT. We are constantly
assessing the advisability of maintaining
administrative restraints.
Of course, we have to put trade in a
proper perspective. We can't assess trade
itself completely separated from our over-
all relationships with Communist coun-
tries, particularly those who are potential
adversaries of ours, like the Soviet Union.
We want to have increased trade with
the Soviet Union and with the People's
Republic of China. I think the statistics
will show that recently we have had in-
2224
