Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
charged and for those who are disabled,
but remove the abuse that exsists.
REPRESENTATIVE FISHER. I might add
that IMAGE the organization this young
man represents, is really a wonderful or-
ganization. I've come to know it. I'd add
only this: that I think there ought to be
up and down and cross-wise in the agen-
cies a much more determined effort to
hire Hispanic Americans and other mi-
nority groups. It's just got to seep all
through the system.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that the
panel didn't leave a vacancy, because you
filled it very well.
Thank you very much, Mr. Sandate.
PROSPECTS FOR EMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, my name is John
Worley. I'm presently working on a busi-
ness degree now and with hopes of work-
ing for the Federal Government, 1981.
[Laughter] What I would like to know, if
this act is passed, what will the job market
be like for me and others my age?
THE PRESIDENT. Overall, the job mar-
ket is much better now than it was 18
months ago. The unemployment rate has
dropped greatly, and we have added a
net of about 62 million jobs in the entire
Nation. Some of those are government
jobs created specifically for groups that
need special help through the local public
works and CETA programs and other
jobs that were designed to be filled spe-
cifically by congressional legislation.
I would say that if you are competent
when you finish your college education
that you would have a much better
chance to get a job on your own merits,
absent politics, in a free, competitive en-
vironment than you would otherwise.
My belief is that the total employment
in the Federal Government is not likely
to increase, but that means that each
employee in the Federal Government is
going to have to do a better and better
job.
Productivity in the general economic
sector of our Nation is not increasing very
rapidly. It's increasing very, very slowly.
But productivity-that is, the work done
per employee is holding its own in the
Federal Government and increasing very
well.
But I wish you well. We need top
business graduates in the Federal Gov-
ernment, and I think that it's a credit
to you that you want to serve with us.
Let me say in closing that we don't
have time for another question. I'm very
grateful to maybe for the question, but
not the answer. But go ahead. [Laughter]
I didn't know you were already standing
there.
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
Q. Yes, sir. I'm a Government em-
ployee for the Federal Reserve System, an
independent agency within the Gov-
ernment.
I wonder if you could state briefly
what the effect of the legislation would
be on those of us who are not covered by
civil service.
MR. CAMPBELL. Just very briefly, there
are some of the agencies excepted, such
as the intelligence agencies, some of the
other independent agencies, but as far as
the Senior Executive Service is con-
cerned, it is possible for independent agen-
cies to be covered. And we hope that or-
ganizations like the Federal Reserve
Board will want to be a part of that so
that we can have fresh blood flowing
between agencies in the Federal Govern-
ment from organizations like yours as well
as the regular departments.
THE PRESIDENT. Again, it would be
voluntary on your part. You wouldn't
have to participate if you didn't want to.
Let me say in closing that this has been
a very interesting session for me and, I
1374
