Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
There are a lot of other people I could
mention. I spoke to this group last year,
and there was a lonely sign down in front
that said, "Thank you, Mr. President, for
endorsing D.C. voting rights." But I don't
believe anybody felt at that time that a
year later the Congress would have passed
overwhelmingly, both bodies, a constitu-
tional amendment to give those rights.
And I'd like to recognize and thank
Walter Fauntroy for his tremendous
leadership, Clarence Mitchell, our 101st
Senator, and three members of the Black
Caucus who will, unfortunately, be retir-
ing this year: Barbara Jordan, who elec-
trified our country, who inspired the world
with her great address at the Democratic
National Convention, when I was nomi-
nated; Congressman Bob Nix, who was
the leader, who's getting the civil service
reform bill through the Congress this
year-one of the great achievements of all
times; and Yvonne Burke, who's going to
be the next attorney general of Cali-
fornia.
Well, let me close by saying that some
people criticize you and me, and it's an
honor when they do. [Laughter] Some
people say we are too impatient. Do you
think we're too impatient?
AUDIENCE. No.
THE PRESIDENT. Some people say we
are too ambitious for those that we care
about. But I don't believe we're too ambi-
tious. Some people say—and you've heard
it many times-"They are never satisfied."
[Laughter] But can we afford to be satis-
fied when we've got hundreds of thou-
sands of young black men walking the
streets looking for a job?
AUDIENCE. No.
THE PRESIDENT. Can we afford to be
satisfied when our cities are crumbling
and particularly those areas where poor
people live and are at the mercy of land-
lords who don't care about them, often,
and who need our help?
AUDIENCE. No.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. Can we afford
to be satisfied when we have literally mil-
lions of young people still struggling for
an adequate education because they can't
speak English well or because their par-
ents never had a chance to learn?
AUDIENCE. No.
THE PRESIDENT. No, we can't.
Can we afford to be satisfied when
we're still spending more on nuclear weap-
ons than we are on peace?
AUDIENCE. No.
THE PRESIDENT. Can we afford to be
satisfied when we realize that for many
people, even in our own country, equality
is still just a dream?
No, we cannot afford to be satisfied.
I'm proud that you and I are able to
walk together. I'm proud of the partner-
ship that binds us, one to another. I'm
proud of a recognition of unrecognized
and unfulfilled dreams. I'm proud to
share with you experience of the past
when progress has been made. I'm proud
to know people in this audience who have
exhibited, even in a position of promi-
nence, a great sensitivity and love for
those who yearn for a better life.
There's a person here who helped to
begin this movement, and I don't even
need to call her name. She's a woman
who refused to sit in the back of a bus.
And her name is Rosa Parks. She's here.
Where is she?
Rosa Parks, would you come up here?
In the midst of that historic event that
began the Montgomery bus boycott, Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., came up to an old
woman, and he was concerned about her
strenuous effort to correct the deprivation
of human rights. And he said, “Honey,
aren't you
tired and worn out?" She said,
"My feet are tired, but my soul is rested."
1683
