Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 4
earlier depressed levels. Farm exports are
higher than ever before. Farm income is
expected to rise by at least $5 billion, or
25 percent, this year.
The act I am signing today will give
many farmers an opportunity to refinance
the debts they incurred during the past pe-
riod of low prices; for some this will
mean the difference between staying in
farming and being driven out.
The Agricultural Credit Act of 1978
represents the most comprehensive and
far-reaching farm and rural credit bill
since the enactment of the Bankhead-
Jones Act some 40 years ago. The revolu-
tionary changes that have transformed
agriculture during those four decades de-
mand a new credit structure for farmers
and rural people. Today's farmer must
make large investments in land and ma-
chinery and operating credit. In addi-
tion, farming is a high-risk operation—a
constant gamble against weather and
natural disaster.
This act fulfills the modern farmer's
need.
The Agricultural Credit Act of 1978
will:
-bring major credit programs of the
Farmers Home Administration—
farm ownership, farm operating and
emergency loans—into line with the
basic credit needs of modern agri-
culture. It does this by raising the
total availability of needed credit; by
increasing the loan ceilings; and by
setting interest rates that reflect the
cost of money;
-provide $4 billion in economic emer-
gency loan authority to assist 60,000
or more farmers hard-pressed today
because of past low prices and over-
burdening debt accumulated during
recent periods of rising production
costs. Recognizing that credit is no
substitute for income, the new act
does allow eligible farmers to con-
solidate and refinance their debts
while provisions of the 1977 farm act
continue to help raise prices and
incomes;
-create a special low-interest FmHA
farm mortgage loan program for be-
ginning and low-income farm fami-
lies;
extend a special cattle industry credit
program for 1 year through Septem-
ber 30, 1979;
-authorize additional expenditures
for small communities for water and
sewer development;
-provide, for the first time, an effec-
tive, guaranteed farm lending pro-
gram which will rely on private
sector financing;
-recognize that family farm corpora-
tions, farm cooperatives, and lim-
ited family partnerships are essen-
tial to the farm economy and makes
them eligible for FmHA credit pro-
grams for the first time.
I am particularly proud of the spirit
of cooperation between the Congress and
the administration in the evolution of
this bill, which made a major contribu-
tion to the success of this legislation.
I hope that this momentum can be con-
tinued and that the Congress will soon
act on three other important agricultural
proposals:
-ratification of the International Sug-
ar Agreement;
-the International Emergency Wheat
Reserve; and
-reform of the crop insurance/disas-
ter payments program.
With enactment of these measures, we
will have completed work on the most
comprehensive, most forward-looking set
of farm programs since the New Deal.
We are very close to the realization of this
goal. For its part, the administration will
1377
