Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
the Exposition warrants Federal recogni-
tion as provided by statute. On April 27,
1977, upon request of the United States,
the Bureau of International Expositions
officially registered the event as a Special
Category exposition by unanimous vote.
Also, in accordance with law, I shall
appoint a United States Commissioner
General to exercise the responsibility of
the United States Government for ful-
fillment of the Convention of November
22, 1928, Relating to International Expo-
sitions, as modified, and to invite the sev-
eral States of the Union to participate.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, in further recognition of this Inter-
national Energy Exposition, do hereby
authorize and direct the Secretary of
State to invite, on my behalf, such for-
eign countries as he may consider appro-
priate to participate in this event.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of De-
cember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
9:58 a.m., December 8, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on December 7.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Breakfast With Members of the White
House Correspondents Association.
December 7, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that I'm very glad that you could come
and meet with me this morning. I think
we've probably delayed this kind of
breakfast excessively, and if it works out
well, I'd like to do it on not a schedule,
but a basis as determined by you and
Jody.
PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO GUADELOUPE
I will be going to Guadeloupe on the
5th and 6th of December [January], tak-
ing only one staff person, meeting with
the President of France, the Chancellor
of Germany, and the Prime Minister of
Great Britain. We'll be there for 2 days,
we presently plan. And I think all four of
us will be taking our wives. It'll be some-
what of a social affair, but we'll be dis-
cussing substantive issues.
I don't think there'll be any press con-
ferences during that time. I think we'll
just meet privately and discuss the
broadest gamut of questions that affect
us all.
This is a group that has met periodi-
cally, even before I became President,
during the economic and other summit
conferences, because we are directly re-
lated in the administration of Berlin and
we have found the private meetings to
be very helpful. And at the last meeting,
when we were at Bonn, we all decided
to explore this possibility, sometime dur-
ing the late winter, to meet.
So, we will be going there on the 5th
and 6th of December.
Q. Of January?
THE PRESIDENT. The 5th and 6th of
January, I'm sorry.
Q. Will there be press briefings, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. I
think that they will be minimal, if any,
John [John Osborne, The New Repub-
lic]. We'll only be there 2 days. I think
we'd like just to go and have a chance
to meet in an unstructured way. There
will not be any agenda prepared ahead
of time, and we'll take one staff person.
We have got a lot going on in Washing-
2171
