Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
ice-and that's almost all of them-and
urged other nations to join in with us. And
a substantial portion of them-I couldn't
tell you the exact percentage today-have
also combined with us in means by which
terrorism could be constrained. I hope
that downward trend, accelerated by the
airline hijacking concurrence among the
world's leaders, will continue. But if it
should turn around, we will obviously just
do the best we can to restrain it.
I think many people in the Mideast,
even in other confrontation states, don't
feel as deeply against the major move
toward peace as some of the leaders
indicate.
Most people were amazed a year ago,
or less than a year ago, at the overwhelm-
ing roadside response of Israelis toward
President Sadat and of the Egyptians
toward the Prime Minister of Israel, Be-
gin, and his negotiating team. They
thought there would be some animosity.
But there was an overwhelming sense of
appreciation that "you've finally brought
peace to us."
I think some of the other nations would
find this to be true, when and if their lead-
ers show the same courage that has been
exhibited by Begin and Sadat. I think the
people out there want peace.
So, I think the threat of terrorism is
probably exaggerated. But if it should
occur, attempts, I think we are prepared
to meet it.
RELATIONS WITH THE FARM PRESS
Q. Mr. President, do you feel that you
and your administration have been
treated fairly by the farm broadcasters
and telecasters and the farm press?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so; yes, sir.
In general, I think the press has been
very fair to us. The only thing that has
concerned me about the press has been
that all the time we were trying to work
on very broad-ranging problems, that we
were criticized because we didn't have
instant success. And a lot of people took
the campaign promises that I made over
a 2-year period and, at the end of my first
year, said, "Carter has not kept his cam-
paign promises, because he hasn't done all
these things he promised."
This includes an energy policy. Nobody
had had the temerity or foolhardiness as
President before to try to bring about that
accomplishment. Civil service reform in
a hundred years, nobody had tackled it;
government reorganization, these sorts of
things. With that one exception, which is
predictable and understandable, I think
the press has been very fair.
And now that I have had some suc-
cess-I'd say notably the Camp David
meetings and, I think recently, accom-
plishments in the Congress-there's prob-
ably been too much credit. So, I think if
you balanced it out over a 20-month pe-
riod, 18-month period-[laughter]-the
excessive criticism for a while and now the
excessive credit would pretty well balance
out. [Laughter]
FARM INCOME
Q. Larry Steckline from Kansas. The
figures we get indicate quite a difference
between farm and nonfarm income. Are
you happy today with farm income?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think we still see
that farm income is—I started to say the
lowest-among the lowest in the Nation
per capita, and also certainly the lowest
in the Nation per person, compared to the
tremendous capital investment required,
even in a fairly prosperous State like Wis-
consin.
I remember when I was running for
President and campaigned in Wisconsin,
I got some figures on the dairy industry
from the University of Wisconsin and
1677
