Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
that the majority leader speaks accurately
for the Congress.
Ms. WALTERS. What now, Mr. Presi-
dent? Do you plan perhaps to call or have
you already telephoned either Prime Min-
ister Begin or President Sadat? Tomor-
row there's a Cabinet meeting. What's
going to happen maybe to get something
either by this Sunday or soon after?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's hard for me
to answer that question. I've not received
any report from Secretary Vance, except
very brief dispatch messages. And he will
be back in the United States tomorrow
afternoon. Of course, as soon as he re-
turns, he'll come and give me a thorough
report. But we've done all we could and
will continue to do all we can in spite of
setbacks and disappointments and frus-
trations and delays.
We are very deeply committed to car-
rying out both the letter and the spirit of
Camp David. It was a major step for-
ward. We will never give up, no matter
how difficult the circumstances, on search-
ing for a peace treaty between Israel and
Egypt, to be followed by peace between
Israel and all her neighbors.
IRAN
MS. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, I hate for
us to have to jump from one part of the
world to the other, but we have less than
an hour in which to talk.
So often when the news comes in about
Iran, I remember New Year's Eve, be-
cause you and the President spent New
Year's Eve in Iran and many reporters
like myself were with you. And the Pres-
ident, in his toast at that time, said Mrs.
Carter had said this is where she wanted
to be New Year's Eve, with the Shah and
Empress.
I wonder if you personally have talked
with them and what your view is of them,
of the Shah in particular, as a ruler?
MRS. CARTER. I have not talked with
them, but I've had correspondence back
and forth with Empress Farah. I think
they need our support now more than
ever. I just feel very concerned about
the situation. We had a wonderful visit
with them last year. And New Year's Eve
was special, because after all the formali-
ties and the dinner, we relaxed with them
and with their friends and with a lot of
you all, and just enjoyed being there.
THE PRESIDENT. And King Hussein
was there.
MRS. CARTER. King Hussein was there.
And it was a fun evening for us, and it's
sad that this has happened in the period
of 1 year's time.
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, there
are reports that you've recently sent mes-
sages to the Soviet Union, warning them
to keep hands off of Iran. Can you con-
firm these, and can you tell us if you have
any information on Russian involvement
in Iran?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's accurate.
MS. WALTERS. You have sent the
letters?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. President Brezh-
nev and I exchanged messages.
Ms. WALTERS. Recently?
THE PRESIDENT. Within the last few
weeks, a couple of weeks. And I made it
very clear to them, to the Soviets, that
we have no intention of interfering in the
internal affairs of Iran and that we have
no intention of permitting others to in-
terfere in the internal affairs of Iran.
I think it's good to point out, Barbara,
that Iran has a 2,500-year history of state-
craft, of managing their own affairs prop-
erly. Obviously, they've had ups and
downs, as we have in our own country.
But there's a certain stability there, a cer-
tain inclination and capability of the
Iranians to govern themselves that I think
is a stabilizing factor. We don't know
what changes will take place.
2255
