Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
Babbitt, 40, has been Governor since
1977. He is a former attorney general of
Arizona and former special assistant to
the Director of VISTA.
Missouri River Basin
Commission
Appointment of Millard W. Hall as Chairman.
October 24, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Millard W. Hall, of
Lincoln, Nebr., as Chairman of the Mis-
souri River Basin Commission.
Hall, 42, is director of the Nebraska
Water Resources Research Institute at
the University of Nebraska. He also serves
as a professor of civil engineering there.
Before going to Nebraska in 1975, Hall
was director of the Land and Water Re-
sources Institute at the University of
Maine.
Airline Deregulation Act of 1978
Remarks on Signing S. 2493 Into Law.
October 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have more
people here today than we had when we
tried to organize the campaign to get this
legislation passed. [Laughter]
It is a special pleasure for me today to
sign into law the Airline Deregulation
Act. This legislation will permit us to
achieve two critical objectives. One is to
help our fight against inflation. And the
other one is to ensure American citizens of
an opportunity for low-priced air trans-
portation.
It will also mean less Government inter-
ference in regulation of an increasingly
prosperous airline industry. All of us here
today worked long and hard for this legis-
lation. And the product is well worth that
labor.
In recent months, thanks to the actions
of the Civil Aeronautics Board, under the
leadership of Chairman Alfred Kahn,
we've seen the beginning of real competi-
tion among domestic airlines. Competi-
tion has already helped both consumers
and the industry. It has brought lower
fares, more passengers, and higher profits.
In the future, of course, regulation of air
safety will continue, as it has in the past,
under another Government agency.
With this act, airlines can reduce their
fares up to 50 percent, opening up air
travel to millions of Americans who would
not otherwise be able to afford it.
There will also be more competition for
air routes. In the past, it was almost im-
possible for a new carrier meeting all the
safety and financial requirements to re-
ceive permission to serve the public. But
under the new bill, the opportunities for
entry of new airlines in this service will be
greatly improved.
The bill also provides a more efficient
program for guaranteeing good quality
services of airlines to our smaller commu-
nities. And the bill fulfills the commitment
to lift the heavy hand of Government
regulation, by phasing out route approval
at the end of 1981, phasing out domestic
fare regulation by the end of 1983, and
phasing out all activities of the Civil Aero-
nautics Board by 1985.
For the first time in decades, we have
deregulated a major industry. When I
announced my own support of airline de-
regulation soon after taking office, this
bill had few friends. I'm happy to say that
today it appears to have few enemies.
Governors, mayors, consumer advocates,
all supported the bill. And all will benefit
1837
