Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section 17
(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in this
Proclamation is intended to modify or
revoke the terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding dated September 1, 1972,
entered into between the State of Alaska
and the United States as part of the nego-
tiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton,
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Com-
plaint filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are ap-
propriate, including regulation of the op-
portunity to engage in a subsistence life-
style by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population if
necessary for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of
this monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:03 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Kobuk Valley National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
Lake Clark National
Monument
Proclamation 4622. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
An area in south-central Alaska con-
tains examples of geological phenomena
associated with two major mountains
chains, the Alaska Range and the Chigmit
Mountains, in an array that includes
jagged peaks and two symmetrical, steam-
ing volcanoes. These volcanoes, Redoubt
and Iliamna, have been listed on the
National Registry of Natural Landmarks.
The area's land forms also contribute
to an outstanding example of ecological
diversity in zones which remain relatively
unspoiled for continued scientific re-
search. Large mammals such as moose,
caribou, Dall sheep, grizzly bear, black
bear, and wolverine occur in natural pop-
ulations. Whistling swans nest and rare
trumpeter swans assemble in the area.
Other birds, including bald eagle, gyrfal-
con, osprey, and endangered peregrine
falcon, breed within the area. Seabird
colonies occur along the coast. One of
the most stable natural populations of
caribou in Alaska, the Mulchatna herd,
calves and migrates within the area, of-
fering significant opportunities for scien-
tific study of this mammal.
Sockeye salmon runs within the area
are exceptional. The area includes the
upper drainage of the Kvichak River Sys-
tem, which is the single most productive
spawning and rearing habitat for red sal-
mon in the world, and the subject of sci-
entific research for many years.
Historical resources of the area are sig-
nificant. Kijik Village, on the shore of
2132
