Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mented. I did see some reports in the news
media recently that total imports had in-
creased somewhat.
I don't have any present plans to mod-
ify the program at all. But we'll be con-
stantly assessing it to see if that's required
action in the future.
APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
Q. Mr. President, I'm Eldora Nuzum
from Elkins.
THE PRESIDENT. I recognize you.
Q. We're so happy you came to the
Forest Festival.
THE PRESIDENT. So am I.
Q. I think you need to get out with
the American people more often. The
President walked 2 miles in the Forest
Festival parade, and everybody loved it.
They felt like they were getting to know
you.
Now my question. I know you're cut-
ting back on spending the next year, but
the Appalachian Regional Commission
Act has built new roads in West Virginia,
schools and hospitals. We feel that this is
an investment, and it's very important to
our people in 13 States. Are you planning
on cutting back in this direction?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question yet. I might say that I was chair-
man of the Appalachian Regional Com-
mission while I was Governor of Georgia,
and I'm familiar to that extent with its
function and with its superb improve-
ments that it has made in the whole re-
gion, 13 States.
Also, [Senator] Jennings Randolph
keeps this question constantly before my
eyes. I just talked to Jennings a few min-
utes ago, by the way, to tell him that we
were praying for his wife, who's having
an operation today.
But I can't answer your question about
a specific level of funding for the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission or other
items.
I've just about completed all of my pre-
liminary budget sessions on domestic and
foreign affairs. I'll have my last one this
afternoon and Monday on Defense De-
partment issues. But all I can say is to re-
peat what I said yesterday at the press
conference: that I'll be ultimately respon-
sible to the American people, that when
the budget is revealed to the Congress and
to the public, that it is fair and well bal-
anced, and that we meet our domestic and
defense and foreign needs, and that the
restraints are applied equitably among
all
our people.
But I can't give you an answer yet on
exactly how the Appalachian Regional
Commission will be treated; just that it'll
be treated fairly. And if the Congress, of
course, disagrees and can improve the
budget or modify it, based on primarily
later revelations of inflationary trends and
needs, then, of course, I would have to ac-
commodate those changes.
But that's the best answer I can give
you, which is not a very good answer.
GOVERNOR AND LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
OF FLORIDA
Orlando, Florida. We understand that
Q. Mr. President, Bob Jordan from
sometime ago you were interested in
bringing Reubin Askew into your admin-
istration, our outgoing Governor. We've
since learned that he is going into interna-
tional law. But there's now talk that Lieu-
tenant Governor Williams might find a
place in the Agriculture Department.
Have you given up on bringing Reubin
Askew to Washington, and are you inter-
2154
