July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Tchaikovsky Competition in
Moscow
Remarks at a Reception Honoring Gold
Medal Winners Elmar Oliveira and
Nathaniel Rosen. July 31, 1978
This is a good year for our Nation, and
this is a wonderful day for me.
I spend a large part of my life listening
to beautiful music in the Oval Office and
am an admirer for many years of those
who have superlative talent and who
share it with their fellow human beings.
It's been 12 years since the United
States had a gold medal brought back to
us from the Tchaikovsky Competition in
Moscow. I believe it was 20 years ago that
Van Cliburn brought back a gold medal
and a first-place award in that top com-
petition among the world's greatest musi-
cians.
This year we have two gold medals,
and I'm glad it happened while I was
President. [Laughter]
Nathaniel Rosen, Nick Rosen, is a cellist
who, through a major portion of his life,
has had a superb talent. He was in a final
competition in Moscow in 1966. He didn't
win then, but he came back to Pittsburgh
and has been admired by his fellow towns-
men, by those who perform with him, and
by literally tens of thousands of people in
audiences who have recognized what he
has to offer all of us in the enjoyment of
beautiful music.
He went back this year and competed
and, as you know, he won.
His wife, Jenny, has two great charac-
teristics: One is that she's a cellist, and
the other one is that she's from Macon,
Georgia. [Laughter]
His father, David, is a violinist and, as
you know, the whole family has had a mu-
tual contribution toward competition and
toward the achievement of recognized ex-
cellence.
Elmar Oliveira also brought back a gold
medal to us from the Tchaikovsky Compe-
tition in Moscow this year-a superb vio-
linist from Binghamton, New York, a man
who's benefited from the musical commit-
ment of his own family. His father, I un-
derstand, made his first violin-is that
correct? And he's had a notable achieve-
ment of his own, even at an early age.
When he was 16 years old, he was one
of the soloists with the New York Phil-
harmonic Symphony Orchestra. So, today
I'm pleased to recognize this great
achievement for themselves, personally,
for our Nation, and, indeed, for the entire
world.
During the Tchaikovsky Competition
this year, there were 280 competitors from
37 different nations and, as you know,
they have to be great musicians before
they are permitted even to compete.
This afternoon, we would also like to
recognize the Board of Directors of a new
Federal organization, the Institute of Mu-
seum Services. And it's a good juxtaposi-
tion, because we want American people
to be able to enjoy art, music, the sciences,
history, in all its forms. We are blessed not
only by great performers, great composers,
great artists, but also by great museums,
which are not dead exhibitions of past,
gone glory, but live openings for Ameri-
cans' hearts and minds to understand
what our Nation is, what it has been, and
in addition, what it can be.
It's a continuing, learning process, a
stretching of one's heart and one's mind,
to understand the greatness of the world
that is ours in a free and democratic soci-
ety.
And this afternoon, I would like to con-
gratulate those who are forming the new
Institute of Museum Services and to con-
gratulate and to thank these two wonder-
ful American musicians who have hon-
1356
