Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
destitute during the Depression years have
a chance to live in dignity for a change.
The Democratic Party has always been
the center of reaching out to help people,
not as a gift, but to repair a damage to
them and to recognize in them an innate
worth that God had given them and to
give every human being, no matter how
poor or how deprived, no matter how
tiny their talents might have been, a
chance to stand on their own feet, to make
their own decisions, to work productively,
to be a part of society.
The Democratic Party has always had
a heart. And I'm proud of that. These men
and women who sit on the stage with me
tonight, your senior Senator, exemplify
those qualities. Your next Governor, my
good friend Dick Riley, exemplifies those
qualities; Jack Bass typifies those quali-
ties; your congressional delegation on my
left and right, who are there working with
show those qualities to the Nation.
me,
I've tried to come into the White House
not as someone who knew all the answers,
but as someone who brought a fresh view.
I spent 2 years campaigning around this
country. As you well know, when I first
started, I was a laughingstock. Nobody
thought I had a chance. But I worked,
and my wife worked, my family worked,
many of you worked. Some of you had
great confidence in me. I did enter 30
primaries and won. I've never served
in Washington before, I never lived in
Washington before. But I think I have a
background that qualifies me at least to
know what the people hunger for.
We've made some changes for the
better, with the help of these men on the
stage. I think we've spelled out programs
in the future that will keep us busy for the
next 2 years or more. I feel that we've got
a task given by you, and as I was elected
with
your help, I think we can succeed
with your help.
I'm interested in a lot of races in this
country, but there is no political cam-
paign in the United States in which I
am more deeply and personally interested
than to see a victory won by Pug Ravenel
in November.
If you'll excuse my saying so, I think
we have a lot in common, which is a com-
pliment to me. His family moved to South
Carolina about 200 years ago; mine
moved to Georgia about 200 years ago.
Our families were never rich. My father
was a working man; so was his. My par-
ents were not well educated. I don't think
anybody in my family before me had ever
finished high school or been to college; I
don't know about his. But I had the
chance to go off and get a good education
at the U.S. Naval Academy. And Pug had
a chance to go up North and get a good
education because he worked four part-
time jobs, had a scholarship—was an out-
standing athlete; I was not. He's brought
something back to South Carolina that's
precious, as did I when I went off for
11 years in the Navy.
When I became Governor of Georgia, I
had made friends all over the United
States who had become executives in large
corporations and businesses. And when I
began to recruit new industry, new jobs
into Georgia, I called my friends. And
they helped Georgia.
Pug Ravenel has got a much broader
base of friendship in that area than I ever
had. And there's no doubt in my mind
that those few years he spent outside of
South Carolina can pay rich dividends
for you in the future, because there's an
intense interest among those who know
Pug best, in seeing him exert a position of
leadership not only for South Carolina but
for the whole country. And that experi-
ence he's had as a young man will pay
off greatly for you.
1586
