July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in particular to the buildup of Warsaw
Pact forces in Central Europe, and to the
steady growth of Soviet forces for more
than a decade.
MR. LOHFELDT. So what is the West
supposed to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I have confidence in
the strength of the West to meet this chal-
lenge-strength in military forces, in our
collective will, and in our economies, po-
litical systems, and moral values. We will
continue to maintain that strength. In
time, we hope to convince the Soviet
Union that a competition in arms adds
nothing to either side's security, so that
it will turn away from its overemphasis on
military power and toward peaceful pur-
suits.
U.S.-CHINESE RELATIONS
MR. LOHFELDT. Regarding the perma-
nent conflict between the Soviet Union
and China, do you think it wise for the
United States to play the "Chinese card"
in order to put some pressure on the So-
viet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. “Chinese card" is not
a term used by my administration. The
United States seeks to improve its rela-
tions with both the Soviet Union and the
People's Republic of China. With regard
to China, that means working within the
framework of the Shanghai Communique,
in the search for practical ways to normal-
ize our relations.
MR. LOHFELDT. And you are not afraid
that a closer U.S.-Chinese relationship
might lead to an even more adamant
Soviet attitude?
THE PRESIDENT. As the United States
has made clear many times, nothing in the
evolution of our policy towards China is
in any way intended to affect adversely
the interests of third countries, including
the Soviet Union. We believe that a pro-
ductive U.S.-Chinese relationship is worth
seeking on its own merits, and that a
strong and secure China is in our interest.
U.S. ENERGY POLICY
MR. LOHFELDT. Mr. President, the
western economy is in a severe crisis. One
of the main reasons and symptoms is the
weakness of the U.S. dollar, which is, first
of all, caused by America's massive oil
imports. What kind of a solution do you
envisage to reduce these imports?
THE PRESIDENT. We have already been
quite successful in carrying out the basic
promises of the London Economic Sum-
mit. We agreed to attempt to cut down on
the level of oil imports, and we have had
good success.
MR. LOHFELDT. Really?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first 5 months
of this year, without an energy law being
in effect, we reduced the oil imports by
almost 1 million barrels a day. And with
the passage of the energy legislation, we
anticipate another 2.3 million barrels a
day of savings.
MR. LOHFELDT. But how are the
chances for the passage of the energy leg-
islation?
THE PRESIDENT. Agreement has been
reached among the major committees of
the Congress on four out of the five com-
ponents of the comprehensive program
we proposed to reduce consumption and
increase production on energy. The fifth
element of this package, the crude oil
equalization tax, is still being considered
by the Congress. I am working closely
with the Congress to secure its passage,
and I think they will decide this success-
fully before they adjourn for this year. I
remain committed to this legislation and
its objectives.
1276
