Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the people of our country, to give us guid-
ance.
We've accomplished a great deal al-
ready in putting our people back to work.
We provided better services in strengthen-
ing our cities, education, highways, a
stronger defense. At the same time, we've
been able to cut taxes-last year, $8 bil-
lion, this year, $19 billion more.
I have also been concerned about the
budget deficits. When I ran for President
in 1976, the budget deficit for the Federal
Government was over $66 billion. Now,
to give better services, to cut taxes, and
also to reduce the deficit is not an easy
combination to achieve. But we've already
cut the Federal budget deficit more than
$25 billion. By the next budget, which I'm
now working on, we will have cut the
budget deficit for the Federal Govern-
ment more than half.
And this congressional delegation that
you're sending to Washington and I
pledge ourselves to continue our efforts,
with a strong economy, to get the Federal
Government budget balanced in the years
ahead.
With Abe Ribicoff's leadership, the
Congress passed and I signed this week a
new ethics bill. The vast majority of top
Government officials are honest, decent,
sensitive, wanting to be accountable to
you. But I pledged in the campaign that
we would let it be more open. So, I signed
a bill this week that requires all the Mem-
bers of Congress, the President, the Vice
President, the Cabinet members, every
person who has any kind of top leadership
role in the executive branch of Govern-
ment, all the Federal judges, to reveal
their net worth and to reveal their source
of income to the people of our country,
not only to prove they're honest but to
remove temptations which sometimes
afflict those in positions of power.
This is a good step forward, and I hope
that in this respect and also by proceeding
on our platform goals, that confidence in
our Government will be restored.
We have the strongest military force on
Earth, and we're going to keep it that
way. I lived and worked as a young officer
in Connecticut, in New London, when I
was in submarines on two different occa-
sions, and I know how much your own
State has contributed to a strong national
defense. With that strength can come steps
toward peace. We're negotiating a new
SALT agreement with the Soviet Union.
We're working on it every day.
Very early next month Abe Ribicoff will
take 10 other Members of the Senate to
the Soviet Union to explore new ways
whereby we might guarantee peace with
them and a growing sense of friendship.
Peace is important to us, and I'm very
proud of the fact that so far since I've
been in the White House, not a single
American person, no soldier, sailor, ma-
rine has shed blood in any conflict over-
seas. And I hope that I go out of office
with that same record.
We've tried to maintain a strong moral
leadership. I want our Nation's Govern-
ment to have the reputation all over the
Earth of being clean and decent. We're
struggling with difficult issues in South
Africa, in Cyprus, strengthening NATO,
exploring ways for new peace and recog-
nition between ourselves and our former
adversaries in Asia.
And as you know, we've been lucky so
far, after Camp David, in trying to bring
peace to the Mideast. This is not an easy
thing to do. There are ancient, historical
enmities, distrust, hatred, repeated wars.
The negotiating effort is not yet over. We
need your support and we need your
prayers.
In recent days we've had a problem, as
you know, with the Israeli settlement an-
nouncement. President Sadat had sent
word to his delegation to come back to
1890
