Nov. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Under this bill, however, authority to
increase meat imports would be tied to
declaration of a national emergency or
natural disaster, or to a restrictive price
formula. Under this formula, the farm
price of cattle would have to increase
faster than the retail meat price by more
than ten percent during the first two cal-
endar quarters of a year. Under this for-
mula, quotas could have been relaxed
only once in the last ten years.
I also believe that the United States
must avoid imposing excessive restric-
tions on our trading partners who supply
us with meat. H.R. 11545 would impose
those restrictions by stipulating a mini-
mum access level for meat imports of 1.2
billion pounds, instead of the 1.3 billion
my Administration recommended. I am
concerned that the bill's lower level could
harm our trade relations with the meat
exporting countries and thus impair their
long-term reliability as sources of addi-
tional meat supplies when our own pro-
duction is low, particularly at a time
when we are negotiating for greater ac-
cess to foreign markets for both our in-
dustrial and agricultural products.
If the Congress had enacted H.R.
11545 without these objectionable provi-
sions, I would have been pleased to sign
it, as my advisers make clear repeatedly.
The bill would have amended the Meat
Import Act of 1964 to provide a new
formula for determining meat import
quotas. The new formula would have ad-
justed meat import quotas up when dom-
estic production of meats subject to the
quota went down. Under the 1964 meat
import law, quotas are adjusted in the op-
posite way, so that as domestic production
declines, the limits on meat imports are
tightened, at exactly the wrong time. This
defect has often compelled Presidents to
increase or suspend the meat import
quota, in order to ensure supplies of meat
at reasonable prices. The new counter-
cyclical formula would, in most years,
automatically make the necessary adjust-
ment in the meat import quotas, without
involving the President in the normal op-
eration of the meat trade.
This Administration supports such
counter-cyclical management of meat im-
ports; in fact, the Department of Agricul-
ture was instrumental in developing the
formula which the Congress approved.
But for all the advantages of the new for-
mula, it is still an untested mechanical
formula which may not respond ideally
to all future situations. This is why I find
the restrictions on the President's discre-
tion to increase meat imports so objec-
tionable and why my Administration's
support for H.R. 11545 was so clearly
conditioned upon removal of those re-
strictions and on increasing the minimum
access level for meat imports to 1.3 billion
pounds annually.
I am prepared to work with the Con-
gress next year to pass a counter-cycli-
cal meat import bill which will provide
the stability and certainty the cattle in-
dustry requires, while preserving the Pres-
ident's existing discretionary authority
and setting an acceptable minimum ac-
cess level for imports.
The White House,
November 10, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of disap-
proval was released on November 11.
Anti-Inflation Program
Statement on Administration Measures To
Implement the Program. November 11, 1978
I have taken four actions which un-
derscore my commitment to restraining
inflation and to implementing an anti-
inflation program which is fair but tough.
2010
