Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 6
Meeting With President
Spyros Kyprianou of Cyprus
White House Statement. October 6, 1978
President Carter and Cypriot President
Spyros Kyprianou met this morning from
10:15 to 10:45 in the Cabinet Room for
a useful and friendly exchange of views on
how progress could be made towards a
just and lasting solution of the Cyprus
problem which would meet the needs of
all the people of Cyprus and contribute to
lasting peace in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean.
President Carter expressed the desire of
the United States Government to work ac-
tively for a just and lasting settlement of
the Cyprus problem within the framework
of the United Nations.
Attending the meeting on the American
side were Deputy Secretary of State War-
ren Christopher; Matthew Nimetz, Coun-
selor of the State Department; Dr. Zbig-
niew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs; and Paul B.
Henze, NSC staff member. Accompany-
ing President Kyprianou were Foreign
Minister Nikos Rolandis; George Pela-
ghias, Director General of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs; and Nicos G. Dimi-
triou, Cypriot Ambassador to the United
States.
Equal Rights Amendment and
Humphrey-Hawkins Full
Employment Legislation
Statement on Senate Action on the ERA
Extension Resolution and a White House
Task Force on the Employment Legislation.
October 6, 1978
I am delighted by today's passage of the
Senate resolution extending the time for
the States to ratify the equal rights amend-
ment to the Constitution.
Our concern for human rights must be-
gin at home, and the rights of citizenship
must be protected, regardless of sex. I
believe it is past time for that protection
to be written into the Constitution of the
United States. That is why I have been
so strongly committed to ERA, and why
I urged the Senate to take the action it
took today.
I want to again commend the many
citizens organizations that have worked
so closely with us to obtain passage of the
extension and to thank Senator Birch
Bayh and Majority Leader Robert Byrd
for their outstanding leadership on this
issue.
I hope that States which have not yet
ratified the amendment will now take
speedy advantage of this additional op-
portunity to do so.
Human rights also includes economic
opportunity. With the passage of the ERA
extension, we can devote full attention to
passage of the Humphrey-Hawkins full
employment bill before the end of this
session. I have asked Louis Martin and
Anne Wexler of my staff to chair a White
House task force to coordinate adminis-
tration activities in support of this legisla-
tion. Hamilton Jordan will meet with this
task force and representatives of citizens
groups supporting the legislation at noon
on Monday.
Federal Communications
Commission
Nomination of Anne P. Jones To Be a
Member. October 6, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Anne P. Jones, of Arlington,
Mass., to be a member of the Federal
Communications Commission for a term
1719
