Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 1, 1978
Boise, Idaho
Informal Exchange With Reporters on
Arrival at Boise Airport. August 21, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody. Good to
see you.
Q. We're told you're not going to say
anything real heavy for us, but you might
say a little something.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll say the most
important thing. I'm glad to be in Idaho.
We've been looking forward to it. I used
to come out here back in the early fifties
when I was working under Admiral Rick-
over, came into Pocatello and Arco. And I
came out here when Cecil Andrus was
Governor-we're very close friends—and
we're really looking forward to going
down the Middle Fork. I'm an old
canoeist and kayaker.
Q. You're going to try that?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think we will
probably stick with the raft. But if they
give me a chance, I might try the canoe
at least.
Q. You better watch out for him. He's
a fly-fishing enthusiast. Is there a chal-
lenge to do any particular contest as to
how many and how big you're going to
catch on the-
THE PRESIDENT. He brought his own
fly-casting outfit. I've got mine back in
Georgia. But I'm going to have to borrow
one. So, if he does win and catch the
biggest fish, it's because he's fishing with
his own tackle. [Laughter]
Q. Can we ask you one thing of small
substance?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course.
Q. Apparently you met with Senator
McClure last Thursday-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. concerning the continuation of
the atomic breeder reactor program.
Have you changed your position on that?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not at all. We
are strongly in favor of an adequate, very
strong research and development program
in the breeder field. My own background
is in nuclear physics, and I'm familiar with
the need for it. What I don't want to do is
to firm up a specific design plan and start
building the Clinch River breeder reac-
tor, which, by the time it's finished, will
be outdated and which will sap away the
research and development funds that I
think can be used much better to our ad-
vantage the way we have it planned.
But I think that Senator McClure
agrees with this approach. His only con-
cern, since I hadn't talked to him about it,
was to be sure that our country is going
to have a strong, viable, aggressive, con-
1473
