Oct. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ineering and the eloquent, but it's also
available to the poor and the meek and
those who are often inarticulate or even
ignorant. Nonviolence is effective among
the young and not just the old.
I think this is why our traditional na-
tional structures have been changed for
the better. And certainly in my lifetime,
perhaps even in the entire history of our
country, there's not been a change so pro-
found, no one that was so greatly needed,
no one that's been consummated with
such uniform benefits for all-those who
espoused the change originally, those who
fought it bitterly until it was obvious that
it was inevitable.
This kind of commitment depends on
the strength of convictions. It depends on
the capacity to love. It depends on an
ability to accept blows and suffering and
not to return them. It depends on loving
through to a victory that transcends that
kind of victory that can be won by force,
because it involves, as Christ taught, a vic-
tory brought about by changing the hearts
of people who were enemies.
It's ever more important if we are to
Of course, we've not overcome all the
injustices and inequities that he and others
set out to change and to make right. But
we've passed many a milestone already
along that difficult road.
I said last year, in honoring Martin
Luther King, Jr., with the highest civilian
honor that I, as President, can bestow,
the Presidential Medal of Freedom, that
he made our Nation stronger because he
made us better. And tonight I'd like to
add that he made our world better be-
cause he made our Nation stronger.
We are better able to stand the assaults
and attacks and criticisms of those who
would deny freedom and justice every-
where, maybe able to hold fast, sometimes
turning the other cheek to abuse, but with
our feet willing only to move forward, not
backward, until at last we all overcome
together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:44 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Nomination of Henry David Owen.
October 3, 1978
gain full human rights around the world Ambassador at Large
for us to set an example of freedom from
threat and torture, of freedom from dis-
ease and hunger, of freedom of ideas for
all people without requiring that people
be sacrificed for the worthy causes that
they espouse.
That's what makes the Martin Luther
King, Jr. Center for Social Change so
important. It's the primary repository for
the documents and films and photographs,
verbal statements of those who brought
about the civil rights movement.
Quite often I have leaders come to visit
me as their first stop, and their second stop
is in Atlanta to think back and to pay
tribute to a man who served our Nation,
who served me, who served all Americans
so well.
The President today announced that he
will nominate Henry David Owen, of
Washington, D.C., to be Ambassador at
Large for economic summit affairs.
As U.S. Representative to the Interna-
tional Summit Preparatory Group, Owen
will represent the President in interna-
tional preparations for economic summit
meetings and in international followup on
these meetings. In order to discharge these
duties, Owen will coordinate U.S. Gov-
ernment preparation and followup on
summit agenda issues for the Secretary of
State and in conjunction with other de-
1704
