Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 22, 1978
Camp David Meeting on the
Middle East
Remarks of the President, President Anwar
al-Sadat of Egypt, and Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel at the Conclusion
of the Meeting. September 17, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. When we first ar-
rived at Camp David, the first thing upon
which we agreed was to ask the people
of the world to pray that our negotiations
would be successful. Those prayers have
been answered far beyond any expecta-
tions. We are privileged to witness tonight
a significant achievement in the cause of
peace, an achievement none thought pos-
sible a year ago, or even a month ago, an
achievement that reflects the courage and
wisdom of these two leaders.
Through 13 long days at Camp David,
we have seen them display determination
and vision and flexibility which was
needed to make this agreement come to
pass. All of us owe them our gratitude and
respect. They know that they will always
have my personal admiration.
There are still great difficulties that
remain and many hard issues to be settled.
The questions that have brought warfare
and bitterness to the Middle East for the
last 30 years will not be settled overnight.
But we should all recognize the substan-
tial achievements that have been made.
One of the agreements that President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin are sign-
ing tonight is entitled, "A Framework for
Peace in the Middle East."
This framework concerns the principles
and some specifics, in the most substantive
way, which will govern a comprehensive
peace settlement. It deals specifically with
the future of the West Bank and Gaza
and the need to resolve the Palestinian
problem in all its aspects. The framework
document proposes a 5-year transitional
period in the West Bank and Gaza during
which the Israeli military government
will be withdrawn and a self-governing
authority will be elected with full auton-
omy. It also provides for Israeli forces
to remain in specified locations during
this period to protect Israel's security.
The Palestinians will have the right to
participate in the determination of their
own future, in negotiations which will re-
solve the final status of the West Bank
and Gaza, and then to produce an Is-
raeli-Jordanian peace treaty.
These negotiations will be based on all
the provisions and all the principles of
United Nations Security Council Resolu-
tion 242. And it provides that Israel may
live in peace, within secure and recog-
nized borders. And this great aspiration of
Israel has been certified without con-
straint, with the greatest degree of en-
1519
