Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 21
legislation. I particularly want to thank
Speaker O'Neill, Chairman Bizz Johnson,
and Representatives Glenn Anderson and
Allen Ertel for their spirited champion-
ship of this effort to reduce Government
meddling in the affairs of private busi-
ness.
The deregulation bill will take decision-
making out of the hands of five regulators
and 800 Government bureaucrats who sit
here in Washington and put it back in the
hands of the men and women whose job
it is to run the airlines. It will cut in-
flation. It will let free market forces op-
erate as they should.
The Senate has already passed the bill.
I hope it goes quickly to conference and
reaches my desk for signature as soon as
possible.
Imports From India
Proclamation 4600. September 21, 1978
TEMPORARY STAGED REDUCTION OF
RATES OF DUTY ON CERTAIN PRODUCTS
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. The President has determined, pur-
suant to section 101 (a) of the Trade Act
of 1974 (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C. 2111
(a)), that certain existing duties of the
United States are unduly burdening and
restricting the foreign trade of the United
States and that one or more of the pur-
poses of the Trade Act would be pro-
moted by entering into the trade agree-
ment with India identified in the fifth
recital of this proclamation.
2. Pursuant to section 131 (a) of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2151(a)), the
President, on January 14, 1975, published
and furnished the United States Inter-
national Trade Commission (USITC)
with lists of articles which may be con-
sidered for modifications or continuance
of the existing United States duties, con-
tinuance of the United States duty-free
or excise treatment, or additional duties,
in the negotiation of trade agreements, in-
cluding the trade agreement with India
identified in the fifth recital of this proc-
lamation. The USITC, after holding pub-
lic hearings, has advised the President
with respect to each such article of its
judgment as to the probable economic ef-
fect of such modifications of duties on
industries producing like or directly com-
petitive articles and on consumers.
3. Pursuant to section 133 of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2153) and in accordance
with section 4 (c) of Executive Order No.
11846 of March 27, 1975, the Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations
designated the Trade Policy Staff Com-
mittee to afford an opportunity, through
public hearings and other means, for any
interested person to present his views con-
cerning any article on the lists identified
in the second recital of this proclamation
or any other matter relevant to the trade
agreement negotiations, including the ne-
gotiation of the trade agreement with
India identified in the fifth recital of this
proclamation. The Trade Policy Staff
Committee has furnished the President
with a summary of its hearings.
4. Pursuant to section 132 of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2152) the President has
received information and advice with re-
spect to the trade agreement with India
identified in the fifth recital of this proc-
lamation, from the Departments of Agri-
culture, Commerce, Defense, Interior,
Labor, State and the Treasury, from the
Special Representative for Trade Nego-
tiations, and from such other sources as
the President has deemed appropriate.
1563
