Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
NOVEMBER 30, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press]?
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, if worse came to
worse and I know that you don't an-
ticipate this eventuality-but if the
choice came down to continuing the
fight against inflation and reconciling
yourself to being a one-term President,
which choice would you make? [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. I would maintain the
fight against inflation-and at the same
time I would like to add a comment that
I believe this is exactly what the Ameri-
can people want. Instead of being an un-
popular act, I think it would be a popu-
lar act to maintain it. I think we will be
successful in leveling off the rate of infla-
tion and then bringing it down, and I
don't see any adverse political conse-
quences from doing so.
I'd like to add one other point, and
that is that the decisions are not easy ones.
As we go into a very tight 1980 fiscal
year budget, I'm beginning to see more
and more clearly how difficult it will be.
But I intend to do it.
DEFENSE SPENDING; WEAPONS SYSTEMS
Q. On that subject, Mr. President, do
plan to stay with your pledge to in-
crease your defense budget by 3 percent
despite your anti-inflation drive? And
also on defense, there are published re-
ports that you're going to change your nu-
clear strategy to focus more on massive
retaliation. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer
the last part first. Our nuclear policy ba-
sically is one of deterrence; to take actions
that are well known by the American peo-
ple and well known by the Soviets and
other nations; that any attack on us
would result in devastating destruction by
the nation which launched an attack
against us. So, the basic policy is one of
deterrence.
We, obviously, constantly assess the
quality of our own nuclear weapon sys-
tems as times change, as technological ad-
vances are made, and as the change takes
place in the Soviet Union's arsenal. We
keep our weapons up to date; we improve
our communications and command and
information systems. But we will main-
tain basically a deterrent policy rather
than to change the basic policy itself.
The other answer to your question is
that our goal and that of other NATO
nations is to increase the real level of de-
fense expenditures. This is our goal. Each
expenditure on defense, each system for
which we spend the taxpayers' money will
be much more carefully assessed this year
to make sure that we are efficient and ef-
fective in the funds that we do expend.
Over the last number of years, includ-
ing since I've been in office even, the per-
centage of our total budget and our gross
national product that goes into defense
has been decreasing. And at the conclu-
sion of the budget cycle, when I make the
budget public to the Congress and to the
people in about 6 weeks, I know that I'll
be responsible to make sure that the social
and other domestic needs of our Nation
are met, our international obligations are
fulfilled, and an adequate defense is as-
sured, and that there be a proper balance
among these different, sometimes con-
flicting, demands.
So, I'll be responsible, and I will assure
you and other Americans that when the
2096
