Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
new college. At that time there was a com-
mon belief in our Nation that women
couldn't stand the rigors of college life,
but you knew different. And now this
State has the highest educational level of
any State in the Nation.
The State constitution recognized in
1896 that women and men should have
the same civil, political, religious rights
and privileges. And we are trying now to
spread that same commitment through-
out our entire Nation. The recognition of
what a human being is, what a human
being can be, is important. But a commit-
ment of one person to another to realize
that great potential is an element some-
times missing in our modern society.
Many people these days feel alone.
There is a Yiddish proverb, a religious
proverb, that says, "God gave burdens,
also shoulders." A simple proverb-it
doesn't say God gave us burdens, but he
gave us shoulders strong enough to bear
them, it just says, "God gave burdens, also
shoulders." We not only have our own
shoulders to carry burdens, but we have
others to help, not just to carry burdens
but, sometimes, shoulders to cry on. Those
shoulders let us bear the burdens of life.
And with each generation comes a tre-
mendous challenge, difficulties, and most
of those challenges and difficulties are de-
rived from mandatory change. We tend to
think the changes that take place in our
own life are the greatest that have ever
afflicted any generation, but this is not
true.
Our early forebears in this Nation of-
fered their lives, all their belongings, even
their family security, to achieve freedom,
liberty. Later, our Nation was torn by a
War Between the States. Pioneers moved
West. The changes that took place in in-
dividual lives then were much greater
than those that take place today.
But we learned in a time of change, no
matter which generation it is, that there
are some things which do not change.
Those things can be described as the ele-
ments of a good family-truth, unselfish-
ness, idealism, commitment, courage, un-
derstanding, morality, security, love. As a
father, I understand those things. As a
husband, I understand those things. As
President, I understand the same things.
There are legitimate roles for a govern-
ment to perform: to assure that our Na-
tion lives in peace; to assure that our peo-
ple have an opportunity for employment,
for jobs, to use what talent God might
have given them in a sustained and pro-
ductive way; to eliminate the threats to
society, to the family-drugs, crime; to
initiate preventive health care; to provide
for better education, transportation, se-
curity; to cut down on some of the afflic-
tions, such as unwanted pregnancies that
lead to abortions, things that deeply re-
ligious people and others deplore; to raise
the ideals of individuals; and to sustain
the ideals and morals of a nation itself.
I know how much less difficult my own
duties would be as President if your mam-
moth crusade for stable and strong fami-
lies should be successful. That's why I feel
a close kinship with you and a partner-
ship with you in achieving this noble
purpose.
Each person's sphere of influence need
not be great. A father, a mother, a child
can change the course of human history,
can change the character of a commu-
nity, a State, or even a nation. If we cling
to those things, that should never change.
God gave us burdens, also shoulders, so
that we, working together under religious
teachings that we study from different
perspectives, in a nation committed to in-
dividualism and freedom and high pur-
pose, might be successful and that you
2087
