Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
we cannot afford to spend or, I think, to passed the House and is waiting in the
waste.
I believe that some modification is
needed for firefighters, but I personally
believe that this legislation was too in-
flationary. I vetoed the legislation after
it had been passed by the Congress once
this year, and I don't believe it's germane
to the legislation that we are trying to
consider.
Civil service reform is so crucial to the
better management of government and
the provision of better services to the Na-
tion and the protection of employees'
rights and adequate management and
promotion and reward for those who do
a good job, I hate to see it delayed by the
kind of amendments to which you did
refer.
It still faces formidable opposition, and
I think the only way that this legislation
could be defeated this year, having the
overwhelming support of the Congress,
the overwhelming support of the Ameri-
can people, is for deliberate delay to be
pursued. This is something that we need
to guard against. And I would hope that
all those who watch this program or who
are here tonight will add your voices, to
my own and others to encourage a rapid
conclusion of this very important legisla-
tion. The people are ready for it through-
out the country, and the group in our
Nation who would benefit most are those
who have given their entire careers to
public service.
HATCH ACT REFORM
MR. BUCKLE. Mr. President, in con-
nection with this issue on the Hatch Act
reform that's incorporated in the bill, as
you indicated, you've given your support
to Hatch Act reform in the past. As you'll
recall, this went through both Houses of
the Congress during President Ford's ad-
ministration, and he vetoed it. It's now
Senate. How do you feel about helping
the Senate to get it on the floor and at
least let it be debated on the floor without
having to be filibustered?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to see the
Hatch Act legislation come to the Senate
floor and be passed, and I would be glad
to sign it.
MR. CAMPBELL. Could I just add, Mr.
President, to that, that we've made every
effort to get the bill to the floor. We have
sought a floor leader for it. The problem
is that there is a threatened filibuster, and
it is not clear that there are the votes
necessary to overcome that filibuster in
case the bill was taken up.
THE PRESIDENT. The crux of the mat-
ter though, just to repeat an important
point, is that with the Hatch Act tied to
the civil service reform legislation, my
guess is that neither one would pass,
which would be a very bad thing to have
happen.
Perhaps now we might in the time re-
maining go to the audience. Yes?
QUESTIONS
PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF CIVIL SERVICE
Q. Good evening. Hello. My name's
Eleanor Fischer, and I've been a Federal
employee for 9 years. And one of the
things that I've experienced as a Federal
employee is a fair amount of criticism-
comes from my brothers and sisters and
friends and neighbors that being a Fed-
eral employee is not in their perception a
very good thing for me to do. As a matter
of fact, I noticed about a week ago that I
was feeling ashamed of being a Federal
employee. And one of the things that I
wanted to mention was that my reading
about this new bill is that it is announced
to be a tool that will facilitate the firing
of Federal employees, which infers that
there are a lot of us deserving firing.
1370
