Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and your economy program, Mr. Presi-
dent.
So, I think we're on the way. Those
that also would say we are raising the ex-
pectation of people, well, I can only say
that I hope that we are. I hope that we are
keeping alive the hopes of millions of
Americans who believe that in a mean-
ingful job at decent wages, that that is
something which America can afford to
give to them. And I hope that we forever
keep that hope alive, that expectation. To
me, that is not asking for too much.
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman Haw-
kins just told me that he and Senator
Humphrey began work on this bill in
1971. And it's been a long and difficult
struggle, and the bill is filled with great
and important substance. If it wasn't, the
struggle would not have been so great,
and so many people would not have been
sweating, now that they've read what's in
the bill. [Laughter]
It's going to put a great responsibility
on me as President, on every member of
my Cabinet, on the Federal Reserve
Board, on every Member of the Congress,
on labor, business, to carry out the man-
dates of this legislation.
It is very important and, I think, will
transform not only the employment op-
portunities and growth but the basic
planning mechanism by which the eco-
nomic future of our Nation can be as-
sessed, goals can be set, and mechanisms
to reach those goals can be made possible.
It's very important legislation, and I
thank Gus Hawkins and Senator Hum-
phrey, both Senators Humphrey, for this
work.
I'd like to call now on Coretta King,
who was the first one to talk to me about
this legislation when I was still Governor
of Georgia. [Laughter]
MRS. KING. This is indeed a great his-
torical occasion, perhaps as significant as
the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Per-
haps in the future, history will record that
it may be even more significant, Mr.
President, because I think it deals with
an issue on a basic human right that's the
most basic of all human rights, the right
to a job. And that is a central priority now
of our economic policy with the signing
of this act into law today.
I want to express my appreciation to all
of those persons in the Full Employment
Action Council, Full Employment Com-
mittee, the National Committee for Full
Employment, as started 4 years ago in a
coalition effort working for a full-employ-
ment economy. Gus Hawkins was there
that day, Leon Keyserling was there that
day, and a number of other people who
are in this audience.
I am representing my cochairperson,
Murray Finley of Amalgamated Clothing
and Textile Workers, who could not be
here. And with me, Irving Bluestone of
the United Auto Workers and Jay Clay-
man of IDUD. In the audience are other
members of our coalition representing the
Urban League, the NAACP-Mr. Hooks
was supposed to have been up on the plat-
form, I believe who are all members of
the 84 organizations in the coalition, in-
cluding Dr. Howard Spragg of the Na-
tional Council of Churches.
As President Carter said in 1974, I
called him and he was still Governor, and
asked him if he would join our committee.
And he asked if I would send the material,
and later on, he signed his card as a mem-
ber of the National Committee for Full
Employment. Now, we'd selected only one
Governor, and we very carefully selected
him. [Laughter] I don't know; maybe we
were prophetic, because here he is today
as the President who signs this legislation
and makes it a law.
I want to express my appreciation on
behalf of the coalition to both authors of
the bill. I think of Senator Muriel along
1874
