Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
There are some other rather technical
amendments that have been added in the
House committee, some of them men-
tioned already by Mr. Buckle, with which
we still disagree and hope to get them
amended on the House floor or in con-
ference.
REPRESENTATIVE FISHER. I have
thought that labor relations, if you want
to call them that, in the Government serv-
ice are different in significant ways from
labor relations in the private sector. And
basically, this goes back to Mr. Rettie's
opening comments having to do with,
well, philosophical differences between
public service and private employment.
It does seem to me in the present con-
text that there should not be collective
bargaining on pay and benefits and that
the agency shop arrangement should not
be in the picture. And I would agree with
you, Mr. President, and the House com-
mittee and others on that.
The disputes, I think, come as to wheth-
er, within the reach of collective bargain-
ing, should be such things as layoffs,
promotions, setting job classifications, job
assignments, and things like that. I
haven't really thought my way through it.
The House has added these things and
one or two others. And I think we ought
to have just a very thorough airing of this
to see how far we want to go.
THE PRESIDENT. Which will probably
take place in the House debate.
REPRESENTATIVE FISHER. Yes, I'm
sure it will, and in the Senate.
ganize and bargain, but I am disturbed
by the House committee actions which
extend those rights to what I consider
management responsibilities in such areas
as job classification, defining layoffs and
promotion standards, determining the
number and types of employees assigned
to jobs. I think this is totally inconsistent
with your goal of achieving more effi-
ciency and more effective management in
government.
I'd like to know, Mr. President, how
you feel about other committee action
which has had the effect of turning the
centerpiece of your legislative program
into a sort of Christmas tree with the ad-
dition of such controversial and unrelated
subjects as the Hatch Act revision and the
reduction in the firefighters' work week.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm opposed to those
very strongly as parts of the civil service
reform. I don't think they are germane at
all.
As you know, the Hatch Act legislation
is legislation that I did support and do sup-
port. It was passed by the House and is
now in the Senate. But the Hatch Act
applies to a completely new category of
workers not covered by civil service, the
Post Office workers, tens of thousands of
them.
And the abbreviation of the firefight-
ers' week I oppose on several grounds,
the most important of which I'll men-
tion tonight is a tremendous increase in
the wages paid them for a given number
of hours of work. During regular work-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know. Mary ing hours, the wage increase would
Anne?
AMENDMENTS TO CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
MARY ANNE LECOS. Mr. President, as
a long-time member of a local school
board which bargained collectively with
some success for many years, I approve
the codification of the Executive order
under which Federal employees can or-
amount to 30 percent, and in overtime,
another extra 15 percent.
We just can't afford that. Just take one
department, for instance, the Department
of Defense. In order to provide the same
level of firefighting service, they would
have to employ 4,600 employees addi-
tional at the cost of tens of millions of
additional dollars. And this is money that
1369
