Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
redouble its efforts to reach accord on
these unresolved issues. I call on Mem-
bers of the Congress to join in this effort.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11504 is Public Law
95-334, approved August 4.
National Science Foundation
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. August 4, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
the 27th Annual Report of the National
Science Foundation, covering Fiscal Year
1977.
This is an important document. Many
of the issues facing our Nation today, in
areas such as energy, the economy, and
the environment, require special knowl-
edge and detailed information. Advances
in the sciences, many of which are dis-
cussed in this report, enhance our under-
standing of ourselves and the world about
us, and thus assist us in seeking wise and
intelligent solutions to these complex
problems.
Federally supported scientific progress
has flourished now for several decades.
This pursuit of scientific knowledge—at
colleges and universities, national research
centers, and other research organiza-
tions-depends heavily on judiciously al-
lotted Federal funds, as does the education
of many talented young students who
might not otherwise attain the careers in
science for which they are qualified.
This report describes in brief many of
the National Science Foundation's activi-
ties in the past year, in support of basic
and applied research, as well as education
and training in science and engineering.
There is a significant emphasis upon basic
research, the principle mission of the NSF.
In recent years, the American people have
learned that even with the help of the
most advanced technology, some of our
most pressing national problems can be
tackled only by diligent, long-term atten-
tion. The needed basic research supported
by the National Science Foundation con-
tinually enlarges our capacity to deal with
many of these major national and interna-
tional issues.
I believe the activities of the National
Science Foundation reviewed in this An-
nual Report represent funds well spent
in the public interest. I, therefore, com-
mend this report to your close attention,
confident that many of you will share my
interest in the extraordinary range of sci-
entific pursuits that it describes.
The White House,
August 4, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science
Foundation: Twenty-seventh Annual Report
for Fiscal Year 1977" (Government Printing
Office, 145 pages).
Association of South-East
Asian Nations
White House Statement Issued Following a
Meeting With Ministers From the Association.
August 4, 1978
President Carter met today with Min-
isters from the Association of South-East
Asian Nations (ASEAN), who are hold-
ing their first U.S.-ASEAN Ministerial
Meeting in Washington from August 2–4.
The President said that the United States
fully supports ASEAN efforts to encour-
age economic, social, and cultural coop-
eration among its members and to pro-
mote peace and stability in Southeast
Asia. He expressed admiration for
ASEAN economic progress. The Presi-
dent told the ASEAN Ministers that the
United States was prepared to embark on
1378
