Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
southern Africa, to bring peace to Cyprus,
to bring peace in the Middle East. A few
hours ago in New York I was with Prime
Minister Begin. Cy Vance, the Secretary
of State, is meeting with him there all day
today. We had some success, some good
luck at Camp David because of the tre-
mendous courage of President Sadat,
Prime Minister Begin, who represent the
hunger in their people's hearts for peace.
We've got the greatest country on
Earth. With your help, between now and
next Tuesday, we will elect this fine Dem-
ocratic slate, and in the future, because of
you, we'll have an even greater nation
than it is today.
Thank you very much, partners. We'll
work together for the next 4 days.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:08 p.m. at the
Industrial Mutual Association Hall. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Bobby D. Crim,
speaker of the Michigan House of Represent-
atives.
I believe that if we keep on working
together and if I, when I speak, my voice
is recognized as representing what you
want, with decisions made openly, after
public debate, with the knowledge of the
Congress, that my voice will not be hol- Skokie, Illinois
low and not be discounted by other
leaders. And I believe that through
strength, through a common commit-
ment of the American people to restore
the greatness of our Nation, we can be
successful in the Middle East and live in
a world at peace.
Tuesday, 4 days from now, will be a
time for you to make a decision. Do you
want to continue an increase in jobs in
our country, to control inflation, to deal
with the bureaucracy, to have a better life
for farmers, to cut down the Federal de-
ficit, improve education, housing, high-
ways, strong defense, human rights,
peace? If so, don't leave those responsi-
bilities to me or to those who seek public
office. Share those responsibilities with us.
There is no reason why every one of you
in the next 4 days cannot become in effect,
as I said, a campaign manager for candi-
dates in whom you have confidence.
Coming to this rally this afternoon is
appreciated. It shows your interest in the
future of Michigan, in the future of our
country. But if you don't vote Tuesday
and if you don't encourage your relatives,
your neighbors, and those who will lis-
ten to your voice to vote, then by default
you have let your Nation down.
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 2, 1978
Senator Stevenson, Congressman Mikva,
Alex Seith, Mike Bakalis, distinguished
Democrats who will be elected Tuesday if
you will help them, supporters of one of
the finest Congressmen I have ever
known:
I'm glad to be back in the 10th District.
I might say that every aspect of a Pres-
ident's life is not pleasant. It's not easy.
Sometimes decisions have to be ap-
proached with a great deal of trepidation
and caution. Sometimes there are discour-
agements. Since the Camp David negotia-
tions began, I've not taken any time off.
I've been working on the weekends and
also during the week.
One good thing about a President is
that I can set priorities for myself. I can do
what I think is the most important thing
for the Nation that I love. And the most
important thing to me at this moment is
to see Abner Mikva return to Congress
next year.
It's not an accident that many knowl-
edgeable and distinguished Democrats
come into this district to add their voice
1936
