Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
I think some of the most sacrificial and
dedicated workers that I know of in the
country are those who work for the Gov-
ernment. I'm not just talking about in the
White House but other places as well.
They are people who have offered their
whole life's career to serving others.
But we had kind of a disgrace in the
civil service system. And now the Congress
has reformed the civil service for the first
time in 95 years, and we are letting good,
dedicated, competent, hard-working em-
ployees in the future be recognized and re-
warded—and those who don't work quite
so hard, we're going to inspire them to do
a little bit better. If they don't, they're
going to be transferred. If they don't im-
prove, they'll be discharged.
And now managers can manage. But
we're trying to put into our Government
itself the same sort of fiscal management
that has epitomized the successful ele-
ments of a free enterprise system.
I might say in passing that we're try-
ing to make the free enterprise system bet-
ter, a little bit more free. I think if you
all would think back in the last few years,
any of you who have flown in a com-
mercial airline, you know that the rates
have dropped tremendously. And you
know why that's happened? Because we
have gotten a Government regulatory
agency to let the airlines compete with
each other. In other words, we have got-
ten Government's nose out of the people's
business and the rates have gone down;
those empty airplanes have started filling
up. It doesn't cost as much to haul one
passenger, and the airlines are making
more profit. And this is a very excellent
example of what we are trying to do in
Washington.
Well, I could go on and on. But I do
want to mention two more things before
I close. One is in foreign affairs.
I think all of us realize that 2 years ago,
3 years ago, the American people were
disheartened, we were embarrassed, we
were alienated from our Government.
Sometimes we Americans were even
ashamed of our own Government. The
Vietnam war, the CIA revelations, the
Watergate scandals, all made us feel that
our country was not quite so clean, not
quite so decent, not quite so honest, not
quite so open as it ought to be. But we've
turned that around as best we could. No
one's perfect.
We've not only tried to bring that kind
of attitude to government, we've also
raised high a banner for the world to
see of the principles and ideals on which
American life has been founded for the
last 200 years. And there's not a single
leader in the world among 150 nations
who doesn't think every day now about
basic human rights. And as long as I'm in
the White House, they're going to keep on
thinking about that.
And the last thing I want to mention is
this: We are a strong people. We're a
people who have never been afraid of a
challenge. We don't like to be pushed
around. We have the strongest military
strength in the world. We're going to keep
it that way.
But we also believe in peace. And I
thank God that since I've been in the
White House, we've not had a single
American soldier shed blood in a foreign
country. And I hope I can go out of office
having maintained that record of peace
built on strength, not just for ourselves,
but we are trying every day, through the
most intense, concerted effort, to bring
peace to others around the world who
have been suffering more than we have.
Cy Vance just left South Africa a few
days ago, 2 days go, where he's trying to
make sure that Namibia doesn't erupt
into war, trying to bring peace to Rho-
desia. He's negotiating today in Moscow
to have concluded a good SALT agree-
1817
