Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 12
management. This bill will go a long way
toward resolving that problem.
It establishes 12 Inspectors General who
will be within the agencies involved, the
12 major agencies. They will be appointed
by me. They will be confirmed by the Sen-
ate. They will come under the Hatch Act
to prevent any politicization of the func-
tions. They will make their reports to the
Attorney General if law violations are in-
volved. They'll make frequent, periodic
reports to the head of the agency. They'll
make reports to the Congress.
When they make a report directly to
the Congress, the head of the agency can-
not modify that report in any way. The
head of the agency can append comments.
These Inspectors General will be re-
sponsible for auditing, and they will be
responsible for investigating any allega-
tions of fraud or mismanagement.
In addition, there is a provision in the
bill that protects whistleblowers. If some-
one comes from within the agency, meets
with the Inspector General, reports some-
thing that's a violation of the law or an
example of gross mismanagement or
waste, the Inspector General has the au-
thority to protect the identity of that
per-
son, if that person so requests, to make
sure that there is no punishment inflicted
on that person who brings attention to the
public of mismanagement or fraud.
One thing that I would like to add is
that this has been a very good, cooperative
effort. The agencies involved have agreed
that the Inspectors General should be
added to their departments. I have co-
operated completely with the Members of
the House and Senate, and I think the
men behind me-especially, as I say,
Chairman Brooks, who's been the main
one to negotiate with me, L. H. Fountain,
and 12 others who originated the bill—
deserve an awful lot of credit.
The House and Senate have worked in
cooperation, too. And I particularly want
to congratulate, again, Senator Eagleton
and Senator Ribicoff and others.
It's very important for us to put this
bill into effect as rapidly as possible, and
the responsibility of mine is to choose
people for Inspectors General who will be
both competent and whose integrity is un-
questioned.
So, I'm very grateful that we have this
chance to protect the taxpayer's dollar, to
root out corruption, fraud, waste, misman-
agement in the most effective and enthusi-
astic fashion. It's with a great deal of
pleasure that I sign into law House bill
8588, to establish Inspectors General in 12
departments in Federal Government.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Mr. Chairman, I'm glad you arrived. I
said all the good things about you before
you got here.
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. Well, you
did a beautiful job on the legislation,
really, because you followed it and knew
what it was about. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm very proud.
Thank you very much, Lawton.
As you all know, Lawton Chiles has
been one of the guiding lights in bringing
about correction of some of the abuses in
the general services agency and other
places where fraud has been apparent.
And my intention is to add at least 100
inspectors and auditors to the general serv-
sible to conclude that investigation effec-
ices agency next year as rapidly as pos-
tively.
Thank you, Lawton, for your good
work.
I might say that this has been a biparti-
san effort, too. Frank Horton and others
here have been very helpful. Chuck Percy,
thank you very much. Joe, good luck, and
thank you very much.
It has been remarkable that the mem-
bers of the Cabinet have cooperated as
well as they have. [Laughter] But I think
1755
