Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 4
the way, from labor-has not been passed
because of the gamut it has to run. It's got
to go through the Health subcommittee
and committee, the Commerce subcom-
mittee and committee, the Ways and
Means subcommittee and committee, the
Rules committee, then to the House floor,
and then to be voted on.
And the special interest groups, the
medical profession and the hospital asso-
ciations, are so intense and effective in
their lobbying effort to protect their enor-
mous and unwarranted profits that they
prevail in the absence of a common Amer-
ican interest.
I am strongly in favor, as you know, of
a comprehensive and universal health in-
surance program for our country. My be-
lief is that it can only be passed if the
Congress and the American public are
convinced that it will work, that it can be
administered, that it will have a net sav-
ing for a given level of health care, com-
pared to what we presently have, and that
overall costs can be controlled.
I would hope that as the proposals are
made for prevention of disease, for more
universal coverage of those who are ill
and need medical care, for further use
of paramedical personnel rather than just
medical doctors themselves, for hospital
cost containment, that I would have the
full support of Members of the Senate
like Senators Nelson and Kennedy, for in-
stance, who would prefer one bill imple-
mented at one time in its totality without
the involvement of the private insurers
and with a price tag that would seem to
be very high, although the net cost above
and beyond what we are going to spend
might be still to be determined and be
in doubt.
I think my approach is a better one, and
on most of the elements of our proposal,
Senator Kennedy and, I think, UAW
were both in agreement. But it's just a
matter of political judgment. I doubt that
you could find any appreciable portion of
the Members of the House or Senate who
would favor a single proposal, imple-
mental all at once, with a substantial
price tag on it.
You can find pretty broad support,
which is increasing, I think, for the type
of complete concept, but sequential im-
plementation program that we propose.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, your administration
has made substantial progress in reducing
unemployment. In the past few months
the rate seems to have stagnated a little
bit. Are you afraid that the tight money,
high interest rate policies of the Federal
Reserve might lead to a further increase
in the unemployment rate in the near
future?
THE PRESIDENT. That's always a possi-
bility. So far, we don't have any evidence
of that. For instance, just to give you one
example, housing construction is quite
often the first industry to be affected ad-
versely by higher interest rates. We've
been able to sustain housing construction
throughout the last 12 months or more
at an annual rate of production of more
than 2 million units per year.
The reduction in unemployment rate
among construction workers-which I've
already mentioned-is another direct in-
dication of this sustained growth and high
demand for housing. I would prefer lower
interest rates, but obviously you have to
have an honoring of the independence of
the Federal Reserve. That's built into law.
and it can't be breached.
I don't believe that the present Chair-
man of the Federal Reserve has any sub-
stantial difference in philosophy than my
own about the proper balancing of infla-
tion control and keeping full employment
in our country.
1493
