Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 19
Americans had lost confidence in what
our Government stood for: the Vietnam
war, the Watergate tragedy, the CIA rev-
elations, and other things had induced the
American people to feel that our country
was not clean enough, it wasn't decent
enough.
We didn't raise a banner high, around
which people could rally and of which
people could be proud. But now I think
we've committed ourselves on a world-
wide basis to try to exemplify in our for-
eign dealings what Americans feel in our
own hearts.
We're not supporting every tinhorn
dictatorship around the world any more.
And we have let people know that our
protection, our support, our enhancement
of basic human rights, in which we believe
in America, is also a burning, intense,
permanent belief around the world. And
as long as I'm President, the United States
will be identified in the minds and hearts
of people everywhere as the Nation that
stands irrevocably and permanently for
basic human rights. It's an important
thing; it'll be maintained.
And the last thing that I'd like to men-
tion is something that we've already cov-
ered, and that is peace throughout the
world. We've been fortunate in the last
2 years. Not a single American service per-
son has shed blood in any conflict any-
where on Earth. I hope that I can go out
of office at the end of my service having
maintained that record.
But we're also trying to use our good
offices to bring an end to bloodshed in
other parts of the world: in the Middle
East, with a permanent peace there for
the first time in history; in Lebanon. Sec-
retary Vance left Pretoria, South Africa,
this morning, having tried to put together
an end to the potential bloodshed and
dispute in Namibia. We've been working
on the problems in Rhodesia. He's on the
way to the Soviet Union this afternoon to
continue his discussions on SALT. War-
ren Christopher, Deputy Secretary of
State, left at 3 o'clock this afternoon, going
to Greece. And we hope we can finally
bring some resolution of the problems be-
tween Greece and Turkey and the Cypri-
ots who have suffered so much on Cyprus.
So, we're trying as best we can to rep-
resent what you want our Nation to be,
what all of us want the Democratic Party
to be; but you can help us accomplish, if
you are part of it, because as I said during
the campaign many times, we want a gov-
ernment that's as good and honest and de-
cent and compassionate and competent as
the American people.
And this is the kind of government
that we're trying to achieve in Washing-
ton. It's the kind of government that I
know that Harry Hughes will achieve in
Annapolis for Maryland, beginning next
year, with your help.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:20 p.m. at the
Baltimore Civic Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Rosalie Abrams, chairperson of
the Maryland Democratic Party, Louis Gold-
stein, Democratic candidate for Maryland
comptroller, and Steven Sachs, Democratic
candidate for Maryland attorney general.
Veto of United States
Aquaculture Bill
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 9370.
October 18, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I have withheld approval from H.R.
9370, "A bill to establish new Federal
programs and assistance for the develop-
ment of aquaculture in the United
States."
While the underlying purpose of the
bill-development of an active aquacul-
ture industry is sound, I am concerned
1799
