Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 23
was meeting with the Egyptian delega-
tion-making good progress each time we
met. But the outcome is not assured, and
we still need the hopes and the prayers
of the people of this country to realize a
final peace treaty between Egypt and
Israel in the next few weeks.
And I ask you to remember that in
the past, the successes that we have
achieved in all these areas of a troubled
world have only been possible because I
don't speak with an isolated, hollow
voice. We have not tried to evolve foreign
policy in a secret, closed closet.
We have put forward the principles
of negotiation and a frank description of
the problems so that you could become
involved in assessing those problems and
helping me to find solutions. Sometimes
this has not been a popular nor an easy
process. But there is no doubt that when
Fritz Mondale or I meet with a foreign
leader-Begin, Sadat, or others—they
know that we don't speak idly, that we
speak because the Congress gives us its
backing and because the people of the
United States, more than 200 million of
you, are involved in the process as full
partners.
So, I believe that our Government now
has become more competent. It has not
lost its attitude of compassion and con-
cern. And we have become the epitome
for many in our search for peace through
strength.
My closing message to you tonight is
this: You've made a great investment in
the DFL. You've made a great invest-
ment in having an exemplary State gov-
ernment. You've made a great investment
in sending distinguished leaders to Wash-
ington. And I urge you during the next
3 weeks to commit yourselves to an extra
commitment, an extra effort, even sacri-
ficial in nature, to overcome differences
among you and to have the full Demo-
cratic slate elected in November, to give
me strength to make our Nation even
stronger.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. in
the Minneapolis Auditorium Arena. In his
opening remarks, he referred to John C. White,
Democratic National Committee chairman,
and Ulric Scott, State Democratic-Farmer-
Labor chairman.
National Productivity Council
Executive Order 12089. October 23, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to provide
for coordinated and effective Federal pro-
grams to improve productivity in the pub-
lic and private sectors, it is hereby ordered
as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Council.
1-101. There is established the National
Productivity Council.
1-102. The Council will be composed
of the heads of the following agencies, or
a designated representative, and such
others as the President may designate:
(a) Department of the Treasury.
(b) Department of Commerce.
(c) Department of Labor.
(d) Office of the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations.
(e) Council of Economic Advisers.
(f) Office of Management and
Budget.
(g) Office of Science and Technology
Policy.
(h) Council on Environmental Qual-
ity.
(i) Civil Service Commission, and
(j) Council on Wage and
and Price
Stability.
1833
