Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 10
opment, the Secretary of Interior, the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Transportation, the Director, Community
Services Administration, the Administra-
tor, Environmental Protection Agency, the
Administrator of General Services, the
Administrator, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the Administrator,
Small Business Administration, the Ad-
ministrator of Veterans Affairs
Subject: Implementation of the Inspector
General Act
One of the highest priorities of my Ad-
ministration is the detection and preven-
tion of fraud, waste, and inefficiency in
the operation of Federal programs. As
you know, I take very seriously our obli-
gation to conduct the public's business
with the utmost integrity.
On October 12 I signed a bill establish-
ing Offices of Inspectors General in each
of your departments and agencies. It
places under these officials virtually all of
your audit and investigative resources. I
would like to select these Inspectors Gen-
eral personally and send their names to
the Senate for confirmation as soon as
possible. Therefore, please suggest at least
three candidates of exceptional integrity
and ability to me without delay. I will
also seek the names of potential ap-
pointees from other sources.
I also want to ensure an early, well-
coordinated effort to establish the new
offices. I am therefore asking Jim Mc-
Intyre to see which present resources and
functions should be assigned to the new
offices and to set the process up quickly
and efficiently.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on November 10.
National Parks and
Recreation Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 791 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
It is with great pleasure that I sign the
National Parks and Recreation Act of
1978. This bill is the most significant con-
servation legislation to pass the 95th Con-
gress. This new law reaffirms our Nation's
commitment to the preservation of our
heritage, a commitment which strives to
improve the quality of the present by our
dedication to preserving the past and
conserving our historical and natural re-
sources for our children and grandchil-
dren. It honors those who helped to shape
and develop this Nation; it acknowledges
our need to receive strength and suste-
nance from natural beauty; and it ad-
dresses the pressing need to improve rec-
reational opportunities in our urban
areas.
Specifically, this bill:
-Establishes 15 new units in the Na-
tional Park System and authorizes in-
creased land acquisition and other
improvements in numerous existing
units;
-Designates 1,974,005 acres in 8 Na-
tional Parks as wilderness;
-Authorizes $725 million over the next
5 years to renovate recreation facili-
ties in urban areas;
-Establishes 8 new rivers as com-
ponents of the Wild and Scenic Riv-
ers System; and
-Designates 17 new rivers to be stud-
ied for addition to the Wild and
Scenic Rivers System.
Many of the specific items in this act
were included in my 1977 environmental
message to the Congress, and I want to
thank the Congress for moving forward
with these administration proposals. This
bill also includes the administration's
1999
