July 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States Ambassador
to Syria
Nomination of Talcott W. Seelye.
July 11, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Talcott W. Seelye, of
Bethesda, Md., as Ambassador Extra-
ordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Syrian Arab Re-
public. He would replace Richard W.
Murphy, who has been appointed Am-
bassador to the Philippines.
Seelye was born March 6, 1922, in
Lebanon, of American parents. He re-
ceived a B.A. (1947) and LL.D. (1974)
from Amherst College. He served in the
U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946.
Seelye joined the Foreign Service in
1949, and was posted in Stuttgart, Ulm,
Amman, Beirut, and Kuwait. From 1960
to 1964, he was Iraq-Jordan desk officer,
then officer in charge of Arabian Penin-
sula affairs, at the State Department.
In 1964-65 Seelye attended the Na-
tional War College, and from 1965 to
1968, he was Chief of Mission in Jidda.
From 1968 to 1972, he was Country Di-
rector for Lebanon, Jordan, the Syrian
Arab Republic, and Iraq.
From 1972 to 1976, Seelye was Am-
bassador to Tunisia. He was Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of State for African Af-
fairs from 1976 to 1977. In 1976 he also
served as special representative to the
President of Lebanon.
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Western
European and Japanese Reporters.
July 11, 1978
SOVIET DISSIDENTS
ALASTAIR BURNET [ITN, Great Brit-
ain]. Mr. President, on the eve of your go-
ing to Europe, the Russians have put on
trial for his life a man who you say is
innocent. Why do you think they are try-
ing to insult you, and what can you do for
Anatoly Shcharanskiy now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, some people al-
lege that this is an attack on the American
people or our government or on me by
the Soviet Union. I don't look on it in that
way. I think it's an attack on every human
being who lives in the world who believes
in basic human freedom and who's willing
to speak for these freedoms or to fight for
them. The allegation that Shcharanskiy
was a spy for the United States is patently
false. The Soviets know it to be false. They
are prosecuting Shcharanskiy because he
represents an element, a small group in
the Soviet Union who are fighting for the
implementation of international agree-
ments which the Soviets themselves have
signed.
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, the Final Act of the Helsinki
agreements guarantee to citizens within a
country the right to emigrate, to leave
the country, the right to live with their
own family members, the right to speak
freely and even to criticize their own gov-
ernment. These are the things that the
Soviets are attacking in the Shcharanskiy
trial, the Ginzburg trial, the Orlov trial,
and others. We deplore this, the actions
themselves, and the violation of agree-
ments which the Soviets themselves freely
signed.
I don't believe that this trial will arouse
anything throughout the world except
condemnation of the Soviet Union and de-
ploring of this unwarranted action. I don't
think it will still the dissident voices. But
this is not limited to a single person, nor is
it a matter between the Soviet Union and
the United States. It involves the whole
world. And our responsibility, I think,
along with that of other people who are
signers, signatories, of these agreements, is
1252
