Dec. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
nouncements and with wide divergencies
of views expressed by different leaders in
a country, is not conducive to success. And
I'm authorized and directed by the Con-
stitution and my responsibility is to con-
duct negotiations of this kind.
We did not depart from the established
policy of our country that's been extant
since President Nixon went to China in
1972. And I think had we caused a public
debate in our country about all the rami-
fications of the negotiations at the very
time we were trying to conclude these dis-
cussions with the Chinese, it would have
resulted in failure. And our country would
have lost a wonderful opportunity to a
great stride forward and all the benefits
that will be derived from this agreement.
So, I don't have any doubt that what
I did was right and correct. I don't have
any doubts that had we made a public
issue of it, it would have complicated the
issue unnecessarily.
U.S.-TAIWAN DEFENSE TREATY
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, on the
matter of the court challenge, the chal-
lenge is not your right to recognize or to
withdraw recognition of a government,
but of your right to cancel a treaty. Does
that change your view any of the validity
of that challenge?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The treaty is be-
ing terminated in exact conformance with
the terms of the treaty itself. Had I can-
celed the treaty or abrogated the treaty
peremptorily as of the first day of Janu-
ary-which was the Chinese request to us,
or demand from us originally-there
may
have been some justification for that court
challenge. But the treaty provides that
either side can terminate the effectiveness
of the treaty by giving a 1-year notice.
And that's exactly what we are doing with
the people of Taiwan, telling them that
after a year the treaty will no longer be
in effect. It's completely in accordance
with the terms of the treaty itself, Walter.
MR. CRONKITE. Since the Constitution
requires the Senate to approve by a two-
thirds vote the making of a treaty, you
don't feel that there might be an impli-
cation in the Constitution that the same
two-thirds would apply to canceling a
treaty.
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think this gets
into a complicated legal discussion, and
I'm not qualified for it. But as of the 1st
of January, we will have relations with
and acknowledge the nationhood of
China. And Taiwan will no longer be a
nation in the view of our own country.
And whether or not a treaty can exist with
an entity which is no longer a nation is a
legal question in itself. But we have gone
a second mile to protect the integrity of
our own country by extending the terms
of the peace treaty for a full year, even
after we recognize the China Mainland
Government as the Government.
So, I think that we have more than
honored the terms of the treaty, and I see
no basis for a successful court challenge. I
think what we've done is right. It's better
for our country. It's better for the people
of China. It does not hurt the people of
Taiwan. It's good for world peace. I think
we've benefited greatly, and I'm very
proud of it.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
MR. CRONKITE. Can I ask you just one
more real quick one now on the Senate
of the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
MR. CRONKITE. Do you think that put-
ting the Chinese question on the agenda
of the next session of Congress might
2278
