Oct. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
1-103. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget will serve as
Chairman of the Council.
1-2. Functions of the Council.
1-201. The Council will work with
Executive agencies to assure that activi-
ties designed to improve productivity in
the private and public sectors are carried
out in a manner that realizes maximum
benefit from the resources invested. As
part of this responsibility the Council will
identify opportunities for cooperative or
innovative projects to be undertaken by
the agencies, as well as overlapping or
duplicative programs which should be
eliminated.
1-202. The Council will identify is-
sues pertaining to private and public sec-
tor productivity and productivity im-
provement, and will make assignments to
Council members or other Executive
1-302. The Chairman shall be respon-
sible for providing the Council with such
administrative services and support as
may be necessary or appropriate.
1-303. The Chairman may establish
working groups or subcommittees of the
Council. The Chairman may invite rep-
resentatives of nonmember agencies to
participate from time to time in the func-
tions of the Council.
1-304. The Chairman shall report to
the President on the performance of the
Council's functions.
The White House,
October 23, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:45 p.m., October 23, 1978]
agencies for studying and resolving the National Productivity Council
issues.
1-203. The Council will identify ma-
jor policy issues with productivity impli-
cations for consideration by the Presi-
dent, including the need for legislative
initiatives.
1-204. The Council will serve as the
focal point within the Executive Branch
for liaison with elements of the private
sector concerned with improving produc-
tivity, and will seek the advice and assist-
ance of business, labor, and academic
leaders, as well as representatives from
State and local governments and others
concerned with productivity.
1-205. The Council will serve as the
focal point within the Executive Branch
for liaison with organizations of foreign
governments involved in efforts to im-
prove productivity.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1–301. Executive agencies shall coop-
erate with and assist the Council in per-
forming its functions.
Statement on Signing Executive Order 12089.
October 23, 1978
The American people place inflation
at the top of the list of things about which
they are concerned. One of the major
factors fueling inflation is the slowdown
in productivity growth in our country.
Productivity per person-hour has de-
creased from a 3.2 percent annual growth
rate to 1.6 percent in recent years. This
also has a very adverse effect as we com-
pete with other nations whose productiv-
ity growth has been much higher.
Improvement in the growth of produc-
tivity is essential, therefore, to the social
and economic welfare of the American
people. This improvement can be realized
if the public and private sectors work to-
gether to make the best possible use of
technology, capital, and human resources.
The Federal Government can make
major contributions in improving the
utilization of these resources.
1834
