Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the world pass us by. Or perhaps we be-
come so obsessed with our own personal
problems or transient problems that are
temporary in nature that we have no driv-
ing inclination for personal and superb
achievement commensurate with our own
native ability and potential.
I acknowledge as a politician that at-
tacking problems can sometimes be
dangerous. This morning I signed a com-
prehensive energy bill, five major pieces
of legislation, perhaps the most difficult,
complicated, far-reaching that the Con-
gress has considered in its long existence.
There was no political benefit to be de-
rived, because it's highly contentious,
separates from one another producers
from consumers.
The Panama Canal treaties, finally ap-
proved by the Senate, were difficult for
the Members of the Senate to address.
There was no political gain to be derived
from taking a courageous stand to treat
this small country with deference, as a
powerful nation should.
The Mideast questions are some that
we might very well avoid, because any
failure there now or in the future could
redound to the discredit of the leaders
who tried to bring peace.
Inflation, my biggest domestic chal-
lenge of the present and the future
months—there is no way to win, because
when you try to control inflation, control
spending, it's inevitable that you aggra-
vate very fine special interest groups, per-
haps students, perhaps farmers, perhaps
the aged, perhaps some who are unem-
ployed, because there has to be a limit to
Federal spending or a reduction of defi-
cits and a much sounder management of
Government money than has been the case
in the past.
Even when you are successful partial-
ly-in cutting the unemployment rate 25
percent, adding 62 million new jobs, in-
creasing farm income 25 percent in the
last
year, trying to impose economic justice
on our Nation-you still become identi-
fied with not necessarily the solution, but
you've become identified with the remain-
ing portion of the problem.
It's always a mistake to try for univer-
sal approbation, universal approval, be-
cause if you fear making anyone mad,
then you ultimately probe for the lowest
common denominator of human achieve-
ment.
I have found it much more difficult to
be a leader in a time of calm than in a
time of crisis. Leaders are very popular
in a time of crisis, because it's easy to
arouse support for the interests of those
who are concerned with the crisis itself.
But to take action to prevent a future crisis
that can't be easily detected nor proven is
a very difficult task indeed.
Leaders in FFA at the national, State,
or local level, Governors, Presidents, have
a lot of advisers, very valuable. But the
most difficult decisions of all, the toughest
decisions almost invariably, I have found,
must be made alone.
I've also found that the less you know
about a subject, the easier it is to make a
decision about it. When you know the
complexities of a question and have to
balance one set of arguments against an-
other, learn the details of a complicated
issue, it's much more difficult to make a
decision. But if you take a simplistic ap-
proach, only look at the surface of a ques-
tion, one side of an argument, it's indeed
quite easy to make a decision.
I
agree with President Harry Truman,
who said he wished he had economic ad-
visers with only one hand, because they
always say, "On one hand this, and on the
other hand this. Now, Mr. President, you
make the decision."
As a candidate, as a young leader, and
now as President, I've also found that
there is absolutely no substitute for de-
tailed knowledge nor for hard work. I
1996
