Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
tire cost of safety repairs, and that project
beneficiaries pay their fair share of the
costs.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2820 is Public Law 95-
578, approved November 2.
menthal that I was coming to Wall Street
for a rally, and Mike Blumenthal said, "If
there's one thing that Wall Street needs,
it's a rally." This is a tremendous one for
people; it's a tremendous demonstration
of your interest in your own government.
One thing that I'd like to say today is
this: I come here as your President, as
Retirement Pay for Marine Corps President of all the people of our country,
Sergeants Major
Statement on Signing H.R. 10343 Into Law.
November 2, 1978
H.R. 10343 authorizes a change in the
calculation of retirement pay for two re-
tired Marine Corps Sergeants Major, so
that they will be treated in the same man-
ner as all other retired senior enlisted
advisers of the military services. I view the
bill as exceptional private relief legislation
meant to remedy an anomaly in existing
law and as having no precedential value.
On that basis I have decided to approve
the bill.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10343 is Public Law
95-581, approved November 2.
New York City, New York
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 2, 1978
Governor Carey, Senator Moynihan,
Mayor Koch, Lieutenant Governor Krup-
sak, Mario Cuomo, Members of Congress:
Thank you very much, everyone, for
coming out today for a tremendous rally
that is going to prove to the people of the
world that the people of New York care
about your own city, care about your own
State, and care about this Nation by vot-
ing on November 7. Will you do that?
[Applause] Thank you very much.
Last week I made a speech about infla-
tion. And the next day I told Mike Blu-
Democrats and Republicans. One thing
that has been of great concern to me in
the past is the tremendous decrease in the
number of people who care enough about
our Nation to vote on election day. In
1960 two-thirds of the people of our coun-
try voted. Recent elections have shown
that two-thirds of the people of our Na-
tion do not vote. We live in trying times,
times when public servants who are elect-
ed by you need to know that you care
about our country.
I'd like for you to think back, just for a
few minutes, 2 or 3 years ago when I first
came to New York State, to New York
City, to campaign for President. Your city
was in a state of crisis. Bankruptcy was
the immedate prospect for you all. When
I walked the streets of your city, there was
an attitude of despair; the spirit of New
York was lost.
But things have changed under the dy-
namic leadership of a courageous man-
Governor Hugh Carey. He's a man who
knows how to form and to use a team
based on the principles of American de-
mocracy. Working with Pat Moynihan
and the congressional delegation from
New York, working with Mayor Beame
and now Ed Koch, Hugh Carey has let me
know, as President, what I could do to
help your city and to help your State.
Shortly after the election in 1976, even
before I was inaugurated, Hugh Carey
and your mayor came down to Georgia to
talk to me and to outline in specific terms
what the Congress and the President could
1929
