Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 22
less than one percent ad valorem equiva-
lent to 12.5 percent).
As required by statute, this relief must
be implemented within 15 days of this de-
termination.
The USITC recommended that tariffs
on iron or steel bolts, nuts, and large
screws be increased to 20 percent and
staged down to 10 percent (except for
lag screws where the tariff would revert
to its current level of 12.5 percent) over a
five-year period.
I have determined that the USITC
remedy would not be an appropriate rem-
edy for a number of reasons. The USITC
remedy would substantially increase the
cost of ferrous fasteners to U.S. consum-
ers, thereby adding to inflationary pres-
sures in the U.S. economy. Due to its
shorter duration (three years versus five
years as recommended by the USITC)
and smaller tariff increases (15 percent
versus 20 percent), the remedy I will pro-
claim will have a smaller inflationary im-
pact on the U.S. economy, while still
providing meaningful and necessary relief
to the domestic fastener industry.
Given the recent increases in the prices
of imported fasteners, the USITC rem-
edy would be overly restrictive on the for-
eign countries that supply fasteners to the
U.S. market. The smaller tariff increases
that I will proclaim will mitigate the ad-
verse impact of providing import relief on
foreign suppliers of fasteners and on U.S.
international economic interests.
The tariff increase remedy I have
chosen should enable many domestically
produced fasteners to be competitively
priced relative to imports. Thus, imple-
mentation of this remedy should prevent
further erosion of domestic fastener pro-
duction, shipments, and employment and
allow domestic producers to increase their
share of the U.S. fastener market by
using currently idle capacity.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:36 a.m., December 26, 1978]
Atlanta, Georgia
Informal Exchange With Reporters Following
a Visit With Judy Carter. December 22, 1978
Q. What do you think of your grand-
daughter, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's a beautiful
granddaughter,
granddaughter, and we can't possibly
have a better Christmas present.
Q. How do you feel, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel better.
Q. Do you?
THE PRESIDENT. Yeah.
Q. How are the SALT talks going, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're making
good progress. There's still a couple of
items that have not yet been resolved-I
talked to Secretary Vance this afternoon.
But we still have good hopes that we'll
be successful.
Q. Mr. President, do you have plans to
come back to Georgia to speak to the
General Assembly during the session?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe so, yes. It
hasn't been firmed up yet, but that's a
good prospect.
Q. Could there be a SALT announce-
ment tomorrow, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you any
time schedule, because we don't know how
we'll work out the differences. But I
2285
