July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
defense of Western Europe will lessen our
alertness or lessen our commitment to
make this our first priority. We consider
an attack on the territory or people of
Western Europe to be exactly the same as
an attack would be on the territory or the
people of the United States of America.
GERMAN REUNIFICATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Petra
Berndt. I'm a student here in Berlin. My
question, Mr. President, is as follows:
What did you mean or intend, Mr. Presi-
dent, when you said that the German na-
tion had a claim and right for reunifica-
tion, and how can your administration
really afford to be interested in German
reunification?
THE PRESIDENT. The constant com-
mitment of the Western Allies ever since
the NATO organization was formed, ever
since the Second World War was over, is
for the reunification of Germany, based
upon the self-determination of the Ger-
man people yourselves. And this is a com-
mitment that I believe ought to be main-
tained and an ultimate hope that should
be carefully preserved.
We are not trying to impose our will
upon the German people. But when the
German people approach the time of
making a decision for yourselves that
Germany should be reunited and Berlin
again be the capital of a unified Germany,
we would certainly welcome that time, and
we look forward to it with our prayers
and our constant hope.
EASTERN SECTOR OF BERLIN
Q. Mr. President, my name is Hans-
Dieter Robel. I am a civil engineer. I
would like to ask my personal question,
but I would like to defer and ask a ques-
tion which friends in East Berlin have
asked me to put to you, Mr. President.
The U.S. carries responsibility for all of
Berlin. Could you not, Mr. President,
when
you come back to Berlin, also visit
the eastern sector?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would like
very much to do that. The last time I was
in Berlin, I did visit both west and east-
ern sectors. And this is something that I
would like to do in the future.
As you know, the visiting rights in both
sides of Berlin are guaranteed by the or-
iginal agreements and also by the Quad-
ripartite Agreement. And when I return
to Berlin, I'll try to arrange my schedule
to visit the eastern sector as well.
BERLIN'S ROLE IN THE WORLD
Q. Mr. President, I'm Gudrun
Hollfelder, a housewife. My question
is: What do you wish the Berliners to do
and what contributions can we render to
realize your political ambitions, Mr.
President, in the world?
THE PRESIDENT. My belief is that the
citizens of Berlin, both east and west,
share ultimate hopes, together with my-
self, with Mr. Brezhnev, Chancellor
Schmidt, and other world leaders, that
is, for peace, for a broadening of the co-
operation that must exist between the
major powers and those who live within
this troubled region of the world.
In addition to that area where we
agree, there are some areas of disagree-
ment. The Western democracies believe
very deeply in human freedom, the chance
for each person to make one's own de-
cision, to choose one's own government,
to criticize one's own government when
it betrays our trust or does not live
up to
our expectations.
We also believe in basic human rights,
that someone should have a chance to
emigrate if they choose, to rejoin one's
family if one chooses, and to speak out
without constraint even in the criticism
of one's own government policies.
1298
