Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Virgin Islands to offset the local revenue
losses during calendar years 1978 through
1982 caused by the Revenue Act of 1978.
Because income taxes paid by terri-
torial residents to the governments of
Guam and the Virgin Islands are based
on the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, tax
changes intended to reduce Federal in-
come tax liabilities in the United States
have a corresponding effect in reducing
territorial tax liabilities. H.R. 13719
would have authorized direct grants to
the territories to offset revenue losses as-
sociated with the 1978 tax Act.
While recognizing the defects in the
current territorial tax structures which
H.R. 13719 was designed to alleviate, par-
ticularly the effects of periodic Federal
tax reductions on local revenues, I do
not believe the bill provides an acceptable
long-range solution. By replacing reason-
able local tax efforts with direct Federal
payments, the bill is simply another at-
tempt to manage territorial deficits with-
out addressing the underlying economic
and financial problems which have led to
those deficits. We can no longer afford a
piecemeal approach to the growing reve-
nue problems of the territories.
Accordingly, although I am disapprov-
ing H.R. 13719, I am directing the Secre-
taries of the Interior and the Treasury
to study the financial situation of both the
Virgin Islands and Guam and to recom-
mend a plan designed to help those gov-
ernments achieve a higher degree of fi-
nancial stability without perpetuating a
piecemeal system which is costly to the
Federal government and which does not
sufficiently encourage responsible finan-
cial management in these territories.
JIMMY CARTER
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
Memorandum From the President.
November 8, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
On October 13, I signed the Civil Serv-
ice Reform Act of 1978. The Reform Act
provides us with the tools to make major
changes in the management of our gov-
ernment. However, the Act will not cause
those changes to occur automatically. In
very large part, our success will depend
on your efforts to implement the Act's
purposes vigorously and effectively.
As you know, I gave a great deal of
personal attention to developing the re-
form legislation and supporting it in Con-
gress. When I signed the bill at the
White House, I publicly pledged “to im-
plement the civil service reforms with
efficiency and dispatch." I intend to give
the same close personal attention to im-
plementing the Reform Act as I did to
its development and passage. To assist
I am asking Scotty Campbell, Chair-
man of the Civil Service Commission, to
meet with each of you as soon as possible
to review implementation objectives and
needs. We must start immediately in
translating the statutory mandate into
reality.
me,
Let me call your attention to some of
the major features of the Reform Act that
I believe offer significant prospects for
improving the way we carry out the re-
sponsibilities with which we are charged.
The Act:
-Creates a Senior Executive Service
as a government-wide corps of more
than 8,000 top executives to manage
Federal programs of all types.
1972
