July 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
although law enforcement is basically a
local responsibility, that there's both a
symbolic and a real role for the Federal
Government to work with local communi-
ties to provide for safer communities for
the people that live in the cities, the subur-
ban areas, and the rural communities of
this country.
Thank you.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. I'm pleased
to present Chairman Rodino, a great
American, one that's done as much for the
administration of justice in the impeach-
ment process and many other ways-
[laughter] as anyone I know. He's been a
great friend and supporter of mine since
I've been here.
REPRESENTATIVE RODINO. Thank you
very much, Judge Bell, Mr. President,
Madam Secretary, my colleagues, and
friends.
Mr. President, I suppose if I don't make
this short, I'm going to be charged with
some kind of a crime, this tremendous
heat we're under here. But I do want to
tell you, Mr. President, that your admin-
istration is to be applauded for having
undertaken a real review, an intense
study of LEAA and the total problem of
crime. I think we understand-and I
know that this understanding comes as the
result of many consultations on the part
of the Attorney General, members of your
administration, and other interested
people that we can't really successfully
fight crime or really understand the
causes of crime until we get the people
involved. And I think that this bill, this
proposal, certainly aims to do that.
First of all, it's a restructuring of LEAA.
And being called the Justice Improve-
ment Act of 1978, I think, is a hopeful
sign, because I think that is what it's going
to be. The innovative features of the Na-
tional Institute of Justice for the pur-
poses of doing tremendous amount of re-
search-so that the States which have
principal responsibility may be given the
kinds of information that may set up the
kinds of guidelines that will help us to
understand crime, the cause of crime, and
then to prevent it. And the same way with
setting up the Bureau of Statistics, which
I think is important.
I've been in the forefront of this battle
for a long time. The bottom line seems to
be that the people of America, the neigh-
borhoods, the communities, the people,
and the State governments and the Fed-
eral Government ought to recognize that
this indeed won't go away as a problem
until we take this kind of concerted action.
And I believe that we need this kind of
commitment on the part of each of us.
There was talk a long time ago in 1968
of how we were going to successfully wage
this battle against crime, and we've seen
that spending money wasn't the answer
alone. There's got to be a total dedica-
tion, a total commitment. It won't be dol-
lars alone. It's got to be people with
understanding. And the anticrime com-
munity program, the setting up of priori-
ties for those programs that work, remov-
ing some of the redtape, that's all going
to be, I think, in the right direction.
I pledge myself to a total commitment
to helping, because I think that while it
may be one of those areas that seems to
get a low rating when the people of
America are asked what is the problem
that they consider most paramount, none-
theless, I think in the hearts and minds
of most of the people of America is this
question: Why can't we get rid of crime?
Why do we have to be afraid to walk the
streets of America? Why do we have to
be afraid each time to go out as free
citizens?
And I think, Mr. President, that with
Senator Kennedy, with myself—and I'm
introducing the bill today-I think that
along with Bob McClory, the ranking
1244
