Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
come and eat supper with us for one of
her birthday presents.
She wanted to see both his movies and
we wouldn't let her go because she's not
old enough. Amy said, "Well, Daddy, I'd
like to remind you that I'm a preteen-
ager." And I said, "Amy, you've been a
preteenager for a long time, ever since
you were born." And she said, "Yes, but
now I'm a double-digit preteenager."
[Laughter] We don't let people use
"double-digit" around the White House
any more until we get inflation under con-
trol. That's what we're going to do next.
[Laughter]
I've come here tonight to speak to you
briefly about our country from the per-
spective of the President. When I think
back on my own relatively brief political
career, I think in a strange way my life
has been centered around Minnesota.
Those of us who believe in our Nation,
who believe in the highest principles of
public service, who believe in politics in
a decent and clean fashion, who have
never been afraid to address difficult
questions, look upon Minnesota as an ex-
ample for the other states. And we look
upon the dean, the founder of the DFL,
Hubert Humphrey, as an idol through-
out the country.
I've been to Minnesota twice before
this since I've been President. The first
time I stopped in Minneapolis and asked
Senator Humphrey to ride with me on Air
Force One when he returned back to
Washington after a long, sustained treat-
ment for his terminal illness.
On the way back to Washington, I
asked him if he would visit Camp David
with me. He said he had never been there.
And so the following month, Senator
Humphrey and I and his doctor spent the
entire weekend alone at Camp David.
I've never learned more in a briefer
period of time in all my life about people,
about Minnesota, about farmers, about
older citizens, about poor people, about
those who are black or brown or yellow,
who can't speak English well.
I've never learned more about the
proper interrelationship between our
own country and others. He talked to me
about some of the needs of repairing dam-
age that had been done to our country by
the Vietnam war, by the CIA revelations,
by Watergate; how he traveled in many
nations when he was Vice President.
We discussed together the dread that
he felt as a major leader, that I felt as a
Governor, a candidate for President, as
President, every fall when the United Na-
tions General Assembly convened, to
know that the Nation that we loved
would be the butt of every joke and the
target of every attack by the small and the
weak and the new nations of the world;
and how we needed to repair the damage
that had been done to our basic govern-
ment structure.
He talked to me about his love for
Israel, his long relationship with those in
this country who support and strengthen
and sustain that fine young democracy
which has been plagued by war four times
in 30 years. He knew President Sadat. He
knew Prime Minister Begin. He knew the
other leaders of Israel. He taught me
about them, and we compared notes
about what we knew.
And this entire weekend served to
strengthen my commitments to make our
Nation's Government more nearly meet
the standards that Hubert Humphrey set
in his own life, that he helped to estab-
lish in the DFL in Minnesota, that he
helped to bring to Washington in a clean
and a pure and a decent fashion.
And our Nation's better, as you well
know, because he lived and because he
served you and because he served me.
I believe that a government should be
competent. I think it ought to be well or-
ganized. I think the Government should
1830
