Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
strate its concern about inflation, it will
pass hospital cost containment legislation
this year. And if you really care, you will
let Congress know what to do.
Another good example of important
anti-inflation legislation is airline deregu-
lation. One price that has gone down in
the last year is the price of an airline ticket
on overseas flights. That price has gone
down because of policies set by my ap-
pointees to the Civil Aeronautics Board.
We need to let those policies be embedded
in the law so that domestic airline fares
can also be reduced by competition under
the American free enterprise system. The
airline deregulation bill is an important
way to get prices under control.
All of these issues are important. But in
closing, I want to point to one issue more
important than all, by which, no matter
what else it does, the 1978 Congress will
be measured, and that is its action on the
most important and crucial problem, that
of energy.
There is a huge and unchecked hem-
orrhage of American dollars flowing over-
seas, caused by our oil imports. More than
half of American oil now comes from for-
eign countries. Imports are up more than
800 percent in the last 6 years, from $4.7
billion in 1972, to an incredible $42 billion
today.
Oil imports in dollars are almost twice
as great as all agricultural exports. This
hurts our dollars. It costs Americans jobs.
It robs us with unnecessary inflation and
leaves our economy and even our national
security at the mercy of a foreign cartel.
After more than 15 months of discus-
sion, debate, and delay, it is time for Con-
gress to pass a national energy plan. It's
time for the American farmer to be as-
sured of a reliable supply of oil products
and natural gas. And time is running out.
Our Nation will be seriously damaged if
Congress does not act this year to give us
a national energy policy. I have great con-
fidence in the United States Congress, and
we all realize that a good partnership be-
tween the President and the Congress is
necessary if the needs of our country are
to be met.
When the Congress cooperated with
me, with Secretary Bergland, with you
and others, in passing the 1977 farm leg-
islation, we proved that we could work to-
gether to find good solutions to tough
problems. And now that farm bill, as you
can see on your own farm and in your own
family, is beginning to do the job it was
supposed to do.
We must do the same thing with energy,
with civil service reform, with hospital
costs, with airline deregulation, and with
trimming Government spending and con-
trolling the Government bureaucracy.
We must put public interest above spe-
cial interest. Only then can we beat
inflation.
I, as President, need your help as Amer-
ican citizens. I need the help of your
elected representatives. And I need it now.
This is the challenge we face together.
We cannot fail our great Nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. in
the Hearnes Multi-purpose Building at the
University of Missouri.
Following his remarks, the President at-
tended a reception for Missouri State and Mid-
continent Farmers Association officials in the
Hearnes Multi-purpose Building.
Federal Recreation and
Historic Sites in Georgia
and Kansas
Remarks on Signing H.R. 8336 Into Law.
August 15, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. The President of the
United States has many pleasant duties
to perform. But I don't know of any leg-
1424
