Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 16
our children and grandchildren will live
lifetimes in major urban centers. And it's
our responsibility to assure that their qual-
ity of life is not worse in the future, but
is greatly enhanced.
I believe that with this new partner-
ship which we are going to sustain, that
we'll be successful in all these efforts.
Again, let me thank you for being here,
and now I'd like to sign the four Execu-
tive orders.
[At this point, the President signed Executive
Order 12072.]
This is involving Federal space man-
agement directing that Federal buildings
be located in urban areas.
This is Federal procurement in labor
surplus areas where the unemployment
rate is high.
[The President signed Executive Order 12073.]
This one is the analysis of urban and
community impact for actions taken by
Federal agencies, and also decisions made
by the Congress.
[The President signed Executive Order 12074.]
And the last one, of course, is the cre-
ation of the Interagency Coordinating
Council, under the leadership of Jack
Watson, and with your participation.
[The President signed Executive Order 12075.]
CLARENCE M. MITCHELL, JR. Mr. Presi-
dent, I'd like to exercise a little seniority
and say that after 30 years or more around
Washington, this is one of the most mag-
nificent things that I've seen done here.
As a resident who commutes to the city,
commutes to Washington and has been
doing it for a long time, I have seen the
devastating effect in our great cities
where Federal agencies spend millions of
dollars building outside of the city limits
into virgin territory, and it causes tre-
mendous unemployment and dislocation,
everything else. Also, we have seen some
awful things through the years—people
being displaced for highways, dams, and
things of that sort-just because there
wasn't the kind of coordination that you
envision here.
I must say, Mr. President, I don't
think you get credit lots of times for many
of the things that you do. That's why I'm
exercising my seniority here.
THE PRESIDENT. I might interrupt to
say I never have seen a more appropri-
ate exhibition of the use of seniority.
[Laughter]
MR. MITCHELL. I think you're great
anyway, and I think today is another of
a series of climaxes in your career as
President. I think the people ought to
let you know when they think you're do-
ing a good job.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Let me just close by saying, before Pat
Harris takes over and explains some
further details, I really appreciate what
Clarence Mitchell has said. Quite often
not only myself but the members of the
Cabinet, the Congress, the Federal Gov-
ernment, even State and local govern-
ments don't get an adequate recognition
when they do make progress. My wife is
going to be working for the next couple
of years in trying to stimulate additional
private input, aside from government, in
making our urban centers more attrac-
tive.
I believe that if there's one character-
istic that can describe what we have done
and the characteristic of it, it would be to
utilize common sense. We've not had pipe
dreams, we've not put together hastily
constructed, very expensive, doubtful
programs to give the image of progress
when the results might be counterproduc-
tive. We have made sure that they are
practical and effective by letting the pro-
posals evolve, beginning with those who
are supposed to receive services and those
who actually experience problems and
1429
