Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 25
Federal Election Commission
Recess Appointment of John W. McGarry as a
Member. October 25, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of John W. McGarry as a
member of the Federal Election Commis-
sion.
McGarry, 56, was nominated to be a
member of the FEC last April, but his
nomination was not confirmed before the
Senate adjourned. He was special counsel
on elections to the Committee on House
Administration of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives.
McGarry was born June 11, 1922, in
Boston, Mass. He served in the U.S. Navy
during World War II, and after the war
graduated from Holy Cross College and
earned a law degree at Georgetown Law
Center.
From 1959 to 1963, McGarry served as
assistant attorney general of Massachu-
setts. He then combined private law prac-
tice with services as chief counsel for the
Special Committee To Investigate Cam-
paign Expenditures, which was created as
a temporary unit every 2 years until 1972
to oversee House elections.
McGarry served as special counsel on
elections to the Committee on House Ad-
ministration from 1973 to 1978.
United Nations Sponsorship of
Week Devoted to
Disarmament
Statement by the President.
October 25, 1978
October 24 marked the beginning of a
week devoted to fostering the objectives
of disarmament, proclaimed by the
United Nations General Assembly in the
Final Document of the Special Session
on Disarmament last June.
The United States is committed to bal-
anced, effective, and verifiable arms con-
trol and disarmament measures. We are
currently engaged in arms control nego-
tiations of unprecedented scope, with the
goals of reducing the threat of war and
maintaining our national security and
that of our allies. These negotiations in-
clude the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
and talks aimed at a comprehensive ban
on nuclear testing, mutual and balanced
force reductions (MBFR), and a ban on
chemical weapons.
With the support of many other gov-
ernments of the international community,
these efforts give real meaning to Disar-
mament Week. They are an important
contribution to mankind's quest for a
peaceful world.
Veto of Amendments to the
Small Business Act and the
Small Business Investment Act
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 11445.
October 25, 1978
I am withholding my approval of H.R.
11445, omnibus amendments to the Small
Business Act and the Small Business In-
vestment Act. Because I recognize very
personally the needs of the small business
community and the dedication of Con-
gressman Neal Smith and Senator Gay-
lord Nelson, Chairmen of the respective
House and Senate small business commit-
tees, in developing this legislation, it is
with great regret that I must take this
action.
1851
