Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Another problem has been-and this
has been one of the most serious prob-
lems at Camp David we didn't have
daily press briefings, and this was the
agreement when we started here in Wash-
ington, that neither side would make a
direct statement to the press. As you
know, this has not been honored at all,
and it's created enormous additional and
unnecessary problems for us.
MR. MOYERS. You mean leaks from
both governments are-
THE PRESIDENT. Not just leaks. I mean,
almost every day I see interviews in the
national television of at least one of the
sides in the dispute.
And also at Camp David I was work-
ing directly with the heads of state. Here
we work with the negotiators, and the ne-
gotiators then refer their decision back to
the head of state or the cabinet. The cab-
inet reverses themselves, reverses the ne-
gotiators on a language change or one
word, and in effect you get the most rad-
ical members of the governments who
have a major input into the negotiating
process, rather than having the heads of
state there 100 yards away so that they
can resolve those issues once and for all.
So, I think the followup to Camp
David has been much more time-
consuming and much more frustrating
than it was when the three of us were pri-
marily leading the discussions.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. MOYERS. I read that the Camp
David log showed that you spent 272
hours with Sadat and 29 hours with
Begin, and 9 hours alone with Sadat and
6 hours alone with Begin, with no one
else in the room, the way FDR used to
do with Churchill.
you
Do you think that you could resolve
most of these large issues we face if
could just get people in a room like this
and talk to them? It used to be said
Lyndon Johnson could have done much
better had he been able to persuade peo-
ple one on one instead of having to use
television and public speeches. Do you
think that other problems you face could
be resolved if you could meet nose to
nose, in a sense, with the adversaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I couldn't guaran-
tee success, but I think, obviously, the
likelihood of success would be better.
MR. MOYERS. This goes back to some-
thing you said earlier, too, where what
you try to do is never seen in the singular
way in which you're trying to do it, that
you become many things to many people.
How do you resolve those contradictions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's inevita-
ble. The most pressing problem on my
hands, on my shoulders, is not to present
to the people of the world a simplistic
and simple character as a President or as
a person.
The agenda for an average day for me
is incredibly complex, you know, and I
shift from one subject to another-from
domestic affairs to foreign affairs, from
one country to another, from one issue
to another. And there's no way for me to
say
what I did in this one single day in a
few words, so that the complexities are
inevitable. The only thing I know to do
about it is to try to address each item
on its own merits and make a decision
that I think at that time is the best for
my country and my people.
The advantage of having good advis-
ers is very great, and I do have good
advisers. I've been criticized because I
studied details of issues too much, but
that's my nature. And I think on occa-
sion it pays rich dividends, in that I am
able to understand the complexities of
an issue when a final decision has to be
made and not depend entirely on advis-
ers who don't have the knowledge that
I, as President, can have uniquely.
2022
