Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 29, 1978
Asheville, North Carolina
Remarks on Arrival at the Asheville Municipal
Airport. September 22, 1978
Senator Bob Morgan, Governor Jim
Hunt, former Governor Bob Scott, my
good friend Congressman Lamar Gudger,
Congressman Hefner, and Congressman
Mann, Mayor Trantham, Mayor Todd,
Chairman White, Chairman McCain,
many people in the audience who are re-
sponsible for my being President, who
share with me the successes and the
blame:
I'm glad to be back home in North
Carolina-even if I am 1 week late.
[Laughter] It is partially your credit that
we finally ended the Camp David summit
with success, because I was eager to come
back to North Carolina, and I wasn't the
only one who was eager to leave.
[Laughter]
The last day, when everything seemed
to be going wrong, Prime Minister Begin
came up to me and said, "Mr. President,
I promise that Israel will get out of the
Sinai, if you'll let me get out of Camp
David." [Laughter]
It's a good time for all of us in politics
and government. In a person's private life,
there are times of struggle, times of dis-
appointment, times of challenge, times
of failure, times of hope and times of
dreams, times of success and notable
achievement, times of prayer and times
of thanksgiving. And I have felt through-
out the last 20 months, and particularly
the last 2 or 3 weeks, that your prayers
were indeed with me.
We have a great country. It's always a
mistake for us to overemphasize the trans-
ient or rapidly changing problems that we
face. Our country has always been willing
to face great challenges and to overcome
difficulties and to meet difficult challenges
and to answer tough questions. We've not
changed. We still have the same pioneer
spirit that bound us together 200 years
ago, or even earlier.
My people, the Carter family, moved
from North Carolina longer than 200
years ago. And we've always had a kin-
ship with your State and a realization
that there was a role for the individual
human being in a democratic, free society
that could contribute, no matter whether
one had a service station or a peanut
farm or was occupying the White House.
We are party to a team effort and a team
spirit that's not going to stop, not going
to pause. We're going to continue to make
our Nation and to keep our Nation the
greatest one on Earth. You can depend
on that, if I can depend on you.
I'm particularly glad to come here with
Lamar Gudger. Although he is new in
Congress, he's no newer than I am in the
White House [laughter]-and I have
felt particularly close to him. I looked at
a clipping from a local newspaper not too
long ago, and it said that although I had
1575
