Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
of you have a wonderful opportunity to
learn about an exciting subject. And I'm
sure that many of you bring long years
of experience and study to our own rela-
tionships with Latin America and about
that region in general.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
When I came to the White House as
President, I had a longstanding interest in
the nations in this hemisphere to the
south. My wife and I both studied Span-
ish in college, and we had made some
trips to seven or eight of the Latin Ameri-
can countries while I was Governor and
before I became involved in public
affairs.
We tried to learn from past mistakes to
see what achievements had been realized
by Presidents Roosevelt and Johnson,
Kennedy and others who had been suc-
cessful in improving relations with the
southern part of our hemisphere during
their terms of office. We instituted, after
very detailed analyses, some long-range
proposals that we thought were needed
and also well advised. We didn't want to
come out with another special slogan, be-
cause I think one of the most important
elements that has been missing in the past
is the realization that the Latin American
countries and the Latin American people
are individuals.
It would be a mistake for anyone to
look upon Canadians and citizens of Mex-
ico and citizens of the United States as
being a homogeneous group. And the di-
|versity in Latin America, the Caribbean,
is just as wide. So, what we attempted
to do was not only to focus our own atten-
tion on peoples and countries as indi-
viduals but actually to treat them as such
in our public expressions of interest and in
our detailed negotiations with them on
matters of importance to them.
This was spelled out fairly clearly in
some speeches that I made at the Orga-
nization of American States and in my
visits to the countries involved.
We also began to study some of the
problems that still remain from the past.
One of the important concerns that we
had was the rapid escalations in commit-
ments for weapons in South and Central
America, the Caribbean.
We have tried as best we could to put
an absolute lid on proliferation of nuclear
explosives in this hemisphere, other than
those that we ourselves retain for the de-
fense of the hemisphere. The Treaty of
Tlatelolco is one on which we've invested
a great deal of effort. And we are now ap-
proaching the point where all of the Latin
American countries involved, and the
European and Eastern European coun-
tries who have a direct relationship, will
also have espoused this commitment not
to have nuclear weapons be located within
this tremendous and important region of
our world. It'll be the first region if we se-
cure the remaining endorsements of the
treaty-shortly from, perhaps, Argentina.
The effort that was made at Ayacucho
several years ago to restrain the purchase
of conventional weapons has also been
supported by us. President Pérez and I
and others have talked about this at
length. And I believe this is another step
in the right direction.
We've tried to encourage the settle-
ment of boundary disputes, not as an in-
tervener or even a mediator in some
respects, but we've had meetings with
the leaders involved, tried to bring them
together in regional groups, add the serv-
ices of the OAS and the United Nations
on occasion to resolve these disputes by
peaceful means. And I don't know of any
heated dispute at this point anywhere in
our hemisphere concerning boundaries
themselves, unless perhaps it's between us
and Canada on the fisheries disagreement
off the coast of Maine. [Laughter]
1597
