Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 8
Democrats do not believe that govern-
ment should solve every problem or sub-
stitute for private initiative. But I have
seen the power of rural electrification
programs transform the life of a young
farmboy in the rural South. And I know
what it meant to my own people to elimi-
nate typhoid and malaria, polio and
cholera. And I've seen, as has my own
wife, Rosalynn, retarded youngsters come
alive with excitement and pride, learning
new skills because a mental health pro-
gram run by the Government reached out
to them with love.
When government fails to deliver prom-
ised services, when redtape, paperwork,
bureaucratic waste of time and tax dol-
lars, those who suffer most-those who
suffer most—are the ones who depend on
government the most. We are cutting red-
tape, throwing out ridiculous regulations,
reorganizing government, and eliminating
millions of hours of paperwork. We've
breathed new energy and initiative into
the Federal civil service for the first time
in a hundred years. We Democrats are
trying to make government competent so
that it can be truly compassionate, and we
will achieve both those goals together,
competence and compassion.
Those who rob from government with
waste, theft, fraud, abuse, steal precious
resources that could have helped a child
get out of poverty with a head start,
trained an unemployed youngster for a
job, built a decent home for a family, pro-
vided legal services for the poor, or nursed
an older American back to health. The
stolen tax dollars come from every steel-
worker, every store clerk, every teacher,
every farmer. This administration-and
the new Inspectors General will help
will continue to root out every instance of
fraud and theft and abuse, and we will
prosecute the guilty to the full extent of
the law.
For too many years, our free enterprise
system was hobbled by massive unemploy-
ment, inflation, and an energy crisis that
grew worse every year. Harry Truman
spoke for every Democrat when he said,
"We do not propose, like some people, to
meet today's problems by saying that they
do not exist, and tomorrow's problems by
wishing tomorrow would never come."
We have been willing to confront the
difficult and the complicated energy
problem, and we are now getting it under
control. If we join together as a people, I
see an America of the future, strong and
secure and free of the fear of energy short-
ages. I see American genius and technol-
ogy harnessing solar power for millions of
homes and buildings and creating thou-
sands of new jobs. And I see America's
achievements offering new hope to an
energy-starved world.
In the last 2 years, we have created
more than 62 million new jobs, an all-
time record. And we're not through yet.
We've cut unemployment by more than
25 percent. The Republicans say they
favor work, not welfare. But we Demo-
crats have reduced the welfare rolls by
1.3 million Americans, by giving them
new jobs. We have already saved more
than $20 billion in welfare payments and
unemployment compensation. We still
have much more to do. Our Democratic
partnership will continue to put America
back to work.
housing depression, our economy has
After a Republican recession and a
grown 92 percent. Last year we built
2 million new homes. Corporate profits
have increased, in 2 years, 37 percent.
Alben Barkley said, "If you want to live
like a Republican, be sure to vote Demo-
cratic."
A Republican administration squeezed
us farmers the most productive in the
world-by boosting the profits of middle-
men, by embargoing shipments of Amer-
2191
