Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
important weapon in this struggle is the
vigilance and the dedication which we
bring to it. I call on all who work in gov-
ernment to join me in this battle.
The stakes are very high. If we suc-
ceed and I believe we will-we will have
kept faith with the millions of men,
women, and children whose human needs
our society has pledged to meet. And we
will have kept faith with ourselves. For
the ultimate beneficiary of the success of
this effort will be democratic self-govern-
ment in America, this Nation that all of
us love.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:53 p.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel to Federal, State, and local offi-
cials attending the conference.
Federal Public Assistance
Programs
Memorandum From the President.
December 13, 1978
Memorandum for the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, the
Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Labor, the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, the Director,
Community Services Administration
I am directing today that the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
and the Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare initiate a major interdepart-
mental review of the Federal policies and
procedures for determining applicant eli-
gibility for Federal public assistance pro-
grams, including AFDC, SSI, Food
Stamps, Medicaid, employment and train-
ing, social services, and housing assist-
ance.
A substantial part of the costs of ad-
ministering these programs is directly tied
to eligibility determination. Those proce-
dures, because of complexity and dupli-
cation, add to the waste, high error rates,
and fraud which hurt every taxpayer, and
most importantly, penalize and frustrate
those who have legitimate needs.
I hope that this review will produce
recommendations which will lead to more
consistent and less burdensome govern-
ment-wide practices to make the eligibil-
ity determination process simple, under-
standable and efficient. Such improve-
ments could also lead to better quality
services for those who are eligible to re-
ceive them.
All citizens are concerned about making
a bold attack on inefficient and wasteful
government. Equally important to me, is
our ability to assist our needy citizens in a
more responsive and compassionate man-
ner. I know that I can count on your sup-
port in meeting both these objectives.
JIMMY CARTER
Waste, Fraud, and Error in
Government Programs
Memorandum From the President.
December 13, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Steps to Eliminate Waste,
Fraud, and Error in Government Pro-
grams
The resources of this government must
be managed well, free of waste, fraud
and inefficiency. The American people
believe, and I agree, that managing their
tax money is a public trust. That is why I
approved a law establishing Offices of
2233
