Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
I have a question for you.
Mr. President, we have lost three old-
fashioned things—-respect, management,
and cooperation. We no longer have small-
town lifestyles. Everything is deteriorat-
ing, and the youth are going to the cities.
Do you have any community develop-
ment package plans for improving small-
town economics so we could keep our
young people in our towns?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Ms. Ros-
mini. I think you know you mentioned a
subject that's dear to my own heart, the
small towns. I come from Plains, which
has a total population of less than 700,
and we are trying to make sure that in the
allocation of Federal funds for different
projects-highways, schools, health care,
beautification-these needs are met.
I think it's a very serious thing when we
have a barrier built between our large
metropolitan centers and the more rural
areas of our country. I believe it's accurate
to say that in the last year almost, we
have turned the corner in providing
strength in the basically agricultural re-
gions with the new farm bill that went
into effect October 1, 1977, which hap-
pens to be my birthday.
We also have tried to bring together for
the first time in many years the local,
State, and Federal officials who work to-
gether as a team, rather than having them
separated one from another. In the White
House under my top assistant, Jack Wat-
son, we have a continuing mechanism by
which any mayor or county official from
the smallest towns and counties in our
country can come directly to me through
Jack Watson to get needs met.
In the departments, of economic de-
velopment under the Commerce Secre-
tary, Housing and Urban Development,
Health, Education, and Welfare, Labor,
we're trying to make sure that the pro-
grams are not designed specifically for just
the large metropolitan centers. I think
it's very important for us to retain the
strength of our small communities and the
agricultural areas. And since this is where
I came from, and you can rest assured it
will never be ignored as long as I'm
President.
That's a good question.
URBAN RENEWAL
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Mrs. Etta Colbert, and I live in
Aliquippa. I also live in the Logstown
district of Aliquippa.
My question is, since the Logstown
district, or part of it, is being redevel-
oped, and homes and buildings are being
torn down and others are not, I would
just like to know why are some of the
buildings and some of the homes being
torn down and others are left to stand in
a very critical, deplorable condition? And
that's my question. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I wish I
knew the answer about your particular
community, but I don't. I think it might
be good for me to have Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development Department,
Mrs. Pat Harris, contact you directly, if
you don't mind, with a telephone call and
see if she can investigate the exact prob-
lems that cause you concern.
As you know, the basic decisions on
which particular homes or buildings are
torn down and which ones are left stand-
ing have to be, under our own system of
government, a decision made by private
families and also by local government and
State government officials. It's not right
nor proper for the Federal Government
to come in and make a decision about
which houses to tear down or leave. And
I think this is something that must be
done by the local people themselves.
But I'll ask Pat Harris, if you don't
mind, to give you a call directly so that
she can have one of her people look into
the question, since I'm not familiar with
1605
