Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The result would be to weaken our mili-
tary security in several critical areas, par-
ticularly during the next two years, at a
time when we should be strengthening it.
Within the $126.0 billion allocated for
defense, we cannot have both an ade-
quately balanced defense program and
the luxury of an unneeded nuclear-
powered aircraft carrier.
In pushing a nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier into a $126.0 billion defense budg-
et, H.R. 10929 would result in reduction
or elimination of these essential pro-
grams, and a consequent weakening of
our defense posture:
-Weapons and equipment for the
Army. I requested a $1 billion increase
to strengthen our ground forces, particu-
larly our NATO-oriented forces, by pro-
viding more helicopters, combat vehicles
and ammunition for our front-line forces.
Adding the nuclear-powered aircraft car-
rier means eliminating $800 million of
that increase.
-Weapons and equipment for the Air
Force. I requested more funds for airlift,
electronic warfare equipment and elec-
tronically guided ordnance. Adding the
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier means
eliminating $200 million of this increase.
-Readiness funds. It makes no sense
to have military forces if their equipment
is not in condition to fight. I requested an
increase of $1 billion for items which are
not glamorous, but which provide the
immediate fighting capability of our
forces-funds (requiring appropriation
but not prior authorization) for repairs
of weapons, spare parts for vehicles and
aircraft, ship overhauls, training of per-
sonnel, communications, and logistical
support to move equipment to where it
is needed. Adding the nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier means eliminating half of
that increase in fighting capability
some $500 million.
-Research and development. To sus-
tain our position of excellence in a world
of weapons increasingly dependent on
technology, I requested a 3% real growth
in defense research and development.
Adding the nuclear-powered aircraft car-
rier leads to an actual reduction in re-
search and development. The bill also
shifts some R&D funds from high priority
programs to less important ones.
Our Navy has for a decade been mov-
ing in the direction of larger and larger,
more-and-more-costly ships, and fewer of
them. As a consequence our fleet today is
smaller than at any time since 1940. We
need a fleet that includes more vessels
that can perform our Navy's mission but
that are not, as this one would be, so de-
signed as to be prohibitively expensive to
build. The Navy does not need a fifth nu-
clear-powered aircraft carrier. It can
maintain a twelve-carrier fleet and main-
tain the fighting capability it needs from
a conventionally powered carrier, which
I shall request in my budget for next year,
at a saving of $1 billion for that single
ship. Without this kind of discipline and
control of the cost of ships, our Navy will
not long be able to carry out its missions.
For these reasons, I must withhold my
approval from H.R. 10929. I adhere
firmly to my request that the Congress
provide $126.0 billion for defense in Fiscal
Year 1979. But I ask that the Congress
delete the authorization for the nuclear-
powered aircraft carrier, and use that es-
sential $2 billion of that $126.0 billion in-
stead for as many of our programs as
possible from the following critical
areas:
$1 billion for Army and Air Force
equipment-For helicopters, transport
aircraft, combat vehicles, electronic
equipment, ammunition and ordnance
and other weapons and equipment.
1448
