Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 14
The point I want to make to you is that
in our eagerness to set a good example to
inspire the Nation to help us to control
inflation in all its multitudinous and dele-
terious aspects, that the rooting out of
improper practices is the responsibility
not just of the President or Cabinet
Members or the Attorney General. It's
the responsibility of you and all those who
work with you and under you.
And I would hope that you would not
wait until a highly publicized revelation
of improper practices becomes obvious
before you take the initiative on your own
to reexamine even accepted practices that
might not be completely appropriate and
to be sure that any standing practices
that might have been condoned are
reexamined for absolute propriety.
We have a team effort in order to make
our Government more effective and re-
spected, and I know that you will join
in with me in making this possible. Char-
lie Schultze has spoken to you. Alfred
Kahn has spoken to you. The Cabinet
members are on the stage behind me.
The White House staff and others are
eager to cooperate.
The recent elections, I think, have
given a clear message to the Congress, to
Governors, to county and city officials,
that this must be a joint effort to realize
the two principles on which my own par-
ty's success has been predicated; a com-
passion and understanding for those who
need assistance and services on the one
hand, and competence on the other.
We have to get maximum benefit from
every dollar spent, every person employed,
every decision made. Unwarranted Gov-
ernment regulation must be minimized.
The competitive nature of the free enter-
prise system must be enhanced. And I
know that I can count on you to join in
with this effort with other leaders of our
Government to be successful.
I do not intend to fail as President in
making sure that the Government is ef-
ficient, competent, and honest. And I
would like to be sure that a close observa-
tion of how we perform can be a real in-
spiration to our Nation. With you as
partners, a member of the same team, I
have no doubt that we will be successful.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. in
the Interdepartmental Auditorium at the De-
partment of Commerce. Charles L. Schultze,
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advis-
ers, and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the Presi-
dent on Inflation, also participated in the
briefing.
Visit of King Hassan II of
Morocco
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
November 14, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It is indeed a great
honor for me as President of our country
and for the people of the United States
to welcome His Majesty, King Hassan II
of Morocco.
Your Majesty, we are grateful that you
have come to pay us a visit, along with
Crown Prince Sidi Mohammed. This re-
minds us with a great deal of pleasure of
the visit 11 or 12 years ago (21 years),ยน
when you came as Crown Prince with
your own father, the revered King Mo-
hammed V.
It's impossible for the people of the
United States of America to forget the
early days of our own Nation's existence.
Our Declaration of Independence was in
1776. And 1 year later, in 1777, Morocco
recognized our people, our new Govern-
ment as a nation. Your country, Your
Majesty, was the first nation on Earth to
ever give us this diplomatic relation and
ยน Printed in the transcript.
2031
