Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
effectively. We won't do it as the Republi-
cans did by putting people out of work.
We intend to approach inflation by the
realization that there are some things that
Congress can do, some things I can do
administratively, some things that labor
can do, management can do, the average
citizen can do, to reduce the enormous
inflation rates that rob us all.
As you know, the ones who suffer most
are those who live on a fixed income, those
who have very modest savings. It's not
right, it's not fair. It's not compatible
with the ideals and principles of our coun-
try to have people suffer who occupy that
position in our society.
We are trying to do some things in the
Congress. One of the most important, that
I mentioned to the steelworkers a few
minutes ago, is the hospital cost contain-
ment bill. I don't think we're going to be
successful this year in getting it passed be-
cause of the enormous influence of the
lobbyists who are protecting an unwar-
ranted position in American society. Since
1960, hospital costs have gone up more
than 1,000 percent.
Not long ago, Tip O'Neill came back
from a weekend in Boston and brought
me a bill, a hospital bill for one of his
working constituent friends. His little son
had fallen down and driven two or three,
four teeth, I think, up into his upper gum.
The child stayed in the hospital 26 hours.
The bill was $2,330.99.
This is the kind of thing that falls on
people who don't have a friend who hap-
pens to be the Speaker of the House. And
I think there's a time to stir up the con-
sciousness of American people, who know
that there are some things that can be
done to provide equity and fairness in our
society and at the same time remove the
enormous burden of inflation.
Now, what we proposed to the Congress
this year, which was rejected so far, is that
the rate of increase of hospital charges
should be limited to only 50 percent more
than the inflation rate-9 or 10 percent-
after 2 years. Now the increase in hospital
charges are twice the inflation rate. These
are the kind of things we are trying to do.
I think we'll have a successful vote this
week in the Congress on another measure
that we put forward as Democrats, the
airline deregulation bill. Any of you who
fly in our own country or overseas know
that we put forward as Democrats, the
in the last 20 months in the fares that you
have to pay. When I campaigned around
our country for 2 years, I quite often rode
on a large airplane that was only 25 per-
cent filled, or even less. Now those same
airplanes are 75 percent filled, or more.
The fares are cheaper. More people are
flying. The airlines are making more
profit.
That's the kind of thing that the Demo-
crats are doing to demonstrate not only
our fairness but our constructive contribu-
tion to the free enterprise system in
America that we love so much and which
quite often in the past the Republicans
have erroneously claimed was their spe-
cial province. We believe in tough compe-
tition to protect consumers, yes, but to
make sure that those who participate in
the free enterprise system as suppliers also
make a better profit.
For the first time in history, political
history, polling history, last month a Gal-
lup poll showed that twice as many people
now believe that the Democrats are
fiscally responsible as believed the Repub-
licans are fiscally responsible. That's
good reputation to have, and we're going
to keep it.
I've watched this campaign in New Jer-
sey with great attention. It's always easy
for someone to demagog in an election for
an office as important as United States
Senator. We've watched with inter-
1553
