July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
their resources to the Allied Airlift and
sent tens of thousands of gift parcels to
their countrymen here in Berlin.
That was the week when German
Communists visited shops in the western
part of this city and warned the owners
that unless they joined the party, they
would lose their shops when the Western
powers left Berlin. That has never hap-
pened; that will never happen.
And that was the week when the Soviet
Union responded to our demand to end
the blockade with the assertion, and I
quote, "Berlin is in the center of the So-
viet Zone and is part of that Zone." With
the courage of Berliners and the deter-
mination of the people of the West, we
gave the answer: Berlin bleibt frei. Berlin
stays free.
I am sobered but proud to be with you
today at this historic time, to pay my re-
spects to the 78 Americans, Britons, and
Germans who lost their lives in the Air-
lift and who are honored by this simple
but eloquent memorial.
This effort, which it commemorates,
was the beginning of the commitments,
including the Atlantic Alliance, which
have to this day maintained the freedom
and the security of Berlin, the Federal
Republic, Western Europe, and the
United States.
Five American Presidents have upheld
the commitments that Harry Truman
made in those crucial times, and today I
tell you that my Nation still upholds this
commitment to freedom.
I have spent this morning visiting
troops, both German and American, who
are stationed in the Federal Republic as
part of the NATO Alliance. The United
States has 300,000 military personnel in
Europe to guarantee the freedom of this
Continent and our own land.
During my visit to the Federal Repub-
lic, I've seen for myself the strength of the
ties that bind the Federal Republic and
the United States together. And here in
Berlin, the presence of our troops and the
readiness of Tempelhof both bear witness
to our unshakable devotion to the people
of this great city.
Berlin and the Quadripartite Agree-
ment are symbols not only of the values
that can never be compromised nor ne-
gotiated but also of the practical im-
provements that can be achieved by those
who are willing patiently to negotiate.
When the Berlin blockade was lifted in
1949, Governing Mayor Reuter declared
that, ". . . much can be gained by peace-
ful means if one has a clear understand-
ing of what is politically possible and . . .
if one has a firm will politically."
The human benefits that have bright-
ened the lives of Berliners, West and East,
as a result of the 1971 Quadripartite
Agreement are proof of what can be ac-
complished through détente.
Looking back over the years, we can
learn from the experience here in Berlin
the conditions for maintaining freedom
and for reducing international tension by
negotiation.
First, we must be determined to main-
tain our essential interests and objectives.
Among these are the basic human rights
to which the United States is and always
will be committed.
Second, those human beings who are
defended must themselves be committed
to freedom, just as Berliners have so am-
ply proven that you, being free, are com-
mitted to freedom.
Third, we must be willing to under-
stand the perspective of others in the
course of negotiating agreements which
maintain our own interests.
In the 30 years that have elapsed since
this Airlift began, Berliners and Ameri-
cans have grown ever closer together. Ev-
ery American who visits here finds not
only allies in the cause of freedom but
personal friends as well. We have not for-
1294
