Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 23
This Executive order establishes the
National Productivity Council. It will
serve as the mechanism for coordinating
Federal programs which support produc-
tivity improvement in public and private
sectors, and for assuring that maximum
benefit is realized from these programs. It
will be the focal point in the executive
branch for productivity efforts, supersed-
ing the National Center for Productivity
and local governments and others con-
cerned with productivity improvement. I
believe that through a cooperative effort
we will be able to increase productivity
growth and make a significant contribu-
tion to controlling inflation and improv-
ing the state of our economy.
and Quality of Working Life, whose National Productivity Council
authorization expired at the end of this
last fiscal year.
Members of the Council will include
those departments and agencies with
significant responsibilities related to pro-
ductivity improvement in the private and
public sectors—the Departments of Com-
merce, Labor, and the Treasury, and the
Civil Service Commission-and those
agencies with a special interest in produc-
tivity improvement--the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers, Council on Environmen-
tal Quality, Council on Wage and Price
Stability, Office of Management and
Budget, Office of Science and Technology
Policy, and Office of the Special Repre-
sentative for Trade Negotiations. The Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget will serve as Chairman of the
Council.
As its first item of business I will be
asking the Council to undertake several
items of study and research which will
assist in setting priorities and goals for
Federal productivity efforts during the
next few years. One of the top priority
items of study will be determining the ap-
propriate role of the Federal Government
in supporting the productivity improve-
ment efforts of State and local govern-
ments. In all of these studies the Council
will be seeking advice and assistance from
business, labor, and academic leaders, as
well as from representatives from State
Memorandum From the President.
October 23, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
Subject: Productivity Improvement Pro-
gram
Today I have signed an Executive order
a National Productivity
establishing
Council. I have established this Council
in recognition of the vital role productiv-
ity plays in the Nation's economy by help-
ing control inflation, making U.S. goods
more competitive in world markets, and
increasing the real income of the Ameri-
can worker.
The Council will serve as the focal
point in the executive branch for efforts
to improve productivity in the private and
public sectors of our economy. One of its
major functions will be to assure that
these efforts are themselves carried out
in the most productive fashion.
I would like to highlight the major
responsibilities for improvement that are
assigned by statute to the executive
branch, and identify the departments and
agencies to which I look for leadership in
carrying out these responsibilities:
Technological innovation, including
improved management systems and
production methods-Department of
Commerce;
1835
