Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But I have not yet decided when to
move on the M-X or if to move on the
M-X, what to do about making sure that
our present silo missiles are secure. The
Soviet missiles, as have ours in recent
years, have been improved in their qual-
ity, particularly in their accuracy. And
this makes the one leg of our so-called
triad more vulnerable, that is, the fixed
silo missiles.
We are addressing this question with a
series of analyses, but I've not yet made a
decision on how to do it.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
Q. Mr. President, what do you think
about Richard Nixon beginning to speak
out on the public issues? Could this be-
come a problem for you?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Mr. Nixon has
the same right to speak out as any other
American, and it doesn't cause me any
concern.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, there have been a
number of reports about the problems
that the people who are running your
anti-inflation program have been having,
and we are now being told that the wage
and price guidelines are going to be modi-
fied in some cases. How satisfied are you
at this point with the way the program
has gotten off the ground? And how con-
cerned are you that some of this early
confusion is going to make it more diffi-
cult to get people to comply with it?
THE PRESIDENT. I am satisfied with the
way the anti-inflation program has com-
menced. Alfred Kahn, who is heading up
the entire program, until a week or 10
days ago I've forgotten the exact time—
was completing his service as the Chair-
man of the Civil Aeronautics Board, and
it's only been that brief period where he's
been full-time on the job.
In accordance with the law of our
country, whenever new proposals are pro-
mulgated from an administrative point of
view, as have been the anti-inflation pro-
posals, they have to be published. And
after a certain period of time for requisite
public comment among those who are
most directly affected by a regulation,
then the regulations are made final. The
time for that public comment has not yet
terminated. It won't be until the end of
this week. So, as is always the case, as is
required by law, we are now in the phase
of letting the public and interested groups
respond to the proposals that have been
made.
I might say that we are moving ex-
peditiously on the anti-inflation effort. My
guidelines, expressed to the public in an
evening television address, have not been
modified at all. Obviously, with more than
a thousand different kinds of decisions to
be made, there will be some flexibility.
And the reason for this public discussion,
as I say again, required by law, is to let
special groups that might be affected in an
unanticipated way have an opportunity to
present their case before the regulations
are made final.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON; HUMAN
RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to follow up
on Mr. Sperling's [Godfrey Sperling, Jr.,
Christian Science Monitor] question and
ask a more specific Nixon question, if I
could.
He was at Oxford University today,
and he said of your human rights policy,
quite critically, that it is designed to win
a lot of publicity and votes, but it won't
achieve results. I was wondering if you'd
care to respond to that criticism. And sec-
2098
