Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ness. Employees who use imagination, ini-
tiative, and bold vision will be able to
benefit in ways that they could never do
before. Those who believe in government
the most and who dedicate their careers
to lives of public service have the greatest
stake in making it work.
It's an honor for all of us to do the
people's business. It's time to match this
high purpose with even higher perform-
ance by the President and by all those
who work with me in our Nation's service.
This is a great piece of legislation. Now
all of us—elected officials, appointed offi-
cials, tenured civil servants, newcomers to
public service-have to get busy and make
it work.
Again, let me thank these men and
women in the Congress who have made
it successful and sign this measure with
a great deal of pride and gratification for
their superb achievement.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
I would like to ask a few of the Mem-
bers of Congress to comment briefly.
They've been great allies and partners in
this effort, which was sometimes very
difficult, and I believe the sensitivities of
all those who have been affected by the
legislation and will be in the future have
been adequately addressed.
I'd like to start by calling on Mo Udall
to say just a word, if you will, Mo.
REPRESENTATIVE UDALL. Thank you.
Let me take my 60 seconds to congratulate
everybody, but to throw up a word of cau-
tion. Remember right after the Bay of
Pigs, John Kennedy couldn't find any-
body who had dreamed up this great
episode. [Laughter] And he quoted an old
adage. He said that victory has a thousand
fathers, but defeat is an orphan. And
there are a lot of fathers and mothers of
this legislation around here who deserve
a lot of credit. But I think the job now,
as the President has said, is for all of us
to make it work.
I was in this room 8 years ago with
another President, a great reform called
postal reform [laughter]—you all re-
member that. I was one of the fathers of
it. [Laughter] But we learned-we were
going to have efficient and inexpensive
postal service. And we learned that reform
has
consequences that you
you don't like some-
times, but the best reforms aren't going to
work unless people make them work.
So, it's up to all of us in the Congress to
give the oversight and follow through on
this thing. It's up to Scotty Campbell and
the people in the executive branch and
the President to help make it work. It's up
to all of us.
But I think we've got a good beginning
here, and I have high hopes for this great
reform, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mo.
Chairman Robert Nix.
REPRESENTATIVE NIX. Mr. President, I
would just like to thank the members of
the Post Office and Civil Service Com-
mittee for their dedication in helping to
achieve this great result. And I particu-
larly want to thank Mo Udall and every-
one else who has been a participant in this
great effort. I'm honored and pleased, and
particularly so because I go out of Con-
gress at the end of this session.
THE PRESIDENT. Everyone would agree
that it would have been impossible with-
out bipartisan support. We could not have
done it had the Republican leaders not
joined in in the effort to make our Gov-
ernment more responsible and more effec-
tive.
I'd like to ask Ed Derwinski if he would
say a word.
REPRESENTATIVE DERWINSKI. Thank
you, Mr. President.
We felt that this was a bipartisan
cause, and we are aware of the fact that
our bipartisan effort has had proper influ-
1762
