Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
American Expedition in the
Himalayan Mountains in
Pakistan
Message to Members of the Mountain
Climbing Team. September 20, 1978
The American team's ascension of K2
is an inspiration to all who seek to con-
quer not just the highest pinnacles, but to
master all that is worthy of mastery. K2
was worthy of your efforts, and you proved
worthy of the attempt. I know the people
of the United States, and especially Wash-
ington and California, join me in saluting
you for the skill, courage and stamina ex-
hibited in climbing the mountain that is
second in height only to Everest, and per-
haps second to none in difficulty. We are
especially proud of James Wickwire, Lou
Reichart, John Roskelley and Rick
Ridgway.
Congratulations to all 14 members of
the team that made this achievement pos-
sible. We are gratified for the excellent
support provided by the Pakistani mem-
bers, and thankful that all returned safely
from this historic climb.
JIMMY CARTER
National Guard Day, 1978
Proclamation 4598. September 20, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Three hundred and forty-two years ago,
the First Militia Regiment of the Massa-
chusetts Bay Colony was organized to en-
able the colonists to defend themselves
and their settlement. That step toward
citizen self-defense was the beginning of
our National Guard, the oldest military
organization in the United States.
Over those three centuries, names have
changed-Militia, State Troops, State
Volunteers, and, finally, the National
Guard-but the spirit of the citizen-
soldier has been constant. It is exempli-
fied by those who stand prepared to leave
their civilian occupations, don the uni-
form of their Country, and serve their
States and their Nation when the need
arises.
In time of war, the Guard is always
ready to serve. At King's Mountain, the
Meuse-Argonne, Bataan, Omaha Beach,
and the Iron Triangle, during the Berlin
Airlift and Vietnam, the Guard has served
in every major conflict in which this
country has engaged.
When disaster strikes in time of peace,
the Guard is equally ready to serve as it
has, in recent years, at Johnstown, Texas
City, and in the wake of Hurricane Agnes.
In recognition of the debt of gratitude
owed by the people of the United States
to those who serve as members of the
National Guard, the Congress has author-
ized and requested the President to issue
a proclamation designating October 7,
1978, as National Guard Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, ask all Americans to celebrate Satur-
day, October 7, 1978, as National Guard
Day and to honor the Army and Air Na-
tional Guard of the United States for
service to their communities, to their
States and to their Nation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:36 a.m., September 21, 1978]
1558
