Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
from inflation and not had their suffering
alleviated.
Higher loan levels are permitted for
those families that are just getting started
in agriculture, and for those that have
very low income levels, we provide special
loans at reduced interest rates.
For those that are able, established,
strong economically, but still need loans,
this legislation permits the interest rates
to increase so there will be minimal sub-
sidization of interest rates and that we
might lend the money to farmers under
existing programs more nearly at a level
of the cost of money to the Government
itself.
There's an expanded program for water
and waste disposal which will permit bet-
ter attention by farm families to the prob-
lem of environmental quality.
This is very good legislation. It's fiscally
responsible. It meets the other basic need
of farmers and, in partnership with the
1977 farm legislation, is a major step
additionally to stability and prosperity
among those who produce food and fiber
and the consumers who have to pay for it.
I believe predictability and stability in
farm pricing and farm production is cru-
cial to the consumers of this Nation. And
this legislation will help both the farmers
and those who consume their products. I
want to congratulate the House and Sen-
ate leadership for their far-reaching states-
manship in passing this legislation, their
responsibility to the taxpayers, and I want
to also congratulate Bob Bergland and
others who made it possible for this co-
operative effort to pay such rich dividends
for our country.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Thank you very
much.
REPRESENTATIVE THOMAS S. FOLEY.
Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, ladies
and gentlemen:
As you've said very well, farmers are
principally in need of strong income that
comes from fair prices and expanding
markets. But the credit availability and
opportunity that this bill will provide un-
der your leadership, leadership of your ad-
ministration, is one that will offer many,
many farmers, young farmers as well as
established farmers, a chance to continue
to seek those fair prices and expanded
markets.
I want to say a word, with your permis-
sion, Mr. President, for the work that was
done by the Subcommittee on Conserva-
tion and Credit in the House under the
leadership of Congressman Ed Jones, who
did an outstanding job, and the coopera-
tion of the Department of Agriculture and
the Secretary and all your administration,
and our colleagues in the Senate, that
made this legislation possible.
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, everybody. I'm very proud of this
legislation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:51 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 11504 is Public Law
95-334, approved August 4.
Agricultural Credit Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 11504 Into Law.
August 4, 1978
The Agricultural Credit Act of 1978,
which I am signing today, gives our Na-
tion a second important tool to improve
the incomes of farmers and rural Amer-
icans. This act supplements and comple-
ments the authorities contained in the
Food and Agricultural Act of 1977. That
act, signed last fall, has already led to a
significant improvement in the farm econ-
omy. The prices of most farm commodi-
ties have risen appreciably from their
1376
