Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 10
Republican on our committee, I'm sure
that we're going to give you the kind of
support that the administration needs.
And I think with your appeal to the
people of America, we may be moving
in the right direction.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I mentioned earlier
that we have made, I think, substantial,
detectable, provable progress in almost
every aspect of crime statistics in the last
12 months. The Attorney General has
been trying to contribute to this progress
in recent days. The circuit court judge
ruled that he would not have to go to jail,
which does help in one category of hold-
ing down the crime statistics, and I want
to express my personal congratulations to
Griffin so far on his good progress.
[Laughter]
I think that the next and the last
speaker is indicative or representative of
the effort that all the Cabinet members
have made. Perhaps one of the prime
causes for the reduction in the crime rate
in the last 12 months has been the reduc-
tion in the number of people who are un-
employed. We have almost 2 million
fewer people unemployed now than we
did when this administration took over,
and we've had a net increase of 6.4 mil-
lion jobs, which means that people can
now earn their living rather than turn to
a life of crime for the illegal acquisition
of goods or money.
We have this morning a very important
demonstration in Pat Harris, Secretary of
the Housing and Urban Development
Department, of what can be done in
public housing. A very tiny portion of
public housing in our country has been
the focal point of excessive crime per-
petrated on the residents there. And I
would like to call now on Secretary
Harris to explain in closing what she is
doing as one of the members of the Cab-
inet to help in a concerted, broad-scaled
approach in our country to hold down
the crime rate and to correct this defect
in our democratic society.
Secretary Pat Harris.
SECRETARY HARRIS. Thank you, Mr.
President, Mr. Attorney General, Mem-
bers of the Senate and the House.
The program that we're announcing
today is another example of the way in
which the Carter administration uses
existing resources in an imaginative way
to achieve the goals that the President
has set for his administration.
Since 1937, public housing has housed
the poor of this country, and in most cases
what has been provided is shelter that far
surpasses in quality and in cost what
could otherwise be secured by low-in-
come families. But as the President noted,
we are all aware that there are a few very
large, highly visible urban projects that
have not lived up to our expectations and
conditions in this country.
now represent some of the worst living
You know the names of these places as
well as I do Columbia Point in Boston,
Stella Wright in Newark, Robert Taylor
Homes in Chicago, Hunter's Point in San
Francisco, Carmelitos in Los Angeles,
West Dallas in Dallas. They are a very
small part of the public housing program,
but they account for 100 percent of the
public's negative image of the program.
These problem projects are often breed-
ing grounds for crime, vandalism, delin-
quency, and despair. They are places that
work in, or to raise a family in.
no one here would want to live in, to
The Carter administration is going to
do something about these projects. We
realize how big this challenge is, and we
do not pretend to have all the answers.
What we intend to do is to make a start
that can, over the next 30 months, re-
verse conditions in these projects and
bring a better and safer living environ-
1245
