Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We've had a net increase in the last 20
months of 6 million new jobs in the
United States. We're finding more new
jobs every day. We're going to put the
American people back to work, where
want to be.
you
I'm also concerned about areas like
the ones I mentioned earlier, the Sawyer
Towers, Sawyer Manors, Trevitt Heights.
And I can tell you today that we are giv-
ing, through public housing, $4.3 million
in loans, over $400,000 in grants, to make
those places just as nice in the future as
yours are here.
I believe our country is rich enough. I
believe our people are intelligent enough.
I believe we've got enough team spirit in
our country to give every family a decent
place to live, a good education for the
children, safe streets to walk on, a beauti-
ful place to look at and, also, jobs for our
people and a better life for all. That's
what I believe we can have.
But I have to admit to you that the
Federal Government can't do it all.
You've got to have good support at the
local and State levels. And the main thing
you've got to have is the people them-
selves who live in a community say,
"We
want to make our own area a better place
to live." And once you have a little bit of
beauty somewhere, that beauty can grow,
because if one person sees a house in a
block that's clean and painted, with a
few flowers in the front yard or on the
windowsill, then the next house to it
wants to do the same thing. And folks
start picking up trash on the streets, peo-
ple start being proud of what they've got,
and the first thing you know, everybody
is living in a community that hasn't cost
ings that He's given us. We've got good
land to grow crops to sell all over the
world. We've got factories, steel, coal,
things to make things out of, to sell in the
rest of the world. But the main thing
we've got is people who love peace, people
who are strong, people who control their
own government, people who are com-
mitted to freedom, people who are com-
mitted to equality, people who believe we
can be better even than we are now. And
with that kind of team spirit, a President
of the United States, the Senators who
represent you in Washington, your Con-
gressman, your mayor, and your other of-
ficials can work together to realize those
hopes and dreams that have always made
our country what it is today-the greatest
nation on Earth.
Thank you very much. God bless every
one of you. We're in it together.
Let me have your attention for a mo-
ment. As President of the United States
of America, proud of all of you, grateful
for what you've done, I hereby dedicate
the Mount Vernon Plaza for my credit,
for your credit, and for a better life for
all of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:50 p.m. In
his opening remarks he referred to Dick Celeste,
lieutenant governor and Democratic candidate
for Governor of the State of Ohio, Paul Tipps,
chairman of the Democratic Party in Ohio,
Tom Moody, mayor, and Jerry Hammond,
city councilman of Columbus, Les Brown, Ohio
State representative, Amos Lynch, editor of the
Columbus Call and Post, and Bill Potter, exec-
utive director of the Neighborhood Develop-
ment Corporation of Columbus.
much, but is a much better place to live. Columbus, Ohio
I want to remind you that we do have
a great country. It's great because the
people are great. We're a country that's
strong, getting stronger. The Lord has
blessed us in the United States of Amer-
ica, and we need to take care of the bless-
Remarks at a State Democratic Party
Reception. September 23, 1978
Senator Glenn, Senator Metzenbaum,
Chairman Tipps, Chairman John White,
Lieutenant Governor Dick Celeste, Con-
1620
