Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
I'm glad to be in the Second District
and back in Atlantic City. I didn't carry
all the congressional districts in New
Jersey in the general election in 1976, but
I carried this one. One of the reasons was
that my wife campaigned here instead of
me. [Laughter] And it was one of the few
times during the campaign when I knew
where my wife was, for I saw her picture
on the boardwalk in Atlantic City with an
enormous peanut. And I said, "Well, at
least I know where she was yesterday."
But I am glad to come here to meet
with you and to talk about some impor-
tant things to you, to the people of our Na-
tion, to the Democratic Party, and, I
think, to the world. I don't think I'll fol-
low any prepared text, although I gave
some thought to what I would like to say.
You've showed a sound judgment in the
past in the selection of the wonderful
Democratic officials that have already
been introduced, the sterling group of
Members of Congress that have served
your State, their district, our Nation so
well. And you have an opportunity this
year to return them to office, to elect new
Democrats where Republicans now serve
in the House of Representatives, and to
bring to the United States Senate one of
the finest candidates we have in our whole
country, Bill Bradley. If you will work,
I'll work to get him elected.
I have never served nor lived in Wash-
ington before I was inaugurated Presi-
dent. But I think what the people of our
Nation were searching for was someone
who had derived experience and analysis
and thoughts and ideas, ideals, commit-
ments, hopes, dreams from direct contact
with the American people over a long,
tough, arduous campaign; to bring some
fresh ideas and thoughts to our govern-
ment-the same kind of approach that
Bill Bradley will bring when he arrives in
the United States Senate next January.
And I know that he and I share some
common beliefs, a belief that we can pro-
tect, even enhance the principles that
have made the Democratic Party great;
concern about those who are quite often
deprived of an opportunity in our great
society, those who are poor or without in-
fluence, who are not articulate, who are
not well organized, those who suffer in
different ways, who have not had an ade-
quate education, who don't have a full-
time job, who don't have security, who
don't have wealth, perhaps who don't
have good health.
These are the kinds of people that the
Democratic Party has always reached out
to. And we have brought them into our
own hearts and into our political organi-
zation and made staunch, self-supporting,
independent, proud, American political
leaders out of them. And that's the es-
sence of what the Democratic Party has
as a record for which we can all be proud.
But that's not all of it. The American
people obviously want that. They don't
get it from the other party. But for too
long, we've suffered in the Democratic
Party-particularly in my part of the
country from an erroneous reputation
that we were fiscally irresponsible. This is
not true. And this is an additional part
of Bill Bradley's belief-and I think mine
as well-that we've got to have a govern-
ment organizational structure that doesn't
waste our tax money, that's well orga-
nized, that delivers services efficiently, that
gives dedicated public servants, civil serv-
ants a chance to serve with enthusiasm
and competence.
We have had good support in the Con-
gress for making changes like this. While
I was at Camp David, the House passed,
with only 10 dissenting votes, the civil
service reform bill, for the first time in
a hundred years substantially improving
the mechanism within which dedicated
1551
