July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
At the same time, before we can reach
fully normal relations with the People's
Republic, we would like to strengthen our
bilateral relationships with them. We've
had our Secretary of State go to visit
China, as you know; my National Securi-
ty Adviser has been. We've recently had
a very senior scientific and technological
delegation go. We'd like to increase trade
with the People's Republic, as Japan has
already done. But we see in the future
continued trade and good relationship
with both Taiwan and the Mainland.
We recognize their claim that there is
only one China. We don't intend to get
involved in that, but we will do what we
can to maintain peace and to improve
constantly our relationship with the
People's Republic.
INTERNATIONAL SUMMIT CONFERENCES
MR. BURNET. A final question, Mr.
President. There have been many summit
conferences, and great men have got to-
gether. But do they really produce any-
thing? Do they not just raise false hopes?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think they pro-
duce a lot. It's impossible to compare the
present world situation, following three
And then for us to share problems with
one another in a very frank and unin-
hibited way is also very beneficial. And I
think for the world to know what we do
afterwards through the communiques is
constructive also. And then the last thing
is that we set goals for ourselves to strive
toward. It lets our own people, our own
Congress, our own parliaments know
what we hope to achieve. And I think
the clarity of those goals, whether or not
we achieve them completely, is a very
constructive process.
So, I would say in summary that the
summit conferences are very constructive,
very beneficial to me, to the other leaders,
and I think to the people we represent.
MR. BURNET. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I enjoyed
it.
NOTE: The interview began at 3:03 p.m. in
the Map Room at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast on Western European
and Japanese television.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 12.
summit conferences, with what it would Interview With the President
have been had those summit conferences
not taken place. But I know in my own
case, both I, the Vice President, my whole
Cabinet, all of my economic and political
advisers, my military advisers prepare for
months before I go to an economic sum-
mit conference. We study the particular
perspective of other nations their prob-
lems, their local political circumstances,
their special needs, their plans for the
future, how they interrelate with one an-
other, how our actions might impact posi-
tively or adversely on the people in those
other countries. Just the preparation for
the summit conference itself is a very in-
structive and educational process.
Question-and-Answer Session With West
German Reporters. July 11, 1978
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
PETER MERSEBURGER [ARD Television].
ing political East-West realities. You are
Mr. President, in Berlin you will be fac-
stressing human rights. At the same time
Soviet-American relations are declining.
And in Moscow Shcharanskiy is on trial.
Don't you think that the two principles
are contradicting each other, that human
rights is undermining détente?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we did not ini-
tiate the trial of Mr. Shcharanskiy, and
we did not initiate the commitment to
1258
