Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
benefits and services requiring improve-
ment are ones relating to:
• Disabled Veterans
• Incarcerated Veterans
Readjustment counselling and sub-
stance abuse treatment.
DISABLED VETERANS
Individuals with service-connected dis-
abilities are especially in need of greater
assistance from the government. That is
particularly true for Vietnam-era Veter-
ans, who suffered a 300% greater loss of
lower extremities than Veterans of any
other war. Altogether, 512,000 have sus-
tained some kind of disability.
Our vocational rehabilitation programs
must reflect our paramount concern for
those Veterans who have service-con-
nected disabilities. The current VA
program is based on a 1943 model and re-
quires major updating. I will submit leg-
islation to the next Congress that will
modernize and improve that program.
READJUSTMENT COUNSELING AND
SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT
The frequent image of the Vietnam
Veteran as unbalanced, unstable and
drug-dependent is simply not borne out by
available information. Most Veterans
have adjusted well and the incidence of
drug abuse, although greatly increased
while in service, has for the most part de-
clined to pre-Vietnam levels or lower.
Nevertheless, there is evidence that sug-
gests a significant minority of Vietnam
Veterans have experienced problems of
readjustment which continue even today.
Vietnam-era Veterans under age 34
have a suicide rate 23% higher than non-
Veterans of the same age group. The num-
ber of hospitalized Vietnam-era Veterans
identified as alcoholics or problem drink-
ers more than doubled from 13% in 1970
to 31% in 1977. And, although the drug
abuse problem has declined, Vietnam-era
Veterans account for 39% of all inpatients
and 55% of all outpatients being treated
by the VA for drug dependence problems.
The government is addressing these
concerns, but more must be done:
-The Administration has already pro-
posed legislation which would authorize
psychological readjustment counseling to
Vietnam-era Veterans and their families.
The proposal is aimed at those Veterans
who are not classified as mentally ill but
nevertheless need some kind of counsel-
ing. I urge Congress to enact this proposal
prior to adjournment.
The Administration also requested leg-
islative authority to contract for halfway
houses in the treatment of Vietnam-era
Veterans with substance abuse problems.
This authority, together with the activa-
tion of 20 new VA substance abuse treat-
ment units in this coming fiscal year,
should provide needed resources to treat
those with continuing alcohol and drug
abuse problems.
-Finally, more research needs to be
done into the problems of Vietnam-era
Veterans. I am directing both the Veter-
ans Administration and the National In-
stitute of Mental Health to initiate studies
in this area. A major study contracted for
by the Veterans Administration to be sub-
mitted next year should enable us to
better identify the nature and extent of
problems being experienced by Vietnam-
era Veterans.
INCARCERATED VETERANS
Like Veterans of all wars, a certain
percentage of Vietnam-era Veterans end
up in prison after returning home. Avail-
able data suggest that there are about
29,000 Vietnam-era Veterans in State and
Federal prisons. Many of these Veterans
received discharges which entitle them to
VA benefits. Unfortunately, we lack com-
1741
