Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
give 1 day as an investment in good gov-
ernment in Minnesota, it would pay rich
dividends. There is no reason why every
one of you can't be a focal point for a
campaign organization for Rudy Perpich
to be reelected Governor.
He's done a good job. All of you recog-
nize that. He's brought tough, competent,
down-to-earth, kind of people-to-people
government, which is a continuation of
the tremendous standard that has been set
in the past by Wendy Anderson, by Hu-
bert Humphrey, by Fritz Mondale, [Lieu-
tenant] Governor Olson, and others. And
I think it's very important to you in this
difficult Democratic year in Minnesota,
when two U.S. Senators, the Governor,
all eight Congressmen are at stake, to in-
vest some extra time in their reelection.
And it's not enough for you to come
here tonight and give a substantial or a
modest contribution. I don't think there's
anyone here who can't call 2 or 300 people
who know you, who trust you, who would
listen to your voice, and say, "Vote for
Rudy Perpich on November 7."
Obviously, that includes the entire
DFL slate. But I'm particularly here to
encourage you to help him. It's impor-
tant to me that you do this; it's impor-
tant to your country. He has been suc-
cessful in bringing a combination of
concern and compassion and good gov-
ernment, reduce taxes, a realization on the
part of the Minnesota people that the
State government is in firm hands. And as
you know, he's the kind of person that's
absolutely trustworthy to represent your
interests in the State.
So, I'm asking you, as President of the
United States [laughter]-to work for
him, okay? [Applause] Good deal.
Let me say one other thing. I'm not go-
ing to make a speech, because I'm going
to make one later on, and perhaps some
of you will come in and listen to me then.
But I would like to shake hands with as
many of you as possible. And the only
way I see to do it without causing a tre-
mendous traffic jam is for me to start over
here. And if you would kind of get along
the chain, all the way back to the back
door, I'll reach as far as my hand will
reach.
And every time-if you're going to help
Rudy Perpich, like I asked you, come
shake hands with me. If you are not go-
ing to help him, I'll shake hands with you
later on when you change your mind,
okay? [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:25 p.m. in
the Plaza Room at the Minneapolis Auditor-
ium.
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Remarks at a Democratic-Farmer-Labor
Party Victory Rally. October 21, 1978
Vice President Mondale, Senator Hum-
phrey, Senator Anderson, Congressman
Bruce Vento, Jim Oberstar, Rick Nolan,
next Senator Bob Short-next Senator
Bob Short-Chairman White, Chairman
Scott, Mike Freeman, enthusiastic dele-
gates of the DFL:
This has been a good week for me. In
the first place, last Sunday, the Congress
went home, which was a gracious blessing
to the President. [Laughter]
I was amazed to see the stock market go
down instead of up. [Laughter] My
brother Billy has not been in the news all
week. [Laughter] He has the only gas sta-
tion listed in Fortune 500. [Laughter]
My daughter Amy had a birthday on
the 19th, and she's gotten to be quite a
young lady. She was 3 years old when I
was elected Governor, and she's a very fine
child. We get to see more of her now
than we used to. She had John Travolta
1829
