Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Party. But this is just one example out of
many that I could mention.
The Democratic Party has always been
a party of two things: one, compassion.
We've always been concerned about
people who need help. We've never be-
lieved in handouts, but we do believe in
extending a hand to help someone, to help
people stand on their own feet, support
themselves, make their own decisions, be-
come an integral part of a dynamic
society.
We believe in children having a good
education; young couples having an op-
portunity to buy a home; good highways
to carry our products to market, to let us
visit one another.
We believe in a strong defense. We also
believe that we have to let people be em-
ployed. One of the greatest hungers in
the life of a person is to let that one life,
given by God, be used in a beneficial
way.
I can't think of anything more devastat-
ing to a young man or woman, 18, 19,
20 years old, as they approach adulthood
and begin to take their place in the com-
munity, than not to have a job and day
by day by day be identified in one's own
mind, in one's own family, in one's own
community, as a failure, a nonproductive
member of a great American society.
When I became President, we had 10
million Americans who did not have
a full-time job, 7 million or more who
had no job and who were looking for jobs.
The Democratic Congress worked well
with me. And we set up programs pri-
marily to open up job opportunities in the
private sector, because five out of six of
the jobs in our country don't relate to
government at all.
We've cut the unemployment rate 25
percent in just a short time that we've
been in office. We've had a net increase of
more than 6 million jobs in our country.
This is the kind of approach that I think
is proper for the Democratic Party to
have.
We recognized some longstanding de-
fects. We did not have, as you may have
heard, a comprehensive national energy
policy. And you know I said that it was
the moral equivalent of war. I was begin-
ning to feel it was the moral equivalent of
the Hundred Years War. [Laughter] But
the Congress has now passed a good energy
bill. And it'll be improved by administra-
tive action, and it'll probably be improved
in the future by changes that Congress
might make.
We've got a new Department of Energy
now, and I think we can guarantee to
you here not only a good market for
energy products produced in your State
but an assured supply of reasonably priced
products in the years to come. We'll start
conserving more. We'll start shifting to the
more plentiful supplies of energy, and
we'll have a chance to cut down on the
enormous imports that have bled from our
Nation, about $45 billion per year. We
now import about 50 percent of our total
oil. We want to turn that around.
We've also tried to root out fraud,
mismanagement, waste from the Govern-
ment.
I was concerned when I became Presi-
dent, when I was running for President,
about the enormous budget deficits. It
rubbed me wrong, as someone who's
worked all my life for my own living, to
see the budget deficits in Washington con-
tinue to go up and up and up.
When I was a candidate back in 1976,
the budget deficit was almost $70 billion.
We have already cut that budget deficit
down to just a little above $40 billion,
and we're moving in the right direction.
And I'll keep as one of the major goals
of my own administration a balanced
budget. That's what I want to see while
I'm still in the White House.
1816
