Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
MR. CAMPBELL. May I comment on
that?
I think the new system, by separating
what are now the conflicting roles of the
Civil Service Commission, where it is,
on the one hand, supposed to represent
the management side of the Federal Gov-
ernment, carry out strong managerial
policies while simultaneously protecting
employee rights, has resulted in an in-
ability of it to do its job. And, therefore,
I don't think that this audience would
disagree the Civil Service Commission has
lost substantial credibility.
The change, in my judgment, will end
that, and, indeed, the Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board, with the special counsel,
will provide a monitoring system and an
investigative system which will be far su-
perior to that which we now have, be-
cause that will be its sole function, while
simultaneously, the Office of Personnel
Management will be able to go into agen-
cies and in a consultive service capacity
be able to help them improve their man-
agement, improve productivity, improve
the quality of Federal service.
And may I say that I am sympathetic
with the concern expressed here about
public attitudes toward public employees,
not only Federal but State and local as
well, as represented by Proposition 13,
that it doesn't do us any good to just de-
plore that; we must respond to that by
improving how well we do our jobs, by
improving the quality of service. And I
believe when we do that, the public will
then come to recognize the kind of qual-
ity which in fact, as the President has de-
scribed, does exist in the Federal service.
THE PRESIDENT. That's an excellent
question. Thank you very much, Evan-
geline.
EMPLOYMENT OF MINORITIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gilbert
Sandate. I represent IMAGE, a national
Hispanic organization concerned with
government employment opportunities
for Hispanic Americans and with ade-
quate delivery of services to our Hispanic
communities across the country by our
public institutions. I'd just like to make
one brief observation before my question.
It is disappointing to us to note that out
of the 200,000 Hispanic American citi-
zens that reside in this metropolitan area,
that not one was seen fit to represent us
on this select panel.
My question: Hispanic Americans are
currently under-represented by 100,000
jobs in the Federal sector, if we are to
reach parity with our numbers in the pop-
ulation. Inadequate delivery of services
has cost Hispanic communities millions
of dollars annually. The civil service sys-
tem throughout its history has virtually
excluded Hispanic Americans from full
participation. The Senior Executive Serv-
ice, the Incentive Pay System, and all the
other facets of your package that you
have presented are very fine, but if we're
not represented in the senior levels-
which we are not-if we're not repre-
sented in the mid-level management, or
the higher level managers-which we are
not-the package is virtually meaningless
to the Hispanic American constituents.
What, in your opinion, does the civil
service reform package do or have to of-
fer to try to offset some of these concerns?
THE PRESIDENT. There's no doubt in
my mind that with the change in the hir-
ing practices involved, the change in the
veterans preference, that we can have a
much more equitable opportunity for
Americans. One of the things that we are
changing is quite controversial, that is op-
posed, for instance, by the American Le-
gion, of which I'm a member and of
which my father was a member, is to elim-
inate the veterans preference, for in-
stance, for a Navy commander who has
completed his full service in the Navy, has
1372
