Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
responsible labor leaders and also from
the rank and file of workers throughout
our country as well as the business com-
munity.
I might say that I'll do my share or
more. I've pledged to cut the Federal defi-
cit further, which we will do. I've pledged
to freeze Federal employment, only filling
one out of two vacancies that occur. We
will have lower Federal employment in
the future. I've pledged to cut down sub-
stantially the percent of the gross national
product of our Nation that the Federal
Government spends and to cut down un-
necessary regulations and the cost of reg-
ulation itself without causing a deteriora-
tion in the quality of our own lives.
I think the only chance this program
has to work is for it to be an extended,
deep, permanent commitment by a wide
range of groups. It has to be a nationwide,
team effort. We're not going to have im-
mediate success. Trends are in the right
direction, however.
I think we have taken bold action this
morning to sustain the value of the dollar
in international markets, and I believe
that this will have a beneficial effect in
controlling inflation. It was a difficult de-
And I hope that this first meeting of its
kind in St. Louis will act as a pattern for
us to copy throughout the country and as
a massive demonstration of American sup-
port for a much needed and effective pro-
gram to control inflation in our Nation.
Now, Bob, I'd like to take questions that
anyone there might have.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Mr. President,
thank you very much.
To be certain that we secured repre-
sentative questions, Mr. President, we
have asked three people to participate in
this part of it. The first gentleman from
whom you will hear is Mr. Robert Kelly,
who's president of the St. Louis Labor
Council, AFL-CIO. Mr. Kelly not only
has a question, Mr. President, but Mr.
Kelly this morning advised Lee Kling and
me that he also had a statement that he
wished to make. And I now will ask Mr.
Kelly to proceed. Bob Kelly.
MR. KELLY. Mr. President, first let me
thank you for trying to tackle this very
huge problem.
Yesterday the executive council of the
AFL-CIO expressed a number of con-
cerns with your proposed plan to halt in-
flation. The officers of the St. Louis Labor
cision for me to make, but I have no doubt Council, along with you and the executive
that it was the right decision to make. And
it's typical of the kind of action that is
going to be taken regardless of political
consequences to control inflation in our
country.
I would like to add once more, before
I take questions, Bob, that I need from
everyone assembled in St. Louis and, in
fact, throughout the country, not just a
nodding of one's head and saying, “This
is a good program; we hope it works," but
I need active support. I need positive sup-
port. And I need well-publicized support
from all the leaders that are assembled
there together with you.
council, do agree that inflation is our
number one enemy. We in St. Louis also
share many of the same concerns voiced
by the executive council in Washington.
Yet the executive council does not deter-
mine the collective bargaining goals of
the affiliated unions in Missouri. In the
final analysis, the members of our public
and private sector unions who will nego-
tiate contracts over the next year must de-
termine for themselves what they need to
provide food, housing, energy, medical
care for their members and families.
In St. Louis we've already proven that
we can work in harmony with industry to
the mutual benefit of the community. As
1911
