Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 12
And specifically, will you seek to have
comprehensive legislation passed in the
next Congress to take effective phases, or
will you go at it one piece of legislation
at a time?
THE PRESIDENT. The midterm confer-
ence decision was compatible with the
1976 convention decisions on the Demo-
cratic Party platform concerning compre-
hensive health care. I favor that cam-
paign commitment and the platform
commitment.
There are differences about how to im-
plement a national health care system.
Under any circumstances, those policies
espoused by Senator Kennedy, those poli-
cies espoused by me-the first major im-
plementation or financial assessment for
that purpose would be made in 1983. It's
necessarily a slow process. I think it's bet-
ter done step by step, recognizing the ul-
timate goal and moving as we can afford
it and as we can implement it in a very
carefully conceived, methodical way,
bringing on board the Congress, and also
bringing on board, for support, the Amer-
ican people and the different interest
groups involved.
So, I think that the policy expressed by
the midterm conference was compatible
with my own, and that's what I intend to
carry out.
OIL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, this goes to your gen-
eral attitude with the oil industry. Last
week, consumer advocate Clarence Dit-
low blocked a multimillion dollar price
increase in unleaded gasoline by your ad-
ministration, said you were ignoring the
aspect of destroying catalytic converters.
There's been a major increase in home
heating fuel at a time when there's a glut
of home heating fuel, particularly here in
the Northeast-we've had a very mild
winter. It looks like some very high-level
deep-sixing of criminal actions against
oil companies in Texas is going on at the
Energy Administration, gone on for more
than a year now.
And lastly, your Justice Department's
testimony from the Antitrust Division
going along with oil industry acquisition
of uranium companies, solar development
companies, and coal companies-all of
these were decisions that seemed to be
opposed to what you promised as a candi-
date.
Could you give us a general view? Have
you changed your view to the oil industry
since becoming President?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I've not changed
my views at all. We want to have the
principles of the national energy plan
carried out effectively. The Congress has
now given us legislative authority to carry
out 60, 65 percent of what I did propose.
Any violation by the oil companies of reg-
ulations or law will be prosecuted en-
thusiastically by me, by the Justice De-
partment, and also by the Department of
Energy. And, obviously, we are very
deeply dedicated to the enforcement of
the antitrust laws.
I'm concerned also about the growing
investment by the oil companies in com-
petitive areas of energy supply. I expressed
this during my own campaign, and I still
feel very strongly about this. I think that
the Congress itself is now prepared to
move more effectively to modify the law
when necessary to minimize abuse. But I
don't consider my administration at all
reticent about carrying out the policies
that I espoused during the campaign
when I ran for President, and I certainly
don't consider them to be reticent at all
in enforcing the law.
PRESIDENT'S 1980 CANDIDACY
Q. Mr. President, a yes or no question,
and then, if I may, a followup. In your
2223
