Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and, of course, Lebanon. It is a slow, un-
certain, tedious process. It's not enjoyable
to get involved in the negotiation of
every single word, every phrase, every
punctuation mark, every paragraph, to
overcome years, generations, even cen-
turies of hatred and animosity and
bloodshed and distrust. But the spirit is
there, and the desire is there. We need
your help, and we need your support.
I told a group a few minutes ago that
because of the problems with the Middle
East settlements and the furor that it
aroused in Egypt, that President Sadat
had told his delegation to come home.
But I contacted him last night, asked
him to rely on us to bring about a peace-
ful resolution. And this morning, he in-
formed me that his delegation will stay in
Washington as long as it's necessary to
have a peace treaty.
The last thing I want to say is to ask
you to be patient with me and Abe Ribi-
coff and others. There are times when I
have made statements or taken action
during the last 12 months-and Senator
Ribicoff has done the same when, for a
few days or maybe even weeks, it seemed
that we had made a serious mistake.
Our commitment to Israel, our alle-
giance to Israel, is unshakable. And some-
times there are nuances or complications
or facts that can't be revealed at the time.
But over a period of weeks, I think you've
always seen that when Abe Ribicoff votes
in the Congress for a controversial issue,
like, for instance, the sale of F-5's to
Egypt, it seems to some that he
may have
made a mistake or that I may have made
a mistake in advocating it. But we would
never have induced President Sadat to
come to Camp David had it not been for
that vote.
And So, I hope that you will be patient
with us and give us your moral support
and your active support as we struggle
with this very difficult question.
I want to see peace throughout the
world. But with the exception of our own
Nation itself, I can't think of any issue
that's more sensitive nor more important
than to bring peace, permanent peace,
and a recognition of Israel by her neigh-
bors. If you'll help me, I'll help you and
we'll bring that about.
Thank you very much. I love you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:53 p.m. in
the Plaza Room at the Hotel Sonesta.
Lynn, Massachusetts
Remarks at a State Democratic Party Rally.
October 28, 1978
Speaker O'Neill; Speaker Tom McGee;
Senator Ted Kennedy; Paul Tsongas,
next Senator from Massachusetts; Ed
King, next Governor of Massachusetts;
his running mate, Tommy O'Neill, next
Lieutenant Governor; my good working
companions in Washington, Congressman
Harrington, Congressman Markey;
Mayor Marino, who has welcomed me so
well to Lynn; Mike Connolly, the next
secretary of state; Bob Crane, the next
treasurer; Francis Bellotti, next attorney
general; Thad Buczko, State auditor; and
John Marino, who will be the next Con-
gressman from the 10th District:
I also want to say that you've already
welcomed two great, young newcomers-
Jim Shannon, the Fifth Congressional
seat candidate, and of course we know
Nick Mavroules is a great friend of all
of ours, and I welcome you all.
It is an honor for me to come back to
Massachusetts. You treated me well in
1976, not only by giving me your votes
for President but also by ensuring that I
had as the leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives perhaps the greatest Speaker of
all time I believe the greatest Speaker
of all time-Tip O'Neill.
1892
