Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
So, I think we've had some successes
along the way; still have some difficult
tasks ahead of us. But I believe that in
general we've had good coordination
of effort in the White House and a very
good cooperation with the Congress, quite
often on a highly bipartisan basis, par-
ticularly in foreign and defense affairs.
I'd like to answer your questions now.
QUESTIONS
NEWSPAPERS AND THE COURTS
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you have
any thoughts that you would like to share
with us on the big problems of the news-
paper industry now, arising, for instance,
in the New York Times Farber case or the
Stanford Daily raid, you know, the search
warrants instead of subpoenas-or pos-
sibly the feeling in the newspaper indus-
try that the judiciary is becoming im-
perialistic in their attitude towards the
press?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say I
don't believe the judiciary is becoming
imperialistic or abusive toward the press.
I think all of American society, almost
without exception, including the judi-
ciary, believe that we need to carefully
preserve the right of freedom of speech
and the right of the news media to re-
port accurately the news and to protect
their sources.
The Hartford [Stanford] case, I think,
can be resolved either by subsequent rul-
ings or by administrative decisions through
the Attorney General-he's professed a
desire to do this—or perhaps even by leg-
islation in Congress. The Farber case is
one that has confused issues in it. As you
know, it will now be decided by the U.S.
Supreme Court. I think the New York
Times and the defendants in the criminal
case are perfectly willing to submit the
case to the Supreme Court of the United
States for final resolution. But I really
don't feel, as President, observing these
issues very carefully, having talked to the
Attorney General, when appropriate, and
to key congressional leaders, that there
is a trend in our country away from pro-
tecting the right of freedom of speech or
freedom of reporting the news.
My belief is that these particular issues
may have dramatized an existing problem
which can be resolved quite readily by
the U.S. Supreme Court decision in the
Farber case, perhaps by corrective legis-
lation or administrative decision in the
other.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, as you are aware
from the result of the newest polls, the
wonderful job you did at Camp David
with Mr. Begin and President Sadat was
received royally. I live in a little mountain
village of 2,900 people, and not many of
them know Sadat from a hole in the
ground, or Begin either. They talk to me
about the price of bread and inflation in
general.
So, my question is, you did so well on
this foreign issue, why can't you get Fitz-
simmons and George Meany¹ and the
president of General Motors, get them up
to Camp David and knock heads together
do something about inflation?
[Laughter]
to
THE PRESIDENT. That sounds like a
fate worse than death-[laughter]-to
go back to Camp David, and particularly
with that particular group. [Laughter] I
never thought in my life that I would be
glad to leave Camp David and come back
to Washington. [Laughter] I told the steel-
workers the other day that one of the rea-
sons we solved, at least to a limited degree,
the Mideast problem was because Begin
came to see me and said, "Mr. President,
1 Frank E. Fitzsimmons, president, Interna-
tional Brotherhood of Teamsters, and George
Meany, president, AFL-CIO.
1591
