July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States of America and the Federal
Republic of Germany has been strong and
sound. And he and I both agree that it
has never been stronger nor more sound
than it is today.
The bilateral discussions have been
thorough. We've assessed relations be-
tween our own two countries and the co-
operative attitude that we enjoy to try to
preserve and to enhance peace throughout
the world. We've discussed economic
problems that we face together, and we
have prepared ourselves very thoroughly,
I believe, for a successful summit con-
ference that will commence day after
tomorrow.
These discussions are very helpful to
me. I've never met any other world leader
who has been of more assistance in my
comprehension of economic matters than
has Chancellor Schmidt.
The strength and independence of the
Federal Republic of Germany is a firm
foundation, as is our own, for a very frank
discussion, not only of compatabilities but
of differences of opinion. And these dis-
cussions are very fruitful in identifying
those areas where our own national in-
terests might be at some small variance.
The purpose of a summit conference
is to resolve the differences that we can,
to assess the differences that remain, to
establish common goals, and to recruit the
parliamentary and congressional leaders,
the general public, the private sector of
our free societies to join us in realizing
those goals.
In every respect I feel both grateful and
also confident about the relationship that
exists between the people of Germany and
the people of the United States.
And I look forward, Mr. Chancellor, to
the continuation of our visit throughout
your country and the successful conclu-
sion of a very important summit confer-
ence with the other Western democratic
leaders.
I thank you for giving me this opportu-
nity to speak briefly to the German and
American press. And as you say, we're
now available for a few questions.
SOVIET DISSIDENTS
Q. Could you tell us, sir, both of you,
what you think about the Ginzburg sen-
tence and the Shcharanskiy verdict in the
Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. It's obvious to us that
Union, Mr. Shcharanskiy and Ginzburg,
the courageous dissidents in the Soviet
have been accused and tried and pun-
ished, will be punished because they have
supported those who sought the basic
freedoms that were guaranteed in the
Final Act of the Helsinki agreement,
which was signed voluntarily by the So-
viet Union itself, and because they sup-
ported basic commitments that are also
guaranteed in the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, which the Soviet Union
and other members of the United Nations
have publicly and officially endorsed. We
Soviet authorities.
deplore this action on the part of the
Our sympathies and our support re-
mains with Mr. Shcharanskiy, Orlov, and
with Ginzburg and others. Obviously, we
have no mechanism nor any desire to in-
terfere in the internal affairs of the Soviet
Union. But the arousing of public con-
demnation around the world for the viola-
tion of these principles of human freedom
is a legitimate role for me as a leader and
for the people of our country.
We seek in spite of this adverse circum-
stance to cooperate with the Soviet Union
whenever possible. And we are continu-
ing to make progress in some areas which
are crucial to the safety of the world.
Secretary Vance has just returned from a
constructive meeting with the Foreign
Minister of the Soviet Union on the
SALT agreements. And I'll be visiting
1282
