Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
ership as evidenced in this community of
Western democracies is very tangible and
demonstrable.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
MR. LOHFELDT. Critics charge there is
no clear American foreign policy concept,
and especially no clear concept for Amer-
ican policy towards the Soviet Union. For
example, on the one hand, you and your
advisers oppose the Soviet expansion in
Africa, while on the other hand, your Sec-
retary of State, Cyrus Vance, resumes the
negotiations for a new SALT agreement
with his Soviet counterpart, Gromyko.
How do you reconcile these policies?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States
seeks a détente that is both broadly de-
fined and fully reciprocal. We recognize,
however, that our relations with the So-
viet Union will continue to be a mixture
of cooperation and competition. For our
part, we want to enlarge areas of cooper-
ation, and my administration has en-
gaged the Soviet Union in a broad range
of efforts to limit and reduce arms. But
when necessary, we will act to ensure our
security and that of our allies.
If there is to be a genuine détente, the
Soviet Union must recognize, as we do,
the responsibility we both share to work
for just and peaceful solutions to the
world's problems, rather than aggravat-
ing those problems or increasing the like-
lihood of conflict. This is why we have
expressed our concern over the actions of
the Soviet Union and its ally Cuba in
Africa.
MR. LOHFELDT. But you refuse to link
SALT
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to
SALT, my administration has from the
beginning placed the highest importance
on the need to halt the upward spiral of
nuclear weapons. We are prepared to
conclude a SALT II agreement that truly
enhances Western security. As I said at
Annapolis:
"We have no desire to link this negotia-
tion for a SALT agreement with other
competitive relationships nor to impose
other special conditions on the process. In
a democratic society, however, where
public opinion is an integral factor in the
shaping and implementation of foreign
policy, we do recognize that tensions,
sharp disputes, or threats to peace will
complicate the quest for a successful
agreement. This is not a matter of our
preference but a simple recognition of
facts."
MR. LOHFELDT. While you refuse to
link the SALT talks to any other prob-
lem in American-Soviet relations, the So-
viets are challenging the West in Africa,
take American newspapermen into court,
and hold trials against prominent Soviet
dissidents. Don't you feel that they are
exploiting the American policy of no link-
age and try to test your resolve?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that a
trial of innocent citizens, whether they be
Americans or Soviet citizens, is a test of
my own resolve or an attack on the people
of the United States. This problem of
Shcharanskiy, Ginzburg, Orlov, and
others, of American newspersons and
American businessmen is really an attack
on people throughout the world who be-
lieve in human freedom. And it is made
in direct violation of written international
agreements signed voluntarily by the
Soviet Union.
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, signed by the Soviet Union as
part of the United Nations, and the Final
Act of the Helsinki agreement, which was
signed by the Soviet Union, along with 34
other nations in Europe and North Amer-
ica, calls for the preservation within each
country individually of the rights of a
citizen to emigrate if he chooses, or to live
with one's own family, or to voice opinions
1273
