Dec. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19
U.S.C. 1862), do hereby proclaim that:
SECTION 1. Section 3(a) (1) (iii) of
Proclamation No. 3279, as amended, is
further amended by adding thereto the
following:
"Provided, that where the applicable
duty on a barrel of crude oil, unfinished
oil, or finished product entered on or after
Sunday, December 17, 1978, exceeds the
amount of the fee paid with respect to
that barrel, the reduction shall not ex-
ceed the amount of the fee nor may any
excess duty be used to reduce the fee on
any other barrel.".
SEC. 2. Section 4(b) (5) of Proclama-
tion No. 3279, as amended, is further
amended by deleting everything after the
second sentence.
SEC. 3. Section 4(b) of Proclamation
No. 3279, as amended, is further amended
by adding thereto a new paragraph (6) as
follows:
"(6) With respect to the allocation of
imports into District I of residual fuel oil
to be used as fuel, the Secretary shall pro-
vide until June 30, 1979, for the fair and
equitable distribution of such allocation.
among all persons desiring to import
residual fuel oil into District I. For the
period beginning July 1, 1979, the Secre-
tary shall provide that the distribution of
such allocation shall be based upon a per-
son's actual average calendar day imports
in the six calendar months preceding
May 1, 1979.".
SEC. 4. Section 8 of Proclamation No.
3279, as amended, is further amended by
adding at the end thereof the following
unnumbered clause:
"For the period from November 1, 1978
through June 30, 1979, the allocation of
residual fuel oil to be used as fuel in Dis-
trict I shall not be subject to the reduc-
tions set forth in this Section.".
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of De-
cember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:03 p.m., December 8, 1978]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
December 2
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
December 3
The President hosted a White House
reception honoring the recipients of the
Kennedy Center Honors. He and Mrs.
Carter then went to the Opera House at
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts to attend the award presen-
tation ceremonies.
December 4
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-a group of administration officials to
discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
2186
