Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
or callousness about the disadvantaged,
but because everyone realizes once they
study the issue, that the most heavy bur-
den of inflation falls on those who are dis-
advantaged, the retired person on a fixed
income, the poor person who has maybe
one job capability and cannot move
about, the family that spends almost all
of their income on the necessities of life.
Those are the ones who suffer most from
inflation.
And it's a complete fallacy, which
ought to be wiped out, that controlling
inflation works against the poor and the
disadvantaged. The best thing that I can
do for the poor and disadvantaged
is to keep the social programs at a
constant level or perhaps some modifi-
cation to make them more efficient, on
the one hand, and control the inflationary
burden which falls most heavily on them.
DEFENSE SPENDING
Ms. WALTERS. Mr. President, right
now you have a very difficult choice to
make there are always difficult choices,
but one in particular-whether you stick
to your commitment to raise the defense
budget about 3 percent, a commitment
you made to our NATO Allies; however,
to cut this amount so that you can hold
the Federal deficit to the $30 billion and
also because you are cutting social do-
mestic programs.
We've read that you have very strong
advice on both sides. What are you going
to do, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I get strong
advice on both sides of almost every issue,
Barbara.
The paramount responsibility of any
President is the security of the American
people, the American Nation. I feel very
strongly that I have got to maintain a
strong defense. And I'm not going to yield
in that commitment.
When I became President, I think it's
accurate to say that NATO was weak-
ened and also dispirited. There was a lack
of conviction among our European allies
and others that we were dedicated to a
strong Western Europe, to withstand the
potential threat from Eastern Europe and
from the Soviet Union. I do not intend to
go back on my commitment to NATO.
Ms. WALTERS. It will be approximately
a 3-percent defense raise?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
ROLE OF THE FIRST LADY
MS. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, as we talk,
not just about these matters but about
others which we will get to, you have now
been in the White House for 2 years. Are
there any policies of this administration
or any change in the country which you
feel reflect your advice to the President?
MRS. CARTER. Barbara, I don't consider
myself a force in his decisions, but he does
talk to me about the things that he's doing.
And I feel compelled to disagree with him
at times-
MS. WALTERS. Could you tell us why?
MRS. CARTER. — -to be supportive
when I think he's right. I never have pub-
licly disagreed with him, and I have a
very good reason for doing that: because
I know Jimmy well and I think that if
I made our disagreements public, I would
lose all my effectiveness with him. [Laugh-
ter] I don't think it would help, in any
way change his mind about anything.
And while you're talking about the in-
flation and the social programs for the
country, I was thinking about the thing
that I'm interested in now, encouraging
individuals in their communities to be-
come involved in solving their own prob-
lems, because even with large government
programs, when we have tried to cure the
social ills with massive government pro-
grams, we haven't ever been able to do
2251
