Sept. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
life by your devotion to the moral and
spiritual values of your faith.
My family joins in your prayer that we
will see continued progress toward the
goal of peace and a greater realization
of your very deep belief in the dignity and
worth of every individual.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the International Labor
Press Association. August 18, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon every-
body. How are you doing? I hope I'm not
interrupting your meeting. [Laughter]
Have you had a nice day so far?
I'd like to outline very briefly some of
the things that have been accomplished
and some of the problems that we still
face, and then spend what time we have
available answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
As you well know, when I was inaugu-
rated President a year and a half
the
ago
prime concern of our Nation was unem-
ployment. The Congress cooperated well,
and with your help we were able to put
into effect an economic stimulus package
that's been very productive in providing
jobs. We now have about 95 million
Americans on the job, the highest it's ever
been. We've had a net increase of 62
million jobs just in the last year and a half.
We've had about 5 million people added
to the work force. As they became sure
they could get a job, more have applied
for jobs, and we've had a net reduction
in those who are unemployed of 1.5
million.
This has been a very gratifying experi-
ence. Some key types of workers have had
notable reductions. Among blue-collar
workers the unemployment rate is down
30 percent. Among Vietnam veterans the
unemployment rate is down 40 [33] per-
cent. And among construction workers the
unemployment rate is down 40 percent.
We have, at the same time, a continual
problem with inflation that's been pressing
upon us now for about 10 years, an under-
lying inflation rate of around 62 percent.
The only way I know to deal with this is
by very tough management of the Govern-
ment. Someone's got to get control of the
bureaucracy, control of the energy prob-
lem, control of the economy. And there
needs to be an inspiration so that all of us
work together--in the private sector, labor
and business, individual citizens; local,
State, and Federal Government leaders,
certainly myself as President, and the Con-
gress. There is an awareness, I think, that
the bureaucracy itself needs to be more
effective, and we have tried to deal with
some of the more controversial issues that
affect us all.
Energy is now the most important as a
single issue. Last night there was signed,
as you know, finally, a conference report
between the House and the Senate on the
natural gas issue. We still have a very
tough battle on our hands to get this leg-
islation approved by the House and Sen-
ate and implemented into law.
This would leave us with one remain-
ing item, and that's the crude oil equaliza-
tion tax. It's imperative that we raise the
price of crude oil up to the world market
price, to stabilize markets and also to re-
duce the waste brought about by excessive
use. And what we want to do is to impose
the tax, but return the tax collected di-
rectly to consumers, so that we won't have
inflation and we won't have any reduction
in overall stimulus to the economy and the
buying power of the American people.
The alternatives to that are not good
at all. By a very thin hair, I and my pred-
ecessors, all the way back to Harry Tru-
man, have been faced with the prospect
1490
