Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
International Air Transportation
Negotiations
Statement by the President.
August 21, 1978
Ever since I became President, I have
been seeking to introduce the airline in-
dustry to the benefits of competition both
at home and abroad.
Two events highlight that effort. I am
today releasing a formal statement of in-
ternational aviation policy for the United
States. Recently, representatives of the
United States and Israel signed a new air
service agreement which reflects the spirit
of that policy.
Our policy seeks to encourage vigorous
competition, with the goals of permitting
lower fares, better service to more cities,
and fewer Government restrictions on
charter travel. Travelers of many coun-
tries have already benefited from recent
agreements which reflect our competitive
policy. I hope that our formal statement,
by making our position clear, will ease the
difficult process of negotiating additional
air agreements with other countries.
The U.S.-Israeli agreement signed
recently achieves these goals of reducing
Government restrictions. It will permit
healthy competition among our airlines,
and, by giving Israel authority to serve
four additional US. cities, it will greatly
expand Israel's opportunity to provide air
service between our countries.
greatest possible benefit to travelers and
shippers. Our primary aim is furthering
the maintenance and continued develop-
ment of affordable, safe, convenient, effi-
cient, and environmentally acceptable air
services. Our policy for negotiating civil
air transport agreements reflects our na-
tional goals in international air transpor-
tation. This policy provides a set of
general objectives, designed particularly
for major international air markets, on
the basis of which United States negotia-
tors can develop specific negotiating
strategies.
Maximum consumer benefits can be
best achieved through the preservation
and extension of competition between air-
lines in a fair marketplace. Reliance on
competitive market forces to the greatest
extent possible in our international air
transportation agreements will allow the
public to receive improved service at low
costs that reflect economically efficient
operations. Competition and low prices
are also fully compatible with a prosper-
ous U.S. air transport industry and our
national defense, foreign policy, interna-
tional commerce, and energy efficiency
objectives.
Bilateral aviation agreements, like other
international agreements, should serve the
interests of both parties. Other countries
have an interest in the economic prosper-
ity of their airline industries, as we do in
the prosperity of ours. The United States
believes this interest is best served by a
International Air Transportation policy of expansion of competitive oppor-
Negotiations
Statement of U.S. Policy for the Conduct of
the Negotiations. August 21, 1978
INTRODUCTION
United States international air trans-
portation policy is designed to provide the
tunity rather than restriction. By offering
more services to the public, in a healthy
and fair competitive environment, the in-
ternational air transport industry can
stimulate the growth in traffic which con-
tributes both to profitable industry opera-
tions and to maximum public benefits.
1462
