Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 25
I shall soon announce new steps to aid
women entrepreneurs and businesses
owned by women.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11318 is Public Law
95-507, approved October 24.
Advisor to the President on
Inflation and Chairman of the
Council on Wage and Price
Stability
Nation's response to inflation is effective
and is flexible and that we remove the
obstacles to decreasing prices, decreasing
costs, decreasing wage increases.
One thing I'd like to point out is that
this will be a very good opportunity for
Government and the private sector of our
Nation to work in harmony. We will be
making every effort to get mayors, county
officials, Governors, Members of Con-
gress, and the executive branch of our
Federal Government to work with the pri-
vate sector to make as much progress as
Remarks Announcing the Appointment of possible.
Alfred E. Kahn. October 25, 1978
Last night, I outlined a government-,
and in fact, nationwide program to im-
prove our chances to control inflation. In
order to help me coordinate this entire
program, I have asked Alfred Kahn, who
has been the Chairman of the Civil Aero-
nautics Board, to be Advisor to the Presi-
dent and Chairman of the Council on
Wage and Price Stability.
Obviously this will be a very challeng-
ing and important responsibility for him.
He will work directly with me, with the
Secretary of Treasury, Labor, Commerce,
the Special Trade Representative, the
Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, and others, to make sure that
our efforts are given the maximum chance
to succeed.
Very few occurrences in the Govern-
ment this last year have been of more sig-
nificance to our Nation nor more gratify-
ing to me than Chairman Kahn's proving
in the CAB that we could actually have
better service with lower costs, higher
profits, and a chance to let our free enter-
prise system show its vigor and its strength
and its value to our Nation. This has oc-
curred in the deregulation of the airline
industry, and Chairman Kahn has been
responsible for that progress.
We will endeavor to ensure that our
I believe in our free enterprise system
and believe that free competition can
bring about a realization of our hopes to
control inflation. I'm very proud that Al-
fred Kahn has agreed to come and help
me in this very important position.
I would like to express my deep thanks
to Robert Strauss, our Special Trade
Representative, who for the last 6 months
has used his tremendous enthusiasm and
his influence and competence to arouse
the Nation's concern about inflation and
to bring about this appointment. He came
to me several weeks ago, suggested that I
go on television, make a major speech to
the Nation about the problems of infla-
tion, some of the opportunities for resolv-
ing those problems. And he was the first
to suggest that I appoint Alfred Kahn to
be my assistant, my adviser, in handling
the inflationary problem. And I want to
express my personal thanks to Bob Strauss,
who is our Special Trade Representative,
for the good work he has done.
I'd like now to introduce to you Chair-
man Alfred Kahn, the new Advisor to the
President, my new partner in controlling
inflation in our country.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:52 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Mr.
Kahn and Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of
the Council of Economic Advisers, spoke to the
reporters.
1849
