Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
He's been a brother, a father, an ad-
viser, a friend, a counselor, a critic, an
adviser. He's a man who believes in his
country. He says next year we have four
priorities, in increasing order of impor-
tance: first, to get hospital cost contain-
ment passed; second, to havé a SALT
agreement ratified; third, to get inflation
under control; fourth, to see the Red Sox
win the National [American] League pen-
nant, and then go on to win the World
Series, right, Tip?
The day after we had a new Polish
Pope elected, Tip O'Neill called me up
and said, "I've got a good recommenda-
tion for the next Secretary of State." I
knew before he told me that he was talk-
ing about Carl Yastrzemski, and Tip
wanted to take him over to the investi-
ture of the new Pope. But when Cy Vance
steps down, I'll call on Carl to help me
as Secretary of State.
Let me say this in recognition of Ted
Kennedy: Of all the hundred Members
of the Senate who have given me good
support this year, the Senator who has
been my most consistent supporter in do-
mestic and foreign affairs has been your
great Senator, Ted Kennedy, and I want
to thank him in front of all of you.
It's very important that we have repre-
senting Massachusetts next year a fine,
new Democratic Senator, Paul Tsongas.
He represents what the Democratic Party
is, a man who believes in meeting basic
human needs, a man who's honest, prac-
tical, competent, and close to you. He's
a man who believes in the economic de-
velopment of Massachusetts, who wants to
put our people back to work. He serves
on the Banking Committee. He's respon-
sible for urban affairs. He's responsible
as well for defense. He's a very strong
supporter of having our Nation have a
strong defense capability.
We are now the strongest nation on
Earth. And with the help of people like
Paul Tsongas, we're going to stay that
way, and you can depend on it.
He's one of the leaders in developing
for our country a new energy policy. Be-
cause of his ability and his knowledge of
New England, particularly Massachu-
setts, he was chosen to serve on the ad hoc
committee to develop a new energy bill.
And you couldn't go wrong and you won't
go wrong Tuesday after next when you
elect Paul Tsongas to be the next Senator
from your great State.
You've got a good Democratic team in
Ed King and Tommy O'Neill. They be-
lieve in holding down property taxes.
They're tough enough to deliver on
promises. They believe in making the city
stronger, and they are for the working
people. And I hope you'll give them your
strong support.
I think you know it's a balanced ticket,
and the Democratic Party is certainly
broad enough to encompass those who
might disagree on some issues. But they
believe that their strength, politically,
their counsel, when they're in office, will
come to you, and I hope you'll give them
your strong support.
I'd like to talk just a few minutes about
my own administration and the impor-
tance of a Democratic team. When I went
in office 21 months ago, we had 10 mil-
lion people in this country who could not
find a full-time job. We had 7 million
people who could find no jobs at all.
When I campaigned through your State
in '75 and '76, through Connecticut, Ver-
mont, New Hampshire, Maine, the most
important single question asked me was,
"Can we put our people back to work?"
The Congress and I have worked hard at
this with the help of great Governors like
your own Mike Dukakis, with Governors
around the country.
We've cut the unemployment rate al-
ready by 25 percent. We've added a net
increase of 6½ million jobs. The unem-
1893
