Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
And finally, let me say that the nuclear
arms race matches super power against
super power. It is an unending, unwin-
nable, ever more costly contest. It escalates
the risk of ultimate confrontation. It in-
creases the danger that a fatal miscalcu-
lation, a tragic accident, or an act of mad-
ness could propel the world into nuclear
war and wipe out life as we know it on
Earth. I am dedicated to bring the nu-
clear arms race under control.
We have been negotiating daily and we
are now negotiating daily with the Soviet
Union on a new treaty to limit strategic
arms. We hope soon to sign a SALT
hope and human dignity, with the poten-
tial for greatness that only a free people
can fulfill, a symbol of peace and a symbol
of liberty to all the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. at
the Cook Convention Center auditorium. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Democratic
National Chairman John C. White.
Following his remarks, the President at-
tended a reception for Governors attending the
conference in the Cook Convention Center's
main lobby.
agreement which will strengthen the se- Memphis, Tennessee
curity of the United States, will provide
for accurate verification, and will sub-
stantially reduce the threat of nuclear
war.
Once the SALT II treaty is signed-
and I believe it will be soon-I will de-
pend on your help to ensure that it is
ratified. We have no more urgent re-
sponsibility to the next generation of
Americans than to act now to reduce the
danger of nuclear holocaust. When the
history of our time is written, it will be
said that you and I, the American people
met that responsibility.
Well, we face these and other serious
challenges as Democrats and as Ameri-
cans. But as a party and as a people we
have met and we have overcome great
challenges before. We will stay true to the
promise of the Democratic Party. We will
meet our urgent responsibilities. We will
strive for competence. We will act with
compassion. And we will continue to
dream great dreams-and to make those
dreams come true.
With the courage and the common
sense of the American people as our
guide, we will make this Nation what our
founders envisioned a land of liberty
and opportunity, proud of its heritage of
Remarks at the Democratic National
Committee's National Finance Council
Breakfast. December 9, 1978
I was standing outside in the hall, list-
ening to the introduction of the Cabinet.
I had thought our administration had
done a good job up until now. But when
Cabinet officers still get applause after 2
years, something's wrong. [Laughter] The
ones that got the most applause are in
trouble with me. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, I think that this
conference, which I personally did not
approve when it was decided in 1976, is
turning out to be a very constructive and
very productive meeting. It's good for
Democratic delegates throughout the Na-
tion to be interested enough to seek a
chance to come here and meet with oth-
ers; some of them at a substantial sacrifice,
financially. And I think the enthusiasm
that has already been exhibited, the in-
tense interest in issues has certainly been
constructive and instructive to me.
The press and others had anticipated
sharp divisions, schisms, debates that were
not harmonious at all and not construc-
tive. But that has not been the case. I
think the more that our own administra-
2195
