Nov. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
fered and more of them were further
wounded by the attitude of those who
stayed behind. Too often, instead of ap-
preciation and support, they have been
criticized and rebuffed because they an-
swered the call of duty. Often our Na-
tion's response to their heroism hurt more
than their wounds.
So, it is fitting for all those who served
in Vietnam be especially honored here at
the Tomb of the Unknown Soldiers, be-
cause we can never fully realize what it
has cost them to answer their Nation's
call. We have paid a bitter price not
asked of the veterans of any other war in
history, and we owe them a special debt.
We have sought to remedy this in the
last 2 years. This plaque is not the final tri-
bute our Nation will pay to those who
served in Vietnam, but the Congress and
I and Max Cleland and others were de-
termined that this plaque be placed here
today as an important symbolic act of ap-
preciation to them. The four figures on
the plaque represent the men and women
in all five services-Army, Navy, Ma-
rines, Air Force, and Coast Guard-who
participated in the war on land, sea, and
air. The plaque states, and I quote:
"The people of the United States [of
America] pay tribute to those members of
its Armed Services [Forces] who served
honorably in Southeast Asia during the
Vietnam conflict."
I think it has been especially fitting for
Max Cleland, the Administrator of the
Veterans Administration, to join me in
unveiling this plaque. He personifies the
dedication and sacrifice of those who
served in Vietnam, and their determina-
tion to rebuild their own lives and to
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Bill
Moyers of the Public Broadcasting Service.
November 13, 1978
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. MOYERS. Mr. President, a philoso-
pher you have read and quoted, Søren
Kierkegaard, once wrote an essay called
"For Self-Examination." Confession and
examination have a long history in your
church, although not usually on television.
With your permission, I'd like to ask a
few questions for self-examination.
If there is a single dominant criticism
by your supporters of the Carter adminis-
tration, it is that for the first 18 months
there was no single theme, no vision of
what it is you want to do. Are you going
to try to, in the next 2 years, mold a Car-
ter vision of the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it was
also Kierkegaard who said that every
man is an exception. And the multiplicity
of responsibilities that a President has,
the same issues that our Nation has to
face, I think, causes some lack of a cen-
tral focus quite often.
We're dealing with the question of a
strong national defense, some concern
about the good intentions of potential ad-
versaries like the Soviet Union on the
one hand. At the same time we are strug-
gling valiantly to find common ground
on which we can assure peace between us
and better friendship and a minimization
of the distrust.
We, at the same time-we're dealing
with SALT, are trying to bring peace to
the Mideast, to Cyprus, to Namibia, to
Rhodesia, to Nicaragua, exerting a lead-
build a world in which such sacrifices will ership role in our country that the rest of
never be demanded again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:51 a.m. at
the Amphitheater after laying a wreath at the
Tomb of the Unknowns.
the world sometimes expects. And then,
of course, on domestic issues, they are so
broad-trying to have a strong farm
economy, increase exports, stabilize prices
2014
