Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
When I began running for President,
nobody thought I had a chance, but I
stuck to it and won. When I made my
anti-inflation speech-[applause] with
your help. When I made my anti-inflation
speech, a lot of people said we don't have
a chance to win. But I don't intend to
lose, and we're going to fight inflation
until we whip it. We're going to keep
Americans employed. We're going to
keep a strong dollar. We're going to keep
jobs going, and our Nation is going to
stand as a bulwark against depression
throughout the world.
It takes a good team effort, a good
Democratic team effort, and I want to
ask all of you to think back-sometimes
in a very brief life, since a lot of you are
quite young-how things were 2, 3 years
ago, before Bob Straub was your Gover-
nor and before we had a Democratic
administration in Washington. We've still
a long way to go. We haven't solved all
our problems. We don't claim to have
done that. But we are trying to recognize
for a change that our Nation is one of
which we can be justifiably proud.
Our military and economic and politi-
cal strength is not being used to abuse
other people. We no longer have any need
to espouse every totalitarian regime in the
world to make us look good. We've been
willing to treat the Panamanians fairly.
We've injected our beneficial impact into
South Africa to bring peace, an end to
apartheid, majority rule, one person-one
vote in that troubled continent.
We're working to bring peace to Cy-
prus. We're trying to have a SALT agree-
ment negotiated with the Soviet Union,
to remove once and for all the threat of
nuclear destruction from the entire world.
And I intend to succeed in having a good
SALT agreement in the next few weeks.
The Congress has passed a nonprolifer-
ation bill, the first time we've ever had
one which will prevent nations that don't
presently have nuclear explosives from
ever having them. We're making progress
toward peace, and, as you know, not too
long ago, I invited President Sadat of
Egypt and Prime Minister Begin to Camp
David, and we had some good luck there.
We're going to keep working until we
have peace in the Middle East, and you
can depend on that.
So, what is it fair to say that we want
in an American Government, in the
government of Oregon? What do we want
our Nation to be? We want it to be strong,
and we'll keep it that way. We want it
to be peaceful in its attitude, and we're
going to keep it that way. We want our
influence to be felt in a beneficial way
around the world, and we'll keep it that
way. We want us to help bring peace to
areas which are troubled. We want to
keep our young people from having to
give their lives in war.
We want to remove the threat of nu-
clear destruction. We want our people to
have jobs. We want to control inflation.
We want the American economy to be
strong. We want farmers to be prosperous.
We want young people to get a good edu-
cation. We want homes to be built, a good
highway system to be maintained.
These are the kinds of things we are
working to achieve in this administration,
and we also at the same time want to have
a competent, tough, and efficient govern-
ment. We don't waste money any more.
When I was running for President, we
had a Federal deficit of over $66 billion.
I've not been in office very long yet, but in
the preparation of the next budget, on
which I'm working now every week, we
will have cut the Federal deficit more than
half in two. And we're going to continue
to work until we have a balanced budget
for the Government of the United States.
Well, I want to come to a close in my
own speech, to ask you first of all to par-
ticipate by voting and encouraging other
1945
