Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 7, 1978
Free Enterprise Day, 1978
Proclamation 4576. June 30, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The development of the American
economy has historically been the result
of the interaction between the abundant
natural resources of our land and the en-
terprising spirit of our people. Our sys-
tem of economic enterprise reflects many
of the same values that are embodied in
our political system of democracy and
civil liberty.
Excessive government regulation—reg-
ulation that does not serve the public
interest-must concern us all. Unfortu-
nately, free enterprise is sometimes easier
to praise than to practice. But all who
believe in free enterprise can take heart
from the fact that when it is reintroduced
into areas of our economy where it has
long been dòrmant, the results can be
salutary. A good example is the airline
industry, where recent administrative
steps toward greater competition have
quickly led to both lower fares and higher
profits, confirming the advisability of per-
manent deregulation by law.
By joint resolution (S.J. Res. 128), the
Congress has authorized and requested
the President to issue a proclamation des-
ignating July 1, 1978, as "Free Enter-
prise Day."
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim July 1, 1978, as
Free Enterprise Day. I call upon the
people of the United States and interested
groups and organizations to mark this
observance with appropriate ceremonies
and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of
June, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:04 a.m. July 3, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on July 1.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
June 30, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that I'm very glad to have all of you here.
This is a series of meetings that we've had
with leading news men and women from
1225
