Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 5
And as we have recently decided to try
to make more effective the joint effort of
local officials, State officials, and Federal
officials in controlling crime, Jim Hunt
has been in the leadership among the 50
Governors who helped to make these pro-
grams control crime better.
I'm very proud to feel, also, a certain
kinship with John Ingram. If there ever
was a man who was an underdog and
has shown in every statewide race an
ability to come from behind and win, he's
it, and he's going to do the same thing in
1978.
He's a man who's not afraid to fight
against political odds. And he's a man
who's not afraid to fight against other
odds, when he's trying to bring a correc-
tion to a system that doesn't treat Ameri-
can citizens fairly. He was the man who
rooted out discrimination against women
in insurance rates, and he's the man who
rooted out discrimination against fine
young men in insurance rates. And he's
the one, also, who fought against the in-
discriminate overcharging of tobacco
farmers for insurance. And he's the man
who will take the same kind of fight to
Washington, to join with me and Bob
Morgan to give you an even better life
than you have already.
I agree with him. I think North Caro-
lina needs a United States Senator who
doesn't think that veterans benefits and
tobacco loans are the same as welfare.
I would like to say a few words to you
today about some of the problems that I
faced when I became your President. It's
not an easy job. It's a very complicated
responsibility. It requires good support
and understanding among the American
people, and it requires a certain human
sensitivity to people's needs.
I felt when I became President that the
farmers of our Nation were approaching
a time of repetition of the devastating
years of the Hoover Depression. Prices
were going down; uncertainty prevailed
in farm markets. We needed a new agri-
cultural bill to give farmers some security,
some sureness about the future, some sta-
bility in their lives, and a right to produce
food and fiber and other products that
help the American consumer to have low
prices and high quality.
The agriculture bill of 1977, passed by
the Democratic Congress, has brought
that improvement already to farmers'
lives. It didn't go into effect until last Oc-
tober 1. Nineteen hundred and seventy-
seven, in spite of the very lowest prices
we've had in a long time, saw a world's
record in the export of farmers' products
overseas-$24 billion in exports in foreign
markets.
Your number one export product is to-
bacco. Georgia's number one export
product is tobacco. But we also combine
that with the export of wheat, soybeans,
cotton, and other basic crops, to give the
rest of the world good, stable prices and
high-quality products and to put our farm-
ers back on the road to prosperity. That
was a record year. But I predict today,
and I believe my prediction will come
true, that we'll see a new record set in
1978 in the export of American farm
products overseas.
I was concerned, also, about the low
family incomes of farmers. And under the
new legislation passed last year, imple-
mented for the first time this year, we will
see net farm income, income after ex-
penses, increase 25 percent-no less than
$52 billion more in the farmers' pockets,
that will go to make everybody have a bet-
ter life.
I would say that one of the most impor-
tant problems that I have at this time is
inflation. This is the kind of secret robbery
that hurts every American citizen, every
American family.
I'm determined to do what I can to
control inflation. We have been bringing
1387
