Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 17
an improvement in growth where that can
be achieved without rekindling inflation
in order to reduce extremes of balance of
payments surpluses and deficits. This will
reduce destabilizing exchange rate move-
ments. Improved growth will help to re-
duce protectionist pressures. We need it
also to encourage the flow of private in-
vestment, on which economic progress de-
pends; we will seek to reduce impedi-
ments to private investment, both domes-
tically and internationally. Better growth
is needed to ensure that the free world
is able to develop to meet the expecta-
tions of its citizens and the aspirations of
the developing countries.
3. A program of different actions by
countries that face different conditions is
needed to assure steady non-inflationary
growth. In countries whose balance of
payments situation and inflation rate does
not impose special restrictions, this re-
quires a faster rise in domestic demand.
In countries where rising prices and costs
are creating strong pressures, this means
taking new measures against inflation.
-Canada reaffirmed its intention,
within the limits permitted by the need
to contain and reduce inflation, to achieve
higher growth of employment and an in-
crease in output of up to 5%.
-As a contribution to avert the world-
wide disturbances of economic equi-
equi-
librium the German Delegation has indi-
cated that by the end of August it will
propose to the legislative bodies additional
and quantitatively substantial measures
up to 1 p.c. of GNP, designed to achieve
a significant strengthening of demand and
a higher rate of growth. The order of
magnitude will take account of the ab-
sorptive capacity of the capital market
and the need to avoid inflationary pres-
sures.
-The President of the French Repub-
lic has indicated that, while pursuing its
policy of reduction of the rate of infla-
tion, the French Government agrees, as a
contribution to the common effort, to in-
crease by an amount of about 0.5% of
G.N.P. the deficit of the budget of the
State for the year 1978.
-The Italian Prime Minister has in-
dicated that the Government undertakes
to raise the rate of economic growth in
1979 by 1.5 percentage points with re-
spect to 1978. It plans to achieve this
goal by cutting public current expendi-
ture while stimulating investments with
the aim of increasing employment in a
non-inflationary context.
-The Prime Minister of Japan has
referred to the fact that his Government
is striving for the attainment of the real
growth target for fiscal year 1978, which
is about 1.5 percentage points higher than
the performance of the previous year,
mainly through the expansion of domestic
demand. He has further expressed his de-
termination to achieve the said target by
taking appropriate measures as necessary.
In August or September he will determine
whether additional measures are needed.
-The United Kingdom, having
achieved a major reduction in the rate of
inflation and improvement in the bal-
ance of payments has recently given a
fiscal stimulus equivalent to rather over
1% of G.N.P. The Government intends
to continue the fight against inflation so
as to improve still further the prospects
for growth and employment.
-The President of the United States
stated that reducing inflation is essential
to maintaining a healthy U.S. economy
and has therefore become the top pri-
ority of U.S. economic policy. He identi-
fied the major actions that have been
taken and are being taken to counter in-
flation in the United States: Tax cuts
originally proposed for fiscal year 1979
have now been reduced by $10 billion;
government expenditure projections for
1978 and 1979 have been reduced; a very
1311
