Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 26
will make Federal school-based programs States and the solidarity of the NATO
more effective.
This transfer will not change the special
relationships between the Government
and Indian tribes and Indian people in
any way. These relationships include
Federal trust responsibilities, Indian self-
determination, and Indian preference in
hiring. My goal is to improve the delivery
of education services to Indians while
maintaining these special relationships.
It is especially important that we main-
tain educational services to Indians with-
out interruption, protect their civil rights,
preserve the integrity of the education
programs, and strengthen participation of
parents, tribes, and Indian people in the
education of their youth. A clear recogni-
tion of the importance of these issues will
help us achieve an orderly, phased trans-
fer of the BIA programs to the new de-
partment, while protecting the interests of
Indian people. I expect and hope that In-
dian tribes and Indian people will work
with my Reorganization Project staff to
assure that these objectives are met.
Throughout the Nation, our educa-
tional systems are facing important
challenges. For the first time, the new
department will permit a coordinated and
high-level response to these challenges. I
ask Indian tribes and Indian people to
join with us in shaping a new department
of education that is responsive to their
concerns and worthy of their support.
Arms Embargo Against Turkey
Statement by the White House Press Secretary
Following Senate Action. July 25, 1978
The President is gratified at the strong
bipartisan support in the Senate of the
administration's request for lifting the
Turkish arms embargo. This is a con-
structive and statesmanlike action that
will strengthen the security of the United
Alliance. It is an action that we believe
is in the best interest of the people of
Greece, of Turkey, and of Cyprus. We
value both allies and respect the contribu-
tion they make to the strength of the
West. We wish to do everything possible
to help them maintain strong democratic
societies, strong economies, and their abil-
ity to make a significant contribution to
the defense of a very important segment
of the NATO area.
We look forward to accelerated prog-
ress toward settlement of problems that
have persisted in the Eastern Mediterra-
nean for far too long. We desire to see all
peoples of the region work in harmony
to settle issues that have drawn them
apart.
The size of this vote indicates the grow-
ing realization that the embargo has
outlived its usefulness. The Senate action
today can only encourage and enhance the
positive developments of the past few
days. The President hopes that the House
next week will act to further encourage
this progress.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at 5:35 p.m. to reporters assembled
in the Briefing Room at the White House. As
printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
General Services Administration
Memorandum From the President.
July 24, 1978
Memorandum for Jay Solomon, Adminis-
trator of General Services
Subject: Allegations Regarding Opera-
tions of the General Services Adminis-
tration
Corruption in government is intoler-
able. For that reason I am deeply dis-
turbed by the allegations of wrongdoing
1337
