Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 10
of the Endangered Species Act while al-
lowing flexibility which many perceived
to be necessary. I congratulate Senators
John Culver, Jennings Randolph, Howard
Baker, and Malcolm Wallop and Con-
gressmen John Murphy, Robert Leggett,
John Dingell, David Bowen, and Ed For-
sythe for their hard work, especially in
the hurried last hours of the 95th Con-
gress.
My administration will make every ef-
fort to implement these amendments prop-
erly and to work with the Congress to
secure continued authorization for the
Endangered Species Act in the future.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2899 is Public Law 95-
632, approved November 10.
Psychotropic Substances Act
of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2399 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
Today I am pleased to sign S. 2399,
which enables the United States Govern-
ment to meet the obligations contained
in the Convention on Psychotropic Sub-
stances.
The United States played a key role
in the drafting of the convention in
1971. The treaty sets up a system for con-
trolling drugs such as amphetamines and
barbiturates similar to the existing sys-
tem for narcotics. The passage of S. 2399
ensures that we will be able to fulfill all
our obligations under the convention and
work more effectively with other govern-
ments to curb the illegal trafficking of
these drugs.
The treaty must now be ratified, and
I look forward to working with the Sen-
ate to see that this is done early in the
96th Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2399 is Public Law 95-
633, approved November 10.
Congressional Visit to the
People's Republic of China
Announcement of the Visit by a Bipartisan
Congressional Delegation. November 10,
1978
The Chinese People's Institute of For-
eign Affairs of the People's Republic of
China has invited a bipartisan congres-
sional delegation to visit China during
November.
The delegation will depart Novem-
ber 10 and return November 27. The
group will be led by Senator Edmund S.
Muskie, Democrat of Maine, who will be
accompanied by his wife.
Other members of the group include
Senators Bob Packwood (R-Oreg.),
Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Dick Stone
(D-Fla.), Representative Butler Der-
rick (D-S.C.), Tom Bevill (D-Ala.), Tim
Lee Carter (R-Ky.), and James Scheuer
(D-N.Y.), who will be accompanied by
their wives, and Representative Wyche
Fowler (D-Ga.), who is single and will be
joined by his father.
The Congressmen will be accompanied
by Frank Moore, Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Congressional Liaison, and his
wife; David Dean, Department of State,
former Deputy Chief of Mission, Peking;
Madeleine Albright, National Security
Council; and Richard Faulk, Depart-
ment of State.
Since the first congressional delegation
went to the People's Republic of China
in 1972, more than 100 Members of Con-
gress have visited China.
The exchange relationship fulfills that
part of the Shanghai Communique in
which both sides pledged to foster
broader understanding and engage in
cultural and scientific exchanges.
This will be the third congressional
delegation to visit China in 1978.
2003
