Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of this culture, which depends upon sub-
sistence hunting, and its availability for
study, enhance the historic and scientific
values of the natural objects protected
herein because of the ongoing interaction
of the subsistence culture with those ob-
jects. Accordingly, the opportunity for
local residents to engage in subsistence
hunting is a value to be protected and will
continue under the administration of the
monument.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects to be pro-
tected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section
2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225,
16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there
are hereby set apart and reserved as the
Gates of the Arctic National Monument
all lands, including submerged lands, and
waters owned or controlled by the United
States within the boundaries of the area
depicted as the Gates of the Arctic Na-
tional Monument on the map numbered
GAAR-90,011 attached to and forming a
part of this Proclamation. The area re-
served consists of approximately 8,220,000
acres, and is the smallest area compatible
with the proper care and management of
the objects to be protected. Lands, includ-
ing submerged lands, and waters within
these boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument
upon
upon acquisition of title
thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
tion, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing withdrawal,
reservation or appropriation, including
any withdrawal under Section 17 (d) (1)
of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1)); however,
the national monument shall be the dom-
inant reservation. Nothing in this Proc-
lamation is intended to modify or revoke
the terms of the Memorandum of Under-
standing dated September 1, 1972, entered
into between the State of Alaska and the
United States as part of the negotiated
settlement of Alaska v. Morton, Civil No.
A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint filed
April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population
if necessary for reasons of public safety,
2124
