Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 15
make sure that our Nation is greater be-
cause I've been President.
I've not given up on it. But it's too
early to make that judgment.
MRS. CARTER. I think he's a great Presi-
dent. I think he's going to be a great
President. He's strong and courageous
and competent. And I think people al-
ready see that he fights for what he be-
lieves in. He doesn't worry about political
consequences. I just think he's a great
President already.
THE PRESIDENT. You can see why I
love her. [Laughter]
MS. WALTERS. I can see why there are
many people who are going to be partic-
ularly happy that you joined this inter-
view. I wish you happy holidays, and I
thank you for being with us today.
THE PRESIDENT. Same to you, Barbara.
Thank you.
MRS. CARTER. I enjoyed it.
NOTE: The interview began at 9:32 a.m. in
the Green Room at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast on the ABC tele-
vision network.
Provision of Electronic
Communications Services
by the United States
Postal Service
Announcement of an Administration Policy
Study. December 15, 1978
The President has directed Stuart
Eizenstat, his assistant for domestic pol-
icy, to conduct a formal study to deter-
mine the administration's policy regarding
the future role of the U.S. Postal Service
in providing services by electronic com-
munications. The study is directed to-
ward developing a policy by early spring
so that the administration will be pre-
pared to respond definitively to the con-
gressional committees which are expected
to address this matter during the next
session.
The following specific policy areas will
be addressed:
-the possible future benefits to the
Nation of Postal Service involvement
in electronic message services and
the potential costs to the Nation of
establishing Postal Service competi-
tion in an industry that has previous-
ly been restricted to private compe-
tition;
-the impact of electronic communica-
tions on postal operations and rev-
enues (both with and without USPS
electronic services) and the overall
economic impact, including potential
reduction in postal costs, of a USPS
investment in an electronic system;
and
-the options for interconnection be-
tween the Postal Service physical de-
livery network and the electronic
message industry.
An interagency coordinating commit-
tee, chaired by Eizenstat, met for the first
time on December 13 to define the issues
to be addressed to establish the adminis-
tration's position. The Postal Service is
represented on the committee and will
assist in obtaining the necessary data and
related considerations.
The Commerce Department's Nation-
al Telecommunications and Information
Administration, under Henry Geller, will
act as lead staff agency for the study.
Other departments and agencies repre-
sented on the committee are: the Depart-
ments of the Treasury, Justice, Agricul-
ture, Commerce, and Labor; the Council
of Economic Advisers; the Council on
Wage and Price Stability; the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration;
2263
