Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a greater worldwide participation and
compliance in nonproliferation treaty,
but in other areas such as conventional
arms restraint, where the President has
been the one to take the leadership, not
only by way of unilateral actions on
United States conventional arms sales
abroad, but certainly by way of appropri-
ately initiating consultation with our allies
and on a bilateral basis with the Soviet
Union.
And of course, we have, as we've re-
ferred to, the very important SALT nego-
tiations now, hopefully nearing fruition.
We also have the mutual balanced force
reduction efforts that I think we are on
the verge of, hopefully, breaking the im-
passe, say, that's characterized those talks
for the last 5 years. And, in addition, we
have a situation where the comprehensive
test ban treaty, hopefully, will also be
coming on line, where we can get a
mutually agreeable arrangement with the
Soviet Union and the British and our-
selves.
Now, the greatest problem, of course,
is to get not only participation with re-
gard to participation in the nonprolifera-
tion treaty but to get meaningful safe-
guards, to get meaningful methods of
internationally policing those agreements
so that they have enough teeth and via-
bility to be credible. How do we monitor
the problems of the traffic in terms of the
sources for uranium? How do we put
limitations on reprocessing of plants?
And I think, here again, the President,
with regard to his efforts with the Ger-
man Government and the French Gov-
ernment in those sales that were involved
in Brazil, for example, and also in Pakis-
tan-very courageous leadership by the
President, I think-has very substantially
reduced the momentum that was threat-
ening to be completely out of control.
We still have some extremely difficult
problems with regard to disposal of waste,
with regard to continually working out
some sort of international arrangements
where there can be assured supplies. And,
of course, we had the incredibly difficult
problem of working out sufficient progress
in these areas to bring enough interna-
tional public opinion pressure on govern-
ments like the French and the Indian and
the Chinese, so that we have not only an
arms control regime that is effective but
that we have maximum participation and
involvement. And I don't think one could
be working harder in those areas than the
President. And we can only do whatever
possible in the Congress to support those
efforts.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me add one com-
ment. The problem with nonproliferation
is that we cannot stand in the way in our
own country or in foreign countries of the
development of peaceful use of atomic
power to produce electricity and for other
reasons. We support this program. But
there needs to be a commitment on the
part of a broad range of countries, not
just us by ourselves, to prevent that from
resulting in nuclear explosives anywhere.
So, under our own initiative, we now
have 50 nations, at the top levels of gov-
ernment, even including heads of state,
working on what we call an international
fuel cycle study, nuclear fuel cycle study.
And this has been going on now for, I
think, about 15 months. And out of this
will come some definite recommendations
and commitments.
These nations, by the way, include the
Soviet Union, all our European allies,
South Africa, that we deliberately brought
into the discussions because we were con-
cerned about their taking the products of
regular powerplants and turning them
into explosives. This is a new thing that
hasn't been well publicized. But it's an
ongoing program, and we've been very
pleased with that.
2200
