Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. That was not in the
form of a question, but let me say this:
Our administration, primarily under the
leadership of Robert Strauss, the Special
Trade Representative, has been laboring
ever since I've been in office to conclude
a
multilateral trade negotiation in
Europe, to make sure that restraints on
shipments from our country to other coun-
tries in the world are fair and equitable
and balanced. And we have made bi-
lateral agreements—that is, between our
country and just one other country-to
protect American manufacturers in sev-
eral areas of production-color television
sets, shoes, textiles, and so forth.
We'll continue to do this. But overall,
we believe that our Nation is best pro-
tected and our workers have a better
prospect for progress, higher wages, more
jobs, if these international protective de-
vices in the form of tariffs and other ob-
stacles are reduced and not raised.
Our country only exports about 7 per-
cent of our gross national product.
There's not a deep commitment on the
part of manufacturers in this country to
depend upon exports, because we have
such an enormous domestic market. A
country like Japan has many, many more
times of their portion of their production
destined for export. Germany exports be-
tween 25 and 30 percent of their gross
national product.
But what we're trying to do is to lower
trade barriers to make more equal those
that have discriminated against American
production in the future. And there is a
difficult negotiating effort being carried
on now.
Bob Strauss is reasonably confident, and
we'll continue this effort. We want to have
more jobs in our country, more sales over-
seas, less protective barriers, and equality
in treatment, and no dumping of foreign
goods on American markets. That's what
we're working for.
sir.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. Yes,
Q. Thank you. My name is Jack
Scott from the State of Louisiana, the 8th
District. I'm a member of the Louisiana
legislature in Louisiana. And I'd like to
present a viewpoint that hasn't been
stressed as much as I would like it here
today.
You know, the community I'm from is
a small town. We don't have any giant
corporations; we don't have a lot of illicit,
obscene profits, and things of that sort,
where I come from. But one thing we
believe in, and where I do come from is
we feel like an individual, a business, a
government, what have you, cannot really
spend more of its resources than it has. It
seems to be a very simple principle. And
I'd like to go into it in a little greater
depth.
You know, so many people that have
spoken today have seemed to blame a
philosophy of trying to balance the budg-
et for inflation, as though that's the
status quo. But, ladies and gentlemen, we
haven't had a balanced budget in this
country in 10 years. We've only had one
in the last 20 years in this country. So,
balanced budgeting and applying the
principle of your dollars have to somehow
pay for themselves has not been the status
quo in this country for many, many
years. So, you certainly can't blame today's
inflation on that philosophy.
Now, I'd like to go through what his-
tory can instruct us just a little bit. We had
the first $100 billion budget in our coun-
try's history in 1946. It took us about 176
years to reach that point. Then just 24
years later we had, in 1970, our first $200
2210
