Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
what the Ways and Means Committee
advocated.
In the Senate, as you know, the Church-
Long bill calls for 17 cents. If something
like that should prevail over my objection,
this would really be the only agricultural
product where you set the prevailing na-
tionwide price to accommodate the high-
est cost of production anywhere in the
Nation. Even sugarcane producers in
Hawaii, you know, would find that the 17
cents to be excessive, for instance. And of
course, sugar beets, you can produce sugar
for probably less than 15 cents.
I've never promised any farm group,
even when I was eagerly seeking their
support in the campaign, that I would
guarantee them a profit. And I think
that this level that I've described is ade-
quate.
FARMER PROTESTS
Q. Mr. President, Jerry Urdahl from
Wisconsin. What's your opinion of the
American Agriculture Movement?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's all right.
This is a movement that originated last
year because of despair and a feeling that
top Government officials and the general
public did not understand the legitimate
grievances and concerns-sometimes ac-
tual suffering-that existed in the farm
families of our country.
Whether or not you would approve of
blocking traffic with tractors-and I don't
approve of that kind of law violations;
that was a rare occurrence-I think the
dramatization of the farmers' plight to the
entire public, indeed the entire world, was
a very constructive thing. It helped me to
get from the Congress and helped many
Congress Members to vote for an excel-
lent 1977 farm bill. And I think it kept
vividly in the minds of the American peo-
ple that the farmers are a crucial element
in our economic strength and need to be
protected in the future.
So, whether you agree with specific
occurrences that were highly publicized
and exaggerated or not is beside the point.
I think the American farm movement did
a great service to agriculture and to the
country.
TERRORISM
Q. Mr. President, getting away from
agriculture, but since your meetings on
world peace, there was a threat that there
would be now terrorism brought to the
United States. I'm Bob Miller from Ohio.
In our highly populated area, there has
been some concern on this. What do you
visualize?
THE PRESIDENT. There's always a
threat of terrorism. And I don't know yet
what the Mideast peace proposal will do
toward the trend.
But, in recent months, in the last 6 or
9 months-I've forgotten the exact period
of time-the incidence of terrorism world-
wide had dropped. And this was espe-
cially true of the incidence of terrorism
tions throughout the world.
against Americans and American installa-
There are deep feelings about the Mid-
east, as you know, on both sides. And I've
seen threats that the oil fields in Saudi
Arabia would be attacked or that Ameri-
can installations around the world would
be attacked because of the Camp David
accords. We'll continue to be vigilant
about it.
One of the major conclusions that was
reached at Bonn at the summit confer-
ence which was not highly publicized was
that the seven nations agreed for the first
time that if airplanes were hijacked, for
instance, that we would exert the most
stringent economic sanctions, through the
right to land and take off airplanes, to
have air service, against any country that
harbored terrorists or hijackers or who
kept captured planes in their territory.
We've since contacted every nation in
the world which has commercial air serv-
1676
