Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Secretary of the Interior shall
pro-
mulgate such regulations as are appropri-
ate, including regulation of the opportu-
nity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle by
local residents. The Secretary may close
the national monument, or any portion
thereof, to subsistence uses of a particular
fish, wildlife or plant population if neces-
sary
for reasons of public safety, adminis-
tration, or to ensure the natural stability
or continued viability of such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:06 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Noatak National Monument are printed in
the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 5, 1978.
Wrangell-St. Elias National
Monument
Proclamation 4625. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
An area of southeastern Alaska adja-
cent to the International Boundary with
Canada contains a variety of landforms,
including high mountain peaks and steep
canyons, with associated geological, eco-
logical, biological, and historical phe-
nomena of great importance.
The area includes the greatest assem-
blage of mountain peaks over 14,500 feet
in elevation found in the Nation, the Na-
tion's second highest mountain (Mount
St. Elias, at 18,008 feet), several inactive
and one active volcano (Mount Wran-
gell), and an active glacial complex, in-
cluding some of the largest and longest
glaciers in the Nation. The high mountain
peaks and glaciers offer an excellent op-
portunity for glaciological studies. The
Malaspina Glacier is listed on the Na-
tional Registry of Natural Landmarks.
Thermal features in the area include
the mud cones and hot springs on the
western base of Mount Drum. More com-
plete undeveloped river systems exist here
than in any other land area in the Nation,
with more than 1,000 miles of powerfully
running, silt-laden rivers.
Biologically unique subspecies of flora
and fauna have developed in the Bremner
and Chitina River Valleys. As a result of
their isolation by virtue of ice fields and
the Copper River, these areas are virtually
ecological islands in which development
of subspecies is largely unaffected by inter-
change with outside plant and animal
species.
Wildlife populations include the largest
population of wild mountain sheep in
North America, moose, mountain goat,
and a non-migratory population of cari-
bou. The area is the only part of Alaska
where four of the five identifiable forms
of bear occur, including the interior
grizzly, the coastal brown bear, the black
bear, and the rare, blue-color phase of
the black bear called glacier bear. Along
the coast of the Gulf of Alaska bald eagles
and a large and varied shorebird popula-
tion occur.
Cultural development within the area is
of interest to archeologists and historians.
Three major culture areas converge here,
each with distinctive cultural patterns:
2138
