Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
service in order to permit alterations or
repairs.
"(2) while temporarily assigned for
duty to a vessel, ship-based staff, or ship-
based aviation unit pursuant to orders is-
sued by competent authority and serving
in a ship whose primary mission is accom-
plished underway. The period of service
shall include periods not to exceed the
first 30 consecutive days of further tempo-
rary additional duty ashore from the ship.
"(3) while permanently or temporarily
assigned for duty to a vessel or ship-based
staff pursuant to orders issued by a com-
petent authority and serving in a ship
whose primary mission is accomplished in
port, but only during periods while the
ship is away from its home port for at
least 30 consecutive days.
"(b) For the purpose of this section, the
word "vessel" or "ship" shall mean a self-
propelled vessel that is in an active status,
in commission or in service and is
equipped with berthing and messing facil-
ities.
"Sec. 203. The Secretaries concerned
(within the meaning of section 101 (5) of
title 37, United States Code) with respect
to personnel of the uniformed service
within their respective departments, are
hereby authorized to prescribe such sup-
plementary regulations, not inconsistent
herewith, as they may deem necessary or
desirable for carrying out the provisions of
sections 305 and 305a of title 37 and this
Executive Order. Such regulations shall
be uniform for all the services to the fullest
extent possible.
"Sec. 204. Enlisted members entitled to
receive basic pay shall be entitled to re-
ceive, additionally, pay at the rates pre-
scribed by section 305 (a) of title 37 of
the United States Code while on duty at
places that are outside the 48 contiguous
States and the District of Columbia and
that are designated for this purpose by
the Secretary of Defense or, in the case of
enlisted members of the Coast Guard
when it is not operating as a service in
the Navy, by the Secretary of Transporta-
tion. Subject to provisions of section 305
of title 37 of the United States Code, an
enlisted member who is permanently as-
signed to duty at a place so designated is
entitled to receive that pay during a
period of authorized leave, temporary
additional duty, temporary duty, or hospi-
talization or while on an operational air-
craft flight, but not more than 30 days
while he is away from that place. Enlisted
members shall be entitled to special pay
under this section when attached to ships
undergoing repair and overhaul in desig-
nated foreign-duty areas for extended pe-
riods when entitlement to special pay for
sea duty has been terminated. Such en-
listed members shall be entitled to special
pay for sea duty under the same condi-
tions as an enlisted member on temporary
additional duty or temporary duty in that
designated foreign-duty area.
"Sec. 205. Unless otherwise entitled to
special pay in accord with the second sen-
tence of section 204 hereof, during periods
spent on temporary additional duty or
temporary duty or on operational air-
craft flights, pay in accord with section
204 shall accrue to enlisted members only
for periods of eight continuous days or
more in duration at one or more places
designated, including the dates of arrival
at and the dates of departure from those
places.
"Sec. 206. (a) No enlisted member
shall be entitled under this order to re-
ceive both career sea pay and pay for duty
prescribed in sections 204 and 205 hereof
for the same period of time.
"(b) No enlisted member shall be en-
titled to receive career sea pay while in
receipt of monetary allowance in lieu of
rations, except during a period when
messing facilities are temporarily out of
operation to permit alterations or repairs
1923
