Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 12
When did you decide to come here, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Although the memory
of Martin Luther King has always been
extremely important in inspiring people
to pursue the goals that his life was dedi-
cated to accomplish, there's been a grow-
ing realization on a worldwide basis of
the significance of what he espoused and
what he gave his life to accomplish.
As Andy and Coretta were just point-
ing out, his Nobel Peace Prize speech de-
plored poverty, racism, and war. And that
still is a list of the most significant chal-
lenges to any leader in the world.
And I wanted to come here with his
widow, Coretta, and with Andy Young,
one of his strong supporters, who was here
at the time of the tragedy, to let the peo-
ple of America know and let the people
of the world know that I value what Mar-
tin Luther King was and what his memory
is, not only for myself as a leader of a
great country but among the leaders of
the world.
REPORTERS. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
11:45 a.m. at the Lorraine Motel after he had
laid a wreath at the site. He was accompanied
by Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr., and U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Andrew
Young.
Commission on Civil Rights
Nomination of Louis Nuñez to Be Staff
Director. December 11, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Louis Nuñez, of Silver
Spring, Md., to be Staff Director for the
Commission on Civil Rights. He would
replace John Buggs, resigned.
Nuñez was born October 20, 1931, in
New York City. He graduated from City
College of New York in 1953. He served
in the U.S. Army in Korea and did
graduate work at City College and New
York University in education and public
administration.
Nuñez has been at the Commission on
Civil Rights since 1972, serving as
Deputy Staff Director until January 1978.
Since then he has been Acting Staff
Director.
Prior to joining the Commission on
Civil Rights, Nuñez was national execu-
tive director of ASPIRA of America, a
national, nonprofit organization providing
education and leadership development
programs for Puerto Rican youth.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
DECEMBER 12, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body.
I do not have an opening statement, so,
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International]?
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, can you confirm re-
ports that a tentative agreement has been
reached on SALT with the Soviets, that
you may meet at the summit with Brezh-
nev in January? And also, if these are true,
can you say what caused the break-
through?
THE PRESIDENT. We've made good
progress on SALT. I can't say that we've
reached agreement. A statement will be
made later on today by the State Depart-
ment and by the Soviets simultaneously
about a possible meeting of the Foreign
Ministers.
I think that there has been steady prog-
ress made in the last, almost 2 years. I
2219
