Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Kennedy was elected and assassinated,
Johnson was elected and discredited, Nix-
on was elected and disgraced, Ford was
appointed and defeated. Would you like
to be the first President to finish two
terms since 1960?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I haven't de-
cided that yet. I would like to be worthy
of that honor, and if I decided to run
for reelection in 1980, I intend to win.
But I can see why it's difficult for a Presi-
dent to serve two terms. You are the
personification of problems, and when
you address a problem, even successfully,
you become identified with it. And that's
what the responsibility of the Presidency
is.
MR. MOYERS. Is that why, Mr. Presi-
dent, this disorder has been growing
around the Presidency? For almost 15
years now, there is a sense of almost as
if the American people or a substantial
representative of the American people
have silently withdrawn their support
from the Presidency, no longer look to it
as the symbol of the Nation as a whole.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's true.
But there were some special circumstances
that relate to those Presidents you men-
tioned. Kennedy was assassinated. I don't
think that was any reflection on the Presi-
dency itself. It was just a tragic occurrence
that I hope will never be repeated.
Johnson was, I think, looked upon by
the country as primarily the one respon-
sible for the continuation of the Vietnam
war, and the war was around his neck
like an anvil, pulling him down. I think
he did the best he could to terminate the
war, and I know he suffered personally
because of the loss of American lives in
Vietnam.
Nixon, of course, his successor, had the
special problem with Watergate, and
Ford was identified with the pardon of
Nixon and didn't have long enough to
get himself established, I think, to stay
in office.
So, there have been special circum-
stances, but I don't believe that it is in-
herent in the office that you would be
forced out of office because of some ad-
verse occurrence.
MR. MOYERS. You don't agree with one
of your predecessors that it's a splendid
misery?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think that was
President Nixon who said it was a splen-
did misery.
MR. MOYERS. Quoting before him some
earlier it was Adams, I think—
THE PRESIDENT. Before Watergate,
yes.
I might point out that it's voluntary. No-
No, I've not been miserable in the job.
body in my memory has been forced to
serve as President. And as a matter of
fact, in spite of the challenges and prob-
criticisms, I really enjoy it.
lems and, sometimes, disappointments and
MR. MOYERS. What's the hardest part?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the hardest
part is the attempt to correlate sharply
conflicting ideas from worthy people. The
easy problems don't arrive on this desk.
You know, the easy problems are solved
in the life of an individual person or with-
in a family or perhaps in a city hall or a
county courthouse or, at the worst, in a
State capitol. The ones that can't be solved
after all those intense efforts arrive here
in the White House to be solved, and
they're quite difficult ones. And I think
the attempt to correlate those conflicting
ideas probably bring about the most
serious challenge to a President.
MR. MOYERS. You said not long ago,
"I feel like my life now is one massive mul-
tiple-choice examination, where things
are put in front of me and I have to make
the difficult choice." Can you give me an
example of that?
2016
