Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 5
Negotiations are continuing to conclude a Combined Federal Campaign
comprehensive maritime boundary and
resource agreement between Canada and
the United States. Congressional approval
of the agreement reflects the widespread
support in the United States both for
maintenance of reciprocal fishing with
Canada and for the kind of comprehen-
sive, cooperative, long-term arrangements
now under negotiation.
I hope that our country and Canada
can now immediately proceed to restore
traditional patterns of reciprocal fishing.
The interruption at the beginning of this
month in these traditional reciprocal fish-
eries, which have continued since the 18th
century, has created hardships for fisher-
men of both countries. Resumption of re-
ciprocal fishing can only help the intensive
efforts of both Governments to work out
permanent arrangements for sharing and
jointly managing our common fisheries re-
sources, arrangements which would in-
clude mechanisms for resolving the very
questions which gave rise to the present
interruption.
I believe that the negotiations to con-
clude a comprehensive maritime agree-
ment now being carried out by my Special
Representative, Lloyd Cutler, and his
Canadian counterpart offer the firm
promise of a strengthened, cooperative
maritime relationship which will bring
benefits to the fishermen of both coun-
tries that neither country can provide on
its own. Such a long-term agreement
would be in the tradition of our close, co-
operative relationship with Canada. In
signing this act, I have asked the Secretary
of State and Lloyd Cutler to make every
effort with Canada to restore reciprocal
fishing as soon as possible so that the im-
portant long-term maritime negotiations
may proceed unimpeded.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12571 is Public Law
95-314, approved July 1.
Memorandum From the President.
June 30, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
I am pleased to tell you that Joseph A.
Califano, Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare, has agreed to serve as
Chairman of the Combined Federal
Campaign for the National Capital Area
this fall.
This campaign, which begins in Sep-
tember, combines the solicitation efforts
of the United Way of the National Capi-
tal Area, the National Health Agencies,
and the International Service Agencies.
In this single drive we will seek to do our
share to meet the needs of more than 150
local, national and international health,
welfare and social service agencies.
The needs of the voluntary organiza-
tions supported by the Combined Federal
Campaign are great. These organizations
perform essential services in helping the
disadvantaged, in serving youth and the
aged, in healing the sick, and in helping
those in need overseas. CFC gives all of us
who are Federal employees, whether civil-
ian or military, a unique opportunity to
pledge our help to people in our commu-
nity, our nation, and around the world—
a pledge made more convenient by the
availability of voluntary payroll deduc-
tions.
I request that you serve personally as
Chairman of the campaign in your orga-
nization and that you appoint one of your
top assistants as your Vice Chairman.
Please advise Secretary Califano of the
person you designate as Vice Chairman.
I am confident that Secretary Califano
will have your wholehearted support in
1235
