Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
tional leaders themselves to work out the
differences between them.
I pray and I hope the whole Nation,
the whole world will pray that we do not
fail, because failure could result in a new
conflict in the Middle East which could
severely damage the security of our own
country.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Mr. President, you're said to be very
deeply concerned about the dollar. Is
there a dollar crisis? What are you going
to do about it? And why haven't you
done something yet? And I have a fol-
lowup. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am deeply con-
cerned about the dollar. And I have asked
Secretary of Treasury Mike Blumenthal
and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve,
Bill Miller, and others to consult with one
another and to give me advice on steps
that can be taken by them and by me.
There are some factors that are encour-
aging in the long run. Recent monthly
data have shown that our balance-of-
trade deficit is going down. I believe that
we've made good progress in seeing an
increase in the economic growth of other
nations overseas so that they are better
able now and in the future to buy our
goods than they have been in the past,
when we were growing fast and we could
afford to buy their goods.
The Congress can contribute. The
single most important thing that Congress
can do to control inflation and also to
ease the pressures on the dollar and to
reduce our severe adverse trade balance
is to pass an energy bill. I've done every-
thing in the world that I could do and
so have my Cabinet members and all my
staff members and many hundreds of
people around the country to induce Con-
gress to go ahead and act on a compre-
hensive energy bill. They have not yet
done so. They've been working on it since
April of 1977. We still have hopes that
the Congress will act successfully.
Another underlying problem, of course,
is inflation, and we are dealing with that
on many levels. One, of course, is to hold
down the size of the Federal deficit. We've
made good progress there. I know that
when I ran for President in 1976, the Fed-
eral deficit was in the sixties of billions of
dollars. By 1978, it was down to the fifties
of billions of dollars; '79, the forties of
billions of dollars, low forties; and by the
1980 fiscal year, I am determined to have
it down in the thirties of billions of dollars.
We are eliminating excessive spending
and demonstrating to our country and the
rest of the world that we are determined
to hold down inflation. But it's a tenacious
thing. It would be erroneous for me to
insinuate to the American people that it's
easy and that we're going to solve it over-
night. Everybody has got to help. But if
we can top it out, the inflationary curve,
this year, I think that will send a good
signal to the world monetary markets.
So, we have a combination of problems,
some of which we are addressing success-
fully, some of which are very difficult, but
we are all working in concert. And I be-
lieve that the underlying
underlying economic
strength of our Nation will prevent a fur-
ther deterioration in the status of our
Nation and a further deterioration in the
dollar, particularly if the Congress will
act and if we can act in this administra-
tion to address those questions that I've
just described.
CAMP DAVID MEETING
Q. Mr. President, back to the summit
and whatever preparations may have
been made. I want to push one step
further, if I may. Is there an agreement
or an arrangement or even a slight ar-
rangement already in place before you go
into this big meeting?
1441
