July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
base and many of their cities had been
thoroughly destroyed by the devastation
of war.
The fact that Europe and Japan are
now industrial and economic giants is, of
course, a tribute to themselves, to their
determination and their resourcefulness,
but also a tribute to the wisdom of the
United States in giving them help after
the Second World War. Again, in Europe
as in Japan this is a tribute to the demo-
cratic system.
In the summit conference, following
my state visit to Germany, we will con-
tinue the process of cooperation, consul-
tation, the sharing of problems and op-
portunities, the establishment of goals
among the seven industrialized nations.
We will discuss a broad range of econom-
ic issues, and I will be able to renew my
own friendships with the leaders of the
other countries, to explain the position,
the attitude, the special problems of the
United States of America, to outline our
accomplishments, and to learn the same
information from each of them.
We recognize that we have a responsi-
bility to strengthen our own systems, to
give a better life for our own people, to
cooperate more closely. But at the same
harmony with the executive leaders of
our countries. And I believe it will also
be an educational process for the general
public who observe our actions and our
statements from around the world.
I leave here, finally, with a great pride
in my own country, the United States of
America, confidence in our system, con-
fidence in our economic and political and
military strength, recognizing the position
of leadership that has been carved out
by the achievements of a free society.
I will express first my friendship for
the German people and then express my
friendship through their leaders of those
who live in Italy, France, Great Britain,
Japan, Canada.
This is a sober time. It's one of reas-
sessment, not one of discouragement; one
of determination to improve the circum-
stances which we face. And as I leave on
this trip, representing the greatest nation
on Earth, I hope and I pray that I can
represent the people of the United States
well. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 8:35
a.m. on the South Lawn of the White House.
time we are not selfish in our attitudes, be- Department of Energy
cause history has taught us the dangers
of economic chaos throughout the world
and the dangers of unlimited human suf-
fering caused by economic deprivation.
We don't expect to solve all the prob-
lems of the world, but we do expect to
leave the economic summit with a more
thorough understanding of the mutual
nature of our responsibilities, a renewed
commitment, a renewed confidence, a re-
newed common commitment and effort
to having a better future for our people.
We'll establish goals that will be edu-
cational among ourselves, that will in-
crease cooperation, that will let the parlia-
ments and the congresses work in closer
Nomination of Ruth C. Clusen To Be an
Assistant Secretary. July 13, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Ruth C. Clusen, of Green
Bay, Wis., to be an Assistant Secretary of
Energy. Her area of responsibility would
be environment.
Clusen was born June 11, 1922, in
Bruce, Wis. She received a B.S. from the
University of Wisconsin in 1945.
Clusen was a teacher from 1947 to
1951 and in 1957-58. She has been with
the League of Women Voters since 1946,
and served as president from 1974 to May
1978.
1268
