Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
nuclear aircraft carrier. The only con-
cerns that anyone has expressed to me is
that it might create additional work for
Congress in correcting an error that I
think they made, or that it might cause
me political problems in having vetoed a
bill and had a confrontation with
Congress.
I don't desire to do anything with Con-
gress but to cooperate with them. We are
working now in the House, which will
first take up the veto, since the bill origi-
nated in the House, to make sure that
we can sustain my veto on the basis of
its own merits. I don't see any reason to
link the building of a nuclear aircraft
carrier, which will be completed maybe
in 1987, with the approval of a conference
committee report on natural gas that's
been negotiated now for almost 16
months.
Q. Yes, sir, but are you confident some-
one up there might not see it?
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot guarantee
that nobody considers it, but I can tell
you this: It won't be the first problem
we've had with the natural gas bill.
[Laughter]
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, the Congress appears
bent on passing some sort of tuition tax
relief this year. I'd like to know what
your current position is now as regards
to Congress passing tuition tax relief for
parents with children in universities and
your position on parents with children in
parochial schools. Is it your intention to
veto any tuition tax relief that comes
down?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not favor the
tuition tax credit approach to college stu-
dents, and I even more strongly oppose
on constitutional grounds Government fi-
nancing of the elementary and secondary
schools which are privately operated.
On the tax bill, I am not satisfied with
the bill that the House has passed. It
does not meet the basic criteria that I set
for fairness, for equity, for simplicity, for
progressivity and the efficient enhance-
ment of capital investment funds.
A veto is a prerogative that a President
is given under the Constitution. It's not
an abnormal authority. It's one that
should be a routine part of the interrela-
tionship between the White House and
Capitol Hill. And it's not only a pleasure
to have that authority to make my own
leverage more effective but it's a duty
that falls on me. And I want to keep that
option open. And I reserve the right after
a bill gets on my desk to either veto it
or sign it. I have no reticence about veto-
ing a bill that I think is contrary to the
best interests of our country. My hope is
that Congress would pass a bill after close
consultation with us that would be
acceptable.
My position on the tax credits is clear.
I have not changed my position at all. I
don't think anybody's position on the tax
bill, the tax reduction bill, is clear. It is
very, very confused, and my hope is that
the Senate will correct some of the basic
errors that the House made; if not, that
in the conference committee the bill can
be made acceptable to me. If it's not ac-
ceptable to me, I will have no hesitancy
about vetoing it.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, during a recent in-
terview you made the point that both we
and the Chinese are patient on the sub-
ject of establishing full diplomatic rela-
tions. My question concerns the extent of
that patience on your part, whether now
it might be something indefinitely on the
back burner or something you would like
to see accomplished between now and,
let's say, the end of 1980?
1444
