Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
control and abatement of environmental
pollution are not used for any other pur-
pose unless permitted by law and specif-
ically approved by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
1-6. Compliance With Pollution Controls.
1-601. Whenever the Administrator or
the appropriate State, interstate, or local
agency notifies an Executive agency that
it is in violation of an applicable pollution
control standard (see Section 1-102 of this
Order), the Executive agency shall
promptly consult with the notifying
agency
and provide for its approval a plan
to achieve and maintain compliance with
the applicable pollution control standard.
This plan shall incude an implementation
schedule for coming into compliance as
soon as practicable.
1-602. The Administrator shall make
every effort to resolve conflicts regarding
such violation between Executive agencies
and, on request of any party, such conflicts
between an Executive agency and a State,
interstate, or a local agency. If the Ad-
ministrator cannot resolve a conflict, the
Administrator shall request the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
to resolve the conflict.
1-603. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall consider
unresolved conflicts at the request of the
Administrator. The Director shall seek
the Administrator's technological judg-
ment and determination with regard to
the applicability of statutes and regula-
tions.
1-604. These conflict resolution pro-
cedures are in addition to, not in lieu of,
other procedures, including sanctions, for
the enforcement of applicable pollution
control standards.
1-605. Except as expressly provided by
a Presidential exemption under this
Order, nothing in this Order, nor any
action or inaction under this Order, shall
be construed to revise or modify any ap-
plicable pollution control standard.
1-7. Limitation on Exemptions.
1-701. Exemptions from applicable
pollution control standards may only be
granted under statutes cited in Section
1-102(a) through 1-102(f) if the Presi-
dent makes the required appropriate stat-
utory determination: that such exemp-
tion is necessary (a) in the interest of
national security, or (b) in the para-
mount interest of the United States.
1-702. The head of an Executive
agency may, from time to time, recom-
mend to the President through the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget, that an activity or facility, or
uses thereof, be exempt from an appli-
cable pollution control standard.
1-703. The Administrator shall advise
the President, through the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget,
whether he agrees or disagrees with a
recommendation for exemption and his
reasons therefor.
1-704. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget must advise the
President within sixty days of receipt of
the Administrator's views.
1-8. General Provisions.
1-801. The head of each Executive
agency that is responsible for the con-
struction or operation of Federal facilities
outside the United States shall ensure that
such construction or operation complies
with the environmental pollution control
standards of general applicability in the
host country or jurisdiction.
1-802. Executive Order No. 11752 of
December 17, 1973, is revoked.
The White House,
October 13, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:40 p.m., October 13, 1978]
1768
