Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 6
members of the National Commission on
tem for the Agency for International De-
Social Security for 2-year terms. They velopment, and to submit the new system
are:
JAMES J. DILLMAN, a Sheboygan, Wis., attor-
ney, vice chairman of the Wisconsin Retire-
ment Fund board of trustees, and a member
of the Wisconsin Retirement Research Com-
mittee;
MILTON S. GWIRTZMAN, of Newton, Mass., an
author on tax policy and economic policy
and a practicing attorney;
DAVID H. RODGERS, of Spokane, Wash., deputy
commissioner of insurance for eastern Wash-
ington, formerly manager of the employee
benefits office of the Aetna Life Insurance
Co.
International Development and
Food Assistance Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 12222 Into Law.
October 6, 1978
I am today signing into law H.R.
12222, the International Development
and Food Assistance Act of 1978.
This legislation authorizes the appropri-
ation of $1,794 million for U.S. bilateral
and multilateral economic assistance for
fiscal year 1979 to carry forward our pro-
grams to encourage development in the
world's poor countries and to promote
peace and stability abroad. The bill en-
dorses the use of our foreign assistance
resources to meet the basic human needs
of poor people in developing countries
through a policy of equitable growth.
These provisions bring us closer to our
foreign policy goals, and I fully support
them.
However, H.R. 12222 contains a consti-
tutionally objectionable provision for a
legislative veto. The bill requires the
President to develop a new personnel sys-
to Congress for review by March 15, 1979.
The objectionable provision allows either
House of Congress to strike down the pro-
posed changes by adopting a disapproving
resolution up to 90 days after they are
submitted.
The provision for disapproval by either
House exemplifies the kind of unconsti-
tutional device to which I strongly ob-
jected in my June 21, 1978, message on
the legislative veto. As I noted in that
message, “. . . the legislative veto injects
the Congress into the details of adminis-
tering substantive programs and laws...."
and it infringes ". . . on the Executive's
constitutional duty to faithfully execute
the laws."
I agree that the Agency's personnel
management needs to be strengthened to
assure the success of our development as-
sistance programs. Accordingly, I am di-
Gilligan, to undertake an urgent study of
recting the Administrator of AID, Mr.
the Agency's personnel system. The study
will include appropriate recommendations
for revitalizing the system to meet AID's
special requirements, consistent with my
program for civil service reform.
The administration will advise and
consult the proper congressional commit-
tees throughout its review. New regula-
tions will be submitted to Congress by
March 15, 1979, as called for. The Ad-
ministrator of AID will implement the
new regulations at the end of the 90-day
congressional review period unless a
statute, subject to my approval under
Article I, Section 7 of the Constitution, is
enacted overturning them. This approach
ensures respect of congressional intent in a
way that is constitutionally appropriate.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12222 is Public Law
95-424, approved October 6.
1721
