Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
warded. They don't want to see someone
sitting next to them, loafing and incom-
petent, promoted and paid at the same
rate. So, what this new law will do is to let
us reward good employees, correct the de-
fects among those that are not very good,
inspire them to work harder or fire them
if they don't work, and let managers man-
age the Government, save you money,
give you better services. Everybody wins
all the way around.
I just want to mention one other thing,
since I'm in North Carolina and know
how you feel. My professional career, as
you know, was in the Navy. I was a sub-
marine officer, and I went to the U.S.
Naval Academy. I believe in a strong de-
fense. And as long as I and these men are
serving you in Washington, we're going
to have a strong defense-one so strong
that no one will dare to attack us with
any thought that they might be success-
ful. You can depend on that.
But there's another element of defense,
and that is strength through character.
We don't need to be a bully, trying to
push other people around. We don't need
to be combative, with a chip on our
shoulder at all times. And since I've been
in the White House, we have tried to
reach out to others, even some of those
who have not been quite so friendly with
us in the past.
We put our arms around the shoulders
of our close friends, who might be living
next to one another in a state of war, and
we've said, "Let's talk about the problems
of our people and bring peace to the
world." Sometimes this has been very un-
popular, even with some of you.
One of the most difficult decisions that
I've ever had to make in politics was to
deal with the Panamanian treaty ques-
tion. Some of you didn't like what we
did. I realize that. But we now have a
new spirit in Latin America, a strong,
friendly spirit of mutual respect-not a
great nation or a big brother looking down
on others, but one in which we've formed
a partnership to strengthen those ties of
friendship, democratic principles, preser-
vation of human rights. And with that
strength, we can keep out the spread of
communism in our own hemisphere.
We tried to deal fairly with the Turks
and the Greeks to bring peace to Cyprus
and to restore the damage that had been
done to NATO. And lately, we've
reached out to our friends, the Egyptians,
and our friends, the Israelis, to bring
them, for the first time in 30 years, after
four wars, to a state of peace and friend-
ship with open borders and trade and an
end to the terrible bloodshed that's
wreaked havoc in that area.
So, there is a combination of strong,
staunch military commitment on the one
hand, and a nation that's clean and decent
and a source of pride on the other hand,
where people can respect us and where
the true spirit of our country can be shown
to the rest of the world. And as long as
I'm in the White House, I'll continue to
exemplify what you are, what our Na-
tion has been, what our Nation has been
in the long past, what our Nation is now,
what it can be in the future.
I believe in the spirit of commitments
that were made 200 years ago, here in
your State and mine, and I believe that
you want us to raise a banner high of
protecting human rights around the
world, as we do in our own country, and
that's what we're going to have if you'll
continue to be partners with us.
I don't want to look too far away from
you. We've also recognized that the best
government is the one closest to you.
don't believe in a big brother in Washing-
ton telling you how to run your business.
We've tried to get government's nose out
of people's business as best we can, but not
in a combative or disputive way. We've
formed a good alliance with the mayors
1577
