Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
I'm sure did not hurt any of you. [Laugh-
ter] I hope that you will not consider this
to be your complete fulfillment of an
obligation for a better State and a better
Nation.
If you haven't given the limit, I hope
you will. Get your husbands or wives to do
the same and contact your own friends
and neighbors, those who have confidence
in you, to contribute as well. Democrats
and Republicans can help. And I think
it's very important that each one of
you
kind of anoint yourself this next week
and a half to be a campaign manager for
the Democratic candidates in whom you
have confidence. You couldn't possibly
make a better investment in your own
State and Nation, your own future, and
a future for people who care for you and
about whom you are deeply concerned.
I need for you to join our Democratic
team and to be part of it. And you can
do this by helping me elect these fine men
to the offices they seek. They've been
nominated in an open, free, democratic
primary. No one would doubt that at all.
And I hope that you would now give them
your full support. They particularly need
your support after they are in office, and
so do I. I need them; they need you; I
need you.
I'm your President, and I have the
deepest feelings about those who serve
with me in positions of major importance,
positions of public trust. I remember his-
tory as well. Hal Pachios said that he
wasn't sure whether or not I was familiar
with nature food. I grew up on a farm
during the Hoover Depression. [Laughter]
I'm quite familiar with hickory nuts,
persimmons, and boiled rabbit. And later,
when the Democrats came in, I gradu-
ated to buttermilk, Maine potatoes, and
peanuts.
I don't have much time with you. I
wanted to talk soberly and frankly to-
night. I don't care whether you applaud
or not.
I didn't come up here to waste my
time. I've had a long week. The duties of
my office are sometimes burdensome,
sometimes create loneliness, always seri-
ous. My decisions affect the future of our
Nation, in fact, many other nations
around the Earth. This could have been
my 1 day off this week, but I wanted to
come here, because I, as the President
of our country and as the leader of the
Democratic Party, am very interested in
what happens in Maine 10 days from now
on November 7.
I can't carry an election for you. I can't
Thank you very much for letting me stay here and hold your hand to make
come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:27 p.m. in the
Olde Storeroom at the Colonial Hilton Inn.
Portland, Maine
Remarks at the Annual Jefferson-Jackson Day
Dinner. October 28, 1978
Senator Hathaway, Senator Ed Muskie,
Chairman Hal Pachios, Joe Brennan,
John Quinn, Mark Gartley, Chairman
John White, fellow Democrats:
I feel at home in Maine.
sure that Bill Hathaway is the next Sen-
ator from Maine or that Joe Brennan is
the next Governor, Mark Gartley and
John Quinn your next Members of Con-
gress. I can't do that.
I thought a lot about Maine. My son's
been up here to campaign for these candi-
dates. He didn't have to. The Vice Presi-
dent's been up here to campaign. He
didn't have to. My wife has been up here
to campaign with Bill Hathaway and
with the other candidates. She didn't
have to. We believe in them.
I have a great admiration for the char-
acter and the spirit of the people of
1897
