Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
eign military credit sales program and
programs in the Departments of Com-
merce and the Interior.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached report.
The White House,
December 12, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of De-
cember 18, 1978.
Congressional Christmas Ball
Remarks at the White House Function.
December 12, 1978
What I'd like to do this evening is to
welcome all of you to a typical President
and congressional meeting-[laughter]—
similar to what we've had all this past 2
years. But this time we thought we'd let
the wives see what it's like.
I'm not going to make a speech. But I
would like to say that Christmas is a time
for love and for friendship, for an assess-
ment of our many blessings and for peace.
Our country has been blessed greatly the
last 2 years, in great measure because of
the superb work and the courage of the
Congress of the United States. And I, as
President, want to thank you on behalf
of the 215 million American people.
We have enjoyed peace for our own
Nation and we've worked tirelessly, you
and I, to bring peace to others as well.
And during this religious season, regard-
less of your faith, I know that you will
join me and all Americans in praying for
peace in the Middle East and throughout
the world.
This evening is a time for enjoyment
and for getting to know each other bet-
ter. When we had the Democratic Con-
vention, which made a superb choice-
[laughter-I was lucky enough to be
blessed with Peter Duchin's music there.
He played for the Inauguration, which
was a great day for me and for some of
you as well. And tonight we have a man
who enjoys as much popularity as any
bandleader has ever enjoyed in our coun-
try, one of the greatest bandleaders of all
time, who follows in the footsteps of his
father, Eddie Duchin, and who last year,
I believe, gave a new Christmas work,
"Christmas Music with Peter Duchin."
So, he's here to help us help one another
enjoy Christmas and enjoy the fellowship
of the White House.
On behalf of me and Rosalynn and our
whole family, you're welcome, my friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
National Conference on Fraud,
Abuse and Error
Remarks at the Conference Sponsored by the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare. December 13, 1978
First of all, let me say that I'm very
grateful to all of you for being willing to
attend a conference so important as this
one. As you may surmise, I get a lot of
invitations to make speeches and to attend
conferences and conventions. I particu-
larly wanted to be here because of the im-
portance of the subject and because Joe
Califano has been in charge of the pro-
gram and the origin of the idea.
Joe is a superb Secretary, as you well
know. When I first asked him to be Secre-
tary of HEW, I said, "There are a couple
of things I'd like for you to do. One is to
stay away from controversial subjects”—
[laughter]-"and to carry out specific as-
signments with complete success."
This past week I asked him to go to the
Democratic midterm conference to ex-
plain my position on a comprehensive
2228
