Oct. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
plans and the biennial revisions identified
in Sec. 5(d) (9). Working closely with all
other involved agencies, including but not
limited to those identified in Sec. 5(b) (2),
the Secretary of Commerce will define, as
an integral part of the plans, the role of
each agency in carrying out the Program.
The plans shall reflect the Administra-
tion's ongoing and proposed climate pro-
gram efforts and will be promulgated by
me after appropriate review in the Execu-
tive Office of the President.
Each involved Department and Agency
will assign a policy officer to work with
the Secretary of Commerce or her des-
ignee to assure that the goals, objectives,
assignments of responsibilities, and allo-
cations of resources, detailed in the plans,
are consistent with the mission responsi-
bilities of each Department and Agency.
If any issue arises where a consensus of
views cannot be reached among these offi-
cers, the matter shall be brought to the at-
tention of the Director, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and the Director, Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy, for
resolution.
The Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy will maintain cog-
nizance, for me, of the status of Program
coordination and recommend from time
to time any program and procedural
changes deemed necessary.
JIMMY CARTER
Value of the Dollar in Domestic
and International Markets
Remarks Announcing Measures To
Strengthen the Dollar. November 1, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Last week, I pledged my
administration to a balanced, concerted,
and sustained program to fight inflation.
That program requires effective policies
to assure a strong dollar.
The basic factors that affect the
strength of the dollar are heading in the
right direction. We now have an energy
program passed by Congress; our trade
deficit is declining; and last week, I put
in place a strong anti-inflation program.
The continuing decline in the exchange
value of the dollar is clearly not war-
ranted by the fundamental economic situ-
ation. That decline threatens economic
progress at home and abroad and the
success of our anti-inflation program.
As a major step in the anti-inflation pro-
gram, it is now necessary to act to correct
the excessive decline in the dollar which
has recently occurred. Therefore, pur-
suant to my request that strong action be
taken, the Department of the Treasury
and the Federal Reserve Board are today
initiating measures in both domestic and
international monetary fields to assure the
strength of the dollar.
The international components of this
program have been developed with other
major governments and with central
banks. They intend to cooperate fully with
the United States in attaining our mutual
objectives.
Secretary Blumenthal and Chairman
Miller are announcing detailed measures
immediately.
Thank you very much.
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. In the past
few months the United States has taken
action to correct the imbalances that have
characterized our economy. We have
passed an energy bill which will lead to a
reduction of our dependence on imported
oil. We have implemented a program to
enhance exports as a national priority. We
have launched a tough and determined
1908
