Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
the large grain elevators will make less of
that profit. Stable prices will benefit con-
sumers. So, agriculture is helping as well.
We have, I think, accomplished a great
deal. Many problems still face our coun-
try. In spite of the utmost efforts by my-
self and the Congress, we still don't have
a comprehensive energy policy for our
country. In the last 6 years, oil imports
have increased 800 percent. In 1962 we
imported $4.7 billion worth of oil. This
year we will import $45 billion worth of
oil.
Of all the oil used in our country now,
about half of it is bought overseas. And
when you take $45 billion of American
money and send it overseas to pay for oil,
you rob our country of that much to invest
in new jobs. It creates inflation. It lowers
the value of the dollar. It makes us un-
necessarily dependent on uncertain for-
eign oil supplies in a time of crisis or na-
tional emergency.
We're trying to correct that defect in
our governmental structure. And I hope
and pray that before the Congress ad-
journs next month that they will have
passed the major elements of a compre-
hensive energy policy.
This is the kind of difficult subject
we've not been timid about facing. I
think the Congress has met it well, and
the people have supported us.
I've tried to restore also—and this is the
last thing I want to mention our basic
system of federalism. Our country was
formed when 13 States allotted certain
powers to the Federal Government. They
retained the other powers for themselves.
And then States formed cities, towns,
counties, townships. But the hope of our
Founding Fathers was that there would
be kind of an equal partnership, a com-
mon purpose, a team spirit of these dif-
ferent levels of government, and that the
strongest governments will be the closest
ones to the people, and that government
would not intrude in the private affairs
of individuals or our free enterprise sys-
tem, unless it was necessary.
The few years before I became Presi-
dent, that structure had been, for all prac-
tical purposes, destroyed. We're trying to
put it back together. We have some prob-
lems in doing it in just a few States. One
of those States is Ohio. And it hurts you.
No one could doubt the good intentions of
all of us who serve you in Washington. I
remember who put me in office, and so do
the people I've chosen to work on my ad-
ministration team.
I'm concerned, for instance, about the
problems with Ohio coal. If the wrong
decisions
decisions are made, it could cost you
12,000 jobs in your coal production indus-
try. We need to have the kind of harmony
and cooperation and partnership between
Washington and Columbus, Ohio, that
can solve this problem together. But we
don't have it.
Every State is given the responsibility to
develop air quality standards compatible
with the Federal laws passed by Congress
that bind us all. Forty-nine States have
Governors and administrations that have
evolved acceptable air quality standards.
One State has not, the State of Ohio. And
this prevents our resolution of one of the
most difficult questions that face all of you
in the prosperity and well-being of the
people who look to you and your elected
officials for leadership.
We've seen changes take place in some
of our basic industries. Steel is one of
them. As you well know, 2 years ago, be-
fore I became President, the steel industry
was sliding backward. Production had
dropped off. Plant capacity was unused.
Steelworkers were out of jobs. Foreign im-
ports were flooding into our country.
Dumping occurred. We've solved that
problem to a major degree. Since May,
we've had a trigger price mechanism de-
signed very carefully in harmony with
1625
