Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ple; who's shown that the free enterprise
system works in an honorable way; and
who can bring to government a vision of
what Tennessee can be-with new jobs,
new industry, lower taxes, a better life for
senior citizens, a better education system.
These are the kinds of things for which
the groundwork's been laid. But Jake
Butcher is the kind of person who didn't
have to run for Governor. The Lord
knows it's not an easy thing to run for a
major political office, with one's family in-
volved, with a deep, unshakable commit-
ment. He and Sanya have been willing to
go out, as is indicated on this poster, and
put himself before you to serve Tennessee.
And I hope you'll put him in the Gover-
nor's office and give me a good partner
here in Tennessee with whom I can work
the next 4 years.
I just want to say a word, too, about
Jane Eskind, who I think has a campaign
that pretty closely parallels mine in 1976.
It would be good for Tennessee to have
her as a U.S. Senator. She understands
the intricacies of government from the
point of view of one who is deeply inter-
ested. She's been a loyal public servant
without holding elective office.
I'd never served in Washington myself,
and I know the advantage that I had,
along with Jim Sasser, of coming there,
as Jay Solomon has done, with kind of a
fresh point of view. But she understands
me to run. I did it because I wanted to,
and I'm enjoying being President. I never
have claimed to know all the answers, but
I think as long as I put my faith in you,
as they will do, I can avoid some of the
mistakes that have been made in the past.
You've come here maybe feeling that
you've done enough. I bet everyone in this
room has been blessed socially, politically,
economically. We've enjoyed the fruits of
a free society. Some of you may have come
from humble background, maybe even
from illiterate parents who had to work
every day for a living. But you've done
well. And I hope that you will see in the
next 10 or 12 days that the most impor-
tant thing that you could possibly do with
your time, your influence, or your money
is to help good candidates be elected on
November 7.
There's no one in here who's not com-
petent enough to be, in effect, when you
go back home, a campaign manager for
Jake and for Jane and for Keith and for
others; to call your own friends and your
own neighbors, to see your business asso-
ciates or those who have confidence in
you, and say, "Let's help these candidates
restore to Tennessee, which has in the past
been heavily oriented toward the other
party, a new fresh Democratic spirit." It
will really help me as a President to do a
the intricacies of government. And she, I better job and help you to have a better
remember, in 1976, led a voter registra-
tion drive in Tennessee and added
250,000 new voters to the rolls. She didn't
have to do that, but she did a good job
with it. And she is running a very aggres-
sive, very competent campaign.
I want to say this in closing: It's not
easy for them to run; it wasn't easy for
State and a better Nation.
And I'd like to ask every one of you, if
you will do that, to actually work between
now and November 7 to actually raise
extra money for them and use your influ-
ence in a beneficial way for Tennessee.
Would you say when I ask you, "I will"?
Will you do that for us? [Applause] Right
on, thank you.
1864
