Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 14
Lionel R. Bordeaux, of Rosebud, S.D.,
was born February 9, 1940. He received
a B.A. from Black Hills State College in
1964 and an M.A. from the University
of South Dakota in 1971. From 1964 to
1972, Bordeaux held a variety of posi-
tions with the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Since 1973 he has been president of Sinte
Gleska College.
Frederick S. Bigjim, of Bethel, Alaska,
was born July 7, 1941. He received a B.A.
from the University of Alaska in 1972
and an M. Ed. from Harvard University
in 1973. From 1973 to 1974, Bigjim was
director and administrator of intercultural
studies at Alaska Methodist University.
Since November of 1976 Bigjim has been
administrator/instructor of Kuskokwim
Community College.
Maxine R. Edmo, of Fort Hall, Idaho,
was born May 4, 1929. Edmo attended
the University of Idaho. From 1969 to
1974, she was a chairperson with the Sho-
shone-Bannock Tribal Education Com-
mittee. Since 1975 she has been a chair-
person with the Shoshone-Bannock Tribal
Health, Education, and Welfare Com-
mittee.
Viola G. Peterson, of Flint, Mich., was
born January 1, 1918. Peterson received
an A.A. from Mott Community College.
Since 1974 she has been Title IV, Part A
program director for the Carman-Ains-
worth Community Schools in Flint, Mich.
Columbia, Missouri
Remarks to Members of the Midcontinent
Farmers Association. August 14, 1978
Senator Talmadge, chairman of the Agri-
culture Committee and a true friend of
American farmers everywhere, and of con-
sumers as well; Senator Eagleton, who has
a very strategic position as chairman of
the Appropriations Subcommittee and
who watches over farmers throughout the
country as if they were his own children,
who does such a superb job; Senator Dan-
forth, a very courageous man who repre-
sents this State as well; Congressman
Ichord, who has welcomed me to his own
district; Congressman Burlison, who in
the Appropriations Committee in the
House also keeps a watchful and a con-
structive eye on the lives and well-being
of American farmers; Congressman
Skelton, who serves on the House Agri-
culture Committee; Congressman Gep-
hardt; Congressman Coleman; Congress-
man Taylor; and I want to say just a word
of condolences and regrets from my wife
and me to Congressman Dick Bolling,
with whom I talked yesterday morning,
who had a tragedy in his family when his
fine wife, Jim, passed away; my good
friend, Governor Teasdale, and President
Fred Hinkle, who represents you well and
who's been a very fine counselor, for me
and for previous Presidents, who share
the responsibility that I have; and to the
delegates of the Midcontinent Farmers
Association assembled here in such great
numbers to represent yourselves and your
neighbors so well:
I'm grateful that you extended me this
invitation. And I'm glad to come and to
talk to you about two basic subjects. One
is agriculture, and we've made good prog-
ress in this respect in the last year and a
half since I've been in office. The other
one is also of equal importance to farmers,
and that is inflation.
Sometimes it takes a great problem to
arouse someone to take strong action,
that's slow in coming. I tried to think of a
story to illustrate this point. The Sunday
before last my Sunday school teacher told
about a young man who went to work for
an insurance company, and his boss called
him in the first week and said, “It's im-
1419
