Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
So, that's a list of the options that I
can think of at this moment that exist for
me. And my preference, of course, is for
the Congress to act. But I cannot fore-
close the option that I have to act uni-
laterally through Executive order if the
Congress does not act.
MARGARET COSTANZA
Q. Why do you think Midge Costanza
felt obliged to resign, and do you have a
new appointee to take her place?
THE PRESIDENT. Midge resigned with-
out any encouragement from me, and,
matter of fact, I asked Midge to stay on.
She left in very good spirits. She has an-
nounced to the press and has told me
privately that she has several very good
offers to utilize her superb services. And
she's worked very closely with us, no later
than yesterday, as a matter of fact, in the
White House West Wing to help us
choose a successor to take her place. So,
I think that describes the situation quite
accurately.
Q. Do you have a nominee for her re-
placement?
THE PRESIDENT. We have several ones
whom we are considering. We have not
yet made a choice.
U.S. TRADE WITH THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Do you plan to continue selective
trade sanctions against the Soviet Union,
since some allied nations, such as France,
are unwilling to cooperate in technologi-
cal boycotts?
THE PRESIDENT. We obviously don't
have any inclination to declare a trade
embargo against the Soviet Union to stop
all trade. It's to the advantage of our
country to have trade with the Soviet
Union. I think embargoes that have been
imposed in the past by previous adminis-
trations, for instance, an unannounced
and unilateral stopping of shipments of
feed grains and food grains and soybeans
overseas, has been very detrimental to our
country. I do not intend to do that. But
we'll assess each individual sale on the
basis of several criteria, one of the most
important ones of which is, does this sale
contribute to an enhancement of the So-
viets' military capability and is this coun-
try the only reasonable source of a supply
for that particular item? And we have a
very well established procedure in the
Government for carrying out that analy-
sis. And I believe that my own cancella-
tion of the sale of a very large computer
a month or so ago was well-advised, but
we'll have to consider each one of those
additional items as they are proposed on
its own merits.
It takes a long time for a decision like
that to get to my desk. Most of them are
simply canceled before they ever arrive—
even come in to my attention. The Com-
merce Department and others assess it;
the State Department has to approve it
before it comes to me. But we'll have to
assess them on an individual basis.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION VETO
Q. Mr. President, getting back to ener-
gy and the veto today, Senator Jackson
was suggesting today, that this is going to
be a big problem for the energy bill, now
that you've vetoed the defense bill, because
he says the aircraft carrier was kind of the
glue that held that thing together, and it
took them 6 months to get the bill. And
he says now it's going to be a problem,
and he says we've got so many headaches
and this is another one. It seems rather
significant to me, in that he's the man
that is carrying that energy bill for you.
THE PRESIDENT. I met this morning
with Senator Jackson and others to go
over the reasons for my veto. He did not
disagree with the reasons that I expressed.
I have not had a single adviser who told
me that we ought to go ahead with the
1443
