Oct. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that the numerous broad-reaching pro-
grams established under the bill are pre-
mature. H.R. 9370 would establish a Na-
tional Aquaculture Council to assess the
state of aquaculture in the U.S. and to
prepare a National Aquaculture Devel-
opment Plan-a detailed set of Federal
activities to expand the commercial po-
tential of certain aquatic species. It
would establish substantial new pro-
grams of Federal assistance to carry out
the plan and undertake demonstration
projects in aquaculture. The bill also
would create a Federal Aquaculture As-
sistance Fund to provide financial assist-
ance and support to the aquaculture
industry through a new Federal loan guar-
antee program and a new Federal insur-
ance program.
is authorized to extend credit to harvest-
ers of aquatic products.
We also have in place a way to co-
ordinate the aquaculture programs of the
Federal Government-namely, the Inter-
agency Subcommittee on Aquaculture of
the Federal Council on Science and
Technology.
Given this array of Federal activities,
I believe we should more carefully as-
sess the need for additional programs in
this area. In particular, I am concerned
about offering major new government
subsidies such as the loan guarantee and
insurance programs unless and until a
clear need for them has been established.
Accordingly, I must withhold my ap-
proval of the bill.
My Administration will continue to
assess the needs of aquaculture and the
effectiveness and adequacy of the Federal
programs in this area. We look forward
to reviewing these programs next year
with the sponsors of this measure in the
hope we can agree on additional im-
provements in the government's aquacul-
ture program.
The White House,
October 18, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
The Administration recognizes the
importance of aquaculture, the need for
effective programs to support this, and
the concept of an assessment of the aqua-
culture industry. In fact, many of the ac-
tions that the bill would require are al-
ready underway. Federal agencies are
now involved in a wide variety of aqua-
culture activities, and they already have
the legislative authorities they need to pro-
vide research and technical and financial
assistance to the aquaculture industry.
For example, the Small Business Ad-
ministration can assist small business con-
cerns which are engaged in aquaculture.
The Department of Commerce, through
its aquaculture research activities and the Equal Rights Amendment
Sea Grant program, is supporting marine
research, development, and advisory serv-
ices. The Department of the Interior
spends about $15 million yearly on fresh-
water aquaculture at its fish hatcheries,
research and development laboratories,
and cooperative fishery units. The Agri-
culture Department provides a complete
range of information and technical as-
sistance related to aquaculture. Addi-
tionally, the Farm Credit Administration
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of disap-
proval was released on October 19.
Remarks on Signing H.J. Res. 638.
October 20, 1978
Lot of happy faces this morning.
[Laughter] Much more pleasant than you
looked 2 months ago.
As is well known, the Constitution does
not require that the President sign a reso-
lution concerning an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. But I
particularly wanted to add my signature
to those of the Speaker of the House and
1800
