Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
ment waste and spending and hold down
prices, to also hold down their wage de-
mands. It is going to be a very difficult
undertaking. I need your support, and
I hope the people of this country will rally
to me to control this blight on our econ-
omy, give us a stronger nation that can
keep jobs coming to us by holding down
inflation.
I would like to say one other thing in
closing about international affairs. It's
very important for our country's military
capability to be strong, because with
strength comes confidence and influence
in the rest of the world. We've tried to
provide leadership that in the past was
missing. We've not felt a necessity to en-
dorse and support every tinhorn dictator-
ship around the country [world] ยน that vio-
lated human rights. We've tried to raise a
banner for our country to follow of com-
mon decency, honesty, and self-respect.
1
I think we've been successful to a great
degree. As you well know, in times gone
by, every time the United Nations met in
the fall of the year in New York, our
country was embarrassed by being the
target of every attack, the butt of every
joke. This is no longer the case. And I
believe that the nations of Asia, Europe,
Africa now see us as a nation that can be
trusted, a nation that's strong, a nation
that's going to stay strong.
We're negotiating every day with the
Soviet Union to bring about a SALT
agreement to reduce the threat of atomic
weapons that hang over our heads, those
of the Soviet Union and indeed the en-
tire world. The Congress has already
passed a bill that was called the non-
proliferation bill to keep nations who
don't presently have atomic weapons from
getting them.
The Republican Senator from this State
has said that he wants us to put a mora-
1 Printed in the transcript.
torium on negotiating with the Soviets to
limit nuclear weapons. This would be a
serious mistake, to stop trying for world
peace, to stop trying for nuclear weapons.
And as long as I'm in the White House,
we'll continue to negotiate to keep our
Nation's strength, to cut down on nuclear
weapons, and eliminate this great threat
from the entire world.
I'm grateful that since I've been in of-
fice, not a single American member of our
Armed Forces has shed blood in a foreign
country. And I hope I can go out of office
at the end of my term with that record still
intact.
But we're not trying to bring peace just
to our own country. We're trying to bring
peace in other troubled areas of the world.
In Southern Africa, in Namibia, in Rho-
desia, in Cyprus, wherever there's a threat
of bloodshed that might spread to other
countries and eventually to us, we are
working day and night to try to alleviate
tensions, to eliminate hatred, and to build
up friendships.
One of the most complicated and long-
standing disputes in the entire world, as
you know, is in the Middle East. There's
no doubt in my mind that the people of
Israel want peace. There's no doubt that
the people of Egypt want peace. This also
applies to those who live on the West
Bank, in Jordan, in Syria, in Lebanon.
We've already made some progress.
President Sadat, Prime Minister Begin
have been very determined and very cou-
rageous in seeking common ground on
which they could build an agreement.
Lately, we have had some problems with
the settlement issue on the West Bank.
There was a chance yesterday that the
Egyptian delegation
Egyptian delegation might withdraw.
They had orders to do so. But I contacted
President Sadat. This morning, he sent
me word that his delegation would stay
here and continue to negotiate until
there's a peace treaty between Israel and
1895
