Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 29
I think it's obvious to us all that we,
in the last 2 years, working with the Dem-
ocratic Congress, have been surprisingly
successful. We have had unprecedented
progress made in education, in transporta-
tion, sustained construction of housing.
We've reestablished our Nation as a
focal point for world peace, for the en-
hancement of human rights in the most
generic sense of the word, both domestic-
ally and in foreign affairs. We've tried to
bring some order out of chaos in the
Government bureaucracy. We've at-
tempted to inspire the Federal workers to
more dedicated service even than they
had been exemplifying before. We've re-
duced the Federal deficit. We've strength-
ened ourselves militarily. And I think
we've repaired some of the damage that
had been done among the American
people in their attitude of distrust and
doubt about the veracity or competence
of the Federal Government.
We put Americans back to work in an
unprecedented way. Never before in the
history of our country, even during war-
time, have we added so many net new
jobs, when 2 years ago Americans were
discouraged about an inability to be gain-
fully employed, to use what talent they
had, and to support themselves. And the
benefits derived therefrom in reduced un-
employment payments, reduced welfare
payments, have made available funds to
repair our cities and to carry out other
programs that I've just described.
This is a much more insidious problem
than some of those that I've described
already. We've not caused inflation. It's
been a chronic problem now for more
than 10 years, an average inflation rate
of about 62 percent for the last 10
years. And I said in my speech to the pub-
lic the other night on television, the 3 years
before I became President the average
was 8 percent inflation. This is a problem
that's endemic to all the democratic na-
tions, at least, in the world. Some coun-
tries face a much higher inflation rate
than do we. But I think our ability to deal
with it successfully will be one of the most
difficult challenges that I have faced.
There's a lot of practical action that
can be taken, and we are pursuing those
in depth. I won't go into that because
Fred Kahn and Stu Eizenstat can do it
best-but there's a symbolic attitude, sym-
bolic acts that can create an attitude in
our country that will make it possible for
us to be successful. We've got to engender
among the American people a realization
that it's a common, joint partnership
effort, that it's not just something cen-
tered in the Federal Government, that it's
not something for which we can blame
business or industry or labor, but that it's
a kind of pressure on our own economy
that hurts us all, that's also caused by all
of us, and which must be corrected by all
of us.
I have a great additional responsibility
when I come forward with the 1980 fiscal
year budget to make sure that in its most
carefully examined way that the analysis
shows that it is equitable and fair. And if
we err in giving one segment of our econ-
omy a special privilege, I want to be
(sure)ยน that that segment is the one who
needs the special privilege and the serv-
ices of government most.
I think what we do in our own country
will help greatly in other nations as well.
The recent effort to strengthen the dollar,
for instance, I think will be a major factor
when a decision is made by the OPEC na-
tions concerning the price of oil in the fu-
ture. And the trade relationships that we
have with Germany, with Japan, with
Great Britain and other nations will be
heavily affected in our favor if we show a
determination, a resolve, an ability to
Printed in the transcript.
2093
