July 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
be inflation, economic growth, the need
to deal with energy. And your success on
all counts in this most effective interna-
tional economic summit is something that
thrills us all.
We were also very gratified by the very
strong and specific steps that the Western
industrial democracies will now take
against air piracy and terrorism. And also,
I know that all Americans stood solidly
behind you when you visited Berlin and
reaffirmed the longstanding and unwav-
ering commitment of the American
people to the continuing freedom of that
city.
Mr. President, we're delighted to have
you back from this most successful trip.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
When I was far from home in West
Germany, there were two basic issues that
were constantly on my mind. One was the
strength and the freedom of the Western
World. I told the people in Bonn, Frank-
furt, throughout West Germany, that
their security was our security, because
we know that the defense of the United
States itself is dependent upon the
strength of the NATO Alliance.
We have 300,000 members of the
American Armed Forces in Europe-in
the Marines, the Air Force, the Navy,
and the Army. I was able to visit with
some of those, to talk to them person-
ally, to talk to their families. They serve
there at great personal sacrifice, but they
know their purpose in life. They recog-
nize why they make that sacrifice. They
are there not only to defend territory but
to defend the spirit of freedom.
We saw a demonstration of that spirit
in a very exciting visit to West Berlin, a
free city that could be called an island of
liberty. There was an outpouring of
friendship there as I rode through the
streets, a demonstration that the Ber-
liners, the Germans, the Europeans know
the value of our partnership. I think the
impression that went through my mind in
those exciting moments was that we de-
fine ourselves by the values that we are
willing to sacrifice to defend, and the
values that we defend in Europe can in-
deed make all Americans proud.
The other basic issue was the inter-
dependence in the economic world. I met
with the leaders of six other great nations
to try to ensure a better life for people of
our own country, a higher standard of liv-
ing, more jobs, lower costs for the goods
that we consume.
I can tell you in complete candor that
our allies in other nations were willing to
make economic sacrifices for the good of
us all, so that we might sell our own
products more successfully, that we
might have in that way more jobs for the
people of this country.
We made promises also that I intend
to keep: to hold down inflation and to
meet the greatest single concern of others,
and that is the excessive waste of energy in
this country and the excessive imports of
foreign oil.
We recognize the strength of the free
world. We have some problems that we've
addressed very thoroughly. But overall
our feeling was one of confidence, of mu-
tual purpose, of the willingness to address
the difficult issues without timidity and
without fear.
So, to summarize, we realize that free-
dom is priceless. We realize that our own
well-being at home is dependent upon
the partnership that we enjoy with won-
derful allies around the world. It was a
good trip for us. I was proud to represent
the greatest nation on Earth. And we are
very glad to be home. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:30 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
1316
