Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the negotiated settlement of Alaska v.
Morton, Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska,
Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of
this Monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have
hereunto set my hand this first day of
December, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-eight, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:53 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The attachment and map detailing the
boundaries of the Admiralty Island National
Monument are printed in the FEDERAL REG-
ISTER of December 5, 1978.
Aniakchak National Monument
Proclamation 4612. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Aniakchak Caldera is located in
the heart of the Alaska Peninsula. It is so
unexpected a feature that it remained un-
known to all but the Natives of the region
until about 1920. With its average diame-
ter of approximately six miles, Aniakchak
is one of the world's largest calderas.
In the interior of the caldera are text-
book examples of certain volcanic fea-
tures such as lava flows, cinder cones, and
explosion pits. Also lying within the cal-
dera is Surprise Lake which is fed by
warm springs and is uniquely charged
with chemicals. Surprise Lake is the source
of the Aniakchak River, which cascades
through a 1,500 foot gash in the caldera
wall and downward for 27 miles to the
Pacific Ocean.
The flanks of the caldera provide a geo-
logical and biological continuum by which
to make a comparative study of the for-
mation of the caldera and the significant
process of biological succession of both
plant and animal species occurring in the
vicinity of the caldera, an area that was
rendered virtually devoid of life forms by
a major eruption of the volcano in 1931.
The caldera is also climatologically
unique in that, because of its topography
and setting, it appears to be able to gen-
erate its own weather. A striking phenom-
enon known as cloud "niagaras" occurs
frequently as strong downdrafts form over
the caldera walls.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, biological, climatological
and other phenomena enumerated above
supports now, as it has in the past, the
unique subsistence culture of the local res-
idents. The continued existence of this
culture, which depends on subsistence
hunting, and its availability for study, en-
hance the historic and scientific values of
the natural objects protected herein be-
cause of the ongoing interaction of the
subsistence culture with those objects. Ac-
cordingly, the opportunity for local resi-
dents to engage in subsistence hunting is
a value to be protected and will continue
under the administration of the monu-
ment.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes the
President, in his discretion, to declare by
public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and
other objects of historic or scientific inter-
est that are situated upon the lands owned
or controlled by the Government of the
United States to be national monuments,
and to reserve as part thereof parcels of
land, the limits of which in all cases shall
2114
