Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But the sum total of this largest appro-
priation since the program began for ele-
mentary and secondary education, and the
greatest improvement in history for col-
lege student loans and grants, is a notable
step, and again, let me thank all of you for
making this possible. I'm very proud to be
part of it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 15, the Education Amend-
ments of 1978, is Public Law 95-561, and S.
2539, the Middle Income Student Assistance
Act, is Public Law 95-566, both approved
November 1.
Education Amendments of 1978
and the Middle Income Student
Assistance Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 15 and S. 2539
Into Law. November 1, 1978
In early 1978 I proposed several major
initiatives for education: a record $12.4
billion budget request for the Office of
Education programs a 17-percent in-
crease over the previous year—including
an additional $1.4 billion in our college
student aid programs; and major legis-
lative proposals.
Today I am pleased and proud to be
able to join with my colleagues from the
Congress and friends from the education
community and sign into law the Educa-
tion Amendments of 1978 and the Middle
Income Student Assistance Act. Com-
bined with the appropriations bill for fis-
cal 1979 I signed earlier this month,
month,
these bills represent an historic expansion
of Federal assistance to education.
The administration's proposals for the
reauthorization of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965 were
intended to reaffirm and strengthen our
commitment to equal educational oppor-
tunity for disadvantaged children; to
ensure mastering the basic skills of read-
ing, writing, and mathematics; to forge a
new Federal, State, and local partnership;
to achieve increased budget control over
Impact Aid; to reduce excessive paper-
work; and to address the unique educa-
tional needs of bilingual, American
Indian, and female students; to aid de-
segregation of school systems; and to in-
crease aid to private school children,
especially through Federal programs for
instructional materials, compensatory
and bilingual education.
Το my great pleasure, the amendments
include the major proposals which we
made to Congress last February, in par-
ticular, the new Title I provisions for sup-
plemental funds to school districts with
large numbers or proportions of children
from poor families, and matching grants
to stimulate States to establish compensa-
tory education programs. As a result,
more than 7 million disadvantaged chil-
dren-almost 2 million more than last
year-will be served.
The Middle Income Student Assistance
Act, which I am also signing today, is
similar to the G.I. bill as a landmark in
the Federal commitment to aid families
with college students. Responding to my
original proposals to the Congress, this
bill provides more generous Basic Educa-
tional Opportunity Grant-Pell grants-
to low-income students, and makes eli-
gible students from families with income
up to about $25,000. An additional 1.5
million students from middle-income
families will be eligible for the Basic
Grants program.
The bill also expands the Guaranteed
Student Loan program so that the
Government will pay interest for any stu-
dent eligible for a federally guaranteed
loan of up to $2,500 per year while the
student is still in college.
1918
