Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Resources Council, composed of all the
agencies with water programs, is our best
assurance of consistent and efficient im-
plementation of water programs through-
out the government and close working
relationships with other levels of govern-
ment. The Administration's new water
policy stresses the need for systematic
management of water resource programs
and for increased coordination with state
and local governments, and Congress rec-
ognized the importance of these objectives
and of the Water Resources Council in
reauthorizing the Council and its small
staff this year.
I am pleased to note that the energy re-
search and development portions of the
bill are acceptable and meet important na-
tional needs. In a constructive step, this
bill provides that decisions on the Clinch
River Breeder Reactor project-or possi-
ble alternatives-will be determined in
the Department of Energy authorization
bill, the appropriate place to resolve this
issue.
Vital energy programs and sound water
development investments are important
and shared goals of the Congress and my
Administration.
Yet the American people have the right
to expect that their government will pur-
sue these goals effectively, efficiently and
with the budgetary discipline and careful
planning essential to reduce inflation and
continue economic growth. Citizens
rightly demand sound programs to meet
their needs. They rightly demand restraint
and judgment in the allocation of public
funds. And they expect those of us in
public office to demonstrate the courage
needed to face hard choices.
I call upon the Congress to join me in
meeting our shared responsibility to the
American people. I urge you to revise
this bill expeditiously so that vital water
and energy programs can continue un-
hampered by waste and inefficiency.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 5, 1978.
NOTE: The House of Representatives recon-
sidered H.R. 12928 on October 5, and the bill
was referred to committee.
Veto of Energy and Water
Development Appropriations Bill
Letter to Members of Congress Urging
Support of the Veto of H.R. 12928.
October 5, 1978
To Members of Congress
The Producers Price Index for finished
goods rose 0.9% in September (an annual
rate of 11.4%).
I urge you to help me control inflation
and to set an example of leadership for
the nation by supporting my veto of the
public works bill.
JIMMY CARTER
United States Ambassador
to Iceland
Nomination of Richard A. Ericson, Jr.
October 5, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard A. Ericson, Jr., of
Oakland, Calif., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to Iceland. He would re-
place James J. Blake, who has resigned.
Ericson was born May 24, 1923, in
Honolulu, Hawaii. He received a B.S.F.S.
from Georgetown University in 1955. He
served in the U.S. Army from 1943 to
1947.
Ericson joined the Foreign Service in
1947 and served as economic officer in
1710
