Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
here on the platform, with the airport
manager here where we stand, with Gov-
ernor Hunt, and many others. And it's
very important that we continue this.
We're trying to make North Carolina
a kind of rural laboratory to show that
small towns and cities, like where I live,
and people who live on farms have a
chance for a better life.
Right here where we're standing, even
though you've already got some help from
the Federal Aviation Administration, I
can announce today there will be $2 mil-
lion more coming in here next month to
add 1,500 more feet to your runway, giv-
ing you an 8,000-foot runway to connect
you with the outside world.
And we've tried to do away with some
crazy Federal regulations. In 1 day, ear-
lier this year, OSHA, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, elimi-
nated 1,100 regulations. We're trying to
do the same thing in the Farm Home Ad-
ministration.
I grew up in an area where there's a lot
of oak wood and hickory wood that can't
be used for much else except burning.
And there's been a regulation that even
in a farmhouse, you couldn't have a Farm
Home Administration loan to put a fire-
place in the living room. But we are tak-
ing that regulation out to let folks around
here that have trees keep warm in the
winter and not spend a lot of money on
buying fuel that's produced in Oklahoma
and Texas.
We had another regulation that said
when you build a house, you
build a house, you had to pro-
vide money for curbs and gutters. Well,
where I grew up in the country, we didn't
need curbs and gutters. And we are re-
moving that regulation as well.
There's another one that says you
couldn't get a Farm Home Administra-
tion loan if the grade level in the particu-
lar area was more than 15 percent. There
are a lot of places around this site we're
standing, Asheville, where 15-percent
grade looks like flat land. [Laughter] So,
we are making changes like this to make
your life better.
I might say in closing that I need your
help. We've had some successes, we've got
some challenges ahead. I'm very grateful
to you to come out and meet me today.
I ask you to help politically as well.
I realize there are a lot of Democrats
here, I realize there are a lot of Republi-
cans, there are a lot of people who don't
have any party affiliation. But I hope
you'll give your careful attention to elect-
ing John Ingram to the U.S. Senate and
Lamar Gudger to the Congress, to give the
kind of spirit that I try to exemplify in my
own political life-a deep care about
people who need help most, who want to
stand on their own feet, make their own
decisions, arrange their own lives, be
proud of their own government, work
closely with the local government, respect
the officials, respect one another, live in a
nation that's strong and peaceful.
Those are the kind of things I want;
they're the kind of things you want. To-
gether, you and I, we can have them in
our country in the future.
Thank you very much. God bless every
one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. In
his opening remarks he referred to Mayors Roy
Trantham of Asheville and Frank Todd of
Hendersonville, N.C., John C. White, chairman
of the Democratic National Committee, and
Betty McCain, chairman of the Democratic
Party in North Carolina.
1578
