Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
at ease and I feel very welcomed when I
go there.
Obviously, public opinion polls go up
and down. They went up substantially at
the end of the Camp David agreement; I
think it's inevitable that they'll go down
somewhat. But I can't modify my own
positions on issues or my basic commit-
ments to the American people on the basis
of public opinion polls. And if I happen
to be unpopular with a particular Gover-
nor or a group of people, I'll just have to
accept that and do the best I can.
TAX LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, I know you've an-
swered one tax question, but what do you
think of the $142 billion, 5-year tax cut
bill passed by the Senate? Do you think
there are enough safeguards in it against
inflation? And what do you think of the
concept of passing annual tax cuts so far
for as long as 5 years ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm really not quali-
fied to answer that question, because I've
not studied the actions that the Senate
has taken in the last few hours. It would
be very difficult to consummate as far-
reaching and as controversial and as in-
novative a concept as that in the last few
hours of a congressional session.
This is something in which the House
has not been involved, and for that to be
analyzed completely as to its impact on the
American taxpayers in such a short time
would be very difficult.
In general, I believe that the Senate-
passed bill has a much greater tax
reduction than I can accept and has some
features in it which I cannot accept.
My hope is, as I expressed originally,
that the House and the Senate conferees,
over the next 2 or 3 days, can reach an
agreement, extracting the most acceptable
elements from the House bill, combining
them with the most acceptable elements
of the Senate bill, so that I can sign the
final bill as passed.
If not, then there will be no tax bill this
year, because I will veto it. The only op-
tion would be for the Senate and the
House to come back in a special session
after the election, which I would not fa-
vor personally.
If this should occur, and I hope it won't
occur a veto-then, of course, early next
year tax reduction would again be at the
top of the agenda so that it could be
passed as soon as possible, making some
provisions of it, as appropriate, even ret-
roactive to the first of the year.
But my hope and expectation is still that
the House and Senate conferees can meet
and resolve the differences between them.
I will be meeting tomorrow with the
chairmen of the two committees from the
House and Senate, and, hopefully, the
three of us can agree on an acceptable
package.
RHODESIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, a followup on the
Rhodesia question. You indicated that if
an all-parties conference would take
place, this would be an advantage to pos-
sibly settling the problems in Rhodesia.
Would you host such a conference in the
United States?
The PRESIDENT. I have no preference
about where it should be held. I think it
would be better, perhaps, to hold it where
the parties to the conference prefer.
Two or 3 weeks ago, I instructed Sec-
retary Vance to propose to the frontline
Presidents and others that an all-parties
conference be held in New York. This was
not acceptable to some of them, and the
idea was not carried to completion.
But the important thing is to get the
members who are in dispute, who head
armed forces that are killing each other
in Rhodesia, Zimbabwe, and the sur-
1751
