Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 18, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the American Society of
Magazine Editors. August 11, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody. I apolo-
gize for interrupting Jody—[laughter]
and your session.
Let me say, first of all, that it's a great
pleasure and an honor for me to have you
here at the White House. Since I've been
in office this is the 30th session we've had
with special groups who represent the
major news media in our country. I
know that you collectively have subscrip-
tions of, I understand, over 100 million
people. And for us to be able to let
you
know what we are trying to do is very
important to us, as well as to our country.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Domestically, the main challenge that
I have on a constant, day-by-day basis is
to try to get control of the Federal bu-
reaucracy so that it can be managed in an
effective and efficient way to deliver serv-
ices to our people. This afternoon's vote-
or perhaps it might be delayed-on civil
service reform is the most important
single example of that.
Another one is to control budget spend-
ing, to cut down the deficit. And we've
had very good success in cutting the def-
icit down. In 1976, when I ran for
President, the deficit was in the sixties of
billions of dollars. In fiscal year '78,
really the first one I prepared, it was in
the fifties of billions; fiscal year '79, which
will start in October, in the forties of bil-
lions. And I hope that we'll cut it down
another $10 billion by the fiscal 1980 year
budget. So, to control the budget is very
important.
The Congress has been helpful to some
degree, but there is still some old, an-
cient, porkbarrel-type legislation that
really costs a lot of money and wastes a lot
of
money. One is the public works bill
that is being considered by the Congress
next week, which adds back the unneces-
sary water projects that were put out last
year by Congress, doubles the number of
new water projects, adds literally thou-
sands of unnecessary Federal employees.
And I think that this slow process of
change from wastefulness to tight man-
agement is very important.
Energy is another area over which we
are trying to get control, working very
closely with the private sector of our econ-
omy. We now import nine times more
dollars' worth of oil than we did 6 years
ago, which is an extraordinary drag on
our Nation's economy-it costs us jobs, it
1409
