Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 20
they should raise the price of oil, which
I think would be very bad for the Ameri-
can consumer. Two other ways are for me
to impose quotas or oil import fees which
would result in administrative difficulties
but which is presently permitted under
the law.
The fourth way is much preferable, to
impose a crude oil equalization tax to
raise the price of oil and, within that act
of the Congress, to restore that money
collected immediately back to the con-
sumers of this country. There would be
no net shift away from the consumers of
money. But the price of oil would be
raised to encourage conservation.
That's my preference, and I still hope
and believe that the Congress will take
action accordingly.
Mr. Bradley [Ed Bradley, CBS News].
AMBASSADOR ANDREW YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, what effect has the
statement made by Ambassador Andrew
Young had on your human rights cam-
paign, and do you agree with him that
there are political prisoners in the United
States?
THE PRESIDENT. The statement by
Andy Young was unfortunate, and I do
not agree with it. I don't think there are
thousands of political prisoners in this
country. He went on to explain what he
meant, that 10, 15 years ago during the
civil rights demonstrations and debates,
that he and others were imprisoned be-
cause of their belief that the laws of the
United States should be changed. They
were changed. We made great progress,
which Andy Young pointed out.
This is a subject that I've discussed
with Andy Young. He knows that I dis-
approve of his statement. I do not agree.
We have, I think, persisted in our human
rights commitments in spite of that state-
ment, and I've discussed this with Andy
Young. And I don't believe that he will
make a similar statement again.
The fact of the matter is that Andy
Young has been and is
Young has been and is very valuable to
our country. He's opened up new areas of
communications and mutual trust and co-
operation, among the nations of Africa
in particular. At almost the same time
when Andy made that unfortunate state-
ment, he had been remarkably successful
in bringing about a conclusion of the
Namibian question, which could have
exploded into a very unsatisfactory con-
flict in southern Africa.
So, I know that Andy regrets having
made that statement which was embar-
rassing to me. I don't believe he will do
it again.
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, you have been prom-
ising for the last 6 months to provide the
American people with some sort of na-
tional health insurance. Are you going to
provide that to the people this summer?
Are you going to propose something and
send it up to the Hill this summer?
THE PRESIDENT. By the end of this
month, I will have a directive to the Sec-
retary of HEW to consult with Gover-
nors, with mayors, with Members of the
Congress, with those who provide health
care in our country. And expressed in
that direction to him will be the princi-
ples on which a comprehensive health
care system will be established in our
country.
The Congress obviously will not have
time to take action on this comprehensive
proposal this year, but I want the Ameri-
can people and the Members of Congress
to know the principles under which it will
be formed.
One of the very discouraging aspects
of our present health care system is the
1325
