Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
"Contributions to International Organi-
zations" by declaring that no part of the
appropriation "may be made available for
furnishing of technical assistance by the
United Nations or any of its specialized
agencies." If allowed to stand, this action
would cause the United States to violate
its treaty obligations to support the or-
ganizations of the United Nations system.
Withholding of, or assigning conditions to,
U.S. contributions to assessed budgets of
these organizations would make it virtu-
ally impossible for these organizations to
accept such contributions, would seriously
impair their financial and political via-
bility, and is contrary to the policy of col-
lective financial responsibility continu-
ously advocated by this Government since
establishment of the United Nations
system.
This precedent would also weaken the
ability of organizations of the United Na-
tions to withstand efforts by other govern-
ments to impede their effective work. The
United States has consistently opposed the
Soviet Union's withholding of its assessed
contributions to those programs of the
United Nations which the Soviet Union
has found politically unpalatable. Our ef-
forts to stem such politicization of organi-
zations of the United Nations would be
severely weakened if the action of the
Congress is allowed to stand.
Accordingly, I intend to recommend
promptly to the Congress the restoration
of funds for this appropriation and the
elimination of the language which jeop-
ardizes our ability to support these inter-
national organizations. It will be impor-
tant that the Congress respond positively
to my recommendation so this Govern-
ment can meet its clear obligations under
the United Nations Charter and related
treaties.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12934 is Public Law
95-431, approved October 10.
Federal Employees Part-Time
Career Employment Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 10126 Into Law.
October 10, 1978
I have today signed the Federal Em-
ployees Part-Time Career Employment
Act of 1978, an important legislative con-
tribution to the broad effort to make the
Federal Government more effective and
manageable.
This act will facilitate part-time Fed-
eral employment. It will help us tap the
energies and talents of people who, for
various reasons, are unable to work full
time-older people, the handicapped, stu-
dents, women, especially those with fam-
ily responsibilities, and others.
Along with the recently enacted "flexi-
time" bill, this legislation will provide
more flexible—and more productive—
working arrangements for Federal
employees.
I congratulate Senators Gaylord Nelson
and Thomas Eagleton and Representa-
tives Patricia Schroeder and Yvonne B.
Burke for their leadership on this bill.
And I thank Chairmen Abraham Ribi-
coff and Robert Nix for their support.
This legislation puts the congressional
stamp of approval on an effort to which
my administration has been strongly
committed.
Last September, I directed Federal
agencies to open up opportunities for
men and women seeking part-time em-
ployment. This effort, coordinated by the
Civil Service Commission, has led to a
shift toward part-time jobs. It has also
confirmed the experience of private in-
dustry that expanded part-time employ-
ment can improve productivity and the
quality of working life.
1736
