Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cept as specifically amended hereby, Re-
organization Plan No. 4 remains un-
modified.
The White House,
September 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
AMENDMENT TO REORGANIZATION PLAN
No. 4 OF 1978
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives in Congress assembled September 20,
1978, pursuant to the provisions of Chap-
ter 9 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
Section 107 of Reorganization Plan No.
4 of 1978, which was transmitted to the
Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled on August 10, 1978,
is hereby amended to read:
"Section 107. Evaluation. On or before
January 31, 1980, the President will sub-
mit to both Houses of the Congress an
evaluation of the extent to which this
Reorganization Plan has alleviated the
problems associated with the present ad-
ministrative structure under ERISA, ac-
companied by specific legislative recom-
mendations for a long-term administra-
tive structure under ERISA."
Territory of the Virgin Islands
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Territory's Proposed Constitution.
September 20, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to the Congress
the proposed constitution for local self-
government for the Virgin Islands, as au-
thorized by Public Law 94-584. Until
now, an organic act of the Congress pro-
vided the basis for local government in
this unincorporated territory of the
United States.
A locally elected constitutional conven-
tion drafted the constitution over a period
of several months and held a series of pub-
lic hearings and meetings throughout the
Virgin Islands. The constitutional con-
vention approved the constitution in April
1978. On July 20, 1978, the Governor of
the Virgin Islands officially presented me
with the constitution.
By law, I must transmit the constitu-
tion to the Congress, along with com-
ments, within 60 days of the document's
receipt. The Congress then has 60 more
days to amend, modify, or approve it. As
approved or modified, the constitution
will be submitted to a referendum in the
for acceptance or
Virgin Islands
rejection.
Several Federal agencies have com-
mented on the constitution for the Execu-
tive Branch that it meets the criteria
established by Public Law 94-584: it is
consistent with sovereignty of the United
States, its constitution, and its laws ap-
plicable to the Virgin Islands; it provides
for a republican form of government with
executive, legislative, and judicial branch-
es;
it contains a bill of rights; it sets up a
system of local courts; and it deals with
those portions of the revised organic act
related to local self-government.
However, the agencies commenting on
the constitution noted several matters that
the Congress may wish to alter. Those
comments are attached.
I commend this accomplishment of the
members of the constitutional convention
and the other citizens of the Virgin Islands
who helped to draft the constitution. It is
a significant step toward greater local self-
government. It is therefore wholly appro-
priate that the electorate of the Virgin
Islands, and not the Federal Government,
has the ultimate right to accept or reject
it.
1556
