Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
not only of the Quadripartite principles
but also the transportation agreements be-
tween the east and the western part of
Germany.
I might say that I don't believe it helps
them. It focuses attention upon the GDR
and their absence of free movement, their
prevention of outmigration, their inabil-
ity to permit their own people to speak
out in dissent when they choose. And I
think the focusing of the world on the
differences between our free society and
theirs, which is not free, is not helpful to
them at all.
I visited the Wall a few minutes ago.
Fifteen years ago, when President Ken-
nedy came to visit the Wall, they covered.
the ugly spectacle with drapes. This morn-
ing at 2:30 a.m., the Eastern Germans
came and lowered their painters on the
western side of the Wall and whitewashed,
trying to cover the ugly spectacle again,
15 years later. I don't think anything can
hide the image of the deprivation of basic
human rights exemplified by the Wall.
This is the first time in history that I've
ever known when a wall was built, not to
protect one's nation from foreign aggres-
sors, but to protect one's own people from
the right to escape. And so I think the in-
terruption of traffic and the painting of
the Wall are demonstrations of that.
THE BERLIN WALL
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gertrude
Kempe-Rottmann. I'm a pensioner. And
my question is: For how long, Mr. Presi-
dent, do you think we've got to live with
the Wall in Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. [Laugh-
ter] I hope that it will be removed in the
future, but I have no idea when it might
be. I'm sorry, I can't give you a better
answer, but that's the truth.
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gert
Schulz-Lüke. I've got the foreign question
for you, Mr. President, which is: What
assessment or concepts do you or the U.S.
have of the unhampered energy supply of
Germany, based on energy that is not
subject to any political influencing-and
the energy supply also of Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's obvious
that almost all kinds of energy are subject
to political influence and interruption.
Since 1973, the world has become aware
of the prospect of gross interruptions of
the available energy for us all. And we've
become aware of the increasing prospect
of severe shortages.
My own Nation is one of the world's
greatest energy producers. We're also one
of the world's greatest energy users, and
we waste more energy than we should.
We're trying to correct this defect in our
own society.
I might add that one of the best ways
to preserve the flow of energy sources-
oil, gas, coal, nuclear power, the use of
hydroelectric power, solar power to a
people is to preserve peace on Earth.
I think the Middle East is an area which
can endanger the flow of crucial energy
supplies to you and also to our own coun-
try. I have probably devoted more of my
own personal time trying to bring about
a peaceful resolution of the differences
between Israel and her Arab neighbors
than any other single foreign policy since
I have been in office.
And we're also trying to secure perma-
nent peace with the Soviet Union. We
deeply desire to have détente with the
Soviet Union, a détente that's broad in its
scope, that has reciprocal benefits for
them and for us. We have, constantly,
procedures intact, never interrupted, to
bring about a SALT agreement, an agree-
ment on the end of testing of nuclear
1301
