Sept. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I meet with him frequently. He and I
both preserve our individuality and our
mutual independence, and I think we
have a very good attitude of mutual
support.
We have to be careful. I think one thing
that might be pointed out is that our
unemployment rate now, which is hover-
ing very close to the 6-percent level, is
about as low as we anticipated would be
the case at the end of 1979. What we need
to guard against now is that as we reduce
inflation below what it is, that we don't
see a trend upward in the unemployment
rate, but a continuing, at least some trend
downward.
So, I think that judging by our past
experience in the last 12 months or less
that we've not seen any indication that
the higher interest rates charged are head-
ing us toward a recession and high
unemployment.
FOOD PRICES
Q. Mr. President, Mel Stack, Retail
Clerks Union. As you know, our union
has taken a positive stance on the ques-
tion of inflation.
THE PRESIDENT. And I thank you for
it.
Q. Well, we strongly feel that wages are
not at the root of the rising costs, and
especially of rising food costs.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's true.
Q. I must say that we were very dis-
turbed that Barry Bosworth singled out
our industry and told the Food Market
Institute that he would monitor our nego-
tiations closely. Naturally we were happy
last week to hear that Mr. Bosworth was
not speaking for the administration and
that pronouncements about collective
bargaining would henceforth be coordi-
nated by a top-level committee.
Mr. President, would you care at this
time to comment about the inflationary
factors that have an impact on food
prices, especially such ones as imports,
grain and cattle supplies, and energy?
THE PRESIDENT. The most serious,
long-range threat to our economy is the
rapidly increasing import of energy. In
the last 6 years our energy imports have
increased more than 800 percent, an al-
most unbelievable amount. In 1972 oil
imports were $4.7 billion; this past 12
months, they've been $42 billion-likely
to be even more in the future. That has
very serious results in unemployment in
our country and also a higher rate of
inflation.
We have experienced last winter and
last year a very unusual season, and the
beef industry and other agricultural pro-
duction was severely hurt-beef over a
long period of time, other production of
food, particularly vegetables and short-
life growing crops, very adversely. So, the
first 6 months of this year food prices went
up 182 percent. My guess is, my predic-
tion is, based on the economic advisers'
analyses, is that the last half of this year
food prices will rise much more slowly.
There's going to be a shortage of beef
for the next 3 or 4 years, possibly on a
worldwide basis, because it takes so long
to build up a beef herd. You have to save
a heifer that would have been slaugh-
tered, let that heifer reach maturity, have
the heifer bred. The heifer ultimately has
a calf the gestation period is about 9
months and then the calf has to grow
up large enough to be slaughtered, which
is 30 months, at least, in that interval.
We're trying now to encourage beef
producers to build up the size of their
herds and to let them know that there
will be some stability in market prices.
I would guess the rest of this year beef
prices would hover in the neighborhood
from $50 to $60 a hundredweight.
I did increase the import level of beef
products, and I don't have any apology
1494
