Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
mony on almost everything. But to say
that we are wasting money or to insinuate
that we might be wasting money because
we build weapons that are never used and
that rust away in the warehouse is exactly
what we hope. We build weapons for
peace and to let the world know that our
Nation is strong. And I hope that when
we build a Trident submarine, or when
we build ICBM's, or when we build a
tank, or when we build a rocket or an air-
plane, that it will never be used, that it
will never be used. And only the accurate
knowledge in the Kremlin that we are
strong and that we are going to stay strong
and not vulnerable is the only guarantee
that we will not have to use our weapons
and not have to expend the lives of our
young people in combat.
And as you well know, there is no way
to evolve a budget and to keep it secret.
The budget will be revealed to the
American people early next year, to the
Congress for a decision. And I think we
have so far had a very well-balanced
assessment of our total resources, and a
well-balanced commitment of those re-
sources between international affairs
and domestic affairs, between social pro-
grams and defense programs.
The last thing I'd like to say is this:
It takes two nations to negotiate an
agreement. And if I could have unilat-
erally sat down in the Oval Office and
written a SALT agreement, it might be
different from what I had to negotiate
over the last 20 months with the Soviets.
Again, I think we will have negotiated
a very fine SALT II agreement, and we
have personnally fought for much more
drastic reductions than the Soviets have
yet been willing to accept. This is a con-
tinuing process. It's been going on for
years, even decades. And my commit-
ment is, as I said in my inaugural ad-
dress, to remove the threat of nuclear
weapons completely from the world. I
don't know if I'll accomplish this while
I'm in office, but that's my goal. And
I'm going to do the best I can to achieve
that goal as President of this country.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. I recognize
the delegate to my left.
ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL
Q. Thank you very much. My name
is John Morgan, and I'm a delegate from
Pennsylvania, from Butler County, North
Allegheny County.
Mr. President, in the newspapers and,
oh, just generally over the past year,
I've just been reading a tremendous
amount of things about the Volunteer
Army, the condition of the personnel in
the Armed Forces in general. I know
that when there is no active war, the
military doesn't really keep everybody too
much in shape. I know there's a difficulty
with getting recruits when there's no real
concrete threat. But at the same time-
I was a draftee myself—I really can't see
why or how we can leave the quality of
our personnel with these instruments of
death that we invent and the great need
that we have--I cannot see how we can
leave our personnel deteriorate to the
point where it's a threat, or even con-
sidered to be a threat in the newspapers.
I really feel that there's a need for a draft
system, that there's a need for a recon-
sideration of the present volunteer system
in the Army that should be made.
Now, part of the problem, it's a ques-
tion of looking at your own people and
saying, well, you know, you're not doing
a job. This is terribly difficult, and you
don't want to do that. It breaks the
morale down right there. But the thing
is that it's quite clear to me that the time
has now come or is coming in the
immediate future where we're going to
have to reconsider, partly because of
the reductions of the SALT talks and
2207
