Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
-a group of administration officials to
discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
-the Energy Coordinating Commit-
tee;
-the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
December 20
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-a group of administration officials to
discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
-Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of
Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jor-
dan, Assistant to the President, and
Dr. Brzezinski;
-a group of Democratic mayors to dis-
cuss the fiscal year 1980 budget;
-a group of Governors to discuss the
fiscal year 1980 budget.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted a
Christmas reception in the afternoon for
members of the Residence staff and their
families on the State Floor of the White
House.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted
a Christmas reception in the evening for
members of the White House press corps
on the State Floor of the White House.
December 21
At the President's direction, Deputy
Secretary of State Warren Christopher
will lead a mission to Taiwan to discuss
arrangements regarding the maintenance
of commercial, cultural, and other rela-
tions between the American and Taiwan-
ese peoples. This mission will coordinate,
with the Taiwanese authorities, the gen-
eral framework within which these un-
official relations are to be conducted
after January 1, 1978. The mission to
Taiwan will include Adm. Maurice Wies-
ner, USN, Commander in Chief, Pacific;
Herbert Hansell, Legal Adviser of the De-
partment of State; Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of State for East Asian and Pacific
Affairs Roger Sullivan; Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for International
Security Affairs Michael Armacost; and
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce
W. Dean Moran. The delegation will ar-
rive in Taipei on December 27 and leave
Taipei on December 29.
The President declared a major disaster
for the State of Arizona as a result of
severe storms and flooding, beginning
about December 17, which caused exten-
sive public and private property damage.
December 22
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-a group of administration officials to
discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget.
The President left the White House
for a trip to Atlanta and Plains, Ga.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
NOTE: The Congress having adjourned sine
die on Sunday, October 15, no nominations
were submitted during the period covered by
this issue. The first session of the 96th Con-
gress will begin on Monday, January 15, 1979.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following releases of the Office of the
White House Press Secretary, distributed dur-
ing the period covered by this issue, are not
included in the issue.
Released December 20, 1978
Advance text: address before the Foreign Pol-
icy Association-by Zbigniew Brzezinski, As-
sistant to the President for National Security
Affairs
2281
