Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
1-102. The Commission shall consist of
not more than thirty-four members as fol-
lows:
(a) The President shall appoint twenty-
four members of the Commission and shall
designate one of these members to chair
the Commission.
the Interior. Such rate shall not exceed
that payable pursuant to the Federal
Advisory Committee Act.
1-303. Members of the Commission
shall be entitled to travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
(b) The Speaker of the House of Rep- 5703) for persons in the Government
service employed intermittently.
resentatives and the President of the Sen-
ate are each invited to designate five
members of their respective Houses to
serve as members of the Commission.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall submit a
report to the President and the Secretary
of the Interior containing its recommend-
ations with respect to the establishment
and maintenance of an appropriate me-
morial to those who perished in the Holo-
caust.
1-202. The Commission's report shall
examine the feasibility of obtaining funds
for creation and maintenance of the
Memorial through contributions by the
American people.
1-203. The Commission shall recom-
mend appropriate ways for the nation to
commemorate April 28 and 29, 1979,
which the Congress has resolved shall be
"Days of Remembrance of Victims of the
Holocaust."
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-304. The functions of the President
under the Federal Advisory Committee
Act which are applicable to the Commis-
sion, except that of reporting to the Con-
gress, shall be performed by the Secretary
of the Interior in accordance with guide-
lines and procedures prescribed by the
Administrator of General Services.
1-4. Final Report and Termination
1-401. The Commission shall submit
its final report to the President and the
Secretary of the Interior not later than six
months from the date of its first meeting.
1-402. The Commission shall termi-
nate not later than thirty days after sub-
mitting its final report.
The White House,
November 1, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:50 p.m., November 1, 1978]
1–301. To the extent permitted by law, Office of Management and Budget
the Secretary of the Interior shall provide
all necessary administrative services, fa-
cilities, support, and funds necessary for
the performance of the Commission's
functions.
1-302. Each member of the Commis-
sion who is not otherwise employed in the
Government may receive compensation
for each day such member is engaged in
the work of the Commission at a daily
rate to be determined by the Secretary of
Recess Appointment of John P. White as
Deputy Director. November 1, 1978
The President today announced the
recess appointment of John P. White as
Deputy Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. White was nom-
inated October 7, 1978, but was not con-
firmed by the Senate before they ad-
journed.
1921
