Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 25
other agency of the Executive Branch.
Current statutes provide the Chief Coun-
sel with sufficient authorities to evaluate
small business issues and serve as an om-
budsman to small business interests.
I am also concerned by the loan pooling
provision in this bill that would authorize
private dealers to issue a new class of 100
percent federally guaranteed securities
which would compete directly with the
Treasury and other federally-backed se-
curities in the bond markets.
I look forward to working with the Con-
gress and the small business community
who worked on this bill to develop a pro-
gram to meet the needs of small business.
It is my great hope that early in the next
Congress an approach will be fashioned to
meet the needs of the small business com-
munity, with the full involvement of my
Administration.
JIMMY CARTER
Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 1566 Into Law.
October 25, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law today the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of
1978. As I said a year and a half ago at
the beginning of the process that pro-
duced this bill, "one of the most difficult
tasks in a free society like our own is the
correlation between adequate intelligence
to guarantee our Nation's security on the
one hand, and the preservation of basic
human rights on the other."
This is a difficult balance to strike, but
the act I am signing today strikes it. It
sacrifices neither our security nor our civil
liberties. And it assures that those who
serve this country in intelligence positions
will have the affirmation of Congress that
their activities are lawful.
In working on this bill, the Congress
dealt skillfully with sensitive issues. The
result shows our country benefits when
the legislative and executive branches of
Government work together toward a com-
mon goal.
The bill requires, for the first time, a
prior judicial warrant for all electronic
surveillance for foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence purposes in the
United States in which communications
of U.S. persons might be intercepted. It
clarifies the Executive's authority to
gather foreign intelligence by electronic
surveillance in the United States. It will
remove any doubt about the legality of
those surveillances which are conducted
to protect our country against espionage
and international terrorism. It will assure
FBI field agents and others involved in
intelligence collection that their acts are
authorized by statute and, if a U.S. per-
son's communications are concerned, by
a court order. And it will protect the
privacy of the American people.
In short, the act helps to solidify the
relationship of trust between the Ameri-
can people and their Government. It pro-
vides a basis for the trust of the American
people in the fact that the activities of
their intelligence agencies are both effec-
tive and lawful. It provides enough
secrecy to ensure that intelligence relat-
ing to national security can be securely ac-
quired, while permitting review by the
courts and Congress to safeguard the
rights of Americans and others.
This legislation is the first long step to-
ward the goal of establishing statutory
charters for our intelligence agencies. I
am committed to that goal, and my ad-
ministration will work with the Congress
to achieve it.
1853
