Sept. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
proposals for the resettlement of the im-
portant commercial and resort city of
Varosha (New Famagusta). Varosha has
been deserted and under Turkish control
since the 1974 fighting. Significantly, both
sides foresee that progress on this issue
will lead to a resumption of the intercom-
munal negotiations.
We have urged the two Cypriot parties
to give these proposals careful considera-
tion, and plan to continue to encourage a
satisfactory compromise on Varosha, one
we hope will lead them to reconvene the
intercommunal negotiations under the
aegis of the Secretary General of the
United Nations.
Both the Congress and the Admin-
istration feel that the United States 1)
should continue to play an active role in
seeking a just and lasting Cyprus settle-
ment, and 2) should continue to support
the efforts of Secretary General Wald-
heim. On August 14, the conference com-
mittee on the Security Assistance Bill ap-
proved the language to end the Turkish
Arms Embargo. I consider this action ap-
propriate and necessary to our continu-
ing impartial and constructive role.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 1, 1978.
National Day of Prayer, 1978
Proclamation 4591. September 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our Nation, perhaps more than any
other, has always held a special cog-
nizance of the gifts of the Creator. We
were founded upon a belief in, and rever-
ence for, the liberty of the human spirit
under God and the equality of all peo-
ple before the Almighty. Regardless of
our individual conceptions of the Divine,
Americans have always sought from Prov-
idence the help and guidance necessary
to live justly and to build a better world
for all who share this planet.
Today we face challenges equal to any
in our history. Few generations have been
given such opportunities for good or ill
on Earth. We approach our responsibility
confidently, but with sobering awareness
that God's sea is very great, and our ship,
infinitely small.
From time to time we should turn to
the Almighty for help and guidance, as
we have done throughout our Nation's
two hundred and three years. In humility
and reverence, we should pause from our
daily activities to thank our Creator for
the bountiful goodness that imbues our
lives, and to ask for His blessing in the
days ahead.
Recognizing this, the Congress by joint
resolution approved April 17, 1952 (36
U.S.C. 185; 66 Stat. 64) has called upon
the President to set aside a suitable day
each year as a National Day of Prayer.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim Saturday, Oc-
tober 7, 1978, as National Day of Prayer.
I ask all Americans to join with me on
that day in asking God's help that we
may see and understand our responsibil-
ities and discharge them with wisdom,
strength, and patience.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this first day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:27 a.m., September 5, 1978]
1482
