Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
proposals in the basic rationale and
reasoning for public service.
the law the labor relations aspects of change represented by some of those
Government employment, which have
in the past only been instituted by Exec-
utive order of the President and which
could be eliminated in a time of labor
dispute or crisis, simply by the stroke of
a pen.
There is no way that this legislation
which has been proposed and which the
Congress is considering can possibly hurt
any competent and dedicated public
servant.
All these things are encompassed in a
very far-reaching piece of legislation.
Congressman Joe Fisher, who is here
tonight with us, and other Members of
Congress in the audience, Scotty Camp-
bell, a professional, this panel, and I will
now discuss the details of the legislation
which affects many people in this area
and all over the country, as a matter of
fact. And following this discussion
around the table, we'll have questions
from the audience.
Again, let me thank you for a chance
to come and, through your own presence
and the television broadcast in this area,
to let the people of our Government con-
sider how we can make it even better in
the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
PANEL DISCUSSION
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES
DWIGHT F. RETTIE. Mr. President,
thank you for meeting with us. I'm a
career professional, now proud to be
serving with the National Park Service.
I have a career that spans some 22 years
of public service that has touched on
four departments in our Government.
I'm very pleased to tell you that I warm-
ly welcome and grandly support much
of your efforts to modernize the civil
service, but I'm deeply troubled by what
seems to me to be a very fundamental
Unlike much of private industry, the
work of government can only rarely be
evaluated on profit-and-loss statements
or in the products of an assembly line.
Most of the career people, including my-
self, whom I've been associated with
draw their principal rewards from
highly intangible, albeit deeply felt sat-
isfactions of helping to try to make a
difference in the quality of national life.
Adequate pay, of course, is important.
And legislation for comparability of pay
was intended to resolve that issue. But
now it's suggested that the best way to
recruit and motivate and retain people for
quality public service is with the chance
for cash bonuses and incentive pay and
membership in an elite managerial corps.
Mr. President, how will it be possible
to borrow from private industry a re-
wards-and-bonus system that seems so
basically at odds with the concept of pub-
lic service?
THE PRESIDENT. I've chosen a career
of public service myself. Recognizing that
the profit from someone who serves, as you
and I and these others do, is in the better
delivery of services to our fellow citizens
through government, the Senior Execu-
tive Service concept is designed to let
those who are competent, who are highly
motivated, and who are successful in their
efforts be rewarded not just with in-
creased monetary gain, income, but also
with increased responsibility, a chance to
serve better, to let their own influence,
their own talents be used to a much
greater and fuller extent.
I think it's accurate to say that the
organizations which represent the execu-
tive-level public servant is overwhelming-
ly in favor of this legislation. So, it's not
just a matter of increased financial re-
ward; it's also a matter of letting those
1362
