Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
• continued support will be given for
the special outreach programs for Vet-
erans operated by the National Alliance
for Business and selected community or-
ganizations. One of the most important
contributions government can make to
Vietnam-era Veterans is to support out-
reach programs. They extend Veterans
services to those who are unaware of the
availability of assistance or intimidated
by the idea of seeking it. We have ex-
tended our outreach efforts through
HIRE II program and Veterans organi-
zations. The National Alliance for Busi-
ness and 13 other private programs funded
by the Department of Labor must have
continued backing.
• maintain current funding levels for
the Disabled Veterans Outreach Program
(DVOP). DVOP was originally funded
as part of the economic stimulus package,
but the program deserves to continue at
its current level of $30 million. DVOP
employs 2,000 disabled Veterans to help
find jobs for other disabled Veterans. So
far, 26,000 disabled Veterans have found
work through the program and it contin-
ues to be targeted at those Veterans with
the severest employment problems.
improve coordination between De-
partment of Labor and Veterans Admin-
istration employment programs. These
programs will become more efficient as
departmental policy links are clarified by
a new high-level joint committee ap-
pointed by the Secretary of Labor and the
Veterans Administrator. Money-wasting
duplication of effort will be ended.
• order all Federal agencies to make
greater use of the Veterans Readjustment
Appointment (VRA) authority to bring
Vietnam-era Veterans, especially the dis-
abled, into government service. I have al-
ready submitted legislation to liberalize
and extend the authority to June 30, 1980.
The bill has passed both Houses of Con-
gress and is now in conference.
II. EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
Vietnam-era Veterans are in the proc-
ess of becoming the best educated group
of Veterans in our history. Already, 65%
of Vietnam-era Veterans have taken ad-
vantage of the GI Bill. That compares to
a final rate of some 51% for World War
II Veterans and 43% for Veterans of the
Korean War. The Nation has spent nearly
$25 billion on the GI Bill for Vietnam-era
Veterans compared with $14 billion for
those who served in World War II and
$4.5 billion for Veterans of the Korean
conflict.
But these readjustment assistance bene-
fits often have not been utilized by those
Vietnam-era Veterans who need them the
most. Many members of minority groups
and those lacking a high school diploma
have not taken full advantage of the GI
Bill. For them, outreach efforts must be
intensified and eligibility expanded. At
present, eligibility for most benefits under
the GI Bill generally ends ten years after
discharge. Although these provisions are
more liberal than for Veterans of previous
wars, we will:
-submit legislation to the Congress
that would extend eligibility beyond ten
years for these Veterans the Veterans Ad-
ministration defines as in need or educa-
tionally disadvantaged.
-continue a VA program called "Op-
eration Boost" designed to seek out Vet-
erans who are unaware of the time limit
that is fast approaching for many of them.
III. OTHER VETERANS SERVICES AND
BENEFITS
In general, Veterans benefits have been
generous for Vietnam-era Veterans, but
these and other benefits to which they are
entitled need to be targeted better on
those who really need them. Among those
1740
