Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 8
leadership of Hugh Carey and Ed Koch,
I have no doubt that that goal will be
met.
One of the first actions that I took after
I was elected President, before I was
inaugurated, was to meet in Georgia with
Mayor Beame and with Governor Carey
and with other officials to commit my ad-
ministration, then just being formed, to a
long-term, serious, responsible, adequate,
and cooperative effort to help New York
help itself out of its chronic fiscal prob-
lems. This bill is the fruit of that com-
mitment.
When we proposed this legislation 5
months ago, most people did not think it
had much of a chance. That was before
Secretary Blumenthal and I and many of
you here convinced other Members of
Congress how hard New York has worked
in the past 3 years to solve your own prob-
lems-problems that were decades in the
making and that were really partly the
consequences of circumstances far beyond
the city's control.
New York has reduced its work force
by 60,000 and its real budget deficit by
more than a billion dollars. Under the
Federal Seasonal Loan program, New
York has paid back every penny either on
time or ahead of schedule, and as you well
know, with interest. The people in Wash-
ington, D.C., the people in Georgia, thank
you for that.
The credit for these achievements be-
longs to many different groups of indi-
viduals. New Yorkers have rallied to your
city's colors. Groups that are usually
thought of as natural enemies or competi-
tors have worked together constructively
toward a common goal. Labor and busi-
ness, bankers and bureaucrats, Democrats
and Republicans, politicians and ordinary
citizens-all have joined together to take
care of long-neglected problems. All have
shown determination and courage in mak-
ing the sacrifices that have been necessary
and that will continue to be necessary.
And this is a message that was heard by
the Congress of the United States. The
successful lobbying was done by your
actions, not by anybody's words.
Throughout the process, New York's
leadership team has been exemplary. The
State of New York has had many great
Governors over the last number of years,
but I don't know of anyone who has ever
done more for New York City than Hugh
Carey.
In 1975, New York City faced a finan-
cial emergency that was unprecedented in
its magnitude and complexity. In that
dark hour, Hugh Carey's personal leader-
ship was magnificent. Without his un-
flinching courage, New York might not
have come through this crisis at all. He is
what we Southern Baptists from Georgia
call a real mensch. [Laughter]
And Ed Koch is a strong mayor. He's
refused to sugar-coat the difficult truths
about your fiscal problems. He's never
tried to mislead anyone, and New Yorkers
have responded to his frankness, his hon-
esty, and his candor.
As mayor, he's led New York in impos-
ing tough discipline on itself. He's made
the commitment to get New York's budget
into true balance in 4 years' time, so that
New York can once again regain its fiscal
independence.
I know that Ed Koch likes to go up
to people on the street and ask, "How'm
I doing?" Well, if you ask me, Ed, you're
doing great.
Both Hugh Carey and Ed Koch are
former Members of Congress, as you
know, and they have earned the trust of
their colleagues on Capitol Hill. Both
have been effective spokesmen for New
York City at the national level.
The New York congressional delega-
tion, every one of them in the House and
Senate, have been superb, and they are
1399
