Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
was born, my first daughter, after Rosa-
lynn and I had been married 21 years.
And she now is proud to call herself a
double-digit preteenager. [Laughter]
She's a great young lady and the joy of
our lives.
And I was able to have with me in the
last few days my two grandsons. And
we're expecting, I hope, a new grand-
daughter in just a few days from now.
[Laughter]
I
When I was invited to come here for
this special observance of the family-
what it means under the guidance of
Jesus Christ and the great Nation of the
United States of America, supported and
strengthened by the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, publicized
and promoted by this special week-I
wondered what I wanted to say to you.
thought about the early Mormons coming
across this country, singing a famous
hymn, I think, that originated in Eng-
land, "Come, Come Ye Saints." I thought
about the times of trial in our country, a
time when strength was demanded of all
of us, a time when we sometimes feel
alone.
Only a deep faith could let the words
of that song, "All Is Well," ring out. In
times when you and your forefathers were
persecuted, driven one from another,
crossed this land looking for freedom, a
chance to worship in your own way, when
perhaps you knew that you were about
to die, when drought and thirst afflicted
you and still the song rang out "All Is
Well.” This is indeed a demonstration of
an act of faith and a reaffirmation of
hope.
I come here as President of a great
country. And in that same act of faith
and in affirmation of hope, I tell you
that
our Nation can say all is well. And even
the American family can be characterized
by the same phrase, all is well. Because as
was your early church in the minds and
hearts of your own forefathers, so is our
Nation and the family so precious, so
dear, so innately good and right and de-
cent and strong, that challenges to us, to
our Nation, to the American family can
successfully be withstood.
I grew up in an isolated place, 3 miles
west of Plains, Georgia, on a farm, where
a family was indeed a self-contained com-
munity, where every member of the family
felt wanted and loved and secure. When
I was sad or hurt, my mother was there,
my father was there. We worked together.
Some plowed a mule; some carried and
dropped a seed or fertilizer; some hoed
out weeds; some carried water to the field
for the others to drink; some took care of
the hogs or the cows or the chickens;
some kept the home secure. But in every
instance each knew that the other one
was contributing, and the children under-
stood the function of the parents, and the
parents understood and loved the chil-
dren. There was easy communication
among us. And in our relatively primi-
tive, isolated state of living, we were
bound together by love.
My first church was my family. I first
heard the Bible read in my family. I first
heard prayer in my family. I learned
about God within the family. My first
school was my family. My first govern-
ment was my family. There, in an embry-
onic stage of growth, I began to perceive
the world around me. And when I had
questions, they were answered. When I
had doubts, they were resolved. When I
had needs, they were met. My family was
strong. And there was very little need for
services to be derived from government
for us.
heard prayer in my
And since I've served in the State leg-
islature and as Governor of a State and
now as President, and participated in in-
ternational affairs, I've learned more and
2085
