Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
dent wants and what the people of Minne-
sota want, he listens to the voices back
home. And that's the way it ought to be.
But I'm thankful that in the White
House, I've got a man who's a full part-
ner with me, who does the best he can,
almost always successfully, to be sure that
the President wants what the Minnesota
people want and that's Fritz Mondale.
I think I can say without anyone dis-
puting this that there has never been in
the history of the United States a closer
and more valuable partnership between
the President of our country and the Vice
President of our country, than between
Jimmy Carter and Fritz Mondale. And
I'm thankful for that.
There are no decisions which I make
in which he is not involved. He is my
foremost adviser, my closest confidant.
He's the man to whom I turn when I
have a problem or have trouble or a diffi-
culty that I can't resolve. He knows this
country well. He knows the Members of
Congress. His ideals, his standards, his in-
tegrity is absolutely impeccable, and you
know that. But I would like to thank you
for training a man and giving to me a man
to serve as Vice President with the qual-
ities that Fritz Mondale has brought to
my administration. Thank you very much.
Of course he helps me in domestic af-
fairs, presiding over the Senate. But when
I got in trouble at Camp David a few
weeks ago, and it became obvious to me
that the situation was hopeless and that
both the Egyptians and the Israelis were
ready to leave and go home, I put in a
call to Fritz Mondale.
I said, "Fritz, what are your plans for
the day?" And he said, "I have three
States to visit. My promises have already
been made." And I said, "I would like
for you to cancel that trip and come to
Camp David," which he did. And it
doubled the ability that I had to deal
effectively with Prime Minister Begin and
President Sadat, because I never had any
doubt that when Fritz Mondale was talk-
ing to President Sadat or to Prime Minis-
ter Begin or their delegations, that he
spoke with the same authority and the
same voice as though I was there myself.
But the most important thing was that
there was no doubt in the minds of Sadat
and Begin that when Fritz Mondale
spoke, he was speaking for the President
of the United States. And we are indeed
fortunate in this country to have a man
like him as Vice President. I sincerely
hope that you will not tell him what I said
about him. [Laughter]
Let me close by saying this: It's no ac-
cident, as I said earlier, that Fritz and I
have come together here. This is the most
important State in the Nation for elec-
tions this year. You've come here to see
a President. You've come here because
you're interested in government. But your
coming here is not enough.
I would like for every one of you when
you leave here to resolve in your own
heart to make a contribution to your coun-
try by sending to Washington two Demo-
cratic United States Senators, eight Demo-
cratic Members of Congress, and keeping
in office a fine Democratic Governor and
his administration.
You believe that all of us when we get
in office should do a good job. But the
responsibility is also on your shoulder.
And I have seen many fine candidates lose
an election--that close-because their
best friends, allies, neighbors, relatives,
supporters took an election for granted or
were not willing to invest a tiny bit of
one's own character and ability and fi-
nances in a successful campaign.
There is no one here that can't go
home, no matter how old or young you
might be, and become a campaign mana-
ger for the candidates that you admire so
1825
