Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
all of my past reports on property tax
evaluations have been assessed. And I
think I've got to pay a net of about $750
after all that effort. I don't object to it.
But the fact that an investigation is
held of a political figure, a controversial
and progressive mayor or a President,
doesn't mean that there is any substance
to the allegations or any illegalities in-
volved. Of course, we were familiar with
the fact that investigations were being
held concerning Mayor Hatcher at the
time I offered him a top position in the
White House, and I wish he had ac-
cepted. I still have complete confidence in
him.
After careful consideration of that
offer, he decided to stay in his present
position. And I understood his reasons.
There are no hard feelings about it. Since
he already has assessed a very attractive
position in the Government and rejected,
I don't have any plans to offer him an-
other position any time soon.
Q. So, the reports that have been cir-
culating since he came into office in 1968
you feel for the most part are without
foundation?
THE PRESIDENT. So far as I know. Ob-
viously I have not conducted any investi-
gation. But knowing that the investiga-
tions were being conducted, I was willing
to offer him a top position, which indi-
cates my attitude.
STATE LEGISLATURE SALARY INCREASES
Q. Mr. President, Joe Fenley from Day-
ton, Ohio. On Wednesday, the Ohio Sen-
ate approved the 28-percent pay increase
for the State legislature. The house has
yet to vote on that measure. And one
State senator who voted against it, who
was elected to Congress in November, he's
already been threatened with being re-
districted out of Congress by 1980. Would
you comment on that in relation to the
kind of interjectories with your policy?
THE PRESIDENT. It doesn't help at all.
[Laughter] My own longstanding belief is
that Congress Members and legislative
members should not raise their own salar-
ies during current terms of office; that any
time a salary increase is voted by public
officials after they have been elected, it
ought to be delayed in its effective date
until after the next election.
Obviously, to increase legislative salar-
ies in Ohio or Illinois or anywhere else by
25 or 30 percent, when we are really try-
ing to hold down wage increases to a 7-
percent level, works counter to the best
interest of our Nation in controlling in-
flation. I say that with the full realization
that that's an autonomous body and that
I don't have any control over it.
But I would hope that legislators
around the country would join in with us
in exercising restraint during these times
when inflation ought to be in the forefront
and when elected officials ought to set an
example.
ENERGY PROGRAMS
Q. I'd like to ask two questions about
energy. What are your plans for Phase II
after the present congressional bill takes
effect, and how do you plan to deal with
the inflationary effects of energy imports
increasing and doubling to a hundred bil-
lion dollars in costs by 1985?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we'll continue
to try to implement fully the energy pro-
posal I put to the Congress in April of
1977, which would have resulted in about
a 42 million barrel-per-day savings. The
bills that were passed, we estimate they'll
save about 2.6 million barrels a day, about
60 percent success.
In the so-called Phase II effort, there
are many facets involved. One is a suc-
cessful administration of the very compli-
2152
