Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
conquest, channeling our competition in-
ternationally into peaceful means and
peaceful ends. These are the accomplish-
ments of a privileged nation, privileged
in our resources, privileged in our place
in the world.
me,
It is these very privileges that sober
for I believe that they constitute the
moral obligation of our times. I want to
talk tonight about the responsibilities
that privilege imposes, especially on
those who hold positions of leadership, as
do all of you, whether in government or
private corporations, or who lead our
societies in other ways.
We meet at an unusual time in our
world's history. It's a moment of relative
calm. We are more or less free of overt,
international warfare, more or less free
of the severe dislocations that have dis-
rupted our economies in the past. Yet, in
this moment, we must face the deeper
problems of humanity. None of us can
ignore hunger, although we may never
personally experience hunger. We cannot
ignore the problems of overpopulation
or the unequal division of the world's
goods, even though we might obviously
have gotten and retained more than our
share.
We've all learned that in an interde-
pendent world, we can only advance
when we advance together. As human
beings, our sense of mercy and justice is
offended when injustice so freely reigns.
It's in this time of relative calm that
we can assess our reasons, weigh our ob-
ligations, and decide how best to exert
and apply our efforts to these great obli-
gations that you and I face together as
leaders.
There is one responsibility that tran-
scends all others, and that is the cause of
peace. Leaders often underestimate the
wisdom of our people and how much our
people desire peace.
We saw a dramatic demonstration of
this recently. Almost a year ago, when two
brave leaders, President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin, took the first long step
toward peace, their people rejoiced on the
streets. Where they expected hatred, there
was obvious demonstration of friendship
and even love. Where they expected dis-
pleasure or condemnation, there was over-
whelming rejoicing.
My belief is that the great hunger for a
peaceful world imposes on us the obliga-
tion to use the resources we control con-
structively, to use them to minimize fric-
tions that can lead to war. And my be-
lief is that the people of other neighboring
countries, even in the Middle East, also
equally yearn for peace, even though some
leaders may not yet recognize this fact.
As the leader of my own Government,
there is no responsibility that I take more
seriously. It guides every decision I make
about our Nation's defense forces. For I
know that our unquestioned strength is
the surest guarantee for liberty for our-
curity in the world.
selves and perhaps even stability and se-
But I also know that the pursuit of
military strength alone is not enough. We
must have the confidence and the courage
to pursue every avenue for peace, and to
realize that this pursuit is not a sign of
weakness. That is why Secretary Vance
and I have just spent long hours, even
yesterday, with Foreign Minister Gro-
myko, negotiating in earnest hope of an
early agreement on a strategic arms limi-
tation treaty between our countries.
But government does not bear the sole
responsibility for peace. Throughout his-
tory, the forces that can unite us also have
often driven us apart. Ideology, religion,
allegiance to national soil, all have the
power to bring war among peoples, or to
enable them to find peace and concord.
This audience possesses another such
powerful force. Within this century we've
1690
