Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 17
cerned. The heads of state and govern-
ment urge other governments to join them
in this commitment.
NOTE: Chancellor Helmut Schmidt read the
joint statement during his remarks at the Bonn
Stadt Theater at the conclusion of the Bonn
Economic Summit Conference.
Bonn Economic Summit
Conference
Remarks at the Conclusion of the Conference.
July 17, 1978
Having been fortunate enough to make
an official state visit to the Federal Re-
public of Germany immediately prior to
the summit conference, I would like to
express the thanks, on behalf of all the
American delegation, to President Scheel,
to Chancellor Schmidt, and to the peo-
ple of the Federal Republic, for their
hospitality.
I have been very pleased at the results
of this summit conference. The results
have exceeded the expectation of all of
us. The discussions and the conclusions
have been carefully prepared. Each one
of us has been cautious at this summit
not to promise things which we could not
subsequently deliver.
The assessments have been long, some-
times tedious, but comprehensive in na-
ture. They are substantive and specific. I
think each leader has gone the limit,
within the bounds of political actualities,
to contribute everything possible from our
own individual nations to the common
well-being of the world.
Our contributions have been mutually
supportive. They have been different, one
from another, because our capabilities and
our needs are different.
We have dealt with the very serious
problem of protectionism and mutually
committed ourselves to successfully con-
cluding the multilateral trade negotia-
tions to permit free markets to keep our
people employed at home.
The Federal Republic of Germany, the
Government of Japan, have generously
committed themselves to increased eco-
nomic growth. Other nations have joined
in this commitment. The United States,
recognizing our own responsibilities, and
at the request of others, have committed
ourselves to a comprehensive energy policy
and its implementation-to cut down the
importation of oil by 22 million barrels a
day by the year 1985, to raise the price of
oil, which is too cheap in our own coun-
try, to the world market level to discour-
age waste.
We and the Canadians have recognized
our need to provide some predictability,
some dependability upon a supply of nu-
clear fuels to other nations, commensu-
rate with a mutual profession against pro-
liferation of nuclear explosives and the ad-
herence to international safeguards.
We have all been concerned about in-
flation and have made our plans to deal
with this all-pervasive threat throughout
the world.
This is a time when we also recognize
our strength, our stability, the benefits of
peace. And our hope is that in the analysis
of transient problems, with which we are
trying to deal successfully, that we need
not ever lose sight of the base of common
purpose that binds us together in a suc-
cessful endeavor in the free and demo-
cratic nations of the world.
We will be carefully monitoring prog-
ress after this summit adjourns, to make
sure that those commitments made in sin-
cerity are not forgotten nor abandoned in
the months ahead.
I would like to say, finally, that we have
not forgotten the developing nations of
1309
