Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 13
Federal Compliance With
Pollution Control Standards
Statement on Signing Executive Order 12088.
October 13, 1978
I am pleased to sign this Executive or-
der, which will ensure that Federal facil-
ities and Federal activities live up to the
spirit and the letter of the Nation's en-
vironmental protection laws. This admin-
istration is committed to the goals of
achieving and maintaining a clean en-
vironment. The Federal Government it-
self should be the leader in that effort, and
this order will help establish that leader-
ship.
I am confident that the Congress will
support this action. Over 100 Members
of the House of Representatives have writ-
ten to me expressing their concern with
the Federal Government's laggard efforts
in the past, and Representatives Paul
Rogers and Timothy Wirth deserve par-
ticular credit for their continuing atten-
tion to this problem.
From now on, all Federal facilities must
comply with the same Federal, State, and
local environmental standards, procedural
requirements, and schedules for cleanup
that apply to individual citizens and cor-
porations. I personally will review re-
quests for exemptions, and I will grant
them only in cases where I find that na-
tional security or the paramount interest
of the Nation is at stake. I have ordered
that the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget attempt to resolve any conflicts
that may arise between Federal agencies
and other units of government.
For the fiscal year which is now begin-
ning, the Federal Government will spend
over $484 million to correct problems at
facilities that are currently in violation of
pollution laws and to prevent future vio-
lations from occurring at other facilities.
Federal Compliance With
Pollution Control Standards
Memorandum From the President.
October 13, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu
tive Departments and Agencies
Today, I signed Executive Order No.
12088 which sets forth the policies which
are to govern compliance with environ-
mental standards by Federal facilities.
Federal agencies shall exercise leader-
ship in the attainment of the Nation's en-
vironmental goals. This Executive Order
makes the head of each executive agency
responsible for ensuring that Federal fa-
cilities are at all times designed, con-
structed, operated, and maintained in
compliance with all Federal, State and
local environmental requirements. Con-
sistent with existing law, there will be no
exemption from these requirements ex-
cept in the interests of National security or
in extraordinary cases where an exemp-
tion is otherwise in the paramount interest
of the United States.
The FY 1979 Budget which I sub-
mitted to the Congress provided for pol-
lution control equipment at Federal fa-
cilities that are not in compliance with
Federal environmental
environmental requirements.
This policy also will govern the prepara-
tion of subsequent budgets. I have asked
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, in consultation with the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, to monitor the use of funds
1769
