Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 3, 1978
Buffalo, New York
Remarks at the Greater Buffalo International
Airport. October 28, 1978
Governor Carey, Senator Moynihan,
Congressman LaFalce, Congressman
Nowak, National Democratic Chairman
John White, Chairman of Erie County,
Joe Crangle, Mayor Griffin, and my good
friends who gave me a strong support
when I was running for President and
have given me a warm welcome this morn-
ing in spite of the cold weather:
I'm glad to be back with you. Thank
you very much.
I know how difficult it can be to be an
incumbent President or Governor in these
days. I'm sure New Yorkers will know
what I mean when I told the political
Democratic rally in Maryland not long
ago that just since Camp David, Ameri-
cans have been waving at me with all five
fingers. [Laughter]
And I think it's the same way with
Hugh Carey, who came into office facing
tremendous problems for New York
State. You needed a man with courage,
who was not afraid to tell the truth, even
though sometimes it was not politically
popular. You needed a man who was
honest even when it hurt. You needed a
man who thought taxes were too high.
And for the first time in many, many years
since I can remember, in New York State
taxes are on the way down. Hugh Carey
has reduced income taxes $1.3 billion.
I think the most serious problem that I
saw in New York State when I cam-
paigned here in 1975, 1976, was the econ-
omy, jobs. Everywhere I went, people
would tell me, "My father-my uncle—
my son-my wife cannot get a job."
Since Hugh Carey has been your
Gover-
nor, the unemployment rate in New York
State and here in Erie County, as well,
has dropped 35 percent. It's still on the
way down, thanks to this man.
When I was Governor of Georgia, 25
percent of my time was spent with eco-
nomic development, bringing in new in-
dustry, new jobs, strengthening those that
were there. Hugh Carey has been very
successful in doing this. And the thing I
like about his administration is that he's
had a well-balanced emphasis between
New York City, which was in desperate
trouble and he's gotten it out of trou-
ble and upstate New York.
The community development program
that used to provide Buffalo, for instance,
with $8 million, will now provide you $24
million. Hugh Carey knows the Congress.
1883
