Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that you have decided to take your case
to the country in this way, to ask how
people feel about it.
When you were sailing out of New
London with the Navy, I don't know
whether you had much of a chance to
find out how Connecticut people act, but
I hope you did find out then, or since
then, that we do like to have questions
answered. And I'd like to pose one to
you which occurred to me after I read
your proposals on this matter; and that
is, in connection with wages and prices,
you've proposed a pretty self-monitoring
plan with regard to wages.
Every employer will be making sure
that wages are held down to that 7 per-
cent, compensation of all kinds held down
to that 7 percent. But there isn't that
much of an incentive or that much of a
monitoring process, as I can see it, for
prices.
The question is, why did you not use
the same kind of built-in control by using
the Federal income tax to either give an
incentive to management to hold prices
down, or to in effect "disreward" them, if
I can use that term, if they fail to hold the
line.
THE PRESIDENT. John, I think it's ob-
vious that the people of Connecticut have
spoken very clearly about tough govern-
ment budgeting and management, with
the results of the election yesterday.
Also, I think it's good to point out that
in the last 21, 22 months since I've been
in office, the people of your area have
benefited substantially because of our eco-
nomic policies. I think in January of '77,
when I became President, you had about
an 11-percent unemployment rate in the
city of Hartford, and that's been cut al-
most exactly in half, down to 5.6 percent.
In fact, in Greater Hartford, the unem-
ployment rate is less than 42 percent. But
inflation for the last 10 years has been
holding at about 62 percent average. The
3 years before I became President, as you
know, it averaged about 8 percent.
We tried to provide a very balanced
program and believe we succeeded. The
labor wage standard increase would be 7
percent, which is some reduction over
previous years' experience, and, of course,
we've asked business throughout the Na-
tion, employers who set prices, to hold
their own price increases 1/2 percent be-
low the average increase for the last 2
years, which works out, if everyone could
comply, to about a 53/4-percent increase.
So, the standards on prices are a little
bit more stringent than labor; I think well
balanced. We will be monitoring con-
stantly about 4 or 500 of the top businesses
in the country to make sure that they do
comply. We will use every legal means at
our command to induce them to comply-
the arousal of public interest, the award-
ing of contracts on Government purchases,
which consist, as you know, of enormous
billions of dollars each year, about $85
billion a year.
And of course, the income tax incentive
was designed to help labor by assuring any
employee group that if they do comply
with the 7-percent wage increase stand-
ard, that they will be guaranteed that their
real wages will not fall. If the inflation
rate goes above 7 percent, of course, there
will be an income tax reduction credit
for them.
So, I believe that in general it's a very
well-balanced program. I'm going to do
my share by holding down the budget,
by holding down the Federal work force,
by holding down Federal pay, by reducing
the deficit down to less than half what it
was when I ran for President, by reducing
unnecessary Federal regulations, and I in-
tend to be tough and persistent. And if I
can get the help from labor and business,
I can succeed as the leader of our country.
So, it's a well-balanced program-tight
constraints on business and labor, volun-
1968
