Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
gards to defense and energy. And I would
just like a statement from someone at the
end about this.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL.
Okay. Thank you very much.
CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Q. Mr. President, the question that I
have is directed mostly to Mrs. Peterson.
And I feel somewhat like David in the
lion's den, because I've heard from labor,
business, et cetera, and I'm espousing the
concerns of the consumers out there.
Mr. President, you've shown an inter-
est in the consumers in the recent legisla-
tion that was defeated. But I would hope
that that interest is going to continue. As
an attorney-and I represent the 10th
Congressional District of Pennsylvania-I
see what inflation is doing to the Ameri-
can family. I do a lot of domestic relations
work and see the problems that inflation
causes-alcoholism, the inability to pay
one's bills. And I suggest that it's the
consumers' ignorance as to how to deal in
the marketplace that is one of the great-
est problems facing the free enterprise
system.
Mr. President, you have at your dis-
posal the United States attorneys' offices
all over the U.S. And if the Congress of
the United States won't give you a con-
sumer advocate, I suggest the Attorney
General should put one in every U.S. at-
torney's office. Problems such as land
fraud, problems such as the automobile
used-car dealers, clocking odometers, they
go beyond the basis of one State to an-
other. We need this help in the market-
place desperately, Mr. President, because
I suggest if we can create an atmosphere
where our consumers know how to deal in
the marketplace, we can stretch that
shrinking dollar. And we can save many
families, and you can keep your commit-
ment to the American people that you've
been doing such a wonderful job with thus
far.
Thank you very much.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. Esth-
er, maybe you'll handle that at the end.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, I don't have a ques-
tion. I'm a delegate of Democrats Abroad.
And we represent 1.8 million Americans
outside the United States. One of the
things which has struck me about this
discussion has been the fact that nobody
has stressed how much the introduction of
your anti-inflation program meant to the
world outside the United States. Up to
that time, and up to Camp David, the rest
of the world didn't know where the
United States was going. And it was only
when Camp David took place, and when
the anti-inflation program was intro-
duced, that the rest of the world knew
that the United States and the Carter
administration was not going to take the
same route which has destroyed so many
countries around the world, where coun-
tries I travel in Africa, I travel in the
Middle East, and I travel all over Europe,
and I know countries where there's not
double-digit inflation, but there is triple-
digit inflation. And those are the coun-
tries which now are convinced that the
United States is going to be a strong coun-
try and it's going to live up to its leader-
ship obligations, and the rest of the free
world is now certain that we are going in
the right direction.
Thank you, Mr. President.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. I am Susan Garner Koenigsberg
from Miami, Florida, delegate for the
13th Congressional District. What I came
prepared to state, there is no time to state.
However, I will say this is a hard act to
follow.
2217
