Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
peace agreement between Israel and
Egypt. What now, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not giving
up on the 17th deadline.
Ms. WALTERS. Really?
THE PRESIDENT. The decision is pri-
marily in the hands now of the Israeli
Cabinet. We have worked out with Sadat
as approval by him of the treaty text, and
the remaining issues involved how rapidly
and under what circumstances the provi-
sions of the Camp David accords shall be
implemented.
One of the major issues is whether or
not a goal should be set, not a fixed, def-
inite requirement that the West Bank,
Gaza self-government should be estab-
lished by the end of 1979. I personally
don't see how this could be difficult for the
Israelis, since it's not mandatory, but just
a goal to be sought. But the decision now
is primarily in the hands of the Israelis.
Secretary Vance has had thorough discus-
sions with both Sadat and Begin and their
other government officials. We don't know
what will happen.
I consider the December 17th date to
be quite significant. But if we don't suc-
ceed in getting an agreement by then-
it's certainly a strong possibility-then we
will continue tenaciously to pursue the
peace prospects and to try to reach an
agreement between Israel and Egypt at a
later date.
Ms. WALTERS. How? Summit, maybe?
What?
THE PRESIDENT. That's always a pos-
sibility. But that would not be my pref-
erence. I would certainly have no objec-
tion, and would encourage at any time
President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin getting together themselves. But I
think for them to plan on coming over
here anytime in the future would prob-
ably be a mistake, because I've got other
pressing international problems. And
we've really put an extraordinary amount
of time and effort in the Mideast, and
I just cannot neglect other problems in
order to accomplish this goal.
MS. WALTERS. We've said that Secre-
tary Vance was coming back to put pres-
sure on the Israelis. Other reports said no,
it was urgent business. What's the urgent
business, if that's it?
THE PRESIDENT. We have got a broad
range of things that are now coming to a
head. We've got problems between Chile
and Argentina concerning territory down
there that could erupt into a conflict.
We're trying to reach a conclusion on the
Nicaraguan question.
I think that the SALT negotiations are
coming to a head. Cy will be going to
Europe to meet with Gromyko, on the
21st of December, perhaps to plan for a
summit meeting between myself and
President Brezhnev earlier next year. And
there are just such a broad gamut of
things that I need Secretary Vance back
here. And he and I agreed in a telephone
conversation that his work in the Mideast
was primarily completed.
The proposition that has been worked
out with Egypt is presented clearly to the
Israelis. And now it's up to the Israelis
to either accept it or reject it.
Ms. WALTERS. You talked of Presi-
dent Sadat being generous in accepting
some of the proposals. You didn't men-
tion Prime Minister Begin. This was last
night that you said this. Do you consider
Mr. Begin to be intransigent?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we don't know
what the Israeli response will be.
MS. WALTERS. I spoke with Israel this
morning, with some key members in For-
eign Minister Dayan's office, with his
spokesman. And without going through
each detail, what they are saying is that
they were willing to sign the original
agreement, but that President Sadat is
2253
