Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 30
budget is assessed that I will carry out my
responsibilities well.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about China. What is your timetable for
reaching full normalization of relations
with China, and have the recent events
that are now going on in China-have
those altered that policy? And do you
envision China as a potential military
at any time against the Soviet
ally
Union?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't have any
intention of selling any weapons to either
China or the Soviet Union. We are im-
proving our relationships with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China as time goes on,
even short of complete diplomatic nor-
malization. Our goal, however, is to
move toward normalization in accord-
ance with the Shanghai Communique
agreements. The attitude of China, the
domestic situation in China, has
changed, and we watch it with great
interest.
TAX REDUCTION BILL
we anticipate maintaining throughout
next year.
Our growth rate will be reduced some-
what, to maybe below 3 percent. I don't
think we'll have a recession. But we took
that into very careful account as we put
together our overall anti-inflation pro-
gram.
So, in balance, I decided to sign and to
put into effect the tax reduction bill. I
with that, we'll still be successful in ade-
think in spite of that, maybe compatibly
with that, we'll still be successful in ade-
quately fighting inflation.
STRATEGIC WEAPONS SYSTEMS; CIVIL
DEFENSE
Q. Mr. President, is it correct that you
have decided to go ahead with the M-X
mobile missile and the Trident II in the
next budget? And will you comment on
the suggestion that that decision, if you
take it, the decision on civil defense, is
actually a part of a plan to sort of pull the
fangs of the anti-SALT people, that it's
part of a SALT dance, rather than an
independent action?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's part
of a SALT dance. I have not decided yet
Q. Mr. President, the austerity budget on what types of new weapons systems, if
you're now working on is for spending
that begins October 1 of next year, as I
understand it. In view of that, and in
view of the inflationary pressure we have
today, would it have been more effective
to veto the tax bill, which would have
had an immediate impact on the infla-
tionary economy, rather than waiting
until next October?
THE PRESIDENT. No, in balance, it
would not have been good for our coun-
try. It might have had some tendency to
control inflation, but at the same time, I
think it would have added a tremendous
additional tax burden on our people and
restrained greatly the normal growth that
any, we will advocate in the 1980 fiscal
year budget for our strategic arms arsenal.
The press reports about a $2 billion
civil defense program have been com-
pletely erroneous, and I have never been
able to find where the origin of that story
might have derived. No proposal has even
been made to me for a civil defense pro-
gram of that magnitude.
We are considering the advisability of
pursuing some civil defense assessments,
including the fairly long-term evacuation
of some of our major cities if we should
think a nuclear war would be likely, which
is obviously not a very likely project in
itself, a proposal in itself.
2097
