Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
inflation rate for the preceding 3 years of
8 percent. It's a very intractable prob-
lem. It's not easily solved, but I announced
last week a strong anti-inflation program,
and as I had a philosophy during the
campaign, I did not intend to lose, I don't
intend to lose in the fight against infla-
tion if you'll help me, and I hope you will.
I'm a farmer. I come from a working
family. My family happens to have been
in this country 100 years before it was a
nation. We've lived in Georgia for more
than 200 years. No one in my family be-
fore me ever finished high school. I know
what it means to work for a living. I know
what it means to have a better chance in
life, and I want to be sure that the Gov-
ernment continues to give good services
to our people. But I deeply believe that
the best government is the one closest to
the people.
I think there are roles to play for the
Federal Government that can be en-
hanced, for we need a Federal Govern-
ment that the bureaucracy is a source of
pride and trust. When we inherited this
job, the civil service was 95 years old and
had not been reformed. It had deterio-
rated in quality. You'd have two people
sitting side by side, one dedicated and
competent, hard-working; another right
next door at the adjacent desk, incom-
petent, lazy, in the wrong job.
The Congress has now changed that.
We've got civil service reformed. Now we
can reward that good employee. We can
inspire the other one or maybe transfer
the other one or maybe discharge the
other one. We can let managers manage.
We'll have a better Government for you.
The budget is coming under control.
These signs of progress mean that we have
a competent government that's still com-
passionate.
Wendy Anderson, for instance, serves
on the Budget Committee. He's a junior
Senator, as you know, but he is so re-
spected by his peer group that he's been
given assignments commensurate with his
background, his experience here as Gov-
ernor and his own competence as a man.
I'm deeply dedicated to a strong de-
fense. Our Nation is the strongest nation
on Earth militarily. And as long as I'm
President, our Nation will always be num-
ber one in military strength, and you can
depend upon that.
It just happens that Wendy Anderson
is on the Armed Services Committee, and
he realizes that we don't just need a strong
defense for the safety of America. We cer-
tainly don't want a strong military to im-
pose our will on others. We want a strong
defense because we love peace. There has
not been a single American who has shed
blood in combat since I've been President,
and I hope I can complete my term as
your President with that record still
intact.
We are working every day with the
Soviet Union to have a good SALT agree-
ment, to remove the threat of nuclear
weapons from their destructive power
over the entire Earth. The Congress has
passed a nonproliferation bill that pre-
vents nations who don't have atomic ex-
plosives from ever having them in the fu-
ture.
And we've tried to set an example for
others. We've raised high a banner that
represents the spirit and the commitment
and the ideals of America, a banner that
says, "Human Rights." And as long as
I'm President and I have a strong Dem-
ocratic team to support me, we will be
the nation known throughout the world
as the people who believe in basic hu-
man rights here and in other nations as
well. And you can depend upon that as
well.
Let me close by saying this: You have
the right and, I hope, the duty to make a
very important decision for you and your
future on Tuesday night. Hubert Hum-
1953
