Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 13
ence in the White House in many other
fields. [Laughter] We're glad, as Republi-
cans, to have a role in government, as
small a group as we are [laughter]—and
we think that this reform will do a hell of
a lot better than the postal reform that Mo
referred to you. You were the father of
that. [Laughter]
This is a good bill. And, Mr. President,
you should know that Scotty Campbell
is one hell of a lobbyist, and you ought
to turn him loose on a few other troubles
that you have.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Abraham
Ribicoff.
SENATOR RIBICOFF. Mr. President, you
gave the country the leadership; Congress
gave you the cooperation to make this pos-
sible. I want to pay tribute to the entire
membership of the Governmental Affairs
Committee, and the cooperation from
Senator Percy, and the staffs, majority
and minority staffs of the Governmental
Affairs Committee, who worked so hard
and effectively.
I also want to pay tribute to Mo Udall,
who headed up the House conferees. I
have never worked with a group of con-
ferees so constructively and so effectively.
And the difficult parts of those bills to be
reconciled were made possible through
the great cooperation we had from the
House conferees.
THE PRESIDENT. I might point out that
an integral part of the entire reform effort
was a reorganization plan that was ap-
proved, of course, by the Senate commit-
tee and also by the House committee sep-
arate from Post Office and Civil Service.
And that was headed up by Chairman
Jack Brooks.
Jack, thank you.
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. Thank you.
Mr. Chairman, last night, or rather this
morning, at about quarter to one, we
passed your reorganization bill number 4,
you'll be pleased to know.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. I want to say
that for the record I did not vote-you
can look at the record-I didn't vote for
that lousy post office bill. I thought it was
rotten then. [Laughter] But this is a great
program, and I think that any President,
if he's going to manage the vast executive
branch, has got to have a civil service, a
personnel system that's responsive and ef-
fective and so you can manage it.
And I think that you proposed this and
Congress supported it. I think you now
have the tools to have a shot at managing
this vast bureaucracy in a way that'll make
it work for the people and not against
them.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Mr. Chairman.
Again, in the Senate it was a very su-
perb demonstration of bipartisan effort.
And I'd like to call on Senator Chuck
Percy to make a comment, who was very
helpful in every way.
SENATOR PERCY. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I think we know why Camp David was
a success, and we know why civil service
reform is a success and why you became
President. It's that determination and
stick-to-itiveness and setting a goal and
just never flinching from it, and we're
grateful for that leadership.
I was particularly gratified to work
once again with Senator Ribicoff as our
chairman. I think both of us had tremen-
dous admiration for Mo Udall, who really
waltzed us through that conference in
beautiful style. I've never had a better
feeling as we left a conference-almost
as good as when we went into it. [Laugh-
ter]
My colleague from Illinois, Ed Derwin-
ski, was just a tower of strength. And
1763
