Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
Veto of Bill Concerning
Government Ban of Tris
in Sleepwear
Memorandum of Disapproval of S. 1503.
November 8, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I am withholding my approval of S.
1503, a bill which would authorize Gov-
ernment indemnification, upon a judg-
ment by the U.S. Court of Claims, of
businesses which sustained losses as a re-
sult of the ban on the use of the chemical
Tris in children's sleepwear.
In 1971 and 1974 the Government
established strict fabric flammability
standards on children's sleepwear to pro-
tect children against burns. To meet these
flammability standards, the clothing in-
dustry treated fabric by using substantial
quantities of the flame-retardent chemical
Tris. In 1975, information became avail-
able that Tris was a carcinogenic risk to
humans. Some firms stopped using Tris
after this test information became avail-
able, but other firms did not.
On April 8, 1977, the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Commission ruled that chil-
dren's sleepwear containing Tris was
banned as a “hazardous substance" under
the Federal Hazardous Substances Act.
This led to the removal of Tris-treated
children's sleepwear from the market-
place. Both the imposition of flammability
standards and the subsequent ban on
Tris-treated fabrics have caused expendi-
tures and losses by industry.
The imposition of strict flammability
standards to protect the Nation's children
was fully justified. After it was discovered
that Tris was hazardous to health, the
removal of Tris-treated sleepwear from
the marketplace, again to protect the Na-
tion's children, was also fully justified.
S. 1503 would establish an unprece-
dented and unwise use of taxpayer's funds
to indemnify private companies for losses
incurred as a result of compliance with a
federal standard. The Government could
be placed in the position in the future of
having to pay industry each time new in-
formation arises which shows that a prod-
uct used to meet regulatory standards is
hazardous. This would be wrong. Pro-
ducers and retailers have a basic respon-
sibility for insuring the safety of the
consumer goods they market.
If this bill became law the potential
would exist for compensation of firms who
marketed Tris-treated material after they
knew, or should have known, that such
products constituted a hazard to the
health of children. Extensive, costly, and
quired to determine, in each instance, the
time-consuming litigation would be re-
liability involved and the loss attributable
to the ban action in April 1977, without
regard to profits the claimants may have
earned on Tris-treated garments in earlier
years.
While it is most regrettable that losses
have resulted from the regulatory actions
taken to protect the safety and health of
the Nation's children, no basis exists to
require a potential Federal expenditure
of millions of dollars when the actions of
the Government were fully justified. Ac-
cordingly, I am compelled to withhold
my approval from this bill.
JIMMY CARTER
Veto of Bill Concerning
Government Ban of Tris
in Sleepwear
Letter to the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration. November 8, 1978
To Administrator Vernon Weaver
Today, I withheld my approval from
S. 1503, the TRIS Indemnification Bill,
because it would:
1977
