Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
been playing a new game at school. And
I said, “What is it?" She said, "Cops and
GSA." [Laughter] So, we are trying to
make government better. You can help by
doing the things I described.
NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Eli Bucan. I'm from Hopewell,
Beaver County here.
Most of the questions you seemed to
have answered extremely well. So, I had
one, but I think it was answered properly,
So, I have other ones here like, why isn't
the present government moving faster in
getting a good, sound energy program
in
the United States, and why isn't that new
fuel called gasocol, I think it's called-
THE PRESIDENT. Gasohol.
Q.
why isn't it being pushed?
THE PRESIDENT. Gasohol. I think it
will be in the future. As you know we've
gone for several generations in our great
country without any sort of a national
energy policy that people could under-
stand that would make production in our
country be equal to our needs and to cut
down on the enormous drain in buying
overseas oil.
In the last 6 years we've had an 800-
percent increase in oil imports, from about
$4.7 billion, this year $45 billion. And
many people don't even know that in
1978, of all the oil we use in our country,
about half of it we have to buy overseas.
My guess is that before this Congress
adjourns in October that we will have a
major step taken by the Congress toward
a comprehensive energy bill. I believe that
we've got pretty good support in Pennsyl-
vania, at least in the Congressmen among
those who are Democrats. I think you
could help me by inducing both your U.S.
Senators to support in the Senate next
Tuesday the passage of a natural gas bill,
which is a key to the rest of the energy
package this year.
So, I think that after this year we'll
have the major portion of a new energy
policy that'll help a great deal. We've got
some serious problems ahead of us if we
don't.
The value of the dollar is going down,
inflation rates caused to go up by exces-
sive imports that cost Americans jobs. We
are dependent on foreign supplies when
we ought to be able to produce our own
energy sources and so forth.
On gasohol, this is a kind of new re-
search and development effort that I
think will pay good dividends. In some
countries, like Brazil, who don't have any
appreciable fuel of their own, about 10
percent of their gasoline now comes from
growing plants, either corn or some tuber-
ous plants; well, you have a tuber grow-
ing underneath the ground, like a potato.
And I think in the future we'll see a sub-
stantial increase in gasohol in our own
country. Right now it's a little too expen-
sive. It can't compete with other forms of
gasoline. But I think you'll see that grow
in the future.
And we want to shift very heavily to-
ward other sources, too. Coal is not being
adequately utilized. Solar energy would be
another one.
So, with a strong research and develop-
ment program, a passage this year of a
natural gas bill and other bills, we'll have
solving the question that you've described.
a major step toward recognizing and re-
Thank you very much.
I'm sorry, I don't have time for another
question. We've been here now for 59
minutes, and I've only got 1 minute to
close.
Let me say that I've been really im-
pressed with the quality of your questions.
Some of them have been very difficult for
1616
