Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
his service there and, I understand, had
other bank accounts as well. I've also
heard that he's writing a book, or more
than one book, and will receive in the
future substantial advanced payments for
that authorship.
The payments that we have made to
him, the CIA, I'm not familiar with com-
pletely-I'm sure that Admiral Turner
would be glad to answer that question.
But they don't equal what the woman
said was paid for her services or favors.
RESIGNATION OF PAUL WARNKE; SALT
NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, does Mr. Warnke's
resignation have anything to do with the
idea that perhaps he's not the right man
to try to sell this treaty to the Senate?
And second, to the SALT treaty, can you
say today that you will submit a SALT
agreement to the Senate for ratification,
or are you still holding out the possibility
that you might just do it in an executive
capacity?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Warnke came to
help us with the SALT negotiations as
Director of the ACDA organization with
the understanding that he would only
stay for a limited period of time.
At that time, last year, we thought
that we would have a SALT agreement in
1977. Several months ago he told me that
for personal reasons he would still like to
step down. Quite early this past summer
I induced him to stay on. He will be the
head of the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency until after Secretary Vance's
upcoming trip to Moscow, after which
he will step down. I wish he would stay
on. He's a very good man, and he will
be available to testify to the Congress
even after he returns to private life.
I have not yet decided how to submit
the agreement or the treaty to the Con-
gress. I think it would depend upon when
it was concluded, but my preference
would be to submit it as a treaty.
Q. But you don't rule out the other,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is to
submit it as a treaty.
RHODESIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, will you see Ian
Smith now that he's in the United States?
And there's a second part to that question.
Are you aware of any agreement Henry
Kissinger made with Smith, such that
the United States would give Rhodesia
full diplomatic recognition and an end to
sanctions in return for a trend toward
majority rule?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
that executive agreement. I do not intend
to see Mr. Smith. He's had a meeting with
the Members of the Congress who invited
him over and also had, I think, a 2-hour
meeting with Secretary Vance. There's no
reason for me to meet with him.
I think that the essence of it is, what
we're trying to do is to end the bloodshed
in Rhodesia. We've not caused the blood-
shed. We've not caused the war. But we
have put forward publicly, without any
secrecy about it, along with the British,
to the frontline Presidents, to the patriotic
front, to the Smith regime, our proposals
that there be all-parties conferences
where people that are in dispute can get
together and talk and try to work out a
means by which free and democratic
elections can be held in Rhodesia, so that
anyone who is qualified can run for office
and let the people of Rhodesia decide
what kind of government they want.
This is a proposal that Mr. Smith and
his regime have not been willing to accept.
But this is what we propose. If the parties
in dispute prefer a different proposal and
agree upon it, we would have no objection
to that.
1747
