Aug. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Today's decision by the House is a cru-
cial step toward strengthening the vital
southern flank of NATO. It will soon
make possible the reopening of our mili-
tary installations in Turkey. And it brings
all the parties concerned closer to the
goals of peace and security in the Eastern
Mediterranean.
National Science Board
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. August 2, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
the Tenth Annual Report of the National
Science Board, entitled Basic Research in
the Mission Agencies: Agency Perspec-
tives on the Conduct and Support of
Basic Research. This report is part of a
continuing series in the Board's examina-
tion of key aspects of the status of Amer-
ican science.
It is now generally accepted that sci-
ence and technology contribute in signifi-
cant ways to our international trade
balance, to productivity and economic
growth, and to the solution of many of
our social challenges. Perhaps less widely
perceived is the fact that basic research
is the foundation upon which many
of our
Nation's technological achievements have
been built.
This report provides detailed evidence
that basic research supported by Federal
agencies not only contributes to America's
scientific and technological advances, but
also plays an active role in helping the
Government meet our Nation's needs.
Since taking office, I have encouraged
the agencies to identify current or poten-
tial problems facing the Federal Govern-
ment, in which basic or long-term
research could help these agencies meet
their responsibilities or provide a better
basis for decision-making. As a result of
this review process, my fiscal year 1979
budget proposed increased levels of fund-
ing for basic research-support that I
believe is essential for the discoveries and
technological innovations fundamental
to both our economic well-being and our
national security. The National Science
Board's report illustrates well the relation-
ship between basic and applied research,
and I believe that the report will be useful
to the Congress in completing its work
on the R&D proposals before it.
In addition to addressing these funda-
mental issues the report should be help-
ful to the Congress and others concerned
with setting priorities for future federally
supported research and development, and
in making our spending in this area more
effective.
The White House,
August 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Basic Research
in the Mission Agencies: Agency Perspectives
on the Conduct and Support of Basic Re-
search-National Science Board 1978" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 405 pages).
Assistant to the President
for Public Liaison
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Margaret Costanza. August 2, 1978
To Midge Costanza
It is with regret that I accept your res-
ignation as my Assistant, effective Sep-
tember 1, 1978.
Your work in my Administration has
been invaluable, and your achievements
have benefitted me as President and the
people of our Nation. I am grateful for
your efforts and for your friendship.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
1358
