Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 12
creasing trade with both those countries,
compared to last year or several years ago.
If we, in the future, have normal rela-
tionships with China, diplomatic relation-
ships, this would open up increased
opportunities for trade with those people.
In this present time, short of diplomatic
relations, we still have major trade mis-
sions going to China, Chinese trade mis-
sions coming to our country. And I think
that this is bearing good results.
We have one more point, and that is
security restraints. If there is a sale of high
technology items to the Soviet Union, or
the People's Republic of China, proposed,
then not only do the Commerce Depart-
ment and the State Department and the
National Security Council assess this, but
I refer it to the Defense Department as
well, to be sure that we are not deliber-
ately or inadvertently giving to those
countries a means by which their military
capabilities would be greatly escalated.
This would be contrary to the existing
law.
But within the bounds of those re-
straints, we are attempting to improve our
relationships with the People's Republic
of China and with the Soviet Union. And
in the process, as part of a stream of in-
creased interrelationships, improved re-
lationships, enhanced trade.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, to follow up the
earlier question on the Middle East, you
said last week that if Prime Minister Begin
and President Sadat had been able to
negotiate together on some of these ques-
tions over the past few weeks, that there
would not have been some of the problems
that have arisen. My question is, if all else
fails, would you consider calling the two
leaders back to Camp David or some other
place to negotiate directly with you to
resolve this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
I don't have any present plans to do that.
If all else failed and I felt that we could
get together again, I would not hesitate to
do so. But I don't envision that taking
place.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up
on the question raised by Mr. Schieffer
[Bob Schieffer, CBS News] and Mr.
Hurd.ยน Do you sense, Mr. President, that
there is a widening schism in the Demo-
cratic Party between yourself and Senator
Kennedy, who emphasized in Memphis
the need for finishing the great agenda of
the Democratic Party, as he put it? And
do you have any plans to try to conciliate
your differences with him or with the
labor leaders, who have generally opposed
your economic policies?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I don't
consider there is a schism, a growing
schism in the Democratic Party at all. And
as a general principle, and almost entirely,
Senator Kennedy and I communicate
well; we have a good relationship. We
espouse the same ultimate goals. We have
some differences, which are expected, on
exactly how to achieve those goals.
I have a unique perspective in this
country as President. I have to look at a
much broader range of issues than does
Senator Kennedy. He is extremely inter-
ested, for instance, in the comprehensive
health program, having devoted several
years of his legislative life to that position.
Also, I think it's accurate to say that
Senator Kennedy represents a family
within the Democratic Party which is
revered because of his two brothers and
the contribution of his family to our party.
There's a special aura of appreciation to
him that's personified because of the posi-
tion of his family in our Nation and in our
party. This makes him a spokesman, not
only in his own right but also over a much
ยน The reporter meant to say Ted Knap of the
Scripps-Howard News Service.
2225
