Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
don't want to put a constraint on Ameri-
can farmers about what you can produce.
I want to get the Government's nose
out of the farmers' business rather than
stick it deeper into the farmers' business.
And I think this is a very good approach
that the Congress has done.
Jim Cramer was in the White House,
I think last Valentine's Day, represent-
ing the American farm movement, to add
his voice to the counsel and advice, along
with many others, on what we ought to
do to improve American markets. This is
one of the things that has resulted from
his visit there. And I want to express my
appreciation to him personally and to all
of you who have helped me.
This is the second bill that I've ever
signed outside Washington. The other one
was when I went to New York to sign
a bill to try to keep New York out of
bankruptcy. [Laughter] But this is not de-
signed to keep American farmers out of
bankruptcy, because you're no longer on
the verge of bankruptcy. But this is to
make your lives more profitable in the
future.
And it's a great pleasure for me as Presi-
dent of the United States to come to
Wichita, Kansas, to sign into law a bill
that will give us a greatly enhanced op-
portunity in the future to sell the superb
products that you produce so well in your
great State.
Thank you very
you very much.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Well, we've got a new law.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:21 p.m. in
Meeting Room 201 at the Century II Conven-
tion Center. Jim Cramer is the Kansas delegate
to the American Agriculture Movement.
As enacted, S. 3447, the Agricultural Trade
Act of 1978, is Public Law 95-501, approved
October 21.
Wichita, Kansas
Remarks at a Reception for Bill Roy and John
Carlin. October 21, 1978
Since I couldn't get anybody to intro-
duce me, I decided to introduce myself.
[Laughter] I'm Amy's father and Billy's
brother [laughter] Rosalynn's husband
and Lillian's son. [Laughter]
I'm not going to make another speech,
because you've already heard me tell you
what I think our party stands for and the
great qualities of Bill Roy and John Carlin
and your great Congressman, Dan Glick-
man. And I know that you agree with
me.
What I would like to do is to emphasize
to you the last thing I said in my talk. It
is never an easy thing for a Democrat to
be elected in Kansas. And I think we have
a history of political elections to prove
that what I've said is true. Things are
looking good for the Democrats all around
the country. But it's because we've been
underdogs. It's because we have worked
harder. It's because we've recognized that
we were not and will not be as well
financed, and it's because we had fervent,
committed, enthusiastic, sacrificial sup-
porters to give us political strength when
we couldn't buy it.
And I know that all of you have al-
ready contributed to the campaigns of
those with me on the stage. But you
haven't given as much as you can, and
you haven't given as much as you ought
to.
There is no greater investment that you
could possibly make than to have a better
government—a State government and a
Federal Government. And I hope that
every one of you will consider how you
can even sacrifice to make the political
campaigns of these good men more
successful.
Some of you may have already given a
1820
