Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
to point out the violations when they oc-
cur. And we intend to continue to do so.
MR. BURNET. That is all you intend to
do?
The President. Well, there are other
actions that are being considered, but of
course, we have no mechanism by which
we can interfere in the internal affairs of
the Soviet Union, nor determine the out-
come of the trial, nor determine the pun-
ishment, if any, which is allotted to Mr.
Shcharanskiy. But we'll continue through
every legitimate means to let the Soviets
know of our displeasure and also to work
toward the minimization of any punish-
ment meted out to him.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
JACQUES SEGUI [TV2, France]. Mr.
President, let me talk about another chal-
lenge from France and Germany you have
to face in Bonn at the economic summit.
Does it bother you that certain European
countries are actively asserting independ-
ence in economic policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have always
favored in the United States, certainly in
my own administration, a strong Europe,
strong alliances there, politically and eco-
nomically. And of course, we are partici-
pants in the military alliance to protect
the freedom of Europe.
We have not studied the recent agree-
ment that apparently is being worked
upon by the European nations who have
been part of the so-called Snake, now pos-
sibly to include in the future other nations
involving France, Italy, and Great Britain.
I noticed in the news media that Italy and
Great Britain have expressed some con-
cern about it. Until we have an analysis
made of the details of this proposal, I
would not want to comment about its ef-
fect on our country. I don't anticipate that
there would be any obvious effort to cause
a decrease in the value of the dollar nor
to work an adverse trade barrier against
American goods. If these things should oc-
cur inadvertently, of course, then we
would deplore it privately and maybe pub-
licly, but I don't expect this to happen.
So, the strengthening of the Economic
Community in Europe is something that
we do endorse.
MR. SEGUI. And political, too?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously politically,
too, yes.
U.S. ENERGY POLICY
SERGIO TELMON [RAI, Italy]. Mr.
President, it is widely expected that the
Europeans and the Japanese in Bonn
will ask or suggest a reduction in the
consumption of energy in the United
States. Should the Congress fail to move
on your package, what do you propose to
do?
THE PRESIDENT. We discussed this
subject, as you know, at the London Eco-
nomic Summit, I think 14 months ago.
Each one of the nations made some com-
mitment toward goals which we would try
to achieve. Our goal, as expressed, was to
reduce the level of imports of oil. We've
already been successful in that. The rate
of importing oil in our country has
dropped almost a million barrels a day.
We proposed to the Congress last April a
five-part energy plan. The conference
committees in the Congress have now ap-
proved four of those five parts, which
would encompass an additional reduction
in oil imports for our country of about
2.3 million dollars (barrels a day).ยน
So, we're making every effort that we
can to carry out a proposal that for the
first time would give our Nation a com-
prehensive and understandable energy
policy and reduce import levels. We're
trying to increase production in our own
Nation. We're trying to shift to more plen-
tiful supplies of fuel, like coal, solar
energy in some instances, nuclear power.
And we're also trying to increase the price
ยน Printed in the transcript.
1253
