July 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Veto of the Sikes Act
Amendments of 1978
Message to the House of Representatives
Returning H.R. 10882 Without Approval.
July 10, 1978
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval
H.R. 10882, the "Sikes Act Amendments
of 1978.".
The Sikes Act authorizes Federal-State
cooperative programs for fish and wild-
life conservation and public outdoor
recreation on military reservations, Na-
tional Forests, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration sites, and certain
Energy and Interior Department lands.
It is intended to foster cooperation be-
tween the States and Federal land man-
agement agencies. H.R. 10882 would ex-
tend and increase appropriation author-
izations under the Act through 1981.
I am strongly committed to the wise
management and conservation of fish and
wildlife on public lands; I have recom-
mended appropriations of approximately
$35 million for fish and wildlife manage-
ment on public lands subject to the Sikes
Act. This total includes nearly $14.4 mil-
lion for Federal/State cooperative pro-
grams of the type authorized by that Act,
programs I believe are valuable and im-
portant.
However, these amendments are ob-
jectionable in two respects. First, the bill
would more than double the current ap-
propriation authorizations for Sikes Act
programs from $23.5 million in 1978 to
$51 million in 1979, and $61 million in
1980 and 1981. These funds would be in
addition to authorizations under other,
more general, land management pro-
grams which are now used for carrying
out most Sikes Act activities. I insist on
adequate attention to the management of
fish and wildlife resources on public
lands, but the appropriations for these
programs must be determined in the con-
text of an effective and efficient manage-
ment program encompassing all public
land resources. These amendments pro-
vide unneeded authorization levels for
Sikes Act programs.
Second, and more importantly, I ob-
ject to the requirement in H.R. 10882
that directs the Secretaries of the Inte-
rior, Agriculture, and Defense to report
to congressional authorizing committees
whenever the President's budget request
for Sikes Act activities is less than the
amount authorized, and requires them to
state specifically why the higher amount
was not requested. This requirement is
designed to bring pressure on the Admin-
istration to seek separate additional funds
for Sikes Act programs and invites agen-
cies to undercut the President's annual
budget he has presented to the Congress.
This is an unacceptable intrusion on the
President's obligations and authority as
Chief Executive. This approach would
limit the President's ability to make his
annual budget recommendations a posi-
tive, comprehensive, and balanced state-
ment of the Administration's policies and
budget priorities.
Disapproval of H.R. 10882 will not af-
fect planned Federal expenditures for
fish and wildlife management on public
lands for 1979 which may be carried out
under other more general land manage-
ment authorities. This Administration
will continue to move vigorously ahead
in cooperation with the States to imple-
ment programs for the conservation and
enhancement of fish and wildlife on pub-
lic lands.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 10, 1978.
NOTE: The House of Representatives recon-
sidered H.R. 10882 on July 11, and the bill
was referred to committee.
1250
