Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
based just on military might but on the
strength of convictions, on the strength of
the quality of our government-solving an
age-old problem about which I spoke
often to young people during the cam-
paign: Liberty-on the one hand, to do
what you choose, to be an individual, to
stand on your own feet, to make your own
decisions, to shape your own life; and on
the other, equality of opportunity some-
times in conflict one with another, be-
cause we might say if we are superior and
have a superior position in life, why
should not we enjoy the benefits of it?
Why should we grant equality to someone
not so competent, not so rich, not so pow-
erful, not so influential as we? But our
Nation's moved a long way since 200 years
ago, when it was founded on freedom and
equality, to correlate the innate conflict
between these two ideals.
And ours ought to be a nation, and you
ought to have a life, dedicated to peace.
Diversity can be shaped into a common
purpose. But we have to understand the
ideas involved in the historic life of our
Nation. We have to express clearly the
underlying ideas in the historic life of
our Nation. And then we have to imple-
ment progress based on the innate ideas
in the historic life of our Nation.
Your leadership, my leadership as
President even, must be shared. In Gov-
ernment, I have to share responsibility
with the Congress, with the courts, State
and local officials. And so do you. But the
fount of power in our country rests in an
informed public-an informed public-
a public that's aware of the alternatives
that we have available to us, to explore
those alternatives through open debate,
through democratic processes, through
through
freedom of speech, and then shape com-
mon goals that are worthy of a great na-
tion like our own.
All of you are leaders; young people
are potential leaders, but leaders toward
what? Toward hatred? Toward division?
Toward prejudice? Toward a defiance
of the law? Toward a tearing of the fabric
of the society that sustains us? Toward
the destruction of one's body with drugs,
alcohol? Obviously, for you, no, because
this is completely contrary to what the
FFA stands for. But knowing this and
being blessed with your present leadership
capability, where others look to you with
that blue jacket on and say, "There is a
member of the Future Farmers of Amer-
ica, what is she or he like?”
There's a great opportunity for you to
repair the damage that has been done
through inadvertence or laziness or with-
drawal from among your own circle of
friends, to raise high the banner of ideal-
ism and commitment and truth and hon-
esty and compassion and love and compe-
tence, human rights that epitomizes our
Nation.
Those are the things that you can do.
So, whether one is the secretary of a local
FFA Chapter, which I was, or the Presi-
dent of the greatest nation on Earth, it's
our responsibility together as partners, as
common leaders, to bring out the best in
the people who observe us and to make
even greater the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Municipal Auditorium Arena. In his opening
remarks, he referred to J. Ken Johnson, na-
tional president of the Future Farmers of
America.
Inspector General Act of 1978
Memorandum From the President.
November 8, 1978
Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Devel-
1998
