Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Great Lakes Fishery
Commission
Appointment of Frank R. Lockard as a
Comissioner of the U.S. Section.
November 9, 1978
The President today appointed Frank
R. Lockard, 39, of Waverly, Ind., as a
Commissioner of the United States Sec-
tion of the Great Lakes Fishery Commis-
sion, to succeed Lester P. Voigt, resigned.
Lockard has been the director of the
division of fish and wildlife, Indiana De-
partment of Conservation, since 1973.
Lockard was born in St. Francis,
Kans., and graduated from Colorado
State University with a B.S. degree in
1961.
He served in the U.S. Army from 1961
to 1963 and in the Army Reserve from
1963 to 1967. He was previously the chief
of fisheries and a fish management su-
pervisor in Indiana before becoming the
director of the division of fish and wild-
life. He has been a member of several
wildlife societies and is presently the pres-
ident of the Midwestern Association of
Fish and Wildlife Commissioners.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
NOVEMBER 9, 1978
Held in Kansas City, Missouri
THE PRESIDENT. I'm glad to be in Kansas
City, and I would like to call on Mr. Scott
Feldman [KNBC-TV, Kansas City] for
the first question.
FARM SET-ASIDE PROGRAMS
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. It's been
suggested that American farmers would
be immensely helped if the Government
were to drop its set-aside programs and
urge farmers to produce simply every-
thing they could, while at the same time
the Government would push agricultural
exports even harder.
My question to you, sir, is would you
consider dropping the farm set-aside pro-
gram, and how far will your adminis-
tration go in demanding in world trade
talks that the United States not open its
market any wider to foreign goods unless
those countries let in more American
farm goods?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Feld-
man.
I think it's highly likely that we will
have set-asides. On a nationwide basis,
we have had very good crop in corn, this
year in particular, averaging for the first
time over 100 bushels per acre.
The policy of our own Government,
my administration, has been to try to in-
crease farm income, and we've increased
farm income about 25 percent.
We've also, every year, set records on
farm exports. We have gotten recent in-
formation that the worldwide feed grain
stocks are fairly high, but we anticipate
very large exports of farm products this
coming year.
I would say a moderate set-aside pro-
gram, continued storage of farm products
under the farmer's control, not so that the
middle grain dealers can make the ex-
traordinary profits as they have in the
past, no embargoes on the shipment of
farm products in the future, as they have
been under previous administrations—
this combination, I think, is the best to
pursue.
I don't believe that the erection of
tariffs or trade barriers would help us at
all in the agricultural economy, because
we export so many more agricultural
products that we import. But we have re-
cently signed a bill-as a matter of fact,
in Kansas-passed by the Congress, that
would improve greatly our opportunity to
1986
