Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
I've let Lloyd and others know about my
own concerns on details. I think it will
certainly be modified as it goes to the
House, and then to the conference com-
mittee.
We now have a level of beef imports
that I don't intend to increase this year.
But I think I ought to have some flexi-
bility there, because quite often there is
a legitimate need for increased beef im-
ports. The fact is, in the past this has
worked fairly well.
But I studied the Bentsen bill fairly
thoroughly when it was first passed
through the Senate and expressed some
concerns about it, through Bob Bergland,
to the House and to the conferees. I don't
remember the details of all the items that
I didn't like. But there's a good basic
philosophy behind it which has been, I
think, effectively used by most Presidents.
But I think that the President needs flexi-
bility in controlling beef imports.
AGRICULTURE LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, Charlie Rankin from
the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas.
We've been apprised this morning of
the situation concerning your veto of
water projects. Have you had a chance
to look at the agricultural appropriations
bill and contemplate vetoing any of the
porkbarreling projects in there, trying to
work out something? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. From what I know
about the agriculture bill, it's reasonably
acceptable. The bill has not gotten to my
desk. My staff has not thoroughly assessed
it, but my first hearing about it is favor-
able.
AMERICAN FARMING
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Crowner
from Kentucky. What is your opinion now
of the mood of the American farmer—
with a big production in the Government
program that we had for set-asides, ap-
parently did not take too well advantage
of.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that will prob-
ably be determined more accurately on
November 7, when you see the results of
the campaigns.
Compared to a year ago, the life of the
American farm family and also, I think,
the attitude of the American farm family
has improved dramatically. I hear this in
my own travels through the farm regions,
from my own home area, which suffered
badly last year. And the statistics prove
that the farmers should basically be
satisfied.
I think the increase-in addition to
what I've already described on exports
and net farm income-you have an in-
creased right of farm families to control
their own basic marketing procedures,
with a dramatic growth in on-farm stor-
age. And we are also trying to set up ex-
port offices in different key regions of the
world, which will help. I think this com-
bination will let the farmers have a much
more aggressive sales policy overseas.
We are now getting some orders for
grain from countries that didn't formerly
trade with us. The People's Republic of
China is one, and there's a large possible
market there. Bob Strauss is trying to pro-
tect the American farmer, too, in his nego-
tiations on trade agreements. I think in
general the attitude is good now.
LOCK AND DAM PROJECT IN ILLINOIS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Chuck
Lilligren from Minneapolis. If there were
proper user fees along with it, would you
approve of new construction of Lock and
Dam 26 in Alton, Illinois?
THE PRESIDENT. This has been a mat-
ter of great debate. My inclination is to
approve it, provided the water use fees
are compatible with what guidelines I laid
1673
