Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
them. But they were eager to reach for
peace. There was a change in the Middle
East in the attitude of people, and I be-
lieve that we'll make rapid progress now
in bringing a peace treaty between Israel
and Egypt.
President Sadat had a heart attack not
long ago; so did Prime Minister Begin.
And Sadat is very careful about his health.
He gets up early every morning and takes
a long walk, 4 kilometers, takes an hour.
He's a military man, a very brisk walk.
He comes back and takes calisthenics
about another half hour or so; he says
acrobatics, gymnastics. And then it's
about 10 o'clock in the morning before
he's ready to go to work.
But on several occasions I got up early
and did my homework with members of
my staff, and as President Sadat passed
my cabin, I went out and walked with
him. He's a man of great strength. One
morning he said something that I thought
you might be interested in. He said, “I be-
lieve that you have a sensitivity about our
problems in the Middle East because
you're from the South, because the South
is the only part of the United States and
southerners are the only people in the
United States that really know what it
means to suffer the tortures of the after-
math of a war in an occupation govern-
ment and deprivation for a while and a
struggle for the overcoming of prejudice
and hatred between one race and an-
other."
And he said, "I believe that has given
you not only a special insight but perhaps
an additional commitment to bring a
resolution between two people that have
long hated each other."
I've come here tonight still tired,
haven't had any time off yet. I had to
postpone this meeting from last week till
tonight. I've already been to New Jersey
this week, and go to two more States to-
morrow; just came from North Carolina.
But I've come here because I believe in
something. I believe in what our Nation
has been in the past, is becoming now,
and can be in the future. I believe in the
Southland. I believe in the people of
South Carolina, where my grandmama
came from. And I believe in the people of
Georgia. And I've seen just in my own
political lifetime, which has been very
brief, a repairing of ancient divisions.
The last President that came from the
South, I think, was in 1848—not because
we weren't good people, not because we
weren't competent politicians, not because
we weren't natural leaders, but because
there were divisions that couldn't be
healed; maybe because we didn't set our
sights high enough, because when one of
our southerners would run for President,
it would probably be on a racist ticket,
running against blacks or against the poor.
But we've overcome that now, and we are
taking the lead in the whole Nation in
binding our country back together. And
the rest of the country is proud of it, too.
And we have shown the way to pull
white and black people together again in a
spirit of harmony and friendship and mu-
tual trust and absolute equality. We
haven't repaired all the damage yet, be-
cause there are a lot of black children, as
there are a lot of white children, who are
very poor, who, because their parents
didn't have an adequate opportunity,
don't yet have one. And I think we see
that clearer perhaps than folks who live in
other parts of the country.
I'm a Democrat because our party has
always seen better than the other party
that the best investment of our natural
resources and our money was in people—
to give a child of ignorant parents
a chance for an education, to give a sick
person a chance for good health care, to
tear down barriers between people, to let
young married couples have a chance to
own a home, to have farmers who were
1585
