Oct. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The President. I have not been dis-
appointed with the Saudi Arabians' re-
sponse to the peace talks. We obviously
would like for everyone in the world to
endorse the Camp David agreements
without any caveats at all. But none of the
Saudi Arabian leaders, nor has King Hus-
sein, condemned the talks or rejected
them or closed the door for future support
and encouragement.
There are three elements that any Arab
leader cannot, in good conscience, en-
dorse or avoid. One is the matter of
sovereignty over the West Bank, Gaza
Strip. And of course, when I say "Arab
leaders," I'm including President Sadat.
The other one is the question of eastern
Jerusalem and the control of the Moslem
holy places by Moslems. And the third
one is the resolution of the Palestinian
question.
We always use the phrase "in all its
aspects." And I think that this concern
by the Saudis has been expressed in very
moderate terms. They have been compli-
mentary about the progress that might
evolve from the Camp David talks, and I
have not detected any attitude on their
part, even surreptitiously, to influence
others to condemn the talks or to work
against them.
I have just completed today my own
response to King Hussein's questions. And
after my response has gone through the
State Department and NSC, just so they
can see what I've decided, that response
will be submitted to King Hussein. And
I would guess that a copy of my answers
to his questions would go to the Saudi
Arabians. But we've not given up hope in
getting further participation.
I might add one other thing, that is,
that a conclusion of an Egyptian-Israeli
peace treaty, I think, will remove a lot
of the opposition to the Camp David
agreements that is presently predicated on
preventing such a peace treaty. I think
there's a lot of posturing going on by
people who do not want to see a treaty
between Israel and Egypt. Once that
treaty is concluded, I hope that some of
the opposition might dissipate. That's just
a hope; I can't predict it yet.
CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON
ASSASSINATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Bill Sumner, from
the St. Paul Pioneer Press.
THE PRESIDENT. Good to see you.
Q. I don't know if this has gone past
you or not, but were you able to follow any
of the assassination hearings, and if you
were, have you reached any sort of con-
clusion about them?
THE PRESIDENT. I've just followed
them through the press. I've not been in-
volved in them in any way. My own sense
is that they've been thoroughly investi-
gated, and I haven't detected in the last 3
or 4 years or more of investigations that
anyone's minds have been changed. There
are Americans who will always consider
the assassination of President Kennedy to
have been the result of an international
plot of some kind, originating in the Soviet
Union or in Cuba or somewhere else. And
I've never seen anything that contradicted
what the Warren report said in any sub-
stantive degree.
So, I think it's legitimate for the Con-
gress to continue to investigate the Ken-
nedy assassination. I'm not sure that
anyone's mind will be changed, and no
substantive, new evidence has been
brought to light.
I think there were some interesting
facts brought forward in the Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., assassination. But whether
there was any proof that the original con-
clusion that James Earl Ray was respon-
sible for it, I haven't detected that. So, I
would say that both assassinations have
been thoroughly investigated. It's a legiti-
mate function of Congress. I don't think
any material change has resulted in the
1780
