Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
continuing basis. I don't have any fear of
the Congress. I'm sure they don't have
any fear of me.
ADM. HYMAN G. RICKOVER
Q. Mr. President, in your book, "Why
Not the Best?", you described Admiral
Rickover as having had a great influence
on your life. I wonder if in light of the
veto, Mr. President, that you did discuss
your decision against a new nuclear car-
rier of the Nimitz class with Admiral
Rickover, and what that conversation
consisted of?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I did not discuss
it with him. When I had my first visit with
Admiral Rickover after becoming Presi-
dent, it was obvious to me then and now
that he's a very outspoken person. He pre-
sents his case to the Congress in an effec-
tive way, and he has a great influence on
them and on me.
He pointed out then that his inclination
was not to try to influence my decision on
individual items in the defense budget,
that he knew I had special problems as
President and a special perspective that
he could not have himself. And because
of our close relationship in the past-
which still exists, by the way he was
going to refrain from that particular
aspect of my responsibilities.
He does meet with me quite frequently,
and we have very frank discussions, but,
I think, more in general terms. And he's
not had any inclination to try to influence
me on this particular matter.
Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon
News Service].
ROBERT T. GRIFFIN AND GEN. SAMUEL S.
WALKER
Q. Sir, I want to point out to you to
see if you think this is not an injustice.
Robert Griffin of General Services Admin-
istration, the number two man, was fired
because of his conduct there. And then a
job was created for him by you, giving him
$50,000 a year. Then we have a four-star
general out in the Pentagon, Walton
Walker, with an exemplary record, and
he's having to get out of service and take
retirement, which will cost the taxpayers
a lot of money, simply because his posi-
tion at NATO was abolished. They gave
it to a Turkish general to ease the tension
over the arms embargo, and there's no
other four-star slot for Walton Walker, so
a good man has to get out of the service.
Don't you think that's an injustice?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try to respond as
best I can. [Laughter] In the first place,
I don't know of any item that's been re-
ported by the press in a more distorted
way than the one relating to Robert Grif-
fin. Griffin was not fired because he's in-
competent. He was not fired because there
was any allegation about his honesty or
integrity. He was moved from the General
Services Administration because he was
incompatible with the director of the
General Services Administration, Mr.
Solomon. He was not promoted. He was
transferred to another position with the
same salary exactly and the same pay
grade exactly. He is not a member of the
White House staff. He works for the Spe-
cial Trade Representative, which is not in
the White House at all.
There's been a general distortion of
what happened in that respect. I have no
apology to make for having moved him
out of GSA. I have no apology to make
for having put a good man with great
integrity and great knowledge in a pro-
ductive job.
The general to whom you refer was
recently promoted to four-star status. He
was assigned to Turkey to fill a position.
NATO leaders, not completely controlled
by us, decided that that position would be
filled by a non-American. It was no re-
1446
