Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that our Congress was able to deal with
so sensitive, complicated, challenging,
and, I would say, politically sacrificial an
issue. There are no political benefits to be
derived in solving the hundreds of dis-
putes which have now been resolved, but
I think a grateful nation will recognize in
historical terms the great achievement of
these leaders.
The key chairmen of the committees,
Harley Staggers, Al Ullman, Lud Ashley,
John Dingell in the House, Scoop Jack-
son, Russell Long in the Senate, have
made this success finally possible. And I
particularly want to thank the members of
the Cabinet, but especially Jim Schles-
inger and his fine group, who worked so
laboriously and with such tenacity and
with such confidence in the face of dis-
couragement to make this success possible.
There are many others outside the Fed-
eral Government, some assembled here
today. The Governors, the mayors, county
officials, business leaders, labor leaders,
private citizens, consumer groups, farmers,
all rallied here, sometimes in this room, to
meet with me personally, to meet at
breakfasts and luncheons and suppers and
banquets, to look at slide presentations, to
listen to the arguments, and then to use
their influence in hammering out the de-
tails of this legislation.
We also benefited greatly from the di-
rect and indirect aid given to us by our
foreign friends, and I would particularly
like to recognize the presence here today
of representatives of the Federal Republic
of Germany, of Great Britain, Italy, of
France, of the European Community,
Mexico, Canada, all of whom have come
today to recognize this achievement.
In closing, let me say that we've acquit-
ted ourselves well as a nation. While the
world watched, our people have shown
the will and the courage to face this com-
plex problem in a nation which was polit-
ically divided because we are one of the
world's greatest consumers of energy. We
are also one of the world's greatest pro-
ducers of all kinds of energy. We've been
a leader in technological development.
We've got long-range habits evolved that
are difficult to change. And we've been so
greatly blessed by God with apparently
unlimited energy sources that we've not
ever acquired the realization until recently
that conservation must be an important
part of our future lives.
And now with this legislation, we face
the continuing challenge of the future
with new tools and also with a new re-
solve. The greatness of our Nation has
been proven, and the future greatness of
our Nation is more assured than before
this legislation was passed.
I would like to thank all of you as I
sign the legislation now.
This one that I've just signed is the
public utility regulatory policies act; this
legislation is the Energy Tax Act of 1978.
The next is the National Energy Conser-
vation Policy Act-the men and women
around me know how much blood, sweat,
and tears went into every one of these.
[Laughter] This is the Powerplant and
Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978.
Dr. Schlesinger has just returned from
a visit to the People's Republic of China,
to Japan, and he is determined, as am I,
to administer this legislation well and,
through our administration, to prove the
wisdom of the Congress. And of course,
as problems evolve or as regulation be-
comes unnecessary, we will ask the Con-
gress in a sequential and predictable and
evolutionary way to modify the bills as
required.
This last one is the Natural Gas Policy
Act of 1978.
I would like to ask Tip O'Neill to say
a word.
SPEAKER O'NEILL. Mr. President, this
has to be the biggest crowd that I've
ever seen in the swearing in of a bill.
[Laughter]
1980
