Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
enterprise. Our future course will be de-
termined by our ability to sustain these
freedoms. We must meet our responsi-
bilities to others, to keep and enhance
these freedoms which we cherish. Any
abuses of our power and influence will
lead to international constraints and con-
trols and a lack of freedom.
Peace and freedom are our first prior-
ities. So long as we have a free play of
ideas and information, so long as we
maintain a climate that stimulates inven-
tion, innovation, competition, our pub-
lic and private institutions will have the
intellectual ferment and the technologi-
cal progress we need to produce social
and economic progress. I know the de-
liberations that follow here in Florida
will be stimulating and productive. And
I'm sure that you will leave Disney World
ready to launch a new assault on the
problems that command our future
attention.
I now declare the 26th Congress of the
International Chamber of Commerce
opened.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:35 p.m. in
front of the Magic Kingdom Castle at Walt
Disney World. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Ian McGregor, president of the In-
ternational Chamber of Commerce.
ment of the current difficulties in that
country.
Ambassador Bowdler expects to meet
in the next few days with the representa-
tives of the Dominican Republic and
Guatemala, the other two countries in the
mediation group, and will be going to
Nicaragua with them later this week to
commence the mediation process.
As the Secretary General of the OAS
has announced, the Government of Nica-
ragua as well as the broad opposition
front in Nicaragua have indicated their
acceptance of this conciliation effort.
Ambassador Bowdler is a career For-
eign Service officer who has served as Am-
bassador to El Salvador, Guatemala, and
South Africa. In addition, he was the
senior adviser for Latin American affairs
on the National Security Council staff
from 1965 to 1968. During the past 5
months, he has been serving in the De-
partment of State as Director of the Bu-
reau of Intelligence and Research. He
holds the rank of Career Minister.
In naming an experienced diplomat
and negotiator as U.S. Representative,
President Carter said he hoped that all
sides participating in the conversations
will work constructively to develop an en-
during, democratic solution.
International Mediation Group
for Nicaragua
Designation of William G. Bowdler as
U.S. Representative. October 2, 1978
President Carter has named Ambassa-
dor William G. Bowdler as the United
States Representative on the Interna-
tional Mediation Group, which will be
going to Nicaragua to provide good of-
fices in an effort to reach a peaceful settle-
Diplomatic Relations Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 7819 Into Law.
October 2, 1978
It is with pleasure and pride that I
have signed into law the Diplomatic Re-
lations Act.
I am pleased, because its enactment is a
reflection of what Congress can accom-
plish when skillful and dedicated leaders
of both Houses work closely together in a
common cause, with full cooperation and
participation from the executive branch—
1694
