Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 11
These actions are a clear indication
that the Federal Government is prepared
to do its part to reduce inflation. These
actions also call upon important sectors
of our economy to participate in the fight
against inflation. If we are to succeed in
that fight, no sector of our economy can
be exempt.
First, I have vetoed S. 2416, the Nurse
Training Amendments of 1978. These
amendments would authorize expendi-
tures far in excess of our budget request
and the needs of our nurse training pro-
grams. In addition, the amendments
would continue certain financial assist-
ance programs for undergraduate nurses
which are no longer necessary, in light
of the number of nurses in our country
and the expansion of educational assist-
ance programs for all undergraduates.
Second, I have vetoed H.R. 9937,
which would have terminated my author-
ity to negotiate reductions in United
States tariffs on textiles and textile prod-
ucts in the Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions. Acceptance of an exemption for the
textile industry would inevitably have led
to a request for similar treatment for
other industries. In order both to increase
our exports and reduce inflationary pres-
sures, we are attempting to negotiate mu-
tual reductions of tariffs and nontariff
barriers to trade around the world. By
completely exempting an entire industry
from these negotiations, we risk a series
of retaliatory actions by our trading part-
ners on those agricultural and industrial
products which have the greatest poten-
tial for increased U.S. exports. In addi-
tion, we would seriously threaten the suc-
cessful conclusion of the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations, which is vital to re-
lieving inflation pressures here and
abroad.
Third, I have vetoed H.R. 11545, the
Meat Import Act of 1978, which would
have deprived me and future Presidents
of a major anti-inflation tool. While I
favored the act's countercyclical formula
for determining the level of meat imports,
we clearly stated during congressional de-
liberations that I could not accept a bill
which limits my existing discretionary au-
thority to expand meat imports or which
limits meat imports to less than 1.3 bil-
lion pounds a year. This bill does not
meet either of those requirements: It
severely restricts a President's authority
to expand meat imports and permits only
1.2 billion pounds of meat to be imported
a year.
Fourth, the Department of Agricul-
ture, with my approval, will today an-
nounce a 1979 feed grain program that is
essentially the same as the one for this
year. The most recent crop reports show
that our country, as well as the rest of the
world, will have the greatest levels of feed
grain production and the largest total
supply in history. As a result, over the
next 12 months, the average price of feed
grain will be virtually the same as during
the past year. The balance of supply and
demand together with the program I
have approved will likely result in feed
grain prices late in 1979, and through
most of 1980, that are well within the tar-
gets of the anti-inflation program I re-
cently announced.
Under the 1979 program, producers
who participate will be offered a target
price of $2.20/bushel (up 10¢ from 1978)
if they set aside 10 percent of their land.
In addition these farmers will be eligible
for a diversion payment of 10¢/bushel
(down 10¢ from 1978) in return for di-
verting an additional 10 percent of their
acreage. Without any set-aside program
in 1979 these farmers would face a dis-
astrous reduction in their income. This
set-aside program is a carefully balanced
one, which is fair to producers, to consum-
ers, and to taxpayers.
2011
