Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a very long mutual border with Iran, and
a stable government there, no matter who
its leaders might be, is valuable to them.
This might change. If it becomes ob-
vious that the Shah is very vulnerable and
that other forces might come into power,
the Soviets might change their obvious
posture. But that's the observation that
we have now.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI NEGOTIATIONS
MR. MOYERS. What about the Middle
East, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have put hundreds
of hours in both preparation and direct
negotiation with the leaders in the Middle
East, particularly Egypt and Israel. And
Secretary Vance, even to the extent of
abandoning some of his other responsibili-
ties in foreign affairs, has tried to bring
about a successful conclusion of the peace
treaty negotiations. There, again, we
don't have any authority over anyone else.
We can't use pressure to make the
Israelis and Egyptians come to a peace-
ful settlement of the disputes that have
divided them.
The Camp David framework, which
was almost miraculous in its conclusion-
it seems more miraculous in retrospect
than it did at the time-is a sound basis
for peace between Egypt and Israel.
There's no doubt that both nations would
be highly benefited by peace.
MR. MOYERS. But yet the talks seem
to be at an impasse as of tonight.
THE PRESIDENT. The present disagree-
ments, compared to the benefits to be
derived, are relatively insignificant. The
benefits are so overwhelming, in compari-
son with the differences, that I hope that
the Egyptians and Israelis will move
toward peace.
MR. MOYERS. What's holding it up to-
night?
THE PRESIDENT. At Camp David it
was a framework, it was an outline that
had a lot of substance to it, but it required
negotiation of details and specifics. And
there is no way that you could have a
peace treaty with all of the ends tied
down and all of the detailed agreements
reached, the maps drawn, the lines de-
lineated, time schedules agreed, without
going far beyond what the Camp David
outline required.
And so, both sides have demanded
from the others additional assurances far
above and beyond what Camp David said
specifically. This is inherent in the proc-
ess. And I think in some cases, in many
cases, the two governments have reached
agreement fairly well.
Now I don't know what's going to hap-
pen. We hope that they will continue to
work in reaching agreement, to under-
stand one another, to balance the conse-
quences of failure against the benefits to
be derived from the success, and be flexi-
ble on both sides.
These are ancient arguments, histori-
cal distrust not easy to overcome. And
the frustrating part about it is that we
are involved in the negotiations, but we
can't make Israel accept the Egyptians'
demands, nor vice versa. We have to try
to tone down those demands and use our
influence. I don't know what will happen
about it. We just pray that agreements will
be reached.
MR. MOYERS. Are you asking both
sides to make further concessions?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes every day
and night. We ask both sides to please be
constructive, to please not freeze your po-
sition, to please to continue to negotiate,
to please yield on this proposal, to adopt
this compromise. These have been and
are our efforts on a constant basis.
It would be horrible, I think, if we failed
to reach a peaceful agreement between
Israel and Egypt-
MR. MOYERS. What would happen?
2020
