Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 18
I suppose one of the reasons that I was
so committed to seeing the passage of this
legislation is that I have a very articulate
champion of it in my own family in the
person of my mother, who is a 77-year-old
retired schoolteacher, who is a great sup-
porter of Jimmy Carter and John Brade-
mas. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. John, I'm afflicted by
the same situation in my own family.
[Laughter] I've got a one-woman lobby in
my home. [Laughter] That's a great op-
portunity for us both to have.
Rosalynn, would you like to comment?
MRS. CARTER. I'm just very pleased to
be here and very pleased for Jimmy to
have the opportunity to sign this bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
MRS. CARTER. I, as you know, meet with
Nelson every other week and stay in touch
with what's going on in the legislature
with the legislation as it goes through both
Houses, and it's just a great thrill for me
to be here this morning to see Jimmy sign
this bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Nelson, would you like to make a
comment?
MR. CRUIKSHANK. Well, thank you,
Mr. President.
The course of this bill through the
House and the Senate has been a little
like the perils of Pauline at several points.
But due to the efforts of John Brademas
and Senator Eagleton, they steered
through all the narrow passages, and it
came out a good bill that's going to do a
lot for the older people in this country.
And it's going to make the administration
of the program better and more effective.
And now the task, after you sign this, Mr.
President, will be for all of us to pitch in
and make it work. And we'll have to work
as hard as the congressional people have
worked on this as we get to working on
carrying out its provisions.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine. Well, I'll
sign it now so we can all go to work and
implement the opportunities that Con-
gress has given us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Nel-
son Cruikshank is Counsellor to the President
on Aging.
As enacted, H.R. 12255 is Public Law 95-
478, approved October 18.
Comprehensive Older Americans
Act Amendments of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 12255
Into Law. October 18, 1978
With great pleasure, I am signing into
law H.R. 12255, the Comprehensive
Older Americans Act Amendments of
1978. These amendments to the Older
Americans Act of 1965 are an important
step toward more effectively meeting the
special needs of our elderly citizens.
In a relatively short time, the Nation
has greatly expanded programs for older
Americans. We have dramatically re-
duced poverty among the elderly. We
have established a wide array of Federal,
State, local, and private services to help
maintain our older citizens in their own
homes, rather than institutions, and to
maximize their independence and dignity.
Now we are improving these services by
strengthening their coordination and
planning at all levels of government.
These amendments consolidate several
separate, overlapping titles of the Older
Americans Act into a single title covering
all services. They also improve planning
for these services to add efficiency at all
levels of government and eliminate count-
less hours of paperwork and administra-
tive burdens.
1793
