Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
principles of Andrew Jackson. But that
time is gone. And in the last few years,
we've seen a major shift back toward
Democrats by Tennessee, and that's going
to keep on the next 2 weeks.
Georgia, my own State, has always been
close to Tennessee. We share a lot with
you. When it snows in the north Georgia
mountains and the northwestern part of
our State, our State legislators have to
come through Tennessee to get home to
Atlanta to act as legislators. We've always
kept those borders open, except one time
when General Sherman crossed them on
the way from Tennessee through Atlanta.
But with that one exception, we bind our-
selves to you.
We'll keep those lines open. And I'm
proud to say that as Tennesseans, I con-
sider you my brother, and I'm glad to be
here as that, too.
In addition to Andrew Jackson, Ten-
nessee has provided some great Demo-
cratic statesmen: James K. Polk, Presi-
dent of the United States; Cordell Hull,
one of the greatest Secretaries of State our
country has ever seen; Estes Kefauver,
who ought to have been President of the
United States.
Kefauver was
a
man who went
throughout the country, standing on street
corners, standing in factory shift lines
early in the morning, shaking hands with
the American citizens and saying, "What
can I do for you if I'm the nominee of the
Democratic Party?"
I believe he entered 13 primaries. He
won 11 of them. He wasn't elected Presi-
dent, but he set a standard of campaign-
ing that I followed very closely when in
1976 I entered 30 primaries and won a
fairly good number of those [laughter]
which gave me an avenue to the White
House.
I want to recognize, too, a great United
States Senator who served at the same
time, Senator Albert Gore, who's been an
inspiration to a lot of southerners.
As you well know, when the South was
going through those difficult days of
changing from a segregated society to one
where we gave all American citizens equal
rights, regardless of color, Albert Gore,
Estes Kefauver set a standard for the
rest of us to follow. Their courage has
made the southland a better place to live
for blacks and whites. And I want to
thank them for what they meant to me
and to my own people.
I'll always remember the Democratic
convention when Frank Clement made an
inspiring address, and his son, Bob,2 has
brought the same kind of approach to
Democratic politics in this State. And he
supported the Democratic nominees as a
loyal Democrat should, in this same status
with the same tradition as his father,
Frank.
I can't come to Tennessee, especially
Nashville, without mentioning Dick Ful-
ton, a man who was in the Congress, who
could have stayed there as long as he
wanted to, who was doing a great job, but
felt that he could do a better job and be
closer to you if he came home as mayor of
Nashville. And I hate to miss him in
Washington, but I'm glad you've got him.
And I'm very thankful that he's doing
such a great job here as your mayor, and
I want to make sure that everybody knows
about that.
Some people said he came to Nashville
to be closer to country music. [Laughter]
But that's not true any more, because you
can't get any closer to country music that
originates in Nashville than you do in the
White House when I turn my record-
player on or my radio on—that's the kind
of music I really love.
2 Tennessee public service commissioner and
candidate for Governor during the State Demo-
cratic primary.
1858
