Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of the region, and we have profound
moral commitments which are deeply
rooted in our values as a people.
The strategic location of these countries
and the resources that they possess mean
that events in the Middle East directly
affect people everywhere. We and our
friends could not be indifferent if a hostile
power were to establish domination there.
In few areas of the world is there a greater
risk that a local conflict could spread
among other nations adjacent to them
and then, perhaps, erupt into a tragic con-
frontation between us super powers our-
selves.
Our people have come to understand
that unfamiliar names like Sinai, Aqaba,
Sharm el Sheikh, Ras en Naqb, Gaza, the
West Bank of Jordan, can have a direct
and immediate bearing on our own well-
being as a nation and our hope for a
peaceful world. That is why we in the
United States cannot afford to be idle
bystanders and why we have been full
partners in the search for peace and why
it is so vital to our Nation that these meet-
ings at Camp David have been a success.
Through the long years of conflict, four
main issues have divided the parties in-
volved. One is the nature of peace-
whether peace will simply mean that the
guns are silenced, that the bombs no
longer fall, that the tanks cease to roll, or
whether it will mean that the nations of
the Middle East can deal with each other
as neighbors and as equals and as friends,
with a full range of diplomatic and cul-
tural and economic and human relations
between them. That's been the basic ques-
tion. The Camp David agreement has
defined such relationships, I'm glad to
announce to you, between Israel and
Egypt.
The second main issue is providing for
the security of all parties involved, includ-
ing, of course, our friends, the Israelis, so
that none of them need fear attack or
military threats from one another. When
implemented, the Camp David agree-
ment, I'm glad to announce to you,
provide for such mutual security.
will
Third is the question of agreement on
secure and recognized boundaries, the
end of military occupation, and the grant-
ing of self-government or else the return
to other nations of territories which have
been occupied by Israel since the 1967
conflict. The Camp David agreement, I'm
glad to announce to you, provides for the
realization of all these goals.
And finally, there is the painful human
question of the fate of the Palestinians
who live or who have lived in these dis-
puted regions. The Camp David agree-
ment guarantees that the Palestinian peo-
ple may participate in the resolution of the
Palestinian problem in all its aspects, a
commitment that Israel has made in
writing and which is supported and ap-
preciated, I'm sure, by all the world.
Over the last 18 months, there has
been, of course, some progress on these
issues. Egypt and Israel came close to
agreeing about the first issue, the nature
of peace. They then saw that the second
and third issues, that is, withdrawal and
security, were intimately connected, close-
ly entwined. But fundamental divisions
still remained in other areas-about the
fate of the Palestinians, the future of the
West Bank and Gaza, and the future of
Israeli settlements in occupied Arab terri-
tories.
We all remember the hopes for peace
that were inspired by President Sadat's
initiative, that great and historic visit to
Jerusalem last November that thrilled the
world, and by the warm and genuine per-
sonal response of Prime Minister Begin
and the Israeli people, and by the mutual
promise between them, publicly made,
that there would be no more war. These
hopes were sustained when Prime Minis-
ter Begin reciprocated by visiting Ismailia
1534
