Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
Kenai Fjords National
Monument
Proclamation 4620. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Kenai Fjords National Monument bor-
ders the Gulf of Alaska and includes the
Harding Icefield and extensions of
mountain peaks out into the sea. The
area holds a significant opportunity for
geologic study of mountain building and
for scientific study of ecological varia-
tions from an icecap environment to a
marine shoreline environment.
The Harding Icefield, one of the Na-
tion's major icecaps, continues to carve
deep glacial valleys through the Kenai
Mountains. The mountains themselves
illustrate tectonic movement through
uplift and subsidence over geologic time.
Former alpine valleys are now fjords, and
former mountain peaks are now tips of
islands and vertical sea stacks.
Between the fjords, richly varied rain
forest habitats offer opportunities to
study life forms adaptable to the wet
coastal environment. On the land these
include mountain goat, black bear, otter,
ptarmigan, and bald eagle. The area is
extremely rich in sea bird life of interest
to ornithologists and in marine mammals
which come to feed in the fjords from
their hauling and resting places on near-
by islands. The recovery of the sea otter
population from almost total extermina-
tion to relatively natural populations in
this area is of continuing scientific in-
terest.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), author-
izes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic
landmarks, historic and prehistoric
structures, and other objects of historic or
scientific interest that are situated upon
the lands owned or controlled by the
Government of the United States to be
national monuments, and to reserve as
part thereof parcels of land, the limits
of which in all cases shall be confined
to the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim
that there are hereby set apart and
reserved as the Kenai Fjords National
Monument all lands, including sub-
merged lands, and waters owned or con-
trolled by the United States within the
boundaries of the area depicted as Kenai
Fjords National Monument on the map
numbered KEFJ-90,008 attached to and
forming a part of this Proclamation. The
area reserved consists of approximately
570,000 acres, and is the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
Lands, including submerged lands, and
waters within these boundaries not owned
by the United States shall be reserved
as a part of the monument upon acquisi-
tion of title thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location,
selection, sale or other disposition under
the public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water neces-
sary to the proper care and management
of those objects protected by this monu-
ment and for the proper administration
2129
