Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
There have been a lot of upsets in elec-
tions in our country, particularly the last
3 or 4 years. Issues are difficult, compli-
cated. Public opinion is volatile. People
have a distrust of candidates. They think
they promise too much or won't do a good
job when they're in office or might lose
touch with voters.
The outcome of the election next Tues-
day night will depend upon how many
supporters go to the polls and vote. This
is the first time that Abner Mikva has ever
been ahead in the polls, and, as you know,
he has won by the narrowest margin time
after time.
I came this afternoon from Flint, Mich-
igan. Two years ago, the night before the
election, I met Fritz Mondale—we had
been campaigning independently, but we
met together in Flint, Michigan, late at
night, both tired, to try to convince the
Michigan people to vote for us. And I re-
call then that in the primary in Michigan,
where 50 delegates' votes hung in the bal-
ance, I carried that State by less than
2,000 votes, not even 1 vote per precinct.
Last election, 2 years ago, Abner Mikva
was elected to the Congress by 201 votes,
much less than 1 vote per precinct. It is
important that those who have confidence
in him care enough about our Nation to
invest your own time and energy and ef-
fort in determining the outcome of the
election.
It would be a devastating blow and a
tragedy for the 10th District of Michi-
gan—of Illinois―[laughter]—for the
State of Illinois, and for the United States
if Abner Mikva is defeated. Will you work
hard with all your effort the next 4 days
to get other people to vote, to vote your-
self, to have elected the finest Congress-
man that we could possibly return to
Washington-Abner Mikva? Will you do
that? [Applause] Good deal.
I want to ask you a couple more ques-
tions. Take your coats off and roll up your
sleeves. Let's get to work. I want to ask
you a few questions. I want to ask you a
few questions, and I'll be very brief.
When I was elected President, there
were 10 million people in this country
who were looking for jobs, who couldn't
find a full-time job. Since then, with
Democratic leadership depending on you
for your support and advice and counsel
and criticism, we have had a net increase
of 62 million jobs in this country. We've
already cut the unemployment rate 25
percent. We've got a long way to go. Do
you care enough about your Nation to
work hard between now and November
7 to elect Congressman Mikva, so that he
can help me put America back to work?
[Applause] Good deal.
Jobs are important, but we also have
very serious problems that we have not
yet solved with inflation. I have spelled
out to the Congress, to the American peo-
ple, indeed, to the world, a commitment
on my part to make sure that we get infla-
tion under control.
I inherited a Federal deficit of over $66
billion. I'm now preparing next year's
budget, and I will have cut the deficit
more than 50 percent in 2 years.
We're trying to eliminate waste, cor-
ruption in government. We're trying to
add service and dedication and hard
work to the civil service system. We're
trying to open government so you'll know
what is going on.
The Congress has passed an excellent
ethics bill that will require everyone who
holds a high position in the executive
branch of Government, every Member
of Congress, every Federal judge to re-
veal net worth, the source of income, so
that it will remove all temptation to vio-
late the confidence that you place in them.
We're trying to make our government
efficient and effective. You can't educate
a child with waste and inefficiency. You
can't feed a hungry person with waste
1938
