Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
FARM SUPPORT FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mark Oppold, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
We are glad to have your wife in our city
today, visiting.
How concerned are you about captur-
ing the farm vote in 1980, and what meas-
ures will the administration take to bring
the vote to your side 2 years from now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope the Dem-
ocratic nominee for President gets the
farm vote in 1980, no matter who it might
be. [Laughter]
I would rather my administration and
the Democratic Congress be judged on its
record. Farmers are responsible people. I
think they make judgments by the degree
of freedom they have to produce crops;
the degree of control they have over their
own destiny; the amount of detectable in-
terest in their specific problems derived
from an administration, including the
Congress, on kind of a personal basis; the
degree of increase in sale of their prod-
ucts, domestically and overseas; and the
amount of net income that they realize,
which is a bottom-line thing, after they've
worked for a year on the farm.
I think on all these issues I've just de-
scribed and I could go on-our record
has been good. But obviously we want to
have an equally good record in the next 2
years. I'm willing to rely on the statistics
and the facts and the actual achieve-
ments, not just on words or claims or goals
that are set and sometimes not realized.
PEANUT LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, are you pleased with
the way the new peanut bill is working?
THE PRESIDENT. That's one bill that I
have deliberately not been involved in be-
cause of my family's deep involvement in
peanuts.
When I was running for President, I
promised the public that I would stay
aloof from that particular legislation. And
I issued a directive to Bob Bergland, and
I asked Senator Talmadge and also Tom
Foley to leave me out of that particular
legislation. And I think, though, that it
seems to be working. I don't have placards
and tractors blocking my entrance to my
ter] So, I presume it's working well.
home when I go home to Plains. [Laugh-
The general philosophy behind it—of
course, I was thoroughly familiar with it
before I was elected President. I was in-
volved as one of the leaders in the peanut
industry. But I think, there again, the
trend has been toward decreasing Gov-
ernment involvement and the tight con-
straint on the peanut farmers' production
and an increase in sales and promotion.
I think that the approach is one that's
been good.
SUGAR PRICE SUPPORTS
Q. I'm Dave Bateman, from Fargo,
North Dakota. And there are two things
that concern us out there-obviously, as
you know, water. We think we know how
you feel about Garrison Dam. What
about sugar? Will we have a sugar bill?
We've got the largest contiguous acreage
of sugar beets in the country out there,
and our farmers are rightly concerned
whether we'll have a bill or not.
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to see a
bill passed. There's a wide range of
opinion about what the price level for
sugar should be, all the way from 14 cents
to 17 cents, and this involves an enor-
mous amount of money.
I think the Ways and Means bill that
came out of the House would be the
maximum that I could accept on sugar
prices.
Q. Is that 15 cents?
THE PRESIDENT. That's 15 cents, with
no annual built-in increase.
Q. No escalator clause in there at all?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. That's
1675
