Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
others, which was not the case in the past.
So, I think that the opening up of China
is beneficial to our country and to the
world. I'm very pleased with it.
MS. WALTERS. But you don't expect
full diplomatic relations in the next year—
or do you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's something
that we are pursuing in accordance with
the Shanghai Communique. Our position
has been made clear to Premier Hua and
Deputy Premier Teng, and whenever the
Chinese are ready to move, we are.
BERT LANCE
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, at the
opening of this program, we talked about
disappointments, possible disappoint-
ments that you might contribute to the
American people. And you felt that there
were not. But in your personal life, one
of the disappointments that we're all
aware of must have been what happened
to your good friend, Mr. Lance.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MS. WALTERS. In view of the fact that
these investigations continue into allega-
tions of possible misdeeds or illegalities,
would you still give him your unqualified
support, as you did a year ago?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would.
Ms. WALTERS. Would you still say you
were proud of him, as you did a year
ago?
THE PRESIDENT. I am proud of him.
Bert is a fine, decent human being. He
has probably been investigated with as
concentrated an effort as anyone who's
ever served in government, with the pos-
sible exception of President Nixon during
the Watergate trials.
And I don't know anything about the
details of the investigations, the techni-
calities of the law, and so forth. But Bert
did some things which he's acknowledged,
like using the bank's airplane, along with
customers, to go to the Sugar Bowl game
when the University of Georgia played
there. It was a technical violation of the
law. I'm not trying to make a judgment
on what the investigations will reveal. But
I know Bert Lance, have confidence in
him, and I hope the investigations prove
that he is not guilty of any violation of the
law, whether technical or otherwise.
MRS. CARTER. He's just a good person.
THE PRESIDENT. He really is.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
MS. WALTERS. Would you like to clear
up a whispered allegation-
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, I'll try.
Ms. WALTERS. is this a good
time-
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
MS. WALTERS. -just before Christ-
mas, when people are feeling generous?
Your peanut business enjoyed a $5 mil-
lion line of credit from Mr. Lance's bank.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MS. WALTERS. Now, during the course
of the grand jury investigation, there have
been some whispered suggestions that
some of this money may have found its
way illegally into your Presidential cam-
paign. I'm sure you've heard this.
THE PRESIDENT. That is absolutely
false.
MRS. CARTER. Absolutely.
Ms. WALTERS. I just wanted to give
you the opportunity to assure the Amer-
ican people.
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely false.
Every source of money that came into our
campaign has been thoroughly revealed, I
think, on a monthly basis, all during the
campaign. And we never were inclined to
put warehouse money into the campaign
2261
