Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
prohibition against new settlements, dur-
ing the negotiations concerning the Sinai
with Egypt. My very clear understanding
is that it related to the negotiation for
conclusion in the West Bank, Gaza Strip,
of the establishment of a self-government.
The other question concerns whether
or not Israel would initiate new settle-
ments after this negotiating period was
concluded and the self-government was
established. I think the best answer to that
is that this is an honest difference of
opinion.
The best answer I can give is to quote
from a statement by Foreign Minister
Dayan, who was with us at that mid-
night meeting, and this is a statement
he made at the Ben Gurion Airport on
the 19th of September, when he arrived
in Israel. "Let us not delude ourselves"—
I'm quoting him-"I have no doubt that
when we enter into deliberations with the
other three parties concerning what is to
happen in the area in the 5 years of transi-
tion"-that's the West Bank, Gaza Strip-
"this question will come up and will be
discussed and agreement will have to be
reached on this subject."
So, the degree of participation of the
residents of the West Bank has still got to
be determined. But it's an honest differ-
ence of opinion. It would certainly be no
obstacle to the progress towards peace.
But I can't say that we've resolved it
yet. There's no personal animosity be-
tween myself and Prime Minister Begin.
I certainly do not allege any improper
action on his part. It's just an honest dif-
ference of opinion, which I think will be
resolved.
As far as my going to the Middle East
is concerned, nothing would please me
more than to participate in the signing of
a peace treaty at an early date. But that's
still to be negotiated. The only request
that President Sadat made of me in the
entire Camp David proceedings was that
I come to Egypt. I promised him that I
would sometime in the future.
AIRBASES IN THE NEGEV
Q. May I follow up? If Prime Min-
ister Begin persists, would you consider
cancelling the U.S. agreement to build
airbases in the Negev for Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The letter to
Israel concerning the two airports to be
put in the Negev-I have already di-
rected that that letter be sent to Israel.
It's not being sent from me to Prime
Minister Begin; it's being sent from
Defense Secretary Harold Brown to De-
fense Minister Weizman.
We have not agreed to build the air-
bases. We've agreed to consult with the
Israelis and participate in the cost of those
rebuilt airbases, to the degree that we
negotiate in the future. We will certainly
participate in the cost, the degree to be
determined in the future.
PRESIDENT'S RATING IN THE POLLS
Q. Mr. President, I'm sure you've been
enjoying your big resurgence in the polls
lately, but I wonder if you're fairly confi-
dent you can keep them up there.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not sure about
that. I hope so. My interpretation is that
the polls have been much more accurate
the last week or two than they were be-
fore. [Laughter] But I'll do the best I can.
I think it's not an accurate conclusion
that the culmination of our efforts on, say,
natural gas, civil service reform, and other
major endeavors in the Congress, is the re-
sult of the Camp David accords. Obvious-
ly my own reputation as a capable leader
was enhanced by that agreement, but
we've been working very long months to
bring about the conclusion of some highly
controversial issues. And I will continue
to do the best I can, but my actions will
never be predicated on what is the most
popular. But I'll do what I think is best
for our country, and I'll take my chances
1655
