Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 20
in any progress being made in resolving
the Cyprus dispute of restoring the human
rights of the Greek Cypriots, who have in-
deed suffered and who suffer today. It's
driven a wedge between Turkey and the
rest of the NATO countries, between
Greece and NATO, between Turkey and
Greece, between us and Turkey. And I
hope that the Congress will act expedi-
tiously to remove the Turkey arms em-
bargo.
And there is a unanimous belief that
this is the proper action within NATO,
with the exception of Greece. And I be-
lieve that this action will in the long run
benefit Greece as well. It's a very impor-
tant subject, the most important foreign
affairs subject that the Congress will con-
sider the rest of this session.
ANTI-INFLATION POLICY
Q. Mr. President, Barry Bosworth, your
Council on Wage and Price Stability
head, says that there will be a restructur-
ing of the anti-inflation program in the
administration. The feeling is that the
present program isn't doing the job. Is
that at your instigation, and are you happy
with the anti-inflation program?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it's not at my in-
stigation. We are doing what we can from
the President's office, trying to control in-
flation. We are cutting down the Federal
budget deficit. In 1976, the budget deficit
was in the 60 billions of dollars. In 1978,
it was in the fifties of billions of dollars;
in 1979, in the forties of billions of dollars.
I hope that in the next time we can bring
that down at least to the 30 billions of
dollars.
We are being very constrained on the
Congress in not having excessive expendi-
tures. We also have announced that the
wages of Federal employees, blue-collar
and white-collar employees, will be
limited to about 52 percent. I've put a
complete freeze, from my own sense of
responsibility, on executive salaries. There
will be no increase this year.
We have tried to induce business and
labor to have less of a price or wage in-
crease this year and the next year than
they did in the 2 preceding years. So,
we're trying to do everything without
mandatory controls to limit inflation.
One of the most serious needs to control
inflation is to cut down on the waste of
energy. This puts an enormous burden on
the American people. And I hope that the
Congress will act here. As I said earlier,
Congress has not acted yet on the civil
service reform legislation or on hospital
cost containment. Airline deregulation is
another bill that's being considered by
Congress that will control inflation.
So, we have a comprehensive program
that we put forward. In some cases, the
Congress has acted, in other cases they
have not. But I think the more the Amer-
ican people's interest is built up and the
more political influence they use them-
selves as individuals on Congress to act
against inflation, the better chance we'll
have to succeed.
I think some business leaders have com-
plied with our request; some labor leaders
have acquired to our request, some have
not. But we are building momentum, and
I believe that we can at least let inflation
top off this year. Someone's got to control
American people, the Congress, and my-
it. It's got to be a partnership between the
self. I'm doing all I can.
U.S. PARTICIPATION IN 1980 OLYMPICS
Q. Mr. President, do you agree or
disagree with those who urge that Amer-
ican athletes boycott the 1980 Olympic
games in Moscow as a protest against
Soviet treatment of dissidents?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a decision that
will be made by the United States Olym-
pic Committee. My own hope is that the
1327
