Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
down the Federal deficit? [Applause] I
thought you'd say that, too.
When I was running for President
down here in 1976, our budget deficit,
Federal deficit, was $66 billion. The first
year we cut it down to the fifties of bil-
lions of dollars. The Congress and I have
now cut it down a little below $40 billion.
And before I've been in office one more
year,
we're going to cut the Federal
deficit down below half what it was when
I came in office. And we are going to
continue to work for a balanced budget
for your Federal Government.
Do you want a government that cuts
your income taxes? [Applause] Okay,
okay. Last year, we cut income taxes $8
billion. This year, the Congress has
already passed a bill that would cut our
income taxes about $19 or $20 billion
more. When I get back to Washington
and get that bill, do
that bill, do you think I ought to
sign it? [Applause] I'll take your advice.
I've decided to sign the bill.
I'm just going to ask you three more
questions. One is, do you want a govern-
ment that will keep our social security
system sound? [Applause] Well, as you
well know, 2 years ago, when I came down
here to campaign among you, the first
question I ever got from retired people or
those who were approaching retirement
were, "Is the social security system going
into bankruptcy?"
At that time, in 2 more years, our
social security system would have been
bankrupt. Now the Congress has a social
security system that will be sound and
secure and dependable the rest of this
century. And I can predict to you that
forever, as long as any of us live, we're
going to have a social security system on
which you can depend.
And now, the two most important
things: There is a great challenge that
presents itself to us that we have not yet
solved. I talked about it to you 2 nights
ago; the anti-inflation program that I out-
lined is badly needed. It's tough. It's nec-
essary. It's fair. With the exception of
peace for our Nation and the security of
our Nation, next year the most important
responsibility which I will have on my
shoulders is to control inflation.
There are going to be a lot of special
interest groups who are selfish, who will
not want to join me in controlling infla-
tion. As you well know, the ones who
suffer most are the ones who live on a
fixed retirement income, who have very
low-paying jobs, or who are insecure. I
want to ask you to help me every way you
can to join in against the inflationary
threat to us, and if you will join me and
help me and point out those who violate
the guidelines I've set down, which are
fair, then I believe we can have success.
Will you help me fight inflation this
next year? [Applause] Good deal.
And the last question I want to ask
you is this: Do you want a government
that will help bring peace to the Middle
East? [Applause] Very good.
We've made good progress, as you
know. The people of Israel, the people of
Egypt want peace. They have two cour-
ageous leaders, President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin. I want peace as well. And
we've had an excellent relationship to
date. It's not going to be easy to conclude
the details of a peace treaty between
Israel and Egypt. I need your help, your
support, and your prayers.
I believe that we can be successful. But
I think that this is one of the greatest op-
portunities that any President has ever
faced, to bring to that troubled land in the
Middle East peace, which has escaped
those people for thousands of years.
We'll be negotiating, starting again to-
morrow. The Israeli delegation returns to
Washington this evening. Secretary Vance
will be working on this almost full-time. I
will help when my help is needed. And
1868
