Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 15
islation that I have signed since I've been
in the White House, nor will sign while
I'm here, that brings me more personal
pleasure than does this.
Several years of my life have been
spent, even before I became Governor of
Georgia, developing an acute interest in,
and a love for, the Chattahoochee River.
It's one of the most beautiful places in
our country, extremely valuable to all
those who know it, who live near it, and
who appreciate the quiet and seclusion
and the beauty and the value of this river
to our people. It's a rare occasion when
within the city limits of one of our major
cities, one can find pure water and trout
and free canoeing and rapids and the
seclusion of the Earth the way God made
it. But the Chattahoochee River is this
kind of place.
Standing around me are people who
care as much for the river as do I, who
have been down the river many times, in
great crowds and also in seclusion. And
I'm particularly grateful that Senator
Sam Nunn and Senator Herman Tal-
madge are here, who worked so long and
hard on this bill; Congressman Wyche
Fowler and Congressman Elliott Levitas,
in whose district most of this preservation
will be done and encouragement for use
of the river will be accomplished.
I particularly want to thank Senator
Abourezk and Senator Pete Williams;
and especially Phil Burton, who has hus-
banded this legislation through the Con-
gress in a very effective fashion.
This legislation will provide authoriza-
tion-not the appropriation of money
yet-for the acquisition of property over
a 48-mile stretch, from Buford Dam down
to Peachtree Creek, which is in the city
limits of Atlanta, Georgia, varying in
width of sometimes up to 4,000 feet wide.
It will not permit Federal money to be
used to acquire land that's owned by any
other government entity. That land must
be deeded free of charge to this national
recreation area.
If I've ever seen a project that was
initiated from the local level in a very un-
selfish way, it's this one. We came a long
way in Georgia in preserving this valu-
able national asset on our own. And many
landowners donated property, private or-
ganizations contributed money, and the
intense interest of our people for many,
many years has resulted in this legisla-
tion.
There's a practical benefit, also, in pre-
serving the beauty and the quality of this
area and the purity of the water. From
this river, the Chattahoochee, comes
water for 25 percent of the total popula-
tion of Georgia, almost a million-and-a-
half people.
This is a great step forward and is in-
dicative of the need for well-preserved
recreation areas to be in the immediate
vicinity of major urban centers.
I want to say, also, that this legislation
has broader interest than just to Georgia.
There is an authorization for the preser-
vation of the Fort Scott National Histor-
ical landmark in Kansas, and this is a
very beneficial type of action by the Con-
gress that shows a good coordination be-
tween private citizens, local, State, and
Federal Government.
So, it is with a great deal of pleasure
that I sign into law this legislation, House
bill 8336, that will authorize the national
recreation area encompassing the Chat-
tahoochee River and the Fort Scott Na-
tional Historical landmark in Kansas.
Thank you all for making this happy
day possible for me and for those who
love the Earth the way God made it.
Thank you.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
REPRESENTATIVE LEVITAS. Mr. Presi-
dent, thank you for this opportunity that
you have provided, not only to the people
1425
