Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 8
which fought nobly in the cause of Amer-
ican independence.
General Pulaski died on October 11,
1779 of wounds received in the Battle of
Savannah two days earlier. Nearly two
hundred years later we continue to pay
tribute to him and to the millions of
Americans of Polish descent who have
played such an important part in found-
ing our country, making it grow, and pre-
serving its ideals.
rowing experience. This is especially true
for the one-half million of our citizens
who are legally blind and whose skill and
resolve are tested daily in the traffic of our
busy cities.
For such people, the white cane is an
invaluable tool with which they can move
about confidently and, most important,
independently. Because the white cane is
deceptively simple, many of us do not
realize that special training and skill are
The cane is not a crutch but serves much
as an extension of its user, providing as-
surance that the path ahead is clear and
safe.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER, required to use it effectively and safely.
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Wednesday, Oc-
tober 11, 1978, as General Pulaski's Me-
morial Day and I direct the appropriate
Government officials to display the flag of
the United States on all Government
buildings on that day.
I also invite the people of the United
States to honor the memory of General
Pulaski by holding appropriate exercises
and ceremonies in suitable places
throughout our Nation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:53 a.m., August 9, 1978]
White Cane Safety Day, 1978
Proclamation 4583. August 8, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
For the more than six million Ameri-
cans who suffer severe visual impairment,
merely crossing the street may be a har-
For the sighted, the white cane should
serve as a reminder of the special needs of
the visually handicapped person and of
the importance of exercising simple cour-
tesies which may otherwise be overlooked
in haste. Observing the pedestrian's right-
traffic safety which has extra importance
of-way in a crosswalk is a basic rule of
to the visually handicapped person who
cannot see a vehicle's approach. For the
sighted pedestrian, even a gesture as
simple as offering to accompany a visual-
ly handicapped person across a busy in-
tersection can make the difference be-
tween a safe crossing and a hazardous one.
To heighten public awareness of the
importance of the white cane to the in-
dependence and safety of thousands of
blind and visually handicapped Ameri-
cans, the Congress, by a joint resolution
approved October 6, 1964 (78 Stat. 1003;
36 U.S.C. 169d), has authorized the
President to proclaim October 15 of each
year as White Cane Safety Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim October 15, 1978, as
White Cane Safety Day.
On this occasion, let us all recognize the
achievements of those who have over-
come visual disability and blindness to
1395
