Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
My fourth question, sir: I have an in-
ternal memorandum from the board of
directors of National Association of Man-
ufacturers, which was put out long before
your statement was made public on infla-
tion. I also have the statements from the
Brookings institute. Now, I understand
that in the past the Brookings institute has
been very contributory to the policy and
thinking and things like that of the gov-
ernment.
I want to know, since the statement
of the National Association of Manu-
facturers is almost word for word the
inflation policy as it was described and
announced in your speech, I want to
know, does this show a shift of thinking
away from the policy-type thinking of Ar-
thur Okun, et cetera, toward the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers and
that type of economic thinking?
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. Sir,
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I won't try to answer
all four questions, but I would like to an-
swer the concern about the military
budget.
As I said last night in my speech, the
number one responsibility above all else of
any President is to ensure the safety of our
country. Also, a major portion of my time,
a substantial portion of my time, is spent
in analyzing how the benefits of the in-
fluence of a strong United States can be
invested economically and politically
throughout the world to bring peace to
other regions, and to ensure that alien
philosophies which absolutely wipe out
human rights do not triumph.
I have to match American military
strength with that of the Soviet Union. It
is a constant problem for me, a constant
challenge. It's one I accept readily. Any
President in the past or future would have
to meet that commitment. The Soviet
Union does not have the advantage of
idealism, of freedom, liberty, of honoring
independence or nationalist trends in for-
eign countries. They don't have a com-
mitment to a better life for people built on
freedom. They depend substantially on
their influence to challenge us on military
strength.
We spend about 5 percent of our gross
national product on the military. It's been
reducing year by year for a long period of
time-5 percent. The Soviets spend be-
tween 13 percent and 15 percent of their
gross national product on the military.
We have tried and are trying, not des-
perately, but with determination, to cut
down on the allocation of resources to the
military. We can't do it by unilaterally
putting ourselves in a vulnerable position
versus the Soviet Union.
We have proposed drastic cuts in mis-
siles. We are negotiating in Vienna for
what we call mutual and balanced force
reductions in the European theater. We
are working for a comprehensive test ban.
We're trying to eliminate the proliferation
of nuclear weapons. We are trying des-
perately to bring peace and not divisive-
ness to the Mideast, to Nigeria, to Rhode-
sia, to Nicaragua, other places around the
world.
In the meantime, though, we have got
to have a strong defense. We can't bear
it alone. We've got to inspire our own
military allies to stay strong themselves.
We are not trying to take over anybody's
territory or run anybody else's affairs, but
we cannot afford to be vulnerable.
Now, I hope that every weapon that we
purchase will eventually rust. We are not
buying weapons to use, and the degree to
which we can be demonstrably strong
means that we can have peace for our
own people and for those around the
world.
I do not have any apology to make at
all for maintaining a strong defense. As
2214
