Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Well, we've got a long way to walk in
the future. We'll walk together. Our feet
may be tired, but when we get through,
our soul will be rested.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:14 p.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Representative Parren J. Mitchell of
Maryland, chairman, and Representative Shir-
ley Chisholm of New York, vice chairperson,
Congressional Black Caucus.
Kennedy Space Center, Florida
Remarks at the Congressional Space Medal of
Honor Awards Ceremony. October 1, 1978
Governor Askew, Senator Chiles, Sena-
tor Stone, Senator Stevenson, who is the
chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy
and Technology, Congressman Tiger
Teague-who is the retiring chairman of
the Committee on Science and Technol-
ogy, and who has done so much to bring
our space program to our Nation and who
wrote the legislation establishing the
Space Medal of Honor-Congressman
Fuqua, Congressman Gibbons, Congress-
woman Boggs, ladies and gentlemen;
many of you who have helped in past
years to make the achievements commem-
orated this afternoon possible:
This is one of the most exciting events
of my life. For a number of weeks since I
planned to come here, I've been thrilled
at the prospect of meeting these famous
men on my right, who have done so much
to inspire all those who love our country
and who have confidence in the future of
human beings.
A few minutes ago, we watched a sim-
ulated takeoff and flight of Apollo XI.
And my palms are still sweating with ex-
citement and nervousness, and I might
say that I was not the only one. The as-
tronauts' palms were sweating even more
than mine. [Laughter]
I believe it's accurate to say that we are
here today to recognize and honor six
American pioneers of the farthest and
highest of all frontiers, the frontier of
space. We honor them for individual
human qualities, dedication, skill, extra-
ordinary courage. But we do more than
that. What those men have done is the
most visible part of a vast and continu-
ing collective accomplishment of many
people.
Tens of thousands of Americans, many
of you, including scientists, engineers, ad-
ministrators, skilled workers, others, have
contributed directly to the success of the
American space enterprise. They in turn
have had the support of an entire nation
and the good wishes of an entire planet.
The glory that belongs to the six re-
cipients this afternoon of the Space Medal
helped them, and in a real sense, to all
of Honor belongs equally to those who
humanity who prayed for them and who
supported them. This does not diminish
the glory of these American heroes. It en-
larges their glory.
It's fitting that these ceremonies take
place today on the twentieth anniversary
of the founding of the National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration. And it is,
of course, fitting that they take place here,
where the ships that took men to the
Moon were launched and where we will
take our next great step into space with
the first flight of the space shuttle, which
I sincerely hope will be before my next
birthday. I have every assurance from
those involved that there will be no slip-
page in the present schedule as it now
stands.
1
The age of
space, as Dr. Frosch ยน said,
now be characterized as having
can
ยน Robert A. Frosch, Administrator, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
1684
