Nov. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
assistance made available by the govern-
ment to all students, based on need. I
recently signed into law the Middle In-
come Student Assistance Act, which will
significantly expand our basic grant and
student loan guarantee programs. Nurs-
ing students are also eligible for National
Health Service Corps scholarships.
Disapproval of this bill will not cause
an abrupt termination of funding of the
nurse training programs, since funds are
available for fiscal year 1979 under the
continuing resolution.
If the Nation is to meet its health care
needs at reasonable cost, Federal nursing
and other health professions programs
must make the greatest contribution to
adequate health care at the most reason-
able cost. This bill does not meet that test.
The Administration is now conducting
a major review of its support for all
health professions training, including
nursing. Legislative proposals in this area
will be made to the 96th Congress. These
proposals will recognize the key role of
nurses in our society and the need for
nurses to play an even greater role in the
efficient delivery of health care services.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 10, 1978.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of disap-
proval was released on November 11.
Veto of Bill To Exempt Apparel
Items From Tariff Reductions
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 9937.
November 10, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I have decided not to sign into law
H.R. 9937. This bill is an amendment to
the Bank Holding Company Act which
would authorize the General Services Ad-
ministration to sell certain silver dollar
coins at negotiated prices. I have deter-
mined that this legislation would not be
in the national interest because of an un-
related amendment which exempts all tex-
tile and apparel items from any tariff re-
ductions in the Multilateral Trade Nego-
tiations (MTN) now underway in
Geneva.
I am determined to assist the belea-
guered textile industry. We are committed
to a healthy and growing textile and ap-
parel industry. This legislation would not
advance that cause, and could even harm
the entire U.S. economy.
This bill would not address the real
causes of the industry's difficulties. In re-
turn for any transient benefits, the bill
would prompt our trading partners to re-
taliate by withdrawing offers in areas
where our need for export markets is the
greatest-products such as tobacco,
grains, citrus, raw cotton, paper, machin-
ery, poultry, and textile-related areas such
as mill products and fashion clothing. The
loss of these export areas is too high a
price for our Nation to pay.
The cost of this bill might be even
higher; at best, it would cost us many
opportunities for export; at worst, it could
cause the collapse of the trade talks and
further restrict the growth of the world
economy. If the two and a quarter million
workers in the textile and apparel indus-
try are to survive in their jobs, we must
work to keep the world economy strong
and international trade free.
Just within the last year we have taken
a number of steps to improve the condi-
tion of the U.S. textile and apparel
industry:
-We negotiated a renewal of the
International Multifiber Arrangement
through 1981, providing more responsive
controls over disruptive imports.
-We have negotiated 15 new bilateral
export restraint agreements which are
firmer and fairer than earlier versions,
2008
