Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
-Bases the compensation of Senior
Executives and GS13-15 managers
on individual and organizational
performance.
-Provides the statutory framework for
new systems of performance ap-
praisal within the agencies as a
basis for advancement and retention
of employees.
-Gives managers throughout govern-
ment more flexibility and authority
in all phases of personnel manage-
ment so they can hire, motivate, re-
ward, and discipline employees as
necessary to carry out their programs.
-Provides employees with fairer pro-
tection of their legitimate rights, in-
cluding protection against political
abuse.
Implementation of these and other fea-
tures of the Reform Act call for your per-
sonal leadership and commitment. I know
that I can count on you in this important
effort and that you will give Scotty
Campbell your full cooperation and
support.
JIMMY CARTER
President's Commission on the
Holocaust
Appointment of the Membership and
Advisers to the Commission.
November 8, 1978
The President today announced the 24
persons he will appoint as members of the
President's Commission on the Holocaust.
The Commission was announced by the
President on May 1 at the White House
reception in honor of Israel's 30th anni-
versary, and was formally established by
Executive order on November 1. The pur-
pose of the Commission is to make recom-
mendations on establishing and funding
an appropriate memorial to victims of the
Holocaust, and to recommend ways for
the Nation to commemorate April 28 and
29, 1979, the "Days of Remembrance of
Victims of the Holocaust."
The 24 members of the Commission
announced today are:
ELIE WIESEL, the Andrew Mellon Professor of
Humanities at Boston University, a recog-
nized authority on the Holocaust and survi-
vor of Nazi concentration camps. He will
serve as Chairman of the Commission.
HYMAN BOOKBINDER, Washington representa-
tive for the American Jewish Committee;
ROBERT MCAFEE BROWN, professor of ecu-
menics and world Christianity at Union
Theological Seminary in New York City;
RABBI GERSON COHEN, chancellor and Jacob
H. Schiff professor of history at the Jewish
Theological Seminary of America in New
York City;
LUCY S. DAWIDOWICZ, an author and historian
whose books include the award-winning "The
War Against the Jews 1933-1945";
KITTY DUKAKIS, of Brookline, Mass., who is
active in cultural exchange and scholar-
ship programs between the United States
and Israel;
BENJAMIN EPSTEIN, national director of the
Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith;
RABBI JUDA GLASNER, of Los Angeles, an au-
thor and civic leader, retired as rabbi of
several congregations in California;
ARTHUR J. GOLDBERG, U.S. Representative to
the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe, and former Supreme Court
Justice;
RABBI ALFRED GOTTSCHALK, president of the
Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of
Religion in Cincinnati;
FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, president of
Notre Dame University;
RAUL HILBERG, professor of political science at
the University of Vermont and an historian
of the Holocaust;
RABBI NORMAN LAMM, president of Yeshiva
University in New York;
FRANK LAUTENBERG, national president of the
United Jewish Appeal;
ARNOLD PICKER, of Golden Beach, Fla., a re-
tired attorney, now active in civic and
philanthropic affairs;
1973
