Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 1
in the rate of inflation. This has been
caused by several factors, the most signifi-
cant of which is food costs. And I'd say the
second most significant is interest charges,
both of which are in the Consumer Price
Index.
My guess is that food costs are leveling
off, that the rate of increase will not be
as great in the next 6 months as they have
been in the last 6 months. Interest rates,
as you know, are determined substantially
by the Federal Reserve Board, which is
an independent agency, and I think these
interest rate increases are designed to con-
strain the supply of money.
There's a general attitude to be evolved
in the country, and that is a genuine con-
cern on the part of every American about
inflation and a willingness to make a
common sacrifice. One example of this
obviously is in the passage of a budget act,
an appropriations, series of appropria-
tions bills. Every group demands that
others sacrifice to control inflation. But,
as I said in Texas, we've got to have
someone stand up—and I'm willing to be
that person—against increased demands
from defense contractors, and highway
contractors, local governments, veterans,
educators, farmers. Each one of those
groups can make an excellent case for
more government spending to finance
their particular interest in American life.
But I think we've got to keep a lid on
spending. And I intend to use every re-
source at my command, including the
veto, to hold down unwarranted spend-
ing on the part of Congress. I think so far
Congress has been reasonable. I don't
know about the final outcome of
proposals.
The other thing that has to be done is
in the private sector, and that's where
most of the influence will come. We've
had several large American corporations
to agree to our deceleration formula,
which means that this year the increase
in prices will not be as great as the aver-
age for the preceding 2 years.
The same thing applies to wages.
We've not had as much success yet with
the labor unions in holding down wage
demands as we have had with some of the
corporations in their prices. But this is
predictable.
My own sense is that the workers will
have to see some willingness on the part
of government and business to hold down
prices before they will be willing to make
a long-term sacrifice, because most of
those contracts extend over a period of 3
years or so. But it's going to require a gen-
eral sense that we are in it together, that
we will make mutual sacrifices and some
demonstration of particular elements, like
the Government, that we are indeed se-
rious. With that kind of hope being real-
ized, then I think we can turn the tide,
stop the inflation rate, and then start the
inflation rate down.
I think we will have a very good dem-
onstration on the part of the Government
this year in the size of the budget, the
proposal for fiscal year '80 budget, the
constraints on wage rates in the Govern-
ment, that will be beneficial to the private
sector. And my expectation is that the pri-
vate sector will respond.
So, I think we've got a good hope. It's
going to be a long, tedious, slow process.
We're going to have some disappoint-
ments. But the inflation rate has got to be
controlled. It's my number one domestic
problem, and I can only resolve it with
the help of everyone.
Thank you very much. I've enjoyed it.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:03 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 1.
1233
