Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 1
1
seen narrow economic interests cause the
friction that led to devastating wars. But
we've seen the same economic forces lift
humanity above the bitterest previous
the bitterest previous
divisions.
Most of us here can remember the days
when the United States was engaged in
total war against Germany and Japan,
countries that are now our closest allies.
Largely through the bonds of trade and
commerce, these nations have become our
partners in seeking a prosperous global
future.
I've often wondered what would have
happened if we had the same bonds of
trade and commerce before 1939 or be-
fore 1941. That's why I'm such a staunch
advocate of global commerce. That's why
I'm determined to increase substantially
United States trade with other nations, in-
There is another responsibility that is
imposed upon us, that of simple justice—
justice among nations of the world, jus-
tice among the peoples within each
nation.
It's not too much to believe that all
people should have an equal opportunity
to enjoy life's rewards, whether they were
born in a poor country or a rich one,
whether they were raised by poor parents
or by those of wealth.
The world's governments have a re-
sponsibility to pursue social justice. In the
United States we've increased our foreign
aid appropriations and raised a strong
voice on behalf of human rights, political
rights, social rights, economic rights in our
own country and throughout the world.
We recognize that trade and free eco-
nomies also offer a good hope of improv-
cluding the Soviet Union and the People's ing living standards and a better chance of
Republic of China.
I will not compromise, of course, our
Nation's security nor that of our allies,
but I believe that fruitful economic rela-
tionships can advance the security of all
peoples on Earth.
Let me repeat that governments cannot
achieve this goal alone. Every company,
every corporation, every economic leader
involved in international commerce can
aggravate tensions by encouraging pro-
tectionism, by setting nation against na-
tion and rich against poor, or it can work
to overcome and to prevent these same
negative forces.
That responsibility weighs heavily on
all of us who are in positions of privilege.
We know that if power or profit is pur-
sued for itself, and nothing more, that we
are not worthy of our gifts, but more im-
portantly, our world will suffer. Without
leaders of vision, we can never solve the
problems that most sorely afflict us and
those that threaten us even more in the
future.
protecting individual freedoms in the
broadest definition of the word "free-
dom."
It's very important that we all work to
bring all nations of the world, especially
the Eastern nations, the OPEC nations,
and the underdeveloped nations, more
closely into the world financial and eco-
nomic organizations, like the Internation-
al Monetary Fund, the World Bank,
regional banks, and others. To meet our
own responsibilities, we're expanding our
exports, sustaining our economic growth
at the rate which permits us to buy from
other nations, and taking tough but sen-
sible steps to preserve the value of the
dollar as a reserve currency.
These actions will help to distribute the
world's wealth more equitably in the fu-
ture. But I know as well that you represent
multinational companies; some of you can
often do more than governments to deter-
mine how fairly the world's rewards are
shared.
The International Chamber deserves
great credit for the contributions that
1691
