Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
age point below the average rate of price
increase in 1976-77-the result would be
a 534-percent increase in prices of non-
food commodities and services. The pay
and price standards are thus consistent
with one another.
-Because of the allowances necessary
to deal with a complex economy-such as
the treatment of wage contracts already
signed and the existence of some uncon-
trollable cost increases-widespread ob-
servance of the standards would lead to
an overall rate of inflation of 6 to 62
percent in the year ahead, well below the
rate of inflation in 1978 to date.
REAL WAGE INSURANCE
The President will recommend to the
Congress a program of "real wage insur-
ance." Under this program, workers who
are members of groups that meet the pay
standard would receive a tax rebate if
the rate of inflation in the year ahead ex-
ceeds 7 percent. The program will be
developed for submission to the Congress
in January. Although final decisions re-
main to be made, the broad outlines of
the program are as follows:
-The amount of the rebate would be
equal to the difference between the actual
rate of inflation and 7 percent, multiplied
by an individual worker's pay, up to some
reasonable limit.
-Workers who are members of groups
that meet the 7-percent pay limitation
would be eligible for the real wage insur-
ance.
-The rebate would be paid only if the
rate of inflation in the year ahead actually
exceeds 7 percent.
INCENTIVES FOR COMPLIANCE
The administration will interpret wage
and price increases above the standards as
indications of inflationary conditions, such
as shortages, excessive market power, or
shelter from competition. Thus, increases
in excess of the standards will trigger ac-
tions by the Government such as:
-Reexamining various restrictions on
imports and, where possible and appro-
priate, relaxing them.
-Asking regulatory agencies to review
rate levels and other rules in light of the
standards for wages and prices.
-Seeking modification in those regula-
tions that set minimum levels for prices
or wages in specific situations.
GOVERNMENT PURCHASES
The Federal Government itself is a
major purchaser of goods and services.
By channeling its procurement to those
firms whose price and wage decisions meet
the standards, it can realize long-term sav-
ings in its procurement budget and simul-
taneously take the lead in fighting infla-
tion.
-To the extent consistent with legal
requirements and ensuring national se-
curity, the President will direct Govern-
ment agencies to limit purchases to those
firms observing the pay and price stand-
ards.
-After January 1, the Government will
require firms awarded contracts in excess
of $5 million to certify that they are ob-
serving the standards.
-This program will be administered
by the Office of Federal Procurement
Policy (OFPP) of the OMB.
-Specific procedures to carry out this
policy will be announced soon by OFPP
and by the Council on Wage and Price
Stability (CWPS).
MONITORING
The Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity will be expanded by about 100 persons
to monitor the adherence to the wage and
price standards by firms and employee
groups.
1847
