Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
owed a debt of gratitude which I'm sure
you'll repay.
Obviously, a broad range of
of other
groups have been involved in bringing
this effort to a successful conclusion. The
State legislature, the municipal unions,
and the financial institutions have all
made significant contributions, as have
those leaders in the private sector who
served the city through the Municipal
Assistance Corporation and the Control
Board.
Those who work for the city of New
York have rededicated themselves to its
service. Their commitment is exemplified
by the six brave firefighters who gave their
lives last week in the line of duty.
The New York City Loan Guarantee
Act of 1978 is a step forward toward the
fulfillment of America's national urban
policy. It's part of a much larger effort to
strengthen the fiscal and the economic
base of our communities. Here in New
York, in less than 2 years, we've already
increased Federal aid by more than 30
percent, and we've proposed major urban
legislation which will bring even more
significant benefits to this city.
When I announced the national urban
policy back in March, I called for a New
Partnership involving the private sector of
our economy, labor, citizens groups, and
all levels of government-local, State, and
Federal. Here in New York that New
Partnership is indeed a demonstrated
reality. New York is proving that with
determination and commitment, our peo-
ple can take control of even the most
difficult and serious of problems.
We can take control of our energy prob-
lems, and we will. We can take control of
our inflation problems, and we will. We
can take control of the problem of ineffi-
ciency and fat and waste and poor man-
agement in government, as New York
has already begun to do, and I believe that
our Nation as a whole can do it as well.
The road ahead will not be easy for
any of us. There's still a long way to go.
Like the Nation as a whole, New York
faces tough decisions and more sacrifices
down the road.
In conclusion, let me say that working
together we can ensure that once again,
in the words of E. B. White, "New York is
to the nation what the church spire is to
the small village-a visible symbol of as-
piration and hope and faith."
What we do here today is not an end
but a beginning—a beginning of a new
life, a better life for us all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:19 p.m. out-
side City Hall. Following the ceremony, the
President attended a reception in the Gov-
ernor's Room at City Hall, and then went to
Gracie Mansion, where he and Mrs. Carter
met with Terence Cardinal Cooke of New York.
The President and Mrs. Carter spent the
night at Gracie Mansion and returned to the
White House the following morning.
As enacted, H.R. 12426 is Public Law 95-
339, approved August 8.
International Communication
Agency
Nomination of James D. Isbister and
Harold F. Schneidman To Be Associate
Directors. August 8, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate James D. Isbister, of Mary-
land, and Harold F. Schneidman, of Penn-
sylvania, to be Associate Directors of the
International Communication Agency.
Mr. Isbister is currently vice president
of the Orkand Corp. of Silver Spring,
Md., a position he has held since 1977.
From 1974 to 1977, he was Administrator
of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental
Health Administration. He was a visiting
faculty member at the London School of
1400
