Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Becharof National Monument
Proclamation 4613. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
This monument on the Alaska Penin-
sula supports one of the densest known
populations of the great Alaska brown
bear. This area encompasses habitat used
by a discrete population of bears for
denning and foraging, both north and
south of Becharof Lake.
At the southern end of Becharof Lake,
several hundred bears concentrate during
salmon spawning season. Certain of the
bears make their dens in the area on is-
lands a few feet above the water level, a
unique phenomenon of great interest in
the study of this great carnivore. Deeply
worn bear trails also indicate decades of
extensive use, making this area important
to the study of the bars' long-term habits
and population fluctuation. Rich salmon
spawning habitats and the presence of
such prey species as caribou and moose
are key factors in the intensive use of the
area by the bears.
The biology of the brown bears, their
habitat and associated plant and animal
species within the monument, together
with other ecological features of the area,
combine to offer excellent opportunities
for scientific study and research.
The area is interesting and significant
geologically, as it contains one of Alaska's
most recent volcanically active areas, the
Gas Rocks under Mount Peulik. Studies
here of recent volcanism may contribute
to the growing understanding of this
powerful geological force.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, biological and other phe-
nomena enumerated above supports now,
as it has in the past, the unique subsist-
ence culture of the local residents. The
continued existence of this culture, which
depends on subsistence hunting, and its
availability for study, enhance the historic
and scientific values of the natural objects
protected herein because of the ongoing
interaction of the subsistence culture with
those objects. Accordingly, the opportu-
nity for the local residents to engage in
subsistence hunting is a value to be pro-
tected and will continue under the admin-
istration of the monument.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section
2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved as
the Becharof National Monument all
lands, including submerged lands, and
waters owned or controlled by the United
States within the boundaries of the area
depicted as Becharof National Monument
on the map numbered FWS-81-00-0414
attached to and forming a part of this
Proclamation. The area reserved consists
of approximately 1,200,000 acres, and is
the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
2116
