Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
serious unemployment rates among some
groups of our country. But among heads
of households now 96.6 percent are em-
ployed.
We've had economic growth that's
been steady. It's increased by 9/2 percent
since I've been President. Corporate
profits, in which some of you have some
slight interest, have gone up 37 percent in
2 years. Farm income, which interests
me, net farm income has gone up about
25 percent. Exports, both years, hit an
alltime high. We expect to set a new rec-
ord for our Nation next year. We're con-
stantly probing for new markets for Amer-
ica's goods, and I think that we are
about to make more progress even than
we've achieved in the past.
In the last 2 years we've also reduced
taxes $40 billion, but we still have the
specter of inflation hanging over our
heads, which could very well wipe out all
the gains that I've just described. And
my number one domestic priority above
everything else is to deal successfully with
the inflation threat.
In this respect, your assistance will be
much more difficult than it has been in
the past because of the diversity of action
that must be taken and the wide number
of people who will be directly involved in
an anti-inflation fight. And I think here
the business community's influence can
help to counterbalance the mandatory
sacrifice, that must be well balanced, on
many interest groups that have direct and
great influence in Washington and in the
State and local levels of government. This
will not be an easy or quick task even if
we succeed beyond our present expecta-
tions. It's going to be a long and tenacious
effort required, and I need you to join in
with me as full partners on a permanent
basis. We've seen prices double in the past
11 years. And although we've experienced
inflation at a steady rate, 6½ to 7 percent
for those 11 years, for a while there were
special factors on which we could blame
the high inflation rates oil price in-
creases, a shortage of consumer goods or
raw materials. That has changed, and
there's a more broad-ranging reason now
for inflation with which we have to deal
directly. There are no special factors that
we can blame for our problems.
We've also reduced the Federal deficit
in the short time that I've been in the
White House by about $28 billion. In
1976, the Federal deficit amounted to
more than 4 percent of our gross national
product. When I complete work on the
1980 fiscal year budget, that Federal defi-
cit will be down about 1 percent of our
gross national product.
I think this is a very vivid and clear
demonstration of the leadership that the
Federal Government must take in setting
an example for others to control inflation.
And in the process, we have tried to carry
out a campaign commitment that I made
to reduce the percentage of our gross na-
tional product which is collected and
spent by the Federal Government. In the
past, it was about 23 percent; we're trying
to get it down and will succeed, I believe,
to about a 21-percent level.
There are some commitments that I
have also made to the American public
that I intend to honor. One is to main-
tain a strong defense. We have obligations
to our own people for their security, the
number one responsibility on the shoul-
ders of any President. We must convince
our allies that we stand staunchly with
them with a common approach to any
outside threat to the Western democratic
world.
I think it's accurate to say that when I
became President, because of historical
events years past, there was a shaky
NATO Alliance. Many of our partners
there were not convinced of the resolve of
America, and we had to commit ourselves
to them, not only to set an example but to
2236
