Oct. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
about a realization of what our Nation is,
and wasn't at that time.
I think it's accurate to say that she is
one who has enjoyed great success, and
she's been eager to share that success with
many others, through scholarships,
through her own humanitarian efforts,
and through the example of a life, she's ex-
panded her influence in a beneficient way
to encompass the lives of many others.
It's a great honor for me to deliver to
her on behalf of the American people a
special gold medal that was mandated to
be designed and produced for her by the
Congress of the United States. I've never
had an experience like this before. This is
indeed an honor for me. And I think the
recognition of her and what her life
means to our country by the Congress is
indeed well deserved.
It's a great honor to me as President,
on behalf of more than 200 million
American citizens-indeed, not in a pre-
sumptuous way, on behalf of many
hundreds of millions of people around
the world to give her this token of our
esteem, our appreciation, our admiration,
and our personal love.
Miss Anderson, it's a great honor for
me to present this medal to you.
MISS ANDERSON. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, I am without the proper
words to express to you today the depth
of my feelings. I have always loved
America, and without getting on a soap-
box to say so, we tried to do in our me-
dium that which we felt was more like us
to do. And we do hope in some places
there was some good.
When Mrs. Carter spoke to me about
the possibility of receiving the medal, and
we waited for days, weeks, and months,
I just wondered whether or not this was
going to have to be given posthumously.
[Laughter]
But here we all are, and this is about
the happiest moment of my life. And I
can't find all the words that I would
like to say, but this much is true: I could
not have been here at this moment on this
spot without people all over the world,
many of whom I did not know and never
will, sending up prayers now and then,
that we would be always under His pro-
tection. And I believe that we were. That
President Carter and Mrs. Carter are the
kind of people that they are is like a
beacon in a desert. And they mean so
much to so many people whom they don't
know and never will know.
And I am so thrilled at this moment,
that I don't know that I can get back to
my seat or not. [Laughter] But I am eter-
nally grateful, eternally grateful, because
whatever has been done, so many people
have had a part in it. And I thank the
dear Lord up above for all that He has
done, and I hope that He shall be with
me forever, as I hope He will be with
you, because without Him, we are naught.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Anderson's
autobiography is entitled, "Oh Lord,
What a Morning," and the final words
in that autobiography, I thought, were
appropriate to be read after she made
her response. And I'm quoting the last
paragraph in her autobiography.
"There are many persons ready to do
what is right because in their hearts they
know it is right. But they hesitate, waiting
for the other fellow to make the first move,
and he in turn waits for you. The minute
a person whose word means a great deal
dares to take the open-hearted and coura-
geous way, many others follow. Not
everyone can be turned aside from mean-
ness and hatred. But the great majority
of Americans is heading in that direc-
tion. I have a great belief in the future
of my people and my country."
1788
