Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
MS. WALTERS. Sometimes in this area
you're damned if you do, and damned if
you don't. I hear the other side. People
said to me, "You're going to interview
the President. Okay, ask him why he
doesn't pursue human rights in the Philip-
pines. Ask him why he doesn't do it in
Chile. Ask him why he waited so long in
Iran." You get both sides.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think if you
would talk to President Marcos or to
President Pinochet that you would find
that they have felt the influence of the
United States toward enhanced human
rights. We also are constantly reminded
in our own country that because we have
espoused so strongly the human rights
commitment, that we reassess what we do
in the United States, to be sure we don't
violate basic human rights.
And this is an issue now that has be-
come almost a worldwide obsession. I
doubt that any world leader goes through
a day that he or she doesn't think, "How
are we measuring up in world opinion, in
the opinion of my own constituents or
citizens, as related to my performance on
human rights?" I think it ought to be a
burning issue.
MS. WALTERS. Even Mr. Marcos-be-
MS. WALTERS. We'll return and talk
about some personal matters. I don't know
whether that will be easier or harder to
answer. We'll be right back.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Mr. President, we seem to be very
close to a SALT agreement, and there
comes in this the whole question of, can
we trust the Russians. The fight in Con-
gress looks as if it's going to be a very
tough fight. Some people say it's going to
make the Panama Canal debate look like
a Sunday school picnic. How do you re-
assure Congress and the people?
THE PRESIDENT. The SALT agreement,
when concluded-and I think it'll be
quite soon-will be in the best interests
of our country. It will enhance our own
security. And whether we trust the Soviets
or not, we will have an adequate ability
to verify whether or not they comply. So,
the American people need not be con-
cerned about that.
Ms. WALTERS. Do you think Congress
is going to pass it?
The President. I believe so, because
it's in the best interests of our country.
And I think that Congress wants to do
cause that's where you've been criticized, what's in the best interests of our coun-
since he's an ally-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, yes, I think even
Mr. Marcos, yes. But I don't want to
single him out. There are many, many
others. And there have been thousands
of people released from prison-I don't
want to take credit for it but I think
because there's a growing awareness of
the need for human rights.
MRS. CARTER. And I think it's given
hope to people all over the world. I see
it in traveling, the difference in attitude
of people toward our country. I think
there's a trust and respect for our country
now that was not there before.
try.
MS. WALTERS. I said that we were
going to discuss personal matters. I'd just
like to ask a couple of catchall questions
before we do.
PATTY HEARST
Mr. President, do you have any plans
to pardon Patty Hearst?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any plans
to treat Patty Hearst as a special case.
From time to time, I get recommenda-
tions from the Attorney General to change
the sentence of dozens of people-some-
2257
