Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
In waging this war on inflation, I reject
the policies of the past. I will not fight
inflation by throwing millions of Ameri-
cans out of work. And you can depend on
that. You know that such a policy was
followed in the past, but it's morally
wrong.
We've suffered from severe inflation for
the last 10 years. Our current inflation is
certainly not due to excessive wage in-
creases or responsible Government pro-
grams. It will do no good to search for
villains, whether in Government, business,
or labor. But business and labor, like gov-
ernment, are critical to stopping inflation.
labor movement when the best interests
of our country are at stake. I place my
faith in the broad social concern that you
have shown so often in the past. I have no
doubt that you will meet the challenge
that faces our country once more. To-
gether, as partners, we can and we will
continue to build for the future an even
greater America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. at
the Atlantic City Convention Center.
As both business and labor try to catch Atlantic City, New Jersey
up with past inflation and protect them-
selves against future inflation, prices and
wages keep mounting, just to protect one-
self. And in the end, no one wins.
To bring inflation under control, we
must have cooperation among business,
labor, government, the general public of
our country. This is indisputable.
In the near future, I will announce a
strengthening of our limited arsenal of
weapons against inflation. I can tell you
today that what we will do will be fair.
It will not penalize labor or any other
group in our society. At the same time, it
will be tough. I will ask for restraint and
some sacrifice from all. I will ask you to
consider what I will have to say with open
minds and in a spirit of cooperation and
patriotic concern.
The problem of inflation is enormously
difficult, far more complicated, far more
difficult than it was a decade or two ago.
Controlling this problem is not just one
option among many. It is an absolute
necessity. We must control inflation, and,
in order to do it, we must work together.
I spoke of conscience at the beginning
of this talk. I have no hesitation in calling
upon the conscience of the United Steel-
workers of America and the American
Remarks at a Democratic Party Campaign
Luncheon. September 20, 1978
One of the nice things about New Jersey
is that I experienced this same kind of re-
ception and friendship and applause even
before Camp David. [Laughter]
When I came here during the early
stages of Brendan Byrne's campaign for
Governor, I was really overwhelmed with
the response of the people of your State,
and the very wise decision that you made
is a credit to you in choosing this man who
has absolute integrity to administer the af-
fairs of your State during this exciting time
for New Jersey.
just had an interview with public tele-
vision, and one of the things that I could
not restrain myself from saying was that
since I've been coming here-1974, '75,
'76, to campaign, and now as President,
'78-I've seen a tremendous upsurge in
the spirit of the people of New Jersey.
There's a confidence in the future, an ea-
gerness to work together, a friendship, a
kind of exemplification of the finest as-
pects of our country that is shown by you
in New Jersey and, I think, particularly
by the Democrats of New Jersey. And I'm
thankful for it.
1550
