Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 29
to present it to Congress with a budget,
we thought that $20 billion would be a
good figure or 25. We found since then
that because of inflation and the very
rapid and unanticipated reduction in the
unemployment rate, that a lower figure
would be appropriate, in the neighbor-
hood of $15 billion net.
And the last thing that we'd like to
have is simplification.
So, I would say that reduction of taxes,
equity improvement, progressivity, sim-
plification are the elements of a tax pro-
posal that we would find acceptable. I'm
flexible enough. But outside of those
guidelines, I would be fairly flexible.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. One more question,
and then I'll-
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, in the early days of
the campaign, you made a prayer break-
fast speech in Miami on the theme of God
and country-very effective. And I think
the promise that you gave the electorate
about spiritual leadership was helpful in
your winning the election. Do you feel
that since you've held office that you've
fulfilled your goals in this respect?
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] No. And
I don't know whether to answer that as
a politician or a Christian. As a Christian,
you know, I recognize that I am sinful,
that I fall short of the expectations of
God and my fellow human beings. And
as a politician, I know that there are
many times when either I or my associates
emphasize the subject of human rights,
for instance.
I felt then, during the campaign, and I
feel now that the American consciousness
was dealt a very severe blow by the Viet-
nam war and by the Watergate revela-
tions and by the violations of law that
were proven against the CIA.
I felt as an individual and as a potential
President that the people were embar-
rassed about their own Government and
felt that the Nation and its image was not
as high as it had been in the past, as it
was originally conceived or as the Ameri-
can people expected it to be. And we
have tried to improve that image not by
misleading anybody, but by trying to stand
for things that we felt were important.
Human rights in its broadest definition
is one of the notable elements in that ef-
fort. We've had a concerted commitment
to bring peace to some of the troubled
areas of the world, and we've tried genu-
inely to understand the special attitudes
of billions of people, literally, who in the
past had condemned the United States
and what we stood for.
I think we are competing adequately
with the Communist nations for the hearts
and souls and trust and friendship and,
to be more practical, the trade and po-
litical alignments with nations that in the
past were either noncommitted at best,
or oriented toward totalitarian, atheistic
philosophies at worst. I think we made
some progress there.
But I can't say we've done an adequate
have disappointed the American people, job. There's a lot of inertia, and we make
no matter how hard we try.
I think that there has been a restoration
in some areas of government of the
American people's trust which have been
beneficial. I tried in my acceptance speech
at the convention and in my inaugural
speech, which was a very brief speech, to
a lot of mistakes. But we are trying hard,
and I think we are making some progress.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 29.
1355
