Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States Railway Association
Nomination of Four Members of the Board
of Directors. August 3, 1978
The President today announced four
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
United States Railway Association. They
are:
JAMES E. BURKE, 58, of Freehold, N.J., vice
president of the Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen;
tries; these decisions point us in the right
direction. The President believes that the
test of the summit is effective followup
on its decisions. The German proposals
indicate that good progress is being made
to this end.
National Grandparents Day, 1978
Proclamation 4580. August 3, 1978
ROBERT G. FLANNERY, 53, of San Francisco, By the President of the United States
president and chief executive officer of the
Western Pacific Railroad Co.;
STANTON P. SENDER, 45, of Washington, D.C.,
transportation counsel of Sears, Roebuck
and Co.;
NATHANIEL WELCH, 58, of Atlanta, executive
vice president of the Georgia Freight Bu-
reau.
Bonn Economic Summit
Conference
White House Statement on the West German
Government's Commitment. August 3, 1978
The President has been advised by
Chancellor Schmidt of the measures that
the German cabinet will propose to the
legislature for 1979 tax cuts and added
expenditures totaling 12.2 billion deutsche
marks, in order to fulfill the German sum-
mit commitment "to propose to the legis-
lative bodies additional and quantitative-
ly substantial measures up to 1 p.c. of
GNP, designed to achieve a significant
strengthening of demand and higher rate
of growth." The President was pleased to
learn of these German decisions. They
should provide a substantial and welcome
impetus to demand and growth.
Building a healthy world economy will
be a long process involving many coun-
of America
A Proclamation
Our nation was shaped by the wisdom
and courage of our founding fathers, and
by the steadfastness of succeeding gener-
ations who have sustained their vision
through two turbulent centuries of chal-
lenge and growth.
Each American family is similarly
shaped and guided by its forbears. Just
as a nation learns and is strengthened by
its history, so a family learns and is
strengthened by its understanding of pre-
ceding generations. As Americans live
longer, more and more families are en-
riched by their shared experiences with
grandparents and great-grandparents.
The elders of each family have the re-
sponsibility for setting the moral tone for
the family and for passing on the tradi-
tional values of our Nation to their chil-
dren and grandchildren. They bore the
hardships and made the sacrifices that
produced much of the progress and com-
fort we enjoy today. It is appropriate,
therefore, that as individuals and as a na-
tion, that we salute our grandparents for
their contribution to our lives.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Ameri-
ca, do hereby designate Sunday, Septem-
ber 10, 1978, as "National Grandparents
1360
