Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
and I look forward to the guidance and
counsel I will get from our future meet-
ings.
A member of the caucus, Congress-
man Gus Hawkins, drafted, with the late
Senator Hubert Humphrey, a landmark
full employment bill, which I endorsed in
my campaign and have strongly supported
since the beginning of my administration.
Among the caucus' most outstanding
achievements has been the effort to make
all Americans aware of the need for a leg-
islated commitment to a full employment
policy.
Over the next 2 weeks, the debate over
this legislation will intensify. Throughout
that debate, we should never lose sight of
the fact that the Humphrey-Hawkins bill
is designed to help all Americans, not just
blacks or other minorities. A full employ-
ment commitment of the Federal Govern-
ment will benefit men and women of
every color and economic status.
I continue to regard the passage of the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill as one of the
highest legislative priorities of my admin-
istration. Working with the Congressional
Black Caucus and the Full Employment
Council, led by Coretta Scott King, my
administration has been working to en-
sure passage this year
of this long overdue
and much needed legislation.
We have been successful so far in the
House of Representatives, which over-
whelmingly passed the Humphrey-Haw-
kins bill this year. The bill is now before
the Senate, and through the leadership of
Senator Byrd, the bill has now been
placed on the Senate calendar. We are
now working with the Senate leadership
to secure a time agreement on this bill so
that we can be certain the 95th Congress
will not adjourn without passage of the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill. If the Members
of the Senate allow this bill to come to a
vote, I have no doubt that we will suc-
ceed.
Congressional Black Caucus
Remarks at the Caucus' Annual Dinner.
September 30, 1978
Chairman Parren Mitchell, Vice Chair-
person Shirley Chisholm, members of the
Black Caucus, distinguished black reli-
gious leaders from all over the Nation,
ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters:
I think in the last 2 days, everybody
knows how I stand on the Hawkins-
Humphrey full employment bill. And I
want to make sure that the chairman of
the Black Caucus is with us. So, I brought
tonight a big button that says, "Justice
Through Jobs, Pass Humphrey-Hawkins,
Sponsored by the National Council of
Churches." I want to make sure that Par-
ren Mitchell wears this, too.
This is a great evening-two hotels
full of great Americans who believe in
progress, who have proven it, sometimes
at the risk of your own lives, who know
the greatness of our country, believe it
can be even greater. Gus Hawkins is here.
He met me outside. And he's one of those
who has had the sensitivity and the te-
nacity, the influence in the Congress to
make great progress on a bill in which
we are all interested.
There's another great man who
worked with him who couldn't be here
tonight. Of all the white men I've ever
known, he was closest to the black peo-
ple of our country. Of all the druggists
I've ever known, he was closest to being a
preacher, and that's Senator Hubert
Humphrey. He was one of those, like
you and like myself, who didn't believe in
the trickle-down theory of government
services.
There are a lot of definitions of that.
I think Senator Humphrey had the best.
He said the Republican theory, the
trickle-down theory, was if you feed a
horse enough oats, eventually the spar-
1679
