Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
will be produced by the incentive pay,
the Senior Executive Service. And I
think that will have an effect on the
character and environment of the work-
place, which will make it a much more
exciting, a much more interesting place
to work than it has traditionally been, and
add that to the kinds of protections which
will now exist in the system, which can
be done speedily, which will recognize the
fact that an employee doesn't have 3
years in which to fight a case, and that
you will find it just a much better place to
work for all employees-managers and
others as well.
cate specifically whether or not you would
accept or reject legislation which grants
Federal employee unions the right as a
part of the collective-bargaining process
to negotiate the wages in open or closed
agency shops?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is to
limit the collective-bargaining process in
this legislation to what is included in the
Executive order today.
There have been a few technical
amendments worked out with Ken Blay-
lock and the union before the legislation
was introduced that would expand that
in some ways that I don't quite under-
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Ceola, stand. But I personally don't favor some
very much.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
LARRY T. SUITERS. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Larry.
MR. SUITERS. I'm a life-long resident
of this area who is self-employed and who
has never been a member of the Federal
civil service. You have stated your opposi-
tion to expanding collective bargaining
for Federal employee unions beyond Fed-
eral Executive Order 11491. Recent ac-
tion by the House committee has signifi-
cantly expanded collective-bargaining
rights beyond those set forth in the Exec-
utive order. It has also been reported that
you
have indicated to Federal employee
union officials that you favor a system of
labor relations which approximates that
which exists in private industry.
To those of us in the private sector, col-
lective bargaining is a very broad term
which includes many elements, the most
significant and controversial of which
are, one, the right of unions to negotiate
wages and benefits, and, two, the issue of
open or closed agency shops.
Would you please state the essential
elements which you include in your defi-
nition of collective bargaining and indi-
of the additions that were made by the
Post Office and Civil Service Committee.
I would again like to turn to the profes-
sional on my left, Scotty Campbell, to
explain the small additional technical
amendments that we did approve, and
then perhaps Congressman Fisher would
like to comment as well.
MR. CAMPBELL. Yes. First, neither the
administration nor the House committee
bill nor the Senate committee bill con-
tain bargaining for wages and benefits,
nor do they contain agency shop. And
there is no intention on the part of either
Congress or the administration to move
in that direction as far as collective bar-
gaining is concerned.
The one area of expansion in collec-
tive bargaining which the administration
supports is to allow the negotiation of an
agreement whereby an employee who is
disciplined, discharged, suspended, may
use arbitration as a means of challenging
that, rather than using the statutory ap-
peals system. We believe this serves the
interest of both labor and management,
because it speeds the process, does provide
the employee an alternative for arbitra-
tion against the statutory appeals which,
even in our new system, will not be as
rapid as arbitration.
1368
