Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 29
and employees promoted, transferred, or
otherwise assigned, for the first time, to
supervisory or managerial positions shall
be required to serve a probationary period
under terms and conditions prescribed by
the Office.";
by deleting the last sentence under Rule
IV-Prohibited Practices, Sec. 4.3; and
by substituting for Rule V-Regula-
tions, Investigations, and Enforcement, a
new Rule V as follows:
"Rule V-REGULATIONS, INVESTIGA-
TIONS, EVALUATION, AND ENFORCEMENT"
"Sec. 5.1. Civil Service Regulations.
The Director, Office of Personnel Man-
agement, shall promulgate and enforce
regulations necessary to carry out the pro-
visions of the Civil Service Act and the
Veterans' Preference Act, as reenacted in
Title 5, United States Code, the Civil
Service Rules, and all other statutes and
Executive orders imposing responsibilities
on the Office. The Director is authorized,
whenever there are practical difficulties
and unnecessary hardships in complying
with the strict letter of the regulation, to
grant a variation from the strict letter of
the regulation if such a variation is within
the spirit of the regulations, and the effi-
ciency of the Government and the in-
tegrity of the competitive service are
protected and promoted. Whenever a
variation is granted the Director shall
note the official record to show: (1) the
particular practical difficulty or hardship
involved, (2) what is permitted in place
of what is required by regulation, (3) the
circumstances which protect or promote
the efficiency of the Government and the
integrity of the competitive service, and
(4) a statement limiting the application
of the variation to the continuation of the
conditions which gave rise to it. Like vari-
ations shall be granted whenever like con-
ditions exist. All such decisions and infor-
mation concerning variations noted in the
official record shall be published promptly
in a Federal Personnel Manual, Letter or
Bulletin and in the Director's next annual
report.
"Sec. 5.2. Investigation and Evalua-
tions. The Director may secure effective
implementation of the civil service laws,
rules, and regulations, and all Executive
orders imposing responsibilities on the
Office by:
(a) Investigating the qualifications
and suitability of applicants for positions
in the competitive service. The Director
may require appointments to be made
subject to investigation to enable the Di-
rector to determine, after appointment,
that the requirements of law or the civil
service rules and regulations have been
met.
(b) Evaluating the effectiveness of:
(1) personnel policies, programs, and op-
erations of Executive and other Federal
agencies subject to the jurisdiction of the
Office, including their effectiveness with
regard to merit selection and employee
development; (2) agency compliance
with and enforcement of applicable laws,
rules, regulations and office directives;
and (3) agency personnel management
evaluation systems.
(c) Investigating, or directing an
agency to investigate and report on, ap-
parent violations of applicable laws, rules,
regulations, or directives requiring cor-
rective action, found in the course of an
evaluation.
(d) Requiring agencies to report, in a
manner and at times as the Director may
prescribe, personnel information the Di-
rector requests relating to civilian em-
ployees in the Executive branch of the
Government, as defined by Section 311 of
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, in-
cluding positions and officers and em-
ployees in the competitive, excepted and
Senior Executive services, whether per-
2295
