Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
Lake Clark, is the site marking the first
known Russian exploration of the region
in the late eighteenth century. The area
holds great promise for the discovery of
further evidence defining the impact of
the Native-European contacts.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this proclamation for the protection of the
geological, archeological, historical, bio-
logical and other phenomena enumerated
above supports now, as it has in the past,
the unique subsistence culture of the local
residents. The continued existence of this
culture, which depends on subsistence
hunting, and its availability for study, en-
hances the historic and scientific values
of the natural objects protected herein
because of the ongoing interaction of the
subsistence culture with these objects. Ac-
cordingly, the opportunity for local resi-
dents to engage in subsistence hunting is
a value to be protected and will continue
under the administration of the monu-
ment.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof
parcels of land, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section 2
of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225,
16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there
are hereby set apart and reserved as the
Lake Clark National Monument all lands,
including submerged lands, and waters
owned or controlled by the United States
within the boundaries of the area de-
picted as the Lake Clark National Monu-
ment on the map numbered LACL-90,-
009 attached to and forming a part of this
Proclamation. The area reserved consists
of approximately 2,500,000 acres, and is
the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument upon acquisition of title there-
to by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under
the public land laws, other than ex-
change. There is also reserved all water
necessary to the proper care and man-
agement of those objects protected by this
monument and for the proper adminis-
tration of the monument in accordance
with applicable laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.), and under or confirmed in the
Alaska Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note
preceding Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section 17
(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in this
Proclamation is intended to modify or
revoke the terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding dated September 1, 1972,
entered into between the State of Alaska
and the United States as part of the nego-
2133
