Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 2
Dear Mr. President:
July 31, 1978
In recent months, I have had to deal
increasingly with the subject of approach
This is the most difficult letter that I rather than that of substance, spending
have ever written.
For 20 months, I have worked hard to
serve you and your administration to help
you keep your commitment to a partner-
ship with the people.
My job was to keep you from being iso-
lated to bring you the message of what
people were thinking and feeling and
needing, and there were times that re-
quired my speaking out.
I listened in the White House, and I
listened as I travelled throughout the
country to ethnic groups, women, minori-
ties, youth, senior citizens, and others who
wished to participate.
I care about the issues of the young and
the old, of minorities and women-and
most especially the ratification of the
Equal Rights Amendment—and I know
you do too.
Although we share these common goals
and concerns, it has become clear that our
approaches to fulfilling them are differ-
ent. I have thought about how in every
government, including this one, the com-
plexities of the problems place enormous
pressures on the people whose job it is
to carry out those responsibilities. Within
this administration, we are people of
varied backgrounds, styles and experi-
ences, and the manner in which we carry
out your charge reflects our training and
orientation.
My own approach has been largely one
of advocacy. I have sought to advise you
on the concerns assigned to me and to
present those interests and needs to you.
There are those who suggest that I
should have simply carried out your poli-
cies and not voiced my own opinions and
ideas openly. But that was not my style,
my experience, or my interpretation of
how I could best serve you and your
constituents.
valuable time and energy discussing
whether I have spoken out too much,
what my relations are to your other sen-
ior staff, or where my office is located.
The task of government is too enormous
and the needs of the people are too urgent
to absorb our differences in approach or
to allow the time to create the atmosphere
necessary to deal effectively with our
goals, while sorting out the variety of our
approaches.
If we could declare a recess and stop
the wheels of government so that we
could reconcile our diverse methods, we
could perhaps come out ahead and serve
the people at the same time. Since that is
not possible, I have decided that at this
time it is best for me to continue to search
for solutions to the issues that originally
brought us together, in another capacity
outside the White House.
Participation in your administration
may well be the most valuable experience
of
my
life. I am mindful of that as I take
my leave.
I leave with the realization that this
experience will assist me as I continue to
pursue my commitment to addressing the
needs of the people in a different form.
I leave with the knowledge that you
care about the vital issues that I have
worked on, and trust that my efforts will
have established a sound beginning for
whomever you appoint as my successor
and that the crucially important work on
women's issues and domestic human
rights can proceed without interruption.
I leave with the desire to cooperate in
every way possible with you and your ad-
ministration in the pursuit of these goals
in the future.
Sincerely yours,
MARGARET MIDGE COSTANZA
Assistant to the President
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20500]
1359
