Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
of support for Congressman Mikva. We
all want to have a better nation. We all
want to meet our responsibilities of pub-
lic office.
It's an exciting thing to come tonight
to see democracy in action, to see dedi-
cated Americans who are willing to fight
to have a nation that's even greater than it
is. And it's an inspiration to me as Presi-
dent to be in a rally with this degree of
enthusiasm and fervor and commitment
and support and success that's going to be
demonstrated next Tuesday night.
We've got a candidate for the United
State Senate here, whom I've known for
several years. When the Democratic Party
has met in its annual conventions or its
midterm conventions, we have chosen a
man from Illinois, who was not well
known even in his own State, to come and
give us advice and counsel in shaping the
policies and the goals and ambitions of our
party in foreign affairs. And I'm very
grateful to have a man here with me to-
night who intends not only to continue
using his great knowledge and ability and
influence to have a better success in deal-
ing with other countries but who has
pledged himself to cut the deficit every
year, to cut taxes-and he will-to have
fiscal responsibility in his administration
as U.S. Senator, and who's casting his
own future on a door-to-door campaign
for the Senate, and one whom my mother,
Lillian, loves-Alex Seith.
My mother has been into Illinois twice
to campaign with Alex. The first time she
pronounced his name wrong. [Laughter]
And she couldn't remember how to say it,
and she finally remembered that Seith re-
minded her of Jimmy's teeth, and she got
it right from then on. [Laughter]
From that point on, his fortune has
turned. And he has surprised and startled
the political world throughout our coun-
try by the success of his campaign, because
he's been sound, firm, strong, consistent
and because he's cast his lot, not with
powerful political figures, but with people
on street corners and in their homes, when
he's gone door to door to let you know
what a United States Senator can be who
cares about you and who will be a very
fine partner for Adlai Stevenson.
There's also a young man that I've
learned to respect, admire, and even love,
a young man who comes from a family of
immigrants, Greek immigrants, who came
here believing in the future of our Nation,
who knows what it means to work hard
for a chance in life, who, through superb
dedication, confidence, and ability and,
above all, an understanding and a com-
passion for the average people of Illinois
in particular, has come from nowhere in
politics, who has never been ahead in any
poll conducted before election night, who
has never lost an election, and who will
win next Tuesday night for Governor-
Mike Bakalis.
I'd like to talk to you very quietly for
a few minutes about some thoughts that
are on my mind.
Four days before the election in 1960,
the people of the Nation went to the polls
to vote, and the outcome of that election
hung on the results in Illinois. It was very
close. John Kennedy was elected Presi-
dent of our country. In that election two-
thirds of the American people went to the
polls to vote. In recent elections and the
predictions for next Tuesday night, two-
thirds of the American people will not
vote.
We've seen poll results-I have, as Pres-
ident, the last few days-that show that
the Democrats on a nationwide basis have
a substantial advantage over Republican
candidates, on an average. That's all vot-
ers. But among those who are likely to go
to the polls and vote, the Democratic ad-
vantage is slashed in half.
1937
