Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
And this crowd truly means that this
is one of the most important pieces of
legislation to have passed the Congress of
the United States, I would say, in a cen-
tury. Because of the diversity of ideas and
because of the parochialness of the prob-
lem of energy, we did have a struggle. But
with your great leadership, Mr. President,
the Congress of the United States enacted
this bill. And I think it augurs well for the
country, for the democracy for which we
stand for, the Congress, and the world it-
self. So, I congratulate you, Mr. President,
on your leadership.
Someday someone could write a book
about the passage of this legislation. One
of the most remarkable achievements was
the formation of an ad hoc committee in
the House by the Speaker and led by Lud
Ashley, working very closely with the
others assembled around him. And this
made it possible to expedite in the House
the passage of legislation which might
have been blocked even permanently by
the diversity of committees that are re-
sponsible for the passage of the legislation.
This is not because of any defect in the
House, but because of the extreme com-
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman Harley plexity of the legislation: Almost every
Staggers, the chairman.
you
REPRESENTATIVE STAGGERS. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to congratulate you and
commend you for your leadership. With-
out your leadership this bill would never
have been enacted-I can tell that-
without your persistence and persever-
ance. So, the country owes a lot to you. I
can say that. It's not a perfect bill. I didn't
agree with all of it by a long way, but I
worked for it, because you said and most
of them said it would be good for Ameri-
ca. And I think it's the best thing we
could get. So, it showed it on our side that
it's the best bill that we could possibly
get out.
There are so many that need to be
commended that I'm just not going to try
to do that, but John Dingell did such a
great job on our side, and I know that
Tip O'Neill was always on top of it on
our side; Lud Ashley, completely, all the
time, and, of course, the Senators. There
were so many of those that were in the
conference that were really working hard
to get it done. We just hope and pray that
it'll be good for America and that we will
have synthetic fuels in place to take the
place of all other fuels by the time we
deregulate gas. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
committee in the House could have had
some jurisdiction over this legislation.
And I'm very grateful to Tip for his great
leadership and for Harley Staggers, who's
already spoken. And I'd like to ask Lud
Ashley, the leader of the ad hoc commit-
tee, to make a comment.
RepresentatiVE ASHLEY. Well, thank
you, Mr. President. I've got to be very
candid with you. I hope you never send
us a legislative package like the number
you did on us last April. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You've got my
promise. [Laughter]
REPRESENTATIVE ASHLEY. But if you
find it necessary, Mr. President, I hope
that I'll be able to play a part in the ef-
forts as I have this time.
You're quite right that whenever you
have a bill over which has been said the
last rites as many times as this one, so
many close votes, why, there are a number
of people, most of whom are in this room,
who claim credit-for example, the 207-
to-206 vote. [Laughter] And since most
of them are in the room, I'd like to say
thanks to whoever it was. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We had a lot of peo-
ple saying last rites, but nobody ever gave
the benediction. [Laughter]
John Dingell is one who held the nego-
tiations together on many of those occa-
1981
