Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion. In times of extreme need, under
John White, under Bob Strauss, both of
whom are here, Ken Curtis, you helped
financially, and this has been one of the
most gratifying aspects of my own rela-
tively brief political life.
When we were in deep distress, you
came through with no thought or ex-
pectation of benefiting personally. It's the
kind of generosity that too often goes un-
recognized, but I recognize it, and I thank
you for it. You'll never be thanked ade-
quately, but the financial stability of our
party is extremely important.
As you know, there again, we inherited
a $9 million debt, left over from ancient
past campaigns. [Laughter] And we've
not only tried to keep our party viable
financially by tight management and the
elimination of waste, but we've also had
to pay off those back debts. And I feel
deeply indebted to you.
The last thing I want to say is this: We
are partners in every sense of the word. If
and when we do have success in con-
trolling inflation, or putting our Ameri-
can people back to work, or building
homes, or providing better education, or
bringing peace to the Mideast, or a good
SALT agreement, or better relations with
the developing nations of the world, it's
not the President who's done it; it's not
even the Congress who has done it; it's
you, who represent the families and the
communities and the towns and cities and
counties and States throughout our Na-
tion, that never yield, in spite of disap-
pointing news-sometimes, even embar-
rassments coming out of Washington, in
your commitment to a finer and greater
America.
And I feel a personal sense of grati-
fication to each one of you. And I feel the
assurance of future success, because that
partnership is sound and because your
hopes, your commitments, your unselfish-
ness, your understanding is unvarying.
And as President of the United States, as
the titular head of the Democratic Party,
I thank you, one and all, from the bottom
of my heart.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:19 a.m. in the
Holiday Hall at the Rivermont Holiday Inn.
Memphis, Tennessee
Question-and-Answer Session at the National
Democratic Conference Workshop on Defense
Policies and Arms Control. December 9, 1978
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Mr. President,
in behalf of the delegates and guests,
press, and those present, we certainly
welcome you to this panel. I would want
to know, sir, will you have a statement?
The other panelists have made a brief
statement. If not, we would proceed with
questions.
THE PRESIDENT. I think, not knowing
what's already been said, it would be bet-
ter to take advantage of my brief time
here and answer questions, Dick.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. All right, sir.
I recognize Delegate Nick Lucy from
Iowa, who was in the process of stating a
question. Limit it to submarines, if you
could. [Laughter] Go ahead, Nick.
TRIDENT SUBMARINES
Q. I'd like to commend you for your
past submarine record, Mr. President.
Having served in submarines myself for 3
years, I can appreciate your efforts in
your earlier days, there.
My question was in regard to the Tri-
dent submarine program. I've heard
when it was discussed initially that it was
too expensive, and we could refit present
submarines with the same type missile and
therefore save a great deal of money. This
2198
