July 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
detailed report from Ambassador Strauss
in Bonn. Further advances will be needed
to achieve a constructive outcome. The
President believes the work done so far in
Geneva provides a good basis for progress
in this area at the Bonn summit.
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Heinz
Lohfeldt of Der Spiegel Magazine.
July 11, 1978
U.S.-GERMAN RELATIONS
MR. LOHFELDT. Mr. President, critics
on both sides of the Atlantic assert that
relations between the United States and
its strongest ally in Europe, the Federal
Republic, have reached a low point.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that Ger-
man-American relations are in fact both
very good and extraordinarily close. Our
two governments consult as intensely and
frequently as at any other time in the
history of the Western Alliance. And on
our basic objectives, we agree completely.
Naturally, we may sometimes differ in
specific goals and approaches, but these
honest differences, frankly expressed, be-
tween close friends and allies are actually
a sign of the strength of our relationship.
MR. LOHFELDT. So there is no bad
rapport between you and Chancellor
Chancellor
Schmidt?
THE PRESIDENT. My personal rela-
tionship with Chancellor Schmidt is ex-
cellent. I have met with him four times
since coming into office, and we consult
regularly by telephone. I have the high-
est respect and regard for him as a wise
and distinguished statesman, and as a per-
sonal friend. Our meetings have always
been a source of personal pleasure and
value for me, and I look forward to see-
ing him again in Bonn this week.
MR. LOHFELDT. Do you think that
Germany should play a special role
within the Western Alliance, and how
would you describe this role?
THE PRESIDENT. The Federal Repub-
lic plays a vital role within the Western
Alliance, in close harmony with the
United States and our mutual allies. It is
Western Europe's strongest economic
power, it makes a large and effective con-
tribution to NATO security, and it shares
in the political leadership of the Alliance.
This is not a "special" role, as you sug-
gest, rather it reflects the deep commit-
ment of a nation that prizes its freedom
and its partnership with like-minded na-
tions of the West.
U.S. ROLE IN EUROPE
MR. LOHFELDT. In Europe, but here
in the United States as well, there is in-
creasing talk of an American “leadership
crisis." In the U.S., this crisis is re-
flected in the most recent, rather negative
opinion polls. Within the Western Alli-
ance, this criticism for example has been
voiced by Chancellor Helmut Schmidt
during his last visit to Washington. What
is your response to those critics?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think, the sta-
bility of the Western Alliance is a proof
that we don't lack leadership. There was
a time, maybe a couple of years ago and
before, when the commitment to NATO,
for instance, was very doubtful among
some of the members.
Now there is again a new spirit of com-
mitment to a stronger NATO Alliance.
Our own Congress, the people of our Na-
tion, have a much firmer commitment to
the NATO Alliance than was the case in
the past. And we have a strong relation-
ship with our allies and friends as we have
ever had that I can remember in my life-
time. So, I think, there is no evidence of
a lack of adequate leadership. The lead-
1272
