Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 24, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
November 17, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I'll have to apologize for
interrupting your meeting. [Laughter]
As we've done on many occasions with
groups like this, I generally outline, just
in a few minutes, what particular respon-
sibilities I have today, as an example, and
then spend all the time we have possible
answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The major emphasis that we are plac-
ing on domestic affairs is to control infla-
tion. And on a daily basis almost-even
more—I meet with special groups who
come here to the White House for brief-
ings about the parameters of our effort,
the degree of possibility for success, what
role they can play in making our anti-in-
flation effort successful, and letting them
know what I have done in the past and
will do concerning budgets, stabilizing of
the dollar, reducing the deficit, establish-
ment of priorities in Government spend-
ing, administration, rooting out corrup-
tion and waste, as well.
Yesterday I sent out, for instance, a
very strong and specific request to the 500
largest business leaders in the Nation.
And we are making the same kind of ef-
fort with others around the country.
I'm spending a good bit of time each
week putting the preliminary decisions
down concerning the 1980 fiscal year
budget. Following those general discus-
sions with OMB, Office of Management
and Budget, then I will meet specifically
with the agency heads to go over their
appeals, and I'll listen to specific propos-
als.
We've got a personnel hiring freeze still
on. When vacancies occur, they can only
fill half the vacancies. That will be main-
tained until we reach a certain level and
then will be modified as I deem it neces-
sary.
In international affairs we are conduct-
ing our share of the Mideast negotiations.
I met yesterday with Vice President Mu-
barak from Egypt. After that he met with
Defense Minister Weizman of Israel.
Weizman has now gone back to Israel,
and Mubarak will be going back to Egypt
tomorrow. I think this entire process has
been much more time-consuming and dif-
ficult than I had anticipated, after Camp
David had resolved, as Mr. Mubarak said
yesterday, 90 percent of all the issues that
separate Egypt from Israel.
In a nonpublicized way-not a secret
way, but a nonpublicized way—we are
2061
