July 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
There's no way to distinguish ade-
quately between those who do a good job
and those who don't. And with two people
sitting side by side at an office, one work-
ing hard, doing his job and his neigh-
bor's job, the other one loafing, both being
rewarded the same, really discourages
those who do want to spend their one life
offered in public service to constructive
work.
We've put forward so far, with the
greatest political difficulty, the civil serv-
ice reform legislation. And I know many
of
you are executives-I looked down the
list before I came in here-and it would
be inconceivable to you to spend an aver-
age of 19 months trying to remove from
employment an employee who didn't care
about the success of your business and
didn't care about pleasing you with a
genuine display of interest and proper
performance. That's what it takes.
I had them put this chart up which
shows in visual terms how we have to go
through this extremely complicated proc-
ess to discharge one employee.
The civil service reform legislation
would give us a chance to protect em-
ployees' rights much more effectively, to
protect the whistleblower, the employee
who points out a defect in government
and who doesn't want to be punished. It
would give managers a chance to manage.
It would reward those who do superior
work, either at the management level or
the average employee level, and punish
or remove those who don't perform.
Now we can't remove an employee, for
all practical purposes. The only thing we
can do is to transfer that employee. And,
of course, where they are transferred, that
just spreads the problem around; it
doesn't resolve anything.
I consider this to be the centerpiece of
our entire effort, to reorganize the Gov-
ernment and to manage as President. We
want the employees to do an effective job.
We want them to be responsive to the
American people. That is the thing that
preys on my mind today, that we are
approaching a crisis stage in the Congress.
We've made good progress so far, and I
believe that the Congress will respond if
we can maintain a public interest in this
issue.
In addition to what I've just described
to you, which is my primary concern, I
would like to briefly outline a few other
points just to precipitate your questions.
Cy Vance has had a very good report
to me from the United Nations. One of
the most explosive issues in Africa has
been Namibia. It's been a very difficult
effort that we undertook, to bring to-
gether ourselves, the French, the British,
the Canadians, and the West Germans to
work together with South Africa and with
the so-called SWAPO organization, the
South West Africa People's Organization,
and we've had to work with all the black
frontline presidents who are in that area.
I think that we've now reached the
brink of success. A new nation will be
established, formerly South West Africa,
now Namibia. And if things go according
to our present prospects, we will have a
much greater opportunity or prospect of
resolving the more difficult Rhodesian
question. I have to say that all the parties
involved have acted well, particularly re-
cently, and we are very pleased with this
progress.
SALT talks are continuing. The com-
prehensive test ban talks are continuing.
We've had some setbacks recently in the
Mideast, but we are determined to pro-
ceed there to success. My firm belief,
knowing both men very well, is that Begin
and Sadat genuinely want to bring peace
to the area. Their nations would benefit
enormously, economically and otherwise,
with peace there. If war should erupt be-
1348
