Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
demonstrated by Prime Minister Begin,
who led the parliament debate, gave his
full weight to this peace move, and by
President Sadat who cooperated at Camp
David in making it possible.
Since the Knesset vote, I have talked
to Prime Minister Begin; also, just a few
minutes ago, since lunch, to President
Sadat. Both of them agree that there are
no remaining obstacles to proceeding as
rapidly as possible to conclude a peace
treaty between Israel and Egypt.
I'm very proud of this action on their
part. We will cooperate again as full
partners in the negotiations to conclude
the final terms of the Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty.
NATURAL GAS LEGISLATION
The other courageous vote that was
taken yesterday was by the United States
Senate, under the great leadership of Ma-
jority Leader Robert Byrd and committee
chairman, Senator Scoop Jackson, to ap-
prove the natural gas legislation. This is a
bill that will provide the centerpiece for
establishing a United States energy
policy. It's very good for consumers, par-
ticularly in those States that are faced
with a very urgent shortage of natural
gas
in years to come. It's also fair to pro-
ducers. I think it would make us much
less dependent upon imported foreign oil.
And I congratulate the Senate on this
action. Now the House must act on the
same legislation. I hope that they will do
so expeditiously and expect that this will
be the case.
RAILWAY LABOR DISPUTE
One other report, briefly: We have not
been successful, after 28 hours or more of
negotiation, to reach a settlement be-
tween the striking railway workers and
the rail lines. We now have almost a com-
plete shutdown of rail service in our
country. I have just recently issued an
order establishing an emergency board
which will take over the responsibility for
negotiating a settlement between the
workers and the railroads themselves.
This is necessary action. I think it's
accurate to say that both sides do want a
settlement. The differences between them
are relatively small compared to what
they were originally. This will take the
railway workers back on the job. If there
is any opposition to this action, then I
would not hesitate to go to Federal court
to enforce it. And I believe that this is the
first step to getting our railway service
back into operation in our country.
Mr. Pippert [Wes Pippert, United Press
International].
QUESTIONS
ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS; PRESIDENTIAL
TRIP TO MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, what will you do to
make Prime Minister Begin comply with
your understanding that Israel must
eventually withdraw from the West Bank
and, further, to build no settlements there
during the 5 years of negotiation? And
will you consider a Christmas trip to the
Middle East for the signing of the peace
treaty?
THE PRESIDENT. There's nothing that
I can make Prime Minister Begin do. He's
an independent leader of an autonomous
and independent nation, and I can only
use persuasion and depend upon the mu-
tual trust that exists between me and him.
There were 20 or 30 very crucial issues
that were obstacles at the beginning of the
Camp David negotiations. This was one
of them. And I would guess that it was
after midnight Saturday, less than 24
hours after the final agreement was
signed, that we reached these agreements.
There are two elements of the dispute.
One is at what time will the agreement
not to build any more settlements be con-
cluded. Prime Minister Begin's interpre-
tation is that this is to be maintained, the
1654
