Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 14
1
Commerce, and finally approved by me,
would say that it's a very sound program
based on scientific need and actually
capitalizing now upon the great explora-
tory efforts that have been made in space.
We look upon the space shuttle as a way
to change dramatic, very costly initiatives
into a sound, progressive, and innovative
program to utilize the technology that we
have available to us.
We'll continue interplanetary space
exploration. We'll have a greatly ex-
panded effort concerning astronomy as-
sessments of the Earth, weather, com-
munications. We'll expand our effort to
bring into the space program now both
foreign countries and also private firms in
our Nation. And I think it is accurate to
say that the space shuttle, which is ap-
proaching completion-we hope the first
orbital flights will be less than a year from
now-will open up a broad vista of new
uses for our technology.
So, we're not going to minimize or de-
crease our commitment to space at all.
I think the spectacular efforts to send
men to the Moon and to make the first
orbital flights, and so forth, have been just
a precursor to now the more practical and
consistent and effective use of our space
technology.
So, it's not a matter of playing down
the importance of space; it's a matter of
using what we've already learned in the
most effective way.
THE RHODESIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, you have still re-
fused to meet with Mr. Smith from South
Africa. Recently he stated that he would
be willing to sit down and talk to all the
guerrillas in attempts to reach some type
of peace settlement. Have you changed
your mind about talking to Mr. Smith?
THE PRESIDENT. No, there's no need to
meet with Mr. Smith. We don't recognize
the Smith regime as being legal. In fact,
only one country in the world does, and
that's South Africa.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Sithole came over
here on a tourist visa. They've had access
to the public media in an unrestricted
way. They've met with congressional com-
mittees in an unrestricted way. They've
had extensive discussions with Secretary
Vance, both since they've been over here
and previously in Rhodesia. There's no
need for me to meet with them.
I was encouraged, if it's true, that
Smith is now saying he's willing to meet
with all the other parties involved in the
dispute for an all-parties conference.
What we want is to end the bloodshed.
What we want is to have democratic elec-
tions in Rhodesia with an established con-
stitution based on democratic principles.
We want anyone who desires, to run for
public office, and we want the people in
Rhodesia, black and white, to be able to
vote on an equal, one-person-one-vote
basis, to choose their own leader. This is
something that we've advocated from the
very beginning, and Smith so far has re-
fused to accept all these principles.
If he is now willing to move from his
previous position and meet with the other
parties in dispute, the patriotic front and
others, that would suit us very well. I
think it's also important that I empha-
size we're not trying to force an Anglo-
American solution on anyone.
If the patriotic front and the so-called
internal group of Smith's regime can
agree on any other alternative, we are
perfectly glad to support what they pro-
pose.
I think it's true that all of the front-
line Presidents, the Presidents of countries
surrounding Rhodesia, have endorsed the
principles of the Anglo-American plan.
But we're not trying to force our will on
anyone.
1777
