Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
But this is a fond hope, I guess, of every
politician, to be universally admired, to
have all of your themes clearly defined,
to have everything packaged beautifully
so it can be examined from all sides with-
out doubt, to have one's character be rec-
ognized clearly, and to have universal
approbation of the people that you try
to represent. All those things are hope-
less dreams.
MR. MOYERS. Pat Caddell made a
speech recently in which he said—Pat
Caddell is one of your associates-in
which he said that a President can suc-
ceed by doing poorly because the people
out there don't think he can do well. Do
you think that's true?
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] I hope I
don't have to prove that.
MR. MOYERS. You were criticized, I
know, talking about details, for keeping
the log yourself of who could use the
White House tennis courts. Are you still
doing that?
THE PRESIDENT. No-and never have,
by the way.
MR. MOYERS. Was that a false report?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it was.
MR. MOYERS. But seriously, is the job
too big? Is the United States Govern-
ment, which is a $500 billion enterprise,
now too big to be managed by a single
chief executive?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I wouldn't want
to-I say that, recognizing that no one
person can do it all. But the structure of
the American Government is still the best
that I can imagine. There's a tremendous
sharing of responsibility between the dif-
ferent branches of the Federal Govern-
ment, an adequate sharing of responsi-
bility between myself and Governors of
States and mayors and county officials at
the local level of government, between
government and private citizens. These
balances have been evolved historically,
and I think they've grown to their present
state because in each instance when a
change occurred, tests were made and
the best arrangement triumphed.
But it would be a serious mistake to try
to run a government like this with, say, a
committee. And I'm thankful that my
Cabinet can be either hired or fired by
me. I consult with my Cabinet or listen
to them, but I make a decision. I don't
have to have a vote and go by the major-
ity vote in my own Cabinet. And if you
had, say, a three-person President, one
perhaps involved with foreign affairs, one
with domestic affairs, one managing the
bureaucracy itself, I think it would be
much worse than what we have now.
I like the constitutional arrangement,
where you have an executive with consti-
tutionally limited powers and a voice
with which to express the aspirations and
hopes of our country accurately, I hope,
to the people.
MR. MOYERS. Was Camp David the
high of
your
administration so far?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd say the first
122 days were probably the lower of my
administration; the last half day at Camp
David was one of the highest. It's hard to
say.
MR. MOYERS. What's been the lowest
moment for you? Were you aware, for
example, this summer of the growing
doubts about your competency to be
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there was a rash
of news reports, cover stories in the week-
ly magazines, and editorial comments.
around the Nation expressing concerns
about my ability to run the Government.
I'm not sure they were any more con-
demnatory nor critical than they were
about previous Presidents, all the way
back to Abraham Lincoln; even before.
Each President has been criticized and
castigated as incompetent and dastardly,
even.
2023
