Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
living at peace under governments chosen
and control,ed by the people.
In this vibrant city of contrast and tra-
dition, near these buildings of such great
significance to all who love liberty, it is
easy to take our freedoms for granted.
Here at last, the ideals of the Frankfurt
Assembly are realized.
So, it is a pleasure for us to be in Frank-
furt, home not only of the first German
vision of democracy but of great German
intellectuals and musicians, home of
Goethe, of Hindemith and Humperdinck,
cradle of the great house of Rothschild.
I wish I had more time to explore your
ancient city and beautiful countryside.
Rosalynn tells me that I will miss the best
part of the trip to Germany by not joining
her and Amy on her Rhine cruise from
Bingen to Bonn. So, I hope to come back,
my friends, to see more of the "life, bustle,
and motion" that Thomas Jefferson found
in Frankfurt in 1788-and that I find here
today.
So, we pray for the unification of Ger-
many as the expression of will by the
people of your great nation. We pray for
the continuation and even the further
strengthening of cooperation and mu-
tual commitment between the people of
our two great democracies. And we pray
that through political, economic, and
military strength, that we might together
enhance the cause of freedom and hu-
man rights around the world.
Our future in the United States is tied
intimately with the future of the people
of Germany. Any attack on your soil will
be the same as an attack on the soil of my
own country. We are bound together
with unshakable bonds of friendship
and mutual commitment. This gives us
strength and gives us strength together.
Thank you very much, my friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in
the Römerberg, near the Frankfurt Rathaus.
Berlin, Federal Republic of
Germany
Remarks at a Wreath laying Ceremony at the
Airlift Memorial. July 15, 1978
Chancellor Schmidt, Governing Mayor
Stobbe, distinguished officials from the
United States and from the Federal Re-
public of Germany and the great and free
community of West Berlin:
I bring greetings to you from 220 mil-
lion Americans and a pledge of our total
commitment to you for the freedom of us
all.
Thirty years ago this week, President
Harry Truman was renominated by the
Democratic Party, the first Marshall plan
loan was made to Europe, and in this
square one sound was heard above all
others the sound of Allied airplanes
landing at this terminal behind us, one
every 32 minutes, carrying supplies for
the free people of Berlin.
I have just met four brave men who
participated in that airlift: Jack Bennett
and Miller Hayes from the United States
of America, Roy Jenkins and Keith Hep-
burn from Great Britain. And I would like
for
you to give them an expression of your
appreciation for what they did 30 years
ago.
That was the time when people every-
where began to understand that the dis-
pute over Berlin was not a local issue, but
a great defense of freedom and democ-
racy, with permanent worldwide interest
and significance.
That was the week when the people of
Berlin gathered in mass rallies to cheer
Ernst Reuter and other brave leaders who
declared their willingness to stand fast for
a better, more peaceful, more democratic
world.
That was the week when the people of
the Western Zones of Germany added
1293
