Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
as the State of Rhode Island, and the
largest group of peaks over 15,000 feet in
North America. Breeding areas of the
Great Alaska brown bear, caribou, and
Dall sheep, and of ducks, geese, and
swans that migrate through the other 49
States each year will also be protected.
In addition to preserving these natural
wonders, historical sites, and wildlife habi-
tats, our actions will ensure that Alaskan
Eskimos, Indians, and Aleuts can con-
tinue their traditional way of life, includ-
ing hunting and fishing.
In Alaska we have a unique oppor-
tunity to balance the development of our
vital resources required for continued
economic growth with protection of our
natural environment. We have the imagi-
nation and the will as a people to both
develop our last great natural frontier and
also preserve its priceless beauty for our
children and grandchildren.
The actions I have taken today provide
for urgently needed permanent protec-
tions. However, they are taken in the hope
that the 96th Congress will act promptly
to pass Alaska lands legislation.
Admiralty Island National
Monument
Proclamation 4611. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Admiralty Island is outstanding for its
superlative combination of scientific and
historic objects. Admiralty Island contains
unique resources of scientific interest
which need protection to assure continued
opportunities for study.
Admiralty Island has been continuously
inhabited by Tlingit Indians for approxi-
mately 10,000 years. Archeological sites
and objects are plentiful in the areas of
Angoon, Chaik Bay, Whitewater Bay and
other bays and inlets on the island. These
resources provide historical documenta-
tion of continuing value for study. The
continued presence of these natives on the
island add to the scientific and historical
value of the area.
The cultural history of the Tlingit In-
dians is rich in ceremony and creative arts
and complex in its social, legal and politi-
cal systems. Admiralty provides a unique
combination of archeological and histori-
cal resources in a relatively unspoiled nat-
ural ecosystem that enhances their value
for scientific study.
Subsequent to exploration and map-
ping by Captain George Vancouver at the
end of the 18th century, Russian fur
traders, Yankee whalers, and miners and
prospectors have left objects and sites on
Admiralty which provide valuable his-
torical documentation of white settlement
and exploitation of the island and its re-
sources. Admiralty Island is rich in his-
toric structures and sites, including whal-
ing stations, canneries, old mining struc-
tures and old village sites, for example,
Killisnoo Village where a whaling and
herring saltery station were established in
1880.
Unusual aspects of the island ecology
include its exceptional distribution of an-
imal species, including dense populations
of brown bears and eagles, but excluding
entirely because of the island's separa-
tion from the mainland-a large number
of species indigenous to the general area.
This peculiar distribution enhances the
island's value for scientific study.
The unique island ecology includes the
highest known density of nesting bald ea-
gles (more than are found in all the other
States combined); large numbers of
Alaska brown bear; and the largest un-
spoiled coastal island ecosystem in North
2112
