Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 10
eral effort, involving State and local law
enforcement officials in excessive regula-
tion, complexity, and mountains of red
tape-rather than providing them with
needed financial and technical assistance.
Compliance with procedural guidelines
has often overshadowed substantive ac-
complishments. Further, Federal research
and statistics programs have not provided
the types of information needed for sound
management decisions by those involved
in controlling crime and improving our
justice system.
With the counsel and assistance of
State and local officials and of Congres-
sional leaders, particularly Senator Ken-
nedy and Congressman Rodino, we have
devoted more than a year to an intensive,
thorough review of the LEAA program.
Through that review, we sought to rem-
edy the deficiencies in the LEAA pro-
gram, while at the same time building
upon the program's basic strengths. The
Act which I am proposing today meets
that goal: it effectively addresses LEAA's
weaknesses and furthers our efforts, en-
hanced by our urban policy, to develop
an effective partnership among the Fed-
eral government, State and local govern-
ments and community organizations.
Enactment of this bill will be a major
step forward in our nation's efforts to
control crime and improve the adminis-
tration of justice. The bill contains the
following major initiatives:
-It will streamline and redirect the
LEAA program
by simplifying the grant process and
eliminating unnecessary paperwork;
by targeting funds to areas of greatest
need;
by eliminating wasteful uses of
LEAA funds;
• by strengthening the role of local
governments; and
• by increasing community and neigh-
borhood participation in program
decisions.
-It will also consolidate within the
Department of Justice
civil and criminal research efforts in
a new National Institute of Justice;
and
• civil and criminal statistical pro-
grams in a new Bureau of Justice
Statistics.
LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE
ADMINISTRATION
ELIMINATING PAPERWORK
The current statute authorizing LEAA
imposes 25 broad planning requirements.
Implementation of these requirements
has resulted in annual State plans of un-
certain value and extraordinary length.
Each year, State plans total about 55,000
pages often filled with needless and re-
history, about 500 plans filling some one-
petitive narrative. Over the program's
half million pages have been submitted
to LEAA. Countless staff time has been
devoted to plan development and review
at the Federal, State and local level.
My proposal will reverse this trend.
Statutorily mandated requirements re-
garding content of plans will be reduced
from 25 to 8. Annual State plans-now
averaging about 1,000 pages—will be
replaced by simplified applications sub-
mitted once every three years. This
change alone will decrease paperwork by
as much as 75 percent.
In addition, under the Act, major lo-
cal government units will be able to sub-
mit single applications for funding of all
projects covering a three-year period.
The impact of this change will be signif-
icant. Presently, cities like Atlanta, Den-
ver, Detroit, Chicago, Los Angeles and
Newark fill out on the average 40 proj-
ect applications each year. Under the Act,
they will be required to complete only
one.
1247
