Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
cient religious and social customs as Iran any inclination to be involved in the in-
has become modern.
MR. MOYERS. But he was also criti-
cized, Mr. President, for running a police
state-political prisoners-
The President. That's exactly right. I
think the Shah has had that criticism,
sometimes perhaps justified-I don't know
the details of it. But I think there's no
doubt that Iran has made great social
progress and has moved toward a freer
expression of people. Even in recent
months, for instance, the Shah has au-
thorized or directed, I guess, the parlia-
ment to have all of its deliberations open
and televised, something that we don't
even do in our country here.
MR. MOYERS. You think this is all too
late?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope not. I
don't know what will come eventually. I
would hope that a coalition government
could be formed rapidly. At the present
time there's a quasi-military government.
The Shah has reconfirmed his commit-
ment to have open and democratic elec-
tions, maybe within 6 months or 8 months.
I hope that would be possible.
Our inclination is for the Iranian peo-
ple to have a clear expression of their own
views and to have a government intact in
Iran that accurately expresses a majority
view in Iran.
MR. MOYERS. But can we do anything
to encourage that, or are our hands tied?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we don't try to in-
terfere in the internal affairs of Iran.
MR. MOYERS. We did put the Shah in,
but you're saying we can't keep him in.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a deci-
sion to be made by the people of that
country.
MR. MOYERS. Does it hurt you some-
times to have to sit back and do nothing
when you know there are large stakes in a
part of the world beyond your influence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we don't have
ternal affairs of another country unless
our own security should be directly
threatened. And that's a philosophy that I
have espoused ever since I've been in the
national political realm.
I just think we've learned our lessons
the hard way, in Vietnam and in other
instances, and we've tried to be loyal to
our allies and loyal to our friends, to en-
courage one person-one vote, majority
rule, the democratic processes, the pro-
tection of human rights. Obviously, we
have not always succeeded in encourag-
ing other people to measure up to our
own standards, but I think we've been
consistent in our effort.
MR. MOYERS. But this is again where
some criticism arises in some circles in
this country, who say the Soviets have a
stake in what happens in Iran and they
are free to move clandestinely or any
other way that they wish. But if we take
the position that you're espousing, we'll
sit back and do nothing when we should
be in there covertly or clandestinely or
overtly, taking a tough stand, saying that
we may not like the Shah but we need him
in power. You're saying that day is over,
that we cannot do that.
THE PRESIDENT. No, we have made it
clear through my own public statements
and those of Secretary Vance that we sup-
port the Shah and support the present
government, recognizing that we don't
have any control over the decisions ulti-
mately made by the Iranian people and
the stability of that region. The absence
of the success of terrorism, of violence, the
anarchy that might come with the com-
plete disruption of their government is a
threat to peace.
We don't have any evidence that the
Soviets, for instance, are trying to disrupt
the existing government structure in Iran
nor that they are a source of violence in
Iran. I think they recognize-they have
2019
