Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
years, I've watched with a great deal of
interest the almost unique primary system
that you have in Tennessee, where a lot
of people run and where the one who gets
a plurality wins.
In Georgia, we have a runoff 2 or 3
weeks after the first primary. You don't
do that in Tennessee. And quite often it
creates scars, because those who are de-
feated-and I've been defeated-can't
build up enthusiasm to support those
whom the people have chosen.
I'm thankful that this year in Tennes-
see that's not the case. Every single candi-
date for the U.S. Senate and for Gover-
nor have endorsed and are working for
the nominees that you've chosen. I'm glad
of that.
It's been a long time though since Ten-
nessee had a chance to choose a Demo-
cratic Governor and two Democratic
United States Senators. It's going to re-
quire a lot of work. Many of you have
already helped. You wouldn't be here at
this particular fairly exclusive meeting
had
you not had a deep commitment to
the Democratic Party and what it stands
for and if you were not supporting the
candidates who are waging such a tough
battle for election.
The Republican nominees are formid-
able, they are well known, they are well
financed. Had I let characteristics like
those make much of an impression on me,
I would never have entered 30 primaries,
and I would never have gotten the nomi-
nation and been elected for President.
We know that in the last few days of a
campaign, the candidate who can con-
vince the people that he or she is closest
to them is dependent upon them for the
election success and will serve them and
rely on them after they are in office. Those
are the candidates who win.
There have been an enormous number
of upset victories in our Nation the last
3 or 4 years. You've seen them all over
the country. And that's the reason, be-
cause people have gotten doubtful about
those who are proud, those who are aloof,
those who forget about a particular con-
stituency and cast their lot on a nation-
wide basis; those who might forget that
their unique responsibility is, first of all,
to be an American, yes, but secondly, to
represent Tennessee.
In the last two or three decades in the
South, Democrats have been afflicted by
an undeserved reputation that Republi-
cans are more fiscally responsible, are
better managers, and are more attuned to
competence and efficiency. That reputa-
tion has now changed. Had it not been
changing, I would never have been
elected President.
But I ran my campaign talking about
zero-based budgeting, cutting down the
Federal deficit, cutting the size of the Fed-
eral work force; getting Government's
nose out of private people's business; mak-
ing sure that the free enterprise system
had an opportunity to be stronger even
than it already is; putting my confidence
in
government at the lowest possible level,
closest to the people, rather than concen-
trating it in Washington.
Of course, I also talked about a strong
defense; also talked about better lives for
farmers and talked about peace. But now
we've changed that earlier reputation,
and I noticed with a Gallup poll this
summer that by a 2-to-1 margin the peo-
ple of our country now believe that the
most fiscally responsible party is not the
Republicans, but the Democrats.
I believe now you have an opportunity
to put a man in the Governor's office who
will maintain competence, efficiency,
dynamism, who understands the distinc-
tion that ought to be drawn between gov-
ernment and the private sector; who un-
derstands the problems of working peo-
1863
