Sept. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mittee in the Senate. He's familiar with
the congressional aspect of that question.
But whatever we might do in the fu-
ture, it would be short of any mandatory
wage or price controls, and it would be
carefully worked out if things should get
worse on inflation so that the interests of
working people and consumers would be
protected. I don't have anything to pre-
dict for you, because we don't have any
plans along those lines.
Let me say this in closing: I'm very
grateful that you would come here to talk
to me and from your questions let me
learn what matters are of interest to you.
So far as I know, in almost every in-
stance the proposals that we have made
to the Congress have been compatible
with the desires of your organizations
whom you represent. We've worked in
close harmony, and we've not always been
successful, as you know.
I was quite disappointed that the labor
reform bill did not pass. That was the one
bill since I've been in office that I sat
down and, in effect, wrote, with the help
of my advisers, myself, every paragraph of
it. I think it was a very moderate bill
which would have brought benefits not
in the future that you all will stay close to
the White House staff, to Jody Powell and
others that you will meet today, and if you
have a specific question that comes up that
you won't hesitate to call and ask.
This is a rare occasion when I have a
chance to sit down with a group because
of the pressures on me of time, but your
opinions are very valuable to me. And I
would hope that in the future, not only
your questions and inquiries but also your
advice and counsel and even your tough
criticisms will be made available to me so
that we can work in better harmony for
the people that we represent. Your read-
ers are my constituents, and I want to
serve them well. And I think you can help
me do it.
I thank you for coming and let me meet
with you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:30 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Pa-
tricia Y. Bario is Associate Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 4.
only to working people of the country but Camp David Meeting
also to employers. There was an unwar-
ranted outpouring of distortion and polit-
ical pressure from some business organi-
zations and some rightwing organizations,
highly effective, that caused the defeat of
that good legislation. But we've lost some
battles of that kind.
But in general, almost without excep-
tion, we have worked in harmony. And
I'm grateful for that support that you've
given me, and I'm grateful for the chance
that we've had to support programs that
you yourselves have initiated.
Our country is basically very strong and
very sound economically; obviously it is,
politically and militarily. And I hope that
on the Middle East
Remarks on Departure From the White House.
September 4, 1978
I'm leaving now for Camp David to
prepare for a very important meeting be-
tween myself, President Sadat of Egypt,
and Prime Minister Begin of Israel. Dur-
ing the next few days, very important de-
cisions will be made by us, working with
our advisers representing three great na-
tions, searching for peace in the Middle
East which can help greatly to ensure
peace in the future throughout the world;
by the Congress while I'm gone, in deal-
ing with many very important issues, in-
1496
