Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
more that the stronger a family is, the
stronger families are, the less role there is
to be played by government. Our govern-
ment spends a great deal of its time and
effort, a great deal of your money repair-
ing damages caused by weak or broken
families.
We have signs of deteriorating family
structures in our country that cause us
great concern. And there's not any inher-
ent reason for it. I agree with a rabbi
named Heschel, who said, "I've never
understood how a father can take care
of 12 children, and 12 children can't take
care of 1 father."
But when families fail, governments
must act. And sometimes they act in er-
ror. When massive programs are put to-
gether through government, the individu-
ality of human beings is sometimes for-
gotten and the sensitivity is lost. Our wel-
fare programs, for instance, in some of
their aspects, are antifamily. They func-
tion only when a father has actually left
a home. And sometimes fathers leave
homes temporarily, through subterfuge,
sometimes permanently, just so a child
can be fed.
In our modern, mobile, permissive so-
ciety, the basic moral strengths that bind
families together are sometimes weakened
or broken entirely. For every two mar-
riages that took place in the United States
last year, there was one divorce. For peo-
ple born in the early years of this century
and later married, only 1 out of 10
marriages resulted in divorce. For Ameri-
cans born since World War II who mar-
ried, one out of three marriages results in
divorce.
Children are troubled. Teenage suicide
has doubled in the last 10 years, and now
the second most prevalent cause of death
among male teenagers is suicide. Births
out of wedlock are increasing rapidly.
I could go on and on. But these brutal
and disturbing statistics are caused by a
lack of strength among family members.
Lily Tomlin says as a joke, “We're all in
this alone." And sometimes we feel that in
a fast-moving, modern, technological so-
ciety that we're alone, not as it was in
former generations-because of separa-
tion of distance-because now we can be
alone in a crowded apartment building,
because our next-door neighbors remain
strangers.
A family is a mutual improvement so-
ciety. All of us have weaknesses, faults,
fears, yearnings, hopes, dreams, ideals
that we can't realize alone, and the sup-
port and the concern and the understand-
ing and the care and, sometimes, the
criticism and punishment in a construc-
tive way help to repair our weaknesses.
I don't know of any man who is more
deeply indebted to one's family than am I.
I've had great political ambitions. I've
traveled widely. And my family has al-
ways gone a second mile in giving me their
love and their actual support. Never once
have I asked my mother, my brother, my
sisters, my children, my wife to give me
their help or their confidence when they
said, “Your ambitions are too great. I've
got my own life to live. I'd rather not give
you my help."
Your great church epitomizes to me
what a family ought to be a church
that believes, through moral imperative,
in strong families, in individualism, the
right to be different, but the opportunity
and even duty to grow as a human being,
to prepare oneself for greater service. The
relief society organized by your church
has brought blessings to tens of thousands
of people, not in a highly publicized way,
but in a quiet and effective way.
And when your forebears first reached
this valley, in less than 3 years there was a
2086
