Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 16
(e) Availability of adequate public
transportation and parking and accessi-
bility to the public.
1-105. Procedures for meeting space
needs in urban areas shall be consistent
with the policies of this Order and shall
include consideration of the following al-
ternatives:
(a) Availability of existing federally
controlled facilities.
(b) Utilization of buildings of historic,
architectural, or cultural significance
within the meaning of section 105 of the
Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of
1976 (90 Stat. 2507, 40 U.S.C. 612a).
(c) Acquisition or utilization of exist-
ing privately owned facilities.
(d) Construction of new facilities.
(e) Opportunities for locating cultural,
educational, recreational, or commercial
activities within the proposed facility.
1–106. Site selection and space assign-
ments shall take into account the manage-
ment needs for consolidation of agencies
or activities in common or adjacent space
in order to improve administration and
management and effect economies.
1-2. Administrator of General Services.
1-201. The Administrator of General
Services shall develop programs to imple-
ment the policies of this Order through
the efficient acquisition and utilization of
Federally owned and leased space. In par-
ticular, the Administrator shall:
(a) Select, acquire, and manage Fed-
eral space in a manner which will foster
the policies and programs of the Federal
government and improve the manage-
ment and administration of government
activities.
(b) Issue regulations, standards, and
criteria for the selection, acquisition, and
management of Federally owned and
leased space.
(c) Periodically undertake surveys of
space requirements and space utilization
in the executive agencies.
(d) Ensure, in cooperation with the
heads of Executive agencies, that their
essential space requirements are met in a
manner that is economically feasible and
prudent.
(e) Make maximum use of existing
Federally controlled facilities which, in
his judgment, are adequate or economi-
cally adaptable to meeting the space
needs of executive agencies.
(f) Annually submit long-range plans
and programs for the acquisition, modern-
ization, and use of space for approval by
the President.
1-202. The Administrator is authorized
to request from any Executive agency
such information and assistance deemed
necessary to carry out his functions under
this Order. Each agency shall, to the ex-
tent not prohibited by law, furnish such
information and assistance to the Admin-
istrator.
1-203. In the process of meeting Fed-
eral space needs in urban areas and im-
plementing the policies of this Order, the
Administrator shall:
(a) Consider the efficient performance
of the missions and programs of the agen-
cies, the nature and function of the fa-
cilities involved, the convenience of the
public served, and the maintenance and
improvement of safe and healthful work-
ing conditions for employees.
(b) Coordinate proposed programs
and plans for facilities and space with the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
(c) Consult with appropriate Federal,
State, regional, and local government offi-
cials and consider their recommendations
for and objections to a proposed selec-
tion site or space acquisition.
(d) Coordinate proposed programs
and plans for facilities and space in a
manner designed to implement the pur-
poses of this Order.
1431
