Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and helps you and helps the country. He's
a man of great dignity, self-assurance,
competence, knowledge, experience as
Governor of your State, and a man of
great compassion. I first heard about him
when he was concerned about hungry
people, mostly blacks, mostly little chil-
dren that public officials had not thought
about ever before. And I observed the
attention that he gave them and the book
he wrote about them and learned a lot
from it and from him.
We need two men of that quality to rep-
resent South Carolina. And it's really up
to you. A few people like this, a relatively
small group in a big State can make all
the difference in the world if you really
care. I care. I know Pug Ravenel cares.
Fritz Hollings cares. And I want all of
you to care as well.
This is a time for us to make a sacri-
fice. We are rising now, I think, very rap-
idly to reach those elements of success and
the goals that we've set for ourselves. I
think that you can be part of it. And I
would feel better knowing that we had a
solid partnership, whether you might have
supported another candidate in the past
or not, whether you've been a completely
devoted Democrat in the past or not,
whether you've ever been active in politics
in the past or not.
There are no defects in this man that
I can discern. I know him well, and I
know you know him perhaps even better.
I believe that we're ready for him, and I
believe with your help, he'll be in Wash-
ington next January to help me.
I'm going to go in a few minutes over
to speak to a larger group. I hope you'll
join us there. I want to talk about a few
issues that are important to our country.
My speech will be brief. I haven't had
much rest this week. I've had to double
up on my trips that I couldn't take last
week and had a lot of paperwork left over
because we really stayed at Camp David
longer than I thought. But there are some
things I want to say to you and to them.
And I just want to say let's work together
to send Pug Ravenel to the Senate.
You'll be doing me, your President,
South Carolina, your State, and the
United States, your Nation, a great favor.
Thank you.
[The President spoke at 8:45 p.m. at the recep-
tion on the grounds of the residence of Jeff
Hunt, a South Carolina businessman. Follow-
ing his remarks, he went to another area on the
grounds where he addressed guests at the dinner
at 9:25 p.m. as follows:]
THE PRESIDENT. I think when I leave
here, I'll take Pug Ravenel tomorrow to
Ohio and Pennsylvania to introduce me
there.
MR. RAVENEL. Mr. President, I'm
never leaving this State again. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. For the last 4 years,
I've been trying to get Pug to come to
wouldn't
Plains [laughter]—and he
cross the Savannah River until after this
election. But I think next January he'll
be making a trip. And we'll let him come
home every weekend or two to let you
know what he's doing in the United States
Senate, representing you.
As I listened to Pug's glowing introduc-
tion, a thought went through my mind.
There is a uniqueness about the Presi-
dency, it's a lonely job. Except for prayer,
you don't have any place to turn. When
things go bad, you get entirely too much
blame. [Laughter] And I have to admit
that when things go good, you get entirely
too much credit. [Laughter]
I was able to spend the last 2 weeks
with two strong and courageous men. And
the decisions they made violated ancient
history, generations of hatred and death.
Both of them took great political chances
in changing their past political commit-
ments-you might say their campaign
promises; they had to violate some of
1584
