Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 25, 1978
International Literacy Day, 1978 concern and dedication to this cause have
Proclamation 4589. August 21, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Throughout our history, the United
States has stood for the protection and
promotion of human rights for all peoples.
Central to these concerns are the political,
social, and economic rights of all human
beings. Our dedication to these rights
stems from the belief that all people
should be allowed to live their lives to the
fullest of their capabilities, that the talent
and character given each person by God
should not be wasted.
Education is one of the most important
gifts our society can give to its people in
helping them fulfill their human potential.
Especially in our modern world, adequate
communication skills are essential. Educa-
tion and training to promote literacy are
central to our efforts to improve the lives
of all people, and guarantee their basic
human rights. Every illiterate adult is an
indictment of us all.
In our own nation, and in nations across
the world, significant efforts have been
made to advance literacy, and bring its
benefits to every man and woman. Our
brought results, but there still remains
great progress to be made. Around the
world, eight hundred million people lack
effective reading or writing skills.
For the past 12 years, the United Na-
tions Educational, Scientific, and Cul-
tural Organization has set aside Septem-
ber 8 as Literacy Day. The United States
has always joined with other nations in
recognizing the need to advance literacy
among people everywhere, to promote our
cherished human rights.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim September 8, 1978, as
International Literacy Day, and I call
upon the people of the United States to
assess and strengthen our commitment to
eliminating illiteracy both at home and
abroad, recognizing that in so doing we
are helping people everywhere open a
gateway to many other human rights as
well.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-first day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:51 p.m., August 21, 1978]
1461
