July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
MR. MERSEBURGER. Mr. President, not
so far ago, Soviet leader Brezhnev in Bonn
agreed on the so-called indivisibility of
détente. Do you think a SALT agreement,
a new one with the Soviets, is only possi-
ble if the Soviets show more restraint in
Africa, for instance?
THE PRESIDENT. We are deeply com-
mitted to détente. We believe that dé-
tente must be broad-ranging, and we also
believe that détente must be reciprocal.
We believe that world peace is a recipro-
cal benefit. The conclusion of a SALT
agreement is a benefit to both nations and
indeed to the entire world. We want to co-
operate with the Soviets whenever we
possibly can, and we are searching to
broaden, not to narrow, the areas where
we cooperate and reach agreement.
At the same time, we recognize that
because of a difference of philosophy be-
tween our two governments, attitudes
among our people being different, that we
are going to be competitive with the
Soviet Union for many years in the future,
perhaps generations in the future. We
are perfectly willing to be competitive.
I think we can prevail, because our na-
tural philosophy of government, based on
human freedoms, is more attractive to
people. We don't try to interfere with the
inclination of nations to preserve their
own individuality and their own freedom,
contrary to the attitudes of the Soviets in
some areas of the world.
We want peace. We don't want to stir
up local conflagrations or conflicts. This is
contrary to the attitude that the Soviets
have exhibited in some areas. We have a
need, I believe, over all this, to maintain
our own security and the security of our
allies. And we are trying to strengthen our
ability to meet a possible attack, either by
conventional means or by nuclear means,
which would be a holocaust for the entire
world, possibly.
I think we've strengthened NATO.
And we look upon these alliances, militar-
ily and otherwise, to be an integral part of
our own national policy. We, of course,
feel that an attack on Western Europe
would be exactly the same as an attack
on the soil of the United States itself. So,
these are complicated interrelationships,
but I think they are fairly well defined.
And we recognize that cooperation and
competition is an integral part of our re-
lationship with the Soviets now and in
the future.
MR. GRUBER. There are contradictory
voices coming out of Washington concern-
ing the United States relationship to the
Soviet Union. There are soft voices and
there are tough voices. Which do you pre-
fer to hear?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the establish-
ment of policy for our Government falls
on my shoulders as President. And when
we find an area of compatibility, coopera-
tion, mutual advantage, we are very glad
to discover this relationship with the So-
viet Union. As I said earlier we are trying
to broaden the areas in which we can
cooperate.
When we disagree, of course we re-
serve the right as a free nation to let those
disagreements be known so that they can
be debated, and hopefully progress can be
made even in alleviating some of those
disagreements. There are some principles
that must be maintained. I've mentioned
a couple already our mutual security,
basic democratic principles of freedom.
We don't try to intrude into the inter-
nal affairs of other countries, but we try to
demand that now and in the future inter-
national agreements are honored. And
with changing circumstances in a very
complicated interrelationship, there are
times of expressions of cooperation and
friendship; there are sometimes legitimate
1260
