Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
gress themselves to be sure there's no
taint of scandal that might be aroused in
the future, as there has been in the past,
with extraordinary, unrevealed gifts, even
from foreign governments.
This is the kind of thing that's now
sweeping through our Federal Govern-
ment in Washington in answer to the
concerns and the hopes and expectations
of people like you.
We've had a chance to build up our
Nation's strength in other ways. We're
the strongest nation on Earth econom-
ically; we're the strongest nation on Earth
politically; we're the strongest nation on
Earth militarily. But we had lost a way to
benefit from that strength. We were con-
demned by the vast majority of other na-
tions on Earth.
When I was Governor of Georgia, when
I was a candidate for President, I used
to flinch every year at this time when the
United Nations General Assembly con-
vened, because I knew that scores, more
than a hundred other nations, would make
us the butt of their jokes, the target of
their attacks, condemning us in resolu-
tion after resolution because we ourselves,
as a government, had betrayed what our
Nation formerly stood for.
And now in the last 2 years, and as the
General Assembly convenes next week,
we've not seen a condemnation by the
poor and the black and the brown and
the yellow and the weak and the new na-
tions of the world. We enjoy not only
their respect, we enjoy their friendship
and their support. It's a brand new change
in international affairs that brings us rich
dividends. It hasn't been easy to bring it
about, but it's been brought about because
you have confidence in us, and we try not
to betray that confidence.
Some of the things we've undertaken
have been very difficult. They've cost us
politically. For 14 years, under four dif-
ferent Presidents, we had tried to ham-
mer out a reasonable solution to the Pan-
ama Canal question. And most of my
predecessors had been reluctant to bring
it to a conclusion because I know that a
year and a half ago, only 8 percent of the
American people favored a treaty with
Panama. And it was hard for us to see the
condemnation that fell on our Nation,
because we were still looked upon by many
as a colonial power who had imposed its
will on a tiny nation and who felt that
after Watergate, after Vietnam, we had
to keep a demonstration of our power
somewhat as a bully.
But we worked out an equitable ar-
rangement. And now we have a clean
slate in Latin America, and people there
are beginning to look on us not as a big
brother handing out financial favors, but
as a partner for the future.
And we've strengthened the principles
of democracy. We've also restored enough
strength within many of those weak coun-
tries where communism can't creep in and
take over. And we're seeing many coun-
tries look to us now for guidance that
didn't before. They're turning to us with
open arms and an open heart. This is not
a highly publicized evolutionary develop-
ment, but it's very significant in the fu-
ture of our country, because those people
who live in our hemisphere are more im-
portant to us than we are to them.
And I think this is the kind of new
image that our Nation has long deserved,
but long lacked. We do have an invest-
ment in our own hemisphere. But there
are other aspects of our lives that have
changed. We are no longer the best friend
of every scurrilous, totalitarian govern-
ment on Earth. We're now understand-
ing, as best we can, the motivations of
people everywhere.
peo-
We have raised again, once for the
ple of the world to see, a banner of basic-
human rights. And as long as you have
let me be in the White House, and as long
1623
