Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
cumstances and Israel, who obviously
wants a stable government, stable people
on their northern border.
Other countries more removed geo-
graphically also have an intense interest
and influence in Lebanon. I would say
two of them would be Saudi Arabia and
Egypt.
More distantly, other countries that
have a direct historical interest, like the
United States and France, would be in-
volved. All this could be done under the
aegis of the United Nations.
But I think it's time for us to take joint
action to call a conference of those who
are involved, primarily the people who
live in Lebanon, the different factions
there, and try to reach some solution that
may involve a new charter for Lebanon.
I'm not in favor of a partitioned Leb-
anon. I'd like to see a unified Lebanon,
at peace, with a strong enough central
government to control the situation there
and protect its own people.
PRESIDENTIAL VETOES AND INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, I understand that
you're considering vetoing the public
works/water projects bill and, in addition
to that, that you're considering vetoing
four other bills-tuition tax credit, surface
transportation, tax cut bill, and Labor-
HEW. Can you tell us, is this part of your
anti-inflation program? Will you veto the
bills? Or is this a President Carter who
has come down from Camp David and is
now trying to show that he can handle
his own Congress as well as the Israelis
and the Egyptians?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to show
that I can handle the Congress. What I
want to do is to work in harmony with
the Congress. I think we've done that to
a substantial degree, a provable degree.
The legislation to which you refer causes
me deep concern, because some of it is
wasteful, some of it has elements in it
which I consider to be unconstitutional.
And my own objection to certain features
of that legislation has been well known to
the Congress and also to the public.
The public works bill has now passed
the conference committee, and both the
House and Senate have adopted the con-
ference report. This bill in its present form
is completely unacceptable to me. And I
will decide whether or not to veto it when
it gets to my desk. It's up to the leaders of
the Congress to decide when to submit it
to me. My objection to some of its features
are well known.
I think that we have got to establish
a policy in Washington, the Congress and
I, particularly in these crucial days when
inflation is our number one concern, at
least on the domestic scene, that will be
an example for the rest of the Nation to
follow.
If we continue the age-old policy of
porkbarrel allocations in the public works
bill, this is a horrible example to set for
the rest of the country. It would make it
very difficult for me to control inflation
if the Congress and I couldn't set a good
example for the rest of the Nation. So, I'm
willing to meet the Congress on this
issue-we have an honest difference of
opinion with some of the Members of the
Congress—and have it resolved in a con-
stitutional and appropriate way.
If it involves a veto, the Congress has a
right to express their displeasure by at-
tempting to override my veto. I'm going
to do the best I can, if I do veto the bill,
to get enough votes to sustain my veto.
There have been some allegations made
that the Congress might try to connect
this bill with the energy bill. I don't be-
lieve they will do that. The proper way
for the Congress to express its displeasure
over the veto of the public works bill is
to try to override the veto. I believe the
energy legislation is too important for any
responsible Member of the House of Rep-
1659
