Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
MR. DEBUTTS. Ladies and gentlemen,
I asked the President if I could take a
moment to say something to you. I can-
not say it to you as the chairman of the
Business Council, because, by tradition,
we in the Business Council do not take
positions on anything. However, I would
like to say just a word to you, not as the
chairman of the council, but as the chair-
man of AT&T and a businessman and, I
hope, a peer of yours.
We all realize that inflation is the big-
gest problem we have in this country. We
all recognize that the solution to inflation
is going to require exerted effort on the
part of government to reduce their own
expenditures, as well as the regulations
that impose expenditures on us, labor,
and also business. There are some ques-
tions about the possible success of the
President's program, the wage guideline,
voluntary program. I happen to think that
the alternatives to the success of that pro-
gram are far worse-possible mandatory
controls. I happen to believe that that
program will work, but it only will work
if all three of those groups are willing to
cooperate and support it.
I happen to believe that the President
is sincere and will succeed in his efforts,
insofar as government expenditures and
reduction of regulatory pressures on us
are concerned. I don't know about labor,
although one labor leader has spoken out
in favor of it. But I believe that it's in-
cumbent upon us in the business com-
munity, and I urge each and every one of
you to look at this thing as carefully as
you can and find a way to comply with
the standards established by our Presi-
dent. I think that's the greatest contribu-
tion that we can make to solve the prob-
lem, and I hope you'll do it.
And now the President has graciously
offered to answer questions from the floor
for a few moments. So, it's your program.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that I be-
lieve that labor will cooperate. That's my
conviction and also my determination.
But it's incumbent on me, first of all, to
prove that, as President, I will do what I
said I was going to do, and you can de-
pend on that. I'm going to adhere to my
published goals on controlling the deficit,
on having a tight, tough, competent
budget. I'm going to maintain the mili-
tary strength of our Nation, and I'm going
to meet the social needs of our country as
well. I think the Congress will cooperate.
And the second thing that labor will be
watching very closely is if the business
community comes forward with an en-
thusiastic endorsement proven through
action that you are part of the team.
Many labor leaders have already come
forward to ask how they can help, and
we've got some that are doubting. But
there's no doubt in my mind that if busi-
ness and government show that we mean
to carry out the anti-inflation program,
this will be the greatest incentive possible
to bringing labor on board, and my pre-
diction is that they will come on board.
QUESTIONS
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Q. Mr. President, the press has reported
that the administration is giving consid-
eration to eliminating the Department of
Commerce. This, of course, is disturbing
to many in the business community. And
I wonder if you'd care to comment on this,
sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't have any
plans to eliminate the Department of
Commerce. We will be exploring every
opportunity to consolidate programs to
make them more efficient and perhaps to
shift major programs from one depart-
ment to another. There's a limit on what
I can do as President under the reorga-
nization authority, and I hate to foreclose
2239
