Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 20
Government, that would certainly not
come under the categorization of a polit-
ical prisoner. What we deplore in the So-
viet Union is the prosecution of persons
who speak out, even in accordance with
international agreements that have been
signed by the country involved.
I might add very quickly that the So-
viet Union is not the only country guilty of
that.
DR. BOURNE
Q. I, too, have a question about the
Bourne case, which does not touch on the
allegations against him. And it is simply
this: whether you agree with Dr. Bourne,
as he stated in his letter of resignation,
that the attacks on him were really de-
signed to harm you through him.
THE PRESIDENT. I would prefer not to
answer that question.
THE PRESIDENT'S FINANCES
Q. There have been some published
analyses that you've lost somewhere in
the neighborhood of $300,000 in your in-
terest in your warehouse firms. If those al-
legations or analyses are true, are you
considering replacing your friend, Mr.
Kirbo, as trustee? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I would rather have
made a profit on the warehouse last year.
When I was sworn in as President, I
agreed with the public and Mr. Kirbo
and others that I would not become even
knowledgeable about the details of the
operation of my former businesses. And
I don't know what caused the loss. I am
authorized to sign the tax return, which
showed the loss, but I'm not contemplat-
ing changing the trustee.
MARIJUANA
Q. Dr. Bourne, about 6 months ago,
helped initiate a report of the National
Institute on Drug Abuse that said para-
quat, one of at least 13 herbicides being
used on marijuana in Mexico, caused
lung fibrosis when smoked by marijuana
consumers here in the United States. The
report went on to say that maybe we
should halt this spraying program.
Right now in the Congress, Senator
Percy has a bill which would outlaw the
future expenditures of money, men, or
DEA material to Mexico to spray mari-
juana which is later harvested, brought
to the United States, and smoked. My
question, sir: Are you willing to support
Senator Percy in stopping the spraying of
paraquat and other herbicides on mari-
juana in Mexico?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
the bill. My understanding is that Amer-
ican money is not used to purchase the
paraquat. I think Mexico buys this ma-
terial from other countries, and they use
their own personnel to spray it with. My
preference is that marijuana not be
grown nor smoked. It's an illegal-
Q. What about the $13 million a year
that's being channeled into Mexico now
that's being used with the helicopters to
go out and spray the fields, or DEA, Drug
Enforcement Administration intelligence
that goes out to help eradicate these
fields?
THE PRESIDENT. I favor this relation-
ship with Mexico. When I came into of-
fice, about 75 percent, for instance, of all
the heroin used in our country was com-
ing from Mexico. Because of the work of
Dr. Bourne and the officials at the DEA,
the drug enforcement agency, we and the
new President and officials of Mexico,
President López Portillo, we've mounted
a very successful campaign, and now
we've almost stopped the flow of heroin,
for instance, from Mexico into
country.
Marijuana happens to be an illicit drug
that's included under the overall drug
control program, and I favor this pro-
gram very strongly.
1329
