Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
being the Egyptian sun god, and as you
know, shalom being the word for peace.
This, I think, vividly demonstrates that
we on Earth have a responsibility to unify
the people of the world in peace and
harmony and preserve the life of those
that were observed so distantly by the
astronauts from the Moon.
Space has brought us a great deal of
human knowledge and also a great deal
of technical knowledge. It may also have
brought us a measure of wisdom. Today
we celebrate the accomplishments of the
past in the spirit of the men we honor;
we also look toward the future, a future
that is as exciting as anything that has
gone on before.
The first great era of the space age is
over; the second is about to begin. It
will come into its own with the new space
shuttle, the heart of our new space trans-
portation system, when it becomes opera-
tional. With its ability to lift a payload
of up to 32 tons into orbit on mission after
mission, the shuttle will give us a regular,
frequent, and economical access to space.
Like the sea, the land, and the air, space
will become an environment in which
human beings can live and work for the
welfare of their own species.
Paradoxically, the most exciting thing
about the space shuttle is that it will make
our use of space in the future routine and
perhaps not very exciting.
The first generation of space activities
was driven in large part by a single, excit-
ing transcendent goal: the quest for the
Moon. In the second generation, thanks
to the versatility of the shuttle, our activ-
ities in space will be enormously varied.
We've invested so far some $100 billion
over the history of our American space
programs. It's now time for us to capitalize
on that major investment even more.
We've already reaped many practical ben-
efits from space. Over the next generation,
these benefits will increase geometrically.
Communication satellites have already
made global communications instantane-
ous, reliable, and cheap. They've brought
remote areas of the Earth out of their
isolation. We will continue to develop
them.
Weather satellites have already saved
billions of dollars, thousands of lives
through early warnings of hurricanes and
floods. We will continue to develop them.
We've greatly strengthened our national
security through defense space applica-
tions. We will continue to develop these
capabilities.
Photoreconnaissance satellites have be-
come an important stabilizing factor in
world affairs in the monitoring of arms
control agreements. They make an im-
mense contribution to the security of all
nations. We shall continue to develop
them.
Earth resources satellites have already
proved their value to many countries
through remote sensing. They tell us
about everything from the location of
mineral and energy deposits to the con-
dition of our crops, from the motion of
icebergs to the health of the oceans. We
will continue to develop and to use these
satellites for the benefit of all people of
the world.
Aboard the shuttle on many of its mis-
sions will be the European-built labora-
tory, the space lab. Scientists of many na-
tions will use the space lab to do research
in all branches of science and engineer-
ing. No one can say where this research
will lead, but carefully selected experi-
ments could yield direct benefits in the
coming decades.
I'm often asked about space factories,
solar power satellites, and such other
large-scale engineering projects in space.
In my judgment, it's too early to commit
the Nation to such projects. But we will
continue the evolving development of our
1686
