Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 6
And at the same time we will continue
to struggle for peace, not only to main-
tain the security of our own people, which
is the number one priority of our Nation,
but also to try to extend a peaceful life
to those who have been torn by strife or
threatened with even more severe con-
flict in the future. Not only in the Middle
East but in Namibia, Rhodesia, Cyprus,
Nicaragua, perhaps even in Iran, the
beneficial effect of our government's in-
fluence can be a profound resolution of
possible catastrophe for others.
And of course, we have tried to raise
high the banner of basic human rights,
which we all espouse, sometimes forget,
take them for granted because we enjoy
them, then fail to realize how much they
are missed and desired by others through-
out the world not so fortunate as we.
So, the greatness of our country is a
sustaining factor in our lives, even though
we have a difficult problem in making de-
cisions here in Washington.
I think all of you will soon learn, those
who haven't had experience in Washing-
ton, that in times of the greatest difficulty,
partisan labels tend to disappear, and
there is a unique partnership among us
when those final decisions are made for
the benefit of our Nation. Honest dif-
ferences of opinion can still exist. But I've
been extremely pleased, even pleasantly
surprised at the extremely high quality
and the integrity and the competence and
the experience of the Members of the
Congress and also the staff members who
serve and will serve you.
I think one of the most important
things for us all to remember is how the
American people feel, what their con-
cerns are, their doubts, their fears, their
hopes, their aspirations, their ideals. And
we have tried to choose a program tonight
that would bring to you a reminder of our
origins and of the fact that the Ameri-
cans' voices are the ones we should listen
to in the final analysis.
I don't think anyone better expressed
the unfulfilled ambitions of deprived
Americans better than Woody Guthrie.
His songs have inspired us for many years.
I first knew about Woody Guthrie
through Bob Dylan's recordings. And we
have a man tonight, Tom Taylor, who
has studied Woody Guthrie's life. He has
analyzed the impact of both that life and
those songs on the American people. He's
been performing for 3 years now, more
than 3 years, in countries throughout the
world. And he is here tonight-I won't
take over his program-to give us a pic-
ture, not only of the past life of Woody
Guthrie but the present and future im-
pact of his songs, which genuinely come
from the hearts and minds of American
people.
And before Tom Taylor comes to enter-
tain us, I would like to introduce to you
Mrs. Woody Guthrie, who is here tonight.
Would she please stand.
And now I'd like to introduce to you
Tom Taylor. Is Tom here? [Laughter]
[At this point, the entertainment began. Fol-
lowing its conclusion, the President resumed
speaking as follows.]
I don't know how many of you have
ever heard Bob Dylan sing-how many
of you
have heard Bob Dylan sing
"Song to Woody"? Tell the truth. How
many of you saw "Bound for Glory"?
Well, you are very fortunate tonight in
having Tom Taylor let you feel for this
few minutes what Woody Guthrie was
and what his music is.
He was a man of poverty. I think he
was born in Oklahoma, was he not? His
family was divided, and he was a work-
ing man. He traveled in what some of
we consider low circles. His friends were
sometimes worse off than he was. But
he had a sense that every person, no
matter how poor they were, how illiter-
2169
