Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 2
in this instance, especially from the State
and Justice Departments. I particularly
want to thank Congressmen Dante Fas-
cell and Joe Fisher and Senators Paul Sar-
banes and Mac Mathias for their superb
efforts on behalf of this legislation.
The pride that I feel stems from the
fact that this significant step, so important
in our conduct of foreign relations and to
our own citizens, has been achieved under
this administration after years of unsuc-
cessful efforts.
The Diplomatic Relations Act repeals
previous U.S. statutes on diplomatic im-
munity, which were established to fit con-
ditions of 18th century diplomacy. Under
these laws, complete immunity from local
jurisdiction was extended to all members
of foreign diplomatic missions-from Am-
bassadors to private servants, for any and
all activities, official or private, while in
the United States. Such broad legislative
protection is outmoded in terms of cur-
rent activities and goes far beyond the re-
quirements of international law as set
forth in the Vienna Convention on Diplo-
matic Relations of 1961, now subscribed
to by 122 countries.
The act establishes the privileges and
immunities provisions of the Vienna Con-
vention as the essential United States law
on the subject. It provides a workable
basis for substantially reducing those oc-
casional controversies involving diploma-
tic immunity which result in personal
hardship to innocent victims, who other-
wise would have little or no legal recourse.
The reforms of the act are consistent with
the original purposes of diplomatic im-
munity. They ensure the legitimate, unim-
paired conduct of official relations be-
tween the representatives of sovereign
states.
Two features of the Diplomatic Rela-
tions Act are especially noteworthy: (1)
the requirement that foreign diplomats
carry automobile liability insurance and
(2) the "direct action" provision, which
allows an injured party to sue the insur-
ance carrier directly in those instances
where diplomatic immunity may continue
to be invoked.
I congratulate the Congress on action
in a long-ignored but vital area. This bill
will help to usher the United States into
the modern world of diplomatic law and
practice.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7819 is Public Law
95-393, approved September 30.
Rhode Island Indian Claims
Settlement Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 12860 Into Law.
October 2, 1978
I have signed into law H.R. 12860, the
Rhode Island Indian Claims Settlement
Act. Once implementing State legisla-
tion has been enacted, this act will settle
once and for all the decades-old contro-
versy over Indian claims in Rhode Island,
particularly in the town of Charlestown.
Most importantly, this law resolves those
claims in the best possible way-by mutual
agreement of the Indian claimants, the
State, the town, the local landowners af-
fected by the claims, and the Federal
Government.
The need for a legislative settlement has
been apparent since 1975, when the Nar-
ragansett Indians began pressing claims to
aboriginal tribal lands in Charlestown.
Their ancestors had been dispossessed of
those lands during the 19th century, and
they claimed that because these transac-
tions had been consummated without con-
gressional approval, they violated the
1790 Indian Nonintercourse Act.
I applaud the parties to the controversy,
Senators Pell and Chafee, and Represent-
atives Beard and St Germain, for their
1695
