Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
transportation system. All of these provi-
sions are in the bill before me now.
I would particularly like to thank the
Minnesota congressional delegation. Sen-
ator Wendell Anderson serves on the
Energy and National Resources Commit-
tee and also on the Budget Committee,
which is very helpful in passing legisla-
tion important to your State, as you can
well see. And of course, Senator Hum-
phrey, both Hubert and his wife, Muriel,
have been of great help in getting this
legislation passed.
The Members of the House have done
the same. I want to express my thanks to
them. Also, since we are signing this bill
outside Washington. I think it's good to
recognize for the media itself some others
who have worked very hard on this legis-
lation: Senator Stevenson-Adlai Steven-
son of Illinois; Senator Russell Long, who
is chairman of the Finance Committee
and very interested in the Mississippi, of
course; and Senator Domenici; Senator
Jennings Randolph from West Virgina,
who was the founder of the Interstate
Highway System and who's been a very
heavy contributor throughout his own
legislative career, which is distinguished-
which I hope will continue for 6 more
years after this year--who has been instru-
mental in helping me. And of course, in
the House, Bizz Johnson, and the chair-
man of the Ways and Means Committee,
Al Ullman.
But I'm very proud to recognize all
those Members of the Congress, your own
delegation, particularly, from Minnesota.
And now I will sign into law House
bill 8533, which will authorize the future
construction of Locks and Dam 26, in
Alton, Illinois, and make even more effec-
tive the use of the Mississippi River for
transporting your products both to other
parts of our country and to overseas
export.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
We are very honored tonight to have
with us not only the Vice President, who's
worked as a partner with me on this, but
also Brock Adams, who's the Secretary of
Transportation. And I'd like to see if
Brock has a word to say.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:15 p.m. in
the Lake of the Isles Room at the Minneapolis
Auditorium.
As enacted, H.R. 8533 is Public Law 95-
502, approved October 21.
Inland Waterways Authorization
Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 8533 Into Law.
October 21, 1978
Today I have signed into law H.R.
8533, an act that authorizes the replace-
ment of Locks and Dam 26 at Alton, Illi-
nois, and establishes the principle of user
charges on the inland waterways.
Many people in Congress worked to
make this bill possible. I want to express
my particular appreciation to Senators
Wendell Anderson, Adlai Stevenson, Rus-
sell Long, Pete Domenici, and Jennings
Randolph, and to Chairmen Bizz John-
son, Glenn Anderson, and Al Ullman,
who helped to fight for Locks and Dam
26 and for an adequate user charge.
The act I have just signed takes an his-
toric first step by providing a fuel tax on
commercial operators on the waterway
system. Until now, the costs of building,
maintaining, and operating the naviga-
tion facilities that waterway operators use
have been borne entirely by the general
taxpayers, with no contribution from
users. Every administration since that of
Franklin D. Roosevelt has tried to change
this situation. This bill makes substan-
1827
