Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
If the Soviet Union chooses to join in
developing a more broad-based and re-
ciprocal détente, the world will reap un-
told benefits. But whatever the Soviets
decide, the West will do whatever is neces-
sary to preserve our security while we
continue, without ceasing, the search for
a lasting peace. We will maintain our own
strength as a clear indication of our com-
mitment to free, democratic institutions,
and our continuing obligation to our
NATO Allies.
In my very short time in the Federal
Republic of Germany, I have gained a
deeper sense of the fundamental strength
and the mutual benefit to be derived from
our partnership. I believe that we will
achieve the peaceful and the prosperous
world we seek together.
I hope that you will join me now in a
toast to world peace and to the close
and enduring German-American friend-
ship and to the health of President
Scheel. To peace, and to your health, Mr.
President.
Thank you very much. Thank
everybody.
you,
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. at
Schloss Augustusburg in response to a toast
by President Scheel.
Wiesbaden-Erbenheim Air Base,
Federal Republic of Germany
Remarks to American and German Soldiers
and Their Families. July 15, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Chancellor Schmidt,
Minister Genscher, Minister Apel, officers
and men of the Armed Forces of the
United States and the Federal Republic,
ladies and gentlemen, friends:
I'm very proud and happy to be with
you today. To all of you, I bring greetings
and the gratitude of the people of the
United States of America.
I cannot think of a nobler or more im-
portant purpose than the one that you
serve here. You are here in the defense
of the most vital interests of all the
countries of the Atlantic Alliance. Above
all, Americans and Germans alike, you
are here in defense of freedom.
More than economics-more even than
the common threat posed by our poten-
tial adversaries-it is our commitment to
freedom that unites us. We may not
always live up to its concepts perfectly,
but it is a concrete reality that brings
meaning to our lives and which we will
defend that is, freedom-however we
must. At the same time, we will continue
to pursue the kind of lasting peace that all
people want.
For 30 years the mission of NATO has
been to prevent war by being ready to
fight. That is your mission today. Hun-
dreds of millions of people are depending
upon your combat readiness, your bravery,
and your capability.
Those of you who serve in Brigade '76
represent the more than 300,000 members
of the United States Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marine Corps who serve in
Europe in support of the NATO Alli-
ance. As the newest contingent of Amer-
ican troops on this continent, you partic-
ularly symbolize your country's increased
commitment to the strength of the NATO
Alliance.
Those of you who serve in the Armored
Brigade 14 represent the armed forces of
the Federal Republic which supply more
than one-half the NATO ground forces
available in Central Europe.
And together your two units represent
the close cooperation and the coordina-
tion that is crucial to the effectiveness of
the Alliance and, therefore, to the security
of our countries.
Your officers call this coordination in-
teroperability. And after seeing a demon-
1289
