Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
suffer most from uncontrolled or exces-
sive inflation are those who are most
vulnerable.
I know that I can depend on you to help
me. We are partners in this effort. And I
don't intend to fail, with your help.
Thank you very much.
Almost everyone in this room has edu-
cational and professional and economic
advantages, which gives you some flexi-
bility in your choices for a life's work or
alternatives for a life's income. But those ticipating in the briefing was Alfred E. Kahn,
who are relatively illiterate or uneducated,
who are not mobile because of family
or other constraints, those who have fin-
ished their productive life's earning work
and now live on fixed incomes, those are
the very ones who are most vulnerable to
inflation and who need protection most.
And I think the combination of control-
ling inflation and meeting the legitimate
needs of our people, although not an easy
task to resolve, that task is certainly
feasible.
In closing, I want to thank you for
being here. I have a great confidence in
our country. What gives me that confi-
dence is its innate strength. And although
all of us are legitimately and properly
concerned with transient needs and tran-
sient questions and transient challenges,
there's an underlying strength in the
United States of America that gives us
all encouragement and all resolve for the
future.
Militarily, we're the greatest, strongest
nation on Earth. Politically, we're the
greatest nation on Earth. Our system of
economics, based on the individuality of
human beings and an innate freedom and
competition, is the greatest, I think, on
Earth. And we have productivity, in spite
of a slow rate of growth in productivity,
that is tremendous. Natural resources, we
are blessed in every possible way.
So, that underlying strength of our
country and its people gives us courage
to know that victory is available to us if
we only do our part. I'll do my part, and
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:20 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. Also par-
Advisor to the President on Inflation.
United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Recess Appointment of George M. Seignious II
as Director. November 16, 1978
The President today announced that
he will appoint retired Army Lieutenant
General George M. Seignious II as Di-
rector of the U.S. Arms Control and Dis-
armament Agency, effective December 1,
1978. On October 20, 1978, the Presi-
dent anounced his intention to nominate
General Seignious for this position when
the Senate reconvenes.
Seignious, 57, has served as the "at
large" member of the President's SALT
negotiating delegation since September
1977.
Student Loan Marketing
Association
Appointment of Two Members of the Board
of Directors and Designation of Chairman.
November 16, 1978
The President has appointed two per-
sons as members of the Board of Directors
of the Student Loan Marketing Associa-
tion. They are:
TERESA P. HUGHES, of Los Angeles, a Cali-
fornia Asseemblywoman, formerly a teacher,
2053
