Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 17
We also refer to our efforts with respect
to developing countries in the field of en-
ergy as outlined in paragraph 15 and 16.
27. We agreed to pursue actively the
negotiations on a Common Fund to a
successful conclusion and to continue our
efforts to conclude individual commodity
agreements and to complete studies of
various ways of stabilizing export earn-
ings.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY
28. The erratic fluctuations of the ex-
change markets in recent months have
had a damaging effect on confidence, in-
vestment and growth throughout the
world. Essentially, exchange rate stabil-
ity can only be achieved by attacking the
fundamental problems which have con-
tributed to the present large balance of
payments deficits and surpluses. Imple-
mentation of the policies described above
in the framework of a concerted program
will help to bring about a better pattern
of world payments balances and lead to
greater stability in international
change markets. This stability will in turn
improve confidence and the environment
for sustained economic growth.
29. Although exchange rates need to
respond to changes in underlying eco-
nomic and financial conditions among
nations, our monetary authorities will
continue to intervene to the extent neces-
sary to counter disorderly conditions in
the exchange markets. They will main-
tain extensive consultation to enhance
these efforts' effectiveness. We will sup-
port surveillance by the International
Monetary Fund, to promote effective
functioning of the international mone-
tary system.
30. The representatives of the Euro-
pean Community informed the meeting of
the decision of the European Council at
Bremen on 6/7 July to consider a scheme
for a closer monetary co-operation. The
meeting welcomed the report and noted
that the Community would keep the other
participants informed.
CONCLUSION
31. It has been our combined purpose
to attack the fundamental economic prob-
lems that our countries confront.
The measures on which we have agreed
are mutually reinforcing. Their total ef-
fect should thus be more than the sum of
their parts. We will now seek parliamen-
tary and public support for these meas-
ures.
We cannot hope to achieve our pur-
poses alone. We shall work closely to-
gether with other countries and within
the appropriate international institutions;
those among us whose countries are mem-
bers of the European Community intend
to make their efforts within this frame-
work.
We have instructed our representatives
to convene by the end of 1978 in order
to review this Declaration.
We also intend to have a similar meet-
ing among ourselves at an appropriate
time next year.
NOTE: As printed above, this item follows the
text of the declaration as released by the West
German Government.
The President's Trip to the
Federal Republic of Germany
Remarks on Arrival at the White House.
July 17, 1978
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
Rosalynn, and Amy:
We're delighted to welcome you back
home again from an extraordinarily suc-
cessful trip. I think if you asked Ameri-
cans what concerned them most, it would
1315
