Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
long as I'm in the White House, I will
keep a strong defense.
I just want to add one other sentence.
My own assessment in history, my own
political fortunes will be determined by
Americans' judgment. When I make deci-
sions, for instance, on the 1980 budget-
has Jimmy Carter been fair; has he been
conversant with and sensitive to the social
needs of our people; and has he balanced
this equitably between defense and other
domestic problems, between domestic and
international problems-I want to take
that responsibility.
And I can guarantee you that I'll do
the best I can to have a well-balanced
budget and a fair budget. And, as I said
last night, if I do make a mistake, it will
be on the side of those who are most de-
pendent on the Government, the poor and
the deprived and the disadvantaged who
are looking for a better life and who can
only find a better life, in my opinion, with
a Democratic administration.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL.
Thank you, Mr. President. We're alter-
nating from one side of the room to the
other. Sir?
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, ladies
and gentlemen of the panel, ladies and
gentlemen of the audience, I'm Victor
Bussie, president of the Louisiana AFL-
CIO. I'm a life-long Democrat, a man
who has never voted for a Republican in
his life.
I also come to this conference with even
better credentials than that. When the
national press and all the polls said that
Jimmy Carter could not carry Louisiana,
I said that he would carry Louisiana. And
we worked the State very hard to make
sure that Louisiana did go in the right
Democratic column, and we helped to
elect Jimmy Carter President of the
United States.
I also believe strongly in a military
service. I served my country during
World War II, and would serve again,
age permitting, if it became necessary. So,
I don't want to be listed as one of those
that vacillates between the Democratic
and Republican Parties, nor one of those
who feels that we spend too much money
for defense.
I simply want to say to you that I have
a very deep concern, Mr. President, about
your program. I'm concerned about the
workers, those I represent and those I
don't directly represent, but whom I speak
for here today. And I feel that I can speak
for them, because as I said, when all the
polls said that Louisiana would not go
for Jimmy Carter, I said it would, because
I go among the poor, those who belong
to unions and those who don't belong to
unions, and I go among the wealthy,
those who accept me, from time to time.
[Laughter]
And I try to find out what goes on in
my State so that I can truthfully stand
before any audience and say that this is
what the people in my State honestly be-
lieve. And I want to say to Mr. Scott, who
is a very distinguished representative from
Louisiana, that if Jimmy Carter balances
the national budget under the existing cir-
cumstances, Louisiana and every State in
the Union and every municipality and
every parish or county will go bankrupt
the next day, because you cannot live
under those conditions. It simply cannot
be done. As much as everyone wants the
budget balanced, it must be done in a long
period of time and under certain consid-
erations, or else the problem will be too
great.
I'm concerned about the exemption
from the present anti-inflation program,
Mr. President, of the cost of food, the cost
of energy, the interest rates, the medical
care, and things of that type. I'm con-
cerned, too, about your apparent efforts
2215
