Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
ers get those jobs. And we added incen-
tives for businesses which hire and train
those same workers.
We passed a targeted employment tax
credit for businesses which hire jobless
young people. We also included in the tax
code a credit for rehabilitation of older
industrial and commercial buildings.
These were the first major reforms of the
tax code explicitly to help businesses and
individuals stay in the cities and not move
out.
The new surface transportation act,
which Brock Adams is discussing with you
more thoroughly at this convention, will
now let us plan and build balanced trans-
portation systems.
We worked to secure the New York
City loan guarantee and initiated other
measures that underscore my commit-
ment to cities.
And we added a new emphasis
throughout our urban programs to help
rebuild the private economic base of our
cities. I want to convince everyone that
it is good business to invest in the cities.
I'm proud of these accomplishments
[applause]-I'm proud of these accom-
plishments, and you should be proud, too.
I certainly couldn't have done it without
you. The Congress has responded well.
It's just a good beginning for a new and
continuing partnership. I want you to
know that my commitment to this part-
nership remains firm. Together, our prog-
ress will continue. I will not step back
from this job as long as I hold office.
I'm also determined to alleviate an-
other problem that now affects cities and
every American more deeply than any
other economic problem. That is inflation.
I don't need to tell you how inflation
affects our cities. You can see it every
week on purchasing invoices, on utility
bills, higher salaries, constantly increasing
budget costs of the same items. Inflation
eats into maintenance and capital funds,
and with restricted budgets your streets,
buildings, and parks fall into greater dis-
repair. The same thing happens through-
out our economy. Consumers put off
needed purchases; businesses tend to post-
pone modernization; our factories age a
few more years. For every year of this, we
become much less productive.
In other words, inflation jeopardizes
the economic progress we've made since
the recession of 1974-1975, including the
fragile recovery of our troubled cities. It
means that Federal dollars sent to cities
buy less. General revenue sharing, for ex-
ample, has sent about $6.2 billion each
year to States and cities since 1972. But
by next year its purchasing power will
have dropped one-third. Cities badly
need these dollars. And the Federal Gov-
ernment cannot replace all such major
losses to inflation.
Plainly, the future of our cities is at
stake in our fight against inflation. And
just as plainly, the people whom we serve,
you and I, want something done. They
will not accept Federal and local govern-
ment indifference about inflation. I have
no doubt that the American people want
the Federal Government to act. They
want greater efficiency, less waste, less
corruption. They want restraints on Gov-
ernment spending and Government tax-
ing. Those are demands that I cannot
and will not disregard.
Last month I announced a tough pro-
gram to fight inflation. I chose a course
that is politically difficult, but I intend to
hold to it.
The 1980 fiscal year budget will be very,
very tight. I have pledged to submit a
1980 budget with a deficit of $30 billion
or less. That is much less than one-half
the deficit of fiscal year 1976, when I was
running for office. It will not be an easy
task, but I intend to do this without starv-
2077
