Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 17
I urge you to send me your personal re-
sponse to my request as soon as possible.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
November 17.
Visit of King Hassan II of
Morocco
Joint Press Statement. November 17, 1978
At the invitation of President Jimmy
Carter, His Majesty Hassan II, King of
Morocco, made a state visit to Washing-
ton November 14-15, 1978. In the course
of this visit, His Majesty had discussions
with President Carter as well as with Sec-
retary of State Cyrus Vance and other
members of the American Government.
The discussions took place in an atmos-
phere of friendship and of mutual coop-
eration. They dealt with bilateral rela-
tions as well as with major international
problems of common interest.
The President and His Majesty noted
with satisfaction that the centuries old ties
linking the United States and Morocco
are developing in an harmonious fashion.
The two Chiefs of State reviewed the
many areas of cooperation between Mo-
rocco and the United States, particularly
those relating to cultural, scientific, and
technical cooperation. They decided that
the development of energy resources is a
sector in which new efforts would be mu-
tually advantageous. They agreed to tech-
nical exchanges or the exploitation of
shale oil reserves and on the utilization of
solar energy and other renewable forms
of energy. The two countries expect to
sign in the near future a bilateral nuclear
cooperation agreement. Such an agree-
ment, which will be in the context of the
adherence by both parties to the Nonpro-
liferation Treaty, will permit implementa-
tion of a contract for construction of a nu-
clear research reactor.
President Carter and His Majesty King
Hassan also agreed that their govern-
ments should seek to expand academic
exchanges between Morocco and the
United States. They agreed that their gov-
ernments will jointly sponsor a meeting
between academic leaders of the two
countries to recommend ways in which
educational exchanges could be expanded.
The two parties reaffirmed their desire
to see private American firms give their
support in the various sectors of social
and economic development where Mo-
rocco is making considerable efforts. They
agreed that the required conditions exist
in Morocco for a more active American
participation and undertook to facilitate
such participation. The two Chiefs of
State decided that in the near future a
mission under the direction of the U.S.
Secretary of Commerce would be sent to
Morocco in order to explore the possibili-
ties to develop bilateral trade and to in-
crease investments. The mission will in-
clude representatives of the private and
public sectors.
President Carter and His Majesty King
Hassan acknowledged their identity of
lems they examined. For Morocco as for
view concerning the international prob-
the United States, international relations
must be founded on respect for national
independence and for the territorial in-
tegrity of nations, as well as on willing-
ness to contribute by cooperation and dia-
logue to the establishment of peace in the
world. Within this context, the President
expressed appreciation for Morocco's
non-aligned, independent policy, and His
Majesty welcomed American efforts to re-
solve global problems.
2055
