Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
the world. I'm proud that since I've been
in the White House, there's not been a
single American soldier who has lost blood
in a foreign war or combat. I would like
go out of office still having maintained
that record. But at the same time, we have
to think about others in other nations who
don't enjoy the privileges and freedoms
that we do. And also as long as I'm in the
White House, we will keep high the ban-
ner and keep deep the commitment, not
only to preserve but to enhance human
rights, not only in our own country but
everywhere. And you can depend upon
that.
Let me say in closing that I feel a part-
nership with you and a kinship with you,
not only as Americans but as Democrats.
But there's a practical side to politics as
well. You just can't point backward at
achievements, analyze the present for
problems, and look to the future with
dreams. Elections come around, and ded-
icated candidates offer themselves for
service. The primary battles are very dif-
ficult. I know from experience how taxing
they can be on a candidate or one's fam-
ily. And the support and the actual help
that a candidate gets must be broadly dis-
tributed, particularly in the Democratic
Party, to be effective.
You all have helped by coming here
today for this luncheon. You've contrib-
uted money to the Democratic campaign
effort. But I would like to ask you to do
much more than this. Don't go home from
this meeting thinking that you have done
enough. If you are proud of what I've
described in the past, if you are committed
to resolving the difficulties that we face in
the future, if you want to be part of a re-
surgent America and a strong Democratic
Party that stands for the principles that
you yourself espouse, if you want to see
these congressional leaders-and they are
leaders in the purest sense of the word-
continue to serve you, and others join
them like Bill Bradley in Washington, ev-
ery one of you should continue to act not
only as a supporter but as a leader, a cam-
paign manager in your own neighborhood,
in your own community, in your own
county or city.
You have been blessed by the fruits of
our country and our party. You have an
obligation to help those who represent
you and me as candidates. And I would
like to ask you to dedicate yourself at this
moment to doing 10 times more than you
had thought you would do when you ar-
rived-to see how many people you can
contact, to arouse financial and political
support for the candidates in whom you
believe.
I know what can be done if one is ab-
solutely committed to achieving a goal.
And I know that every one of you are
competent and capable and dedicated to
help us realize these goals together.
I want to thank you for what you mean
to me and to our country and what you
can and will mean to these fine Members
of Congress and candidates who can rep-
resent us well in the future.
As Democrats, I believe together we
cannot lose. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. in
the Granada Ballroom at the Boardwalk Re-
gency Hotel.
Employee Retirement Income
Security Act Transfers
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Amendment to Reorganization Plan No. 4
of 1978. September 20, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit an amendment to
Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978. Ex-
1555
