Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
due to the price and volume of import
competition this year.
2. Other importing countries have pro-
tected their producers. The European
Community has established minimum
prices for high carbon ferrochromium im-
ports. The Japanese market does not ap-
pear to be fully open. The U.S. industry
thus bears virtually all of the burden of
adjustment during the current period of
world overcapacity (the U.S., Japan, and
EC constitute 90 percent of the free world
high carbon ferrochrome market.
3. The additional duty on HCF would
raise sufficiently the U.S. import price,
minimizing the likelihood that the EC
minimum import price and Japan's duty
paid import price would divert HCF ex-
ports to the United States. This would
provide the principal domestic producer
with the opportunity to operate at a rea-
sonable rate of return.
4. The recommended relief would not
be inflationary. Market prices would be
restored to levels assuring a fair return
after imports have unduly depressed
prices.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:51 a.m., November 3, 1978]
Gresham, Oregon
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 3, 1978
Governor Bob Straub, Congressman Bob
Duncan, Congressman Les AuCoin, Sen-
ator Cook, Chairman Klonoski, Chairman
of the Democratic National Committee
John White, and my friends:
How many of you are going to vote next
Tuesday? [Applause]
In 1960, when John Kennedy was
elected President of our country, two-
thirds of the American people went to
the polls to vote. In recent elections and
the projections for next Tuesday, two-
thirds of the American people will not
vote.
It's very important for all Americans
to know that the government is yours, that
candidates who know you will vote will
be much more cautious about following
your mandates and desires. And also you
have a responsibility and an opportunity
in a free and democratic nation to exercise
your will at the ballot box.
Yesterday, I was in Flint, Michigan, the
last place I stopped before the great elec-
tion 2 years ago, when I was chosen to be
your President. In the primary in Michi-
gan, out of more than a million votes, I
won by less than 2,000, which meant that
less than one person per precinct decided
who won that State. Last night, I was
campaigning for Congressman Abner
Mikva in the 10th District of Illinois. He
won 2 years ago with 201 votes, less than
one-half vote per precinct.
It's extremely important that if you care
about your Nation that you work hard
enough to get other people to vote and
also vote yourself.
I'm very glad to come to beautiful Ore-
gon. When Fritz Mondale, the Vice Presi-
dent, was here a few days ago, there were
heavy rains. Today, when the President
comes, there is no rain. You can see how
much it pays off to have a President.
I would like to emphasize again the im-
portance of your participation in the dem-
ocratic processes.
It's not easy holding public office these
days. I guess one of the most difficult jobs
in the world is to be President of the
United States. It's also one of the best
1942
