Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 15
for every citizen concerned about govern-
ment waste and inefficiency. The House's
action, together with the Senate's favor-
able vote last month, demonstrates
clearly that the administration and Con-
gress together can take the tough steps
needed to make the Federal Government
effective and competent.
The House's commitment to civil serv-
ice reform deserves the appreciation of
every American. I want to commend
Speaker O'Neill, Chairman Nix, and
Congressman Derwinski for their dedi-
cated efforts, and to especially thank
Congressman Udall for his invaluable
help on this measure.
I urge the Senate-House Conference
Committee on the civil service bill to act
promptly, so that we can begin to imple-
ment these reforms as soon as possible.
National Port Week, 1978
Proclamation 4596. September 15, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since the days of its early settlement, the
United States has been dependent on
water transportation for its trade. Popu-
lations tended to locate around harbors,
which rapidly became the economic cen-
ters of the New World. Now there are
some 170 commercial seaports in this
country, as well as numerous inland ports
on our navigable inland waterways. The
result has been the creation of a network
of ocean and inland ports that includes
many of the country's most important cen-
ters of industry, distribution, finance, and
education.
Ports provide the vital link between
land and water carriers. The port indus-
try contributes enormously to the Nation's
economy. It facilitates international trade,
employs significant numbers of people,
provides substantial personal and busi-
ness incomes, and generates revenues for
State and local governments.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in order to remind Americans of the im-
portance of the port industry of the United
States to our national life, do hereby des-
ignate the seven calendar days beginning
September 17, 1978, as "National Port
Week." I invite the Governors of the sev-
eral States, the chief officials of local gov-
ernments, and the people of the United
States to observe such week with appro-
priate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifteenth day of Sep-
tember, 1978, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:25 p.m., September 15, 1978]
United States Ambassador to
Lebanon
Nomination of John Gunther Dean.
September 15, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate John Gunther Dean, of New
York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United States
to Lebanon. He would replace Richard B.
Parker, who is being transferred.
Dean was born February 26, 1926, and
became a naturalized American citizen
in 1944. He received a B.S. (1949) and
M.A. (1950) from Harvard University,
and a Ph. D. from the Institut Hautes
1513
