Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
chronic problem for our Nation the last
10 years, averaging about 62 percent, as
you well know. But you and I together
have before us a very difficult, tedious,
thankless battle to combat inflation. You
are the leaders of our Government, en-
joying positions of great responsibility,
quite often not recognized for what you
contribute. But still, if we fail, the respon-
sibility will be yours as well as it is mine.
I think it's important on us to assess
very carefully the inventory that we have
with which to work, what Federal re-
sources, what decisionmaking authority
and power do we have to combat infla-
tion; to set an example for others who
work with us and for others around our
Nation who observe us very closely.
We have already committed ourselves
to a very tight budgeting procedure. The
fiscal year 1980 budget will be stripped of
every degree of waste and inefficiency
possible to detect. We've already had suc-
cess, as you know, in cutting down the
level of the Federal budget deficit. This
has been observed and in some cases ap-
preciated. But I'm not here this after-
noon to brag on ourselves. I'm here as
President, as a partner of yours to ask for
your help.
Many of you have insights and abilities
and experience which I don't have. And
I hope that you will leave this meeting
this afternoon with an awareness of our
goals, with a clearer knowledge personal-
ly of those with whom you will be work-
ing; but above all, with a commitment on
your own initiative, without further re-
quest or encouragement or inspiration.
from any of us on the stage, to do what
you can within the sphere of your own
influence to be effective in controlling in-
flation.
As you well know, inflation hurts every-
one in our country, particularly those who
are least able to make their own decisions
because of limited income, limited influ-
ence, limited awareness, limited flexibility.
Those who are most defenseless are the
ones who need defense most from us.
Also, I think it's accurate to say that in
order to control inflation that sacrifice is
going to be demanded from everyone.
Very beneficient, very influential, very
eloquent interest groups will make their
voices heard in a competitive way. And
because you are much closer to the de-
livery end of government services, those
pressures on you will perhaps be even
greater than they are on me or on mem-
bers of the Cabinet or on the White
House staff members.
And I know as well, you in some ways
are part of the interest groups themselves.
Because of the relatively narrow focusing
of your own responsibility, you will be
tempted to be a spokesman for those that
you serve and say, "Above all other inter-
ests in government, I demand or I re-
quest or I will use my own influence with
the Congress or with the budgeting au-
thorities to serve those who look to me for
their needs to be met."
I'd like to ask you to avoid that as
much as possible and to put yourself in
my position, looking at the Government
as an entity and recognizing that the in-
terest groups, however deserving, must be
considered in the overall framework of
how well they will be served if inflation
is controlled.
I can't see any political benefit to be
derived from the efforts that are required
of us. There won't be enormous sums of
money to hand out. And we will have to
be as pure as Caesar's wife in making
sure that the decisions we do make that
require sacrifice, through the most intense
observation and analysis, are obviously
fair and just.
As you deal with contractors and
grantees, suppliers of goods and services
to the Government, I hope that you will
demand of them and inspire in them
2029
