July 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tight budget is being prepared for 1980;
steps are being taken to reduce the direct
contribution by government regulations or
restrictions to rising costs and prices, and
a voluntary programme has been under-
taken to achieve deceleration of wages
and prices.
-The meeting took note with satis-
faction that the common approach of the
European Community already agreed at
Bremen would reinforce the effectiveness
of this programme.
ENERGY
4. In spite of some improvement, the
present energy situation remains unsatis-
factory. Much more needs to be done.
5. We are committed to reduce our
dependence on imported oil.
6. We note that the European Com-
munity has already agreed at Bremen the
following objectives for 1985: to reduce
the Community's dependence on im-
ported energy to 50 percent, to limit net
oil imports, and to reduce to 0.8 the ratio
between the rate of increase in energy
consumption and the rate of increase in
gross domestic product.
7. Recognizing its particular respon-
sibility in the energy field, the United
States will reduce its dependence on im-
ported oil. The U.S. will have in place by
the end of the year a comprehensive pol-
icy framework within which this effort
can be urgently carried forward. By year
end, measures will be in effect that will
result in oil import savings of approxi-
mately 2.5 million barrels per day by 1985.
In order to achieve these goals, the U.S.
will establish a strategic oil reserve of 1
billion barrels; it will increase coal pro-
duction by two-thirds; it will maintain the
ratio between growth in gross national
product and growth in energy demand at
or below 0.8; and its oil consumption will
grow more slowly than energy consump-
tion. The volume of oil imported in 1978
and 1979 should be less than that im-
ported in 1977. In order to discourage ex-
cessive consumption of oil and to encour-
age the movement toward coal, the U.S.
remains determined that the prices paid
for oil in the U.S. shall be raised to the
world level by the end of 1980.
8. We hope that the oil exporting
countries will continue to contribute to a
stable world energy situation.
9. Looking to the longer term, our
countries will review their national energy
programs with a view to speeding them
up. General energy targets can serve as
useful measures of the progress achieved.
10. Private and public investment to
produce energy and to use it more effi-
ciently within the industrial world should
be increased. This can contribute signifi-
cantly to economic growth.
11. The further development of nu-
clear energy is indispensable, and the slip-
page in the execution of nuclear power
programmes must be reversed. To pro-
mote the peaceful use of nuclear energy
and reduce the risk of nuclear prolifera-
tion, the nuclear fuel cycle studies ini-
tiated at the London Summit should be
pursued. The President of the United
States and the Prime Minister of Canada
have expressed their firm intention to con-
tinue as reliable suppliers of nuclear fuel
within the framework of effective safe-
guards. The President intends to use the
full powers of his office to prevent any in-
terruption of enriched uranium supply
and to ensure that existing agreements
will be respected. The Prime Minister in-
tends that there shall be no interruption
of Canadian uranium supply on the basis
of effective safeguards.
12. Coal should play an increasing im-
portant role in the long term.
13. Joint or co-ordinated energy re-
search and development should be carried
out to hasten the development of new,
1312
