Nov. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
recognition. And we will ever be grate-
ful to you for having confidence in us and
in the spirit of freedom and independence
which our struggling forefathers had es-
poused to the world.
Only 10 years later, in 1787, there was
signed a treaty of friendship and com-
merce between the United States of
America and the nation, the people of
Morocco.
These relationships have bound us to-
gether in common purpose, mutual un-
derstanding, and friendship for centuries.
But we still recognize your leadership and
your great nation not only as our nearest
neighbor in Africa, but we recognize your
country as indeed the crossroads of north
and south, east and west, because of the
ancient history of your people, the ancient
and benevolent nature of the reign of
your family and the pride with which you
espouse ideals and commitments that are
so precious to the people of my country.
Ever since World War II, we have en-
joyed the closest possible political and
military alliance with your nation. Our
sailors, our airmen, our diplomats, our
business leaders, our scholars, our stu-
dents have been welcomed in your coun-
try. And we deeply appreciate this an-
cient and also this modern special privi-
lege of being the friends of the people of
Morocco.
You have shown great courage in try-
ing to retain the cohesion of the Arab
world and, at the same time, being force-
ful in your expression of support for the
peace initiative taken by President Sadat
a little more than a year ago when he
went to Jerusalem. He was criticized by
many, but he was praised and supported
by you. And I know that your beneficent
influence in the future will help our Na-
tion, and those others who are struggling
for peace, ultimately achieve success.
Your Majesty, as a statesman, admired
and respected throughout the world, as a
representative of a great people, as a
scholar and a leader throughout the con-
tinent of Africa, and indeed, your entire
region of our planet, we are grateful for
our relationship with you and for your
kind visit to our country.
There is no doubt in my mind that our
own discussions with our advisers and
other leaders and the private discussions
that I intend to have with you will be
very constructive both for the people of
your country and my own and also for
the enhancement of peace in your trou-
bled region and indeed throughout the
world.
Thank you, Your Majesty, for being
here with your fine family, and I want
again to express our welcome to you on
this wonderful day in the history of my
own country.
Thank you and welcome.
KING HASSAN. Mr. President, I have
come to visit you with consideration,
friendship, as much as faults in English.
[Laughter] But I shall try to translate or
to write the feelings of my people and my
own feelings for yourself and your coun-
try.
You have built all your election, Mr.
President, on rights of men, in the time
where you are the first nation in the
world. For us, the small peoples, this phi-
losophy and this policy is very important,
and it is a big encouragement, because
we have no weapons, we have not your
army; we have only our faith and our
rights. But I think that faith and rights
are the best weapons to live or to die.
Mr. President, you told us in few words,
but in full words, the history between the
United States and the Kingdom of
Morocco. My hope and my wish is to
build with you our modern history on the
same level as our old history.
I have the mission to bring on my
shoulders and to convey in my heart the
friendship of my people to the American
2032
