Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
health program. And the last thing I told
him was, "Be sure that when the confer-
ence is over Senator Kennedy does not get
the headlines." [Laughter] So, you can see
how deeply indebted I am to him.
I am delighted to join with you today
in this crucial conference, and I want to
commend Joe Califano, as I have done
privately, for taking the lead in the efforts
of my administration-the lead in the
efforts of my administration—to root out
fraud and waste and abuse from this
Government. This administration has de-
clared war on waste and fraud in Govern-
ment programs. We've declared war, and
with your help we will win that war.
We're concerned with more than sav-
ing dollars, as crucial as that is today. We
must continue to restore and to rebuild the
trust that must exist in any democracy be-
tween a free people and their government.
My administration took office after a
painful and difficult period in American
history. The experience of Vietnam, of
Watergate, revelations of wrongdoing in
our intelligence communities, the resig-
nation of a Vice President and a Presi-
dent, the indictment and conviction of top
Government officials-these events hit the
American people like hammer blows, over
and over again. Each of those blows
shattered just a little bit more the trust
and confidence of the American people in
their Government and in their elected offi-
cials.
Cynicism and distrust eat away at the
vitality of a democratic nation. Abraham
Lincoln once said, "With public confi-
dence, everything is possible; without it,
nothing is possible."
Over the past 2 years, slowly and
steadily we have begun to restore the trust
and confidence of the American people.
But it's not enough for people to have
confidence in the good intentions and the
personal integrity of those who hold public
office. The American people must also
know that government is capable of do-
ing its job. Fraud and abuse and waste
undermine that precious confidence.
Those who rob from government rob
from every steelworker, every farmer,
every teacher, every storeclerk, every
truckdriver in America. Under this ad-
ministration, those who rob from the
American people, as the Attorney General
has so clearly expressed, will be prosecuted
to the full extent of the law.
I do not believe that Americans want
to go back on the premise of a better life
and a fairer society. The heart of America
is too big for that. It would contravene my
very concept of the principles of govern-
ment. The American people will not ac-
cept callousness toward those among us
who are aged or sick or jobless or who are
lacking in influence or in education or in
opportunity. But neither will the Amer-
ican people accept a massive bureaucracy
that is too clumsy or too poorly managed
to do the job.
Of course, most of the funds we spend
in Federal programs benefit the people
for whom they are intended. As a known
or suspected part of the total Federal
budget, losses through fraud, abuse, and
error may be small. But as part of their tax
bill to the average American, these losses
are huge, and they are demoralizing. The
real damage of fraud and abuse cannot be
measured just in dollars and cents, for the
value of people's trust and faith in their
institutions of self-government are price-
less.
If we are to be successful in our efforts
to make government work better, one
myth must be dispelled at the outset—the
myth that the values of compassion and
the values of efficiency are somehow in
opposition to each other. This is just as
absurd as imagining that a physician's
medical skills are the enemy of their dedi-
cation to curing disease. Nothing could
2229
