Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 21, 1978
Anatoly Shcharanskiy
Statement on the Sentence Announced at
the Soviet Dissident's Trial. July 14, 1978
I speak today with the sadness the
whole world feels at the sentence given
Anatoly Shcharanskiy. We are all sobered
by this reminder that, so late in the 20th
century, a person can be sent to jail sim-
ply for asserting his basic human rights.
It is saddest of all for the Soviet people,
who in their time have known war and
oppression; who yearn like all others for
peace and liberty; who have seen their
own Government pledge 2 years ago to
respect those human rights and desires;
and who now have seen that pledge
broken once again.
The struggle for human liberties is long
and difficult, but it will be won. There is
no power on Earth that can long delay its
progress.
completely publicly, the delight not only
of the Federal Republic but also of the
entire German people over the visit of the
American President and his Secretary of
State and other advisers and people ac-
companying him.
We have already worked hard for 3
hours. We still have a little work ahead
of us. The President will make Germans
happy by taking a trip to Berlin. And
then comes another bit of hard work with
the so-called summit meeting on Sunday
and Monday.
As far as the work so far is concerned,
it will probably be best if I let the guests
come forward to make a few remarks.
After that there will be an opportunity
for two or three questions. Then we in-
tend to continue our work while eating.
Please, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
thank President Scheel and Chancellor
NOTE: The statement was released at Bonn, Schmidt, the German officials for the
Federal Republic of Germany.
Bonn, Federal Republic of
Germany
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Reporters Following a Meeting With
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. July 14, 1978
THE CHANCELLOR. [in German] Ladies
and gentlemen, I would like to take this
opportunity to express once again, and
superb welcome that they've given us, an
opportunity for me to return to Bonn, to
revisit Berlin and Frankfurt on this trip.
We've had an opportunity to reassess
and to appreciate the firm foundation of
mutual purpose and understanding and
cooperation and commitment to the
strong ties that bind us together polit-
ically, economically, and militarily. Under
six Presidents, under five Chancellors, as
Chancellor Schmidt emphasized this
morning, this relationship between the
1281
