Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
have been conducted and are being con-
ducted through the news media. At
Camp David, the imposition of a news
embargo, where no statements were made
unless all three nations-ourselves and
the two negotiating nations-agreed, was
a very constructive thing. And I think
even the press analysis has agreed with
that in retrospect—even at the time, even,
perhaps. Now that's one of my most seri-
ous concerns.
When a text is presented to the Israelis,
there is a series of statements made by
them that such and such a portion of the
text is unacceptable and that we will
never change our position on this. And
then the same thing happens in a mirror
image in Egypt, where public demands
are made by different voices there. And
it hardens positions, and it makes it al-
most impossible to present to both nations
an accomplished document which they
have to either accept or reject in its
totality.
You can find in any piece of legislation
the Congress passes one paragraph or one
phrase or one section to which I, as Pres-
ident, would strenuously object. But still
when I look at the totality of the docu-
ment, I quite often, most often, can sign
it. And these two problems are very, very
serious.
I will be meeting in a few minutes,
right after this meeting, with the Vice
President of Egypt. And I met early this
week with Defense Minister Weizman.
We're trying now to find some resolution
of existing differences. But I don't have
any intention at this point of going to an-
other summit meeting. And I hope and
pray and expect that it will not be neces-
sary.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on that,
through these long weeks and months of
the negotiations where you had such a
role yourself, how can we expect that if
there is agreement between Egypt and
Israel-if it was engineered so much by
an outside party, yourself, without a con-
tinuing commitment and initiative by the
principals, how can we expect that to
stand?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I want to make
clear that we've not imposed our will on
the other leaders as reluctant negotiators.
Everything that has been agreed to at
Camp David was not only accepted but-
I think you could see during the cere-
monies here-accepted with enthusiasm,
even with celebration. There was, I think,
a justified euphoria there of appreciation
to one another for having reached an
agreement.
It wasn't something that we demanded
that the others accept. We don't have any
authority to do that and don't want any.
We've tried to serve as an avenue of com-
munication and add our good will when
we can. This would continue in the fu-
ture. I think the issues that were estab-
lished at Camp David and resolved are
the basis for a historical breakthrough.
And to use King Hassan's language, "You
can't make the stream flow backwards."
We've made progress that's irreversible,
in my opinion.
Now, the differences, compared to what
was agreed, are minor, but important, po-
litically and symbolically. Neither side
completely trusts the other. This is based
on ancient animosities, frequent wars,
losses that quite often bubble up to the
surface when you are in private talks with
either leader. And I think that their mu-
tual trust of me and our country is an im-
portant ingredient. If the Egyptians dis-
trust the Israelis' commitment to move
forward with self-government and auton-
omous authority in the West Bank, Gaza,
we say, "We trust the Israelis to move,
President Sadat. You and we together can
use our influence in the future to ensure
compliance with the agreement." If the
Israelis distrust President Sadat's peace-
2043
