Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. And the Mid-
east arms sale. They have a very difficult
issue to decide now about the removal of
the embargo on the sale of weapons to
Turkey. But I found a majority of Sena-
tors to be very courageous and very sound
in their judgment and to make the right
decision.
DÉTENTE
Mr. Lohfeldt. However, the escala-
tion in the war of words between the
Soviet Union and the United States has
created the impression that we are wit-
nessing the end of the era of détente and
the return of the cold war. In your
opinion, is the policy of détente en-
dangered, or has it already failed?
THE PRESIDENT. Neither in the United
States nor in the Soviet Union was
détente ever regarded as a panacea that
would end competition between two
radically different systems, each with its
own interests. But we value it now for
the same reason we originally pursued
it: as an antidote to the uncontrolled
competition between the United States
and the Soviet Union that might threaten
us both, and the rest of the world.
Thus, the United States is fully com-
mitted to the search for relations among
states that will resolve conflicts of inter-
est peacefully. The SALT talks, for ex-
ample, are a partial step toward reducing
the threat of strategic nuclear weapons.
While the road toward that goal is a
long one, the effort is vital; and we will
continue its pursuit.
I believe that the Soviet leadership
shares my country's view of the impor-
tance of ensuring greater stability in our
relations. We continually urge the Soviet
Union to respond in kind to our efforts
to reduce competition in our relations
and to expand areas of cooperation.
SOVIET AND CUBAN INVOLVEMENT
IN AFRICA
MR. LOHFELDT. How do you, in this
context, evaluate the presence of the
Soviets and the Cubans in Africa? Are
they acting according to a long-term
strategy, or are they just exploiting the
situation of the moment?
THE PRESIDENT. In my speech at
Annapolis, I spelled out the basic Ameri-
can approach to Africa: to work for "a
continent that is free of the dominance
of outside powers, free of the bitterness
of racial injustice, free of conflict, and
free of the burden of poverty, hunger,
and disease." I believe that all people
of good will can subscribe to these ob-
jectives.
In recent months, the Soviet Union
and Cuba have taken a different course,
which is clearly inconsistent with the in-
dependent development of free nations.
Yet, whatever their motives for inter-
fering in individual African nations, I
believe the Soviet Union and Cuba will
find their intrusion decisively rejected by
the people of Africa. Countries that
suffered through long decades of colonial-
ism are not likely to welcome a new
imperialism. And it is to help these coun-
tries maintain their rightful place in the
community of nations that I and mem-
bers of my administration have called
attention to Soviet and Cuban actions.
SOVIET MILITARY BUILDUP
MR. LOHFELDT. You have asserted
that the Soviet military buildup by far ex-
ceeds its legitimate security needs. What
exactly do you mean?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States
and its allies believe that the increased So-
viet military buildup cannot be explained
in terms of any legitimate concern with
the Western defense posture. This applies
1275
