Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I haven't found
anything easy about this job. But I didn't
expect it to be easy when I came here.
Well, I mentioned one earlier, the fact
that we have to be very protective of our
Nation's security and cover every even-
tuality if we don't make progress
progress toward
peace with the Soviet Union.
At the same time, we have to explore
every possibility to have a peaceful rela-
tionship with the Soviet Union, to alle-
viate tensions and to find common
grounds on which we can actually build
friendships in the future. And these two
are not only extremely complicated, each
side of that possibility, but apparently
are in conflict.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
MR. MOYERS. What do you think the
Soviets are up to, Mr. President? I mean,
do you see them as primarily a defensive
power, seeking to solidify their own posi-
tion in the world, or do you see them as
an aggressive power, seeking to enlarge
their position in the world?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, to be perhaps
excessively generous, but not too far off
the mark, I think, first of all, they want
peace and security for their own people,
and they undoubtedly exaggerate any ap-
parent threat to themselves and have to,
to be sure that they are able to protect
themselves. At the same time, as is the
case with us, they would like to expand
their influence among other people in the
world, believing that their system of gov-
ernment, their philosophy is the best.
This means that we have to plan in the
future, in the presence of peace between
us, to be competitive with them and able
to compete both aggressively and success-
fully.
But I would say that those are their
two basic motives, as is the case with us---
security for themselves and to have their
own influence felt in the rest of the world
as much as possible.
MR. MOYERS. There is a school of
thought which says that their aim is to
achieve superiority over us in both con-
ventional and strategic weapons and that
we must therefore not settle to be equal
with them, but to have superiority over
them. These are the hard choices you're
talking about. Where do you come out in
that debate?
THE PRESIDENT. They will never be
superior to us in national strength nor
overall military strength. We are by far
the stronger nation economically. Our
productivity capacity is superior, and I
think always will be.
We've got a vibrant, dynamic social
and political system based on freedom,
individuality, and a common purpose
that's engendered from the desire of our
own people, not imposed from above by
an autocratic government. I think our ab-
sence of desire to control other people
around the world gives us a competitive
advantage once a new government is es-
tablished or as they search about for
friends. We are better trusted than the
Soviet Union. They spend more than
twice as much of their gross national
product on military matters, but we are
still much stronger, and we will always be
stronger than they are, at least in our life-
times.
We are surrounded by friends and al-
lies-Canada in the north, Mexico in the
south-two open and accessible oceans on
the east and west. The Soviets, when
looked at from the perspective of the
Kremlin, are faced with almost a billion
Chinese, who have a strong animosity
and distrust toward the Soviets. Toward
the west, in Eastern Europe, their allies
and friends can't be depended on nearly
so strongly as our own. They have a diffi-
cult chance to have access to the oceans
in an unrestricted fashion; their climate
is not as good as ours; their lands are not
as productive.
2017
