Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
any possibility for the future. But there
are no plans to eliminate the Department
of Commerce.
You're not the first one to bring this to
my attention. Juanita Kreps has also in-
quired about whether or not that was my
plan—[laughter]—and I am sure she'll
feel better about that. But that's one
major task that I have no intention to
assume for 1979.
There may be some changes made in
the Government that Juanita or Mike or
Pat Harris, the others won't like, to shift
major programs. I'll try to make the Gov-
ernment more effective. But to eliminate
that Department is not in my plans.
MINIMUM WAGE LAW
Q. Mr. President, in terms of what an
objective is that we both share, that is,
control of inflation, I'd like to ask you
about the minimum wage law. Since 1956,
the minimum wage has gone up 27 per-
cent per year. And in terms of the 1977
amendment to the Fair Labor Standards
Act, it's scheduled to go up another 13
percent a year between now and Janu-
ary 1, 1981. What plans, if any, do you
have in terms of the administration posi-
tion to suggest that we rescind those fu-
ture increases in the minimum wage law?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't have any
plans now to do that. Ever since, I guess,
the last 30 years, minimum wages have
averaged roughly 53 percent of average
manufacturing wages. And there has been
a trend for the minimum wage to lag be-
hind year by year by year, and then all of
a sudden Congress would act and catch
up to restore that rough percentage. There
may be some considerations going on now
in the economic planning group about
slight modifications to the basic minimum
wage law, but to change it substantially
is not in my present plans.
There was quite a debate in the Con-
gress, as you know, about whether to in-
clude young people in the minimum wage.
I have heard the EPG is considering the
advisability of making a change there. It
has not got to my desk. So, as far as I'm
personally concerned now, I have no
plans to do that. I believe the minimum
wage ought to be kept at roughly that per-
centage of the average manufacturing
wages, in fairness to the low-paid
employees.
Stu, did I get the figure right? Is that
roughly correct? Thanks.
Does anyone else have a question?
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Sir, are you at liberty to share with
us the latest developments in the Middle
East, which Secretary Vance is negotiat-
ing?
THE PRESIDENT. I can share them with
you up until noon today, but I don't know
if I can tell you what happened—well,
that was 7 or 8 o'clock in Israel. I'll try
to be cautious, not to say an inappropriate
thing.
Earlier in the fall, we evolved a text for
the treaty itself, which, while Prime Min-
ister Begin was over here on a visit, was
basically adopted by the Israeli negotiat-
ing team. That particular text was not
adopted by the Egyptian negotiating
team, because they were not present at
the time and had no opportunity to do so.
There was a mandatory additional agree-
ment, not part of the treaty text, which
came under the general aegis of the so-
called linkage, that is, whether or not in
carrying out the peace treaty concerning
the Sinai itself, there would be an equal
commitment to carry out the other terms
of the Camp David accords in holding
elections and establishing a self-govern-
ment with full autonomy, to use Mr.
Begin's words, for the people who live in
2240
