Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 16
-For the people of our urban areas,
the Congress enacted nearly all of the
elements of our urban policy and provided
responsible help to our largest city with
the New York City Assistance Act.
—For all of us, the Congress has made
steady progress toward a healthier envi-
ronment through improvements in the
clean air and water pollution acts and a
landmark strip mining bill. At the same
time, it has removed unneeded regulation
in areas, such as the airline industry,
where the market can do a better job.
Because of this Congress efforts, we now
have the tools we need to make Govern-
ment more efficient, through six reorga-
nization plans, new Inspectors General,
and the first reform of the civil service
system in nearly a century. The ethics bill
will help ensure that those who hold Fed-
eral offices always deserve the public's
trust.
Finally, this Congress has shown that
it understands that human justice and
human rights are the irresistible trend of
our times. It helped extend justice at home
with its approval of the ERA deadline ex-
tension and the proposed amendment to
grant full voting representation to the
District of Columbia. It supported human
rights abroad and insisted, through the
antiforeign boycott legislation and the cor-
rupt foreign practices bill, on a decent
standard of conduct for American actions
overseas.
Time and again, the Congress showed
that it was willing to make courageous
de-
cisions to advance our national interest.
History will prove the wisdom of con-
gressional action on the Panama Canal
treaties and the Turkish arms embargo.
The world has already seen the dramatic
progress toward peace in the Middle East
that the Middle East arms sale helped
bring about.
I extend my deep appreciation and con-
gratulations to the congressional leader-
ship, especially Majority Leader Robert
Byrd and Speaker Tip O'Neill, for their
extraordinary efforts on behalf of the
American people. Of all the reasons for
the 95th Congress success, the most im-
portant has been their wise and dedicated
leadership. I look forward to working
with them again in the 96th Congress.
Pope John Paul II
Statement on the Election of the Pope.
October 16, 1978
I add my congratulations and my sense
of joy to that felt around the world at
the selection of Pope John Paul II.
Twice in 8 weeks, the College of Car-
dinals has had to choose a new leader for
their Church and for the world-and
twice they have given us choices which
have filled the Church and the world with
new hope.
Like his predecessor, Pope John Paul
II has shared the experiences of working
people and understands the daily victories
and defeats of human life.
A theologian and a worker, he also
understands, in a way few in this Nation
ever can, the most extreme tests that life
presents. He knows what it is to struggle
for faith, for freedom, for life itself; and
his insight into these modern dilemmas
will enrich, and be enriched by, the endur-
ing traditions of his own Church.
During our visit to Poland early this
year, Rosalynn and I gained a sense of the
spiritual resilience of the nation that has
given the world this new Pope. Of all
Americans who share my sense of warmth
and gratitude for this new leader, Polish
Americans have reason for special pride.
NOTE: An announcement of the U.S. Presiden-
tial Delegation to the Investiture of Pope John
Paul II, held at the Vatican on October 22, is
printed on page 1808 of this volume.
1785
