Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
anti-inflation campaign. We have taken
steps to reduce the Government's preemp-
tion of the Nation's financial resources by
cutting dramatically our budget deficit.
We have also moved decisively toward
undoing the overregulation of our great
economy. We have enacted a tax bill
which will enhance capital formation and
improve productivity. More must and will
be done, but the prerequisites for im-
proved economic performance are in
place.
Recent moves in the dollar exchange
rates have not only exceeded any decline
related to the fundamental factors but
plainly are hampering progress toward the
price stability, balance-of-payments im-
provement, and enhanced climate for in-
vestment and growth which these meas-
ures are designed to bring about.
The time has, therefore, come to call a
halt to these developments. At the Presi-
dent's direction, Chairman Miller and I
are today announcing comprehensive cor-
rective actions.
through a drawing of the U.S. reserve
tranche of the International Monetary
Fund; through the sale of SDR's to Ger-
many, Japan, and Switzerland; through
a substantial increase in the Federal Re-
serve swap lines with the Bundesbank, the
Bank of Japan, and the Swiss National
Bank; and through our intention to issue
foreign currency denominated securities.
Together, this will make up the $30 bil-
lion package.
In addition, the Treasury will increase
its gold sales to at least 12 million ounces
monthly, beginning in December.
The currency mobilization measures
will be described in more detail, and Un-
der Secretary Solomon is here to answer
any questions. We'll have a brief break
so that you can digest this and give you a
few minutes, and then we'll go into the
details of it.
The fact is that the foreign exchange
situation that this program is designed to
correct has gotten out of hand. It must
Effective immediately, the Federal Re-end, and it will end. The dollar's deterio-
serve is raising the discount rate from 8/2
to 92 percent, and is imposing a supple-
mentary reserve requirement equal to 2
percentage points of time deposits of
$100,000 or more.
In addition to domestic measures being
taken by the Federal Reserve, the United
States will, in cooperation with the Gov-
ernments and central banks of Germany
and Japan, and the Swiss National Bank,
intervene in a forceful and coordinated
manner in the amounts required to cor-
rect the situation. The United States has
arranged facilities totaling $30 billion in
the currencies of these three countries,
which will finance the U.S. contribution
to the coordinated market intervention
activities of the four participating coun-
tries.
That $30 billion in the currencies of
these three countries are being raised
ration has already led to a rise in import
competitive prices, which further fuels
inflation and perpetuates a vicious cycle.
And the image of the American economy
and its leadership is adversely affected by
this.
We feel that failure to act now would
be injurious to the American and to the
world economy. Our economy is strong.
Steps have been taken to strengthen it fur-
ther, and the fundamental economic con-
ditions and growth trends in the four na-
tions that are a party to this agreement
are moving toward a better international
balance.
Assisted by the actions we have now
announced, this will provide an improved
framework for a restoration of more
stable exchange markets and the correc-
1909
