Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 5
man rights across the globe, which we
cherish and maintain here in our great
country. And we've restored throughout
our country the confidence that the
United States stands strongest among na-
tions and also stands strongest for what
is right and decent and honorable and
moral. That is the strength of our coun-
try.
We are respected by our foes, our po-
tential adversaries, because of our
strength of arms. And we are respected by
our friends and our allies for the strength
of our convictions. We are meeting the
challenge of this great age, and we will
continue to meet the challenges of this
and future eras.
I have pledged as President-as a navy
man-that the United States will main-
tain military and naval forces which can
never be challenged successfully by any
other power on Earth.
We will continue the development and
the modernization of the submarine-
launched ballistic missile component of
our strategic nuclear triad to ensure that
no potential adversary would dare to
threaten our security.
We will enhance and support our stra-
tegic capabilities with conventional weap-
ons such as this new cruiser. Ships like
the Mississippi also play a vital role in our
air defenses and in upgrading our anti-air
warfare capabilities.
We will continue to dispatch our naval
forces to patrol the waters of the world
and to keep them safe for ourselves and
for our allies. Our Navy, with such ships
as the Mississippi, will always remain a
strong reminder to our foes and a source
of reassurance to our friends.
This great new fighting ship under-
scores our commitment to the security of
our own people and those of our allies, our
dedication to devising and deploying the
finest forces on Earth, and our spirit of
faith in our Nation to the causes which
have made it great.
This spirit of faith and devotion is evi-
denced nowhere better than in you, the
men and women of our Armed Forces. I
know that all Americans share with me a
deep appreciation for your efforts, your
courage, and your dedication. You are the
most important element of our Nation's
defense, and I am determined that all our
service persons receive the recognition
which you deserve.
On this occasion, as we reaffirm our
dedication to keeping those defenses
strong, we must proceed, in the words of
the ship's motto and the State motto of
Mississippi: Virtute et Armis. With virtue
and with arms, our strength will not falter,
nor will our dedication to the ideals which
have guided our Nation since its incep-
tion. We will maintain the virtue of our
country through our own actions, our
deeds, our public statements, and our deep
commitments, and with arms we will
maintain as best we can peace throughout
the world and, in all cases, the security of
our country.
We will remain a nation founded in
freedom. We will maintain our freedom
grounded in strength.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. at
Pier 12, Norfolk Naval Base.
Prior to his remarks, the President toured
the base and then boarded the U.S.S. Missis-
sippi. Escorted by Adm. Hyman G. Rickover,
Deputy Commander for Nuclear Propulsion,
Naval Sea Systems Command, Department of
the Navy, Adm. I. C. Kidd, Commander in
Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and Capt. Peter
Hekman, prospective Commanding Officer,
U.S.S. Mississippi, the President toured the
ship and viewed a demonstration at the mis-
sile launcher site.
Following the ceremony, the President went
to the Norfolk Naval Air Station, where he at-
tended a reception for Virginia community and
business leaders.
1385
