Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sions when Lud Ashley pointed out that
the benediction was about to be said. And
he's been a stalwart leader, one involved
in this fight for many years. And I think
that John, along with myself and every-
one here, has learned a great deal in the
process, has had to modify previous posi-
tions taken, but has believed in the future
of our country adequately enough to re-
tain the true measure of leadership. And
I'd like to ask John Dingell if he would
say a word.
Representative DINGELL. Thank you,
Mr. President. I feel about this about like
I do about the elections-I'm glad they're
over. [Laughter]
Mr. President, you've given great lead-
ership, and we're proud of it. I don't
think anything here can be said without
mention of what Tip O'Neill and Harley
Staggers and Lud Ashley and my friends
and colleagues in the Senate and Jim
Schlesinger did. It was an enormously
difficult undertaking. I don't believe
we've ever seen a larger pile of legisla-
tion signed at one time, embodying one
piece of legislation. The complexity, the
difficulty, and the bitterness and trouble
that surrounded this legislation exceeds
anything I've ever seen. But it has been
accomplished. It is a good piece of legis-
lation. And it is going to start moving the
country forward.
Mr. President, I should advise that we
look forward to working with you next
year, and I should advise that the staff is
at this moment looking into the successor
of this legislation—hopefully in single
pieces. [Laughter]
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I came back from my
western trip, and there was an almost
unanimous belief in the Congress and
among the news media that the natural
gas legislation was dead. And it was the
superb leadership of Bob Byrd, who, in ef-
fect, resurrected this legislation and led it
in the Senate to be passed. With his usual
modesty he's asked that I not call on him
for a statement, but I'd like to make the
statement for him. And I'd like for us
now to recognize the great leadership that
he showed in this.
Another man who played a great lead-
ership role in the Senate, not quite so reti-
cent about making a statement [laugh-
ter] is my good friend, Wendell Ford.
And I'd like for him to speak for the
Members of the Senate who worked so
strongly and so effectively on this import-
ant legislation.
Wendell?
SENATOR FORD. I thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. Being reticent is not true. Bob Byrd
said, "You will speak.” [Laughter] And I
have recognized leadership the last 4
years I've been in the Senate. Bob Byrd
needed whenever I needed it. I think
has given me the leadership I think I
everyone in this room understands that.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, I too, along with the
others, wish to compliment you for the
character that you displayed when you
said to the Congress and to this country
that we need energy legislation, no longer
could we solve our energy problems with
wishful thinking.
And I want to say that at no time was
I disappointed with the effort and the
work that was done by the administra-
tion. I think a group of men that only a
few have been recognized, but I'd like
to recognize them as a total, the confer-
ence committee. You know, you have to
work with people to really understand
their true character. And I was impressed
with the desire, uppermost in the minds
and hearts of every member of that con-
ference committee, that this country
would be strong through this energy bill.
And so, I compliment them, Mr. Presi-
dent. I think you would, too, on the basis
1982
