Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
export farm products in the future with
additional loans for those that might pur-
chase our farm products, with additional
opening of farm export offices to represent
our farmers in foreign countries where
markets are possible.
Mr. Pippert [Wes Pippert, United
Press International].
RESULTS OF THE ELECTION
Q. Mr. President, I'm very interested in
your assessment of the election, and a
couple of specific questions: Why did
Democrats do so poorly in this region of
the Middle West; and secondly, with re-
gard to Congress, how much does the
more conservative nature of the Senate
jeopardize approval of a SALT agree-
ment, either as a treaty or as an executive
agreement? And will the new makeup of
the Senate make you hesitate to intro-
duce such legislation as urban aid and
welfare reform?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope I can remem-
ber those four questions. Well, in the first
place, I think the Democrats did fairly
well on a nationwide basis. We lost some
very key races, some of them in the Mid-
west. I'd say one of the most serious was
the loss of the Senate seat, Dick Clark in
Iowa. But I just rode in from the airport
with the new Governor-elect of Kansas,
who happens to be a Democrat.
I think there was a general expression
around the country of approval for the
Democratic Party and its policies. I don't
look on it as a referendum of whether I've
done a good job or not. We retained well
over 60 percent of the Members of the
House of Representatives, Congress, about
60 percent in the Senate, and about 60
percent in the Governorships.
The election of Republican Senators
and their effect on the SALT ratifica-
tion-I think both liberals and conserva-
tives, Democrats and Republicans favor
an agreement with the Soviet Union
which would limit the threat of nuclear
arms in the future. We have been nego-
tiating the SALT II agreement now for
almost 2 years, even longer, including the
time my own predecessors spent on this
effort. And I believe that if the SALT
treaty is well balanced-and it certainly
will be-it will be infinitely superior to no
treaty at all and much better than the
SALT I agreement under which we pres-
ently live.
So, I believe that we will have a tough
fight in the Senate, as we've always anti-
cipated, but I don't anticipate that par-
tisanship will play a role in the passage
or ratification of the SALT agreement.
I would never be hesitant about pre-
senting any sort of controversial legisla-
tion to Congress because I feared failure.
If I had had this inclination toward fear,
I would not have been able to sign an en-
ergy bill this morning; we would not have
had the Panama treaties ratified; we
would not have had many achievements
that we've already realized.
So, I wouldn't let the makeup of the
Congress, which is still heavily Democra-
tic by the way, prevent my introducing
bills that I thought were good for the
country.
Mr. Brooks Jackson [Associated Press].
DEFENSE SPENDING
Q. Mr. President, as you draw up the
budget for next year, which you will be
doing the next few weeks, you're facing
the choice between, to some extent, guns
and butter. We've committed to our
NATO Allies to let the military budget
grow. At the same time, you want to hold
down, decrease the Federal deficit to $30
billion or below.
Is it true, as reported, that you've de-
cided to let the whole military budget
grow by about 3 percent faster than the
1987
