Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 18
that understanding, I am approving this
bill.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10965 is Public Law
95-473, approved October 17.
President's Personal
Representative to
the Vatican
Designation of Robert F. Wagner.
October 18, 1978
The President has asked Robert F.
Wagner of New York to serve as his Per-
sonal Representative to the Vatican.
Wagner succeeds David Walters, resigned.
In his capacity as the President's repre-
sentative, Wagner will visit the Vatican
from time to time to exchange views on
international and humanitarian subjects
of interest and concern to the Vatican and
to the U.S. Government.
Wagner has been a senior partner since
1975 in the law firm of Finley, Kumble,
Wagner, Heine and Underberg in New
York. In 1968 and 1969, he was United
States Ambassador to Spain, and from
1954 to 1965, he served as mayor of New
York City. Wagner has served in the New
York State Assembly and as vice chair-
man of the Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey. He was a lieutenant
colonel in the U.S. Air Force during
World War II.
Baltimore, Maryland
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner for
Harry Hughes. October 18, 1978
Senator Sarbanes; Governor Blair Lee;
Mayor Schaefer; Congressman Long and
Congressman Mikulski, Gladys Spellman;
candidates who will in the future be
Members of Congress, Joe Quinn, Sue
Ward; Chairman Rosalie Abrams; Louis
Goldstein; my good friend Harry Hughes;
Steven Sachs; ladies and gentlemen,
friends who have made one of the wisest
decisions and who will make other wise
decisions in November that Maryland has
ever seen:
Speaking of polls, I thought until re-
cently that the most famous one in the
world was Dr. Brzezinski. But I think
that-[laughter]-recently, we've had an
election of a new Pope. And when I came
on the stage, I remembered Congress-
woman Barbara Mikulski, and then I re-
membered the Baltimore Sun. And I've
gotten very confused about this.
I do want to say that it's good to be
back in the State that offered to me and
my predecessors Camp David. That was a
great achievement for peace; thanks to
you for making it possible. My esteem in
the country has gone up substantially
since then. It's very nice now that when
people wave at me, they use all their
fingers. [Laughter]
I believe things are getting better all
over, and I think particularly in Mary-
land. As I sat here a few minutes ago and
looked at and listened to Blair Lee, I tried
to think of some descriptive words that
were appropriate for him. I think states-
man and a Christian gentleman fit him
very well.
He's brought credit to the office that
he fills, and he's acted in an exemplary
way-a kind man, a gentle man, a confi-
dent man, an honest man, one who's gen-
erous, and I think, one who's been quite
unselfish and dedicated. It's an honor for
me to be with a man like him.
And I also believe that he has set a tone
in the political structure of Maryland that
will be filled and perhaps even enhanced
by Harry Hughes when he becomes Gov-
ernor early next year.
1795
