Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
FRAUD BY WELFARE RECIPIENTS
Q. Mr. President, it's been reported this
week that some Federal employees who
are on the payroll and also drawing wel-
fare benefits have been charged. It's also
reported outside of Washington recently
that the Federal Government has made
what amounts to a conscious decision not
to pursue fraud by individual welfare re-
cipients and leave that instead to the local
and State governments. Are you aware of
this policy, and do you approve of it?
THE PRESIDENT. When I came into
office, we were determined, I and my ad-
ministration, I think shared by the Con-
gress, to proceed aggressively to eliminate
fraud from government. We've got a
problem in GSA. We've had good success
in other areas, including the rooting out
about to announce some top anti-inflation
measures. How can any anti-inflation pro-
gram be credible when you have interest
rates this high, and do you think 10 per-
cent interest rates is the proper way to
fight inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. The discount rate is
not that high, but I think it's too high and
I wish it was lower.
There are three entities in the Govern-
ment that have a great individual, inde-
pendent impact on either controlling in-
flation or enhancing inflation. One is the
President and my Cabinet members-in
the preparation of the budget, do we ad-
vocate reducing the deficit; do we advo-
cate spending too much.
The other one is the Congress, who
makes the final determination on the
of people who have tried to defraud the budget and also prescribes, to a major de-
Government by drawing welfare payments
when they were on a payroll and didn't
deserve it, according to the law.
My own inclination would be to let the
Justice Department decide whether or not
an indictment and a prosecution should be
pursued or whether a repayment of the
funds with some penalty would be ade-
quate. I'm not familiar with the individ-
ual cases. But the fact is we have initiated,
for the first time, an attempt to root out
these violators of the law and to make
them provide some recompense to the
Government that's according to what is
proper and right.
I wouldn't say that every case ought to
be pursued as a criminal proceeding, to
put them in jail. Sometimes they might be
discharged from their job, sometimes to
repay the money, sometimes to pay a pen-
alty. If it's a gross case, I would favor them
going to jail.
INFLATION AND INTEREST RATES
Q. Mr. President, the Fed's discount
rate is now nearly 10 percent. You're
gree, tax policy. The third, of course, is
the independent Federal Reserve.
My own hope is that our present efforts
to control inflation will be so successful
that those interest rates now, as deter-
mined by the Federal Reserve, can be
brought down.
When I came into office, we had a
budget deficit of almost $70 billion-I
think, $66 billion. By the end of this con-
gressional session, I hope that we will
almost have brought that down below $40
billion, maybe even lower. We're cutting
down the Federal deficit. We have a very
tight constraint on spending. This is im-
portant in controlling inflation.
I'm going to be very persistent in my
own role as President in holding down un-
warranted spending in individual bills
that come to me from the Congress. I
think the time for wasteful spending is
over. And I think if we can show that we
can get inflation under control through
those actions by me and the Congress,
that would be an inducement for the Fed-
eral Reserve to start bringing the interest
rate down.
1657
