July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Wo dein sanfter Flügel weilt."
Mass poverty has been replaced by mass
(“All mankind shall be brothers where prosperity. Century-old enemies have be-
thy* gentle wings abide.")
Thank you very much, my friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. from
the balcony of the Bonn Rathaus.
Prior to his remarks, the President partici-
pated in a wreath laying ceremony at the Me-
morial to the Victims of War and Tyranny.
Bonn, Federal Republic of
Germany
Toast at the State Dinner. July 14, 1978
Mr. President, Chancellor Schmidt, dis-
tinguished members of the government,
economic society of the Federal Republic
of Germany, ladies and gentlemen, my
friends:
We who have come from Washington
to visit your great country know that we
are among friends. I want to express my
deep appreciation for the generous re-
ception that all of you have given to us
and to offer my thanks to the citizens of
the Federal Republic of Germany who
have greeted us so warmly.
It's a pleasure to begin my first visit to
the Federal Republic as President in the
city that nurtured Beethoven-a symbol
not only of German culture but also of
the indomitable spirit of a free people.
There are two great musicians that I have
admired in Germany-Ludwig
Beethoven and President Scheel.
[Laughter]
But Bonn is equally significant in the
contemporary role as the capital of this
great and vibrant nation. The political
and economic development of Western
Europe since World War II is one of the
greatest success stories in modern history.
*"Thy" apostrophizing "Joy" or "Freedom"
in this poem. [Printed in the transcript.]
come political and economic allies and
are together building the future of Eu-
rope.
And here in Germany you have estab-
lished and maintained a strong and a
stable democracy. As the capital of West
Germany, Bonn symbolizes the will and
the determination of free people. You are
a model in a livable world-a world we
can manage, a world we can afford, a
world we can enjoy.
Here in this peaceful young capital in
the shadow of Siebengebirge, it is possible
to envision a day when all nations will
have revitalized cities surrounded by
rural plenty, a day when all nations will
cherish freedom, will understand the
function of dissent in a free society, and
offer their citizens the right to share in
making the decisions that affect their own
lives.
As I drove through Bonn today, I saw
superbly restored old buildings standing
proudly beside splendid new structures. I
think this growing capital city that you
enjoy is as strong a testimony to the vi-
tality of modern Germany as your re-
markable deutsche mark.
The United States is very proud of its
long and intimate association with West
Germany. We have watched with admi-
ration-sometimes with envy—as you be-
came one of the outstanding economies
and the outstanding trading countries of
the entire world.
For the last two decades, your econ-
omy has provided a powerful stimulus for
the growth in Europe. Your policies are
consistently among the most constructive
on the Continent, indeed, the entire
world. And you play an essential role in
the developing economic strength of the
global economy. They are even more im-
pressive-your policies are in the con-
1286
