Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 18
We thank you for those fine words.
When the mayor of Atlanta, Maynard
Jackson, was inaugurated, I was Gover-
nor. And I went to a beautiful inaugura-
tion ceremony; with two exceptions, the
best one I've ever been to. [Laughter]
The entire group of thousands of
people were thrilled by the beautiful
voice of Mattiwilda Dobbs, who is an
aunt of Maynard Jackson, the mayor of
Atlanta, and a native of my own State.
I think that those of you who have seen
the back side of this medal, perhaps when
it fell on the floor, can see a world being
held in God's hands. And we have now,
to close our ceremony, Mattiwilda Dobbs,
who will sing, “He's Got the Whole World
in His Hands."
The meeting with the Egyptian delega-
tion, beginning at 4 p.m. in the Cabinet
Room, lasted 1 hour. The President was
accompanied by Vice President Mondale;
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the Pres-
ident for National Security Affairs; Alfred
L. Atherton, Ambassador at Large; and
William Quandt, National Security Coun-
cil staff member. On the Egyptian side
were Dr. Butrus Ghali, Acting Foreign
Minister; Lt. Gen. Kamal Hassan Ali,
Minister of Defense; Ashraf Ghorbal,
Egyptian Ambassador to the United
States; and Usama al-Baz, Under Secre-
tary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The President welcomed this opportu-
nity to get a firsthand report from the
heads of the Egyptian and Israeli delega-
tions about the status of the talks in Wash-
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:27 p.m. in ington. He reviewed with both delegations
the Grand Hall at the White House.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
White House Statement Following Meetings
With the Israeli and Egyptian Delegations.
October 17, 1978
The meeting with the Israeli delegation,
beginning at 2:10 p.m. in the Cabinet
Room, lasted 1 hour. The President was
accompanied by Vice President Mondale;
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the Pres-
ident for National Security Affairs; Alfred
L. Atherton, Ambassador at Large; and
William Quandt, National Security Coun-
cil staff member. On the Israeli side were
Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan; Meir
Rosenne, Legal Adviser, Ministry of For-
eign Affairs; Defense Minister Ezer Weiz-
man; Ely Akim Rubenstein, Assistant
Director General, Ministry of Foreign Af-
fairs; and Simcha Dinitz, Israeli Ambas-
sador to the United States.
the progress made so far in the conference
and the issues that remain to be resolved.
The President and the Israeli and Egyp-
tian delegates expressed their satisfaction
with the progress so far. They reaffirmed
their determination to continue that prog-
ress, so that the negotiations can be com-
pleted as soon as possible.
Veterans Disability Compensation
and Survivors Benefits and
Housing Benefits Bills
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
October 18, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This morning I've come
to sign two very important bills involving
our veterans, those who are disabled and
those who have served in Vietnam-in
fact, all the Americans who have honored
our country by offering their lives for lib-
erty and freedom.
Since our Nation was first founded,
Americans have felt obligated to honor
1789
