July 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
First, we will greatly simplify the grant
process, eliminating 75 percent of the
paperwork. For instance, cities now re-
quiring 40 different applications per year
will in the future only have to submit one
application per year.
Second, we will strengthen the part-
nership already enhanced by our urban
policy between the Federal Government
on the one hand and State and local com-
munities on the other. For the first time
hundreds of cities and counties will have
the flexibility to decide how their LEAA
funds can best be used to attack crime in
their own communities and will receive
fixed allocations of LEAA funds for that
purpose. In addition, we will target re-
sources to those areas of the country with
especially severe crime problems.
and
Third, we will consolidate
strengthen research and statistics pro-
grams within the Department of Justice.
A National Institute of Justice will be
created to replace several different re-
search units now located in the Depart-
ment of Justice. It will be charged with
conducting independent studies to deter-
mine how we can best solve our criminal
and civil justice problems. A Bureau of
Justice Statistics will be created to pro-
vide for the first time a central focus for
the gathering and analysis of statistics
concerning crime and concerning our
justice system.
The Federal effort to help State and
local governments solve their crime pro-
grams cannot be limited, however, to just
improving LEAA. A sensitivity to the
crime problem must be part of other Fed-
eral programs which affect the daily lives
of our citizens.
Several of the Federal agencies which
have been involved in our urban policy
will be pooling $32 million over the next
year to develop, for instance, an improved
anticrime program for public housing
projects. Funds will be provided by the
CETA program for training and educa-
tion to hire local residents for such impor-
tant, preventive jobs as manning elevators
and patrolling unguarded areas where the
crime rate has been very high. Recrea-
tion facilities will be built by Interior
Department funds for the men, women,
children who reside in these projects. And
LEAA funds will be provided for coun-
seling and for other services for juveniles
living in public housing projects who
might be influenced or tempted to resort
to a life of crime.
The programs I've announced today
will have a beneficial effect on our crime
problem. But if we are to be successful,
we also need the support of each of the
distinguished leaders who are here today
from State and local governments, from
community and neighborhood groups.
We have the knowledge, the ability, the
determination, the commitment, and the
influence, and using these more effective
programs, our common effort can con-
tinue to reduce the excessive crime rate in
our Nation.
I'd like now to call on the Attorney
General for further remarks, and then
we'll hear from distinguished Members
of the Congress, and then from the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Thank you,
Mr. President.
This is the third ceremony we've had
in the Rose Garden that bears very heav-
ily on our effort to do something about
improving our criminal justice system.
The first was a meeting just like this where
we joined with the Senate and House
Judiciary Committees to sponsor the re-
codification of the criminal laws. That's
now pending in the House, already passed
the Senate. The second was to do some-
thing about bringing the court system in-
to our foreign intelligence efforts we call
that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
1242
