Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that's a tribute to the forcefulness of the
Members of the House and Senate. Thank
very much.
you all very
Would you like to say a word? Mr.
Chairman, would you like to say a word?
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. I want to say
it's a pleasure to work with you, and I
must say that your delineation of what
the bill will do and can do for the Gov-
ernment was outstanding. And I'm glad
you're not in the Congress, or you'd be
running the whole thing, instead of just
99 percent of it. [Laughter]
REPRESENTATIVE FOUNTAIN. Mr. Presi-
dent, I would like to say that I think this
legislation, which we've been working on
idea-wise for many years we thought the
Advisory Commission on Intergovern-
mental Relations would do a lot of it.
It's done some good, but it hasn't gone
this far. But I think this will fit into your
reorganization plan, and the key point
that you mentioned, the fact that the In-
spectors General will be appointed by you
and have the power of the appointment
of the President, confirmed by the Senate,
and the independence that he'll have to
investigate and not have to ask someone,
is a significant thing about this bill.
And I think it has potential for saving
and preventing the expenditure of billions
of dollars so you won't have to cut out all
the services you might otherwise have to
cut.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good point.
I might say that the standards for in-
spection and auditing will be worked out
by the General Accounting Office, work-
ing closely with the Office of Management
and Budget. This will be implemented un-
der the provisions of the law and, as Tom
Eagleton said during the debate, by ex-
ecutive direction.
So, we'll move enthusiastically. And I
think the harmony and the partnership
being established between the executive
and legislative branch of Government to
root out fraud and corruption and mis-
management is a very constructive step.
SENATOR PERCY. Mr. President, I think
in the absence of Chairman Ribicoff,
Senator Chiles-
SENATOR CHILES. Tom, I think, had
something.
SENATOR EAGLETON. Well, I'll just be
brief. I thought the ceremony was going
fine till Brooks arrived. [Laughter] I have
nothing to add.
REPRESENTATIVE BROOKS. That was
correct. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Frank Horton would
like to say a word.
REPRESENTATIVE HORTON. Well, Mr.
President, I want to echo everything that's
already been said and thank the adminis-
tration for their support of this legislation.
We already have in existence Inspector
Generals in several of the departments.
And it was a result of legislation that we
had passed in the last Congress that set
up the Inspector General in HEW.
And Tom Morris, through the work
that he's been doing there-HEW has al-
ready uncovered a lot of abuse. And as a
result of that, I got a letter from some-
body in Texas one time which was based
on a report in one of the national maga-
zines, and they wrote and said, well, all
this has been discovered, all this fraud and
abuse. What has the Congress done about
this? And I wrote back and said we were
the ones that got the Inspector General
started. So, I think we'll see a lot of excel-
lent results.
And this is certainly one of those steps
in the right direction to cut down on Gov-
ernment expenditures.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree. Chuck, would
you like to say a word?
SENATOR PERCY. I just echo what has
been said. The General and I have been
talking about the Office of Public Integrity
in the Justice Department. We're going to
try to emphasize the importance of that
1756
