Aug. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Women's Equality Day, 1978
Proclamation 4590. August 25, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
August 26, 1978, is the 58th anniver-
sary of the adoption of the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution guaranteeing
that the right of United States citizens to
vote shall not be denied or abridged by
the Federal government or any state on
account of sex.
This was the successful culmination of
the struggle of the American Women's
Suffrage movement. The right to vote,
to participate in the process of framing
the laws under which we all live, is
fundamental. But it was only the first step
in achieving full equality for women. The
late Dr. Alice Paul realized this, drafted
the Equal Rights Amendment in 1923 and
had it introduced in Congress over a
period of 49 years, until it passed on
March 22, 1972.
Women have made substantial progress
toward full equality in recent years, partly
as a result of the national debate on the
Equal Rights Amendment, which has
made many people aware of existing in-
justices. Despite this progress, strong ac-
tion is still needed to guarantee women
full equality of opportunity.
I personally believe that ratification of
the Equal Rights Amendment can be the
single most important step in guarantee-
ing all Americans-both women and
men-their rights under the United
States Constitution. This major step to-
ward full equality for women has al-
ready been taken by 35 states, represent-
ing seventy-two percent of the population
of this Nation. Only three more states
must ratify the Equal Rights Amendment
before it becomes a part of the Constitu-
tion. I believe this is too important and
far-reaching an issue for arbitrary time
barriers to limit full debate and an ulti-
mate decision that truly reflects the will of
the American people. In a society that is
free, democratic and humane, there can
be no time limit on equality.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim August 26, 1978,
as Women's Equality Day and do hereby
call upon the people of the United States
to observe this day with appropriate cere-
monies and activities. I further urge all
our people to dedicate themselves anew
to the goal of achieving equal rights for
women under the law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 25th day of August,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:05 p.m., August 25, 1978]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
August 21
The President has declared a major dis-
aster for Baldwin County, Ala., as a result
of severe storms and flooding, beginning
about July 25, which caused extensive
public and private property damage.
1470
