Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
So, these relationships are very com-
plicated, and I've tried to describe them
as best I can in just a few minutes.
WESTERN ROLE IN AFRICA
MR. SEGUI. Mr. President, concerning
Africa, for instance, and competition, and
concerning the French involvement and
the role of France in Africa, do you guess
now, in the future, if there is a future
crisis again in Africa, then Western shall
have to stay in Africa or not? I mean,
Western countries, the role of Western
countries is essential or not in Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think it's essen-
tial. As you know, some of the European
nations have had a longstanding relation-
ship in Africa, both as colonial powers
and subsequent to that as very interested
trade partners with large numbers of their
own national citizens living within those
countries-France and the Francophone
countries, Germany, for instance, in
Namibia, and so forth. We are working
to try to resolve peacefully the threaten-
ing dispute areas.
We are cooperating with the British,
for instance, in trying to solve the Rhode-
sian problem, to bring about majority
rule in Rhodesia under a democratic
form of government, to try to protect the
interests of both the majority and the
minority citizens, utilizing the United Na-
tions forces to maintain peace while the
electoral process can be put into effect.
We have worked very closely with the
frontline nations, those nations surround-
ing Rhodesia. In Namibia, we are cooper-
ating with France, with Germany, with
Great Britain, with Canada, in trying to
bring about a peaceful resolution of the
Namibian question, withdrawal of South
African forces, again establishing a demo-
cratic government there under the aus-
pices of the United Nations.
I believe that this kind of role-peace-
ful, nonintrusive, not based on military
action, working closely with the nationals
there, the citizens of countries involved-
is an appropriate role for us. I think when
we have a disturbance of peace, as was
the case with the violation of the Zairian
border by the Katangan intruders from
Angola, that we need to act in concert.
My own preference, though, is to see the
Organization of African Unity strength-
ened and any sort of peace-keeping forces
be under the auspices of the African na-
tions themselves through the Organiza-
tion of African Unity.
In a special case, we do provide some
military assistance or some logistical sup-
port, as we did in Zaire, to remove the
nationals who were threatened there. But
I think this kind of military action on our
part ought to be extremely limited and
done only at the request of governments
involved.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH CHINA
MR. NARITA. Mr. President, regarding
the East-West relations, it seems to me
that the United States is willing to have
normalization with Peking. When do you
expect this normalization to be done, and
could you tell me what the effect will be
on Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we agree with
the principles expressed in the Shanghai
Communique, with the ultimate goal be-
ing normal relations between ourselves
and the People's Republic of China. We
don't know how rapidly this process can
take place. We have deepfelt needs to
protect the interest of the people on Tai-
wan, to see the dispute between Taiwan
and the Mainland resolved by peaceful
means. We intend to continue trade with
Taiwan. We want to have these relation-
ships clearly understood by the People's
Republic of China.
1257
