Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tial progress toward accomplishing this
long sought goal.
The bill provides for a tax that will
start at 4 cents per gallon in 1980, and in-
crease to 10 cents per gallon in 1985. The
proceeds from this tax will be deposited in
a trust fund for use in construction of new
waterway projects. While this is less than
the cost recovery I had requested, it is a
major step in that direction.
The act also provides for a comprehen-
sive study to be carried out by the Secre-
tary of Transportation for the purpose of
fully assessing the impacts and effects of
various types and levels of user charges.
We are looking forward to carrying out
this study and making recommendations
based on it to a future Congress. I intend
to continue to work hard for an adequate
level of cost recovery on the waterway
system.
sideration of all the transportation factors
involved.
The careful consideration that the ad-
ministration and the Congress gave to this
issue illustrates the new era of budgeting
restraint we are entering. In the future,
we can only afford to invest in the highest
priorities and the most needed projects.
This applies not only for waterway and
other transportation facilities but in every
area of Federal spending.
The Upper Mississippi River Basin
Commission is required to carry out com-
prehensive studies of the future transpor-
tation requirements of this region. We are
very hopeful that these studies, along with
the analysis of user charges, will lead to a
prudent program of future waterway in-
vestment, together with a fair and just
cost recovery mechanism. If we can ac-
complish these goals, we can continue to
provide this region with the transporta-
tion system it must have.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8533 is Public Law
95-502, approved October 21.
The bill is also important because it
authorizes a much needed new lock and
dam at Alton, Illinois. Many in the Mid-
west have long been concerned with the
condition and capacity of Locks and Dam
26. Farmers who depend on water trans-
portation to move their grain to market,
and others who rely on our waterways for Minneapolis, Minnesota
supplies of chemicals, fuels, fertilizers,
and other bulk commodities, know the im-
portance of a smoothly functioning water-
way system. There is no question that sig-
nificant physical deterioration has oc-
curred in the present facility at Alton and
that an increase in its capacity will be
needed before long. This law meets these
concerns by authorizing a new, modern
facility with a single 1,200-foot lock de-
signed to meet the needs of waterborne
traffic in this area for many years to come.
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for
Governor Rudy Perpich. October 21, 1978
The prolonged and lively debate over
this authorization has raised fundamental
issues of national transportation policy.
My decision to support the authorization
for construction of a new facility at Alton
was made in the context of careful con-
How many of you are supporting Rudy
Perpich for Governor? You supporting
him? [Laughter and applause]
Okay. I want to ask you another ques-
tion. How many of you have contributed
all that you can afford [laughter-to
his campaign, or the maximum amount?
Well, I think it would be very nice for
me if all of you would raise your hands-
[laughter]—and be telling the truth. How
many of you have called 50 people and
asked them to vote for Rudy Perpich?
[Laughter] Be truthful. Okay, I can tell
it is not any problem at all for you to
call 150 people a day. If you would just
you
1828
