Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
creased it even more to about $26.6 bil-
lion. But the Congress has worked very
well as you know, Dan Glickman is a
member of that committee—in describing
some of the problems in increasing agri-
cultural exports in the future.
In the first place, we do not have com-
petitive trade offices around the world to
sell our agricultural products. When I was
Governor of Georgia, we had just one
State-six different international trade of-
fices located in different capitals and
trade centers around the world-in Rio
de Janeiro, in São Paulo in Brazil, in
Bonn, Germany, in Brussels, Belgium, and
Toronto, Canada, and so forth-just to
sell Georgia products. And the Congress
has now well recognized that we don't
have that same capability of having trade
offices where you have a merchant there
whose sole responsibility is to sell Ameri-
can agricultural products. And in the
future we will have this capability.
The Congress mandated between 6 and
25 trade offices to be established under
the Department of Agriculture to sell
American farm products in a competitive
way in the future.
Another thing that we decided to do
in this legislation is to give special loans,
well-secured loans, from 3 years up to 10
years to establish grain reserves that might
enhance the shipment of American grain
overseas, to be sure that we had breeder
livestock sales, to increase the export of
our American beef and pork and poultry.
We've not been competitive in exports of
livestock in the past. Other countries have,
as you well know.
And also to provide marketing facili-
ties. There are some nations that want to
buy our products. They don't have an easy
or convenient way to unload wheat or
corn or sorghum in their dockyards. And
so, we can give short loans now for these
countries, well secured, they're not give-
away programs to let them buy our agri-
cultural products.
We are increasing the stature of the
representatives of the Agriculture Depart-
ment in our consulates and in our embas-
sies around the world so that they can
have a higher level of authority in pur-
suing their single purpose of increasing
American markets overseas.
Another thing that we've tried to do
is to increase the possibility of nations to
buy American products.
We've changed recently the right of the
Soviet Union to buy from 8 million metric
tons of grain up to 15 million metric tons
of grain without going through the proce-
dure of getting approval for it. We've
got the grain on hand. We want the So-
viets to buy it.
And as you know, one of the things
that has devastated our markets in the
past have been embargoes imposed by
previous administrations. As long as I'm
in the White House there are not going
to be any embargoes to prevent the ship-
ment of American products overseas.
And just one other point that I believe
is important. We have also authorized
short-term CCC loans to the People's Re-
public of China to buy American wheat,
sorghum, and corn. In the past we have
lost this tremendous market completely.
One out of four people on Earth live in
the People's Republic of China. And
they've been going to Canada, going to
Australia, going to Argentina, going to
Brazil, buying beans, corn, and wheat.
They have not bought any from us in the
past. In the future we hope to open that
market as well.
So, what we are trying to do is to join
in with you in letting the Federal Gov-
ernment, for a change, not be an obstacle
to the sale of American farm products,
but to be an avenue by which that sale
might be enhanced, because we don't
want a surplus to accumulate here in our
country that forces the price down, and I
1819
