Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
take these responsibilities seriously, I sub-
mitted this spring a defense budget de-
signed to improve our military prepared-
ness and calling for increased spending in
real terms, above and beyond the cost of
inflation, especially for enhanced readi-
ness and for the urgent requirement of
strengthening our NATO forces.
Because of these same obligations, and
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
Defense, I have decided to veto the de-
fense authorization bill which the Con-
gress passed last week.
This is not a question of money. The
Congress has reduced only slightly the
amount of money that I recommended for
our Nation's defense. It's a question of
how that money is going to be spent,
whether it will be concentrated in the
most vital areas of need, or diverted to less
crucial projects.
We must have the strongest possible
defense within the budget limits set by
Congress. We cannot afford to waste our
national defense dollars. We need better
maintenance and logistical support, more
research and development, a more flexible
Navy. And we need these improvements
now, not 8 or 10 years in the future. The
defense authorization bill does not meet
any of these requirements.
There are four particularly disturbing
areas in which this bill, by cutting into the
muscle of our military request, could
weaken our defenses and erode our con-
tributions to NATO.
This bill, for instance, cuts $800 million
military forces, not only in NATO and
this country but throughout the world.
This bill would also cause a cut of half
a billion dollars, $500 million, from readi-
ness funds. This is an unglamorous part,
but it's necessary for expenditures for ship
overhauls, weapon repairs, spare parts,
personnel training, and the logistical sup-
port which guarantees that we can move
our forces and have them act immediately
when they're needed.
And this bill also cuts very heavily from
military research and development funds.
I had requested a substantial increase in
these funds to sustain our position of tech-
nical excellence in a world where circum-
stances change rapidly and where weap-
ons are increasingly dependent on ad-
vanced technology. The bill that has
passed the Congress could lead to an ac-
tual decrease in these funds for next year.
The ultimate effect of this bill would
also weaken our Navy by aggravating the
dangerous trend away from a larger num-
ber of different kinds of ships which can
maintain our military presence on the
high seas, and toward a disturbingly small
number of ships which are increasingly
costly.
What the Congress has done with the
money being cut from these vital areas is
to authorize a fifth nuclear-powered air-
craft carrier, which we do not need. This
would be the most expensive ship ever
built. Its purchase price, even estimated
now, would be at least $2 billion, and the
aircraft it would carry and the extra ships
for weapons and equipment for our Army required to escort and defend it would
forces, undermining our commitment to
NATO at the very time when our allies
recognize the urgent need to improve the
power and the readiness of our forces in
Europe.
This bill would also cut $200 million for
Air Force weapons and equipment which
would add flexibility and strength to our
cost billions more in years to come.
In order to use our dollars for their
maximum effect, we must choose the
armor, artillery, aircraft, and support that
will immediately bolster our strength, es-
pecially in NATO. By diverting funds
away from more important defense needs
in order to build a very expensive nuclear
aircraft carrier, this bill would reduce our
1
1439
