Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We've seen a great change in our coun-
try in the last 20 months, where we've had
an opportunity for a Democratic President
in the White House, for the first time in 8
years, to be able to work in harmony with
a Democratic Congress.
I campaigned for 2 years around our
country, and I've never lived nor served
in Washington before. But when I was
finally inaugurated as President with your
help, I knew, I think very clearly, what
the American people wanted, what their
needs were, what their frustrations were,
what their doubts were, and what were
their hopes and aspirations for the future.
When I became President, we had 10
million Americans who didn't have a full-
time job. We had about 7 million Ameri-
cans who didn't have a job at all. The un-
employment rate had been rising for 8
years, and it reached the highest level in a
long time, 8 percent. We began to work
together with the help of many of you,
not just for government programs but to
revive the strength of our free enterprise
system in which we believe so deeply.
We've had a net increase in the last 20
months of 6 million jobs. And now the
unemployment rate is below 6 percent,
holding steady, going down. Many people
who had been deprived of a chance for
employment all their lives now have a
chance. People who had given up hope
and weren't seeking jobs have now put
their names on the unemployment roles,
looking for a chance to live in dignity and
self-respect for a change.
In Ohio in the last 20 months, your un-
employment rate has gone from 7.8 per-
cent down to 5.2 percent, a 33-percent de-
crease in unemployment in that short a
period of time.
And I believe there's a new spirit in
our country; that we have a conviction,
exemplified by our party, that every
American who wants to work can find
work. And it's revived the hope and the
aspirations and the confidence that people
have in the future. Now we don't look
upon unemployment as the most burning
issue in our country. But 2 years ago, 12
months ago, it was.
I found throughout the country, too, a
concern about our Government itself.
Many people had lost confidence in the
United States Government because of the
deep wounds inflicted on our country by
the Vietnam war, the Watergate scandals,
the CIA revelations. A lot of people had
said, "I don't want to have anything to
do with politics. I've lost faith in the Gov-
ernment in Washington. The people that
I send to hold public office have betrayed
my trust." And there was a withdrawing
from participation in shaping our future
lives through our federal system of
government.
We've begun to turn that around. I
think you all know that the Congress has
acted effectively to give me a chance to
reorganize the structure of Government,
to make it more effective, more efficient,
more open. We've begun to root out cor-
ruption-it's been there for decades in
the General Services Administration-to
try to bring out among the employees who
are very dedicated a commitment to im-
prove their own lives, their own perform-
ance.
Civil service reform is going to pass
very shortly to let those hundreds of thou-
sands of people who have given their lives
to public service on a professional career
basis to be rewarded when they do good
work, and those who don't do good work
will either be fired or moved or inspired
to do better.
We've got a chance now to let man-
agers manage and to let the Government
deliver better services in a more efficient
way, to restore confidence there. The Con-
gress is now on the verge of passing a com-
prehensive ethics bill to apply the strictest
possible standards to Members of the Con-
1622
