Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
I pray that before Christmas, I will be
going to the Middle East to join in signing
a peace treaty that will bring permanent,
good relations between ancient enemies,
Egypt and Israel.
new political star flash across the Florida
heavens, and that's what's happening
here. And running on the same ticket with
Claude Pepper-[laughter]-is Bob Gra-
ham, an older, more experienced politi-
Well, you can see that we are trying cian, but equally as exciting.
to do our best. We've had some successes,
some partial success, some great chal-
lenges still ahead of us. I want to have a
government that can be justifiably proud
of what it is. I want to make sure that our
Nation has a reputation of being clean
and decent. I want our strength to depend
upon the finest characteristics of the
American people. I hope that you will
help between now and November 7 to en-
courage all your friends, all your neighbors
to vote.
In 1960, two-thirds of the American
people went to the polls to vote. In re-
cent elections, two-thirds of the Ameri-
can people did not go to the polls and
vote. It's important that you do so. If you
will help me to elect these fine candidates
whom I've come down to Miami to help,
we can make a great nation of which we
are all so proud an even greater nation in
the future.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:35 p.m. at the
North Shore Community Center Park. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Robert L.
Shevin, Florida attorney general, and Alfredo
Duran, State Democratic Party chairman.
Miami Beach, Florida
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for Bob
Graham. October 26, 1978
It's always exciting to me to come to
Florida, but particularly when I have a
chance to participate in seeing a bright,
This is a happy day for me to come
back down here, because you gave me so
much
support and help when I needed it.
When I was flying in, I thought there was
a day of mourning in Florida. I saw over
the Eckerd Drug Stores black drapes-
[laughter]-I didn't know what hap-
pened.ยน
But we've got in Bob Graham a young
man who has proven already that he
knows how to reach the consciousness of a
doubtful electorate and knows how to un-
derstand at first hand the ideals and the
needs and the yearnings and the fears and
trepidations and the hopes of average,
ordinary working people who comprise
this State.
I've watched his campaign with a great
deal of interest. And I've seen his former
opponents, Bob Shevin and others, come
forward in a very generous and courage-
ous way, immediately after the campaigns
were over, and say, "We give you our sup-
port, because we know you and we have
confidence in you."
At this moment in Bob's campaign,
prospects look very good. And I congrat-
ulate you and him for it. But if there's
one thing I've observed in this Nation
the last 3 or 4 years, it is that upsets can
happen. And I thank God for it. And you
know what the polls looked like just a few
weeks before Bob Graham was nominated
to represent the Democratic Party. It
would be a serious mistake for those who
Jack Eckerd is the Republican gubernatorial
candidate.
1869
