July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
around the country, and it's meant a lot
to us. The questions are very incisive and,
I think, bring to my attention matters
that sometimes are parochial in nature
that I would not know about; other times,
things that give me a forewarning of
national issues that I wouldn't otherwise
be prepared for.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
One of the things that I would like to
emphasize today-and I've asked the
staff to put these two props here is our
continuing effort to cut down on unwar-
ranted and unnecessary Government reg-
ulation and intrusion into the private free
enterprise business sector.
This pile of paper, which happens to
be blank, represents the number of forms
and regulations that would be required
by roughly 45,000 small businesses that
are now exempt from OSHA regulation.
We've had very good success, particu-
larly in the Labor Department, with
OSHA and otherwise, and in HEW, in
bringing about some reduction in re-
quired paperwork.
This is another example of regulations
that have been required. This is the ac-
tual regulations on the purchasing of a
mousetrap for the Defense Department.
It used to take 500 pages to describe the
regulations. Now we've cut it down to less
than one page. Towels used to be 20 or
30 pages. Now it's only one paragraph.
In the Internal Revenue Service, we've
simplified the tax reforms greatly so that
a larger number of people could use the
standard form. And because of that, the
error rate this year is substantially below
what the error rate has been in the past.
It's a continuing effort, very difficult. I've
issued a tough Executive order to all my
agency leaders asking them to use their
own initiative, and we've set standards
for them to meet in the reduction of this
regulation.
In a broader context, we've had re-
markable success in airline deregulation.
The Congress is still considering an air-
line deregulation bill, but in the actions
of the Civil Aeronautics Board in inter-
national flights, and also domestic flights,
we've had a dramatic reduction in the
cost to passengers in acquiring the right
to make these flights.
At first the airlines themselves deplored
this as shaking the foundations for their
profits, but now I think with the experi-
ence of a number of months they all see
that this reduction of Government regu-
lation has been greatly beneficial to them.
It really has let the free enterprise system
work. So, we're determined to continue
this process, sometimes with disappoint-
ments and setbacks, but with a great deal
of determination, not only on my part
but on that of other people in this
country.
We've cut out already about 85 million
hours of work among American people in
reducing reporting forms and requests
for Government services, which is the
equivalent of about 50,000 people work-
ing full time. This is what's happened in
the private sector. And I would guess that
many of these regulations were never
adequately studied by Federal employees
or leaders. The reports were never read,
the forms were never examined. And I've
called around this table, as a matter of
fact, interested groups of Americans, you
might be interested in knowing. All the
State school superintendents have been
here to meet with me, all the presidents
of many of the major universities came
here to talk to me about how they could
make recommendations on legal ways to
cut out forms, paperwork. And when we
get their recommendations, we really try
to carry them out. So, this is one item
that is on my shoulders as a responsibility.
We have others, of course-welfare re-
form, tax reform, energy policy.
1226
