Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
4. Egypt and Israel will work with each
other and with other interested parties to
establish agreed procedures for a prompt,
just and permanent implementation of
the resolution of the refugee problem.
B. Egypt-Israel
1. Egypt and Israel undertake not to
resort to the threat or the use of force to
settle disputes. Any disputes shall be set-
tled by peaceful means in accordance
with the provisions of Article 33 of the
Charter of the United Nations.
2. In order to achieve peace between
them, the parties agree to negotiate in
good faith with a goal of concluding with-
in three months from the signing of this
Framework a peace treaty between them,
while inviting the other parties to the con-
flict to proceed simultaneously to nego-
tiate and conclude similar peace treaties
with a view to achieving a comprehensive
peace in the area. The Framework for the
Conclusion of a Peace Treaty between
Egypt and Israel will govern the peace ne-
gotiations between them. The parties will
agree on the modalities and the timetable
for the implementation of their obliga-
tions under the treaty.
C. Associated Principles
1. Egypt and Israel state that the prin-
ciples and provisions described below
should apply to peace treaties between Is-
rael and each of its neighbors-Egypt,
Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.
2. Signatories shall establish among
themselves relationships normal to states
at peace with one another. To this end,
they should undertake to abide by all the
provisions of the Charter of the United
Nations. Steps to be taken in this respect
include:
(a) full recognition;
(b) abolishing economic boycotts;
(c) guaranteeing that under their jur-
isdiction the citizens of the other parties
shall enjoy the protection of the due proc-
ess of law.
3. Signatories should explore possibili-
ties for economic development in the con-
text of final peace treaties, with the ob-
jective of contributing to the atmosphere
of peace, cooperation and friendship
which is their common goal.
4. Claims Commissions may be estab-
lished for the mutual settlement of all fi-
nancial claims.
5. The United States shall be invited
to participate in the talks on matters re-
lated to the modalities of the implemen-
tation of the agreements and working out
the timetable for the carrying out of the
obligations of the parties.
6. The United Nations Security Coun-
cil shall be requested to endorse the peace
treaties and ensure that their provisions
shall not be violated. The permanent
members of the Security Council shall be
requested to underwrite the peace treaties
and ensure respect for their provisions.
They shall also be requested to conform
their policies and actions with the under-
takings contained in this Framework.
For the Government of the Arab Repub-
lic of Egypt:
For the Government of Israel:
Witnessed by:
A. SADAT
M. BEGIN
JIMMY CARTER
Jimmy Carter, President
of the United States of
America
ANNEX
TEXT OF UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION 242 OF NOVEMBER 22, 1967
Adopted unanimously at the 1382nd meeting
The Security Council,
Expressing its continuing concern with the
grave situation in the Middle East,
Emphasizing the inadmissibility of the acqui-
sition of territory by war and the need to work
for a just and lasting peace in which every
State in the area can live in security,
Emphasizing further that all Member States
in their acceptance of the Charter of the
1526
