Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
the threat of nuclear weapons for people
in our own country and throughout the
world. We are trying to negotiate, with
some success already, peace in the Middle
East, between Israel and Egypt. This is a
difficult undertaking, and we need your
help, your prayers, and your support.
We are trying to strengthen our ties
with our own allies, to let NATO be
stronger. We've got a strong defense,
ever improving. We're the strongest na-
tion on Earth militarily, and as long as
I'm in the White House, we're going to
stay number one in defense.
Tennesseans believe in hard work. So
do I. When I was elected President, we
had 10 million Americans, 10 million
Americans who could not get a full-time
job. We had 7 million Americans or more
who couldn't get a job at all. But we put
America back to work. We've had, since
I've been in office, an increase of 6 mil-
lion net new jobs for America, and we're
going to keep on giving our people a
chance to work for themselves and for
our country.
We are trying to provide better educa-
tion, better housing, better highways, a
good agricultural program. With your
Congressmen's help, we passed a farm bill
about a year ago that's already improved
farm income 25 percent. We've got the
highest level of agricultural exports in the
history of our country last year. This year,
it's going to be even higher; next year,
higher still.
We're trying also to make sure that we
have a good energy program, and for the
first time in the history of our Nation, we
now have a good, sound energy policy
that's going to be better in the future with
your help.
[The day before] 3 yesterday, I signed a
bill to deregulate the airline industry.
" Printed in the transcript.
We're trying to get Government's nose
out of the business of the people of this
country, and we've made good progress
already. We've had a decrease in airline
fares, a tremendous increase in the num-
ber of people who can now afford to fly
in airplanes, and the profits of the airline
industry have gone up. And by 1985, we
will have eliminated a major Federal
regulatory agency, the CAB, the Civil
Aeronautics Board, because we've proven
that the American free enterprise system
can work if competition is put in and the
consumers are protected. That's the kind
of government we're trying to give you.
The Democratic Party has always been
a party with a heart. We believe in
people and giving our people a better
chance to live. But we're also a party that
knows how to manage government.
When I was running for President in
1976 and you helped me so much, we had
a Federal budget deficit of $66 billion. In
1 year, we cut it down to the fifties. We've
now cut it down to the forties. By the end
of next year, we'll have cut it in half, and
we're going to keep on working until we
have a balanced budget for the Federal
Government and responsible to you.
At the same time, we've cut taxes. Bet-
ter services, lower taxes, lower budget
deficits, better management, zero-base
budgeting these are the kind of things
that we believe are important.
We're cutting out corruption. I signed
an ethics bill this morning to make public
officials accountable for where their in-
come is derived and how they spend the
money
and whether they are honest. This
will go a long step forward.
And the next big undertaking is to con-
trol inflation in our Nation. For the last 10
years, the inflation rate in our country has
averaged 62 percent. As I said the other
night, the 3 years before I became Presi-
1861
