Oct. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But the matter has been thoroughly dis-
cussed, and I don't see any reason for me
to meet with Mr. Smith.
SAFETY STANDARDS FOR YOUTH CAMPS
Q. Dave Ferguson, from Connecticut.
Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to just
say that if you or Mrs. Carter needed a
place to stay on your trips up to Connecti-
cut next week, we'd be glad to put you
up. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
Q. Senator Ribicoff estimates that
every year 100 children are killed and
200,000 are injured while attending youth
camps. Many people feel that these num-
bers could be reduced if Federal legisla-
tion were passed that established camp
safety standards and methods of enforc-
ing these standards, and they feel that
State efforts have been inadequate.
Congressmen Sarasin and McKinney
recently wrote to you asking that your ad-
ministration change its position and en-
dorse passage of such a bill. Will you sup-
port passage of such an act next session?
And if not, why not?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I never
have had this come to my attention, ex-
cept just in a very tangential way. My
general philosophy concerning all of gov-
ernment is that the best governments to
administer programs of that kind are the
ones that are closest to the people.
I think local governments in a county
or a township area or a State government
obviously would be much better qualified
to administer safety regulations and
safety laws concerning boating and moun-
tain climbing and horseback riding and
so forth, than would the Federal Govern-
ment.
Obviously, there could be some cooper-
ation there when requested by the local
and State authorities, because part of the
money in some categories does come from
Federal allocations. But my inclination
would be to let local and State people
handle this particular safety question and
let the Federal Government respond to
their requests for legitimate and proper
assistance.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Lebanon,
New Hampshire. Earlier in the day, Mr.
Eizenstat said that you would soon be an-
nouncing some tough things in the fight
against inflation. Could you give us any
idea what those might be?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not yet. It's very
difficult for me to put my final approval
on an anti-inflation package until I see
what the Congress action will be during
these last few hours. I have a thick docu-
ment that's a culmination of literally
weeks of work on my desk now, with a
series of options that I have thoroughly
discussed with large groups around this
table and smaller groups in my office.
As soon as the Congress completes its
work and goes home, it won't take me but
just a short while, just a few days, to make
my final judgments on all those options.
But they would have to be based upon the
budget levels, the action on either accept-
ing or rejecting things like hospital cost
containment, my own decision concerning
a tax reduction bill.
There's no way that I can do it before
I see what the Congress does in its final
stages. But the work has been done, basi-
cally, with that one exception.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, Dave Cooper, from
the Akron, Ohio, Beacon Journal. Do
you see now anything changed in the in-
stitutional relationship between the Presi-
dency and Congress in light of some of the
successes of the last several weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't really be-
lieve so. I think the first year I was in
office I was maybe a little overly hesitant
about using my own influence and author-
1778
