Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 12
Rodriguez is a member of the National
Commission on the Future of State Col-
leges and Universities, the National Edu-
cation Task Force of La Raza, and the
California School Finance Reform Com-
mission. He is the author of numerous
articles, particularly on bilingual educa-
tion.
Civil Aeronautics Board
Nomination of Marvin S. Cohen To Be a
Member. September 11, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Marvin S. Cohen, of
Tucson, Ariz., to be a member of the
Civil Aeronautics Board for the re-
mainder of the term expiring December
31, 1979.
Cohen was born October 16, 1931, in
Akron, Ohio. He received a B.A. (1953)
and LL.B. (1957) from the University of
Arizona.
Cohen was an associate with a Tucson
law firm in 1957 and deputy Pima Coun-
ty attorney in 1958. In 1959 and 1960, he
was chief civil deputy Pima County at-
torney. In 1961 he was first assistant city
attorney for the city of Tucson.
From 1961 to 1963, Cohen was special
assistant to the Solicitor of the Depart-
ment of the Interior in Washington. Since
1963 he has been associated with the
Tucson law firm of Bilby, Shoenhair,
Warnock & Dolph.
Cohen has served as chairman of the
Arizona State Bar's Group and Prepaid
Legal Committee, and as secretary of
Arizona Legal Services. He is a board
member of the Tucson Regional Plan,
and chairman of the rate structure sub-
committee of the citizens advisory com-
mittee to the Arizona Corporation Com-
mission. He has served on the Tucson
Water Advisory Committee.
Presidential Commission on
World Hunger
Appointment of 14 Members. September 12,
1978
The President today announced the
appointment of 14 persons as members of
the Presidential Commission on World
Hunger. They are:
NORMAN E. BORLAUG, of Minnesota, director
of the Wheat, Barley and Triticale Re-
search and Production Programs at the In-
ternational Center for Maize and Wheat
Improvement in Mexico;
DAVID W. BROOKS, of Atlanta, chairman of
the policy committee of Gold Kist, Inc.;
HARRY CHAPIN, the recording artist, who is
the founder of World Hunger Year, a non-
profit private group;
JOHN DENVER, the recording artist, who has
also produced a film, "I Want to Live," di-
rected toward the problem of world hunger;
WALTER P. FALCON, director of the Food Re-
search Institute and professor of economics
at Stanford University;
SOL LINOWITZ, Washington attorney and co-
negotiator of the Panama Canal treaties
(also designated Chair of the Commission);
JEAN MAYER, president of Tufts University
and an expert on nutrition (Vice Chair);
BESS MYERSON, newspaper columnist and
former commissioner of consumer affairs
for New York City;
STEVEN MULLER, president of Johns Hopkins
University and Johns Hopkins Hospital
(Vice Chair);
HOWARD A. SCHNEIDER, director of the Insti-
tute of Nutrition and professor of biochem-
istry and nutrition at the University of
North Carolina;
ADELE SMITH SIMMONS, president of Hamp-
shire College in Amherst, Mass.;
RAYMOND C. SINGLETARY, JR., of Blakely, Ga.,
president of the Blakely Peanut Co. and
past president of the Georgia Association
of Soil Conservation Districts and the
Southeastern Peanut Association;
EUGENE L. STOCKWELL, of Ridgewood, N.J.,
associate general secretary for overseas min-
istries of the National Council of the
Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.;
CLIFTON R. WHARTON, JR., chancellor of the
State University of New York and a spe-
cialist in economic development.
1511
