Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
lead independent, productive, and ful-
filling lives. At the same time, let us all
resolve to increase our awareness of the
needs of visually handicapped people and
observe those courtesies which enable
them to move about safely and without
needless constraint.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of Au-
gust, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica, the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:54 a.m., August 9, 1978]
National Aviation Year and
Wright Brothers Day, 1978
Proclamation 4584. August 8, 1978
the prowess of American industry have
combined to make aviation a giant among
the Nation's transportation and commu-
nications systems. Air transportation has
become the prime public carrier between
American cities and to international
points. And the movement of cargo, es-
pecially perishable goods, life saving phar-
maceuticals and other high-priority items
important to the public welfare and com-
merce, has become largely dependent
upon the speed, efficiency and safety of air
transport.
Aviation today is one of America's
greatest enterprises and among its largest
employers; a major contributor in the so-
cial and cultural enhancement of the
American public and, in the international
arena, an instrument of signal importance
in the deterrence of aggression and as a
mighty defender of peace.
THEREFORE, in this 75th anniversary
year of powered flight, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
By the President of the United States ica, do hereby designate the year 1978,
of America
A Proclamation
This year, 1978, is the diamond jubilee
anniversary of aviation. Seventy-five years
ago on December 17, at Kitty Hawk,
North Carolina, the Wright Brothers
launched man into the age of powered
flight. The magnitude of the heritage of
Orville and Wilbur Wright is heroic. The
significance of their achievement to men
and women everywhere is profound.
At 10:30 in the morning on that cold
and windy day Orville, aboard his fragile
"Wright Flyer," was driven aloft by a four
cylinder 12 horsepower engine also ingen-
iously fashioned by the two brothers. This
first successful flight in a heavier-than-air
powered aircraft lasted but 12 seconds
and covered a distance of only 120 feet.
In the seventy-five years since that his-
toric flight, the science of aeronautics and
diamond jubilee anniversary of powered
flight, as National Aviation Year. And
further,
To commemorate the historic achieve-
ments of the Wright Brothers, the Con-
gress, by joint resolution of December 17,
1963 (77 Stat. 402, 36 U.S.C. 169), des-
ignated the seventeenth day of December
of each year as Wright Brothers Day and
requested the President to issue annually
a proclamation inviting the people of the
United States to observe that day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby call upon the people of this Na-
tion, and their local and national govern-
ment officials, to observe Wright Brothers
Day, December 17, 1978, with appropri-
ate ceremonies and activities, both to re-
call the accomplishments of the Wright
Brothers and to provide a stimulus to avi-
1396
