Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
between Nicaragua and her immediate Botha, Pieter Botha, and they agreed to
accept the Secretary General's request.
Q. They did?
neighbors.
At that moment several months ago, I
think the prospect of Somoza accepting
any sort of plebiscite would have been
very remote. He has agreed to a plebiscite
under certain restraints. My understand-
ing the last few hours is that his opponents
have now tentatively agreed at least to
those plebiscite terms. A lot of negotiation
still needs to be done, but we are making
progress.
And in the meantime, we have shifted
I don't say we've done it alone, but we
have helped to shift the Nicaraguan cir-
cumstance from active and massive blood-
shed and violence into a negotiation on
the details of a democratic plebiscite, that
would be monitored by the United Nations
or by the OAS, that would decide on the
future government of Nicaragua. We
don't know that we'll be successful, but
I think that in itself is progress.
The same thing applies in Rhodesia
and certainly to a greater and perhaps
better extent in Namibia.
Q. Have you been getting positive feed-
back on the Namibia situation in the last
day or so?
The President. Yes. I think the pros-
pects for Namibian progress were dismal
2 weeks ago. With the Namibian election
plan, which is now under way-I think
the final results of it, it takes about 4 days
to hold an election; first one they've had
in a long time-the Secretary General had
asked the Prime Minister of South Africa
to take full steps—which I don't know
have been revealed publicly, and I'm not
going to reveal them this morning. The
South Africans were very reluctant to
accede to the Secretary General's request.
I invited Pik Botha, the Foreign Min-
ister, to come and meet with me privately.
I urged him to accept the importunities
of the Secretary General. He went back
to South Africa, talked to Prime Minister
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. This has been a
kind of a one-sided proposition. Now, of
course, the next step is to go to SWAPO
and see if they will accept the present
terms. There's nothing certain about it.
Our hope is that this elected body in
Namibia will be looked upon as an interim
step; and that South Africa will retain
responsibility for dealing with the United
Nations; that United Nations force will
be put into Namibia to supervise future
elections that would probably take place
over, after 5 or 6, maybe 7 months; that
the United Nations force will be patently
fair and objective; and that the free ex-
pression of all the people who live in
Namibia be felt in the establishment of a
new government, with SWAPO and the
Turnhalle group represented in accord-
ance with a majority vote and one-person-
one-vote, majority rule. These are the
things that we hope for.
We've had less success in Rhodesia. Al-
though the bloodshed has been more than
we would want, it's been much less than
could have been the case. I think the
British retain primary responsibility there
from an outside point of view. We've
joined in with the British at their request.
Now there's another effort being made
more exclusively by the British. We are
participating in this. They're exploring
the possibility or getting the four powers
together under some framework, and we
don't know what the outcome will be. In
the meantime, we're trying to encourage
all of them to minimize bloodshed and vio-
lence and move toward, again, majority
rule, one person-one vote, free expression
for the will of the people in Zimbabwe, as
it will be named, and let anyone who
wants to run as a candidate do so. These
are the kinds of things we want to do with
the United Nations, retaining peace there.
2178
