Dec. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The USITC recommended that tariffs
on iron or steel bolts, nuts, and large
screws be increased to 20 percent and
staged down to 10 percent (except for
lag screws where the tariff would revert
to its current level of 12.5 percent) over
a five-year period.
I have determined that the USITC
remedy would not be an appropriate rem-
edy for a number of reasons. The USITC
remedy would substantially increase the
cost of ferrous fasteners to U.S. consum-
ers, thereby adding to inflationary pres-
sures in the U.S. economy. Due to its
shorter duration (three years versus five
years as recommended by the USITC)
and smaller tariff increases (15 percent
versus 20 percent), the remedy I will pro-
claim will have a smaller inflationary im-
pact on the U.S. economy, while still pro-
viding meaningful and necessary relief to
the domestic fastener industry.
Given the recent increases in the prices
of imported fasteners, the USITC rem-
edy would be overly restrictive on the for-
eign countries that supply fasteners to the
U.S. market. The smaller tariff increases
that I will proclaim will mitigate the ad-
verse impact of providing import relief on
foreign suppliers of fasteners and on U.S.
international economic interests.
The tariff increase remedy I have
chosen should enable many domestically
produced fasteners to be competitively
priced relative to imports. Thus, imple-
mentation of this remedy should prevent
further erosion of domestic fastener pro-
duction, shipments, and employment and
may allow domestic producers to increase
their share of the U.S. fastener market by
using currently idle capacity.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
American Bolt, Nut, and Large
Screw Industry
Memorandum From the President.
December 22, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination Under Section
202(b) of the Trade Act; Bolts, Nuts,
and Large Screws of Iron or Steel
Pursuant to section 202(b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, 88 Stat.
1978), I have determined the action I
will take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC), transmitted to me on
November 3, 1978, concerning the results
of its investigation of a resolution sub-
mitted by the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives.
The USITC investigation pertained to
lag screws or bolts, bolts (except mine-
roof bolts) and bolts and their nuts im-
ported in the same shipment, nuts, and
screws having shanks or threads over 0.24
inch in diameter, all of the foregoing of
iron or steel, provided for in items 646.49,
646.54, 646.56, 646.63, and 646.79 of the
Tariff Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202(c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief in the form of 15 percent tar-
iffs on iron or steel bolts, nuts, and large
screws is in the national economic interest
and therefore will proclaim this remedy.
Under this remedy, tariffs will remain at
15 percent for large screws (including lag
screws), 15 percent plus the current tar-
iffs of 0.2 and 0.1 cent per pound, respec-
tively, for bolts and nuts for a three-year
period after which time they will revert
to their current levels (which range from
2284
