July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But along with our blessings derived
from God and our citizenship in the
greatest nation on Earth, we have a re-
sponsibility. And my responsibility is no
more intent than yours. You are young,
still in your formative years, still trying
to expand your minds and your hearts to
learn more things and to encompass more
friends, to let your influence be broad-
ened and benevolent, to understand the
attitudes of other people who depend
upon us for leadership and for service.
So, for all these reasons, I'm deeply
grateful for your visit to me. My successes
you can blame on FFA; my failures you
can blame on the fact that I left farming
and went into the Navy for a while.
[Laughter] But there's no doubt that the
attitudes that I learned as a member of
yours and my organization have per-
meated my whole life, and, I think, for
the better.
I'm grateful for what you mean to me
and to our country. I'm even more grate-
ful for what you will mean in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Affirmative Action Programs
Memorandum From the President.
July 20, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Since my Administration began, I have
been strongly committed to a policy of
affirmative action. It is through such
programs that we can expect to remove
the effects of discrimination and ensure
equal opportunities for all Americans.
With your help, this Administration
has been able to develop and implement
meaningful affirmative action programs
throughout the Federal government, and
as a result minority employment has in-
creased to its highest level in history.
The recent decision by the Supreme
Court in Bakke enables us to continue
those efforts without interruption. That
historic decision indicates that properly
tailored affirmative action plans, which
provide minorities with increased access
to federal programs and jobs and which
are fair to all Americans, are consistent
with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
with the Constitution.
I want to make certain that, in the
aftermath of Bakke, you continue to de-
velop, implement and enforce vigorously
affirmative action programs. I also want
to make certain that the Administration's
strong commitment to equal opportunity
and affirmative action is recognized and
understood by all Americans.
JIMMY CARTER
United States Ambassador
to Malawi
Nomination of Harold E. Horan.
July 20, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Harold E. Horan, of
Bellaire, Tex., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Malawi.
He would replace Robert A. Stevenson,
who has resigned.
Horan was born June 16, 1927, in
Houston, Tex. He received a B.B.A.
(1950) and an LL.D. (1953) from the
University of Houston. He served in the
U.S. Army Air Force from 1945 to 1946.
Horan joined the Foreign Service in
1957 and served in Tehran, Florence,
Bamako, and at the State Department.
From 1969 to 1972, he was an interna-
tional relations officer at the State De-
1320
