Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 10
that will be established to determine how
LEAA funds are spent locally. These ac-
tions will reenforce the neighborhood
anti-crime proposal announced recently
in our urban policy.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE
Although the Federal, State and local
governments spend billions of dollars each
year in their effort to combat crime and
improve their criminal justice systems,
we do not have adequate tools to assess
the impact of these dollars in reducing
crime or improving our justice system.
To date, Federal leadership in devel-
oping the necessary tools has been unco-
ordinated, fragmented, and has generally
lacked focus.
My proposal will remedy this problem
by creating a National Institute of Justice
within the Justice Department. The In-
stitute will replace two existing units, the
National Institute for Law Enforcement
and Criminal Justice and the National
Institute of Corrections, and part of a
third unit, the Institute of Juvenile De-
velopment and Research. The National
Institute of Justice will be authorized to
undertake basic and applied research,
and to conduct evaluations and sponsor
demonstrations in the civil and criminal
justice areas.
It will centralize the Federal effort to
determine how the Federal, State and
local governments can most effectively
attack the crime problem and strengthen
their justice system.
To ensure the independence and integ-
rity of the Institute's efforts, its Director
will have final authority for all grants and
contracts made by the Institute.
An advisory board to the Institute will
be composed of a broadly based group of
academic experts, State and local offi-
cials, neighborhood and community lead-
ers and citizens. The board will have au-
thority to develop, in conjunction with
the Director, policies and priorities for
the National Institute of Justice.
BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS
One of the most valuable services pro-
vided by the Federal government in the
criminal justice area is the compilation
of statistics. However, the Federal effort
here has also lacked a central focus and
direction.
Under my proposal, a Bureau of Jus-
tice Statistics will be created in the De-
partment of Justice. The Bureau will be
authorized to collect, analyze and dis-
seminate statistics on criminal and civil
justice matters. As a result, the Federal
government will be able to provide crime
statistics which are reliable and uniform.
An advisory board to the Bureau will
consist of researchers, statisticians, State
and local officials and citizens. The board
would have authority to recommend to
the Director policies and priorities for
the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
To coordinate the operation of the
streamlined LEAA, the National Insti-
tute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice
Statistics, the Department of Justice will
establish the Office of Justice Assistance,
Research and Statistics. That Office will
be responsible for ensuring that each of
these three organizations attacks our
criminal and civil justice problems in a
focused and complementary way.
The "Justice System Improvement Act
of 1978" lays the foundation for an effec-
tive Federal program of financial assist-
ance, research and statistics and is vitally
important to assist States, local govern-
ments and citizens groups in combating
and improving the quality of the justice
programs. I urge the Congress to give
this proposal prompt and favorable con-
sideration.
The White House,
July 10, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
1249
