Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
believe that our Nation could be better,
could be more honest, could be more de-
cent, could be more filled with justifiable
pride than was the case 2 or 3 years ago,
when our Nation had been embarrassed
with the failures of a Republican adminis-
tration, when our farmers were facing an-
other recession, or even depression. Prices
were down. Every month or two the
Republican administration would declare
an embargo against the sale of American
grain products overseas. And I pledged
in my campaign and never, as long as I
was President, would we ever embargo the
sale of American farm products to for-
eign markets, and we'll never do it. And
we are now setting records every year in
the export of farm products overseas.
We also had a problem with unemploy-
ment. When I was elected President, we
had 10 million Americans who were look-
ing for a full-time job and could not find
it. Seven million Americans could not find
a job at all. Congress helped me, and we
set a goal for ourselves to add new jobs to
the American societal structure.
Since then we have had a net increase
of 62 million new jobs. The unemploy-
ment rate is down 25 percent; in Michi-
gan, 35 percent. It needs to come down
further, and I need a United States Sen-
ator there to represent Michigan, along
with Don Riegle, who wants to be Sena-
tor, who will work at it, who will help me
get the inflation rate down, help me get
better life for farmers and put our people
back to work.
Carl Levin will not be my man. He has
proven that he's a man who is not afraid
to fight powerful political figures, and
Carl Levin is not afraid to fight the bu-
reaucracy. He has proven this in his own
community, and he will prove it, when he
gets to the Senate, for the entire State of
Michigan and also for the country that we
both love. It's very important to control
the bureaucracy, to cut down waste, to ini-
tiate ethics, and to make sure that our
public officials are honest. Carl Levin is a
man who's not afraid to tackle the bu-
reaucracy, and I need somebody that will
come there and work full-time with me to
bring some order out of government.
I'd like to remind you of this: Now the
polls show a slight advantage for the Dem-
ocratic candidate for Senate. But the last
few days can make a difference. I've seen
it happen over and over and over the last
2 or 3 years, when people got complacent,
took a victory for granted, and the Dem-
ocrats got out-spent on television, radio,
billboards,
billboards, telephone calls, newspapers,
the last few days.
Carl Levin's opponent will spend over
$2 million on his campaign for reelection.
Carl Levin, as is typical with Democrats,
will spend about one-third that amount.
What can make the difference? Being a
better candidate? Yes. We have that ad-
vantage. But what Carl Levin needs is
friends, supporters, neighbors, those who
believe in a greater Michigan, who will
get out and work these last 4 days in a
sacrificial way and be, in effect, every one
of you, a campaign manager for the Dem-
ocratic ticket. If so, we'll go over the top
next Tuesday night.
I'd like to tell you about two things that
happened to me in the last few weeks.
One was last week. I was in the State of
Connecticut. When I campaigned there
2 or 3 years ago, that State was quite dis-
couraged. Industry was moving out every
week. The unemployment rate was ex-
tremely high. Connecticut has a dynamic
Governor, Governor Ella Grasso. She be-
lieves that the Governorship ought to be
a place for dynamism, aggression, and a
hard fight day by day to make her State
better. She has brought in the last year
260 new industries and cut the unemploy-
ment rate in half.
I believe Michigan is ready for that
kind of dynamic and aggressive fighter as
1933
