Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
formerly used for heroin. This has been
successful.
At the same time, we tried to restrict the
shift of drug production, not just from
heroin to something else but to reduce it
overall. We've still got a serious problem
with marijuana. I think we've inter-
cepted-over 17,000 pounds? 1,700 to
I've
17,000 [1,700,000],2
forgotten
which I saw the figures this morning—
of marijuana in the last 8 months, more
than any 2-year period in history.
We do still have a problem of cocaine.
As you know, the coca leaves are produced
in nations to the south of Colombia. Much
of it is processed in Colombia, and that's
been a major avenue of drugs. But we've
had good cooperation now from the Co-
lombian Government. We are forming al-
liances with them, actually signing docu-
ments that share responsibility. We
provide some technical assistance, some
helicopter services, a free exchange of in-
formation between our authorities and
theirs. We've had very good, unprece-
dented cooperation at the top level.
But narcotics control is a major
element of our relationship with the Latin
American countries. They all see it as the
most threatening source of corruption and
even destruction of their own governmen-
tal society. And I've had long talks with
President Lopez Michelsen and others, in
Colombia and Mexico and different coun-
tries about this subject.
EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS; CUBA
I might say-looking at my notes-
there are a couple of things that I forgot
to mention.
One is that we've tried to remove the
problem of prisoner exchange. And we've
already signed, I think, exemplary treaties
with Mexico and Bolivia, so that if Ameri-
2 White House correction.
cans are incarcerated in their prisons or
their nationals are in our prisons, we can
exchange those prisoners if the prisoners
have no objection. This is a pattern that
I think might be very well emulated in
other countries around the world. We're
trying now to do the same thing in Tur-
key, for instance. And this is another step
forward.
And the other thing is a very sensitive
issue that perhaps I ought not even bring
up, and that's Cuba-a very serious prob-
lem for us, our relationship with Cuba.
We have opened an interests section in
Havana; they have one here-not diplo-
matic relations at all, but it gives us an
avenue of communications. And on occa-
sion we do have our top officials meet
with Cuban officials to try to work out
some humanitarian projects.
There have been several hundred Cu-
bans who have been released now; many
of them have already arrived in our coun-
try. This is being done in negotiations
through the State Department, admin-
istered through the Justice Department,
and these are citizens with joint nation-
ality. And there will be a large number
of Cuban prisoners released before long.
And we're trying to do this as a step in
the right direction.
Obviously, the Cubans' heavy military
presence and unwarranted intrusion into
the internal affairs of African countries
has been a major obstacle to any further
progress.
But that kind of rounds out the things
that I wanted to discuss.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, both in the conver-
sations with some of your junior col-
leagues who met with us this morning
and in the broadest context Dr. Brzezin-
ski very loosely sketched for us today, cited
again as a premise for assessment this ab-
solutely transcendent factor of the trans-
1600
