Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population
if necessary for reasons of public safety,
administration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:07 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Wrangell-St. Elias National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
Yukon-Charley National
Monument
Proclamation 4626. December 1, 1978
scientific features of great significance.
The Upper Yukon River basin contains
historic remains of early mining activity,
and includes outstanding paleontological
resources and ecologically diverse natural
resources, offering many opportunities for
scientific and historic study and research.
The area provides breeding habitat for
the endangered peregrine falcon, and
may produce about one-fourth of the
known individuals of the anatum pere-
grine subspecies in its northern habitat.
Wildlife also include isolated wild popu-
lations of Dall sheep, moose, bear, wolf,
and other large mammals. Nearly 200
species of birds, including 20 different
raptors, are present in the area.
Geological and paleontological features
within the area are exceptional, including
a nearly unbroken visible series of rock
strata representing a range in geologic
time from pre-Cambrian to Recent. The
oldest exposures contain fossils estimated
to be 700 million years old, including the
earliest forms of animal life. A large array
of Ice Age fossils occurs in the area.
Within the area is the Charley River
basin, parts of which were unglaciated,
preserving relict Pleistocene plant com-
munities. The Charley River is considered
to be one of the cleanest and clearest of
the major rivers in Alaska, and thereby
offers excellent opportunities for scien-
tific studies. In the upper Charley River
basin, artifacts occur dating back possibly
11,000 years, attesting to the presence of
ancient hunters who were the ancestors
of the modern Athapascan people.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of the
By the President of the United States historical, archeological, biological, geo-
of America
A Proclamation
The Yukon-Charley National Monu-
ment, an area in east-central Alaska, in-
cludes a combination of historic and
logical and other phenomena enumerated
above supports now, as it has in the past,
the unique subsistence culture of the local
residents. The continued existence of this
culture, which depends on subsistence
hunting, and its availability for study, en-
2140
