Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
from the increase in competition and the
guarantees of quality services to smaller
communities. Taxpayers will benefit from
the orderly phasing out of the functions of
the Civil Aeronautics Board and from the
sound precedent this bill sets for dealing
with other over-regulated industries.
This bill would not have been possible
without the early leadership of Senator
Ted Kennedy, who's here with us, and
Senator Howard Cannon, who worked in
a yeoman's way for the passage of this
legislation. I want to especially thank
them for first raising this issue and bring-
ing it to public attention.
I also want to thank Chairman Bizz
Johnson and Glenn Anderson-who's not
here-and Allen Ertel. Glenn is back
here-[laughter]-Bizz Johnson is not
here-and Allen Ertel for the cooperation
and leadership that they showed in pass-
ing this exemplary anti-inflation legisla-
tion.
Chairman Bizz Johnson couldn't come,
is that correct?
Well, it's with a great pleasure that I
sign now into law Senate bill 2493, to
deregulate the airline industry of our
country. It's a major step forward for con-
sumers, for the airline industries as well,
and especially for those who use air trans-
portation for their purposes.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
I'd like to ask Chairman Howard Can-
non if he would like to make a comment.
SENATOR CANNON. Well, thank you
very much, Mr. President. I certainly
agree with you that this is a great day in
deregulation of the regulatory structure. I
think it's extremely important to the coun-
try. I think, as you do, that it's going to
be important not only to the consumers
but important to the air carriers as well,
though they did not believe so at the be-
ginning. And I'm delighted to see that it's
finally signed into law.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Ted Kennedy?
SENATOR KENNEDY. Mr. President, I
just want to join in commending you for
your leadership in this important legisla-
tive achievement and also for the biparti-
san support that was received. It was
really a bipartisan effort.
It meets the objectives which you've
established in the problems of inflation,
getting the Federal Government out of an
important industry. It's going to mean
more jobs and better services for people.
And I hope that we can do the same in
other areas of economic regulation.
THE PRESIDENT. Glenn Anderson,
who's very much present.
REPRESENTATIVE ANDERSON. Yes, very
much present. [Laughter]
you,
Well, thank Mr. President. I want
to say that I'm very pleased with the legis-
lation. I think that we have worked out a
good bill. The committees have worked
hard to iron out any differences we might
have had at the start. And I think that's
one of the reasons we do find there's very
few opponents to the bill today.
And I would be remiss if I didn't say
that the support of the administration in
helping us get this bill through both
Houses was very, very obvious, and we
thank you very much for it.
THE PRESIDENT. I particularly want to
thank two people that I mentioned briefly.
One is Alfred Kahn, the Chairman of the
CAB. He and his predecessor had, within
the bounds of the law, put as many of
these reforms into effect as was possible.
And they proved, as the law was being
considered, that these reforms worked.
And it made it possible, I believe, to con-
vince those who did doubt the efficacy of
1838
