Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
tion, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.),
and under or confirmed in the Alaska
Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preced-
ing Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section
17(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in
this Proclamation is intended to modify
or revoke the terms of the Memorandum
of Understanding dated September 1,
1972, entered into between the State of
Alaska and the United States as part of
the negotiated settlement of Alaska v.
Morton, Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska,
Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are ap-
propriate, including regulation of the op-
portunity to engage in a subsistence life-
style by local residents. The Secretary
may close the national monument, or any
portion thereof, to subsistence uses of a
particular fish, wildlife or plant popula-
tion if necessary for reasons of public
safety, administration, or to ensure the
natural stability or continued viability of
such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of
this monument and not to locate or set-
tle upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:56 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Bering Land Bridge National Monument
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of De-
cember 5, 1978.
Cape Krusenstern National
Monument
Proclamation 4615. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The area of northwest Alaska known
as Cape Krusenstern contains an arch-
eological record of great significance.
The Cape's bluffs and its series of one
hundred fourteen horizontal beach
ridges hold an archeological record of
every major cultural period associated
with habitation of the Alaska coastline
in the last 5000 years.
The unglaciated lands lying inland,
including the Kakagrak Hills, the Rab-
bit Creek area and others, have an old-
er archeological record dating back to
pre-Eskimo periods of at least 8000 years
ago. This continuum of evidence is of
great historic and scientific importance
in the study of human survival and cul-
tural evolution.
There are in this area examples of
other unique natural processes. The
2119
