Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
providing abundant evidence of the mi-
gration of plants and animals onto the
continent in the ages before the human
migrations. The arctic conditions here are
favorable to the preservation of this pale-
ontological record from minute pollen
grains and insects to the large mammals
such as the mammoth.
The monument is also the summering
area for a number of Old World bird
species, which feed and nest in the area.
It is one of the few places in North Amer-
ica where ornithologists are able to study
these species.
The diversity of the soils, topography,
permafrost action and climate within the
monument leads to an excellent represen-
tation of varied, yet interrelated tundra
plant communities. Their proximity and
diversity make the area a prime outdoor
laboratory.
The area is also rich in volcanics. Here
is the opportunity to study unique Arctic
lava flows which erupted through deep
permafrost. The tubes and cracks of these
flows are now filled with the sheen of
per-
manent ice. In the Devil Mountain area
are the uniquely paired maar explosion
craters which were formed by violent ex-
plosions resulting from the steam pressure
released when the hot volcanic ejecta con-
tacted the water and ice that covered this
wetland area. These craters are now crys-
tal clear lakes bounded by a shoreline of
volcanic ash, cinders and scoria.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of the
geological, archeological, paleontological,
biological and other phenomena enumer-
ated above supports now, as it has in the
past, the unique subsistence culture of the
local residents. The continued existence
of this culture, which depends on subsist-
ence hunting, and its availability for study,
enhance the historic and scientific values
of the natural objects protected herein be-
cause of the ongoing interaction of the
subsistence culture with those objects. Ac-
cordingly, the opportunity for local resi-
dents to engage in subsistence hunting is
a value to be protected and will continue
under the administration of the monu-
ment.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national mon-
uments, and to reserve as part thereof
parcels of land, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim
that there are hereby set apart and re-
served as the Bering Land Bridge National
Monument all lands, including submerged
lands, and waters owned or controlled by
the United States within the boundaries
of the area depicted as the Bering Land
Bridge National Monument on the map
numbered BELA-90,006 attached to and
forming a part of this Proclamation. The
area reserved consists of approximately
2,590,000 acres, and is the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
Lands, including submerged lands, and
waters within these boundaries not owned
by the United States shall be reserved as
a part of the monument upon acquisition
of title thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
2118
