Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 15, 1978
Memphis, Tennessee
Remarks at the Opening Session of the 1978
National Democratic Party Conference.
December 8, 1978
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, dis-
tinguished officials of our various govern-
ments in a great country, and fellow
Democrats:
What you and I just watched was one
of the best network news programs I've
seen since I've been President.ยน [Laugh-
ter]
I have to say that I've not been to very
many, and I don't know what I will ex-
perience in the future, but so far I like
Democratic conventions very much.
It is an honor for me to speak before
the most open, honest, progressive, com-
passionate political organization in the
world today, our Democratic Party. And
we are also the oldest continuing politi-
cal party in the world. And after the
American people spoke so clearly last
month, we are still the majority political
party in the United States, and we're
going to stay that way.
1 The President was referring to a Demo-
cratic National Committee sponsored film
called "Partners in Progress," which was shown
at the conference prior to his remarks.
Ours is a party of practical dreamers.
Thomas Jefferson conceived of the
United States of America as no other
nation had ever tried to be-dedicated to
human fulfillment, where individual lib-
erty was guaranteed. But Thomas Jeffer-
son also founded a university; he collected
a national library; he planned beautiful
cities; he mapped the wilderness; and as
a farmer, he invented a better plow-
typical of Democrats. Time and again in
our history, the Democratic Party has
given new life and new meaning to our
Nation's oldest dreams.
When a generation of hard-working
Americans was robbed by the Depression
of a lifetime of savings, the New Deal
restored economic security and vision and
brought new hope because of the vision
of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
When a devastated Europe was threat-
ened by economic chaos, political frag-
mentation, and alien ideologies, the Mar-
shall plan and NATO sustained and
strengthened our crucial alliance because
of the courage of Harry Truman.
And when an uncontrolled arms race
threatened the devastation of nuclear
war, a test ban treaty took the first cru-
cial steps toward peace under the bold
leadership of John F. Kennedy.
When black Americans challenged our
Nation's conscience to fulfill the historic
2189
