July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
country. I never know ahead of time what
the questions might be. I'm not nearly so
familiar with your own society and your
own current problems as I would be in a
city in the United States, but I've tried to
answer your questions as best I could.
I've derived from my brief visit here
a clearer understanding of the strength
and courage required by those of you who
live in Berlin to maintain not only a stand-
ard of living which is even higher than
that in my own country but also a spirit
of freedom and a preservation of your
own superb cultural traits that I hope will
be permanent. We are your partners. We
are your allies. We do this not just for
your own benefit, because our own Nation
is protected, the freedom of my own
people is protected to the extent that you
and your own freedoms can be preserved
by joint commitment of our two nations
and those of our other allies.
So, I come here not as someone who
does you a favor, but as someone who
benefits greatly as a President and as an
American from the strong ties of friend-
ship, economics, politics, military alliances
that preserves freedom, not just for you
but for us as well.
I thank you for giving me a chance to
hear of your concerns, and the hospitality
that you've extended to me, to my wife,
Rosalynn, and to Amy. We hope to be able
to come back. We hope as many
of you
as possible will visit our own country. And
I think you would find there is warmth,
a sense of common purpose and friend-
ship, as I have found here.
God bless every one of you. Thank you
for letting me be your guest.
PETER LORENZ. Mr. President, on be-
half of all those in this hall and on be-
half of the city, I should like to thank you
most cordially for this frank and open dis-
cussion with the Berliners of this Berlin
town meeting. I think we are all agreed
that this was one of the highlights of your
Berlin visit.
I think, Mr. President, you will have
felt how close the citizens of Berlin feel
associated with you, Mr. President, and
the United States of America. This is of
special significance that the meeting takes
place here in the Kongresshalle. It was
given to our city by the Benjamin Frank-
lin Foundation. It bears the name of that
President of the United States of
America who so strongly promoted free-
dom and dignity and rights of man in the
world.
You, Mr. President, are leaving no
stone unturned to realize human rights in
this world. And you are assured that we
in Berlin, in this divided city, a city di-
vided by a wall, do with great engagement
support your efforts, Mr. President, for
human rights. We are happy. We feel
honored. We are grateful for your com-
ing to Berlin. Your presence underscores
the great significance and reputation of
the city and the consciousness of the
people of America which you represent,
Mr. President.
We are most grateful to you, for you
have stated here a moment ago that you
support the claim and the right of the
German nation to become reunited.
Thank you very much from the bottom of
my heart, on behalf of all of us, Mr.
President.
We are very glad that you and your
family, Mr. President, will spend a few
pleasant hours in Berlin. When you leave
Berlin in a few hours' time, our good
wishes will accompany you. And thank
you, sir, and thank you, American people,
for the support you have given us here in
Berlin.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4 p.m. at the Kongresshalle, following an in-
troduction by Governing Mayor of Berlin Diet-
rich Stobbe. Peter Lorenz is president of the
Berlin Senate.
in German, and their remarks were translated
The participants in the town meeting spoke
by an interpreter. The town meeting was broad-
cast live in the United States.
1306
