Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 3
associated with recent Supreme Court de-
cisions and simplifies federal regulation.
As you know, the effects of enacting
this compromise go well beyond the natu-
ral gas industry. During the last several
months, it has become increasingly evi-
dent that Congressional action on natural
will have a direct impact on our Na-
gas
tion's economic well-being.
This year our trade deficit may be the
highest in the Nation's history. One of
the largest contributors to that deficit is
imported oil, which is now running at
an annual rate of $42 billion. The ap-
proximately 1.4 million barrels per day
savings resulting from the natural gas bill
equals the savings of all the other energy
conference reports combined. Because the
existing gas surplus in producing states
could now be used in interstate markets,
the natural gas bill also provides the most
immediate and direct oil import savings
in the four energy conference reports.
first six months of this year, the consumer
price index rose by 10.4 percent. By stem-
ming the decline of the dollar's value, the
gas bill will help eliminate this source of
inflation. At present, every 1 percent de-
cline in the dollar's value against the cur-
rencies of the countries from whom we
import adds 0.1 percent to the consumer
price index.
We cannot afford to allow another
gas
Congressional Session to end without a
natural bill and a national energy
policy. If we fail to act, the consequences
are clear and unfortunate-gas supplies
will remain in the producing states while
oil imports continue to increase; the Na-
tion will still lack a national energy pol-
icy; the trade deficit will remain unac-
ceptably large; we will lose an important
source of strength for the dollar.
Clearly, as national leaders we must
rise above competing interests, narrow
regional concerns, and short-term politi-
cal considerations. We must act in the do-
mestic and international interests of our
country above all else. With the eyes of
the world upon us, we cannot afford to
fail this test of our national will.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The texts of the letters were released on
September 2.
One of the other obvious effects of not
having a national energy policy has been
the dollar's erosion against other curren-
cies. Since April of last year, the dollar's
value has declined 16 percent against the
German mark, 34 percent against the
Swiss franc, and 31 percent against the
Japanese yen. Unless Congress acts soon
on a natural gas bill, the world will re-
main convinced of our unwillingness to
face the energy problem, with continuing
uncertainties and pressures on the dollar Id al-Fitr
in foreign exchange markets. Over the
past year, leaders of the world's major
economic countries have attributed a sub-
stantial part of the decline of the dollar
directly to our failure to adopt a national
energy plan. The Chairman of the Fed-
eral Reserve System has informed me that
he shares this view.
Both the substantial trade deficit and
the slide in the value of the dollar ad-
versely affect the inflation rate. For the
Statement by the President.
September 3, 1978
Rosalynn and I are pleased to extend
warmest good wishes to our fellow citizens
of the Muslim faith who will be celebrat-
ing Id al-Fitr. May this joyous occasion
bring each of you the fullest measure of
happiness and satisfaction.
You can take great pride in the con-
structive influence you have on American
1489
