Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mexico to conclude, hopefully, these con-
tinuing negotiations.
I think that pretty well encompasses
what we are doing at this point on Mexico.
It's of very great importance to
There'll be a great deal of staff work and
Cabinet-level work between now and Feb-
ruary in both nations, and I hope that
my own visit with López Portillo can con-
clude successfully these negotiations on a
wide range of subjects.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Could you tell us, Mr. President,
about what progress is being made and
what the prospects now are towards a
SALT agreement? And I wonder if, with-
out attempting to hang you up on any
more predictions, you will have one to dis-
cuss at Guadeloupe in January?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know I doubt
if we will have a final agreement to go
over with the other European leaders in
Guadeloupe, but we will have the SALT
proposals that we have in almost final-
our proposals, probably, in final form,
when we get to Guadeloupe, and an ac-
curate description to the other leaders of
the remaining differences, if any, at that
time.
I might say that we keep other leaders,
certainly including Schmidt, Callaghan,
Giscard d'Estaing, briefed very well on the
progress of SALT negotiations on a con-
tinuing basis, either with direct secret
messages from me to them, sometimes on
a nonclassified basis in private telephone
calls between me and them, and so forth.
As you know, many facets of the SALT II
agreement apply directly to the European
theater, and, as we prepare for SALT III,
this has a much more direct effect on the
European theater.
I have been pleased recently with the
progress being made on SALT. The re-
maining differences are minor, compared
to what they were a year ago, and in my
own mind I can see a way to resolve them.
If the Soviets are adequately forthcoming,
I would guess that any further delay
would be minimal.
Q. What steps, say between now and
then, can you anticipate in the way of
contacts, meetings, and discussion between
ourselves and the Soviets?
THE PRESIDENT. I think an almost in-
evitable progress would be to continue to
define the narrowing differences. And
there's been steady progress; there never
has been a time when we retrogressed on
SALT. Then I think there would be a
preparation period for a summit meeting,
certainly at the Foreign Minister level,
between Secretary Vance and Gromyko,
and possibly others, and then a summit
meeting between myself and Brezhnev,
whenever he and I agree there would be
a reasonable opportunity for success.
I think because of their attitude, which
I have assessed over the last-almost 2
years, President Brezhnev's inclination is
not to have a summit meeting unless there
is a sure conclusion of SALT in prospect.
But I would like to have, if he should
come over here, a 4- or 5-day period
where we might discuss a broad range of
agenda items and not narrowly focus it
just on military items. And of course, that
would require very careful preparation.
I can't give you any further informa-
tion. I don't know anything about dates.
It's still just a general outline of how it
might go about. But that's my present
thinking.
PRESS SECRETARY POWELL. About one
more question here.
THE PRESIDENT. One more question?
All right.
TAX-EXEMPT STATUS FOR PRIVATE
SCHOOLS
Q. Mr. President, the IRS has a plan
to penalize schools that desegregate by
2180
