Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 4
of complete deregulation of oil and/or gas.
I think Harry Truman vetoed back as far
as 1950 a bill that was passed by the Con-
gress deregulating natural gas. We've
tried to make sure that the consumers are
protected in this respect.
I believe that we have also a very good
chance to pass the civil service reform leg-
islation. I know this is of concern to some
of you.
We would like to change into law the
Executive order under which Federal em-
ployees now carry out their legitimate bar-
gaining rights. As you know, as long as
it's only an Executive order, in case of an
emergency or if we had a President in
office who was not friendly with labor, just
by the stroke of a pen the order could be
renounced and terminated. And we are
trying to put this into law. There are some
who are opposing the civil service reform
and they might prevent this happening at
all.
I think rather than my outlining to you
the problems that we have and the op-
portunities we have with defense and for-
eign affairs, it might be better for me to
spend the rest of the time answering your
questions.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that
I can, and then following that, if you don't
mind, for about 3 minutes or so I would
like to ask my staff to call time so that you
can come by, and it might give me a
chance to have an individual photograph
made with you.
Yes?
QUESTIONS
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
REGULATIONS
Q. Mr. President, I am Jerry Archu-
leta, editor of the Oil, Chemical and
Atomic Workers newspaper, from Den-
ver, Colorado.
As far as my union is concerned, one
of the greatest achievements of your ad-
ministration is the change you have made
in the Labor Department, and particularly
in the direction that OSHA is taking.
Your appointment of Ray Marshall
and Dr. Bingham have been nothing but
beneficial as far as working people of this
country are concerned. And thousands of
lives have been saved, and many more
thousands of lives have been lengthened
and prolonged as a result of the changes
that have taken place.
My question is: Do you think the eco-
nomic impact on companies such as the
textile industry or the inflationary impact
on the U.S. economy should serve as con-
straints on your administration when it
comes to protecting the well-being and
the health and safety of American
workers?
THE PRESIDENT. Belatedly in our coun-
try we have had an aroused citizenry influ-
ence government at all levels to give us
protection that we formerly have not
had the general public in air pollution,
water pollution, for instance, and the
workers themselves in health and safety.
The corrective action that has been im-
plemented has been long overdue, and
we still are feeling our way along about
how this can be made more effective.
One thing we did, for instance, with
miners, was to put the administration of
the health and safety regulations under
the Department of Labor itself. I think
it'll be more attuned to the specific needs
of workers.
We've tried to do this in such a way
that it could get the approval of em-
ployers and the general public. I think
for a long time, because of an inadequate
commitment to what OSHA stands for,
the previous administration got bogged
down in sometimes frivolous and ridic-
ulous writing of rules and regulations that
not only did not protect the workers ade-
quately but turned the general public and
the employer against the program itself.
1491
