Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
country, Democrats and Republicans. In
1960 in the United States, two-thirds of
the American people went to the polls to
elect John Kennedy President and to vote
for the Democratic ticket. Two-thirds
voted. The projections for Monday, un-
less people are inspired to run their own
affairs, are that two-thirds of the Ameri-
can people will not vote.
It's very important that you go to the
polls and cast your ballot. It's not enough
to come to a rally or even to work for a
candidate during a long, tedious, trying,
difficult campaign. Every time we have
three people who do not vote, two of
them ordinarily are Democrats. And when
you have polled the opinion of all voters
and then poll the ones who are most likely
to vote, the Democratic lead in almost
every election is cut in half.
It's important for us to project our own
voice, our own influence, to assess our
Nation's needs, and to help resolve diffi-
cult problems.
It's not easy being an incumbent in
these days. But I think we've brought a
new light, not only to California, under
Jerry Brown's leadership, but to our Na-
tion as well.
I'd like for you to think back just 2 or
3 years, at the situation as it was before
we had a Democratic administration in
Washington. Our Nation was discour-
aged. People had lost confidence in our
Government. We were involved in a war
in Vietnam. We had the Watergate
scandals, when top people in our Gov-
ernment were being sent to prison. The
CIA revelations showed that important
elements of the American Government
were violating the law and getting away
with it.
When I became President, 10 million
Americans could not find a full-time job.
The unemployment rate was 8 percent.
Every time the United Nations General
Assembly met in New York in the fall,
we were all embarrassed, because our
great Nation, which we love, became the
butt of every joke and the target of every
attack by two-thirds of the nations on
Earth.
We had lost our spirit. We were not
identified as one that was trying to search
for peace throughout the world. We were
attaching ourselves to disreputable ad-
ministrations in other countries in order
to pursue doubtful political goals. We had
lost touch with the idealism that made
our Nation great.
We've tried to turn that around. We've
cut the unemployment rate by 25 percent.
We've added 6½ million net jobs. We're
trying to get inflation under the control.
If you'll help me, we'll succeed.
We've now gotten the dollar back into
a strong position. We've raised the banner
of human rights. We've made sure that
we're meeting the services of our people.
We've cut taxes $28 billion. We're try-
ing to bring some order out of chaos in the
civil service system. We're letting the peo-
ple who do a good job be rewarded, let-
ting managers manage. We've cut the
deficit almost 50 percent already. So, these
kind of things on the domestic scene are
the results of a good Democratic team.
I'd like to mention, as well, that we
have the strongest nation on Earth. We're
the strongest politically; we're the strong-
est economically; we're the strongest
militarily.
We do have the strongest defense, and
we're going to stay that way. But we use
our defense strength not to abuse others,
not to impose our will on smaller na-
tions, but to work for peace-peace for
ourselves and peace for others. Since I've
been in the White House-and I hope as
long as I'm there-there has never been
an American in uniform who shed blood
in a foreign country in conflict. And if
you'll help me, we'll maintain that peace-
ful record.
1948
