Sept. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Committee for the Preservation
of the White House
Appointment of Richard A. Manoogian
as a Member. September 5, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Richard A. Manoogian, of
Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich., as a member
of the Committee for the Preservation of
the White House.
Manoogian, 42, is president and direc-
tor of Masco Corp., a diversified manufac-
turing firm. He is a trustee of the Archives
of American Art, the Center for Creative
Studies in Detroit, and the Detroit Insti-
tute of Arts.
tor of the Commission, and that William
P. Hobgood will serve as Coordinator of
Labor Relations Programs for the Com-
mission.
Koleda, 36, was Director of the White
House Conference on Balanced Growth,
which presented its report to the President
in July 1978. He is a former vice president
of the National Planning Association and
of the National
director of its domestic division. He has
also been a Brookings Institution eco-
nomic policy fellow.
Hobgood, 39, is Director of Mediation
Services for the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service. He has been active in
labor relations since 1965 and has served
as a mediator in several cities.
President's Commission on
the Coal Industry
Appointment of Two Members, Staff
Director, and Coordinator of Labor Relations
Programs. September 5, 1978
The President today announced two
members of the President's Commission on
the Coal Industry. They are:
JESSE CORE, 65, of State College, Pa. Core is
adjunct professor of mining engineering at
the Pennsylvania State University. Core re-
tired from U.S. Steel Corp. in 1977 after a
26-year career, including 18 years as vice
president. Before joining U.S. Steel Core
worked as a mining engineer for several coal
companies, and as a coal miner.
MARVIN FRIEDMAN, 55, vice president of Rut-
tenberg, Friedman, Kilgallon, Gutchess &
Associates, Inc., a Washington firm of econo-
mists and manpower specialists. Friedman
was previously a staff economist and assist-
ant director of research for the AFL-CIO.
The President also announced that Mi-
chael S. Koleda will serve as Staff Direc-
National Corporation for
Housing Partnerships
Nomination of Three Members of the Board
of Directors. September 6, 1978
The President today announced three
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
National Corporation for Housing Part-
nerships. They are:
PATRICIA K. RITTER, of Hartford, Conn., chair-
man of the board of the Mutual Real Estate
Investment Trust in New York City and di-
rector, cofounder, and former president of
the Connecticut Housing Investment Fund
in Hartford;
HERMAN J. RUSSELL, of Atlanta, Ga., chair-
man of the board of the Citizens Trust Com-
pany Bank and president and chairman of
the board of Georgia-Southeastern Land Co.;
KENNON V. ROTHCHILD, of Mahtomedi, Minn.,
chairman of the board of directors and chief
executive officer of H. & Val J. Rothchild,
Inc., a mortgage banking firm, and of Roth-
child Financial Corp. in St. Paul, Minn.
1500
