Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 13
at the Interior Department. In 1970, with
the enactment of the Federal Coal Mine
Health and Safety Act of 1969, he be-
came a senior trial attorney with the
newly formed Division of Mine Health
and Safety at Interior.
In 1974 Backley was certified as an ad-
ministrative law judge. The same year he
was promoted to the position of Assist-
ant Solicitor in the Division of Mine
This report describes activities prior to
the beginning of my Administration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
July 13, 1978.
NOTE: The 33-page report is entitled "The
Federal Coal Mine Health Program in 1976:
Seventh Annual Report of Health Activities
Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969-U.S. Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health
Health and Safety, where he supervised Service, Center for Disease Control, National
a staff of 19 attorneys which handled all
administrative proceedings involving
mine safety before administrative law
judges.
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health."
Since 1975 Backley has been an admin- Agreement on Namibia
istrative law judge with the Civil Aero-
nautics Board.
Federal Coal Mine Health
Activities
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. July 13, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the 1976 Annual
Report of Health Activities under the
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety
Act of 1969.
I recommend that the statutory report-
ing requirement for this report be changed
from once every year to once every three
years. HEW staff resources and time could
be better spent on more research rather
than on the preparation of annual reports
of largely repetitious material. Basic in-
formation in this field has been known for
some time, and new findings develop
only slowly and infrequently. All of the
information contained in this report is
available to Congress during annual ap-
propriations and oversight hearings, and
HEW will inform Congress immediately
of any scientific breakthroughs in the
field.
White House Statement. July 13, 1978
The President welcomes the agreement
reached yesterday in Luanda between
SWAPO and the Western five contact
group concerning a peaceful solution to
the Namibia question. While we are await-
ing a full report of the details we under-
stand that with South African coopera-
tion the way is now open to an early deci-
sion by the Security Council to cooperate
with all the parties involved to bring
Namibia to early independence.
The President appreciates the efforts of
all the parties involved, including the
frontline states of Africa whose coopera-
tion has been so essential in the impor-
tant progress which has been made. The
United States will continue to cooperate
fully in the implementation of the agree-
ment.
Trade Negotiations in Geneva,
Switzerland
White House Statement. July 13, 1978
The President is pleased by the an-
nouncement from trade negotiators at
Geneva of progress in their presummit
negotiations. He looks forward to a more
1271
