Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ate in preventive health care, and at the
same time set up mechanisms also to
spread health care in an emergency way
throughout our regional areas where doc-
tors and medical care had been scarce.
He's a man who knows how to manage
money, a sound and an effective legislator,
and I look forward to being with him
next year. He's a man also who has Kan-
sas blood in his veins. He's quite inde-
pendent, and I don't have any doubt that
when his judgment comes down to what
does the President want on the one hand
and what do the people of Kansas want
on the other, that he's going to vote with
Kansas, and I'll forgive him for that ahead
of time.
And I look forward to my next trip
back to Wichita, back to Kansas when
you will have a Democratic Governor.
John Carlin is the kind of candidate
who in a leadership position in the Demo-
cratic Party makes a Democratic President
proud. He's young. He's effective. As a
speaker of your house, he's shown his wide
grasp of the factors that make Kansans'
lives better-good fiscal management, a
sound and a fair tax structure.
And one of the things I particularly like
about John Carlin, as a peanut farmer, is
that he's a farmer himself. [Laughter] I'm
not saying that he and I are going to plot
against the other Americans, but we want
to make sure that the farm families of this
country don't suffer.
I've read a great deal about John Car-
lin before I came to Kansas. The only
criticism that I've seen mentioned in the
national press, that we read in Washing-
ton, is that some people have accused him
of being too fiscally responsible. [Laughter]
And I think that's a very fine criticism to
make of a man who will serve as a Gov-
ernor of a State like Kansas.
I don't want to see anybody in office
who wants to waste money that the tax-
payers send up. I think an efficient, effec-
tive government is the best one to deliver
proper services to people, particularly
when the philosophy of Kansan people
needs to be adequately represented in the
Governor's office. And I know John Car-
lin will do that.
Dan Glickman is a freshman Congress-
man, but he acts like one who's been there
20 years. [Laughter] My staff analyzed
his record in the 95th Congress. There
were nine major amendments that the
Congress passed with Dan Glickman's
name on them. And that is almost un-
precedented. It shows that he has an in-
tense commitment to hard work and ef-
fective work for you in Washington. And
his service on the Agriculture Committee
and, as you know, on the Science and
Technology Committee fits in perfectly
with Kansans' lives and particularly the
region around Wichita, because you have
equal to all other communities in the Na-
tion a commitment to the future, in space,
aviation, technology, as well as being the
foremost wheat-producing State and one
of the largest and best agricultural pro-
duction States in the Nation.
And Dan Glickman fits in so well in his
committee assignments-I think that's
what has made him so strong, because he
represents what you want with such an
effective voice.
And I can't pass by an opportunity, al-
though this is not her district, to mention
Martha Keys, a woman with great influ-
ence, intellect, intelligence, courage, and
who, even though this is only her second
term, has become a foremost leader on
perhaps the most important committee in
the Congress, the House Ways and Means
Committee.
She's responsible for health care, wel-
fare, taxation, energy; and the legislation
that the Congress has passed this year has
her mark on it. And when she puts a mark
on legislation, you can rest assured that
the people of Kansas come out very well
1814
