Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 7
Camp David Meeting
on the Middle East
Joint Statement Issued by President Carter,
President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt, and
Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel.
September 6, 1978
After four wars, despite vast human ef-
forts, the Holy Land does not yet enjoy
the blessings of peace.
Conscious of the grave issues which face
us, we place our trust in the God of our
fathers, from whom we seek wisdom and
guidance.
As we meet here at Camp David we ask
people of all faiths to pray with us that
peace and justice may result from these
deliberations.
Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Legislation
Statement Urging Passage of the Legislation
by the House of Representatives.
September 6, 1978
The House of Representatives is sched-
uled to vote this week on the foreign in-
telligence surveillance act, one of the most
significant legislative initiatives involving
our intelligence agencies in the last three
decades.
This act will establish the Nation's first
legislative controls over foreign intelli-
gence surveillance conducted by the
United States Government. Most impor-
tantly, those controls will be established so
as to protect both the strength of our Na-
tion's intelligence agencies and the pri-
vacy rights of our citizens.
American citizens will be assured that
the intelligence agencies so vital to pro-
tecting our security will be able to perform
their tasks fully and effectively. The bill
also assures intelligence officers who serve
our country that their proper activities in
this field will be authorized by statute.
By providing clear statutory standards,
this legislation will help strengthen the
ability of our intelligence agencies to deal
with foreign espionage and international
terrorism. The strong support of this leg-
islation by every intelligence agency
clearly reflects this fact.
The passage of this legislation is also a
major step toward eliminating the poten-
tial for abuse of electronic surveillance by
the Federal Government. Americans will
now be afforded the safeguards of a judi-
cial warrant procedure for any electronic
surveillance which might affect their
rights.
This legislation has been carefully de-
veloped over several years, by executive
and congressional leaders of both parties.
The kind of bipartisan cooperation
needed to develop legislation in the intelli-
gence area, which is so important to the
defense of our Nation, was demonstrated
earlier this year by the overwhelming Sen-
ate vote, 95-1, passing the bill.
I urge the Members of the House to
vote for passage of this legislation, so that
we can promptly begin to implement this
well-balanced, long-overdue initiative.
Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization Bill
Statement on the House of Representatives
Action To Sustain the President's Veto of
H.R. 10929. September 7, 1978
I am very pleased by the decision of the
House to sustain my veto of the defense
authorization bill. I now look forward to
working closely and cooperatively with the
appropriate committees of the House and
Senate in enacting a new bill which will
provide the strongest possible national de-
fense, a goal which I know we all share.
1501
