Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
MS. WALTERS. Have the Russians been
involved, sir, that you know of?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as we know,
they have not. We monitor the situation
closely. Obviously, there is a Communist
party there, the Tudeh party, which per-
haps is inclined to encourage violence or
disruption in order to change the existing
government. But the Shah is communi-
cating with opposition leaders. He is com-
mitted to a broader base for the govern-
ment. He is working toward democratic
principles and social change. And he has
been embattled lately. And we obviously
support him fully.
Ms. WALTERS. When we talk about
support, what do we mean today, 1978,
post-Vietnam, by support? For example,
if the Shah does fall, it threatens our oil
supply, it threatens Israel's oil supply, it
threatens Saudi Arabia, it threatens the
whole Persian Gulf. At what point would
support turn into action and what kind
of action, if any?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not prepared to
answer that question.
MS. WALTERS. Because there is no
answer, or because-
The President. Well, the answer is
difficult. But I think just conjecturing on
something that's hypothetical like that,
assuming all the catastrophes that might
possibly occur in the Persian Gulf, is some-
thing on which I don't want to comment.
I don't think it's going to happen. And
if I were to surmise that if it happens,
we would do this, it would be interpreted
by some as an actual prediction by me
that it's going to happen, and I don't
think it's going to happen.
MS. WALTERS. Is support primarily
verbal support?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We have treaty
agreements with Iran. We have strong
defense agreements with Iran. We look on
Iran, as do their neighbors, as being a
stabilizing factor. Even the Soviet Union
shares a long border with Iran. I'm sure
they want stability there on their border.
Exactly the formation of the govern-
ment—I can't speak for the Soviets, but
I think that for world peace and for the
Soviets, and for us, certainly for the entire
Middle East-Persian Gulf region, a stabil-
ity is desirable, and that's what we want,
also.
HUMAN RIGHTS
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, I want
to move-talking about Iran-move to
human rights, because some highly placed
Iranians close to the Shah have said that
your insistence on human rights was a
factor in weakening his position. And
Henry Kissinger, in a recent interview,
said, and I quote, that your human rights
campaign is "a weapon aimed primarily
at allies and tends to undermine their
domestic structure"-a strong statement.
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] I haven't
had any screams of outrage from our
allies about our human rights position.
It's been clear. It's been public. It's been
consistent and well-advised. And I think
I speak accurately for the American
people in saying that a United States com-
mitment to the enhancement of human
rights on a worldwide basis is a sound
policy.
There was a very long and thorough
debate, for instance, within the NATO
Council earlier this week about the ad-
visability of the human rights stand being
strongly pursued throughout the world.
And there was a consensus among our
NATO Allies approximately 15 na-
tions that this was a policy that was
well-advised for the Western democratic
world. And there are many people on the
other side of the so-called Iron Curtain
who also agree that the strong human
rights policy should be pursued, and it
will be.
2256
