Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
MR. WATSON. There are two Executive
orders that you know about, that the
President mentioned this morning. One of
them is the urban impact analysis, with
which you're familiar and which you're
speaking about now. The other one is
this new Interagency Coordinating Coun-
cil, which I chair for the President and
which consists of all the major operating
program managers of the Government.
As you see urban impacts, prospective
or otherwise, flowing out of changes or
out of possible new programs, communi-
cation with us about those impacts that
you see would be the thing to do, either
through the Interagency Coordinating
Council or through the urban impact
analysis process. Both of those work hand
in glove, and the two processes, though
one of them is handled principally
through the Domestic Policy Staff, with
Stu, and the other through me, they are,
in effect, a single process.
THE PRESIDENT. Also, when you see
Federal programs that are excessively fi-
nanced, I hope you'll let me know about
that as well. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in
Room 122 at the Cervantes Convention
Center.
W. Bowman "Bo" Cutter is Executive Asso-
ciate Director for Budget of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, and Jack H. Watson,
Jr., is Secretary to the Cabinet and Assistant
to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Remarks at Mormon Church Ceremonies
representatives of the governments at all
levels, ladies and gentlemen:
This is absolutely beautiful. And I'm
very honored, Mr. President, that you
would present this to me.
I'm also honored to be here with you in
this beautiful place. I came a little earlier
than the audience may have known, and I
was pleased to watch the absolutely de-
lightful and memorable television spots
that remind all of us who are members of
families what our duties are, to hear the
Primary Children's Chorus singing "I Am
a Child of God," to hear the Lamanite
Generation, Native Americans, singing
"Go, My Son," and then, of course, to
come in and meet the Osmond family,
which is a very famous and admirable
group in our Nation.
It's a pleasure for me to receive this
award, representing a typical American
family, and I want to thank you for it.
As a matter of fact, I had my typical
American family this past weekend at
Camp David, 30 of the members of my
family. I finally escaped yesterday.
escaped
[Laughter] After 2 or 3 intense days of
negotiation, I think we reached a frame-
work for peace among ourselves. [Laugh-
ter] It was nice to keep my family out of
the news for a few days. [Laughter] It
was one of the most delightful experiences
in many years for me.
We have a large family, a close family,
an exciting family, and one which has
given one another great help and support
and encouragement in times of difficulty
or excitement or joy or achievement or
sorrow.
There's nothing that gives me more
Honoring Family Unity. November 27, 1978 pleasure, even as President of the United
President Kimball, President Romney,
President Tanner, members of the Coun-
cil of the Twelve Apostles, distinguished
States, than to have Amy come to me in
the evening, when I'm tired and con-
cerned and worried, and put her arms
around my neck and give me a kiss. She
2084
