Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
acres. It is also heavily involved in cattle
breeding.
Garst is also sales manager of Garst and
Thomas, a large seller of seed corn and
sorghum seed. Through other companies
in his community, he is involved in other
aspects of the farm service industries.
Garst was an adviser on agricultural
policy to the Carter-Mondale campaign
in 1976. He is a member of the National
Agricultural Marketing Association and a
director of the United States Feed Grain
Council. In the 1950's, Garst traveled to
Eastern Europe to demonstrate and sell
farm equipment.
United Service Organizations,
Inc.
Appointment of Maxine E. Flournoy and
Jeff Wald as Members of the Board of
Governors. September 28, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of two persons as members of
the Board of Governors of the United
Service Organizations, Inc. (USO). They
are:
Maxine E. Flournoy, of Alice, Tex.
Flournoy served in the Women's Airforce
Service Pilots (WASP's) during World
War II as a pilot. She has also served as a
company pilot and, with her husband,
operates an oil well drilling company.
Jeff Wald, of Los Angeles, president of
Jeff Wald Television Productions and
Wald-Nanas Associates, and a member of
the board of governors of Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Country Music Month,
October 1978
Message of the President. September 28, 1978
As modern American society becomes
more and more hectic and complex, there
is a desire in all of us to return to the
simple things in life.
This perhaps in part explains the grow-
ing popularity—even in our busiest metro-
politan areas of country music. And des-
ignated
ignated as "Country Music Month,"
October invites us all to return, at least
vicariously, to the hills and the farms of
America and to retrace the everyday
emotions and experiences of country life.
Country music is part of the soul and
conscience of our democracy. It unfolds
the inherent goodness of our people and
of our way of life. It captures our in-
domitable spirit and pulsates with the sor-
rows, joys and unfailing perseverance of
ordinary men and women who sustain our
national vitality and strength.
I welcome the opportunity to applaud
the Country Music Association on its
sponsorship of this annual observance, and
I encourage more Americans to share in
the enjoyment and cultural enrichment
that country music can bring.
JIMMY CARTER
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
SEPTEMBER 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to comment first
on two very courageous actions that have
been taken recently.
CAMP DAVID AGREEMENTS
The first is by the Israeli Knesset, their
parliament, late last night, when they
voted overwhelmingly by more than a 4-
to-1 margin for peace in the Middle East,
including the removal of the Israeli set-
tlers from the Sinai, which is Egyptian
territory.
This is a continuation of the coura-
geous action that has already been
1653
