Dec. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
manent, career-conditional, temporary,
or emergency.
"Sec. 5.3. Enforcement.
(a) The Director is authorized to en-
sure enforcement of the civil service laws,
rules, and regulations, and all applicable
Executive orders, by:
(1) Instructing an agency to separate
or take other action against an employee
serving an appointment subject to investi-
gation when the Director finds that the
employee is disqualified for Federal em-
ployment. Where the employee or the
agency appeals the Director's finding that
a separation or other action is necessary,
the Director may instruct the agency as to
whether or not the employee should re-
main on duty and continue to receive
pay pending adjudication of the appeal:
Provided, That when an agency separates
or takes other action against an employee
pursuant to the Director's instructions,
and the Director, on the basis of new evi-
dence, subsequently reverses the initial
decision as to the employee's qualifica-
tions and suitability, the agency shall,
upon request of the Director, restore the
employee to duty or otherwise reverse any
action taken.
(2) Reporting the results of evaluation
or investigations to the head of the agency
concerned with instructions for any cor-
rective action necessary, including can-
cellation of personnel actions where ap-
propriate. The Director's findings result-
ing from evaluations or investigations are
binding unless changed as a result of
agency evidence and arguments against
them. If, during the course of any evalua-
tion or investigation under this Section,
the Director finds evidence of matters
which come within the investigative and
prosecutorial jurisdiction of the Special
Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection
Board, the Director shall refer this evi-
dence to the Special Counsel for appro-
priate disposition.
(b) Whenever the Director issues
specific instructions as to separation or
other corrective action with regard to an
employee, including cancellation of a per-
sonnel action, the head of the agency con-
cerned shall comply with the Director's
instructions.
(c) If the agency head fails to comply
with the specific instructions of the Direc-
tor as to separation or other corrective
action with regard to an employee, includ-
ing cancellation of a personnel action, the
Director may certify to the Comptrolier
General of the United States the agency's
failure to act together with such addi-
tional information as the Comptroller
General may require, and shall furnish a
copy of such certification to the head of
the agency concerned. The individual
with respect to whom such separation or
other corrective action was instructed
shall be entitled thereafter to no pay or
only to such pay as appropriate to effec-
tuate the Director's instructions.
"Sec. 5.4. Information and Testimony.
When required by the Office, the Merit
Systems Protection Board, or the Special
Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection
Board, or by authorized representatives of
these bodies, agencies shall make avail-
able to them, or to their authorized repre-
sentatives, employees to testify in regard
to matters inquired of under the civil serv-
ice laws, rules, and regulations, and rec-
ords pertinent to these matters. All such
employees, and all applicants or eligibles
for positions covered by these rules, shall
give to the Office, the Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board, the Special Counsel, or to
their authorized representatives, all infor-
mation, testimony, documents, and mate-
rial in regard to the above matters, the
disclosure of which is not otherwise pro-
hibited by law or regulation. These em-
ployees, applicants, and eligibles shall sign
2296
