Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 8
NOTE: The following announcement was re-
leased by the White House Press Office on Au-
gust 10:
Mrs. Rosalynn Carter will head the U.S.
delegation of five dignitaries who will attend
the funeral of Pope Paul VI in Rome on
Saturday.
In addition to Mrs. Carter, the delegates will
be Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.),
Gov. Hugh L. Carey (D-N.Y.), Representa-
tive Robert N. Giaimo (D-Conn.), David
Walters, Personal Representative of the Pres-
ident to the Vatican, and Leonel J. Castillo,
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion.
On Saturday, August 12, at 6 p.m. (Rome
time), the representatives will attend the state
funeral for His Holiness Paul VI at St. Peter's
meeting, and the President is gratified by
their response.
Each of the three leaders will be ac-
companied by a small number of their
principal advisers, and no specific time
has been set for the duration of the
meeting.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at 11:33 a.m. to reporters assem-
bled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
Square. On Sunday there will be a reception Fire Prevention Week, 1978
for the Sacred College of Cardinals in the Con-
sistorial Hall of the Papal Palace, Vatican City,
in order to receive condolences from foreign
delegations. The American delegation will at-
tend the reception.
With the exception of Senator Kennedy, the
delegation will leave by military jet from An-
drews Air Force Base at 9 p.m. tonight, and
arrive in Rome at approximately 1:30 p.m.
(Rome time) Friday. Senator Kennedy will re-
main in Washington for legislative work Fri-
day, then fly to Rome in time for the funeral.
The entire group will return to Washington
Sunday evening, August 13.
Camp David Meeting on the
Middle East
Statement by the White House Press Secretary.
August 8, 1978
The President is pleased to announce
that President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin have accepted an invitation to
come to Camp David on September 5 for
a meeting with the President to seek a
framework for peace in the Middle East.
All three leaders agree that there is no
task more important than this search for
peace. Secretary Vance has informed the
President that both Prime Minister Begin
and President Sadat have welcomed this
Proclamation 4581. August 8, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Fire causes more loss of life and prop-
erty in the United States than all other
natural disasters combined. In the home,
fire is the second most frequent cause of
accidential death. Volunteer and profes-
sional firefighters bear a disproportionate
burden of the human costs of fire; fire-
fighting is still America's most hazardous
profession.
Every year in this decade 7,500 U.S.
citizens have died, 310,000 have been in-
jured and more than $4 billion worth of
personal property has been destroyed.
America's fire incidents, casualties, and
dollar loss per capita are among the very
highest in the industrialized world.
As evidence of my strong personal con-
cern about our fire problem, I have pro-
posed a reorganization plan that would
put the federal government's principal
fire programs in a new Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency. This agency
would coordinate America's disaster pre-
paredness, mitigation and response ef-
forts. But the federal government cannot
1393
