Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment that'll protect us in the future.
We had good luck at Camp David in
trying to bring [applause]-and I think
one of the reasons that we had this suc-
cess so far is because of the commitment
of American people to extend a hand of
moderation and conciliation and help to
others like President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin who genuinely want peace
for their people. But that's escaped the
Holy Land, as you know, for hundreds
and hundreds of years. And I hope we
will be successful in our negotiations.
So, I've tried to outline as briefly as I
could some of the characteristics, some of
the achievements, some of the remaining
problems of the Democratic Party.
We don't claim that we know all the
answers. But we have an innate strength
as Democrats, in that we cast our lot di-
rectly with you. We derive our strength
from you, our counsel and advice from
you, our criticisms, in a constructive way,
from you.
We try to stay close to you, because I
said during the campaign many times—
sometimes the press teased me about it—
that I want a government in Washington
as good and decent and honest and truth-
ful and competent as the American peo-
ple. That's what we want to have. And I
believe that we'll have it.
One of the best ways to guarantee it is
to give me in Washington, from Kansas,
a good Democratic team to work with.
That's important.
You've come here today to help the
candidates in whom you believe, for U.S.
Senate, for Governor, for Congress. And
I hope every one of you will go away from
this meeting, not with a sense that you've
done enough by coming here, but with a
determination to make your own lives a
kind of a focal point for success for the
candidates in whom you believe. Each one
of you has the character and ability and
influence to be kind of a one-person cam-
paign manager for Bill Roy, John Carlin,
for your candidates for Congress.
And I want you to pledge to me as
Americans that you'll not only vote but
that you will work between now and
November 7. And with these candidates
being successful, with your help, we'll
make the greatest nation on Earth even
greater in years to come.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. in
the Exhibition Hall at the Century II Con-
vention Center.
Wichita, Kansas
Remarks at a Bill Signing Ceremony
for S. 3447. October 21, 1978
As I said in the other room, with a
peanut farmer in the White House and a
dairy farmer in the statehouse, I think the
Kansas farmers will at least have very
strong voices in State and Federal Gov-
ernment.
There's no doubt that agriculture is the
stable element in our Nation's economy.
And quite often in the past it's not been
adequately recognized.
This morning I come before you to sign
a very important piece of legislation. Last
October we put into effect the agricul-
tural bill, an omnibus bill of 1977. There
have been substantial improvements al-
ready in the income level of American
farmers and also in the level of exports.
But I have felt with increasingly bountiful
harvests, which have been very obvious
this year throughout the country, that
even greater emphasis ought to be placed
on exports.
Last year we had very low farm prices,
as you know. But in spite of those very
low prices per unit, we had the highest
export level in the history of our country,
about $24 billion. This year we've in-
1818
