Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Human rights is the soul of our foreign
policy. And I say this with assurance, be-
cause human rights is the soul of our sense
of nationhood.
For the most part, other nations are
held together by common racial or ethnic
ancestry, or by a common creed or re-
ligion, or by ancient attachments to the
land that go back for centuries of time.
Some nations are held together by the
forces, implied forces of a tyrannical gov-
ernment. We are different from all of
those, and I believe that we in our coun-
try are more fortunate.
As a people we come from every coun-
try and every corner of the Earth. We are
of many religions and many creeds. We
are of every race, every color, every ethnic
and cultural background. We are right to
be proud of these things and of the rich-
ness that lend to the texture of our na-
tional life. But they are not the things
which unite us as a single people.
What unites us-what makes us Amer-
icans is a common belief in peace, in
a free society, and a common devotion
to the liberties enshrined in our Consti-
tution. That belief and that devotion are
the sources of our sense of national com-
munity. Uniquely, ours is a nation
founded on an idea of human rights.
From our own history we know how
powerful that idea can be.
Next week marks another human rights
anniversary-Bill of Rights Day. Our Na-
tion was "conceived in liberty," in Lin-
coln's words, but it has taken nearly two
centuries for that liberty to approach ma-
turity.
For most of the first half of our history,
black Americans were denied even the
most basic human rights. For most of the
first two-thirds of our history, women
were excluded from the political process.
Their rights and those of Native Ameri-
cans are still not constitutionally guaran-
teed and enforced. Even freedom of
speech has been threatened periodically
throughout our history. Only in the last
10 to 12 years have we achieved what
Father Hesburgh has called "the legal
abandonment of more than three cen-
turies of apartheid." And the struggle for
full human rights for all Americans-
black, brown, and white; male and fe-
male; rich and poor-is far from over.
To me, as to many of you, these are
not abstract matters or ideas. In the rural
Georgia country where I grew up, the
majority of my own fellow citizens were
denied many basic rights the right to
vote, the right to speak freely without
fear, the right to equal treatment under
the law. I saw at first hand the effects of
a system of deprivation of rights. I saw
the courage of those who resisted that
system. And finally, I saw the cleansing
energies that were released when my own
region of this country walked out of dark-
ness and into what Hubert Humphrey, in
the year
of the adoption of the Universal
Declaration, called "the bright sunshine
of human rights."
The American Bill of Rights is 187
years old, and the struggle to make it a
reality has occupied every one of those
187 years. The Universal Declaration of
Human Rights is only 30 years old. In the
perspective of history, the idea of human
rights has only just been broached.
I do not draw this comparison because
I want to counsel patience. I draw it be-
cause I want to emphasize, in spite of
difficulties, steadfastness and commit-
ment.
A hundred and eighty-seven years ago,
as far as most Americans were concerned,
the Bill of Rights was a bill of promises.
There was no guarantee that those prom-
ises would ever be fulfilled. We did not
realize those promises by waiting for his-
tory to take its inevitable course. We real-
ized them because we struggled. We real-
2164
