Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
3
peace treaty negotiations within
months. And I have noticed the challenge
extended by these two gentlemen to each
other. They will complete within 3
months-I might say that this document
encompasses almost all of the issues be-
tween the two countries and resolves those
issues. A few lines remain to be drawn on
maps, and the question of the settlements
is to be resolved. Other than that, most
of the major issues are resolved already
in this document.
We will now sign this document as well.
[At this point, President Sadat, Prime Minister
Begin, and President Carter signed the second
document.]
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Members of the U.S., Egyptian, and Israeli
delegations to the summit meeting and Mem-
bers of the Congress, the Cabinet, and White
House staff attended the document signing
ceremony, which was broadcast live on radio
and television.
Camp David Meeting on the
Middle East
Documents Agreed to at Camp David.
September 17, 1978
A FRAMEWORK FOR PEACE IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AGREED AT CAMP DAVID
Muhammad Anwar al-Sadat, Presi-
dent of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and
Menachem Begin, Prime Minister of Is-
rael, met with Jimmy Carter, President of
the United States of America, at Camp
David from September 5 to September 17,
1978, and have agreed on the following
framework for peace in the Middle East.
They invite other parties to the Arab-
Israeli conflict to adhere to it.
PREAMBLE
The search for peace in the Middle
East must be guided by the following:
-The agreed basis for a peaceful settle-
ment of the conflict between Israel and
its neighbors is United Nations Security
Council Resolution 242, in all its parts.*
-After four wars during thirty years,
despite intensive human efforts, the Mid-
dle East, which is the cradle of civilization
and the birthplace of three great religions,
does not yet enjoy the blessings of peace.
The people of the Middle East yearn for
peace so that the vast human and natural
resources of the region can be turned to
the pursuits of peace and so that this area
can become a model for coexistence and
cooperation among nations.
-The historic initiative of President
Sadat in visiting Jerusalem and the re-
ception accorded to him by the Parlia-
ment, government and people of Israel,
and the reciprocal visit of Prime Minister
Begin to Ismailia, the peace proposals
made by both leaders, as well as the warm
reception of these missions by the peoples
of both countries, have created an un-
precedented opportunity for peace which
must not be lost if this generation and
future generations are to be spared the
tragedies of war.
-The provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations and the other accepted
norms of international law and legitimacy
now provide accepted standards for the
conduct of relations among all states.
-To achieve a relationship of peace, in
the spirit of Article 2 of the United Na-
tions Charter, future negotiations between
Israel and any neighbor prepared to nego-
tiate peace and security with it, are neces-
sary for the purpose of carrying out all the
*The texts of Resolutions 242 and 338 are
annexed to this document.
1523
