Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
down the budget deficit. I know how
North Carolina people feel. You'd rather
have services met that the American peo-
ple require, but you would like to have a
balanced budget as well. And that's my
goal along with yours.
Let me give you some quick statistics.
In 1976, when I campaigned in your State
for President, the Federal budget deficit
was in the sixties of billions of dollars,
1976 fiscal year. In 1978, we cut it down
in the fifties of billions of dollars; 1979,
in the forties of billions of dollars; 1980,
I promise you today that it will be down
in the thirties of billions of dollars, and
we're headed down to a balanced budget
as fast as we can.
We're also trying to get control of the
Federal bureaucracy. When I ran for
President, one of the most frequent re-
quests that I had from the American peo-
ple was, "Give us a government in Wash-
ington of which we can be proud, a gov-
ernment that's efficient and effective."
And I believe along with you that Amer-
ican taxpayers deserve a good return on
the investment that you put in the Gov-
ernment in Washington, and that's what
I'm going to give you.
I want to get the Federal Government
out of the affairs of private citizens as
much as possible. I'm a small businessman
myself. I own a cotton gin, a peanut shel-
ler. I sold fertilizing seed to farmers. I
know what it means to have unnecessary
reports and regulations and redtape. So,
we've got some good people in office now,
in Washington, who are trying to turn this
trend around. It's not easy.
Last year, OSHA eliminated 1,100 reg-
ulations in 1 day, and I can tell you that
this year we're going to eliminate another
1,000 regulations in OSHA. And we're
trying to make the Government regula-
tions so they're written in plain English.
We're even requiring that the people who
write them sign them. And I believe that
you will see this good impact in all our
communities in the years to come.
Let me make one comment to you
about the biggest problem that I faced
and you faced when I came in office. It's
already been mentioned. When I became
President, we had just had a report from
the Labor Department that 8 percent of
all American citizens were out of work.
We've changed that. In the last 18
months, we've had a net increase of 62
million jobs for Americans. We've cut the
unemployment rate almost 2 percent. And
with the good leadership of Jim Hunt in
North Carolina, you've cut the unemploy-
ment rate in the last year and a half by 50
percent, better than almost any State I
know. So, we believe in putting people in
this country back to work.
Let me say one additional word-about
defense. Our country is now at peace. We
haven't had an American soldier fire a
gun in combat or anger in the last 18
months. And my prayer is that when I go
out of office, we'll still have a nation at
peace. That peace can only be ensured
with a strong defense.
This morning I went to Norfolk-
where I first served in the Navy on the old
U.S.S. Mississippi-to commission a new
United States Ship Mississippi. It's a nu-
clear carrier. It's designed to exemplify
the high commitment that all of us have
to giving our Nation a good, strong de-
fense. We have that commitment. And
we'll never see our Nation second to any
in our ability to fight, if it were necessary,
and to prevent fighting by our adherence
to peace and a strong military establish-
ment that will always be there, with your
support.
I would like to say one other thing in
closing. There is a time in our country to
recognize basic human rights. One of those
rights is the ability to speak, even to shout
1388
