Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I have great confidence in the economic
strength, the political strength, the mili-
tary strength of our Nation. It's not getting
weaker. Don't believe anyone when they
say that our Army or Navy or Air Force
or Marines can't handle any challenge
that comes to us from any possible ad-
versarial foe. We are the strongest now.
We'll always be the strongest militarily.
And with your help, with your coopera-
tion, with your support of good candi-
dates, we'll keep a team, a Democratic
team that will make our Nation in the
future even greater than it has been in
the past.
We have now and we will always have
the greatest nation on Earth: the United
States of America. I'm proud to be your
President.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:06 p.m. at
the Wilson County Public Library. Following
the rally, the President went to the Heart of
Wilson Hotel, where he had a luncheon meeting
with Democratic Party leaders.
Wilson, North Carolina
Remarks at Growers Cooperative Warehouse,
Inc. August 5, 1978
Jim, thank you very much. I've been to
a lot of tobacco auction barns in Georgia;
it's the first time I've ever seen a sale on
Saturday. [Laughter] And I especially ap-
preciate both the buyers and the auction-
eer and all of you for coming here to let
me see at first hand the beautiful quality
of your tobacco in North Carolina this
year and to take at least part credit for
the wonderful price that you are receiv-
ing for this high-quality tobacco.
As I told a large crowd earlier this day,
my ancestors came from North Carolina.
And they were tobacco farmers, and all
of my ancestors have been farmers. Nei-
ther my father nor any of his ancestors
have ever finished high school before. We
grew up working people and with the
realization that hard work and honest
work is the foundation of agriculture all
over the world.
Many kinds of crops have been almost
totally mechanized. But tobacco, as you
know, is one kind of production that still
requires a large investment in cash money,
that has a doubtful prospect each year for
a successful crop and a successful market,
and where hard, back-breaking labor is
still a prerequisite to a profitable season.
In North Carolina, a third of the fam-
ilies who live on the farm make their in-
come on 10 acres of productive land or
less.
There is a lot of talk about maintaining
the loan support price for tobacco on the
one hand, and having a good health pro-
gram on the other hand. I think anyone
knows that there is no incompatibility be-
tween these two commitments. We must
have stable agricultural programs, a stable
price, an orderly marketing system. And
because of the high quality of your crop,
there's very little, if any, cost to the Gov-
ernment for this stable production
schedule.
There are 2 million families in our
country that depend for their livelihood
on tobacco farmers; a fourth of them
are in North Carolina. It's your number
one agricultural export crop. In Georgia,
tobacco is the number one agricultural
export crop. And I think a good, sound
education program for American citizens
and a good research program for the ben-
efit of American citizens can let us main-
tain good health in America and also a
stable agriculture environment and in-
dustry, including, of course, the produc-
tion of tobacco.
As long as I'm in the White House and
have people like Bob Morgan, Congress-
man Fountain, and others to help me,
1390
