Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
Berlin, which is now benefiting from the
Quadripartite Agreement, which is sup-
ported by the Soviet Union and the
Western Allies.
So, we do condemn this action in the
Soviet Union. At the same time we want
to continue a peaceful relationship with
all countries, and our voice will not be
stilled as we consider these violations and
others around the world of basic human
rights.
Q. But we'll take no further action?
THE CHANCELLOR. [in German] I
would like to add another two sentences
in complete agreement with that which
the President has just said. There are
not only court cases in the Soviet Union.
There are also cases in other countries.
We Germans are particularly disturbed
about the cases against Hübner and
Bahro that are taking place these days in
the other part of Germany. And I would
like very much to make American jour-
nalists aware that there are many people
in the eastern part of Europe who have
to suffer under such accusations and per-
secutions and judgments far beyond those
who at the moment are assuming such a
prominent role in the public conscious-
ness.
PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO BERLIN
Q. [in German] What was the reaction
of President Carter to the protest of the
GDR against the visit by both Chancellor
Schmidt and him to Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. The German Demo-
cratic Republic has no role to play in the
assessment of compliance with the Quad-
ripartite Agreement. This is an agreement
signed by the four nations involved, and
the GDR is not a part of that agreement
and have no legal nor legitimate role to
play as a commentator.
It is completely within the agreement
for the Chancellor of Germany to visit
West Berlin with me, and I think this is
part of the agreement itself, that there be
good relations and improved relations
and strengthened relationships between
the western part of Berlin and the Federal
Republic of Germany. So, this is a proper
action for us to take, for the Chancellor
to take, and the GDR has no legitimate
role to play as a commentator.
ENHANCED RADIATION WEAPONS
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us
whether you and the Chancellor discussed
this morning defense and NATO issues,
and particularly the eventual develop-
ment or deployment of the neutron
weapon?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. [Laughter]
Q. Have you come to any decision on
either its development or deployment in
Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we've not reached
a final decision on this, but we have a very
frank and easy and free discussion about
this and other matters concerning NATO.
The mutual and balanced force reduc-
tions, the excessive buildup of the Soviets'
very formidable middle-range missiles,
such as the SS-20, these are all matters
that we have discussed. But we're not pre-
pared to reveal the substance of our dis-
cussion.
Q. Well, I wonder if Chancellor
Schmidt could tell us his position as to
the deployment of this weapon in
Germany?
THE CHANCELLOR. I would just like to
underline the very short but very pre-
cise answer of the President. Ladies and
gentlemen, there will be just time for one
more question.
U.S.-GERMAN RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what
economic differences you discussed? What
1283
