Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
$500 million for improving readiness in
all the armed services-For a wide variety
of items, ranging from repair of weapons
to spare parts stockage to improved train-
ing and logistical support.
Up to $500 million for research and
development-For programs proposed in
my FY 79 budget but deleted by one or
another Congressional action.
Naval Ships-It is crucial to maintain
an appropriate overall annual level of
ship construction. The Congress should
return all of the general purpose ships re-
quested in our budget.
These are the ways in which our de-
fense dollars need to be spent. These are
the ways in which they will add to our
military security, by obtaining the greatest
military capability for each dollar and by
focusing the effort where more effort is
needed.
In light of the continuing Soviet build-
up, we must not reduce our own real
defense capability, either by cutting the
budget amount I have requested, or by
substituting for high priority defense re-
quirements programs which are less
urgent or less effective.
If we do not spend our defense dollars
wisely, we do not provide adequately for
the security of our country. I know that
the Congress and I share common goals. I
ask the Congress to cooperate with me to
help our armed forces use their funds in
ways which produce the greatest fighting
power, and to provide the men and
women of our armed forces with the kinds
of weapons, equipment and other items of
support which they need to do their jobs.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 17, 1978.
NOTE: The House of Representatives recon-
sidered H.R. 10929 on September 7, and the
bill was referred to committee. For the Presi-
dent's statement on the House action, see page
1501 of this volume.
First Transatlantic
Balloon Crossing
Telegram to the Three Balloonists on Their
Successful Crossing. August 17, 1978
On behalf of all the American people,
I salute your triumphant adventure. Your
daring voyage through the silent sky is a
welcome reminder that individual acts of
bravery and skill still capture our collec-
tive imagination.
I wish to invite you to visit with me in
the White House once you've returned to
this country.
We all celebrate your magnificent
achievement and welcome you warmly
back to the earth.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The telegram was addressed to Ben
Abruzzo, Max Anderson, and Larry Newman,
and was delivered to them after they landed
their hot-air balloon, Double Eagle II, near
Miserey, France.
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nomination of Richard M. Freeman To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
August 17, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard M. Freeman, of
Glencoe, Ill., to be a member of the Board
of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority for a 9-year term. He would re-
place Aubrey Wagner, whose term has
expired.
Freeman was born July 2, 1921, in
Crawfordsville, Ind. He received an A.B.
from Wabash College in 1943 and an
LL.B. from Columbia University Law
School in 1948.
From 1948 to 1957, Freeman was an
attorney in the law department of the
Tennessee Valley Authority, counseling
the resource development program and
handling administrative and court litiga-
1449
