Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:08 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Yukon-Charley National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
Yukon Flats National
Monument
Proclamation 4627. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Yukon Flats National Monument
exemplifies the largest and most complete
example of an interior Alaskan solar basin
with its associated ecosystem. The moun-
tain-ringed Yukon Flats basin straddles
the Arctic Circle and is bisected by the
Yukon River.
The physiography of this basin, cou-
pled with the continuous sunlight of the
summer months, results in a climatologi-
cal phenomenon in the basin of warmer
summer temperatures and less cloudiness,
precipitation and wind than in surround-
ing areas. These factors produce a lush
wetland area which makes the Yukon
Flats basin one of North America's most
productive wildlife habitats. The pristine
ecological nature of the Yukon Flats
offers an excellent opportunity for study
of the factors contributing to the immense
productivity of the solar basin areas.
The Yukon Flats contributes significant
populations of several species of water-
fowl to all four of the continent's flyways,
including 10-25 percent of the North
American breeding population of canvas-
back ducks. This area is also significant
for its capacity to provide nesting for
ducks displaced from Canadian pothole
provinces in drought years. The produc-
tivity, migration flows and key habitat for
particular species offer abundant scien-
tific research possibilities.
Additionally, the area produces a
unique race of salmon which migrate over
2,000 miles from the sea to spawn. This
genetic capability is unknown elsewhere.
From prehistoric times, the area's rich
populations of furbearers have attracted
humans to the area. The establishment
of Fort Yukon, the first English speaking
settlement in Alaska, was directly related
to the Hudson Bay Company's fur trade.
The area's preservation offers to the sci-
entist the opportunity to investigate the
life and society of the peoples which util-
ized these resources.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, historical, biological and
other phenomena enumerated above sup-
ports now, as it has in the past, the unique
subsistence culture of the local residents.
The continued existence of this culture,
which depends on subsistence hunting,
and its availability for study, enhance the
historic and scientific values of the natural
objects protected herein because of the
ongoing interaction of the subsistence cul-
ture with those objects. Accordingly, the
opportunity for the local residents to en-
gage in subsistence hunting is a value to
2142
