Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
When I ran in 1976, the budget deficit
was in the high sixties of billions of dollars.
My first budget preparation was for fiscal
year 1978. We cut it down to the fifties of
billions of dollars. This 1979 will be in the
high thirties or low forties of billions of
dollars, and the '80 budget will be even
lower. So, we have a good, steady, down-
ward trend, strong trend downward in the
budget deficit.
Civil service reform was another task
that we undertook that was predicted to
be completely unsuccessful. But we
mounted a massive campaign on that, and
as you know, now the House and the Sen-
ate have passed the civil service reform
relatively intact-first time in a hundred
years, it will let American public servants,
who give a career of service to other
Americans, be rewarded for good service.
Poor service can be corrected without un-
necessary delay. Managers can manage,
and I think the entire government struc-
ture will benefit. Of course, the American
people will, too.
Those are a few examples on the do-
mestic scene. One that I would like to
mention as a farmer is that I think we've
turned around the American farm econ-
omy. The 1977 bill, which went into effect
less than a year ago, has already had very
beneficial results among the farm commu-
nities and farm families of our country.
In foreign affairs, I've devoted perhaps
more time of all to the Mideast. It's been
the most all-encompassing problem that
I've addressed. This has been a highly
controversial matter, because I felt at the
beginning that we ought to put the con-
troversial issue on the table, in the public
consciousness, and let an open debate take
place.
As you well know, I was highly
criticized by many for this. It was a po-
litical risk. But I think the fact that the
American people were aware of questions
like Palestinian rights, for instance, ad-
dressing the problems, the sensitive prob-
lems of the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
dealing with the leaders of the Arab world,
a recognition of Israel's right to exist,
actual peace treaties, open borders, diplo-
matic relations, these are phrases and
terms that had never been addressed
before.
The Israeli recognition of the fact that
U.N. Resolution 242 and all its parts ap-
ply to these things were highly controver-
sial when proposed. But we've had good
success on that so far, and I predict a
rapid conclusion of the agreement be-
tween Egypt and Israel in the Sinai and
hopefully open up possibilities for in-
creased relationships between Israel, Jor-
dan, the
dan, the Palestinians, and their other
neighbors.
The Panama Canal Treaty debate was
the most bitter and unpleasant experi-
ence of my Presidency. It was the most
difficult political undertaking that I have
ever assumed, including my campaign for
President. And the Congress, I think, the
Senate made a very courageous decision
about this. It opened up a new era for
our relationship with the entire Latin
American community, and removes the
onus-which we certainly didn't deserve,
but which did exist in many people's
minds around the world-of the last rem-
nants of a colonial inclination on the part
of our country. It was a difficult thing to
do and perhaps the most troubling vote of
the Members of the Senate.
The Turkey arms embargo has now
been lifted-will be shortly. We hope this
will lead to a resolution of the Cyprus dis-
pute. We've opened up an avenue of bet-
ter trade relationships, better defense re-
lationships with Egypt and Saudi Arabia
with the airplane sale. I think it's leading
toward Israeli peace, not against Israeli
peace. We've been negotiating without
ceasing with the Soviet Union on SALT
and other matters.
1590
