Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 23
He served as an attorney-adviser
(1956-69) and as assistant regional so-
licitor (1969-74) in the Denver office of
the Department of the Interior before as-
suming his present position.
Jomo Kenyatta
White House Statement on the Death of the
President of Kenya. August 22, 1978
The death of Jomo Kenyatta, the first
President of the Republic of Kenya, is a
very sad occasion for the people of Kenya
and for their friends around the world.
Jomo Kenyatta was a giant of the African
independence struggle, and he was a re-
vered leader of his country. Under his
guidance, Kenya's internal development
was steady and orderly; its conduct in in-
ternational affairs showed a mature re-
sponsibility. President
President Kenyatta
dedicated to the principles of independ-
ence, majority rule, and peace and equal-
ity among nations. His voice will be missed
was
in the councils of Africa and the world.
The United States joins with the Gov-
ernment and people of Kenya in mourn-
ing the loss of this great man. The close
relationship between Kenya and the
United States is part of his legacy to both
countries.
Congressional Representation for
the District of Columbia
Statement Following Senate Passage of the
Proposed Constitutional Amendment.
August 22, 1978
I congratulate the Senate on its his-
toric vote this evening. I particularly want
to commend Senators Byrd and Kennedy,
as well as Delegate Fauntroy, for their
tireless efforts to pass the proposed con-
stitutional amendment giving District of
Columbia citizens full voting representa-
tion in Congress.
Because of today's vote, and the
House's favorable vote earlier this year,
we are at long last on the verge of giving
District citizens the representation that
they deserve and that simple justice
demands.
The ratification process for every con-
stitutional amendment is naturally diffi-
cult and time-consuming. But we cannot
let this opportunity to ensure human
rights at home slip away. I therefore urge
the States to ratify this proposed amend-
ment as promptly as possible.
NOTE: Earlier, the Senate had passed H.J.
Res. 554 by a vote of 67 to 32.
National Highway Safety
Advisory Committee
Appointment of 12 Members.
August 23, 1978
The President today announced 12 per-
sons whom he will appoint as members
of the National Highway Safety Advisory
Committee. They are:
THOMAS J. CORCORAN, JR., general manager of
Lewis Toyota Co., Topeka, Kans.;
R. ADAMS COWLEY, M.D., director of the
Maryland Institute for Emergency Medical
Services in Baltimore and professor of tho-
racic and cardiovascular surgery at the Uni-
versity of Maryland School of Medicine;
W. BOONE DARDEN, chief of police of Riviera
Beach, Fla., and a police officer since 1948;
HOWARD G. GIBSON, a judge of the Roseville
(Calif.) judicial district;
DANIEL P. KAVANAUGH, of Metropolitan En-
terprises, an Oklahoma City highway con-
struction business;
1467
