Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
It will keep going down. Next year, with
tough restraints on Federal spending and
moderate economic growth in prospect, I
plan to reduce the budget deficit to less
than one-half what it was when I ran for
office-to $30 billion or less.
The Government has been spending
too great a portion of what our Nation
produces. During my campaign I
promised to cut the Government's share
of our total national spending from 23
percent, which it was then, to 21 percent
in fiscal year 1981. We now plan to meet
that goal 1 year earlier.
Reducing the deficit will require diffi-
cult and unpleasant decisions. We must
face a time of national austerity. Hard
choices are necessary if we want to avoid
consequences that are even worse.
I intend to make those hard choices. I
have already vetoed bills that would
undermine our fight against inflation, and
the Congress has sustained those vetoes.
I know that the Congress will continue to
cooperate in the effort to meet our needs
in responsible, noninflationary ways.
I will use the administrative and the
budgetary powers of my office, including
the veto, if necessary, to keep our Nation
firmly on the path of fiscal restraint.
Restraint involves tax policy as well
as spending decisions. Tax reduction has
never been more politically popular than
it is today. But if future tax cuts are made
rashly, with no eye on the budget deficits,
they will hurt us all by causing more in-
flation.
There are tax cuts which could direct-
ly lower costs and prices and help in the
fight against inflation. I may consider
ways to reduce those particular taxes
while still cutting the budget deficit, but
until we have a convincing prospect of
controlling inflation, I will oppose any
further reductions in Federal income
taxes.
To keep the Government to a man-
ageable size, I'm ordering tonight a cut
in Federal hiring. This order will mean a
reduction of more than 20,000 in the
number of permanent Federal employees
already budgeted for this fiscal year and
will cut the total size of the Federal work
force.
I've already placed a 52-percent cap
on the pay increase for Federal em-
ployees, and Federal executive officers are
receiving no pay increases at all.
It's not enough just to control Govern-
ment deficits, spending, and hiring. We
must also control the costs of Government
regulations.
In recent years, Congress has passed a
number of landmark statutes to improve
social and environmental conditions. We
must and we will continue progress to-
ward protecting the health and safety of
the American people. But we must also
realize that everything has a price and
that consumers eventually pick up the
tab. Where regulations are essential, they
must be efficient. Where they fight infla-
tion, they should be encouraged. Where
they are unnecessary, they should be re-
moved.
Early this year, I directed Federal
agencies to eliminate unnecessary regula-
tions and to analyze the costs and benefits
of new ones. Today, for instance, the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Adminis-
tration, sometimes called OSHA, elim-
inated nearly 1,000 unnecessary regula-
tions.
Now, we can build on this progress.
I've directed a council of my regulatory
departments and agencies to coordinate
their regulations, to prevent overlapping
and duplication. Most important, the
council will develop a unified calendar of
planned major regulations. The calendar
will give us, for the first time, a compre-
hensive list of regulations the Federal
1841
