July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
explosives, the prohibition against the at-
tack on each other's satellites, the lower-
ing of the buildup of military forces in the
Indian Ocean. These kinds of things, I
think, can contribute to overall world
peace.
So, I would say conservation of what we
have, scientific exchange and exploration
for new kinds of energy, more efficient
use of energy we have, and the mainte-
nance of world peace so that normal traf-
fic through the oceans and through the
skies will not be interrupted-those are
the things that I can think of offhand
that we can all do together. And I be-
lieve that we will find both new tech-
nology and new avenues to peace if we
persevere together, and that's my own
commitment. I'm sure it's the commitment
of you and others in this area as well.
EUROCOMMUNISM
Q. Mr. President, my name is Ingeborg
Skrodzki-Dorendorf. I'm a housewife. My
question to you, Mr. President, is this:
How do you see and assess the develop-
ment of Eurocommunism and how do you
assess Eurocommunism?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, we would
prefer that communism in the Western
world be minimal and not increase.
Secondly, we trust the judgment of
free people in free societies to make a de-
termination that communism is not in the
best interest of themselves. We have seen
this occur in recent elections—in France;
in Spain, which is now a democracy; also
in Italy. So, the second point is that we
trust free people to make their own de-
cision, and we don't have any intention
to interfere in the internal political de-
cisionmaking process among our allies.
And the third thing I would like to say
is that the best way to prevent the up-
surge or strengthening of communism is
to make sure that democracy works. And
this can only be possible if the people our-
selves constantly assess the basic founda-
tions or principles on which democratic
systems are founded and exemplify in our
own individual attitude our participa-
tion, our deep commitment to strengthen
democracy and not to weaken it.
When a democratic government is cor-
rupt, when it separates itself from its own
people, when it's insensitive to the suffer-
ing of those who are not so fortunate as
we, when it's resolute and is not forceful
enough in defending itself against out-
side intrusion or threat, those things can
weaken democracy.
I think the other thing that we can do
to strengthen our commitment against
communism is to make sure that the
democracies of the world bind ourselves
together in ever closer ties of friendship,
cooperation, mutual defense, recognize
the individuality of each of us, but point-
ing out those things on which we are in
harmony and strengthening those ties of
friendship and mutual commitment.
So, I believe that this is the best ap-
proach. I've noticed that in the last few
days, particularly in France—I happened
to see a television program-the fore-
most critics of the embarrassing trials of
Shcharanskiy and Ginzburg were the
Communists in France. They led the
march against the Soviet Union's action
in trying these innocent people and sen-
tencing these brave people in the Soviet
Union who spoke up for their own fellow
citizens to have basic human rights.
So, I think that although we don't want
to see communism increase, we want to do
everything we can that I've outlined to
prevent its growth. At the same time we
have to recognize that Eurocommunism
is not a monolithic structure completely
dominated or encapsulated within the
Soviet Union itself. And I think that
gives us some additional hope that even
communism itself in the Western democ-
1302
