Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 1
The Vice President left last night for
the Mideast. We're continuing our ef-
forts there to bring about peace. He will
be making a major address while he's in
Israel, but will be meeting with the mem-
bers of the Begin government, some of the
opposition leaders as well, will be doing
some symbolic things to show the Israeli
people that we genuinely do care about
them, that we are staunch in our com-
mitment to their security, their freedom.
He'll be making a brief visit to Egypt on
the way back home.
Our SALT negotiations are continuing
on a daily basis; those leading up, we
hope, to a success on comprehensive test
ban.
We have a kind of a long-range strug-
gle this is the last point I'd like to
make-in the adherence to the delinea-
tion of responsibility among the different
branches of Government. We've been par-
ticularly concerned in the last few weeks,
months, even years, that the Congress
more and more is getting into the role of
administration, carrying out the provisions
of law that historically have been a pre-
rogative of the President.
Yesterday, the Congress-the House, at
least-passed a very unfortunate amend-
ment which we hope will be stopped be-
fore it becomes law, requiring every reg-
ulation issued by the Secretary of HUD
to be submitted back to the Congress, and
it can't go into effect for 90 days, wait-
ing for Congress to say whether or not the
regulation is advisable or not. It makes
administration of Government almost im-
possible. And sometimes in the heat of a
debate or because of an unpopular deci-
sion that's been made by myself or a Cab-
inet officer, you see that intrusion into
the executive branch of Government by
the legislative branch of Government. We
hope to turn that around. I think it's
unconstitutional, first of all, and it cer-
tainly is counterproductive, secondly.
Those are a few items that I thought
might be interesting to you to start with.
I'd like to answer your questions.
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Going back to the Middle East, Mr.
President, for a second, I know we're
most anxious not to even suggest an
American solution, but what do think
you
the prospects are over time that those
parties can somehow work out something
that we can stay well clear of, except to
endorse?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me first say
that I'm convinced that Prime Minister
Begin and President Sadat genuinely
want peace. I don't think there's any
doubt about it. Ever since Israel became
a nation, it's never had 1 day free of
war or the threat of war, and this is a ter-
rible burden for a people to bear. Sadat
also sees a continuing economic and polit-
ical military problem for his own nation
if the threat of war is there. So, that's
the foundation for my belief that peace is
possible.
As I said in my news conference, we've
been disappointed in the last few days at
the response of the Israeli Government to
the questions that we asked them. And I
believe that to the extent possible, it's
better to let the negotiations be directly
between Israel and her individual
neighbors.
We have not been able so far to get
Begin and Sadat to continue their discus-
sions. There have been some periodic dis-
cussions at the Foreign Minister level and
the Defense Minister level.
I believe the next step in the process,
probably following the Vice President's
visit, will be the promulgation, or at least
the delivery to Israel of the Egyptian
peace proposal. I don't know what's in it.
I don't have any way to know yet. It's
1227
