Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 1
issue. This was the case with Vladivostok,
too. An agreement was reached. It was
then revealed to the public and to the
Congress, and it was a matter of "take it
or leave it."
Nowadays, though, because of my own
inclinations and as an aftermath of Water-
gate and the Vietnam war and a demand
to know, the specifics of negotiations are
known by the public. And it makes it
much more difficult to negotiate, but I
think we are much less likely to make a
serious mistake, as we did in Vietnam and
as we may have on some of the items in
negotiations on SALT.
So, I don't deplore nor regret the at-
tention focused on me as an actual inter-
est on the part of the American people.
My private family life is completely ade-
quate. I have privacy when I want it. And
I think that it's a sound insurance policy
for the American people and the Congress
to be involved in the public debate on
matters of great interest to our Nation,
and to avoid having a tightly held, small
group who in a political closet make a
decision for our country and then reveal
it for the first time.
This occurred during the Presidential
campaign with Angola, where the public
nor the Congress had ever been involved
in an analysis of what occurred in Angola.
After the Portuguese left, Secretary Kis-
singer revealed to the public that we were
planning on getting involved in Angola.
It was really too late; the Congress said
no, and it created a very bad situation for
us. So, there are two sides to it. I think
it's good in the long run, and overall, I'm
pleased with it.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. May I ask about the looming domes-
tic issue starting from the other coast and
trying to yell all the way to Washington,
and that is Proposition 13? And I'd like
to ask on the gut level how you can han-
dle people who have risen up and taken
that much into their hands to let govern-
ment know that it is unresponsive.
THE PRESIDENT. I've heard about
Proposition 13, even way over here in
Washington. [Laughter]
I think there were two factors in Cali-
fornia that may not be prevalent in all
the other States that led to Proposition 13
being adopted. One was the extremely
high property tax rate. California has still
higher property tax rates than many
other States in the Nation, even after
Proposition 13 is imposed. And the other
one was the accumulation of a large State
surplus. These two in combination are
unique, so far as I know.
Another factor was that in California,
a large part of the welfare and social tax
responsibility was on property. When I
became Governor of Georgia, 6 months
later we removed all property tax respon-
sibility for the welfare system. It was all
State. I think that's another factor that
was there. This does occur, I think, in
about roughly 20 States. But I think the
expressions of the public that tax burdens
in general are too high, that the govern-
ment must economize, that taxes be re-
duced, is a clear message above and be-
yond the specific causes of the California
decision.
This is something that hasn't been new.
These were major issues during the cam-
paign, even back in 1976 or 1975, and
they are the kinds of things that I and
Governors around the country have been
pursuing as a political goal and with
some degree of success.
So, I would say that the message came
through clearly that the public wants
lower taxes, more efficiency, less govern-
ment spending, less intrusion in one's pri-
vate life by government. Property taxes
inherently are difficult to have uniform
and fair. I think the people said we would
1229
