Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
thousand dollars to Bill Roy's campaign,
and maybe your wife or husband has also
given a thousand dollars. That's all you
can give legally. And I don't want you
to do anything illegally. [Laughter] But
there's no reason that you can't contact
your friends, your neighbors, other mem-
bers of your family, and help them raise
additional money.
The last 2 or 3 weeks of a campaign is
when Republicans have been most suc-
cessful in the past, when they have upset
Democrats who are favored in the polls,
because they can have a massive blanket-
ing of the news media, radio, television,
newspapers. And we need to protect our-
selves from that. All we want is the Kan-
sas people to know the truth. And this
can be done by word of mouth.
It's extremely important that you con-
centrate on election day as well.
In 1960, two-thirds of the American
people voted on election day. In recent
elections, two-thirds of the American peo-
ple did not vote on election day. And
sometimes, as you know, a campaign turns
on very, very few votes. In Ohio, recently,
almost every major campaign has been
decided on less than one vote per precinct.
And I hope that all of you will remem-
ber this and organize in your own way an
effective "Get Out the Vote" campaign
on election day. So, organize ahead of
time additional recruits to campaign
actively. Give financially as much as you
can and make sure that on election day
you, your family, your neighbors, your
whole community is reminded that if you
don't vote, you are the loser.
We're going to make an effort all over
the Nation to remind people to vote, but
there is absolutely no substitute for direct
contact from a citizen who is known by
someone who says, "I believe we ought
to vote today."
Now, I know what can be done. When
I was campaigning for President, my first
test was in Iowa. In the entire State of
Iowa, less than 30,000 people went to the
Democratic caucuses to choose the dele-
gates to the national convention. It was in
January of 1975. In those last few days
from my bedroom in Plains, Georgia, with
the telephone, I called an average of 125
or 130 people long-distance every day to
ask them to give me their support for
President. And I consider those telephone
calls to have been the difference, perhaps,
between my having been elected President
and losing.
And there's no reason that any of you,
whether you've got a secretary to place
the calls or whether you do it on your own,
can't go down a portion of a telephone
book and call those that you know and
say, "Tomorrow or today is election day.
Let's all go out and support John Carlin,
support Bill Roy, support Dan Glickman,
and have a good strong team in whom
we can have confidence to lead our State
and to lead our Nation." I'm very serious
about this, and I want you to be serious
as well.
That's my speech. I'm going to leave
in a few minutes to go to Minnesota. But
as I do leave, I hope that you will not take
lightly what I've asked you to do. It's a
tremendous investment in a better life for
you and a better life for the people that
you love. And I hope that you won't over-
look this opportunity to make our Nation
one of which you can be proud and feel
that
you are part of a team.
Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to
take the rest of my time-I'm going to go
through the crowd, and I'll have to keep
moving, but I'd like to shake hands with
as many people as I can reach in a few
minutes.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:43 p.m. in
the Service Club Room at the Century II Con-
vention Center.
1821
