Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
person, bipartisan board that serves for
7 years, isolated from politics, with a
unique responsibility to preserve rights.
So, I think that in the routine case, the
employees' rights will be much better pro-
tected than they are now.
Let me give you a notable example
from past history, perhaps the most fa-
mous person who has suffered. And that's
Ernest Fitzgerald, who, through his own
insistence, pointed out an example of great
waste in the Federal Government. Under
the present merit system, he has, through
his own analysis, been punished because
of that whistleblowing experience. That
would not be possible under the proposed
legislation. He would be protected and
could not be punished, could not be
silenced, in fact, may very well have been
rewarded.
So, I think that the average employee
will be protected even better than now,
and the past abuses of whistleblowers, so-
called, will be prevented in the future.
Now, I'm convinced that that's true,
and I believe that your organization and
tive analysis of competence and dedica-
tion and, I think, quicker reward.
For those who are seeking jobs, the hir-
ing delays will be minimized. If an em-
ployee is recommended for discharge, the
hearing of the case protecting the work-
er's rights even better would be abbrevi-
ated, so there wouldn't be these long,
dragged out procedures. And I think it's
good to remember that here in the pres-
ence of people who are obviously compe-
tent and dedicated, that it's an abuse for
a good employee to protect one who's no
good. That's an extreme minority, I know.
But if you have a person sitting next to
you who is a laggard or lazy or incom-
petent, supposedly sharing the workload,
in effect you have to do that person's
work, or part of it, in addition to your
own.
So, I think there will be a much bet-
ter recognition of achievement at all lev-
els of employment and a much quicker
correction if someone is assigned to a job
and doesn't perform it.
Perhaps again I could call on Scotty
Ken Blaylock, who's been superb in help- Campbell to add some remarks.
ing us protect employees' rights, would
agree with what I've said.
MR. BUCKLE. We applaud your sepa-
ration of the Civil Service Commission
into the Personnel Management Office
and the Merit System Protection Board.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Buckle.
CEOLA B. NAYLOR. Mr. President, I'm
Ceola Naylor. I'm a secretary with the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment. I would like to know what
will be the effects of the reorganization
on nonmanagerial employees such as sec-
retaries and clericals.
THE PRESIDENT. I think part of my an-
swer to Mr. Buckle's question would ap-
ply as well, that your basic rights would
be protected. There will be a more effec-
MR. CAMPBELL. Just a quick comment,
Mr. President. As I've traveled around
the country talking to Federal employees,
and as we heard from the agencies in
Washington when hearings were held
there, a major criticism in the Federal
Government, as you are undoubtedly
aware, is of the managers and the super-
visors not doing an adequate job in terms
of rank-and-file employees, that I have
often been accused of pointing my finger
at the wrong people because we have not
emphasized sufficiently the problems on
the managerial side. And I think that's a
fair comment.
And I would guess that one of the
best things that will come out of these
changes is a fantastic improvement in
the quality of supervision and manage-
ment in the Federal Government, which
1367
