Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to an improved United States export per-
formance.
DIRECT ASSISTANCE TO UNITED STATES
EXPORTERS
1. Export-Import Bank. I have con-
sistently supported a more effective and
aggressive Export-Import Bank. During
the past 2 years, my administration has in-
creased Eximbank's loan authorization
fivefold-from $700 million in FY 1977 to
$3.6 billion for FY 1979. I intend to ask
Congress for an additional $500 million in
FY 1980, bringing Eximbank's total loan
authorization to $4.1 billion. These au-
thorizations will provide the Bank with
the funds necessary to improve its com-
petitiveness, in a manner consistent with
our international obligations, through in-
creased flexibility in the areas of interest
rates, length of loans, and the percentage
of a transaction it can finance. The Bank
is also moving to simplify its fee schedules
and to make its programs more accessible
to smaller exporters and to agricultural
exporters.
2. SBA Loans to Small Exporters.
The Small Business Administration will
channel up to $100 million of its current
authorization for loan guarantees to small
business exporters to provide seed money
for their entry into foreign markets. Small
exporting firms meeting SBA's qualifica-
tions will be eligible for loan guarantees
totaling up to $500,000 to meet needs for
expanded production capacity and to ease
cash flow problems involving overseas
sales or initial marketing expenses.
3. Export Development Programs. I
am directing the Office of Management
and Budget to allocate an additional $20
million in annual resources for export de-
velopment programs of the Departments
of Commerce and State to assist United
States firms, particularly small and
medium-sized businesses, in marketing
abroad through:
-a computerized information system
to provide exporters with prompt access
to international marketing opportunities
abroad and to expose American products
to foreign buyers;
-risk-sharing programs to help associ-
ations and small companies meet initial
export marketing costs; and
-targeted assistance to firms and in-
dustries with high export potential and
intensified short-term export campaigns
in promising markets.
4. Agricultural Exports. Agricultural
exports are a vital component of the U.S.
trade balance. Over the past 10 years, the
volume of U.S. farm exports has doubled
and the dollar value has nearly quadru-
pled. Trade in agricultural products will
contribute a net surplus of almost $13 bil-
lion in fiscal year 1978. This strong per-
formance is due in part to this administra-
tion's multifaceted agricultural export
policy, which will be strengthened and
which includes:
-An increase of almost $1 billion (up
from $750 million in FY 1977 to $1.7 bil-
lion in FY 1978) in the level of short-term
export credits.
-An increase of almost 20 percent in
the level of funding support for a highly
successful program of cooperation with
over 60 agricultural commodity associa-
tions in market development.
-Efforts in the Multilateral Trade Ne-
gotiations to link the treatment of agricul-
tural and nonagricultural products.
-Opening trade offices in key import-
ing nations in order to facilitate the de-
velopment of these markets.
-Aggressive pursuit of an interna-
tional wheat agreement to ensure our
producers a fair share of the expanding
world market.
-Support of legislation to provide in-
termediate export credit for selective agri-
cultural exports.
1632
