Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
phrey, Muriel Humphrey have been in-
spirations to all of us. Wendy Anderson,
Bob Short will make a great team in
Washington to help me. Rudy Perpich,
here, Marty Schreiber, great Governors,
epitomizing what we know is best for our
country.
If you want jobs, if you want inflation
controlled, if you want to cut the Federal
deficit, make government more respon-
sive to you, give our farmers and city
dwellers a better life, our children a bet-
ter education, a government of which we
can be proud, a statesman-like attitude
toward foreign affairs, military strength
designed to bring world peace to us and
others throughout the world, then work
hard the next 3 days, vote Tuesday, send
a strong Democratic team to victory. And
I will be deeply appreciative as President
of the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:35 p.m. at
the Duluth Arena Auditorium. In his opening
remarks, he referred to John C. White, Demo-
cratic National Committee chairman.
Following the rally, the President re-
turned to Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
October 28
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
Following his return to the White House
from the trip to New York, Connecticut,
Massachusetts, and Maine, the President
met with W. Michael Blumenthal, Secre-
tary, and Anthony M. Solomon, Under
Secretary for Monetary Affairs, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, Federal Reserve
Board Chairman G. William Miller,
Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, and Alfred
E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on In-
flation, to discuss the forthcoming Treas-
ury Department and Federal Reserve
measures to strengthen the dollar in do-
mestic and international markets.
The President left the White House for
a stay at Camp David, Md.
October 30
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David.
The President has declared an emer-
gency for the State of California because
of the impact of brushfires which oc-
curred in the County of Los Angeles be-
tween October 23-25.
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted
a Halloween party at the White House
for members of the White House staff and
their guests.
October 31
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of
the Office of Management and
Budget, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs
and Policy, and Mr. Schultze, to re-
view the fiscal year 1980 Federal
budget;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of
Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jor-
dan, Assistant to the President, and
Dr. Brzezinski;
-His Imperial Highness Crown Prince
Reza of Iran;
1954
