Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 18
Congressman Brinkley and Max
Cleland, all of those who worked so hard,
I want to thank you for it.
Jack, you might want to say a word.
REPRESENTATIVE BRINKLEY. Thank you
very much, Mr. President. It's a joy for
me to be here representing the Third Dis-
trict of Georgia, which is the district en-
compassing Plains, Georgia, and to have
had an active part in the role of the Vet-
erans Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives. The housing subcommittee, on
which Elizabeth Lunsford is majority
counsel, deals with housing, which is im-
portant, basic, and fundamental for vet-
erans. Our housing bill touches retirees,
other veterans, and active duty military
personnel. It streamlines the law and
brings it up to date. It's important to the
economy and to the quality of life of these
men, and we're just grateful to have had
a part in it.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jack.
Max?
MR. CLELAND. It's an honor to be with
you this morning, and I'm especially
grateful to you for having representatives
of the major veterans organizations with
us today. Without their help, this legisla-
tion couldn't be possible.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Congress. I'm glad to be a part of it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Max
Cleland is Administrator of Veterans Affairs.
As enacted, H.R. 11886 is Public Law 95-
479, and H.R. 12028 is Public Law 95-476,
both approved October 18.
Veterans Disability Compensation
and Survivors Benefits and
Housing Benefits Bills
Statement on Signing H.R. 11886 and
H.R. 12028 Into Law. October 18, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law today
H.R. 11886, the Veterans' Disability Com-
pensation and Survivors' Benefits Act of
1978, and H.R. 12028, the Veterans'
Housing Benefits Act of 1978.
Our Nation owes no greater responsi-
bility or debt of gratitude than to the men
and women who served their country in
battle and came back with disabling in-
juries. Because of that debt, we have gladly
provided compensation payments.
reduced the value of that compensation,
However, in the last year, inflation has
and, unlike social security or other pro-
grams, there is no automatic inflation ad-
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Max, very justment. H.R. 11886 will increase these
much.
I think the Congress has made it possi-
ble to improve greatly the attention paid
to Vietnam veterans. And we've seen sub-
stantial improvement in their employment
opportunities and in the services given to
them.
As all of you know, in the past number
of years, we have not honored Vietnam
veterans from our hearts or actions as
previous veterans of other wars were hon-
ored. And I'm very glad to see this defect
in our societal attitudes corrected by the
payments by 7.3 percent, so that bene-
ficiaries do not unfairly bear the brunt of
inflation.
Inflation has also driven up the cost of
housing, as most of us know. H.R. 12028
will expand the opportunities for our vet-
erans, especially the younger, Vietnam
era veterans who are entering a very ex-
pensive housing market for the first time.
This bill will increase the maximum
home loan guarantee to a more realistic
level, expand the VA home loan program
to purchasing condominiums and mobile
1791
