Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I became President; now the utilization of
plant capacity in our country in the steel
industry has risen to 90 percent. Ship-
ments of steel throughout the world, as you
well know, have dropped off at an alarm-
ing rate in the last 2 years, but shipments
of domestic steel this year are already up 5
percent over last year. Industry revenues,
which are needed to modernize the plants
and equipment to keep you in jobs in the
future, have risen substantially.
We will continue to work toward an in-
ternational steel agreement with our
major trading partners to deal with the
problems of a depressed world steel mar-
ket. I pledge to you that we will sign no
agreement that is not fair to American
steelworkers and to the people of the
United States.
Closely related to our trade problems is
the challenge of the energy crisis. Last
year, foreign oil cost us in American dol-
lars $45 billion. This is an increase of 800
percent in the last 6 years. This means
that this massive export of American
dollars is not only eroding the value of
American dollars overseas, it's helped to
build the inflation that we face at home.
It's weakened confidence in our Gov-
ernment, both here and throughout the
world. It's cost America many jobs and
will cost many more in the future. It's left
our Nation far too dependent on uncer-
tain foreign oil supplies for the energy that
we must have to run our steel mills, to
heat our homes and our schools, and to
fuel our transportation system.
The Senate began voting yesterday on
one of the most crucial parts of my na-
tional energy plan, the natural gas confer-
ence report. This legislation, when passed,
will save our country, in oil imports, 2 mil-
lion barrels per day by 1985, keeping jobs
here at home, making us independent,
letting us have a sound, sure supply of
natural gas in States where it's not pro-
duced, with carefully prescribed prices,
predictable prices.
As you well know, industry is now tend-
ing to move to States that produce natural
gas from States that are not major natural
gas producers. This legislation will let
those opportunities for jobs prevail
throughout our country and, at the same
time, will not damage the economic
strength or prosperity of the natural gas
and oil-producing States, either.
We must pass this legislation to ensure
that industries and communities which de-
pend on natural gas will be assured of con-
tinued supplies. This is especially true, as
you well know, in the steel industry.
I'm sure that you all remember the
crisis that this Nation faced during the
natural gas shortage in the winter of 1977,
just after I became President.
Nationwide, more than a million Amer-
icans were laid off because American gas
industry could not obtain, could not sup-
ply enough, and the rest of industry in our
country could not obtain the gas it needed.
Between fifty and a hundred thousand
steelworkers were left unemployed. Our
Nation and your own members, other
working people in our country, cannot af-
ford that kind of loss in the future.
Passage of this legislation, along with
the other less controversial energy confer-
ence reports before the Congress, will give
our Nation what America so badly
needs our first national energy plan. The
consequences of failure for our country
are unacceptable. We have debated long
enough. It's time to put the interest of our
Nation and the American people first and
act without further delay to have a na-
tional energy policy to benefit you and
all others. I ask you this morning to help
me with this crucial decision that will af-
fect your lives.
1546
