Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to-work or to establish right-to-work laws.
This is a matter that I doubt the Con-
gress will address in any concerted fashion
during the coming year. So, I don't think
that the Missouri decision will have a
great effect on the National Government.
It's a very highly controversial issue. The
Missouri people spoke, I think, clearly, by
a 3-to-2 margin. And I think this would
be certainly a discouragement for an at-
tempt in other States to impose right-to-
work.
MR. JACKSON. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I've enjoyed being here. And I'm going
now to speak to the 50th anniversary of
the FFA organization of our country, of
which I was a member early in my life.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-ninth news
conference began at 12 p.m. in the Grand Ball-
room at the Muehlebach Hotel. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
Kansas City, Missouri
Remarks at the National Convention of the
Future Farmers of America.
November 9, 1978
President Ken Johnson, former FFA ad-
viser of Plains High School, L. K. Moss,
fellow members of the FFA:
I'm proud to be with you today as a
man who comes on behalf of 220 million
Americans to say congratulations on your
50th anniversary.
I'm not here as a senior statesman of
the FFA, to give you advice and counsel
on how to run your lives. When I was in
my final stages of campaigning for Gov-
ernor, I went to Macon, Georgia, to at-
tend the Governor's Honors Program, a
group of the 400 brightest students in
Georgia who were honored each summer
with an 8-week training course. And they
have a special day called Careers Day, and
I was invited to be the main speaker.
I was very proud of myself. And when
I was introduced by the host, a young
man from south Georgia, he said, "We
are very glad to have with us"—at that
time "State Senator Jimmy Carter. He's
from Plains, Georgia. He went to Georgia
Southwestern College, where he studied
chemistry. He went to Georgia Tech,
where he studied engineering. He grad-
uated from the U.S. Naval Academy,
where he studied naval science. He did
graduate work in nuclear physics at Union
College in Schenectady, New York. Now
he's growing peanuts." [Laughter] “And
he's here to tell us how to plan our life's
career."
Well, my speech was over before I got
the audience back. So, I'm not here to
give you advice on how to plan your life's
career.
The first thing I joined in my life was
the Baptist Church. The second thing I
joined in my life was the FFA. Our great
organization was then only 9 years old.
And as I began to prepare this talk-I
don't have any text at all-I thought I
would give you some observations from
the point of view of the President of the
United States and from the point of view
of the secretary of the FFA Chapter in
Plains, about the changes that have taken
place in those years since I became a
member of this great organization and be-
gan to learn about myself, my commu-
nity, my Nation, my responsibilities.
In 1937, when I joined the FFA, farm
life was much more similar to farm life
in the time of Christ or the time of the
pharaohs thousands of
pharaohs thousands of years ago than it
was similar to farming today. We had no
tractors on our farm. We had no hybrid
seed to plant. Fertilizers were very lim-
ited. Excessive cultivation robbed our
crops of their basic strength. The only
pesticide we had was arsenic, applied by
1994
