Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
1
do, if we cared, to resolve New York City's
financial crisis and to put this State back
on the road to prosperity.
Hugh Carey inherited a State deficit of
a billion dollars. You now enjoy a State
surplus of $600 million. Hugh Carey saw
that taxes on your shoulders were too
great. He has reduced State taxes $1.3
billion.
Hugh Carey cares about people, people
of all kinds, and he's provided services to
you, a strong anticrime program to make
your streets and your homes safer.
Hugh Carey was concerned about the
unemployment rate in this State, and the
unemployment rate in the last 21 months
has dropped in New York State 35 per-
cent.
He's a Governor who believes in eco-
nomic development of all kinds, all over
New York, and he's a man who believes in
tough, competent fiscal management.
Hugh Carey is one of my staunchest allies
in trying to fight against inflation.
We tried unsuccessfully this year to get
a hospital cost containment bill through
the Congress, because costs of hospital
care have gone up twice as fast as the very
high inflation rate in our Nation. I was
not successful. I'm going to continue to
fight next year. And a beautiful pattern
for us to use in Congress is what Hugh
Carey has already done in New York
State.
There was 1 State among all 50 last
year where the costs of hospital care went
down. Do you know what State that was?
New York—the only one. The next best
State in holding down hospital costs had
an increase of 9 percent. You, now, in
your State have the lowest Medicaid cost
of any State in our entire Nation.
These are the kinds of things that quite
often have not been emphasized enough
by Hugh Carey, who's a modest man. But
we require a Democratic team, and we re-
quire the ability to work together, and
particularly we need to have your trust,
your confidence, and your support.
This is a very close election in prospect
for you in November. Hugh Carey was in
Congress 14 years. The people there trust
him; they trust Ed Koch. And they know
that those two men who serve you are
thoroughly aware of the congressional
procedures and also thoroughly aware of
the needs of New York City and New
York State.
I'd like to point out one other thing:
We have a great population in New York
of leaders from almost every nation on
Earth. This is a living demonstration, in
your great community of millions of peo-
ple, of how basic human rights can be
achieved here through good services, jobs,
lower taxes, safer streets, equal opportu-
nity, which can be used as a pattern for
other nations around the world.
When I have a problem in dealing with
international affairs-bringing human
rights to Northern Ireland, bringing hu-
man rights and peace to the Mideast-I
know that I can refer to and depend upon
the advice and the counsel and support of
your great Democratic Party leadership
here-Hugh Carey, Ed Koch, Pat Moyni-
han, and others.
in helping to guide me in making decisions
It's a very great influence that you enjoy
that affect your own ancestors, your own
relatives, in troubled areas of the world.
November 7 is a time for you to take a
few minutes and to express your views of
Hugh Carey and his good team, and also
support for good leaders, particularly
to show this country and the rest of the
world that you have confidence in the fu-
ture of our Nation and that you are will-
ing to invest a small portion of your time
and effort to let your voice be heard. It
strengthens me in dealing with your pro-
blems to know that you care enough to
vote.
1930
