July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
even sometimes in criticism of one's own
government. The Soviets have violated
the various agreements which they vol-
untarily signed.
SOVIET DISSIDENTS
MR. LOHFELDT. The Soviets argue that
the dissident trials are a purely Soviet
matter and charge your administration
with interference in their internal affairs.
THE PRESIDENT. When we speak out on
humanitarian issues, we do so not to inter-
fere in the internal affairs of other na-
tions, but because of our belief in the value
of the individual. Our concern for human
rights is global and is not restricted to any
nation or region. But my guess is that this
effort in stamping out dissident voices will
be unsuccessful. So, I don't look upon this
action by the Soviets as an attack on me
or on the American people. It doesn't
damage our country. I think it arises an
almost universal, justifiable condemnation
of the world towards the Soviets and re-
veals a weakness of their own system of
not being able to withstand the lonely
voice of a dissident or an accurate news-
paper report that is printed not in the
Soviet Union, but in a foreign country.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
MR. LOHFELDT. In view of the most
recent Soviet actions, especially the trials
in Moscow, the pressure of linking these
actions and SALT is rapidly growing here
in Washington. Senator Jackson called the
resumption of the SALT talks "the wrong
signal at the wrong time." What is your
answer to these pressures?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, throughout his-
tory the interrelationship between the
Soviet Union and the United States has
demonstrated the advisability of search-
ing out common ground on which we
could cooperate to the mutual benefit of
our people.
In the heat of the Vietnam war, I think
in the same month that we mined the har-
bor of Haiphong, SALT I was signed. So,
when it is obviously to the mutual benefit
of our people and to the benefit of the en-
tire world to restrict or even to reduce the
level of nuclear weapon inventories, it
would be a serious mistake to terminate
those discussions or those conferences be-
cause of other factors which don't directly
reflect on them. So, we have kept separate
the negotiations with the Soviet Union on
SALT.
But we reserve the right to privately
and publicly criticize the Soviets when
they violate the basic human rights agree-
ments that they have signed or when
through unwarranted actions they have
intruded themselves or their surrogates,
the Cuban troops, into the internal
affairs of, for instance, African nations.
MR. LOHFELDT. Do you share Secretary
Vance's optimism that a new SALT
agreement will ultimately be ratified by
the U.S. Senate? Right now it seems
that many Senators consider the linkage
a reality and would not be prepared to
judge a new SALT agreement on its own
merits, but rather in connection with the
general Soviet behavior.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, my belief is that
the Senate will ultimately make a judg-
ment on the merits of the agreement it-
self. And there is an overwhelming sup-
port for a successful and mutually bene-
ficial SALT agreement among
agreement among the
American people. I think this support
will be mirrored ultimately in the action
of the U.S. Senate. And my experience
with the Senate has been that in a show-
down, when the final decision is made,
they will act responsibly and in the best
interest of all.
MR. LOHFELDT. Like in the debate on
the Panama Canal treaties?
1274
