Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
things, very briefly, are what I would
favor seeing done.
MICHAEL DUKAKIS
Q. Michael Dukakis, the Democratic
Governor of Massachusetts, has been de-
feated in the recent primary. The rumor
is rampant in Massachusetts that you'll
appoint him to a high Federal post. Is
this true?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no idea.
[Laughter]
Mike Dukakis, in my opinion, is one of
the best Governors I have ever known.
He's a hard-working, brilliant young
man, who perhaps was not quite sensitive
enough about political issues. He says
what he thinks. He tries to fight for what
he believes in. He's had some very diffi-
cult challenges as Governor, bringing the
budget under control and so forth.
I think he's done an outstanding job.
I don't know his opponent well enough to
comment on the comparison between the
two; Massachusetts Democrats have
chosen. But I've never discussed any sort
of employment with Mike Dukakis. I
don't have anything in mind at all. He
would be well qualified to serve in any
capacity, in my opinion.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir? One other
question.
POSTAL REFORM LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to know if
postal reform legislation now making its
way through Congress meets your admin-
istration's restrained budget philosophy as
described by Mr. Cutter 2 this morning?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter]
Q. Why not?
THE PRESIDENT. I just said one more
question. [Laughter]
2 W. Bowman Cutter, Executive Assistant
for Budget, Office of Management and Budget.
I'm really out of time. I've got another
meeting with a group of editors who are
here, at the Woodrow Wilson Institute,
studying Latin America. And these are
people who are constrained to write and
to study about Latin America, but have
come here for 2 days, I think, to learn
more about that subject. And I have to
go and meet with them.
I would like to take just a moment to
ask each of you, if you have no objection,
to come by and let me get a quick photo-
graph with you, and again, to express my
thanks for your willingness to come to the
White House and, particularly, to learn
about our Government.
We don't know all the answers. I'm
sure we've made a lot of mistakes. We'll
make a lot in the future. But there's a good
kind of a sense, I think-at least in the
White House that we are making ade-
quate progress, a good, cooperative atti-
tude between Capitol Hill and the White
House. And of course, the most impor-
tant element is how well we understand
and serve the American people repre-
sented by you.
So, again, thank you very much for let-
ting me be with you and to have the bene-
fit of your questions and your suggestions.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Patricia
Y. Bario is Associate Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 23.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Senior Editors on Latin American
Affairs. September 22, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it puts me at quite
a disadvantage to follow Dr. Brzezinski in
describing what our overall policy is, or
even the details of Nicaragua. I think all
1596
