Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 26
Lately we've seen a slowing down in
research and development commitment in
our country as well, and we hope to ex-
pedite a recommitment to planning for
the future, so that we can be technolog-
ically compatible and competitive with
our foreign trading partners.
We also, of course, want to remove
trade barriers that have been created by
congressional action and by administra-
tive action which prevent exports from
going overseas, and we are negotiating
with our foreign trade partners to elimi-
nate trade barriers that prevent our own
products from entering their countries.
In doing this, we must be careful not to
lower our standards for environmental
quality or the safety or health of Amer-
ican workers, or our commitment to prin-
ciples of human rights and others on
which our Nation has been founded and
exists.
Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps
will now give you some specific proposals
that have been evolved by her own de-
partment, by Members of Congress, by
other members of the Cabinet, and by the
business and labor leaders of our country.
Secretary Kreps.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:33 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Sec-
retary Kreps held a news conference on the
proposals.
United States Export Policy
Statement by the President.
September 26, 1978
It is important for this Nation's eco-
nomic vitality that both the private sector
and the Federal Government place a
higher priority on exports. I am today an-
nouncing a series of measures that evi-
dences my administration's strong com-
mitment to do so.
The large trade deficits the United
States has experienced in recent years
have weakened the value of the dollar,
intensified inflationary pressures in our
own economy, and heightened instability
in the world economy. These trade def-
icits have been caused by a number of
factors. A major cause has been our ex-
cessive reliance on imported oil. We can
reduce that reliance through the passage
of sound energy legislation this year. An-
other factor is that the United States econ-
omy has been growing at a stronger pace
in recent years than the economies of our
major trading partners. That has enabled
us to purchase relatively more foreign
goods while our trading partners have not
been able to buy as much of our exports.
We will begin to correct this imbalance
as our trading partners meet the commit-
ments to economic expansion they made
at the Bonn summit.
The relatively slow growth of Amer-
ican exports has also been an important
factor in our trade deficit problem. Over
the past 20 years, our exports have grown
at only half the rate of other industrial
nations, and the United States has been
losing its share of world markets. Until
now, both business and Government have
accorded exports a relatively low prior-
ity. These priorities must be changed.
The measures I am announcing today
consist of actions this administration has
taken and will take to:
(1) provide increased direct assistance
to United States exporters;
(2) reduce domestic barriers to ex-
ports; and
(3) reduce foreign barriers to our ex-
ports and secure a fairer interna-
tional trading system for all ex-
porters.
These actions are in furtherance of the
commitment I made at the Bonn summit
1631
