Nov. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The two Chiefs of State examined the
situation in Africa. The President thanked
His Majesty for his description of the sit-
uation in northwest Africa and expressed
his appreciation for the efforts undertaken
by Morocco to end the tension existing
there and to create conditions for the es-
tablishment of fruitful cooperation be-
tween the countries of the region. They
agreed that the OAU is the most appro-
priate framework for the resolution of
African problems, and they expressed sat-
isfaction at the decision of the OAU to
establish a Committee of Wisemen. Re-
viewing other points of tension which
exist in Africa, the two Chiefs of State
condemned foreign intervention and the
arms races which have been their result.
The two leaders discussed at length re-
cent developments concerning the Mid-
dle East. President Carter, after having
outlined to His Majesty the status of the
discussions currently underway, explained
the American objectives in the peace
process, and he reiterated the willingness
of the United States to continue to play
a role leading to the establishment in the
region of a just, durable, and global peace.
His Majesty the King, in reaffirming that
the Palestinian problem constitutes a fun-
damental element in the search for a solu-
tion and for the establishment of peace
in the area, explained that the Moroccan
position is based on the decisions made at
the Arab Summit meeting held at Rabat
in 1974.
With respect to the situation in Leba-
non, the two parties noted their commit-
ment to respect the sovereignty, unity, and
territorial integrity of that country. They
renewed their support for the work of na-
tional reconciliation undertaken under
the aegis of President Sarkis.
His Majesty the King expressed his
deep thanks to President Carter for the
warm welcome and great friendship
shown him during his visit to the United
States as well as that extended to the
members of the Royal Family and to the
Moroccan delegation.
His Majesty invited President Carter to
visit Morocco. The President thanked His
Majesty and accepted the invitation, with
the date and details of the visit to be ar-
ranged through diplomatic channels.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 12099. November 17, 1978
LEVELS IV AND V OF THE EXECUTIVE
SCHEDULE
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident of the United States of America by
Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and in order to place the
position of Director of Policy Review,
Department of Defense, in level IV of the
Executive Schedule, Executive Order No.
12076 of August 18, 1978, is amended by
deleting "Director of Policy Review, De-
partment of Defense." from Section 1-
102(e) and inserting "(r) Director of
Policy Review, Department of Defense."
in alphabetical order in Section 1-101
thereof.
The White House,
November 17, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:22 p.m., November 17, 1978]
President's Commission on
Pension Policy
Executive Order 12100. November 17, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution of the United
States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
2056
