Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
had here in Minnesota with an enlight-
ened and a progressive government.
I wouldn't say that I'm tired, but I
haven't had much rest since we began the
summit talks at Camp David. And I didn't
have to come here tonight, because I'd
like to be going back to Washington to be
with my family for a change. But I've
come here, and so has the Vice President,
because I care about what happens in
Minnesota Tuesday night when the elec-
tion returns come in. It's important to the
country. And it's a completely legitimate
thing for a President to care who the Gov-
ernor of a State is and who the Members
of the Senate are.
We didn't get where we are by giving
up. And in the last few weeks I've heard
some of the most important and promi-
nent and even loyal Democrats from Min-
nesota saying, "I'm afraid we've lost one
of our Senate seats. I'm afraid we have an
insurmountable obstacle to overcome.'
That's not the spirit of America. That's
not the spirit of the DFL. It's not the
spirit which I try to epitomize as Presi-
dent.
Many of you come here tonight because
you are loyal, and I appreciate your being
here. And perhaps you've worked hard in
the past elections to have DFL nominees
elected. You've proven that with the su-
perb public servants that you've elected to
represent your State here and also in
Washington.
But it's not a time to give up. We've 3
more days, and there's no reason why
everyone here tonight shouldn't put in 30
hours on the telephone, walking the
streets, asking your family, your neighbors,
your community to support the candidates
Tuesday night and win a victory for Min-
nesota and for our country.
We are not a nation that's ever sur-
prised when we win a victory, because
there's a spirit within our country that
far surpasses in most cases what govern-
ment is. But I'm afraid that in your State
this year, because of divisions within your
party, that your public officials might be
better than the people themselves. And
I've come to ask you not to let them down.
They are great nominees. They're differ-
ent from one another. Fritz Mondale and
I are different from one another. He has
constituencies that I'm not very familiar
with, and so do I have people who know
me better than they know him. But we
work as a team with our differences in-
tact, and out of that comes strength.
I spent last night with a Croatian fam-
ily in Chicago, Mayor Michael Bilandic.
His parents haven't been here long. I met
his mother. She doesn't speak English very
well; I could hardly hear what she said.
But she said every night she kneels down
beside the bed, and she prays for me as
President. And she prays that our country
will be even greater.
Marty Schreiber comes from next door
in Wisconsin. He's running against a cute
Republican candidate who said the other
day that elderly people are millstones
around the neck of young Americans.
That's the kind of philosophy that rep-
resents the Republican Party. It's the kind
of philosophy that's brought me here to
you tonight. I don't consider my mother
to be a millstone around my neck. And I
don't believe you consider your parents
to be that either.
I've got great burdens on my shoulders.
I asked for them, and I enjoy my job. But
I need help in Washington and also in the
State offices of this country from people
who share a common philosophy with me.
We intend to continue to put Americans
back to work, to add jobs, to give people
the basic right to support themselves, to
take whatever talent or ability God might
have given them and use it in a useful
way.
We're trying to control inflation. When
I became President, we had an average
1952
