July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
for all of you-and this goes for soldiers
all over the world-personal sacrifices are
involved in your service.
But I do hope that you, the American
soldiers, will also feel that you are wel-
come to us, not only as members of the
forces of an allied power, but that you
are welcome to us as friends.
Let me address my final remarks to
Americans and Germans alike. We are
serving together the same fundamental
values-freedom and dignity of man.
And I thank all those who together join
hands in this service.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:12 a.m. to
members of the American 4th Infantry Brigade
and the German 14th Panzer Brigade following
his review of a military display at the base.
Chancellor Schmidt spoke in German, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Vice Chancellor Hans-Dietrich Gens-
cher and Defense Minister Hans Apel.
Earlier in the day, President Carter and
Chancellor Schmidt toured a display of NATO
armaments at Rhine-Main Air Base
Frankfurt.
Frankfurt, Federal Republic of
Germany
Remarks at the Frankfurt City Hall.
July 15, 1978
Chancellor Schmidt, distinguished offi-
cials of the Federal Republic of Germany
and the great city of Frankfurt:
I bring you greetings and friendship
from the 220 million people of the United
States of America.
In a few moments I will visit the Kai-
sersaal and sign your Golden Book. Fif-
teen years ago, President John F. Ken-
nedy signed this same historic roll, and he
said, and I quote, "We are partners in
peace-not in a narrow bilateral context,
but in a framework of Atlantic
partnership."
Today that partnership is stronger than
it has ever been, and our two nations are
united in an ever-broader alliance of mili-
tary, economic, and political purpose.
Our military partnership is evident.
I've come here from a visit to Brigade '76,
where I spoke to both German and Amer-
ican troops and their families. At your
airport, I reviewed German and Ameri-
can aircraft. Everywhere in Germany I
see evidence of our mutual commitment,
our mutual endeavor. German and Amer-
ican troops, working side by side, are tan-
gible evidence of our shared responsibility
and our joint commitment to the contin-
uing freedom not only of Germany and
of the Continent but of the United States
and of all Allied territory.
Our economic partnership is equally
visible. Tomorrow your Chancellor and I
will join our colleagues from five other
great nations to consider the economic
problems of our regions and the world in
the summit conference in Bonn.
The economic summit is one tangible
sign of a continuing search for solutions
to age-old problems of global inequity.
The United States and the Federal Re-
public attend these deliberations with
united purpose-to look beyond narrow
self-interest to the broader interest of all
nations. Our two great and free nations
believe equally in our obligation to pro-
mote global-and not just national-
prosperity.
Our political partnership is the bul-
wark of freedom for all nations. Together
our people, yours and mine, demonstrate
democracy in action: two free nations-
one with an old culture and a new Con-
stitution, the other with a newer culture
and an older Constitution-both equally
committed to the vision of a free people
1292
