Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
CWPS has the authority to obtain,
where necessary, required information on
prices, profits, and wage rates. It will pub-
licly identify areas of the economy and
firms that are not complying with the
standards.
-In addition CWPS will monitor on a
regular basis wage and price develop-
ments of individual firms whose annual
sales exceed $500 million. It will also
monitor individually all major collective
bargaining settlements.
Assistance for Minority and
Disadvantaged Small Businesses
Statement on Signing H.R. 11318 Into Law.
October 25, 1978
I am pleased to sign H.R. 11318, a bill
which assists minority and socially and
economically disadvantaged small busi-
nesses through investment, procurement,
management, and technical assistance
programs in the Small Business Adminis-
tration (SBA). This bill also sets up ways
for small businesses to participate more in
Federal Government contracting.
I am aware of the past shortcomings of
SBA's 8(a) Business Development pro-
gram. This program is intended to chan-
nel noncompetitive procurement con-
tracts to socially and economically dis-
advantaged businesses so as to build them
up to the point where they can compete
on their own in the Federal procurement
process. H.R. 11318 provides statutory
guidelines for eligibility in this program;
it also provides the management and tech-
nical assistance tools needed to develop
these businesses. The regulations imple-
menting this program will be uniform and
governmentwide.
H.R. 11318 will also make it less expen-
sive for minority enterprise small business
investment companies (MESBIC's) to get
capital from SBA, which will help strug-
gling businesses to become successful
enterprises.
By requiring that all Federal procuring
agencies consult with SBA in establishing
realistic goals for small business participa-
tion in Federal contracts, H.R. 11318 will
increase the number of contracts going to
all small businesses. This bill also creates
Offices of Small and Disadvantaged Busi-
ness Utilization in each Federal agency
with procurement powers to further the
cause of small business in the contracting
and subcontracting process. Furthermore,
the administration will take administra-
tive steps to strengthen the subcontract-
ing provisions of the bill even further.
This bill addresses a matter of deep
concern to this administration-making
minority-owned businesses into full and
equal partners in the free enterprise sys-
tem. As a result of racial or ethnic prej-
udice or social bias, too many Americans
have too long been kept from realizing
their full potential in the small business
community. H.R. 11318 goes a long way
in helping small and disadvantaged busi-
nesses grow in our economy. Special
thanks are due to Congressman Joseph
Addabbo, Congressman Parren Mitchell,
and Senator Sam Nunn for their efforts in
drafting this significant legislation.
H.R. 11318 principally benefits ethnic
minorities, although others also face dis-
advantages in their entrepreneurial ef-
forts. More must be done to assist women
business owners into the economic main-
stream. My own Interdepartmental Task
Force on Women Business Owners gave
me its recommendations and findings
early this summer. I have since directed
that a new interagency committee follow
up these recommendations with the co-
operation of all departments and agencies.
1848
