Foreword
The Presidential papers in this volume document our concerns as a nation,
both the transitory and passing, and the deep and lasting questions that will occupy
our attention and affect our lives for generations.
The latter part of 1978 was a time of hope and challenge for the American
people, of the fruition of some important efforts and the frustration of others.
Passage of the first civil service reform in nearly 100 years began the long process
that will eventually make government more effective, efficient, and responsive to
our needs. A major tax cut and airline deregulation helped relieve our people of
excessive burdens of taxation and regulation. The time limit for ratifying the equal
rights amendment was extended, giving new life to our goal of providing full
equality of opportunity for more than half our people.
The final days of the 95th Congress also brought passage of the Nation's
first comprehensive energy package. Although it did not include critical measures
dealing with oil, passage of this legislation signaled a growing recognition in our
country that the complex and difficult problems of ensuring an adequate, afford-
able energy supply must be faced and overcome.
The Camp David accords signed by Prime Minister Begin of Israel and
President Sadat of Egypt revived the age-old dream that nations in the Middle
East could transcend past enmities and learn to live in peace. Although the historic
peace treaty between Egypt and Israel was not signed during the period covered
by this volume, the United States was able to use its influence and good-will in
a dramatic way to keep that dream alive.
It is my hope that these documents will accurately reflect the exciting
moments when long efforts finally bore fruit, as well as the familiar ceremonies
that define the seasons of our national life. All are part of the portrait of a people
seeking to build a more prosperous nation and a more stable world where free
people can fulfill their noblest and simplest aspirations, a world where justice and
mercy prevail.
Jimmy Carter
V
