Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that's a trade-off which is the better way
to go. Improving the submarine forces
and improving the bombing forces are not
without expense
and not without environ-
mental impact also. So, that's simply a
balance which is still in judgment at this
time.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that the
answer to the last question-I think it is
necessary, and we are trying to accom-
plish this in two ways, to avoid that im-
balance that might evolve if the Soviets
ever get a demonstrable advantage over
us. The most efficacious way to handle it
is by stringent SALT agreements.
In the upcoming SALT agreement, we
will have a substantial reduction in the
limits. The reduction will not be a con-
straint on us, because we have not built
at the rate the Soviets have. If the SALT
II agreement goes through as we con-
template it, the Soviets will have to de-
stroy several hundred of their existing
missiles.
And part of the SALT II agreement
which has not been publicized is that it
outlines or reestablishes officially a com-
mitment to proceed without delay on
SALT III. I contemplate a much more
drastic cut in overall missile levels of all
kinds in SALT III than we will be able
to accomplish in SALT II.
As you know, early in 1977 we proposed
a drastic cut to the Soviets. They rejected
it, in retrospect, I think, primarily be-
cause Brezhnev had a great deal of
personal investment in the Vladivostok
agreement, and he thought we ought to
consummate Vladivostok before we
moved on more drastic cuts. And if and
when Brezhnev and I meet at a summit
conference to wrap up the SALT II
up the SALT II
agreement, high on the agenda will be a
SALT III discussion for much more dras-
tic cuts in overall missile levels than
SALT II envisions.
Of course, the other facet of it-and
much less attractive-is, under any given
SALT agreement, no matter what the
levels are for bombers, for cruise missiles,
for sea-launched ICBM-type missiles, or
for silo missiles, or for mobile missiles, to
make sure that we do retain this rough
equivalency, because if the Soviets have,
in the eyes of the world, a demonstrable
advantage, if they feel that with relative
impunity they can attack us, it puts us at
a decided disadvantage in all sorts of po-
litical and economic ways. And we would
lose our beneficial influence throughout
the world for peace and let the Soviets
dominate in the minds of those who are
looking for strength in their partnership.
So, we're trying to agree completely
with you, to cut down on the overall level,
to maintain a rough equivalency. And I
think in SALT III, we'll be much more
successful. My hope is and my tentative
belief is that Brezhnev wants the same
thing I do, a drastic cut in SALT III.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. I recognize
Senator Culver for comment.
SENATOR CULVER. I think, just so per-
haps there's a general agreed understand-
ing of what we are talking about in the
particular context of a mobile missile re-
sponse or a multiple aim point arrange-
ment to a perceived Soviet threat, is the
situation where the Soviet heavy missiles,
as they continually are MIRVed with
more warheads and as the accuracy in-
creases as a rate that we anticipate, it is
theoretically possible that sometime in the
mid-1980 time frame, 1985, that some
Soviet leader could contemplate a first
strike on United States land-based missile
sites, where we have now some 1,054. This
scenario would conceive of a Soviet polit-
ical leader making the decision in 1985 to
initiate a surprise attack, assumedly with-
out warning, against those United States
land-based missiles system sites and silos.
2202
