Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
REVELATION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION;
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, we are currently
prosecuting a former CIA warrant officer
for allegedly selling a manual on one of
our spy satellites to the Soviets. Can you
tell us whether or not the Soviets having
that manual has in any way compromised
U.S. security, and whether or not it has
affected our SALT negotiations because it
might make it more difficult for us to
verify their strategic weapons systems?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not want to
comment on that particular case. When-
ever the Soviets discover any information
about our classified material, it's obviously
potentially damaging to our country. It
has not affected our SALT negotiations. I
stated publicly, I think for the first time
a President has done so, down at Cape
Kennedy, Cape Canaveral, two or three
Sundays ago, that we did have aerial sur-
veillance. And I think that it's important
for the American people to know that in
the past and present and in the future,
that our aerial surveillance capability
would be adequate to affirm that the
agreement on SALT, those in existence
and those in the future, would be ade-
quate.
So, the revelation of any secret informa-
tion or classified information is something
to be avoided. It has not affected the
SALT talks. Our ability to verify compli-
ance will be adequate in the future.
VASCHENKO FAMILY
Q. Mr. President, a family of Russian
Pentecostals, the Vaschenkos, are seeking
asylum and are lodged in the U.S. Em-
bassy in Moscow. They said in letters that
have been smuggled out that the embassy
is bringing subtle, emotional pressure to
expel them into the hands of the Russians,
probably at great risk. Did you direct the
embassy to seek their ouster, or are you
willing to give them asylum and visas?
THE PRESIDENT. They are Russian cit-
izens, as you know, and have been in the
embassy in the Soviet Union, in Moscow,
the American Embassy, for months. We
have provided them a place to stay. We
provided them a room to live in, even
though this is not a residence with normal
quarters for them. I would presume that
they have no reason to smuggle out cor-
respondence to this country since they
have the embassy officials' ability to trans-
mit messages. I have not directed the em-
bassy to discharge them from the embassy,
no.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, the current underly-
ing inflation rate is between 7 and 8 per-
cent. Under your new anti-inflation
program to be revealed soon, could we ex-
pect that rate to drop very much next
year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would hope so.
I've been working on the anti-inflation
package for a number of weeks, as you
know, as you may know. I think that when
the Congress completes its work, then I'll
be able to put the final touches on the
anti-inflation program and reveal it to the
public and pursue it aggressively.
My best effort at this moment in deal-
ing with inflation is to be involved in the
passage or the modification of laws during
these last few days of the congressional
session. And this is what I've been trying
to do, sometimes with private meetings
with conference committees, sometimes
with individual Members of Congress, on
a rare occasion with a veto of a bill that
I found to be unacceptable.
But I would hope and I believe that the
anti-inflation proposals that I make, along
with a tight constraint on budget spend-
ing by the Congress and myself, would be
1748
