Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
or controlled by the Government of the
United States to be national monuments,
and to reserve as part thereof parcels of
land, the limits of which in all cases shall
be confined to the smallest area compat-
ible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by Sec-
tion 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved
for inclusion in the Glacier Bay National
Monument all lands, including sub-
merged lands, and waters owned or con-
trolled by the United States within the
boundaries of the area depicted as the
Enlargement of Glacier Bay National
Monument on the map numbered
GLBA-90,005 attached to and forming a
part of this Proclamation. The area re-
served consists of approximately 550,000
acres, and is necessary to ensure the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects the monument was established to
preserve and those added by this Procla-
mation. Lands, including submerged
lands, and waters within these boundaries
not owned by the United States shall be
reserved as a part of the monument upon
acquisition of title thereto by the United
States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this addition are hereby appropriated and
withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
tion, sale or other disposition, other than
exchange. There is also reserved all water
necessary to the proper care and manage-
ment of those objects protected by this
monument and for the proper adminis-
tration of the monument in accordance
with applicable laws.
The establishment of this addition is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section 17
(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act, (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Furthermore,
nothing in this Proclamation is intended
to modify or revoke the terms of the
Memorandum of Understanding dated
September 1, 1972, entered into between
the State of Alaska and the United States
as part of the negotiated settlement of
Alaska v. Morton, Civil No. A–48–72 (D.
Alaska, Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
by local residents. The Secretary may close
this addition, or any portion thereof, to
subsistence uses of a particular fish, wild-
life or plant population if necessary for
reasons of public safety, administration,
or to ensure the natural stability or con-
tinued viability of such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
2126
