Dec. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
constantly, and we would have to reassess
them as they do occur. But I don't have
any doubt that we made the right deci-
sion. We have made our intentions and
our expectations clear to the people of
China and to Taiwan.
My reports from Taiwan, in the last
day or few hours, has been that they
studied the agreements with the People's
Republic, that their original concerns
have been substantially alleviated, and I
don't think that the people of Taiwan are
any more concerned about future peace
than they were before. In addition, we will
maintain trade relationships, cultural
relationships with the people of Taiwan,
as has been the case in the past.
SOVIET REACTION TO ANNOUNCEMENT
MR. CRONKITE. Have you had any re-
cent conversations with any Soviet officials
or have you heard from Moscow as to
what their reaction is in the last few
hours, bringing us up to date?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I've had a per-
sonal message delivered to me this after-
noon from President Brezhnev expressing
his understanding that our commitment is
to peace in the entire world, acknowl-
edging the fact that the American position
is that our new relationship with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China will contribute to
world peace, and acknowledging the fact
that the proper relationship between
major sovereign nations is to have full
diplomatic relations.
So, I would characterize his personal
message to me as being very positive in
tone. And I can say without any doubt
that our new relationship with China will
not put any additional obstacles in the
way of a successful SALT agreement and
also will not endanger our good relation-
ships with the Soviet Union.
VISITS BY CHINESE AND SOVIET LEADERS
MR. CRONKITE. What about the slight
protocol problem of timing visits from
Teng Hsiao-p'ing, the Vice Chairman,
who's due here from Peking on January
29, and a possible visit from Chairman
Chairman Brezhnev come after Teng has
Brezhnev to sign a SALT agreement? Can
been here?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't set the sched-
ule for him. My hope is that President
Brezhnev would come before Mr. Teng
comes to Washington.
As you know, Secretary Vance will be
meeting with Foreign Minister Gromyko
day after tomorrow, the 21st, and at that
time we'll see if the SALT agreements are
coming to a successful conclusion. If so,
we will extend immediately again an invi-
tation to President Brezhnev to come here
during the middle part of January.
The two visits would, obviously, not
overlap or conflict, and I think I'll be well
prepared, in studying the prospective
agenda, to meet with both of them in the
same month.
MR. CRONKITE. What about return
visits from you, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have not
made any plans for that. And I would
presume that both leaders might invite
me to come to their countries sometime
in the future. And I would look with
favor on those invitations, but not any-
time soon.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
MR. CRONKITE. Do you feel that this
agreement with China puts any pressure
on the Soviet Union to come to any early
conclusion with the SALT talks?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I really can't
assess any interrelationship between the
two. The agreement with China was not
2276
