Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that. And I don't think there's ever going
to be enough money. I don't think gov-
ernment can solve all the problems.
So, I'm going to be working, encourag-
ing people in their own communities to
assume responsibilities for the problems
around them. And I think particularly,
now with inflation, that it's going to be
important, more important than ever
before.
THE PRESIDENT. Barbara, let me say
that Rosalynn's somewhat modest and,
maybe, properly so because of the pro-
prieties involved. But I don't hesitate to
discuss with her every major decision that
I have to make, unless it involves a vital
and top secret security point, which I do
not share with anyone.
But we had a special need to strengthen
our ties, for instance, with Latin America.
And Rosalynn went on a full diplomatic
mission representing me personally and
also representing the Nation. She was re-
ceived hesitantly by some of the seven or
eight leaders, but I think at the conclusion
of those meetings, they now rely on her
substantially to be sure that I understand
the sensitivities of the people.
grams involving the elderly or mental
health, she's a very effective spokesman,
and I think the point she's just made has
been a good reminder to me. When I was
totally preoccupied with the Federal Gov-
ernment programs to deal with cities and
to deal with other problems, Rosalynn
continued to emphasize and finally con-
vinced me that the best approach was to
involve not only the mayors and the Gov-
ernors but also just private citizens in
dealing with community problems them-
selves. And she spends a lot of time on
that and very effectively.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Ms. WALTERS. I have one last question
on the economy I'd like to ask, and you
could almost take a yes and no. You've
repeatedly stated your dislike of manda-
tory wage and price controls. But if Con-
gress sends you legislation granting au-
thority to impose such conditions, as they
did with President Nixon in 1970, would
you veto such legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. That would be an in-
conceivable prospect for me that the
Ms. WALTERS. Still-you think they Congress would submit to me legislation
still do?
MRS. CARTER. They do.
THE PRESIDENT. They do. There's no
doubt about that. And also when I'm con-
fined to Washington because of pressing
duties and she goes out within the United
States, she has a much easier relationship
with people and can bring back to me an
accurate assessment of what the hopes and
dreams and fears and concerns of Amer-
ican people are than I could get from any
other possible source. So, she is a full part-
ner in that respect.
MS. WALTERS. Did she ever change
your mind? Can you think of something
where she disagreed and you switched?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think a change
in emphasis, sometimes in domestic pro-
that I opposed for wage and price con-
trols. If it was a stand-by proposal that
could only be used in case of a threat to
our Nation's security itself, then I would
consider signing it. But I have no desire
for that kind of stand-by authority.
Ms. WALTERS. We'll be back in just a
word. Thank you.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, may we
turn our attention to foreign policy and
start with the Middle East, which con-
tinues to be a situation that is unsettled.
It does not look now as if the December
17th deadline is going to be met for the
2252
