Sept. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
it and, overall, the economic picture
bodes well for American citizens.
Our free market system continues to
provide broad social and economic pro-
tections while maintaining respect for in-
dividual dignity and freedom of choice in
the work place, as well as in the market
place. Our Nation offers a working en-
vironment in which we can take pride,
and the opportunity for skilled craftsmen
to take pleasure in their continuing
achievements.
Working Americans have good cause to
celebrate this Labor Day. In the last 12
months, more jobs have been added to the
economy than in any year in history. Al-
most a quarter of those who were unem-
ployed when I took office are productively
employed today. We have worked hard
on this problem and the results are grat-
ifying: we have brought unemployment
down to the lowest level in three years, and
we have done it in a peaceful, growing
economy, without war or recession.
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
August 30
The President returned to the White
House following his vacation in Georgia,
Idaho, and Wyoming.
August 31
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
The President attended a portion of
the briefing on natural gas legislation
given by administration officials for repre-
sentatives of natural gas consuming busi-
nesses and industries in the State Dining
Room.
The White House announced that
Sarah C. Weddington will join the White
House staff as Special Assistant to the
President. She will serve as a senior ad-
viser to the President and will have the
lead responsibility among his advisers for
women's affairs and issues.
Working Americans can also take pride
in the continuing effectiveness of our
strong, free labor organizations. We have September 1
a vocal, articulate work force in this Na-
tion, and an ever-better standard of living
for an ever-rising percentage of our
people.
We still have problems; we still have
much to do. But it is good to pause and
count our blessings too. We have a great
deal to be thankful for on this Labor Day.
JIMMY CARTER
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
The President met at the White House
with:
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown,
Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the
President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-representatives of farm organiza-
tions to discuss the natural gas legis-
lation;
-Secretary of Transportation Brock
Adams.
During the day, the President met with
various foreign policy advisers to prepare
for the Camp David meeting on the Mid-
dle East, to begin September 5.
1484
