Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ments here have made possible innova-
tions in such areas as crash techniques,
rescue techniques, fire safety, airway—
runway designs, lighting systems, struc-
tural stress; also weight turbulence, radar,
and many others of a similar benefit to
American people. These innovations for
which the Nation thanks you must
continue.
The financing of this Phase II of
NAFEC's expansion has been extremely
innovative, and, of course, it's compli-
cated. But I think we all realize now the
value of this lease-back arrangement. Be-
cause of it, we are saving the taxpayers
$72 million.
This is a good day today, but 21 months
from now, when the new technical and
administrative complex is completed, all
of you will more fully realize just exactly
what
your great efforts have yielded, both
for this area and also for our country.
But even today it's clear that when
committed and dedicated and competent
people work together on a good project,
when they refuse to give up hope even
under the most difficult and discourag-
ing circumstances, when they keep push-
ing forward for what they know is right,
they cannot lose. This groundbreaking is
living proof that what I've just said is
true.
I thank you very much for what you've
done for yourselves, your neighbors, your
State, and your country.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:16 a.m.
Atlantic City, New Jersey
Remarks at the United Steelworkers of
America Convention. September 20, 1978
President McBride, Senator Williams,
Senator Case, Governor Byrne, delegates
of the United Steelworkers of America,
and my other friends:
It's an honor to be introduced by one of
the most outstanding leaders in America
today, your president, Lloyd McBride.
And it's also a pleasure to meet with and
to talk to one of the finest groups of work-
ing men and women that I know, the
United Steelworkers of America.
You may not know it, but you had a
great deal to do with the success of the
Camp David meeting. Knowing that I
had to be here with you to speak today,
was able to bring to a conclusion those
difficult negotiations. Late Saturday night,
Prime Minister Begin finally came to me,
and he said, "Mr. President, I agree to get
out of the Sinai if you'll let me out of
Camp David." [Laughter]
So, I'm here to point out to you that we
are partners, we are brothers and sisters
in a great effort to make our country and
the world better.
And I'm also here to reaffirm my soli-
darity with the working people of our Na-
tion in pursuing the goals that we share.
There is no clearer expression of my com-
mitment to this solidarity with working
people than my appointment of Ray Mar-
shall as Secretary of Labor. He's my
friend and he's yours.
You who have gathered here in conven-
tion represent one of America's greatest
national assets. I'm not talking about the
size of your great organization alone, nor
even about the enormous gains that steel-
workers have realized from this union in
the last 42 years. I'm talking about the
broader, social vision of this international
union and of the American labor move-
ment.
You have been part of the conscience
of America. Conscience is what motivated
Phil Murray to organize this union in the
beginning. Conscience is what motivated
one of the most decent and honorable men
1544
