Aug. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, he's a great person and a good,
close friend of mine. I say that with a
little bit of caution, because I don't want
to exaggerate the number of close friends
I have. He's one of them. I had lunch
with him yesterday. I think that if you
would analyze the Members of the Senate
and who supported us on controversial is-
sues when my administration had a clear
preference, that he would be at the top.
I don't know of another Senator among
the hundred who has a higher record
of support for my programs. And I appre-
ciate this very much.
There are some times when we differ,
but it's a difference with a mutual degree
of respect. So, if he should decide to run,
I would certainly not let that influence my
decision as to whether or not I would run.
But my belief is that he will not.
ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Q. The Energy Department and EPA
appear to be at rather sharp odds on pro-
tecting air and water quality, while in-
creasing coal production. How much en-
vironmental quality is the administration
willing to sacrifice to meet your stated
energy goals?
THE PRESIDENT. Very little. We as-
sessed very carefully the degree of air
pollution and water pollution that would
result from our energy package in its
totality. And we're very cautious not to
expect any sort of coal used to cause a
deterioration in the quality of our en-
vironment.
We are insistent that coal, when burned,
be burned as cleanly as possible. There's
a specific legal limit on how much air
pollution can be accommodated in indus-
trial centers, and until a point source of
pollution is retired, a new one cannot be
instituted.
I think the coal industry is very eager
to see this done, as well. The techniques
are being improved as time goes on. And
I don't think there's any difference in
opinion between the Department of
Energy and the EPA. Obviously, there are
some times when they disagree, but I, if
necessary, resolve those differences.
We have a need to shift strongly toward
increased use of coal. One of the results
of the recent coal workers contract that
has not been adequately assessed is the
stability that it is bringing to the coal in-
dustry, that the number of wildcat strikes
are going down. I think people who would
be inclined to use coal now see much more
clearly that their supply in the future
would be more assured than was the case
before the contract was negotiated.
So, I think with a complete commit-
ment on the part of this administration
and the Congress to maintain the quality
of our environment, with technology being
exerted to a maximum degree to make
coal burning even more efficient and
cleaner, and with more assured supplies
of regular deliveries of coal because of
better contracts and, obviously, better en-
gineering techniques, I believe all these
factors will increase the use of coal in the
future. We hope to have a billion tons a
year used, I think, by 1985, which is about
a 40- or 50-percent increase.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, do you feel that un-
der our system it's almost inevitable, or
perhaps even mandatory, that an effec-
tive President have strong clashes with
Congress and its dominant personalities?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would think so.
There is an historical delineation of re-
sponsibility and perspective. The average
Member of Congress has a very narrowly
focused, parochial interest—not just geo-
graphical; certainly each one is interested
in his or her own district-but Congress
leaders tend to specialize after a period
1414
