Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 11
Obviously, controlling inflation is an-
other very major step forward that we can
take to strengthen the dollar. We have
done other things as well. We're trying to
increase our exports to reduce our balance
of trade deficit. We have sold additional
amounts of gold, which is predictable
policy now, and I think this helps to
strengthen the dollar.
And one of the most important things
that is occurring outside of our control,
but modified in a beneficial way at Bonn,
was to strengthen the economies of our
major trading partners, notably Japan
and Germany. As their economies are
stronger, they can buy goods more from
other countries, including ourselves.
So, I think all these factors combined
would lower our trade deficit and lead to
a stronger dollar.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The President. Thank you, Frank.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-eighth news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Legal Services Corporation
Nomination of Six Members of the Board of
Directors. October 11, 1978
The President today announced six
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
Legal Services Corporation for terms ex-
piring July 13, 1981. They are:
MICHAEL KANTOR, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.,
an attorney, former executive director of
Action for Legal Rights, and former con-
sultant to the National Legal Aid and De-
fender Association;
ROBERT J. KUTAK, an Omaha, Nebr., attorney
and currently a member of this Board;
F. WILLIAM MCCALPIN, an attorney in St.
Louis, Mo., and director and president of the
Missouri Legal Aid Society;
REVIUS O. ORTIQUE, JR., a New Orleans at-
torney, currently a member of this Board,
and a member of the executive committee of
the National Legal Aid and Defender As-
sociation;
HOWARD R. SACKS, a professor and former
dean at the University of Connecticut
School of Law and executive director of the
National Council of Legal Clinics;
RAMONA TOLEDO SHUMP, of Topeka, Kans., an
interviewer for the department of human
resources, Topeka WIN program (a job
placement service for Aid to Dependent
Children), active in community affairs.
Department of Commerce
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Sidney L. Harman as Under Secretary.
October 11, 1978
To Sidney Harman
I accept your resignation as Under Sec-
retary of Commerce with genuine regret.
You have made significant contribu-
tions during the early years of the Admin-
istration, especially in the areas of Quality
of Working Life and Minority Economic
Development.
Your design and execution of the pro-
gram to revitalize the domestic shoe indus-
try has been a significant achievement.
I wish you the best of times in your
tinuing life and work.
Sincerely,
Dear Mr. President:
your con-
JIMMY CARTER
Please accept my resignation as Under
Secretary of Commerce effective Decem-
ber 1, 1978.
I have appreciated the opportunity to
serve you and your Administration and
I thank you for the confidence and re-
1753
