Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
were weak, poor, black, who couldn't
speak English very well or who were old.
It's a great honor for me to be on the
same stage as Claude Pepper. And I know
you're going to give him one of the
greatest margins of victory of any congres-
sional candidate in the United States. He
deserves it.
I also want to recognize Bill Lehman,
who, along with Claude Pepper, is one of
the greatest friends that Israel has. He
serves on the Budget Committee. He
helped me get civil service reform. He's a
loyal, dedicated man who is so well liked
that he doesn't even have any opposition
on November 7. And he's going to help all
the other Democratic candidates, Bill
Lehman. Thank you, Bill.
There are many of you here who have a
great interest in Latin America, in foreign
affairs, in peace and defense. And you've
got a strong supporter and a strong fighter
for the things in which you believe in
Dante Fascell, who's one of the great con-
gressional leaders in international affairs
and who also takes care of his own district.
Well, you can see that we have in the
Democratic Party a good team. I've been
President now for less than 2 years, but I
believe that we've done what you want
your Government to do in many aspects
of life in Washington. Do you want a gov-
ernment of which you can be proud, that
fights for human rights throughout the
world? [Applause] That's what we've
tried to bring in Washington through our
Nation's foreign policy.
There have been times in the past when
we could not be proud of everything our
President did or everything our Nation's
Government stood for. But I think it's ac-
curate to say now that throughout the
world, we have raised high a banner of
which we can be proud; a nation that in
its domestic affairs and foreign policy is
clean and decent and represents the ideals
and commitments and principles on
which our Nation was founded 200 years
ago.
Do you want a government whose offi-
cials are honest and who are free of em-
barrassment and corruption? Do you?
[Applause] That's what we're trying to
bring to Washington.
This morning before I left the White
House I signed a bill called the Ethics Bill
of 1978. It requires that in the future,
Presidents, Vice Presidents, Cabinet
members, all top civil servants, all the
Members of Congress, all the top mem-
bers of the judiciary, all our judges, have
to account for their net worth, their in-
comes, make sure that the public has
available to them an assessment of
whether or not that candidate or that
public official is honest.
We've been fighting to get this legisla-
tion now in our country for over 20 years.
It has not been possible until this morn-
ing. And from now on, your public offi-
cials will have to account to you, and it
will not only make them honest, but it will
keep them honest. And they'll have to
prove it.
Let me ask you another question. Do
you want a government that's able to put
American people back to work? [Ap-
plause] Right on. I knew you'd say yes.
When I took over as President 21
months ago, we had 10 million Americans
who could not find a full-time job. We
had 7 million Americans who couldn't
find a job of any kind. The unemployment
rate was 8 percent. In the last 20 months,
we have brought the unemployment rate
down 25 percent. And we have also
added, in doing so, over 6 million more
jobs than we had when I was inaugurated
President.
The Congress deserves a lot of credit
for this, because they've emphasized not
1866
