Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 7
that no human being who has ever served
in the Congress of the United States
touched more people in a beneficial way
than Jennings Randolph. And I don't be-
lieve you could pay a higher compliment
to a man than that.
I'd also like to say a word, if you have no
objection, about Harley Staggers. Not
many districts can claim a more effective
and hard-working Congressman. He's
He's
keeping our transportation system strong.
And I think that many who know and de-
pend upon a sound railroad system realize
that every now and then, you hear about
a Staggers amendment for transporta-
tion, a Staggers amendment for better
health, a Staggers amendment for better
energy programs, and he's the author of
those great changes that the Congress
adopts.
He's improved our railroad system more
than any other person in the Congress.
He's been a key man in the energy pro-
gram. This year, it's no accident that when
the Speaker appointed a committee to
evolve our national energy policy—this
was last year-that one of the chairmen
there-there were three men who did the
work-Harley Staggers was in the leader-
ship role. He's made sure that we have a
future for synthetic fuels, that we use coal
to the best advantage, and that we locate
these new and exciting plants where you
all know the coal is, in West Virginia. And
I think our new energy policy is going
to depend on you much more than it has
in the past because of him. Well, he's been
a great credit to you and a great help to
me.
I think you can count on me to continue
to work with these men and others to see
that the Federal Government serves your
needs-determined by the people here, not
in Washington. Too often in the past,
Washington simply wrote checks for proj-
ects they decided over there in some ob-
scure bureaucracy that people like you
needed. Too often, regulations which were
written in Washington prevented the
American people from doing a good job
and prevented government from being
effective. We're trying to do something
about those programs.
This past week, my White House staff
met with Jay Rockefeller, local officials
from around your State, to decide what
Federal, State, and local people could do
together for West Virginia. We let you
make the decisions. They looked at dozens
of programs. Most of them identified small
problems that had been an obstacle-ap-
plications sit around too long, regulations
are too complicated. And they evolved,
before they left Charleston this week, over
$200 million worth of projects for housing,
economic development, more jobs. Here in
your State, these meetings help you to help
yourselves. The first Federal grant will be
$4.7 million to the State of West Virginia,
to be used as a revolving loan to help keep
20,000 threatened jobs.
The first use of this fund will be not too
far from here, in Morgantown, by keep-
ing safe 800 jobs in that city's largest fac-
tory. The second grant will be $14 million,
matched by $67 million in local funds and
other sources, to help build and to reno-
vate the downtown shopping area and
the civic center of Charleston. It comple-
ments and adds on to a $5 million EDA
grant that I announced the last time I was
in your State.
This is the kind of initiative that the
Federal Government is carrying out to not
only let you solve your problems, let you
have a better life, but which prevents the
deterioration of the downtown urban
centers that quite often has been caused
in the past.
Well, I won't go on and on naming
things that we are trying to do, but I
would like to say that we are trying to do
1731
