Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nation even greater in the future. That's
my prayer.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:43 p.m. at
the Stevens Avenue Armory. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Harold Pachios, State
Democratic Party chairman, and John C.
White, Democratic National Committee
chairman.
tection for women. I congratulate Con-
gresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman for her
sponsorship of this legislation and her
leadership in this area.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4727 is Public Law
95-540, approved October 28.
Protection for the Privacy of
Rape Victims
Statement on Signing H.R. 4727 Into Law.
October 30, 1978
I am pleased to sign H.R. 4727, an
important change in the rules of evidence
to protect the rights of victims of rape.
This bill provides a model for State
and local revision of criminal and case
law. It is designed to end the public deg-
radation of rape victims and, by protect-
ing victims from humiliation, to encour-
age the reporting of rape.
There is no question that victims of
rape and other sex crimes, predominately
women, are reluctant to report these
crimes. Too often rape trials have been as
humiliating as the sexual assault itself. By
Great Bear and Bob Marshall
Wildernesses in Montana
Statement on Signing H.R. 13972 Into Law.
October 30, 1978
I am very pleased to sign H.R. 13972,
which designates the Great Bear Wilder-
ness and enlarges the Bob Marshall
Wilderness in the State of Montana.
This act adds 345,771 acres of some of
Montana's most rugged and beautiful
backcountry to the National Wilderness
Preservation System. The area is com-
prised of mountainous terrain with out-
standing scenic, watershed, wildlife, and
primitive recreation values. It forms a
critical ecological link between Glacier
National Park and the Bob Marshall
Wilderness and protects a large segment
of the Flathead River.
Establishment of the Great Bear
Wilderness is the product of years of work
restricting testimony on the victim's prior by a tireless and dedicated conservation-
sexual behavior to that genuinely rele-
vant to the defense, the rape victims act
will prevent a defendant from making
the victim's private life the issue in the
trial.
The thousands of women who met last
year in Houston for International Wom-
en's Year urged Federal, State, and local
governments to provide this basic protec-
tion for rape victims. I am pleased that
the Federal Government is serving as a
model in this regard, and I urge all crim-
inal jurisdictions to follow the Federal
example in providing this essential pro-
ist, the late Senator Lee Metcalf of Mon-
tana. He introduced the legislation lead-
ing to the wilderness study of the area.
And now, thanks to the effort of his wife,
Donna Metcalf, and his colleagues in the
Senate and House of Representatives,
another of the Nation's most beautiful
pristine areas will receive appropriate
protection and recognition as part of the
National Wilderness Preservation System.
I am proud to honor Senator Metcalf's
memory in signing this important bill.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13972 is Public Law
95-546, approved October 28.
1902
