Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 29
think is going to be realized. We've got an
underlying inflation rate of 6.5 to 7 per-
cent, something like that. And it's exacer-
bated by aberrations which ordinarily are
on the bad side.
The two most important factors so far
this year that's given us such a high rate
of inflation, measured on an annual basis,
is, first of all, interest rates. That's the
most dominant factor of all, because the
interest rates on short-term loans are a
part of the Consumer Price Index, and,
as you know, that's self-perpetuating.
When interest rates are high, the Consum-
er Price Index goes up. Many wage set-
tlements and agreements are predicated
upon what the CPI is. Retirement bene-
fits, even Government wages are in part
tied to that. That's one factor.
Another one is the very rapid increase
in farm prices. One reason for that is
that the farm prices were extremely low
last year. September farm prices kind of
bottomed out. The 1977 farm act, which
went into effect the first of October, gives
a substantial stimulation to the income
level of farmers. I would say that farm
income will go up this year 25 percent,
probably $52 to $6 billion. Part of that
is absorbed by increased exports, but part
of it, of course, shows up in an increased
price.
I think that if we can level off or top
out the inflation rate the latter part of
this year, that we will have accomplished
a great deal. And then the reduction of
the inflation rate will be a very slow, very
tedious, very doubtful process.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, you've mentioned
this many times, but would you comment
again on under what conditions, short of
war, if any, would wage and price con-
trols be imposed? And if so, what would
be the probabilities of that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any ex-
pectation of imposing mandatory wage
and price controls. I said this during the
campaign often; I said it after I was
elected; I've said it several times since.
Only if I thought the security of our Na-
tion was endangered would I impose
wage and price controls. And I have been
through that process in the past, as have
all of you. And my judgment is that even
under the most severe national circum-
stances, that wage and price controls
didn't work.
There was a time, for instance, during
the Second World War, when our Nation
was straining to have maximum produc-
tivity, say, in the manufacture of tanks
and trucks and airplanes and so forth,
and there was a severe shortage of civil-
ian goods made by the same type of
worker and using the same type of equip-
ment and manufacturing capability. And
if we had not had price controls on those
competitive goods then, the prices would
have skyrocketed. But even then there
were some restraints on it. We didn't have
wage controls. I think there was a pretty
good patriotic attitude toward most
workers, at least until toward the end of
the war when we did have a series of
strikes break out.
But I can't imagine any necessity for
wage and price controls, unless the secu-
rity of our country was actually in danger,
and that would be a judgment that I'd
have to make.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, do you see any way
of harnessing Proposition 13 sentiment to
the point where it helps your voluntary
guidelines in restraining wage increases?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't see the direct
relationship there. I do believe that Prop-
osition 13 is an accurate expression of,
first of all, the distrust of government. I'd
like to restore that trust.
1353
