Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 11
covering 80 percent of all imports from
low-cost suppliers. And we are negotiating
more.
-We have improved our monitoring
of imports and implementation of re-
straints, through steps such as the new
legislative initiatives I have approved.
-We have, despite the proposed small
reduction in tariffs, the highest textile and
apparel tariffs in the developed world.
-We have begun discussions with ex-
porting countries not now under restraint
to seek appropriate levels for their ship-
ments.
-We have established a pilot program
to improve productivity in the men's tai-
lored clothing industry, and we have be-
gun an export promotion program for the
entire textile and apparel complex.
-And we have begun a review of ex-
isting and proposed Federal regulations
affecting this industry to assess their
impact.
This, however, is not enough. I pledge
that we will do more:
-We will intensify our review of ex-
isting bilateral restraint agreements to be
sure they really work, and if there are
harmful surges we will work promptly to
remedy them.
-We will not allow the effectiveness
of our restraint agreements to be under-
mined by significant increases in ship-
ments from uncontrolled suppliers, and
we will maintain a world-wide evaluation
of the imports of textile and apparel into
the U.S. and seek appropriate action,
country-by-country, where warranted.
-We will be prepared to expand the
pilot project underway in the men's tai-
lored clothing industry so that other sec-
tors may benefit from that experience,
and we will speed proposals for a similar
program in the ladies apparel industry.
-We will negotiate strenuously for re-
moval of non-tariff barriers to U.S. textile
and apparel exports, including restrictive
"rules of origin.”
-The Office of the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations will begin a
new policy review and report to me quar-
terly on developments in the domestic tex-
tile and apparel industry, with special em-
phasis on imports and exports, so that ap-
propriate actions can be taken more
promptly.
These steps, like those of the past year,
will not be the limit of our assistance to
this vital industry. But each step that we
take must be directed toward the long-
term health of this industry and the
United States economy as a whole-unlike
H.R. 9937 which on balance is detrimen-
tal to the textile industry, to its two mil-
lion workers, and to the Nation as a whole.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 10, 1978.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of disap-
proval was released on November 11.
Veto of Meat Import Bill
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 11545.
November 10, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I have withheld my approval of H.R.
11545, the Meat Import Act of 1978.
I do so because the bill would severely
restrict Presidential authority to increase
meat imports and would place a floor or
minimum access level for meat imports
that I believe is too low. It deprives a
President of the only anti-inflationary
tool available in this area.
Current law allows the President sub-
stantial flexibility to increase meat im-
ports when, in his judgment, domestic
supplies are inadequate to meet demand
at reasonable prices. I am convinced that
this flexibility must be preserved as a
weapon against inflation.
2009
