Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the final status of these areas will then be
submitted to a vote by the representatives
of the inhabitants of the West Bank and
Gaza, and they will have the right for the
first time in their history, the Palestinian
people, to decide how they will govern
themselves permanently.
We also believe, of course, all of us,
that there should be a just settlement of
the problems of displaced persons and
refugees, which takes into account ap-
propriate United Nations resolutions.
Finally, this document also outlines a
variety of security arrangements to rein-
force peace between Israel and her neigh-
bors. This is, indeed, a comprehensive and
fair framework for peace in the Middle
East, and I'm glad to report this to you.
The second agreement is entitled, “A
Framework for the Conclusion of a Peace
Treaty Between Egypt and Israel." It re-
turns to Egypt its full exercise of sover-
eignty over the Sinai Peninsula and estab-
lishes several security zones, recognizing
carefully that sovereignty right for the
protection of all parties. It also provides
that Egypt will extend full diplomatic
recognition to Israel at the time the
Israelis complete an interim withdrawal
from most of the Sinai, which will take
place between 3 months and 9 months
after the conclusion of the peace treaty.
And the peace treaty is to be fully nego-
tiated and signed no later than 3 months
from last night.
I think I should also report that Prime
Minister Begin and President Sadat have
already challenged each other to conclude
the treaty even earlier. And I hope
they [applause]. This final conclusion
of a peace treaty will be completed late in
December, and it would be a wonderful
Christmas present for the world.
Final and complete withdrawal of all
Israeli forces will take place between 2
and 3 years following the conclusion of
the peace treaty.
While both parties are in total agree-
ment on all the goals that I have just
described to you, there is one issue on
which agreement has not yet been
reached. Egypt states that agreement to
remove the Israeli settlements from Egyp-
tian territory is a prerequisite to a peace
treaty. Israel says that the issue of the
Israeli settlements should be resolved dur-
ing the peace negotiations themselves.
Now, within 2 weeks, with each mem-
ber of the Knesset or the Israeli Parlia-
ment acting as individuals, not con-
strained by party loyalty, the Knesset will
decide on the issue of the settlements. Our
own Government's position, my own per-
sonal position is well known on this is-
sue and has been consistent. It is my
strong hope, my prayer, that the question
of Israeli settlements on Egyptian terri-
tory will not be the final obstacle to
peace.
None of us should underestimate the
historic importance of what has already
been done. This is the first time that an
Arab and an Israeli leader have signed a
comprehensive framework for peace. It
contains the seeds of a time when the
Middle East, with all its vast potential,
may be a land of human richness and
fulfillment, rather than a land of bitterness
and continued conflict. No region in the
world has greater natural and human re-
sources than this one, and nowhere have
they been more heavily weighed down by
intense hatred and frequent war. These
agreements hold out the real possibility
that this burden might finally be lifted.
But we must also not forget the magni-
tude of the obstacles that still remain. The
summit exceeded our highest expectations,
but we know that it left many difficult is-
sues which are still to be resolved. These
1536
