Nov. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
whatever it might be, is to prove to those
nations that there will be a stable dollar-
because they get paid in dollars for oil;
that our own leadership, mine in this
country and ours throughout the world,
will be to stabilize the value of all cur-
rencies, that is, to hold down inflation;
and also that we are shifting as strongly
as possible away from an overdependence
on imported oil, which means that a lim-
ited supply will meet the needs of those
who cannot go to other sources of oil, gas,
coal, alternate energy sources.
But I think that in the past 2 years,
certainly since I've been in office, the
OPEC leaders-Saudi Arabia, Iran, and
others have been very responsible. Most
of their foreign holdings are tied to either
property or bonds, where inflation hurts
them substantially with their net mone-
tary resources.
And we'll do all we can, in addition to
what I've already done, to hold down in-
flation and to stabilize the value of the
dollar. And we'll convince them that any
unwarranted increase in OPEC prices
would have a destabilizing effect on in-
flation, not only in our country but
throughout the world.
FARM SET-ASIDE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, a lot of farmers in
Iowa, where I'm from, and I think else-
where were disappointed that you waited
as long as you did to announce the feed
grain program and were disappointed in
its contents. Could you tell us whether
you waited specifically until the election
was over to make that announcement,
and why you decided against a somewhat
more generous program that would have
had larger set-asides and higher pay-
ments?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't wait until
after the election. The normal time for
me to make that announcement was No-
vember 15.
Q. I understood that to be the dead-
line, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it was. But last
year, I think you know, we made the
announcement after Christmas.
There was a need for us to get the No-
vember figures on crop production and
grain supplies on hand, which came in
the day before I made the announcement,
which was last week. And those results
did influence my decision. I waited until
then. Mr. Hjort ยน came over to meet with
me and my advisers, and we set the stand-
ards.
I think that what we established as
feed grain regulations and the price level
is the best one that I can devise. But there
is no way to satisfy the needs of everyone
or the desires of everyone or the demands
of every interest group, even from us farm-
ers, and I am a farmer familiar with the
needs.
We do have a very high level of feed
grains on hand, but we are trying as hard
as we can to increase our exports and to
have stabilized prices. And as I'd like to
remind you, farm net income has gone up
25 percent. We will probably export $27
billion in farm supplies this year to other
countries. I think we've made very good
success in the roughly 1 year that we've
had a new agricultural program at hand.
I don't have anything about which to
apologize on the feed grain program it-
self nor the date that it was issued. I think
it's been issued in adequate time to plan
for next spring's planting, which will
come probably no earlier in any part of
the country than early March. So, the
1 Howard W. Hjort, Director, Economics,
Policy Analysis and Budget, Department of
Agriculture.
2064
