Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
reacted. I think they are dependable and
responsible, and they've represented our
family well. They've represented the coun-
try well when they've traveled abroad.
And I think things that happen to them,
I think they try to lead as normal a life as
anybody else.
THE PRESIDENT. We still pray that their
marriage will be saved. And they've asked
that it not be discussed publicly, and I
think it's better for us not to discuss it.
MS. WALTERS. Fine, sir.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Let us talk about something that you
are involved in as a First Lady and as a
woman, Mrs. Carter, and that's the ERA.
You've devoted so much time to it. And
it seems to be in trouble getting these last
three States to ratify.
What do you think can be done? And
in your heart of hearts, do you think it's
going to pass?
MRS. CARTER. I don't know. If I have
had a failure, I think that not being able
to ratify the equal rights amendment has
been the failure in these past 2 years, be-
cause it is so important and we just can't
seem to get the message across about it.
We are working very hard now to for-
mulate plans for educating people about
what the equal rights amendment is, be-
cause I think when people know what it
is, they will be for it, that the opposition
is so distorted about it and we want to
clear up-
MS. WALTERS. You're still going to con-
tinue to work for it.
MRS. CARTER. That's right. And we
were fortunate to get the extension. And
I hope that in the next 3 years, we can
ratify it.
THE PRESIDENT. And I believe we can.
Don't you?
MRS. CARTER. I'm hopeful, I'm very
hopeful.
Ms. WALTERS. At the mini-convention,
there was a resolution that didn't come
to the floor at the mini Democratic con-
vention and that is to push for-that the
next Supreme Court Justice be a woman.
Are you pushing for that? Is that on your
top priority, Mrs. Carter?
MRS. CARTER. Well, the opportunity
has not arisen yet. [Laughter] But I agree
with the resolution.
MS. WALTERS. You do?
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Mr. President, any plans to travel? We
know you're going to Guadeloupe. Any
plans perhaps to go to China in 1979-so
many different things happening there,
many different new positions.
THE PRESIDENT. Barbara, the position
that I've taken is that both President
Nixon and President Ford have gone to
China. The Chinese leaders have not seen
fit to come here. And I don't intend to go
to China until after the Chinese leaders
come here.
MS. WALTERS. Do the changes in
China, which seems to be even to a small
degree a somewhat more democratic
process, allow you to think that we may
have any changes in our policy in 1979?
THE PRESIDENT. We have already
made great improvements in our rela-
tionships with China in recent months be-
cause of the changes you describe, with
trade missions, increased relationships in
research, development, exploration of en-
ergy possibilities with them jointly, pri-
marily with the private business commu-
nity in our own Nation, agricultural as-
sessments, their visits here. This year there
are large numbers of Chinese students
who will come to our country and to
2260
