Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 1, 1978
St. Louis, Missouri
Remarks at the National League of Cities'
1978 Congress of Cities.
November 27, 1978
President Tom Moody, thank you for that
introduction. My good friend, soon to be
president, John Rousakis, Vice President
Jessie Rattley, President Bill McNichols, a
great help to me and all of you, I'm sure,
Alan Beals, Governor Teasdale, Senator
Eagleton, Senator Hatch, Senator Jake
Garn-former mayor of Salt Lake City,
and who would have been, perhaps almost
surely, president of this organization had
he not been elected to the U.S. Senate-
members of the board, members of the
National League of Cities:
I spent this last weekend at Camp
David with 30 relatives, and I'm very
grateful to escape-[laughter] and to
come and join you in a wonderful city. I
received the congratulations and interest
of my own family. Amy said that when I
got to St. Louis, I would find not only a
beautiful city but one of the finest zoos
friends and to come in this delightful com-
munity to share with you my thoughts
about American cities.
But in a discussion of where we have
been, where we are, and what we must
do to conserve the greatness of our cities,
we must also deal with our number one
economic problem, and that is inflation.
I admired the strength and the via-
bility of our cities when I was a boy grow-
ing up in southwest Georgia. I first ex-
perienced it as a child when I went from
Archery to Plains and then a little later
to our county seat of Americus and even-
tually to the metropolis of Atlanta.
After I was elected President I began to
realize more vividly the problems of our
cities. Shortly after the election two men
knocked on my door; I went outside. It
was Mayor Abraham Beame and Gover-
nor Carey. I asked them what they
needed. They said, “We need a loan guar-
antee of $1,650,000,000 and two bus
tickets back to New York." [Laughter]
We have, I think, come a long way since
then.
And I'm in a somewhat better position
in the world. My brother, Billy, pointed both to appreciate and to help the dy-
out there's one of the largest breweries in
the world here. [Laughter] I had other
comments from different members of
my family.
So, I want to thank you for inviting
me. It's very good to see so many old
namic cities of our Nation since I have
become President. I want you to help me,
and me to help you, build and conserve
cities that are bright, vital, filled with life,
and filled with enterprise. That requires,
as you know, a close cooperation between
2075
