Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 2
cated and detailed and far-reaching five
bills that I signed into law earlier this
year; to take that law and then to imple-
ment it is a very major consideration.
Also, in the preparation of the 1980 fis-
cal year budget and subsequent budgets,
that Phase II implementation of energy
savings must be consummated, both in the
allocation of tax benefits for those who
shift to more plentiful supplies of fuel,
encouragement of conservation, and the
great increase in allocation of basic re-
search and development funds for solar
energy and other alternate, more perma-
nent supplies of energy.
As far as the inflationary impact of im-
ported oil, I would say the overriding in-
terest that we had in consummating the
energy policy is to reduce dependence on
imported oil below what it would have
been had there been no energy policy ap-
proved by the Congress.
We, at the same time, are trying to hold
down the inclination of the OPEC na-
tions to increase the price of oil that we
do have to purchase, whatever the level
of imports might be. Secretary Blumen-
thal has just returned from a fairly exten-
sive trip to the Mideast to try to convince
them in an open and clear and fair and
objective way about the benefits to be de-
rived among the OPEC nations for stable
economic circumstances around the
world.
We are trying to do our part by con-
trolling inflation in our own country and
by stabilizing the value of the dollar.
Since the 1st of November, I think was
the date, when I approved a new pro-
gram to strengthen the American dollar,
its value has increased about 12 percent, I
think, with respect to the deutsche mark,
German deutsche mark, and about the
same amount with respect to the Swiss
respect to the Swiss
franc and the Japanese yen. This is some-
thing we've done on our own behalf.
But I think that to the extent that the
OPEC nations realize that an increase in
the price of oil to an inordinate degree
would be counterproductive, it would
help to hold down inflationary pressures
in the future.
So, to implement and administer the
existing laws that have just been passed,
major tasks; through budgetary decisions
on the allocation of funds for research,
development, and shifting toward new
energy supplies, a second thing; to reduce
imports as much as we can in present and
future years; and to hold down the price
of oil that is imported-those are the four
basic thrusts that we are pursuing.
STEEL IMPORTS
Q. Following up, regarding imports-
Jim Blount from Hamilton, Ohio-
Armco Steel is located in my area. Of
course, speaking of imports, they report
this week of foreign import of steel con-
tinuing to increase—I think it was 16 per-
cent rate over the last year. I would be
interested in your comments if the ad-
ministration is planning any more action
on the trigger price mechanism in order
to try to hold that down.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the trigger
price mechanism has only been in effect
since May of this year. And so far we've
been pleased with the results. The basic
modification of that program, I think,
would be inappropriate so soon. We don't
have any plans to do it. We are constantly
assessing, however, the trigger price itself,
as we look at inflation here and in other
countries, look at the price of producing
oil in Japan, which is the base nation that
we observe, and also as we assess the im-
port levels from different countries.
The last figures that I've actually seen
officially were that Japanese exports to us
had been reduced substantially since the
trigger price mechanism was imple-
2153
