Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
First inhabitants of Misty Fiords may
have settled in the area as long ago as
10,000 years. The area contains cultural
sites and objects of historical significance,
including traditional native hunting and
fishing grounds. Later historical evidence
includes a mid-1800's military post-port
entry on Tongass Island and a salmon
cannery in Behm Canal established in the
late 1800's.
Misty Fiords is unique in that the area
includes wildlife representative of nearly
every ecosystem in Southeast Alaska, most
notably bald eagles, brown and black
bears, moose, wolves, mountain goats and
Sitka black-tailed deer. Numerous other
bird species nest and feed in the area,
notably falcons and waterfowl. Misty
Fiords is a major producer of all five
species of Pacific salmon and is especially
important for king salmon. Numerous
other saltwater, freshwater and anadro-
mous fish species and shellfish are plenti-
ful in this area, which is an extraordinarily
fertile interface of marine and freshwater
environments. Unusual plantlife includes
Pacific silver and subalpine fir trees near
the northern limit of their range. The area
includes an unusual variety of virgin for-
ests, ranging from coastal spruce-hemlock
to alpine forests.
As an intact coastal ecosystem, Misty
Fiords possesses a collective array of ob-
jects of outstanding value for continuing
scientific study. The boundaries of the
area follow watershed perimeters and
include the smallest area compatible with
protection of this unique ecosystem and
the remarkable geologic and biological
objects and features it contains.
Hunting and fishing shall continue to
be regulated, permitted and controlled
in accord with the statutory authorities
applicable to the monument area.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, at his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the government
of the United States to be National Monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of lands, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest
area compatible with the proper care and
of
of the objects to be
management
protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by
section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906,
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do pro-
claim that there are hereby set apart and
reserved as the Misty Fiords National
Monument all lands, including sub-
merged lands, and waters owned or con-
trolled by the United States within the
boundaries of the area described on the
document entitled "Misty Fiords National
Monument (Copper River Meridian)",
attached to and forming a part of this
Proclamation. The area reserved consists
of approximately 2,285,000 acres, and
is the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
Monument upon acquisition of title there-
to by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this Monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this Monument
and for the proper administration of the
2135
