Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
and talents away from war and death, to
making the deserts fruitful and to build-
ing, instead of preparing to destroy.
The Prophet Isaiah, who wrote about
ancient wars between Israel and her
neighbors, tells us that the work of right-
eousness is peace. The United States has
tried this year to help other nations find
peace. We have succeeded in several
troubled areas in getting people to talk to
each other and to work out their differ-
ences without resorting to violence and to
war.
I hope that the time has passed when
people excuse the pain and destruction
and death and see war in itself as a dem-
onstration of national heroism. This
generation, our generation, has seen too
much of war's desolation. We've seen
what it can do spiritually, as well as
physically, to a people. War is no longer
the brave sound of parades and drums
and trumpets. We've seen it as it is, the
loss of the young in the full flower of their
promise, the death of families and entire
communities, and the threat of nuclear
devastation for the world.
I think the world is more ready than
ever before to understand the thrust of
Ralph Waldo Emerson's words that peace
is victory for both sides. I believe that na-
tions may be ready now to accept the pos-
sibility that those whom they have called
enemies might live undisturbed on Earth
and that we might at last learn to call
even enemies brothers and sisters.
Perhaps at last the same fervor and
commitment and sense of high purpose
with which we once sought victory in war
can now be devoted to our search for
peace. And then we will truly be able to
in our hearts, for the fulfillment of
say
the ancient promise of peace on Earth,
good will toward men.
The evergreen tree that we use at
Christmas is a symbol of eternal life, and
also of the perpetual renewal of life. As
I light our Nation's Christmas tree, and
whenever you see a glowing tree this
Christmas, I hope that you will see it as
a rekindling of our faith and hope and
our dedication to the cause of unity and
a great nation's influence throughout the
world for peace on Earth.
Thank you very much. And now we'll
proceed to wish all the world a happy
Christmas by lighting the Christmas tree
together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:44 p.m. on
the Ellipse. Following his remarks, he lit the
National Community Christmas Tree with the
help of his daughter, Amy.
Interview With the President
and Mrs. Carter
Question-and-Answer Session With Barbara
Walters of the American Broadcasting
Company. December 14, 1978
MS. WALTERS. This is the Green Room
of the White House, decorated for Christ-
mas. We sit here today with President and
Mrs. Carter to talk of the Nation, the
world, and of themselves.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
It was exactly 2 years ago today, on
December 14, that I had the pleasure of
talking with both of them in Plains,
Georgia. And at that time, it was the first
interview that they had done together
only interview that they have done to-
since the election. And it is, today, the
gether since that time.
At the conclusion of that conversation,
I asked Mr. Carter if there was anything
about his new life which gave him appre-
hension. And here is how his answer went.ยน
1 ABC News later inserted a segment of the
interview referred to by Ms. Walters in its
broadcast of this interview.
2247
