Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
those who have offered their lives in this
noble purpose.
In my own State, and in the area in
which Jack Brinkley and I live, for in-
stance, the land was settled by drawings of
lottery cards by those who had served in
the Revolutionary War. And many of the
families who moved into the western part
of Georgia and other parts of our country
acquired their land by having served in
the war to give our own country its initial
status and freedom.
These two bills this morning, House
bill 11886 and House bill 12028, continue
this process to honor veterans in the first
place and to give them an opportunity for
a reasonable competitive relationship with
other citizens who may not have suffered
in the war.
One thing that we need to protect all
citizens against is the impact of inflation.
The disabled veterans compensation has
been increased in these bills by 7.3 per-
cent, which equates to the inflation rate
last year.
There has been an increase in the max-
imum home loans to be guaranteed, from
$17,500 to $25,000, and the rights of vet-
erans to acquire certain categories of con-
dominiums and also mobile homes has
been included.
We also have recognized the impor-
tance of improved energy conservation
and special provisions have been made for
homes that would include these features.
In addition to that, of course, we have in-
creased the allocation of funds for modi-
fying homes to accommodate those vet-
erans who are severely disabled, up to a
maximum now of $30,000.
The active duty requirements for vet-
erans to receive loan guarantees in the
Vietnam war have now been equated with
those requirements for veterans who have
served in the Korean and the World War
II.
As many of you have known, who are
related directly to veterans, we've had a
problem in finding cemetery space for
those who have died. And these bills will
provide that not only will there be a bet-
ter opportunity for making available
limited space in Federal cemeteries, but
also a new program for enhancing serv-
ices through State cemeteries for veterans
will be included.
We've never had an unidentified or un-
known soldier from the Vietnam war. All
those who died and whose bodies were
recovered have been identified. But this
bill recognizes that at Arlington, where
our Nation focuses its attention upon vet-
erans, that there should be a means to
honor those who died in Vietnam, and a
special plaque will be installed there as a
result of these two bills.
I might add my thanks to the Mem-
bers of Congress who serve in this impor-
tant realm of legislative responsibility-
Congressman Jack Brinkley, who happens
to be my own personal Congressman
from the Third District, Congresswoman
Margaret Heckler, who was to be here this
morning, and many others.
As you know, in the Senate Alan
Cranston has been one of the leaders in
meeting the needs of veterans. Although
it won't be signed this morning, because
it has not yet arrived on my desk, I will
sign the veterans pension bill of 1978 as
soon as it does arrive in my office.
I want to congratulate all those who
have been instrumental in improving the
lot of veterans. We quite often have not
recognized them adequately, particularly
those who served in the Vietnam war.
This is a major step in the right direction.
And I'm very proud as President to sign
these two bills and want to again congrat-
ulate those in the Congress who have
made this step forward possible.
1790
