Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
ting this report to Congress setting forth
my decision with respect to high carbon
ferrochromium covered by the affirmative
finding on September 6, 1978, of the
U.S. International Trade Commission
(USITC) under Section 201(d)(1) of
the Trade Act. As my action differs from
that recommended by the USITC, I have
included the reasons for my decisions.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those set forth in
Section 202 (c) of the Trade Act of 1974,
I have determined that import relief in
the form of an increased tariff of 4¢ on
any high carbon ferrochromium (HCF)
entering the United States at less than
a value of 38¢ per pound would be ap-
propriate because:
(1) The additional duty on HCF
would provide the domestic industry with
the opportunity to operate at a reasonable
rate of return.
(2) The additional duty on HCF
would raise the U.S. import price to a
level sufficient to minimize the likelihood
that the EC minimum import price and
Japan's duty paid import price would
divert HCF exports to the U.S.
(3) The additional duty would pro-
tect the most competitive U.S. producers
from bearing the burden of the current
world oversupply situation while less
efficient EC and Japanese producers are
being protected.
(4) Since the volume of business in-
volved is small, and prices substantially
depressed, the inflationary impact would
be minimized.
(5) The proposed remedy should min-
imize any adverse effect on foreign sup-
pliers in that shipments of high carbon
ferrochromium entering the United
States at not less than 40¢ per pound
would not bear any additional duty.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Domestic High Carbon
Ferrochromium Industry
Memorandum From the President.
November 2, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination Under Section
202(a) of the Trade Act; High Carbon
Ferrochromium
Pursuant to Section 202(b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, 88 Stat.
1978), I have determined the action I will
take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC) dated September 6,
1978, concerning the results of its investi-
gation, as requested by the House Ways
and Means Committee, of the domestic
industry producing ferrochromium, con-
taining over 3% by weight of carbon, pro-
vided for in Item 607.31 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those set forth in Sec-
tion 202(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, I
have determined to provide import relief
for the domestic industry. Relief should
be granted in the form of an increased
tariff of 4¢ on any high carbon ferrochro-
mium entering the United States at less
than a value of 38¢ per pound for the
following reasons:
1. The domestic industry is currently
operating at unprofitable levels. Even the
most competitive domestic firm (which
supplies over half of all domestic produc-
tion) is operating with substantial losses
1941
