Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 1
could to defeat, Japan and Germany, are
now among our greatest allies and friends.
They were our greatest enemies. Now
they're our greatest allies. And had we
had the same trade relationships and busi-
ness interrelationships and cultural inter-
relationships among people like you who
are leaders in your own right, the course
of world events might very well have been
quite different. But I want to express my
thanks to you, as President of the United
States, for your generosity and your lead-
ership in honoring our country and your
State by bringing this tremendous con-
vention here.
It's typical of you, and I know that you
are proud, as am I, that you've been able
to accomplish this great feat. It'll help us
in many ways, those of us who serve in
government, those of you who serve in
business and the professions, to have a bet-
ter life for our own people and, I think,
in the process have a better life for all
people around the world.
Thank you very much from the bot-
tom of my heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in
King Stefan's Banquet Hall at Walt Disney
World. He was introduced by Gov. Reubin
Askew of Florida.
Orlando, Florida
Remarks at the Opening Session of the 26th
World Conference of the International
Chamber of Commerce. October 1, 1978
Thank you, Governor Askew, Secretary
General Waldheim, President McGregor,
delegates and officers of this great con-
gress, distinguished guests:
It's indeed an honor to be here for
many reasons. I'm especially grateful to
be on the same program with Secretary
General Kurt Waldheim, who has my
deepest admiration and appreciation,
who leads the United Nations with cour-
age and sensitivity and effectiveness, and
with whom I sympathize very deeply. I
have 50 States to deal with; he has 150
states. And his complicated responsibili-
ties greatly transcend my own.
I'm also glad to come to Disney World.
me so graciously in his remarks. We
worked very closely on many occasions,
and it's a reassuring fact for myself and
all other national leaders to have him in
that position of responsibility.
I'm also glad to come to Disney World.
I was looking forward to seeing Fantasy
Land, particularly because it's the source
of inspiration for my economic advisers.
[Laughter] I think perhaps some of you
can see the origin of ideas that you get
from advisers as well while you're down
here.
I think it's a wonderful thing that you
have assembled in our country. And I'm
very pleased to welcome the Interna-
tional Chamber of Commerce to its third
conference on United States soil and
proud that you've returned here, even
though the interval has been 20 years.
It's a tribute to Governor Reubin Askew
and your other gracious hosts in Florida.
that now, for the first time in your his-
tory, I understand you are not meeting in
the capital city of the host nation.
I come here proud, but also sobered. A
few hours ago, I walked among the
launching pads at Cape Kennedy and
placed medals around the necks of five
astronauts who had led the way to space,
and in the hands of one widow, Mrs. Vir-
gil Grissom, whose husband gave his own
life after great and courageous feats.
There is no prouder testimony than that
center of space exploration to what
mankind can accomplish, calling on our
creativity, our resources, using our vast
technology for exploration rather than
1689
