Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending December 31, 1978
American Bolt, Nut, and Large
Screw Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a Report.
December 22, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with section 203 (b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
decision to modify the import relief rec-
ommendation of the U.S. International
Trade Commissior. (USITC) by pro-
claiming increased tariffs of 15 percent
on iron or steel bolts, nuts, and large
screws for a three-year period and giving
the reasons for my decision. This report
also discusses why the import relief I will
proclaim differs from that recommended
by the USITC.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
BOLTS, NUTS AND LARGE SCREWS
As required by section 203(b)(1) of
the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting
this report to Congress setting forth the
actions I will take with respect to iron or
steel bolts, nuts, and large screws covered
by the affirmative finding, on Novem-
ber 3, 1978, of the U.S. International
Trade Commission (USITC) under sec-
tion 201(d) (1) of the Trade Act. As my
decision provides import relief which
differs from that recommended by the
USITC, I am setting forth the reasons
for such difference.
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief in the form of 15 percent
tariffs on iron or steel bolts, nuts, and
large screws is in the national economic
interest and therefore will proclaim this
remedy. Under this remedy, tariffs will
remain at 15 percent for large screws (in-
cluding lag screws), and 15 percent plus
the current tariffs of 0.2 and 0.1 cent per
pound, respectively, for bolts and nuts for
a three-year period after which time they
will revert to their current levels (which
range from less than one percent ad
valorem equivalent to 12.5 percent).
As required by statute, this relief must
be implemented within 15 days of this
determination.
2283
