Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 15
-Both believe that normalization of Sino-
American relations is not only in the
interest of the Chinese and American
peoples but also contributes to the cause
of peace in Asia and the world.
The United States of America and the
People's Republic of China will exchange
Ambassadors and establish Embassies on
March 1, 1979.
Yesterday, our country and the People's
Republic of China reached this final his-
toric agreement. On January 1, 1979, a
little more than 2 weeks from now, our
two Governments will implement full
normalization of diplomatic relations.
As a nation of gifted people who com-
prise about one-fourth of the total popula-
tion of the Earth, China plays, already, an
important role in world affairs, a role
that can only grow more important in the
years ahead.
We do not undertake this important
step for transient tactical or expedient
reasons. In recognizing the People's Re-
public of China, that it is the single Gov-
ernment of China, we are recognizing
simple reality. But far more is involved
in this decision than just the recognition
of a fact.
Before the estrangement of recent dec-
ades, the American and the Chinese
people had a long history of friendship.
We've already begun to rebuild some of
those previous ties. Now our rapidly ex-
panding relationship requires the kind of
structure that only full diplomatic rela-
tions will make possible.
The change that I'm announcing to-
night will be of great long-term benefit to
the peoples of both our country and
China—and, I believe, to all the peoples
of the world. Normalization—and the ex-
panded commercial and cultural rela-
tions that it will bring-will contribute
to the well-being of our own Nation, to
our own national interest, and it will also
enhance the stability of Asia. These more
positive relations with China can bene-
ficially affect the world in which we live
and the world in which our children will
live.
We have already begun to inform our
allies and other nations and the Members
of the Congress of the details of our in-
tended action. But I wish also tonight to
convey a special message to the people of
Taiwan-I have already communicated
with the leaders in Taiwan-with whom
the American people have had and will
have extensive, close, and friendly rela-
tions. This is important between our two
peoples.
As the United States asserted in the
Shanghai Communique of 1972, issued
on President Nixon's historic visit, we will
continue to have an interest in the peace-
ful resolution of the Taiwan issue. I have
normalization of relations between our
paid special attention to ensuring that
country and the People's Republic will
not jeopardize the well-being of the peo-
ple of Taiwan. The people of our country
will maintain our current commercial,
cultural, trade, and other relations with
Taiwan through nongovernmental means.
Many other countries in the world are al-
ready successfully doing this.
These decisions and these actions open
a new and important chapter in our coun-
try's history and also in world affairs.
To strengthen and to expedite the ben-
efits of this new relationship between
China and the United States, I am pleased
to announce that Vice Premier Teng has
accepted my invitation and will visit
Washington at the end of January. His
visit will give our Governments the op-
portunity to consult with each other on
global issues and to begin working to-
gether to enhance the cause of world
peace.
These events are the final result of long
and serious negotiations begun by Presi-
dent Nixon in 1972, and continued under
2265
