Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
send energy back via microwaves and
photoelectric cells.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll be very brief
with that. I'm going from here to a meet-
ing on the economy. I'm trying to attend
as many of the sessions as I can.
I am personally not in favor at this
time of any substantial commitment to a
satellite-type power-producing station,
because its cost and the technological
problems involved are prohibitive. But I
would say that our shift toward solar
energy is going to be substantial even in
the 1980 tight fiscal year budget. And I
don't have any final figures and haven't
made final decisions, but I would say that
that commitment would approach a bil-
lion dollars next year, the total involved
in solar energy itself.
And with the basic resource of the
new energy legislation which opens up
vistas now and possibilities for rapid
evolution of alternate sources to oil and
natural gas, the hopes that you've ex-
pressed will be much more feasible. But
I think it's a long way in the future before
we can start depending upon a space sta-
tion to provide electricity, say, for Mem-
phis or Plains.
Thank you very much.
Q. Well, we're not going to get there
until we start, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. I agree.
I've got to go. And I want to express
my thanks to all of you for letting me
come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 a.m. in
Mezzanine Room N at the Cook Convention
Center.
Prior to the President's arrival, the mem-
bers of the panel-David L. Aaron, Deputy
Assistant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs, William J. Perry, Under Secretary
of Defense for Research and Engineering, and
Senator John C. Culver of Iowa-made open-
ing statements. Governor-elect Richard Riley
of South Carolina chaired the workshop.
Memphis, Tennessee
Democratic Conference Workshop on Inflation.
Question-and-Answer Session at the National
December 9, 1978
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. The
President would like to entertain ques-
tions. [Laughter]
FOREIGN TRADE
Q. We're still operating under our inter-
national trade agreements that were de-
vised in the late 1940's, and, of course,
they were originated to rebuild industry
in Western Europe and Japan. And they
did a magnificent job of it.
However, at the present time, Germany
and Japan and Western Europe and all
these manufacturing nations are still
operating under the systems that we
helped them to build in the 1940's, to
build their industry. Consequently, our
industrial complex is continuously being,
not actually reduced, but reduced in com-
parison with our competitors.
So, what I want to make a strong pitch
for is that we place the same restraints on
imports into the United States, say, re-
ciprocal restraints as those nations place
on our imports into their countries. If we
did this, I have a strong feeling that our
industry will become much healthier; it
would reduce inflation, because our sys-
tem flourishes on the supply-and-demand
theory. It seems to me the only way that
we can really stop this business.
I would also like to have this workshop
consider the possibility, if they could, of
placing some restraint on the increase of
interest rates. If 8-percent wage increases
are inflationary, then what is a 1134 per-
cent interest rate? The banking industry
can increase their profits by 800 percent.
And our purchasing power is being con-
tinuously reduced. Thank you.
2209
