Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 19
sued today is a reflection of that concern.
In March of this year, I submitted to
the Congress a special report on my
views
for possible reforms of the United Na-
tions system. Among the things that I
would like to see are
-more effective procedures for the set-
tlement of disputes between na-
tions-before they erupt into blood-
shed;
-increased preparedness for dispatch
of U.N. troops in peacekeeping ef-
forts whenever and wherever needed;
-quicker and more effective reactions
to reported human rights abuses;
-a study of ways we might develop
autonomous sources of revenue for
the international community;
-increased accountability for the ex-
penditure of the funds contributed by
149 nations; and
-greater operational efficiency.
It is clearly in the American interest to
ensure that the United Nations operates
as effectively as it can, and we are now
working with other U.N. members and
with Secretary General Waldheim to
bring this about.
As we undertake this important effort,
I believe that Americans everywhere need
to reflect more fully on the important con-
tributions of the United Nations-the op-
portunities it provides and the direct
benefits it brings. With this in mind, I
ask the Congress to continue to provide
the U.N. with the moral backing and
financial support that have permitted the
United States to play the significant role
in the organization that we have since it
was created.
pro-
The proclamation issued today will
vide an appropriate reference point for
increased attention to the United Nations
and its affiliated agencies. I ask all Ameri-
cans to join me in reinforcing our support
for this vital institution.
Armed Forces Promotion and
Disability Separation Limitations
Executive Order 12082. September 19, 1978
SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN ARMED FORCES
PROMOTION AND DISABILITY SEPARA-
TION LIMITATIONS
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
Sections 2 and 3 of an Act approved by
me today (bill S. 3454 enacted by the Sen-
ate and the House of Representatives on
September 7 and 12, 1978), and having
determined that certain promotion limita-
tions applicable to the Navy and Marine
Corps should continue to be suspended,
and having determined that the new sta-
tutory conditions authorizing a continua-
tion of certain existing disability separa-
tion practices in the Armed Forces should
be effective, it is hereby ordered as fol-
lows:
1-101. For the period beginning on
September 15, 1978 and ending on Sep-
tember 30, 1979, the application of the
following provisions of Title 10 of the
United States Code is suspended:
(a) Section 5707 (c), restricting the
number of Navy and Marine Corps offi-
cers who may be recommended for pro-
motion from below the appropriate pro-
motion zone.
(b) Section 5751(a), requiring Marine
Corps officers serving in the grade of
brigadier general to have completed three
years' service in grade to be eligible for
consideration for promotion to major gen-
eral.
(c) Section 5751 (b), requiring certain
officers to have completed specific years
of service in grade before being eligible
for consideration for promotion to the
next higher grade.
(d) Section 5751 (e), precluding offi-
cers designated for limited duty who are
1541
