Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 5
when other people are trying to speak.¹
[Applause] Let me say to you that that's
one basic right that I would never want
to see eliminated in our country. Our Na-
tion was founded on the principle of peo-
ple's liberty, people's freedom, people's in-
dividuality, a right to express ourselves, to
stand on our own feet, to make our voices
heard, to stand for decency and honesty
and morality—a nation, through strength,
to lead the rest of the world to peace.
We've never betrayed those principles.
And one of the things that I wanted to do
when I came into the President's office,
after Vietnam, after Watergate, after the
CIA revelations, was to have some stand-
ard that I could raise to make Americans
once again part of their country. And as
long as I'm in the White House, I not only
will do everything I can in this country
but I'll do everything I can throughout
the world to make human rights be two
words that the world will never forget.
And we'll be the ones to stand more
strongly for those rights.
America is a religious nation. North
Carolina is a State whose families, whose
communities are centered around the
church. No matter what your own beliefs
might be, we know that God teaches us
to care for others, to preserve principles
in spite of hardship, to exhibit courage
when our Nation or our families or our
own selves are being tested through diffi-
cult times.
We are not afraid of the future. We
know that our Nation has an inherent
strength derived, to a major degree, from
belief in God. One of the things that I did
when I was campaigning through North
Carolina was to say quite openly that I
was a believer in God, that I was not
ashamed of it, that I was not afraid to say
so publicly. As a Baptist, I also believe in
1 The President was referring to a group of
people demonstrating near the audience.
the separation of church and state. But
those guidelines that often control our
lives, which always should control our
lives, should also control our Nation.
We've a strong nation. But we don't
have to be a bully to show it. We want to
be the kind of nation that arouses the un-
derstanding and the admiration and the
friendship of smaller countries, those that
are poor, those that are uncertain, those
that are new, those whose citizens might
be black or brown or yellow. We're try-
ing to extend the influence of our Nation
and its principles throughout the world in
a good, decent way, to make Americans
proud.
We have a good agenda for the Demo-
cratic Party. But there's no way that I
can be successful as your President in put-
ting forward those proposals unless I have
a team effort.
The most important element of that
team is obviously the American citizens,
yourselves, who share the same principles
and hopes that I do. But I also need a
good team in the Democratic Party, a
party which has always mirrored accu-
rately what North Carolinians want and
in which you believe.
Bob Morgan, Jim Hunt, in the future,
as you know, the fine Senator John In-
gram for next year, Congressman Jones,
Richardson Pryor, others, your own Con-
gressman Fountain-we have a need to
have a strong team. And I hope that this
year you remember all the Democratic
delegation, measure them with the strict-
est standards. You will find them not
wanting. They need your help.
If there's one characteristic of our party
which has always been crucial to us, it's
closeness to the people. We'll never betray
your trust. We recognize that you are the
ones who put us in office. We recognize
that we have to please you to stay there.
And we can only please you if we under-
stand what you want our Nation to be.
1389
