Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 29
Labor Relations Board from 1965 to 1969.
Since 1969 he has been director of the
Labor-Management Relations Service,
sponsored by the U.S. Conference of
Mayors to provide local governments with
information on municipal labor-manage-
ment relations.
Zagoria is the author of numerous
articles and the editor of the book "Public
Workers and Public Unions."
Federal Employees Flexible
and Compressed Work
Schedules Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 7814 Into Law.
September 29, 1978
It gives me great pleasure today to sign
into law the Federal Employees Flexible
and Compressed Work Schedules Act of
1978, which will permit Federal agencies
to experiment with alternatives to the
traditional 5-day, 40-hour week. I con-
gratulate Representatives Patricia Schroe-
der, Stephen Solarz, and Gladys Spellman,
and Senators Gaylord Nelson, Thomas
Eagleton, and Jacob Javits, for their
leadership on this bill. I add my special
thanks to committee chairmen Robert
Nix, Abraham Ribicoff, and Harrison
Williams. I would also like to thank
Herbert Harris and Joseph Fisher for
their support of this bill.
During the campaign I made a promise
to encourage the introduction of more
flexible work alternatives to benefit,
among others, persons with children, stu-
dents, and the older or handicapped
worker. I am pleased that the Congress
also recognized the potential of flexible
work arrangements and has now given me
the opportunity to carry out that cam-
paign pledge.
We hope that flexible work schedules
will increase Government productivity
and responsiveness to public needs and
provide a new pool of talent for Govern-
ment service. We expect that some Fed-
eral agencies will remain open to serve
the public for a greater number of hours
each day by using flexible time schedules.
We also will be studying the impact of
these work schedule alternatives on the
use of mass transportation facilities and
energy conservation. Finally, we believe
that the quality of individual, family, and
working life can be improved when per-
sons are given some voice in the selection
of their work arrangements.
While the advantages appear to be sub-
stantial, these schedules have not yet been
tested within the full range of environ-
ments that characterize Federal employ-
ment. Therefore, before making a deci-
sion to amend Federal laws permanently,
this legislation wisely establishes an ex-
perimental period of 3 years during which
we can evaluate various innovations in a
large number of agencies.
This bill also contains a very important
provision, introduced by Representative
Solarz, which would allow a Federal em-
ployee whose personal religious beliefs
may occasionally require absence from
work to request overtime to make up the
time lost. Such overtime work would be
compensated with an equal amount of
time off, in lieu of overtime pay. I am
especially pleased that this provision
comes in time for the High Holy Days of
the Jewish faith. Congressman Solarz de-
serves special commendation for his sen-
his innovative solution. The Civil Service
sitivity to this religious problem and for
Commission will immediately issue in-
terim regulations implementing the com-
pensatory time-off provisions.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7814 is Public Law
95-390, approved September 29.
1667
