Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 12
tary Vance to conclude the negotiations
without further delay. My hope is and my
expectation is that the Israelis will have
the same attitude.
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM
Q. Mr. President, this may sound like
a frivolous question, but I hope you won't
think so. But the National Anthem is
played at every trashy football game and
baseball game and wrestling match and
boxing. Don't you think that downgrades
it quite a bit to do that incessantly?
THE PRESIDENT. That's not any more
frivolous a question than I have gotten
in the past. [Laughter] And I think it is
a very good question.
I personally don't think that frequent
playing of the National Anthem down-
plays its importance. No matter how often
I hear the National Anthem, I'm always
stirred within myself toward more intense
feelings of patriotism and a realization of
what our Nation stands for. And I think
for audiences at sports events to hear the
National Anthem played is good and not
contrary to the influence that the National
Anthem has on all of us.
ADMINISTRATION ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Q. Mr. President, at year's end, how do
you assess the last 11, 112 months, the
pluses and the minuses as you see them,
the hits and the errors—and, particularly,
would you speak a little bit about the
errors?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as a completely
nonbiased analyst, I would say that the
pluses far outweigh the minuses. I think
any analysis of the accomplishments of
the 95th Congress, including those made
by the news media representatives here,
have been positive, that the accomplish-
ments were substantial, much greater in
the final stages of the Congress session
than had been anticipated earlier in the
year.
We've still got a lot of unfulfilled ex-
pectations and hopes. We have not suc-
cessfully addressed the question of infla-
tion. It's been greater during the second
half of the year than we had anticipated.
We have been pleasantly surprised at
maintaining the higher and higher level
of employment, preventing the unemploy-
ment rate from going up. Last year we
had 660,000 new jobs created in America
in spite of some slowing down in the na-
tional economy, which was expected.
In international affairs, our country has
injected itself, I think wisely, into regional
disputes where we have no control over
the outcome. But we've added our good
services, in some instances with almost no
immediate prospect of success. My own
reputation has been at stake and that of
our country.
In Nicaragua, I think instead of having
violent and massive bloodshed, we now
have the parties negotiating directly with
one another for the first time on the terms
of a plebiscite and whether or not there
should be general amnesty. In Namibia,
we are making some good progress, I be-
lieve. The South Africans have now ac-
cepted the terms set up by the Secretary
General of the United Nations. We are
waiting for SWAPO to respond.* Cyprus,
very minimal but steady, increasing pros-
pects. Mideast, you're well acquainted
with that. And I think that on SALT and
other major international items we have
made steady progress.
*In fact, SWAPO accepts the relevant
United Nations resolutions on Namibia. The
President's intention was to call for their con-
tinued support. The United States is waiting
for South Africa to indicate in definitive terms
its acceptance of the proposal and a date for
the arrival of the United Nations transition as-
sistance group. [Printed in the transcript.]
2221
