Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
understand that there are about 2 million
tons a month coming in with your price
trigger mechanism in effect.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Shalom
to you,
also. [Laughter] When Prime Min-
ister Begin left the Oval Office for the last
time, I gave him a little plaque that said,
"Shalom, y'all." [Laughter]
It would be a mistake for anyone to
blame the inflation rate on either the Fed-
eral Government, the labor unions, the
working people, or industry, or the private
citizens. All of us share a responsibility for
controlling inflation. It's been a constant
burden for the American people and a
constant threat for at least the last 10
years. As you know, at one time in 1973
or '74, it got up about 14 percent. It's
still running at a prevailing rate of about
7 percent, much too high.
I'm responsible directly for the Federal
Government. I can't control labor unions,
I can't control private industry, I can't
control private citizens' lives, nor the buy-
ing patterns of housewives or others who
shop for products in our country. But
within the limits of my own ability and
short of mandatory price and wage con-
trols, which I do not favor and don't have
any intention to implement, I have to do
the best I can.
Among the top officials in Government,
including all my Cabinet, the administra-
tors, I have put a zero increase in effect.
There will be no increases at all. And
they some of them willingly, some of
them unwillingly-will absorb the full in-
crease of inflation during this 12-month
period. I think that their income, which is
fairly high, is enough to accommodate it.
Among other Federal employees, we
tried to put into effect a salary increase
level about what the prevailing rate of in-
crease had been for the last year or two,
since I've been in office-not this year,
last year-about 52 percent. I don't
think that will work any extraordinary
hardship on a Federal employee. It would
obviously be better for them to have a 7-
or 8- or 9- or 10-percent increase. I can't
deny that. They'll still get their regular
merit system increases, which are not lim-
ited at all.
And I think in the future with the new
civil service reform legislation that I ex-
pect to sign into law shortly, they'll have
a better life for themselves.
So, I'm on pretty sound ground in rec-
ommending to the Congress—I think the
Congress will honor my recommendation
that 5½ percent ought to set a standard
or a guide for the rest of the Nation to
follow.
Let me say on the steel imports, I de-
scribed earlier the benefits that have been
derived already from the trigger price
mechanism that we put into effect. There's
been an actual reduction in Japanese ex-
ports, for instance, of steel. There's been
an increase, tremendous increase, in pro-
duction of steel in our own country. In the
last 12 months, the production of steel in
our country has gone up 10 percent. So, I
think we've got a good start on controlling
imports.
We put a stop now to dumping in al-
most every incident. We are trying to
hone down or to modify our trigger price
mechanism to take care of unforeseen
problems. And I believe that, in general,
both the labor organizations and also the
steel manufacturers in our country think
that it's a good program. We'll continue it
in effect, improve it as we go along.
PROPERTY TAXES
Q. Welcome to Beaver County, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, ma'am.
Q. I'm Elizabeth Hensley of Harmony
Township. And my question relates to
senior citizens and reassessment of prop-
erty. Do you feel senior citizens on fixed
incomes who have lived in and paid taxes
1613
