Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
ever to serve as a union president, my
friend, I. W. Abel. And as you well know,
President Abel's successor on my right
here is poured out of the same crucible.
These men exemplify your fight for de-
cency and for social justice and for hu-
man rights-not just for your own mem-
bers but also for millions of others who
never carried a union card.
You've fought for the right of young
people to have a decent education-your
own children and the children of others.
And we are working together this year to
achieve an unprecedented increase in
Federal aid to education.
You've fought for the right of older
people to enjoy security and to escape the
burden of doubt and fear. When I as-
sumed office less than 2 years ago, our
Nation's social security system was on the
verge of financial collapse. Everywhere I
went during the campaign, the elder citi-
zens of our country would stand up and
say, "What are we going to do in the fu-
ture, because we are about to lose our
sense of purpose and our sense of secu-
rity."
You can be proud that the steelworkers
union, under very difficult political cir-
cumstances, joined with my administra-
tion and the leaders of Congress to restore
the integrity of the social security system.
As long as I'm in the White House, as
long as the steelworkers continue your
momentous influence in our country, the
social security system will continue to be
sound. And you can depend on it.
On issue after issue, right down the line,
the labor movement and my own admin-
istration have stood together. And we can
be proud of what we've accomplished
together.
We stood together to give 4 million
Americans a chance to earn a life, a living
of dignity and decency under revised and
improved Federal minimum wage. We've
stood together to pass the new mine safety
and health legislation which Lloyd Mc-
Bride and all of you have been fighting to
pass for many years. That legislation
greatly strengthens the thousands of
miners in your union and puts the respon-
sibility for enforcement for the first time
where it belongs in the Department of
Labor under Secretary Ray Marshall.
We've stood together on occupational
safety and health. Your union helped to
lead the fight to pass a strong occupa-
tional safety and health bill years ago. But
for 6 years, that legislation was systemati-
cally undermined by a hostile administra-
tion.
We've turned away from the nitpicking
that was designed to discredit the OSHA
program. Today, we are inspecting the
most dangerous job sites. Today, we are
attacking the most serious threats to
health. The value of a human life cannot
be measured on a balance sheet. And as
long as I'm President and have your sup-
port, the health and safety of American
workers on the job will be protected. And
you can depend on that.
In the last 2 years, we have stood to-
gether to safeguard American jobs threat-
ened by unfair foreign trade. The skills
and the experience of America's steel-
workers cannot be matched anywhere in
the world. But the rules of international
trade must be fair to America's workers.
America's workers, and especially Amer-
ica's steelworkers, should not be forced to
compete against foreign exporters who do
not sell their products at a fair price. I will
not permit our workers to suffer from un-
fair trading practices; dumping must stop.
The steps that we've taken to help steel-
workers and the steel industry are already
beginning to be felt. Employment in steel
has increased, just this year, 24,000 jobs.
Plant utilization was only 76 percent when
1545
