Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
"Who saves his country saves all things,
saves himself, and who lets his country
die lets all things die, dies himself igno-
bly, and all things dying curse him."
The Congress of the United States,
working with the President, has not let
the country die, but has worked to save
our country.
THE PRESIDENT. Just one more brief
comment. There have been comments
made about courage and vision. There
was also a good bit of ignorance involved.
And this spring and summer I began to
see very clearly why my predecessors had
never proposed to the Congress a compre-
hensive energy bill. [Laughter] And
everyone deserves a lot of credit. But I
would like to ask to make the closing com-
ment Jim Schlesinger, who was the guid-
ing light in the evolution of the original
proposal, who was involved in every dis-
cussion in the Congress, who was involved
in the hammering out of compromises,
and of course on whose shoulders will
now fall the responsibility of implement-
ing the legislation and also administering
the Department of Energy and perhaps in
the future proposing the modifications to
the legislation as we achieve progress in
our country in the future.
I'd like to recognize and to thank, I'm
sure on behalf of everyone here, Jim
Schlesinger and ask him to make a closing
comment.
SCHLESINGER.
SECRETARY
you, Mr. President.
Thank
It is now 18 months or more since you
signed the letter of transmittal in the
Rose Garden. Those of us who have
worked on the national energy act thought
for a while that we were taking on a life-
time calling [laughter]—that like the
Council of Trent, the natural gas confer-
ence might go on forever. [Laughter]
We have come, as we sinologists say, to
the end of a long march. And we have
come to the end of that march because
of the leaders assembled here and to
Senator Jackson, Senator Long, Chair-
man Ullman, others who could not be
here. We are grateful to all of them, Mr.
President; to you in particular for your
tenacity in staying with this legislation.
Two points, Mr. President: First, it is
the most massive legislative package ever
to come out of the Congress. It is a good
beginning, as you indicated, but we have
received here about 60 to 65 percent of
the savings in oil in 1985 that you original-
ly suggested. And we will have to do
better. There may be additional legisla-
tion for John Dingell and others to think
about.
At a time where a single country in the
Middle East in turmoil can cause difficul-
ties for the entire industrial world, poten-
tial trouble, we shall have to do better.
Secondly, Mr. President, we have the
problem of implementation. The FERC
[Federal Energy Regulatory Commission],
under Charlie Curtis, is working diligent-
ly with industry, with outside groups to
see to it that the natural gas legislation
acquired in pain will work.
Mr. President, next week we will pub-
lish our coal regulations. There are many
who have said that the coal conversion
bill has been emasculated. They will be
proved wrong, Mr. President. [Laughter]
Within a few weeks the very commenta-
tors who suggest that will be talking about
the excessive authority that has been
given to the Federal Government-
[laughter]—in that coal conversion legis-
lation.
Once again, Mr. President, thank you
for staying with this legislation.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jim.
I might point out that none of these
men who worked so hard on the legisla-
tion was defeated Tuesday, which is a
good sign for the future.
And I would like to emphasize that
this was a bipartisan effort. There was a
1984
