July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
within the General Services Administra-
tion that have recently come to my atten-
tion.
These allegations describe a pattern of
misconduct extending over many years
and ranging from abuse of Federal au-
thority to criminal practices such as
fraud. If these charges are true, an ex-
tremely serious breach of the public trust
has occurred.
I support and commend the steps you
have taken so far to bring this matter to
light and to bring those responsible to
justice. I will back you fully in whatever
procedural, personnel, organizational,
and other actions are needed.
To these ends, by copy of this memo-
randum, I am asking the Attorney General
to provide you with whatever assistance
you and others in GSA who are responsi-
ble for conducting these investigations
may require, both to complete your inves-
tigations and to take appropriate and
rapid remedial measures.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was
released on July 26.
Presidential Medal of Freedom
Remarks on Presenting the Award to
Arthur J. Goldberg. July 26, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is a good day for
me and is a memorable day in the history
of our Nation.
The Presidential Medal of Freedom is
an award issued very rarely. I've only
given two of them before, one to Dr.
Jonas Salk, who was instrumental in elim-
inating polio as a plague for the entire
world, and the other one for Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. This third award is one
that's equally well deserved.
There are many people in our Nation
who have had notable achievements,
quite often in a narrowly defined field
of interest. But Arthur Goldberg is a man
who has devoted his life to humanitarian
pursuits in the widest possible range of
both interest and notable accomplish-
ment.
As an attorney, he became an expert in
labor relations, learning how to under-
stand people, to mediate, to negotiate,
quite often under the most strenuous and
potentially divisive circumstances. The
ability to understand conflicting ideas
and to find common ground between
them has been used later on in public
service to the best interest of our country.
He became Secretary of Labor and per-
formed so superbly there that his inter-
ests were retained in that field and also
expanded into others. He has served as a
member of the United States Supreme
Court, a Justice there, and participated in
notable decisions that helped to shape the
attitude of our Nation toward basic civil
rights, basic human rights. No one has
ever doubted his purpose nor his creden-
tials. And as our Representative to the
United Nations, he brought a standard of
performance there that was an inspiration
to others.
Perhaps one of the most difficult inter-
national disputes ever witnessed, certainly
in modern history, has been in the Middle
East. And when the time came to ham-
mer out a set of principles in writing
which would be the basis for temporary
periods of peace already and, perhaps,
permanent peace in the future, Arthur
Goldberg was the one who was able to
accomplish this great achievement.
"United Nations Resolution 242" is
now a standard phrase, a pat series of let-
ters and numbers that people speak about
unshakable basis for ultimate
agreement in the Middle East. Those of us
assembled here this morning who have
as
1338
