Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 10
Economics and Political Science in 1973
and 1974. From 1967 to 1973, he worked
at the National Institute of Mental
Health, serving first as executive officer
and then as Deputy Director. Prior to 1967
he held positions at the National Library
of Medicine, the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, and the National
Institutes of Health. He was born in Mt.
Clemens, Mich., and is 41 years old.
Mr. Schneidman is currently Deputy
Director for Policy and Plans of the In-
ternational Communication Agency. He
has been with ICA since 1957, serving as
information officer in the Philippines,
cultural affairs officer in Indonesia, and
information officer in Italy. He was
named Deputy Assistant Director for East
Asia and the Pacific in 1970, and Assistant
Director (Information Centers Service)
in 1971. He was named to his current po-
sition in June of 1977. Born in Hazelton,
Pa., Mr. Schneidman is 56 years old.
Employee Retirement Income
Security Act Transfers
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978.
August 10, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am submitting to the Congress
my fourth Reorganization Plan for 1978.
This proposal is designed to simplify and
improve the unnecessarily complex ad-
ministrative requirements of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974 (ERISA). The new plan will
eliminate overlap and duplication in the
administration of ERISA and help us
achieve our goal of well regulated private
pension plans.
ERISA was an essential step in the
pro-
tection of worker pension rights. Its ad-
ministrative provisions, however, have re-
sulted in bureaucratic confusion and have
been justifiably criticized by employers
and unions alike. The biggest problem has
been overlapping jurisdictional authority.
Under current ERISA provisions, the De-
partments of Treasury and Labor both
have authority to issue regulations and de-
cisions.
This dual jurisdiction has delayed a
good many important rulings and, more
importantly, produced bureaucratic run-
arounds and burdensome reporting re-
quirements.
The new plan will significantly reduce
these problems. In addition, both Depart-
ments are trying to cut red tape and
paperwork, to eliminate unnecessary re-
porting requirements, and to streamline
forms wherever possible.
Both Departments have already made
considerable progress, and both will con-
tinue the effort to simplify their rules and
their forms.
The Reorganization Plan is the most
significant result of their joint effort to
modify and simplify ERISA. It will elimi-
nate most of the jurisdictional overlap
between Treasury and Labor by making
the following changes:
1) Treasury will have statutory au-
thority for minimum standards. The new
plan puts all responsibility for funding,
participation, and vesting of benefit rights
in the Department of Treasury. These
standards are necessary to ensure that em-
ployee benefit plans are adequately
funded and that all beneficiary rights are
protected. Treasury is the most appro-
priate Department to administer these
provisions; however, Labor will continue
to have veto power over Treasury deci-
sions that significantly affect collectively
bargained plans.
2) Labor will have statutory authority
for fiduciary obligations. ERISA pro-
hibits transactions in which self-interest
1401
