July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the future, pending the passage by the
Congress of a comprehensive energy pro-
posal. But when that is passed, I think
you would see clearly that the strongest
shift has been to adequate rate structure,
which reduces a dependence on the
scarcer forms of energy, the shift toward
coal, the conservation brought about by
more efficient automobiles and encour-
agement through tax measures of con-
servation matters and the shift away from
oil and gas and an enhancement of the
use of solar power in all its derivative
forms.
HUMAN RIGHTS
that our country has done since I've been
in office, the most profoundly important
is our insistence upon the preservation of
human rights. It permeates almost every
aspect of our Government. And I think
it has the strong support of the American
people.
So, in all its forms, political freedom,
an absence of persecution, the release of
long-held prisoners, a shift toward the
democratic expression of opinion by the
populace, those kinds of freedoms are im-
portant to us, also the freedom from
hunger and ability to have adequate
health care and education. So, human
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you in the rights will continue to be a cornerstone
Spanish language?
THE PRESIDENT. Sí.
Q. Cuales son los siguientes pasos de su
administracion respecto a la politica de
derechos humanos en Latino America?
THE PRESIDENT. Bueno. El sujeto de
derechos humanos es muy importante
para nosotros. En el futuro será un pro-
grama de nuestro gobierno sin cesar.
Let me speak in English. It might be
easier for the others to understand and
also for me, too.
The question, if I understand it right,
was in the future, what will be our Gov-
ernment action or program for the con-
tinuation of effort on human rights. And
I replied that human rights is a very im-
portant subject for us, and in the future,
we will continue with the program of
enhancing human rights.
In many parts of the world, this has
become a burning issue, perhaps even
more intense interest focused upon it than
in the United States. Latin America,
Caribbean, is one area. I met with the
leader of the opposition parties in the
Federal Republic of Germany just be-
fore lunch, and he said of all the things
of our foreign policy and a deep personal
commitment of mine.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer one
more question, and then if you all don't
mind, I'd like to get a personal photo-
graph with each one of you. We won't
have time for conversation, but if you'd
come by we'll have-
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, in the ongoing battle
with inflation, are you discouraged about
the progress that we're making against
inflation, and do you think that we can in
fact stop this runaway inflation and not
have a recession or a depression?
THE PRESIDENT. I am discouraged
about inflationary pressures. I think if
you would remember back just 12 months
ago or more, the overriding domestic con-
cern by the Congress, by me, and most
others, was the unemployment rate,
which was very high at that time.
Since I've been in office, we've cut
down the unemployment rate substan-
tially, about 2 percent, and we've added
a net increase of 52 million jobs in our
country. But lately, we've had an increase
1232
