Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rounding areas, and bring them to a table
to talk about the differences and try to
resolve them.
I believe that this is the best approach.
And, as I say, we are not wedded to a par-
ticular plan, although I think that the
Anglo-American plan, so-called, has been
accepted in its basic elements by all the
frontline Presidents and, on occasion, ma-
jor parts of it by the Smith internal
group
and also the patriotic front. It's a good
basis for negotiation.
So, we're doing the best we can to end
the bloodshed and to bring peace without
any tendency to force people to come to a
certain place or to force people even to
accept the elements of the settlement that
we think are best.
FEDERAL BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, there was a time
when you spoke of a balanced Federal
budget by 1981, and now the Senate is
talking of that as a factor in whether or
not there would be a gigantic tax cut. If
and when do you ever see a balanced Fed-
eral budget, and how important is that
any more as a long-range consideration?
THE PRESIDENT. I still have a balanced
budget as a goal, an important goal. You
have to judge very carefully how much
you can reduce taxes, which takes money
away from the Federal Government that
it could use to balance a budget on the one
hand, and how much that tax reduction
would stimulate the economy to bring in
additional revenues at a lower tax rate.
I've been trying to bring the Federal
deficit down. As I've said many times,
when I was running for President in 1976,
the deficit was $66 billion. The Congress
is very likely to pass a budget this year of
about $38 billion deficit. So, we've cut
down the deficit $28 billion already, in
just 2 years. And I would hope that this
trend would continue downward. The
1980 budget deficit, I hope, would be even
less you can't predict what the eco-
nomic forces will be-and then the fol-
lowing year, I hope to get it down further.
I would certainly like to have a bal-
anced budget, but it depends to a great
degree on the strength of the economy and
what tax reductions we give. By the end
of this year, if things go well on the tax
bill, we will have reduced taxes on the
American people $25 billion. Had we not
given a tax reduction, of course that would
be additional revenue to help balance the
budget. So, you have to balance the budget
itself on one hand, how much deficit you
have, against tax reductions to the people
to keep jobs available and the economy
growing. That's a very difficult thing to
do. We are just doing the best we can. It's
unpredictable what will occur.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about the future of the dollar, sir. Do you
feel that the inflationary-anti-inflation-
ary steps that you plan to take after Con-
gress leaves, combined with making good
on the pledges at Bonn which would occur
if Congress acts on your energy plan,
would that in sum be sufficient to turn the
dollar around, or do you feel you have to
do more than that in order to stem the ero-
sion of the value of the dollar against
other currencies?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you have to do
more than any two particular items. I
think the most important thing the Con-
gress can do is to pass an energy package
to give us an identifiable American energy
policy. I think this would restore confi-
dence in our Government, confidence in
our people-more than anything I can
think of, among foreign nations who trade
with us and who trade in our currency
and therefore cause it sometimes to go
down in an unwarranted degree.
1752
