Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 30
do you believe the 1962 understandings
with the Soviet Union have been violated?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been
MIG-23's in Cuba for a long time. There
is a model of the MIG-23 that's been
introduced there late last spring which
we have been observing since that time.
We would consider it to be a very seri-
ous development if the Soviet Union vio-
lated the 1962 agreement. When we have
interrogated the Soviet Union through
diplomatic channels, they have assured us
that no shipments of weapons to the
Cubans have or will violate the terms of
the 1962 agreement. We will monitor their
compliance with this agreement very care-
fully, which we have been doing in the
past, both as to the quality of weapons
sent there and the quantity of weapons
sent there, to be sure that there is no
offensive threat to the United States pos-
sible from Cuba.
I might add that we have no evidence
at all, no allegation that atomic weapons
are present in Cuba.
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, is there any reason
that you feel that the Shah is justifiably
in trouble with his people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the
Shah understands the situation in Iran
very clearly and the reasons for some of
the problems that he has experienced re-
cently. He has moved forcefully and ag-
gressively in changing some of the ancient
religious customs of Iran, for instance,
and some of the more conservative or
traditional religious leaders deplore this
change substantially. Others of the Iran-
ian citizens who are in the middle class,
who have a new prosperity brought about
by enhanced oil prices and extra income
coming into the country, I think, feel that
they ought to have a greater share of the
voice in determining the affairs of Iran.
Others believe that the democratization
of Iran ought to proceed more quickly.
The Shah, as you know, has offered the
opposition groups a place in a coalition
government. They have rejected that
offer and demand more complete removal
from the Shah of his authority.
We trust the Shah to maintain stability
in Iran, to continue with the democratiza-
tion process, and also to continue with the
progressive change in the Iranian social
and economic structure. But I don't think
either I or any other national leader could
ever claim that we have never made a
mistake or have never misunderstood the
attitudes of our people. We have confi-
dence in the Shah, we support him and
his efforts to change Iran in a constructive
way, moving toward democracy and so-
cial progress. And we have confidence in
the Iranian people to make the ultimate
judgments about their own government.
We do not have any intention of inter-
fering in the internal affairs of Iran, and
we do not approve any other nation inter-
fering in the internal affairs of Iran.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Q. The General Accounting Office is
currently working on a report to Congress
criticizing the Department of Energy in-
tensely for failing to follow through with
enforcing some pricing regulations on oil,
and, in particular, failing to follow up
some oil fraud situations in Texas that
GAO says Department of Energy was
aware of 2 or 3 years ago.
What do you think about that, and
what do you intend to do to increase
the Department of Energy's enforcing
actions?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
the particular late development that you
described, if it is a late development. I
2101
