Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 24
whether the private sector will accept-
and act on-the voluntary wage and price
standards I am announcing tonight.
These standards are fair. They are
standards that everyone can follow. If
we do follow them, they will slow prices
down so that wages will not have to chase
prices just to stay even. And they point
the way toward an eventual cure for in-
flation, by removing the pressures that
cause it in the first place.
In the last 10 years, in our attempts to
protect ourselves from inflation we've de-
veloped attitudes and habits that actually
keep inflation going once it has begun.
Most companies raise their prices because
they expect costs to rise. Unions call for
large wage settlements because they ex-
pect inflation to continue. Because we ex-
pect it to happen, it does happen; and
once it's started, wages and prices chase
each other up and up. It's like a crowd
standing at a football stadium. No one can
see any better than when everyone is sit-
ting down, but no one is willing to be the
first to sit down.
Except for our lowest paid workers, I'm
asking all employees in this country to
limit total wage increases to a maximum
of 7 percent per year. From tonight on,
every contract signed and every pay raise
granted should meet this standard.
My price limitation will be equally
strict. Our basic target for economy-wide
price increases is 53/4 percent. To reach
this goal, I'm tonight setting a standard
for each firm in the Nation to hold its
price increases at least one-half of one
percentage point below what they aver-
aged during 1976 and 1977.
Of course, we have to take into account
binding commitments already in effect,
which will prevent an absolute adherence
to these standards. But this price standard
is much lower than this year's inflation
rate, and more important, it's less than
the standard for wage increases. That dif-
ference is accounted for by rising produc-
tivity, and it will allow the income of
America's workers to stay ahead of in-
flation.
This is a standard for everyone to fol-
low-everyone. As far as I'm concerned,
every business, every union, every profes-
sional group, every individual in this
country has no excuse not to adhere to
these standards. If we meet these stand-
ards, the real buying power of your pay-
check will rise.
The difficulty with a voluntary pro-
gram is that workers fear that if they co-
operate with the standards while others do
not, then they will suffer if inflation
continues.
To deal with this concern, I will ask
the Congress next January to enact a pro-
gram that workers who observe the stand-
ards would be eligible for a tax rebate if
the inflation rate is more than 7 percent.
In other words, they would have a real
wage insurance policy against inflation
which might be caused by others. This will
give our workers an additional incentive
to observe the program and will remove
their only legitimate reason not to co-
operate.
Because this is not a mandatory con-
trol plan, I cannot stop an irresponsible
corporation from raising its prices or a
selfish group of employees from using its
power to demand excessive wages. But
then if that happens, the Government will
respond, using the tools of Government
authority and public opinion.
Soon after they raise prices or demand
pay increases that are excessive, the com-
pany or the union will feel the pressure
that the public can exert, through new
competition to drive prices down or re-
moval of Government protections and
privileges which they now enjoy.
1843
