Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
And it's expected that the accuracy that
could be contemplated and anticipated at
that time might reach proportions that
would permit them conceivably and theo-
retically and somehow possibly, technical-
ly, to eliminate a very substantial number,
perhaps 75, perhaps 80 percent, perhaps
90 percent of that land-based missile
force. And under that particular fact
situation, there is concern that somehow
we do not have sufficient retaliatory ca-
pability to maintain credible deterrence
against that theoretical threat.
Now, frankly, it's important to keep in
mind that at the present time, the United
States and our strategic nuclear inventory
has 9,200 strategic warheads. The Soviet
Union has 4,500. The bomb that we
dropped at Hiroshima was 13 kilotons.
The smallest bomb we have in our total
inventory of 9,200 strategic nuclear war-
heads today is on the Poseidon submarine,
and it is three times, at least, more power-
ful than Hiroshima.
The Soviet Union has 4,500 strategic
nuclear warheads at the present time. As
Dr. Perry has indicated, their numbers
are likely to increase. But our 9,200 are
spread in the submarines, where they're
survivable in the ocean deep, and in our
bomber force and in our land-based sys-
tems. The Soviets have 70 percent of their
strategic inventory, those 4,500 on land-
based alone.
Now, if you're a Soviet political leader
and someone comes in to you and says,
"Comrade, I suggest today that we fire all
our land-based missiles, that we fire suf-
ficient missiles in our inventory to strike
out maybe 80 to 90 percent of that United
States land-based system." And you say,
"Well, you suggest that?" "Yes." "Well,
will they work? Nothing else in the Soviet
Union works. We've never tested these
and tried. Will they work? Can you con-
fidently tell me that you'll have that de-
gree of accuracy, that they are reliable,
that if we fire them, the President of the
United States, who sees them coming and
has 15 minutes to make the judgment as
to where they are going, whether he will
launch, on warning-will he launch on
warning, the President of the United
States? Will he launch under attack? And
if he does, those 2,500 missiles of ours,
heading for that land-based system, won't
have anything to take out when they get
there, because ours will all be fired.”
Now, if the United States of America
sits back and watches the preparation for
that surprise attack, does nothing, and in
the worst case, accepts that initiated
strike, absorbs it, guess what? In our sub-
marine force and in our submarines, it's
estimated that even if that system works
and they avoid the problems of fratricide,
they still have to contend with what's
left in our land-based system, what's left
in our submarines at sea, what's left in our
bomber force that is off the ground and
airborne. And you know the total inven-
tory that would be left, even under that in-
conceivable, mad folly of that theoretical
attack that the Soviets may theoretically
contemplate but could never confidently
execute? We would have remaining,
available for an assured retaliatory, de-
structive strike on the Soviet Union more
strategic warheads than the Soviet Union
even has today in their total inventory.
So, I think that the threat that we're
talking about is theoretical, and we must
not let these threats by bloodless war gam-
ers and talk about perception force us into
decisions in billions and billions and bil-
lions of dollars of overkill or potentially
stabilizing actions which create a far
less stable international strategic environ-
ment.
Now, we have time to study and resolve
these issues carefully and prudently and
responsibly. Frankly, if we had pushed
2203
