Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
I am also pleased that the Congress has
adopted a liability and compensation sys-
tem for cleanup costs and damages caused
by OCS oil spills which is generally in line
with the more comprehensive legislation
previously proposed by my administra-
tion. However, I continue to urge ex-
peditious congressional action on more
comprehensive legislation (H.R. 6803)
which would appropriately extend cover-
age to virtually all oil pollution in our
coastal and internal waters.
Among the many provisions I fully sup-
port there are a few about which I am
concerned. First, there is a substantial in-
crease in the annual appropriation au-
thorization for coastal energy impact
formula grants to States affected by OCS
activities. While this is an essential pro-
gram and I support it, in the annual ap-
propriation process I will have to care-
fully weigh budget limitations and the
very real needs which do exist in coastal
areas affected by OCS development. Sec-
ond, as outlined in my special message to
Congress of June 21, 1978, I have strong
constitutional and policy objections to the
reservation of authority by the Congress
to veto certain executive branch actions-
in this case, decisions to permit the export
of OCS oil and gas and to utilize lease
bidding systems other than those specific-
ally described in S. 9. I intend to treat
both of these provisions as "report and
wait" requirements.
Aside from these concerns, however, I
applaud the passage of S. 9, which is an
important part of our energy program. I
congratulate all those who contributed to
the passage of this important legislation,
particularly Chairmen Jackson and Mur-
phy and the other members of the Senate
and House committees who helped fashion
this bill. Work began long before I came
into office, but I am proud to participate
in bringing this important effort to a
conclusion.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 9 is Public Law 95-372,
approved September 18.
District of Columbia
Appropriation Act, 1979
Statement on Signing H.R. 13468
Into Law. September 18, 1978
Today I have signed H.R. 13468, which
makes appropriations for the government
of the District of Columbia. This bill ap-
propriates both funds generated locally
by the District and Federal funds for loans
and direct payments to the District.
Congress recently took a historic step
toward granting the citizens of the District
equal standing with other American citi-
zens by approving a proposed constitu-
tional amendment to grant the District
full voting representation in the Congress.
If we are to make equal rights and home
rule a reality for the District, we must also
bring stability and predictability to the
Federal payment process.
The Federal payment is intended to off-
set the effects of the Federal presence on
the District's revenues. As such, it should
be determined on a fair, objective basis
and not arbitrarily changed from year to
year. I favor the establishment of a for-
mula which would consider the various
factors involved in the Federal presence
to determine the appropriate amount of
the payment each year. My administra-
tion is working with the Congress and the
District government to develop such a
formula.
In signing this appropriations bill, I
wish to reaffirm my commitment to the
1531
