Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 29
tions, established in Section 18 of this
Order; and
(2) prescribe regulations needed to ad-
minister his functions under this Order.
"(c) In any matter arising under para-
graph (b) of this Section, the Assistant
Secretary may require a labor organiza-
tion to cease and desist from violations
of this Order and require it to take such
affirmative action as he considers appro-
priate to effectuate the policies of this
Order.
“(d) In performing the duties imposed
on them by this section, the General
Counsel and the Assistant Secretary may
request and use the services and assist-
ance of employees of other agencies in
accordance with Section 1 of the Act of
March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1084, as
amended; 31 U.S.C. 686).".
8. Section 9 is amended:
(a) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council" in the first
sentence of subsection (a); and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the words "Assistant Secretary"
in subsection (c).
9. Section 10 is amended:
(a) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the words "Assistant Secretary"
in the last sentence of subsection (b); and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the words "Assistant Secretary"
and the word "it" for the word "him",
in the first sentence of subsection (d).
10. Section 11 is amended:
(a) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council in paragraph
sentence of subsection (a); and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council" in paragraph
(4) of subsection (c).
11. Section 11(d) is revoked.
12. Section 13 is amended:
(a) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council" in the third
sentence of subsection (b); and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the words "Assistant Secretary"
in the first and second sentence of sub-
section (d).
13. Section 19(d) is amended by sub-
stituting the word "Authority" for the
words "Assistant Secretary" in the last
sentence.
14. Section 21(a) is amended by sub-
stituting the words "Office of Personnel
Management" for the words "Civil Serv-
ice Commission" in the second sentence.
15. Section 22 is amended:
(a) by substituting the words "Office
of Personnel Management" for the words
"Civil Service Commission" in the first
sentence and
(b) by substituting the words "Merit
Systems Protection Board" for the words
"Civil Service Commission" in the second
and third sentences.
16. Section 25(a) is amended:
(a) by substituting the words "Office
of Personnel Management" for the words
"Civil Service Commission" in the first,
second and third sentences; and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council" in the third
sentence.
17. Section 25 (b) is amended by sub-
stituting the words "Office of Personnel
Management" for the words "Depart-
ment of Labor and Civil Service Com-
mission.".
2-4. General Provisions.
2-401. Study and Report Provisions.
The Director of the Office of Personnel
Management is directed to conduct a
study of Executive orders listed in Section
2-101(a) and (b) and to coordinate the
study with such other agencies as may be
named in or affected by these orders. The
2299
