Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the labor unions representing steelwork-
ers and the steel executives as well.
We've seen this problem turn around.
We've had a net increase of 24,000 steel-
workers in the last year. Domestic distri-
bution of American steel has increased 5
percent. Exports from Japan have ac-
tually gone down in steel. Profits have
gone up enormously. The second quarter
profits in the steel industry this year com-
pared to last year are up 71 percent, which
means that the industry is now strong
enough to begin reinvesting those profits
in modernization plans to provide jobs in
the future for a basic industry that's im-
portant to us all. These are the kind of
things that we are trying to do in the steel
industry.
In some areas we've had special prob-
lems. One of my worst concerns is in
Youngstown, Ohio, where we do have a
serious problem.
I can't order the free enterprise system
to accommodate change or to prevent
change occurring. But we do need to have
a partnership evolve between the local
government, like in Youngstown, the
State government in the Columbus state-
house, and Washington, to make sure that
the damage done to the people who live
there is minimal. We do not have that
kind of cooperation with the Ohio State
government. We need people there who
can work in harmony with us, to make
sure that we do have changes made to cor-
rect this deficiency.
The last problem I'd like to point out to
you is one that perhaps is of most interest
to me, except maybe the military, where
I had my professional career planned.
When I first went home from the Navy,
I was appointed to the Sumter County
Library Board. Later, I became a member
of the Sumter County Board of Educa-
tion. I was dismayed at the low quality of
our schools, and I ran for the Georgia
Senate because of my hopes that Georgia
could have a better system of education.
When I got there, I had one request-
that I be put on the education committee.
And later, I became chairman of one
of the most important committees in
education.
I ran for Governor on a platform of
better education for Georgia children, and
I was elected. And I would say that 25
percent of my time as Governor was de-
voted to improving the educational sys-
tem in our State.
You have a State that's blessed with
great material wealth, people who believe
and always have believed in a better fu-
ture than the past was. But in this State
there is a very embarrassing situation that
doesn't occur anywhere else in our Nation,
so far as I know. When children whom
you love and whom I love don't have a
stable, adequately financed, open school
system, to me that's a devastating reflec-
tion on the leadership in your State. And
I hope that you can do something about
that on November 7 and elect State offi-
cials, particularly a Governor who cares
about schoolchildren, as you and I care
so deeply ourselves.
Well, I'm thankful that you would let
me come here today and tonight and talk
about a few things that are on my mind.
I feel that we're part of a team. In the
past, that was demonstrated to my bene-
fit because I became President, elected to
the highest office in our land. But my
performance there is only as good as your
support while I serve.
There's a good harmony that exists be-
tween myself and those men and women
on this stage. And I believe that together
we can correct the problems that we still
face, answer the difficult questions, and
face the future with the confidence that
our Nation's strength deserves.
I'm proud to be a Democrat. I'm proud
to represent a party and a country that's
always maintained its ideals intact.
1626
