Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 20
man in high school, I was very small for
my age, very timid, and I would say that
my career that led up to the Presidency
of our great country began in the Plains
FFA chapter.
I learned how to cut a rafter and how
to repair a tractor, how to plant an acre
of peanuts. [Laughter] I learned how to
judge a good hog or dairy cow. I learned
how to be a leader in a small group which
was highly competitive. I learned how to
make a speech. And I learned how to
broaden my area of personal interest be-
yond the confines of my own family and
my own farm and my own community.
The Future Farmers have meant a lot
to me. I went off to the Navy, and when
I came home, my small business, that
didn't make much money, sponsored
every year a trip to Kansas City for the
outstanding FFA member of the Plains
chapter. We've done it ever since.
And as I prepared for this meeting
with you, I thought about how closely
interrelated my present duties are with
responsibilities that you share with me.
You've already proven your leadership
capabilities. Your personal characteris-
tics and attitudes have been assessed by
other members of FFA. They've shown
that they have confidence in you to lead
them as I lead this country and to repre-
sent in your own life their own aspira-
tions and the values that they hold dear.
I just came back from a trip to Europe.
I rode through the beautiful fields of
West Germany and saw their grain crop;
barley is being harvested now. They have
an excellent wheat, oat crop; sugar beets
are grown in that area. And I discussed
with the other leaders of the major dem-
ocratic industrialized countries common
problems. Every one is a responsibility of
your own. One of the major considera-
tions is employment, the control of infla-
tion, an end to the waste of energy, more
efficient operations, the removal of ob-
stacles to trade. And the most difficult
single negotiating point in the multilat-
eral trade negotiations is agricultural
products.
We have an advantage over every other
country on Earth-many, of course, but
one that comes to mind, the one that is
uniformly and universally recognized is
in the production of
of agricultural
products.
We love our land, and part even of our
religious conviction is that we should be
good stewards of it. We are proud of what
we've accomplished, and although we do
have some close interrelationships between
government and the agricultural commu-
nity, farmers and those associated with
agriculture have always prided ourselves
our own independence, our duty, and our
eagerness to stand on our own feet, to
make our own decisions, to be individuals,
to cooperate with our neighbors, and be-
cause of the vicissitudes and uncertainties
of the weather, to have confidence in the
future. And when we are discouraged
with drought or poor harvest or low prices,
we always look to the next year, and we're
not afraid. We believe in our country, and
this is a characteristic that binds me
closely with you.
I might add one other point. I've been
in office now for 18 months, almost ex-
actly 18 months. There's been a tremen-
dous resurgence in the viability of Ameri-
can agriculture, the prosperity of farmers.
Prices are up, family income is up to an
extraordinary degree. Prosperity exists in
our agricultural regions now. This is a
good year, apparently.
Last year we set an alltime record on
agricultural exports. This year we will
far exceed that historic record. The rest
of the world is eager for what we grow,
and we meet the needs of American people
as well. So, we have a lot to be thankful
for.
1319
