Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion of this statute. The guidance pro-
vided by the Justice Department should
be helpful in that regard.
4. Antitrust Laws. There are in-
stances in which joint ventures and other
kinds of cooperative arrangements be-
tween American firms are necessary or
desirable to improve our export perform-
ance. The Justice Department has ad-
vised that most such foreign joint ven-
tures would not violate our antitrust laws,
and in many instances would actually
strengthen competition. This is especially
true for one-time joint ventures created
to participate in a single activity, such as
a large construction project. In fact, no
such joint conduct has been challenged
under the antitrust laws in over 20 years.
Nevertheless, many businessmen ap-
parently are uncertain on this point, and
this uncertainty can be a disincentive to
exports. I have, therefore, instructed the
Justice Department, in conjunction with
the Commerce Department, to clarify and
explain the scope of the antitrust laws in
this area, with special emphasis on the
kinds of joint ventures that are unlikely
to raise antitrust problems.
I have also instructed the Justice De-
partment to give expedited treatment to
requests by business firms for guidance on
international antitrust issues under the
Department's Business Review Program.
Finally, I will appoint a business advisory
panel to work with the National Com-
mission for the Review of the Antitrust
Laws.
5. Environmental Reviews. For a
number of years the export community
has faced the uncertainty of whether the
National Environmental Policy Act
(NEPA) requires environmental impact
statements for Federal export licenses,
permits, and approvals.
I will shortly sign an Executive order
which should assist U.S. exports by elim-
inating the present uncertainties concern-
ing the type of environmental reviews
that will be applicable and the Federal
actions relating to exports that will be
affected. The order will make the fol-
lowing export-related clarifications:
-Environmental impact statements
will not be required for Federal export
licenses, permits, approvals, and other
export-related actions that have poten-
tial environmental effects in foreign
countries.
--Export licenses issued by the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Treasury will be
exempt from any environmental reviews
required by the Executive order.
-Abbreviated environmental reviews
will be required only with respect to (1)
nuclear reactors, (2) financing of prod-
ucts and facilities whose toxic effects
create serious public health risks, and (3)
certain Federal actions having a signifi-
cant adverse effect on the environment of
nonparticipating third countries or nat-
ural resources of global importance.
Accordingly, this order will establish
environmental requirements for only a
minor fraction (well below 5 percent) of
the dollar volume of United States ex-
ports. At the same time, it will provide
procedures to define and focus on those ex-
ports which should receive special scrutiny
because of their major environmental im-
pacts abroad. This Executive order will
fairly balance our concern for the environ-
ment with our interest in promoting ex-
ports.
REDUCTION IN FOREIGN TRADE BARRIERS
AND SUBSIDIES
We are also taking important interna-
tional initiatives to improve U.S. export
performance. Trade restrictions imposed
by other countries inhibit our ability to ex-
port. Tariff and especially nontariff bar-
riers restrict our ability to develop new
foreign markets and expand existing ones.
We are now working to eliminate or re-
1634
