Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
Similar efforts are under way in other
parts of the Federal Government. The
Labor Department is attacking the abuses
in the CETA program, and Congress is
helping. The Agriculture Department is
fighting illegal trafficking in food stamps.
At the Small Business Administration and
the General Services Administration, we
are cracking down on fraud and theft. At
the Department of Justice, the prosecu-
tion of fraud within our Government is
now a very high priority.
The headlines generated by these ac-
tivities do not always make pleasant read-
ing, but these headlines are a sign not that
things are getting worse, because corrup-
tion and fraud is being exposed, but that
they are being improved, because we are
determined to continue with that correc-
tion and that exposure.
When I campaigned for the Presidency
for 2 years all through this Nation, I
promised the American people, in re-
sponse to their importunities, a compas-
sionate and a competent government. I've
not swerved from the goal. I did not
underestimate then nor do I underesti-
mate now the difficulties. But our expand-
ing attack on waste and fraud is just one
facet of a long-term effort to improve the
functioning of government, an effort that
began the day that I took office. That ef-
fort has made progress on many fronts.
I've used the appointment power to
place the best people I could find at the
top of the departments and the regula-
tory agencies-reform-minded leaders
who are free of the conventional ortho-
doxies about regulation and administra-
tion.
I've embarked on reorganization of the
Federal Government, this, as a top pri-
ority, to eliminate the waste caused by
duplication and bureaucratic overlap.
I submitted, as you know, and the
Congress passed the first sweeping reform
of the civil service system in its century-
long history. This civil service reform
gives the departments and agencies a
chance to strengthen their total manage-
ment systems. It gives us the ability to deal
firmly with those few who are dishonest
or incompetent, and it increases the re-
wards for the vast majority who are effi-
cient and effective and properly account-
able. It's a major step toward building
a Federal work force dedicated through-
out their normal day's work to compe-
tence and integrity at every level.
A year ago, we instituted a program of
special recognition for Federal employees
at all levels. And we suggested improve-
ments in their lives if they made improve-
ments in doing their government work if
their suggestions produced savings of
$5,000 or more. We expected good re-
sults, but the results have been astound-
ing. In 1 year, 1,380 people in 29 depart-
ments and agencies contributed improve-
ments that brought savings already of
$210 million-more than the total aver-
age income taxes of more than 95,000
American families. These results show
that good management and effective use
of incentives are as effective in reducing
waste and fraud as are enforcement and
punishment.
The civil service act provides greatly
increased cash awards in itself, both from
agencies and from the President, for em-
ployees who make significant suggestions,
improve government operations, reduce
paperwork, or perform special acts or
services in the public interest.
We've waded into the thicket of point-
less redtape and regulations that waste
the time of citizens and of State and local
officials. For example, we inherited more
than 1,700 separate planning programs
and requirements in various grant and
aid programs. We are chopping away at
these overlapping requirements and have
eliminated or consolidated already more
than 300 of them just in the last
year.
2231
