Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I will get out of the Sinai if you'll let me
get out of Camp David.” And perhaps if
we shut them up long enough, we might.
[Laughter]
We are now planning another step that
will be a tough, strong step in controlling
inflation. That will be revealed as soon
as the final decisions are made on it. That
will be, I think, almost all we can do with-
in the present statutory bounds. I'm not
in favor of mandatory price and wage con-
trols, and I don't have any intention of
putting them in unless our country reaches
an extreme emergency, certainly not any
prospect of that at all.
I believe that the international unions
will be receptive to a fair and balanced
inflation control policy if they feel that
others will share the burden with them.
And I think it's accurate to say that this is
such a wide-ranging question, with many
culprits, including Presidents and Con-
gresses, including private citizens who are
just homeowners and through purchasing
practices encourage inflation, including
the employees and employers, those
who set prices, those who determine pro-
tectionist import policies, that there has
to be a general sense that in the entire
package of inflation control that it's bal-
anced, that there are no special sacrificial
lambs, but that everyone is making an
equal sacrifice. That's my responsibility.
And I think it would be a mistake to try
to blame it, for instance, on a single ele-
ment in that group, like labor.
I have talked privately, and in some in-
stances publicly, including this week, with
large labor groups. And as you well know,
when I speak to a convention of farmers
or teachers or lawyers or steelworkers or
other labor organizations, they are first
and foremost Americans. They are people
who have families who have to go to the
store themselves, who are trying to put
their kids through school or through col-
lege. They're trying to buy a house or pay
for a car. And they are intensely con-
cerned about inflation, and I think the
fact is that recent polls have shown that
even among union members, they would
be willing to forgo any wage increase if
they felt that inflation could be controlled.
And I think the balancing of that pack-
age is a difficult thing, but my responsi-
bility. Had it not been for my 2 weeks'
vacation [laughter]-I would have al-
ready issued these new points to the pub-
lic. But I'll do that very quickly.
MINNESOTA DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Q. Mr. President, Congressman Fraser
just lost the primary election in Minne-
sota, and there's a better than an even
chance that the Republican will win the
Senate seat in the November election.
And one of the national news magazines
has said that Senator Wendell Anderson
will also lose that seat to a Republican.
That would be quite a switch for Minne-
sota.
Do you see that as a trend in the fu-
ture, and do you plan to campaign in
Minnesota?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't see it as a
trend in the future.
Ordinarily, when a President has served
for 2 years in a term, even though his
popularity in the polls might be extremely
high, we've had a 30- to 40-seat loss in the
House, for instance. And my guess is that
the Congress and I have worked harmoni-
ously enough and that this will be real-
ized, as the Congress Members get down
to the last few days or weeks of their cam-
paigning, by the public, that the change
will be much less than that. And I feel
good about it.
I think also there has been an extra-
ordinary circumstance in Minnesota, per-
haps unprecedented, where I think every
statewide office is up for election, and
where the death of Senator Humphrey
has created confusion. And as you know,
1592
