Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a cooperative attitude with us. The
influence that you can exert person-
ally can spread like waves on a pond
to include others and to get them brought
up into a realization of the tremendous
benefits to be derived for our country
with an objective and enlightened control
and reduction of inflationary pressures.
I think it's obvious that there is no need
for us to reduce the quality of services.
This is not an incompatibility with what
I've just described. We've been success-
ful in the last 2 years in having the needs
of our people met and, at the same time,
having substantially reduced waste, pro-
moted efficiency, cut the deficits all at the
same time. We've provided for our coun-
try's defense as never before in history.
And I think we've had a sustained level
of the production of housing units for our
people, increased allocation of funds for
public recreation areas, education,
health, social benefits that have brought
credit to our administration. And that
can obviously continue in the future as it
has in the past. But the delivery of ser-
vices must be more efficient and the
assessment through zero-base budgeting
techniques and through your own analy-
ses of the priority allocation of limited
Federal funds must be more intensely
focused.
We've got a good opportunity through
our reorganization efforts, which have
been approved by the Congress, through
the new civil service reform legislation,
which gives us an additional opportunity
for professional public servants to expend
their efforts and energies more effectively,
to make sure that we can deliver services
even better than we have in the past.
I'd like to touch on another very sensi-
tive subject, and that is fraud and corrup-
tion. In the last number of years, cer-
tainly not just since we've been in office,
there have been embarrassing revelations
of violation of regulation, violations of
ethics, even violations of the law. Several
people have been indicted within the last
few months. Other investigations on a
preliminary basis have already revealed
practices that bring shame to our Gov-
ernment. I recognize as accurately as you
that this is a very tiny minority in the
Government, perhaps even a lower por-
tion than would be the case in an aver-
age nongovernmental organization.
But we have an additional responsibil-
ity to root these kinds of practices out on
our own initiative. It's not enough for
the Administrator of the General Services
Administration, working with the Attor-
ney General, to try to reveal and correct.
and, secondarily, to punish those who are
culpable.
But the devastating impact of this kind
of revelation on the honest and sincere,
dedicated, competent public employee is
the most serious consequence of fraudu-
lent practices. All of you remember
clearly and vividly-in fact, the entire
world remembers the reflection that was
brought on the White House itself by the
Watergate revelations and how the CIA
is just struggling to overcome the adverse
publicity brought to it by revelations of
illegal practices.
But obviously, the White House, the
Cabinet is an entity that deserves to be
respected and honored and the CIA has
the same character of professionalism and
competence and dedication and patriot-
ism that deserves recognition and honor.
The General Services Administration is
the same way. It deserves to be recognized
and honored for its good performance.
The Small Business Administration is
now becoming scrutinized much more
closely. As you know, recently, legislation
was passed for the establishment of 12
Inspectors General offices, and at the
same time, the GAO has reported that
$4.3 billion in unresolved audit findings
hang over the Federal Government.
2030
