Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 1
reached the threshold of its maturity. It
began 21 years ago this week with the
launching of Sputnik I. That remarkable
achievement galvanized our own space ef-
forts. We have met the challenge fully;
indeed, we have gone far beyond that
challenge. And as Americans, we are
proud of these achievements and glad of
the benefits that have been brought to
our Nation and, indeed, to the entire
world.
We speak often of progress. But there's
nothing in scientific and technological ex-
perience to compare with the enormous
leaps we've made in the brief span of the
two decades of the space age. We have
performed what any generation would
have considered miracles. We've taken
the stuff of fantasy and dreams, and we've
turned it into accomplishment and
reality.
The dreams of a few visionaries have
become a part of the everyday life of
hundreds of millions of people. Consider
what we have done in just one quarter
of a human lifetime. We've put men in
orbit around the Earth and around the
Moon. We've put machines in orbit
around the Earth, the Moon, the Sun,
and the planet Mars. We've learned to
maneuver in space, to dock ships together
in space, and even to walk in space. On
board Skylab we've learned to live and
work in a weightless environment for
many weeks at a time.
We've begun the exploration of the
inner planets and the outer planets. Two
American Vikings have been sending
back valuable scientific data from the
surface of Mars for more than 2 years.
Pioneer X has passed Jupiter and is on
its way to interstellar space. It will be the
first tangible product of human hands to
leave the solar system. Its flight time may
turn out to be longer than the life of
civilization that launched it. And of
course, its destination is unknown. But
like the entire effort of space exploration,
it is a striking symbol of human curiosity,
human ingenuity, and the very human de-
sire to communicate with others.
And of course, the greatest event of all:
We went to the surface of the Moon, not
once, but six times. And each time, the
astronauts returned safely to their home
planet, Earth, and to their home country,
the United States of America.
In the 9 years since a man took that one
small step, the giant leap it represented
has almost come to be taken for granted.
Yet, at the outset, many doubted it could
be done at all. And many more doubted
it could be done in so short a time. But
it was done. And it was done magnifi-
cently. The goal was met. And this great
space center is deservedly named for the
man who summoned his fellow citizens to
an extraordinary adventure, President
John F. Kennedy.
We went to the Moon, in part, as a
matter of national pride. But when we got
there, we discovered something very inter-
esting. Through the eyes and the cameras
of the astronauts, we looked back at the
Earth, above the strange horizon of the
Moon in a pitch black sky. We saw our
own world as a single delicate globe of
swirling blue and white, green, brown.
From the perspective of space, our planet
has no national boundaries.
It's very beautiful, but it's also very
fragile. And it is the special responsibility
of the human race to preserve it. Of all
the things we've learned from our explo-
rations of space, none has been more im-
portant than this perception of the essen-
tial unity of our world.
I learned this morning that while I was
at Camp David with President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin, that scientists at
Cal Tech discovered a new miniplanet
whose orbit comes between that of Earth
and that of Mercury. The new miniplanet
has just been named Ra Shalom-Ra
1685
