Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tute "Secretary of Labor" for "each con-
tracting agency" in Section 209 (b) of
Executive Order No. 11246, as amended,
so that Section 209(b) is amended to
read:
"(b) Pursuant to rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, the
Secretary shall make reasonable efforts,
within a reasonable time limitation, to
secure compliance with the contract
provisions of this Order by methods of
conference, conciliation, mediation, and
persuasion before proceedings shall be in-
stituted under subsection (a) (2) of this
Section, or before a contract shall be can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part
under subsection (a) (5) of this Section.".
1-210. In order to reflect the responsi-
bility of the contracting agencies for
prompt compliance with the directions of
the Secretary of Labor, Sections 210 and
211 of Executive Order No. 11246, as
amended, are amended to read:
"Sec. 210. Whenever the Secretary of
Labor makes a determination under Sec-
tion 209, the Secretary shall promptly
shall promptly
notify the appropriate agency. The agency
shall take the action directed by the Secre-
tary and shall report the results of the ac-
tion it has taken to the Secretary of Labor
within such time as the Secretary shall
specify. If the contracting agency fails to
take the action directed within thirty
days, the Secretary may take the action
directly.".
"Sec. 211. If the Secretary of Labor
shall so direct, contracting agencies shall
not enter into contracts with any bidder
or prospective contractor unless the bidder
or prospective contractor has satisfactorily
complied with the provisions of this Or-
der or submits a program for compliance
acceptable to the Secretary of Labor.".
1-211. Section 212 of Executive Order
No. 11246, as amended, is amended to
read:
"Sec. 212. When a contract has been
cancelled or terminated under Section
209(a) (5) or a contractor has been de-
barred from further Government con-
tracts under Section 209(a) (6) of this
Order, because of noncompliance with
the contract provisions specified in Section
202 of this Order, the Secretary of Labor
shall promptly notify the Comptroller
General of the United States.".
1-212. In order to reflect the transfer of
enforcement responsibility to the Secre-
tary of Labor, references to the adminis-
tering department or agency are deleted
in clauses (1), (2), and (3) of Section
301 of Executive Order No. 11246, as
amended, and those clauses are amended
to read:
"(1) to assist and cooperate actively
with the Secretary of Labor in obtaining
the compliance of contractors and sub-
contractors with those contract provisions
and with the rules, regulations and rele-
vant orders of the Secretary, (2) to ob-
tain and to furnish to the Secretary of
Labor such information as the Secretary
may require for the supervision of such
compliance, (3) to carry out sanctions
and penalties for violation of such obliga-
tions imposed upon contractors and sub-
contractors by the Secretary of Labor
pursuant to Part II, Subpart D, of this
Order,".
1-213. In order to reflect the transfer
from the agencies to the Secretary of La-
bor of the enforcement functions "Sec-
retary of Labor " shall be substituted for
"administering department or agency"
in Section 303 of Executive Order No.
11246, as amended, and Section 303 is
amended to read:
"Sec. 303. (a) The Secretary of Labor
shall be responsible for obtaining the
compliance of such applicants with their
undertakings under this Order. Each ad-
ministering department and agency is di-
1716
