Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session at a Breakfast
With Members of the White House
Correspondents Association.
November 16, 1978
PRESS SECRETARY POWELL. Ladies and
gentlemen, let me take a moment to make
sure we understand the groundrules,
which are few, and just a word about
what's involved here.
We thought it might be helpful to
you-and of course we always do things
that we think will be helpful to us-to
provide an opportunity to talk with the
President in a somewhat less formal situ-
ation than the regular news conference.
We plan to have two of these break-
fasts. About half of the people who cover
the White House regularly are here today.
The other half will be invited to another
breakfast within a week or so. The pro-
ceedings will be on the record. We will
provide a transcript as soon as possible,
and there is no embargo on whatever
news you are able to glean from this
gathering.
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know who
wants to recognize the interrogator. But,
Frank [Frank Cormier, Associated Press],
I think I'll start with you and Helen
[Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional] first.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. All right. Mr. President, I'm a lit-
tle curious-I've been away a month and
missed a lot but I wonder if you would
place the goals of defending the dollar
and fighting inflation above what might
be the contradictory goal of political
survival.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. I'll try to an-
swer. I don't think they are contradictory.
There's no doubt that the primary domes-
tic concern of the American people, as
revealed by every poll that I've seen late-
ly, is inflation. I think part of the reason
is that we have made substantial progress
on alleviating the previous number one
concern, which was unemployment. The
latest figures show 5.8 unemployment,
which is a substantial reduction from
roughly 8 percent, when I came into
office.
Also, I think the Congress and I to-
gether have had some very 'constructive
legislation passed concerning transporta-
tion, education, aid to the cities, includ-
ing the employment question, and so
forth.
But I think that to deal now success-
fully with a stable dollar and to level off
the rate of inflation, hopefully to reduce
it in the future, is not only necessary from
a nonpolitical basis but also good politics.
Q. How about when the constituencies
start hollering at you?
THE PRESIDENT. That's difficult, but
it's already a very serious problem. What
I'm trying to do, basically, is to build up
within the consciousness of the Congress
and my own administration a realization
of what Americans demand, and that is
a very sound, fiscally responsible ap-
proach to these special interest demands.
It's much easier for me to have a part-
ner in Congress as legislation and budget
decisions are evolving, rather than for me
to assume the unfortunate posture of
having to veto legislation once it's passed.
And I believe that this would make it eas-
ier for me next year than it has been the
last few days of this year, when I had to
veto several bills that had expectations
built up because the Congress passed
them, which I couldn't accept.
Q. Mr. President, what do you think
of all the scare talk-and I mean scare
talk about not only a recession but a de-
pression, and some of which comes from
2039
