Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 13
can change, by resolution, any previously a million barrels less of foreign oil than
established ratification period.
last year.
I urge the Committee to exercise its au-
thority to extend the ratification deadline
for ERA.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Representative Peter W. Rodino, Jr.,
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
and Representative Don Edwards, chairman
of the committee's Civil and Constitutional
Rights Subcommittee.
The President's Visit to the
Federal Republic of Germany
Remarks on Departure From the White
House. July 13, 1978
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, Amy:
Since this administration assumed of-
fice, it has established no higher foreign
policy priority than the closest possible
working relationship between the indus-
trial democracies of Western Europe and
Japan. The International Economic Sum-
mit Conference in Bonn is a part of that
effort.
Since assuming office we have made
substantial progress in assuming our share
of the international economic burdens. In
the past year and a half, we have added
more jobs to the work force in America,
6.1 million jobs, than in any other period
in the history of the United States.
In the energy field we are well along the
way in establishing a basic and profound
change in America's energy approach. We
have established a Department of Energy.
We have made substantial progress in the
adoption of the most comprehensive and
profound energy package ever proposed
to the Congress. And this year we will use
The President will also be visiting Ber-
lin to renew personally on behalf of the
American people our friendship and our
commitment to the free people of Berlin.
Mr. President, on your mission you
take with you our hopes for success and
our love, and we hope a speedy return.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. We leave this morn-
ing for two trips combined into one. The
first will be an official visit by me repre-
senting the United States to the people
of the Federal Republic of Germany-
this visit will last 2 days-to be followed
by the fourth economic summit con-
ducted by the leaders of the seven indus-
trialized democracies.
On this journey I recognize the eco-
nomic interdependence of the people of
the world. And I also understand that
in the free democracies, that we must
demonstrate and we can demonstrate the
strength, the vitality, and the cooperation
that has existed among us and has been
the foundation for our progress.
It's almost a cliche to say that the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany has performed
an economic miracle in rising from the
devastation of war to one of the leading
industrial economic nations of the world.
This is, of course, attributable to the
tenacity and courage and the industrious
nature of the German people. But it's
also a tribute to the fact that they are
free and that they function under the
terms of a democratic society.
We demonstrated this in our own coun-
try when, because of the freedom of the
human spirit, we were able to change a
wilderness into a nation which is now a
world leader. The Federal Republic
shows that same freedom of the human
spirit, a dedication to liberty, to indi-
vidual human rights, and they have re-
built their country when their industrial
1267
