Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ton, and I've tried to think about the
staff person that could easiest be spared.
If you have any suggestions for me-
[laughter]
Q. You can take Jody?
The President.—I'd appreciate it.
That sounds like a good suggestion.
QUESTIONS
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, we appreciate this
breakfast, and I'd like to ask a question
that I might not pose at a broader meet-
ing. As a former Democratic Member of
the House who voted for you and who
spent 2 years at our embassy in Iran, I
find it a little difficult to reconcile your
statements about the Shah's concern for
human rights, democracy, and liberali-
zation with the pretty well documented
record of his regime.
I think that those of us who have been
there and I'm going back tonight
could accept your policy a little better
if
you were to postulate it on the broad-
er strategic and energy considerations.
I'm wondering if you could enlighten us
on that, both points, and anything else
on the issue.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try.
There are several basic premises on
which our relationship with Iran is postu-
lated. First of all, our bilateral relation-
ships with Iran have been constructive for
both countries. We consider the Iranian
people's relationship with the West to be
very important. Iran has been a stabiliz-
ing factor around the Persian Gulf. This
stability is valuable in the region. It's val-
uable in the surrounding territory, reach-
ing certainly as far as Israel and the Med-
iterranean, and it's important for world
peace. Iran has been very helpful to us
in economic matters concerning OPEC,
and we have a good and longstanding re-
lationship between Presidents-myself and
my predecessors—and the Shah himself.
The Shah has attempted, in my opin-
ion, while maintaining order in a very
difficult period, to move toward social
liberalization, sometimes directly in con-
flict with the desires of the more tradi-
tional religious leaders, and has on sev-
eral occasions, increasingly, lately, offered
to form coalition governments encom-
passing his political opponents there.
These offers have been rejected.
I don't have any apology to offer for
the difference in human rights values
that our own Nation espouses and those
that have been accomplished by the
Shah in Iran. There have been abuses.
There have been incarcerations of people
without formal charge and trial under
the Shah's government that would not
be acceptable in our own country.
But I think the trend has been, under
the Shah, toward democratic principles
and social liberalization. Some have
thought he moved too fast; some have
thought he has moved not long enough—
not strongly and rapidly enough, rather.
And, of course, there have been instances
when human rights violations have oc-
curred as measured by any objective
standard. But I might hasten to add that
we have those kinds of violations in our
own country as well.
Q. Mr. President, I was going to ask
you about the Shah. Do you think he
could survive now, and how?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I hope
so. This is something that is in the hands
of the people of Iran. We have never
had any intention and don't have any
intention of trying to intercede in the
internal political affairs of Iran.
We primarily want an absence of vio-
lence and bloodshed, and stability. We
personally prefer that the Shah maintain
a major role in the government, but that's
a decision for the Iranian people to make.
2172
