Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 6
rected to cooperate with the Secretary of
Labor and to furnish the Secretary such
information and assistance as the Secre-
tary may require in the performance of
the Secretary's functions under this
Order.".
"(b) In the event an applicant fails
and refuses to comply with the applicant's
undertakings pursuant to this Order, the
Secretary of Labor may, after consulting
with the administering department or
agency, take any or all of the following
actions: (1) direct any administering de-
partment or agency to cancel, terminate,
or suspend in whole or in part the agree-
ment, contract or other arrangement with
such applicant with respect to which the
failure or refusal occurred; (2) direct
any administering department or agency
to refrain from extending any further as-
sistance to the applicant under the pro-
gram with respect to which the failure or
refusal occurred until satisfactory assur-
ance of future compliance has been re-
ceived by the Secretary of Labor from
such applicant; and (3) refer the case to
the Department of Justice or the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
for appropriate law enforcement or other
proceedings.".
"(c) In no case shall action be taken
with respect to an applicant pursuant to
clause (1) or (2) of subsection (b) with-
out notice and opportunity for hearing.".
1-214. Section 401 of Executive Order
No. 11246, as amended, is amended to
read:
may
"Sec. 401. The Secretary of Labor
delegate to any officer, agency, or em-
ployee in the Executive branch of the
Government, any function or duty of the
Secretary under Parts II and III of this
Order.".
1-3. General Provisions.
1–301. The transfers or reassignments
provided by Section 1-1 of this Order
shall take effect at such time or times as
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall determine. The Direc-
tor shall ensure that all such transfers or
reassignments take effect within 60 days.
1-302. The conforming amendments
provided by Section 1-2 of this Order
shall take effect on October 8, 1978; ex-
cept that, with respect to those agencies
identified in Section 1-101 of this Order,
the conforming amendments shall be
effective on the effective date of the
transfer or reassignment of functions as
specified pursuant to Section 1-301 of
this Order.
The White House,
October 5, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:26 a.m., October 6, 1978]
Sikes Act Amendments of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 13745 Into Law.
October 5, 1978
Today I am signing into law H.R.
13745, the Sikes Act Amendments of
1978.
On July 10, 1978, I vetoed an earlier
version of this legislation which would
have more than doubled the 1978 author-
ized funding level under the act and would
have required the Secretaries of the In-
terior, Agriculture, and Defense to explain
Presidential budget requests for less than
the amount authorized.
As stated at that time, I am strongly
committed to the sound management and
conservation of fish and wildlife on public
lands. However, annual appropriations for
these programs must be set in the context
of an effective and efficient overall public
land management program. In my view,
the reporting requirement contained in
1717
