Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
This bill represents a crucial step in
New York's long and difficult climb back
towards solvency and independence, but
its importance goes far beyond the limits
of the five boroughs here. And I would
like to talk for a few minutes about why
I think this important moment is not only
for New York City but for our entire
country.
As President, I am proud of this great-
est of cities. New York has been the Big
Apple for more than two centuries. Back
in 1790, when New York was already the
Nation's largest city, Washington was just
a swamp. New York is still the Nation's
largest city, and Washington-politically,
Washington is emerging from this swamp.
It's a beautiful city, a little bit younger.
No longer, of course, the center of our
Nation's Government, as it was in 1790,
New York is still a cultural and artistic
and financial and diplomatic capital-not
just for the Nation but for the entire
world. For artists and for business execu-
tives, for actresses and for lawyers, for ed-
itors and for scholars, and for just plain
American tourists, New York is a magnet.
In many aspects of life, New York is in-
deed the big leagues.
But there's another side of this city
and to the people who live here. New
York is not just a focus for ambition or
financial achievement; it has long been
a center of compassion as well. New
Yorkers have traditionally reached out for
those who needed help, not only just
here but throughout the Nation and the
world. New York has offered welcome
and sustenance to generation after gen-
eration of newcomers who are looking for
opportunity and for a better life—immi-
grants from abroad and people from the
rural areas of our country.
When people in my part of the United
States needed support for programs like
rural electrification and economic devel-
opment, New Yorkers gave us that sup-
port. That statue in the harbor which we
flew over a few minutes ago holds up her
lamp not for New Yorkers alone but for
all of us.
People in other parts of the country
have sometimes been jealous of the
achievements of New York, and there
were a few around our Nation who were
willing to see the big city taken down a
peg or two. I know how New Yorkers feel
about that. One thing that Southerners
and New Yorkers have in common is that
at times we've both had to deal with re-
gional prejudice.
But in the final analysis, this country
of ours stands together. Those who
thought that the United States was going
to stand by while its greatest city went
under were wrong.
The bill that I will sign today represents
a mutual concern and a spirit of coopera-
tion, the same spirit that our Nation must
bring to bear as we seek to control other
problems-problems such as inflation and
energy and inefficiency in government.
temporary
Let there be no mistake about what this
bill does. It is not a handout-New York
has asked for no handouts and has re-
ceived none-nor is it a Band-Aid or a
temporary approach that simply post-
pones an inevitable problem. Instead,
through long-term loan guarantees, the
bill opens up enough breathing space for
New Yorkers to complete the difficult
task of restoring yourselves to financial
and economic self-sufficiency.
This bill is in the national interest. It's
designed to put behind us a danger that
would create problems for all our cities.
and for the financial markets of the Na-
tion and the world.
If New York keeps its commitments-
and I'm sure it will-then this bill will
not cost the American taxpayers 1 cent.
It will give this great city the security
and the time it needs to bring its budget
into balance permanently. And under the
1398
