Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ployment had more than doubled in the
preceding 8 years. The unemployment
rate stood at 8 percent. I pledged to work
with you to provide jobs for the American
people.
Working together, we have doubled the
number of public service jobs in America
to 725,000. We have tripled Federal sup-
port for public works. We have cut taxes
for working Americans and low-income
Americans by $7 billion last year. A much
larger decrease in taxes will come this
year, so that American people could have
the purchasing power to stimulate demand
for goods, to create jobs for people who
produce those goods. We doubled the size
of the Job Corps. We've passed our Na-
tion's first youth employment bill to re-
duce the tragic unemployment rate among
our young people. And we've already be-
gun to see the results.
We've had a net increase, a net increase
of 6 million new jobs in America, never
before achieved. Last month, the unem-
ployment rate dropped below 6 percent, a
reduction of 25 percent since I've been in
office. In New Jersey, for instance, the un-
employment rate in the last 12 months has
dropped almost 3 percent. I'm proud of
that record. We still have a long way to
go; we have a right to be proud of the
gains we've made.
But the progress that we have made
and the progress that we can make are
both in danger. They all face a threat of
the utmost seriousness-the threat of
inflation.
Inflation strikes at our faith in the fu-
ture. Inflation can wipe out our savings,
and it can destroy your dreams.
Inflation is hardest, though, on those
who have no savings and who lack the
degree of economic power and security
that union membership has brought to
you. Inflation cruelly gouges and cheats
the old and the poor. With inflation at 7
percent, which we have seen for the last
10 years, fixed incomes are cut in half
every 10 years.
When there is inflation, it's often the
Government and unions that get the
blame. That is obviously unfair. But you
and I do share, along with others, of
course, a great responsibility. We must
join together to fight this enemy, infla-
tion. We must join together to help the
Congress resist the special economic in-
terests which behave as if they care
nothing for the common good.
One example is the hospital cost con-
tainment legislation that I submitted ear-
lier this year.
A couple of weeks ago, Speaker Tip
O'Neill came back to Washington from a
weekend in Boston. One of his friends, a
working man, brought him a copy of a
hospital bill which was received by one
of his constituents. The man's little son
was in an accident. He had fallen and
struck his mouth, and four of his front
teeth were driven up into his gum. He
stayed in the hospital 26 hours. His bill
was $2,330.99.
As we all know, those who own and
operate many of our hospitals are the very
ones who decide whether a patient should
be admitted or not, who decide how long
they stay, who decide what treatment they
shall get, who decide how much to charge
for that treatment. Because of this
extraordinary monopoly over a certain as-
pect that's crucial to every American's
life, the cost of hospital care is increas-
ing at twice the rate of inflation in our
country.
Something must be done. This year,
we've not been successful in getting leg-
islation passed which would have per-
mitted hospital costs to go up only 50 per-
cent more than the inflation rate. But
with
your help next year, perhaps we can
be successful in defending the basic rights
1548
