Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
have to reveal it. What we need in a gen-
eral election, though, is Federal financing
of the entire election.
In the President's race, once President
Ford and I were nominated, there was an
amount of money allocated to our cam-
paigns that got all contributors out of the
picture completely. There was just one
mass of contributors, and that's the tax-
payers of the country, and the maximum
contribution that you can make is $1
per year.
That's what we need for the Congress as
well. And these two men standing next
to me are the kind who want to see clean-
ness and decency and honesty and open-
ness brought back into the Government,
so that the only people we represent are
you.
We need someone representing you in
Congress who knows something about
business and management—a small busi-
nessman, understands payrolls, under-
stands how to make employees be pros-
perous and form a partnership with them,
doing work in the graduate school at the
University of Pittsburgh in business man-
agement, knowledgeable about local af-
fairs, county commissioner-7 years?
MR. ATKINSON. 7 years.
THE PRESIDENT. And in 7 years—this is
unbelievable for me; I want you all to
check on it he tells me that they've only
had a 4 mill increase in property taxes
in 7 years under his administration-un-
believable. That shows good knowledge
not only of how local government can
work well but also how to treat people
who trust him and put him in office.
I hope that all of you who have helped
today by coming here to meet with me
and to meet with Gene and Pete will
leave here with another additional com-
mitment. You've not done enough. A fi-
nancial contribution, that helps, but you
can give, many of you, more.
And there's no one here who can't go
back home and raise 10 times as much
as you have contributed in coming here
today. I know you've got 10 friends who
are not here today who would be willing
to give that much to get a good Congress-
man to represent you in Washington.
Also, you are Americans who believe in
our country. And I think it's time for you
to make an investment of time. Many of
you, perhaps, already are. But there's also
no one here who can't go back home and
become, in effect, a campaign manager for
Gene Atkinson, to ask your own family,
your own block, your own neighborhood,
perhaps a whole community, to organize
for him.
When election day comes, you ought to
have a list of several hundred people that
you could call on the telephone, maybe
beginning the night before, and say,
"Would you go out tomorrow and vote
for the next Congressman of the United
States to represent us?" This is the kind
of thing you can do, if you will.
The ones that can help most, of course,
are maybe retired people, because the
Congress takes actions almost every day
that affect your lives. And many of you
are not employed full-time, because you
have reached the retirement age. You can
make 150 telephone calls per day. I have
done it, from my study in Plains, Georgia,
to Iowa, before the first votes took place.
I made 128 long-distance calls from
Plains to get the nomination commitment
in Iowa. So, there's no limit to what you
can do if you're willing. And I hope you'll
be willing, because it's an investment that
you can make in a campaign for a man
that will not only serve you well, but let
me be able better, as President, to serve
you well.
I need him there. He's a personal
friend. I know how he feels about you.
And there's no doubt that if you would
elect and will join me in helping to elect
1618
