Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
this panel were not known before this
enterprise was established tonight. We
have all expressed within our own group
great pleasure at the fact that this is as
open as it is. We have not been quizzed
with respect to our position.
However fortuitously, I am in favor of
the Senior Executive Service, but I am
concerned with the fact that many of my
colleagues in the executive branch view
it with grave apprehension, because they
see it as introducing politics into agencies
and into jobs where politics have not
before been present, and where politics,
in my view, and I think in the view of
most of us, have no place. This is a danger
which would give any of us pause, and I'd
like you to comment on that danger and
to tell us, if you will, how you would seek
to avoid it or overcome it.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give a brief
response, and then ask Scotty Campbell
to add his voice to what I say.
As you know, participation in the Sen-
ior Executive Service is voluntary. And if
someone moves into that category of in-
creased opportunity for service, also in-
creased pay, they can at any time move
back to their previous position at a GS-15
level and have their rights carefully pre-
served. It's an opportunity for increased
service, increased responsibility, increased
influence, and increased reward.
We are very concerned about some of
the abuses that have taken place in the
past with the unwarranted addition of
political appointees that sometimes moved
career public servants to the rear or out
of their jobs which were desirable.
There is no limit now, under the law,
as to how many noncareer appointees can
be put in their jobs by the President. We
have advocated and I think the Congress
will go along with a limit of 10 percent,
which is a very stringent limit, only half
of what was proposed earlier under Presi-
dent Nixon, when he advocated an execu-
tive service.
In addition to that, this new, separate
adjudicatory body, the Merit System Pro-
tection Board, has the responsibility, along
with the special counsel, to comply with
the laws, which will be very stringent,
even requiring heavy penalty, to ensure
that there can be no political abuse.
The law specifically spells out the defi-
nition of what is political abuse. And I
believe that these four things, a 10-per-
cent limit, the new protection board, the
special counsel, and the laws prescribing
prohibition against politics, will give much
greater protection against politics than
presently exists.
Perhaps Scotty Campbell could add an
additional comment to what I've said or
correct if I've made an error.
ALAN K. CAMPBELL. Just a word, Mr.
President, and you indeed made no er-
rors and pointed out the fundamental
characteristics of the Senior Executive
Service, which clearly is a more protected
system in terms of political intrusion than
is the current system; not only because of
the 10-percent limitation, which the Pres-
ident mentioned, but in addition to that,
selection to the Senior Executive Service
will be made by boards that have a ma-
jority of career people on them, awards
for bonuses will be recommended by
boards which have a majority of career
people on them.
It will also open up for career people
movement to jobs as high as executive
level IV's without giving up any loss of
rights to the system. Therefore, we'll not
have this problem of career people who
have served so well being selected for As-
sistant Secretary positions, for example,
on a political basis, and then not being
able to return back to the career service.
So, what we have done here is provided
a kind of high-level executive corps which
will be the top managers of the Federal
1364
