Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
specific about some of the differences
you'd like to discuss?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think so,
because we've not prepared an agenda
yet. But it certainly would not be exclu-
sively limited to SALT. And I think that
any differences we have with the Soviets,
we ought to put them on the table and
discuss them. But the agenda would have
to be worked out jointly with them be-
fore any announcement of it was made.
HOSPITAL COST CONTAINMENT
LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, how are you going
to get hospital cost containment?
THE PRESIDENT. With a very deter-
mined and concerted effort. We were suc-
cessful last session in finally getting it
through the Senate, a fairly good version
of it that would accomplish about 60 per-
cent of what we originally wanted. We
didn't have an adequate interest among
the public in hospital cost containment. I
think we'll have more interest next ses-
sion than we had before. It's obvious that
the hospital industry and the medical in-
dustry will exert their utmost effort to
prevent hospital cost containment being
passed.
I've seen recent news stories about the
very large financial contributions made
to interested Members of Congress. I
think just the revelation of these com-
pletely legal contributions will induce the
entire Congress to say, "Are we respon-
sive to the general public, or are we ex-
cessively concerned with the intense lob-
bying pressure on this legislation?"
I think an open and objective debate
with a full focusing of public attention on
it will enhance our chances of success.
SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS
Q. Mr. President, may I follow up
somewhat on that? You talked about spe-
cial interests here this morning. There is
concern among some political scientists
and observers that one-issue politics and
special-interest politics are sort of taking
over the two-party system, factionalizing
it. Do you share this concern? And do
you feel that some of the Senators who
lost last week perhaps were victims, at
least in part, of one-issue interest groups?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm concerned about
it, and I think some of them who lost
were victims of single-interest groups, or
at least a small combination of interest
groups. The only way to avoid that is to
have the public more deeply involved in
the electoral process, the financing of
elections, and the debate precedent to a
congressional decision.
The best single thing that could be done
in a generic sense is to have public financ-
ing of congressional elections. I think it
worked very well in the Presidential elec-
tion. Certainly the result was obviously
beneficial to our Nation. [Laughter] I
think that everybody who participated in
that Presidential election of 1976-my-
self and also the losers-agreed that the
public financing system worked very well.
It put a limit on a nationwide basis, I
think, of $21 million. And, as you know,
in one unfortunate election in North Car-
olina, a third that much was spent in
one Senatorial election by one candidate.
This is excessive. And so, I think that is
a major step forward.
One of the problems with my first 2
years is that the multiplicity of simulta-
neous issues being addressed often pre-
vented public focusing of attention on a
particular issue. I think that we've
learned in the process. I think we'll be
much more careful in the future of things
that are very important, to have more fo-
cusing of public attention on those im-
portant items.
The Congress, in my opinion, has been
very responsible, and one of the pleasant
2046
