Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 5
I
we'll have a good loan program for to-
bacco in the Federal Government. You
can depend on that.
Let me just add one other point. I've
come here as President of our great coun-
try to learn from you, to share with you
a responsibility for government. I have a
lot of responsibilities on my shoulder, like
you do in your own family or community
circles—a responsibility to hold down in-
flation, a responsibility to prevent exces-
sive Government spending, a responsibil-
ity to cut down unnecessary Government
involvement in the lives of the people
who comprise our private enterprise sys-
tem, a responsibility to maintain the mili-
tary strength of the United States, to
make sure that when other nations look
at us, people from all over the world say,
"What is the United States of America?",
that we can be proud of what they see.
Our Nation is one of great strength.
God has blessed us in many ways-with a
form of government now more than 200
years old, when individual human beings,
no matter how different they might be
from one another, could stand and speak
as they choose, develop those qualities of
individuality and difference that, put to-
gether, give us a strong America. He's
given us good land over which we exercise
stewardship, passing it down to our sons
and daughters and their families to keep
in a productive state. And when I assess
what is the very important differences,
or difference, between our country and
others that's most valuable, where we have
the clearest advantage over all other na-
tions on Earth, it is in the productivity of
our land and the productivity of the
American farmer.
That's something that's not warlike in
nature. It doesn't hurt other people. It
keeps our Nation strong and influential in
a good way, and it helps other people
throughout the world have a better life.
I was concerned when I became Presi-
dent, as a farmer, about farmers. We've
got a good sound administration. Bob
Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture—
he's not a college professor or economist
exercising his theories in the Agriculture
Department in Washington; he's a dirt
farmer. When he came back from the
war, he couldn't make a living at home.
He had to go down to Florida as an itin-
erant farmworker. He went back up to
northern Minnesota and borrowed money
and rented some land and, eventually,
built up a farm in his own family of about
600 acres.
He understands farmers. The Vice
President does, too. And we've tried to set
into progress a program, with the help of
the Members of Congress and the Senate,
that would turn the tide, because I could
see very clearly that unless something was
done, we were faced in this country with
another Hoover Depression for farmers.
Prices were going down; nobody knew
what was going to happen next. Under
the last administration, exports were
turned on and turned off so many times.
that our foreign buyers didn't have any
confidence in American markets.
On the spur of the moment, 32 oil seeds
were cut off from being sold to Japan, in-
cluding soybeans, including peanuts. And
we saw the interruption of corn and
wheat sales to other countries stopped
and started so many times that they not
only began to buy those products in other
countries but other countries began to
produce them. And it took us a long time
to turn that around.
But last year, in 1977, with Bob Berg-
land's leadership, we had the highest level
of farm exports in the history of our coun-
try-$24 billion. And as you know, farm
prices were cheap. That was a lot of tons.
This year, we're going to break that rec-
1391
