Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
who fought and died as well as those who
are missing in action in Southeast Asia
in ceremonies this fall at Arlington
Cemetery.
As for those who did return, our re-
view has found their personal and family
median incomes are substantially higher
than similar-aged non-Veterans, and their
unemployment rates have been lowered.
For the third quarter of 1978, Vietnam-
era Veterans aged 20-34 had a 4.7%
unemployment rate as compared to a
6.7% rate for the third quarter of 1977.
Although rates vary from month to
month, it is fair to say that most Vietnam-
era Veterans have moved into the main-
stream of economic life. Vietnam-era
Veterans are making comparable or better
use of their Veteran benefits than Veter-
ans of previous wars. To date, nearly
65% have utilized their GI Bill benefits,
which is far greater than under the World
War II or Korean programs. We should
not fail to recognize the hard work and
determination that typify most Vietnam-
era Veterans who have been successful
in their military to civilian transition.
But for many Veterans-especially
minority and disadvantaged Veterans-
the transition to civilian life has led to
unemployment, poverty and frustrations.
The key to making our Veterans' pro-
grams successful-and efficient is to tar-
get them carefully on those who continue
to need help. By using our resources more
skillfully and coordinating our efforts
more closely, we can aid those ex-serv-
icemen and women who are most in need
of government assistance.
In my written State of the Union
message to you last January, I indicated
that my Administration would undertake
a government-wide review of the status of
the Vietnam-era Veteran and the pro-
grams designed to serve them. Since that
time, the Veterans Administration, the
Department of Labor, the Department of
Defense, the Department of Justice, the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, the Community Services Admin-
istration, the Council of Economic Ad-
visors, the Office of Management and
Budget, and the Domestic Policy Staff
have reviewed the status of these ex-serv-
icemen and women and have prepared
recommendations for improved govern-
ment performance. On the basis of that
policy review, I have ordered improve-
ments in four areas of Veterans affairs:
• EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
• EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
• OTHER VETERANS SERVICES AND
BENEFITS
• MILITARY STATUS
In order to implement my decisions in
these areas and improve delivery of serv-
ices to veterans, I have established an in-
teragency Veterans Federal Coordinating
Committee, composed of representatives
of eight agencies, operating under the di-
rection of the Executive Office of the
President.
I am also conferring upon the Veterans
Administration the status of a Cabinet
Agency, for the purpose of attending
Cabinet meetings. The Veterans Adminis-
tration is a large and important part of
our government. Its presence at Cabinet
meetings will be useful for other depart-
ments with overlapping responsibilities,
and for the Veterans Administration it-
self, which will have a stronger voice.
To better understand some of the is-
sues that will continue to confront the
Vietnam-era Veteran, I am instituting a
survey of public attitudes toward those
Veterans. This study will help us identify
the real areas of concern, as well as ac-
curately portray the public's overall sup-
port of Veterans' benefit programs
generally.
1738
