July 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that I had to face as President was find- employers, even against the benevolent
ing jobs for American people.
We now have the lowest unemployment
rate since Lyndon Johnson lived in this
house. And in the last year, we have
added more jobs to the American society
than ever before in history, 6½ million
jobs, and we brought the unemployment
rate down to a much more acceptable
figure.
We've got a long way to go. Some of
this improvement has been derived from
government programs, comprehensive
education and training programs, local
public works, and so forth. And at the
beginning, because all kinds of Americans
were unemployed, it had to be focused
upon a broad range of people. But now
that we've brought down the unemploy-
ment rate very low among heads of fami-
lies who are male, either black or white,
we've made good progress in improving
the employment rate among adult women,
both black and white. But we still have
some very severe pockets of unemploy-
ment.
Our young people, in particular, who
belong to minority groups, still suffer
severely. And that concerns me more than
any other group, because I know that in
the formative stages of life, it's crucial
that one realize, “I am a human being,
blessed by God with life, having a certain
level of intelligence and competence and
potential, and I want to use my one life
to my own advantage and to the advan-
tage of those around me."
But when a young person tries to be-
come employed and to use one's talents
and is rebuffed, it creates a discouraged
attitude in that person that sometimes can
be almost permanent. And it not only
makes one feel worthless, in a self-assess-
ment, but it alienates that person from
society, and there's a reaction against
one's family, against the school system,
against law enforcement officials, against
local, State, Federal Government, against
groups that work so hard to provide em-
ployment.
This is what you've come today to try
to address. There is no way that any com-
bination of Federal programs can let our
people know what a wonderful opportu-
nity exists in this country and to let them
know that their lives are significant and
that employment and constructive em-
ployment is possible for them.
And I hope that every one of you, cer-
tainly every group that's here, whether
you come from Hawaii or Utah or
Texas-I don't care which State-I hope
that you will go home and try to evolve
a similar meeting, maybe even larger than
this one, maybe somewhat smaller, based
on what you've derived here today, and
let the spirit of voluntary, effective lead-
ership be utilized to correct the deficien-
cies that do still exist in our country.
We've put forward an urban policy. It's
been almost unanimously acclaimed by
mayors and county officials and State offi-
cials. And the essence of it is a new part-
nership, a partnership between private
citizens and government-sometimes a
difficult bridge to cross-a partnership
between local, State, and Federal Govern-
ment, a partnership between labor and
management, a partnership between peo-
ple who are hungry and those who are
rich, between people that don't have
families and those that have a stable
family life.
And I think the spirit of partnership
is what you represent here today. I'd like
to thank you for being willing to come and
for learning at first hand from one an-
other what a great nation we already
have and with your help and dedication,
how much greater it can be.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:35 p.m. in
the Grand Hall at the White House.
1342
