Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 27
which we can have in the future both full
employment and balanced growth for our
great country.
It's with a great pleasure now that I
sign both these bills into law, and then I
would like to call on a few carefully se-
lected people to make brief remarks.
[Laughter]
[At this point, the President signed the bills.]
I would like to ask Muriel Humphrey
to say a word, if she would.
SENATOR HUMPHREY. Well, I have a
very full heart today, and it's a lot of emo-
tion for me a little difficult for me to
speak. I see many friends, wonderful peo-
ple in the audience here, on stage as well
as in the audience, who have given hours,
years of work towards attaining this bill.
I'm very, very proud to have been a part
of the success that we have obtained for
this bill.
I'm sure that Hubert Humphrey would
have enjoyed the exuberance of this occa-
sion, would have had a very wonderful
speech to say. It's been such a long strug-
gle that some of us have given out, I think,
in talking. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. He would not have
been one of those. [Laughter]
REPRESENTATIVE HAWKINS. I'm quite
sure that as I supported your energy pro-
gram and also looked at the economies in
the White House, I was a little afraid to-
day that you had extended this economy
to these pens. I'm very pleased to know
that you have not done that. [Laughter]
I'm quite sure that when time is settled
and individuals have had an opportunity
to read the Full Employment and Bal-
anced Growth Act, even our critics, they
will begin to agree with some of us that
it really is a modern-day Magna Carta
of economic rights, not between the peo-
Hubert, I think, over the years, felt it ple and an unwise ruler, but a contract
was a very, very great way, it was an ideal
and a goal that he hoped could be accom-
plished. And I think now we're seeing the
result of it. Hubert Humphrey had a good
many times been involved in different bills
that we know about—-the equal rights bills
and some very important ones—but most
of the time, he gave over the honor to
someone else to have his name on those
bills. I think that the Humphrey-Hawkins
bill is the only bill that has the distinction
of having his name, and I must say I
thank everyone. I see so many different
ones that I want to say thank you to, I
don't dare to mention the names-
[laughter]-especially the President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Now I'd like to call on Gus Hawkins.
Representative HAWKINS. Mr. Presi-
dent, and friends-[applause]-the same
to you, thanks.
between the people and a magnificent
President who gave us the assistance
needed to get the bill through.
And I'm quite sure that none of us is so
naive as to believe that this is the end. It
is only a beginning. The bill must be im-
plemented. It is significant today, Mr.
President, that you're signing also the
CETA bill, which begins the implemen-
tation of the full employment act. Those
who have said that the full employment
bill is only a symbol, that it has no pro-
gram, no money, or practically nothing
else in it, I think will be delighted to
know, if not excited, that at least in the
beginning of the implementation of the
full employment act, this, the first bill—
the first step, as Hubert Humphrey would
have said has certainly a program. It
provides, directly, jobs, more than 600,000
directly, and that it has more than $11
billion in it. Now, if that isn't money, then
I'm quite sure it may disturb even you
1873
