Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
partly because of the change of the
physical needs of the amounts and
numbers of people in the Armed Forces,
we'll have to reconsider whether or not
we need a draft system. And I'd like to
have your comments concerning that.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I think
under President Nixon's administration
and with the strong support in the Con-
gress, the voluntary military service system
was put into effect, and the draft was
eliminated. I had some concerns about it
then, but it was a decision made, and we
are living with it well.
I think the allegations that the present
quality of military service personnel is low
are erroneous. The military commanders
with whom I meet regularly, the assess-
ments of performance that are done on a
fairly scientific and objective and accurate
basis show that we do have a very high
level of quality in our armed services.
Sometimes we have coming into the
armed services as volunteers young men
and women who don't have a high
academic background. We have correc-
tive programs in the Armed Forces, as we
did to some degree during wartime, to
bring their educational level up, to take
advantage of the talent that they in-
herently have.
If our country ever should turn back to
a draft system-and this has constantly
been under assessment, ever since the
voluntary system was initiated-I think
Senator Sam Nunn, Senator Stennis, for
instance, have been very interested in as-
sessing whether or not it would be
advisable-it ought to be substantially dif-
ferent from the draft system we had
before.
I never thought it was fair. I thought it
was extremely unfair to give exemptions,
for instance, for all young Americans who
had the financial resources to stay
in college. I think in the future if we
should have a draft system, it ought to
absolutely universal. And if we
have to take a limited number of young
people into the Armed Forces, they ought
to be on drawing lots; and whether some-
body's in college or working on a farm or
relatively illiterate, they ought to be han-
dled in the same, exact way.
Q. Mr. President, wouldn't you feel it's
now the time to have a universal draft
system-
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know about
that.
Q. Since it's peacetime?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the answer is
the same as you suggested and as I gave.
The best thing to do is to constantly as-
sess it. And that is being done. But no
conclusions have yet been reached. And I
think for the President to express an
opinion kind of short circuits the accurate
assessment in which I've not yet been
involved.
Maybe I can stay for 5 minutes; maybe
a short answer.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. I recognize
the delegate to my right.
ENERGY RESEARCH
Q. My name is David Noble from the
17th District in Ohio. And I sincerely
agree with what Senator Culver said, that
the security of this Nation rests on our
economy.
Mr. President, it seems to me that the
fundamental tool of our economy is
energy. Therefore, I would like to know
why we are not making a greater effort
to develop the new energy sources that
are going to be available to us once we
make the tremendous technological effort
that's going to be necessary to do things
like building satellites in space that can
2208
