Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
entirely compatible with the relevant
articles of the International Monetary
Fund, which enjoyed full European con-
fidence and support.
3. Science and Technology. President
Carter and the President of the European
Commission agreed to explore the pos-
sibilities for cooperation between the
United States and the European Com-
munities in research in certain areas of
science and technology. They both strong-
ly felt the need for the United States and
the Community to strengthen their pow-
ers of innovation in this field, while co-
operating with each other and others to
share knowledge and cost to their mutual
advantage. The particular areas they had
in mind are nuclear fusion, management
of radioactive waste, handling and con-
trol of fissile materials, and biological and
medical research, including definition of
standards for use of toxic substances and
definition of carcinogens. President
Carter indicated that the United States
intended to increase its role in strength-
ening the scientific and technological
capacities of developing countries
through the intended Foundation for In-
ternational Technological Cooperation.
Christmas Pageant of Peace
Remarks on Lighting the National Community
Christmas Tree. December 14, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Merry Christmas!
AUDIENCE. Merry Christmas!
THE PRESIDENT. Come on-Merry
Christmas, everybody!
AUDIENCE. Merry Christmas!
THE PRESIDENT. That's better.
As you well know, the theme of this
year's Pageant of Peace is unity. There is
much to divide us in this world. And some-
times we concentrate too much of our
attention on those divisions among us. But
Christmas is a good time to recall how
much unites us as people and also as na-
tions. We are united in our belief in hu-
man dignity, in our conviction that the
most likely way to find the truth is to free
people's minds and consciences, and that
the least likely way to find the truth is to
silence people's voices and to try to make
them deny what they really believe.
Our country is entering a period of heal-
ing and of hope. We are joining together
as a people again, realizing the strength
of a common purpose. We are blessed with
warm fires and warm memories and the
voices of children singing of joy in the
night. I think that God in His great wis-
dom knew that we needed these things to
help us face the cold and sometimes lonely
times. We need the joy of children's voices
to remind us that the only things that we
can truly give to each other are the only
things that we truly need an ear to listen,
a heart to care, a word of encouragement,
and a hand to help.
At Christmas, we have not only this
year's special moments but the rich store
of all Christmases past to remember and
to use.
When I was growing up, President
Franklin Roosevelt was lighting the Na-
tion's Christmas tree. During the difficult
years of the Depression, and later during
the Second World War, too many of our
own Nation's Christmases have been
shadowed by war. We are fortunate as we
light this Christmas tree tonight that our
Nation and most of the nations of the
world are not at war.
This is always a matter of concern, the
threat of violence in many corners of the
globe. But this Christmas is a time of rela-
tive calm and also a time of great hope.
Two ancient enemies are on the threshold
of an agreement that could bring peace
to the Middle East. It is my earnest prayer
that the day will soon come when all
children in the Middle East can play in the
sunshine without fear, when their young
men and women can turn their energies
2246
