Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 2
ested in bringing Jim Williams to Wash-
ington?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me not com-
ment on Jim Williams, because that's one
of the things that I would rather avoid, is
speculating on who might get jobs when
it's all in the formative stage.
When I was first elected President, I
offered Reubin Askew almost any Cab-
inet post that he would like. He's one of
the people that has my unbounded ad-
miration. And he chose then to stay and
fulfill his term in Florida as Governor.
But I have called on him to do several
major jobs since I've been President.
One was to bring order out of chaos in
the selection of top diplomatic officials.
He has personally screened, along with a
very fine committee that he and I chose
together, every group of prospective am-
bassadors, for instance. And I think we've
got an admirable group now because of
Reubin's work.
He will continue on as chairman of that
committee. I asked him to do that re-
cently, and he's agreed to do that. Reubin
has informed me that he does not want
to leave Florida on a full-time basis any-
time in the future.
I might add parenthetically that I don't
contemplate any vacancies in my Cabinet
in the future. I'm well satisfied with the
entire group that I have now.
DEFENSE SPENDING
Q. Mr. President, I'm David Feingold
of National Public Radio Station
Two questions: Is this a simultaneous
campaign to both neutralize anti-SALT
feelings in the Senate and also to create
more bargaining chips in the SALT talks
themselves?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Compared to a
year ago, there's a tenfold increase in the
interest in the budget itself. When I was
preparing the budget for fiscal year 1979,
I very seldom got a question from the
news media about, "What are you going
to propose next January to the Con-
gress?" But now since we are in a pro-
gram of fiscal restraint, trying to control
inflation as one of our top priorities, and
so forth, there's a much more intense
interest in the Appalachian Regional
Commission and defense-level expendi-
tures and others.
This is the same process I went through
last year, to decide what level of increase
we should have in the Defense Depart-
ment. As far as specific programs are
concerned, the M-X missiles, or civil de-
fense, it's the same process as we had last
year.
I have felt for a good while that our
civil defense effort should be reassessed.
We have primarily observed the Soviets'
interest in civil defense, the massive evac-
uation of their major cities, including
Moscow. This causes some concern, that
if we should have a seriously deteriorating
relationship with the Soviet Union, so
that even the prospect of war was extant,
that both sides would want to prepare
themselves to minimize deaths in case a
war should occur. I think this is obvious-
WOSU in Columbus, Ohio. I would likely a very unlikely prospect. But our capa-
to ask a question.
The administration has been directing
a lot of talk both to the public and to
Congress about the 3-percent increase in
defense spending, the M-X cruise mis-
siles, the civil defense plan.
bility in transportation is certainly equal
to or superior to that of the Soviet
Union.
And the fact that we are assessing how
we would go about partial evacuation
of our major cities if war became possibly
2155
