Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
ship role in this major effort. I won't try
to mention them all, but I would like to
mention especially Senator Williams, Sen-
ator Pell, who's here, Congressman Carl
Perkins, Congressman Ford, and others
who have worked in a yeoman fashion to
make this success possible.
I'd also like to thank Joe Califano and
Mary Berry and Commissioner Boyer ยน for
the good work they did on behalf of my
own administration.
The students of America, of all ages,
can benefit greatly from this new legisla-
tion. It encompasses a total of about $12
billion in additional aid focused particu-
larly among those who need it most, from
the pre-elementary grades, all the way up
through college. And I want to express on
behalf of the American people my thanks
to all who have been responsible for mak-
ing this success possible.
Thank you very much, everyone.
[At this point, the President signed the bills.]
I'd like to ask Claiborne Pell if he has
a comment to make. Do you favor the
legislation? [Laughter]
SENATOR PELL. I think it will do exactly
what you say and will mean there's no
reason why any American youngster feels
that he cannot achieve higher education
because of financial reasons, providing he
can cut the mustard and is willing to ex-
tend himself.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Joe, would you like to
comment?
SECRETARY CALIFANO. Mr. President, I
think it makes you a great education Pres-
ident. This is the largest increase in the
history of elementary and secondary edu-
cation aid since the program began, and
for the first time in the history of this
ยน Mary F. Berry, Assistant Secretary for Edu-
cation, and Ernest L. Boyer, Commissioner of
Education, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
country, every single student who can get
into college is eligible for a loan to help
him or her get through college. And I
think that just puts your brand on edu-
cation the way it is in your bones. So, I
think it's great.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Does any-
one else have a comment? Bill?
REPRESENTATIVE FORD. Thank you,
Mr. President. I recall when you an-
nounced the initiative on the higher edu-
cation legislation here at the White House.
There were many people across the coun-
try who said that it was much too ambi-
tious, that it couldn't be done, that the
Congress would not respond well. I think
it speaks very well of your leadership and
the way in which you were able to con-
vince the Congress that the time had come
to make this bold step, that this legislation
you now sign is the largest single infusion
of higher education money for middle-in-
come and working-class families since the
G.I. bill at the end of World War II.
And I agree with Joe Califano. I was
here in 1965, as he was. We thought that
that. This Congress in response to your
we would never again see a Congress like
leadership will
will go down among other
things as a great education Congress, and
your name in the books for all of history
in education is certainly assured.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you for those
comments.
I might say in closing that there's been
a great deal of publicity given to the lack
of
passage, absence of passage of the tui-
tion tax credits. This was a proposal that
I personally did not favor. I think the
Congress acted wisely in this respect. This
provides a much greater benefit to college
students who need it most. It's a carefully
balanced program, and I think the bene-
fits to be derived, compared to the dollars
spent from the Federal Treasury, are
greatly an improvement over what was
proposed as an alternative.
1917
