Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
will reduce oil imports, will expand
exports.
Let there be no doubt in your mind
about how seriously I take these pledges
that have been made on my own word
of honor and on behalf of the people of
the United States. Taken together, they
encompass the most urgent priorities of
my own administration; my own reputa-
tion is at stake as a leader. And they are
commitments that I am most fully deter-
mined to fulfill.
I've come here today to underline that
determination and to describe the next
steps that we will take.
I will soon announce the first phase of
a long-term program to expand American
exports. Removing disincentives to ex-
ports and encouraging exports are over-
riding tasks for my own administration.
As you know, compared to many nations
represented here, the export commitment
has not been as great in our own country
as it has perhaps among some of you.
I've also intensified my efforts, which
were already great, to obtain legislation
that will curtail United States imports of
oil, imports which are entirely too high.
The United States Senate is scheduled
to vote this week, day after tomorrow, on
the key bill, natural gas regulation and
pricing. This is one of the most compli-
cated and difficult and challenging assign-
ments that the United States Congress has
ever faced.
This particular bill is expected to save
1.4 million barrels of imported oil per day
by 1985. I am confident that the Senate
and then the House of Representatives
will do their duty to our Nation by ap-
proving this bill. I hope to have other bills
comprising a strong package of energy
legislation enacted before the Congress
adjourns, probably, hopefully, less than a
month from now.
This is essential, we know, to a sound
American dollar. I intend very shortly to
announce a further series of important
and specific and tough measures to
strengthen our fight against inflation.
These next steps will certainly not be
the end of our effort, only the renewed be-
ginning and commitment, part of a sus-
tained effort to control these very serious
problems for our own people in this coun-
try, and our relationship with your coun-
tries as well.
Every nation represented in this room
understands how difficult this struggle
against inflation is and what sustained
commitment it demands. My administra-
tion will continue that struggle on a wide
variety of fronts until we succeed. There
will be obstacles and objections from spe-
cial interest groups all along the way. But
I will not shrink from the hard decisions
and the persistent efforts that are needed.
I'm determined to maintain a sound
dollar. This is of primary importance to us,
and I know it is of great interest and im-
portance to you as well. We recognize that
our currency plays an international role,
and we accept the responsibilities which
this involves. Our countries are acting to
meet our responsibilities to the system,
consistent with the directives set at the
IMF meeting in Mexico and as was
pledged again by seven of us national lead-
ers at the Bonn summit. The United
States will do the same.
Through programs which I have just
described, we will achieve the strong U.S.
economy and noninflationary U.S. growth
that must underlie a sound dollar and a
stable international monetary system.
The outlook for progress is good. Some
of the causes of our large trade deficit
have already been removed. Others are
now being removed. Our current account
position should improve significantly next
year. The United States will remain an
1628
