Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
And we've had a lot of great music
performers from your city come to enter-
tain us and many others in the White
House since I've been President. The
night before last, my wife and I were on
the telephone talking to June Carter and
also to her husband, as you know, about
the unfortunate loss of Maybelle Carter.
She set not only a standard in country
music that's inspired Johnny Cash and
many others as well as her own family, but
she also set a standard of common, ordi-
nary people who love one another, ex-
pressing their views, their hopes, their
dreams, their fears to the world through
music. And I want to thank you for her.
As June knows, I always claim kinship
with her, particularly after I started run-
ning for office. And that family means a
lot to me and to the rest of the country.
I just want to mention two other peo-
ple. Al Bissell, a great mayor of Oakridge,
has provided us with a standard of lead-
ership at the municipal level, and I pre-
dict that his son, Keith, will do an equal-
ly good job as public service commissioner
next year.
Jay Solomon, a Tennessean, came to
Washington at my request. He didn't
much want to come, but he's a great busi-
nessman from Chattanooga, and he took
over as Administrator of the General
Services Administration, the GSA. And
he's done as much to let us know about
waste and corruption in Government as
anyone. He's fighting the battles for you
to make the Federal Government be bet-
ter, cleaner, more decent, more honest.
He's the kind of fellow who issues the
contracts now after he opens the bids.
And I want to thank Tennessee for giving
me Jay Solomon.
I've really come here today to get you
to work hard for the nominees for Gov-
ernor, United States Senate, State offices,
and the U.S. Congress, whom you have
already chosen in an open, tough,
difficult, closely contested Democratic
primary.
You've chosen a man to come to Wash-
ington with me 2 years ago, who's done
an outstanding job already. And I want
to express my deep thanks to you for send-
ing Jim Sasser to Washington, who has
already carved out for himself a position
of leadership.
One of the most important responsibil-
ities of any Senator is to pass the appro-
priations bills, deciding where money
goes for every possible service the Na-
tional Government provides. Jim Sasser
just happens to be on the Appropriations
Committee. Another important job, of
course, is preparing the budget to cut
down on deficits and to make sure the
Congress toes the line when they spend
your money. It just happens that Jim
Sasser is on the Senate Budget Com-
mittee.
Another important job is to give gov-
ernment reorganization a chance to let us
have a better government. We've passed
now a very fine civil service reform law
to put our good civil servants to work a
little harder for you. It just happens that
Jim Sasser is chairman of the Civil Serv-
ice Reform Committee, and I want to
thank Tennessee for giving me this
strong ally and friend and supporter in
Washington.
I've only got one complaint to make
about Jim Sasser. He's a little too inde-
pendent. [Laughter] When it comes down
to deciding what I want him to do, com-
pared to what Tennessee wants him to
do, he always does what you want him to
do.
Now I want to comment on one man
who's had maybe a more difficult youth
than I had. When I was 14 years old, be-
cause of the TVA and because of the
REA, we got electricity and running wa-
ter in the house I lived in. Jake Butcher
1859
