Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15, 1952. The third law, Public Law
92-603, granted social security credits for
privately employed adults who were con-
fined in World War II internment camps.
All three of these laws were designed as
partial compensation to working-age
Japanese American internees, but they do
not help those who entered Federal serv-
ice after mid-1952. These Federal em-
ployees generally do not qualify for social
security benefits.
H.R. 9471 will cover that group by
granting civil service retirement credit for
periods of confinement after age 18 in
World War II internment camps to any
Japanese American who later entered
Federal service.
This bill represents years of unceasing
effort by many Members of Congress who
wished to redress the injustices suffered by
this unique group of American citizens. Í
am pleased to have the opportunity to
share in that effort today.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9471 is Public Law
95-382, approved September 22.
Reorganization of Federal Audit
and Investigation Functions
Letter to Senator Robert C. Byrd Urging
Action on H.R. 8588. September 22, 1978
To Senator Byrd
urge favorable action at the earliest
possible time on H.R. 8588, a bill to re-
organize and consolidate audit and in-
vestigation functions and to create offices
of Inspector General in twelve major do-
mestic departments and agencies. It is a
reflection of the importance of this legis-
lation that with this Administration's sup-
port, House approval of this bill earlier
this year was nearly unanimous.
The new offices created by the bill will
consolidate existing audit and investiga-
tion resources under the direction of a
single, Presidentially appointed official in
each agency. These offices will be charged
with rooting out fraud, waste, and abuse
in agency programs.
I can assure the Congress that the new
framework established by the bill will be
put to a good and vigorous use. I intend
to nominate people of the highest integ-
rity and ability to head these offices, and
I will instruct my department and agency
heads to support their efforts fully.
We are pleased to have worked with
the Congress, in particular with Senators
Ribicoff and Eagleton, and Representa-
tives Brooks and Fountain, in fashioning
this legislation. The reorganization of au-
dit and investigation activities comple-
ments other initiatives the Administration
has underway to fight fraud and abuse in
Government, including the strong whistle-
blower protection provisions in the civil
service reform bill, and the aggressive in-
vestigations we have launched of alleged
abuses in GSA operations and CETA jobs
programs.
I commend Representatives Fountain
and Brooks, and Senators Eagleton and
Ribicoff for their dedicated work in the
development and refinement of this bill.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Robert C. Byrd, United States
Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
1570
