Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Monument in accordance with applicable Noatak National Monument
laws.
The establishment of this Monument
is subject to valid existing rights, includ-
ing, but not limited to, valid selection
under the Alaska Native Claims Settle-
ment Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.), and under or confirmed in the
Alaska Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note
preceding Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under section 17
(d)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the National Monument shall
be the dominant reservation. Nothing in
Proclamation 4624. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Noatak River basin is the largest.
mountain-ringed river basin in the Na-
tion still virtually unaffected by techno-
logical human activity. This basin has
been designated as a Biosphere Reserve
under the United Nations' auspices, in
recognition of its international impor-
tance for scientific study and research.
The area includes landforms and eco-
logical variations of scientific interest. The
this Proclamation is intended to modify Grand Canyon of the Noatak River is a
or revoke the terms of the Memorandum
of Understanding dated September 1,
1972, entered into between the State of
Alaska and the United States as part of
the negotiated settlement of Alaska v.
Morton, Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska,
Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
Monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this first day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:05 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The attachment and map detailing the
boundaries of the Misty Fiords National Monu-
ment are printed in the FEDEral Register of
December 5, 1978.
dissected valley 65 miles long. The area
contains the northwesternmost fringe of
boreal forest in North America, and is a
transition zone and migration route for
plants and animals between subarctic and
arctic environments. The diversity of the
flora is among the greatest anywhere in
the earth's northern latitudes.
The Noatak Valley area contains a rich
variety of birdlife including several Asian
species. The area is crossed twice a year
by two-thirds of the Western Arctic cari-
bou herd, and is prime habitat for the
barren ground grizzly bear, moose, and
several predator species.
Nearly 200 archeological sites, dating
as far back in time as 5,000 years, are
within the area. They give promise of fu-
ture discoveries leading to a deeper under-
standing of the area's prehistory.
The Noatak basin is an area where in-
digenous plants and animals perpetuate
themselves naturally, in a freely function-
ing ecosystem. Protection of this area will
assure the preservation of an essential
base against which scientists may judge
environmental dynamics of the future.
2136
