Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 13
the West Bank, Gaza Strip. This is some-
thing on which the Egyptians had insisted.
The Israeli Cabinet subsequently met
and adopted the text of the treaty itself.
They did not take any action, therefore
rejecting the accompanying document
which was an integral part of the manda-
tory agreement.
President Sadat then objected strongly
to certain provisions of the treaty text
itself and made public statements that he
could not accept them. I sent Secretary
Vance over to try to resolve this apparent
impasse.
He had very good success in negotiating
with President Sadat. With some possible
change with which I am not familiar,
President Sadat has accepted the text of
the treaty. I don't believe there are any
exceptions. And he has adopted a time
schedule that was originally proposed by
Foreign Minister Dayan himself, that a
goal would be agreed of holding elections
and establishing a self-government in the
West Bank, Gaza by the end of 1979.
Earlier, they had talked about a much
earlier date or even no date. But Sadat
was very generous, in my opinion, in
adopting basically an original Israeli
position.
There is another point that has been at
issue and that is the so-called Article VI of
the treaty, which we called the priority of
obligations. Egypt has longstanding
treaty obligations and other agreements
with other Arab nations. Israel had in-
sisted upon language in the treaty which
clarified the point that the present treaty
would be honored and that these other
agreements did not interfere in effect with
the application or integrity of the treaty
now being negotiated.
They had also asked for additional
language which, to the Egyptians, meant
that all previous treaties would be abro-
gated and that this treaty would be para-
mount over any other treaty, which is
contrary to what any other nation has
ever been asked to do.
That treaty text has remained and has
now been accepted by President Sadat, I
understand. And there will be an ex-
change of letters between us and Sadat,
based on the opinion of international
lawyers and the lawyers at the State De-
partment, about what this particular sec-
tion means. Israel would not be required
to endorse that language.
My understanding from Secretary
Vance is that now the Israelis are reluct-
ant to accept the goal, even, for 1979. And
Secretary Vance will be meeting with
them, since lunch today, after supper their
time I have not had a report from him-
and will be meeting with the Israelis to-
morrow morning, and then will go to see
President Sadat to give him a report on
the Israeli position, and will then return
back to our country.
So, the essence of it is that at noon, the
Egyptians had adopted the treaty text
completely and had adopted our proposal
on the ancillary documents. And my
understanding is that the Israelis have
some problem in accepting those ancillary
documents, including the interpretation
of what Article VI means about the pri-
ority of obligations.
I may have told you more than you
want to know-[laughter]-but that's ba-
sically it. We pray that both nations will
ultimately accept the same documents.
But it is extremely difficult, one of the
most frustrating experiences I have ever
had in my life, to try to negotiate at long
distance through negotiators here who
have limited, sometimes no authority,
with the appeal going to the Prime Min-
ister and then to the Cabinet, or going to
the Cabinet and then to the President,
and with both sides excessively using the
public news media to express their posi-
tions. Because once they say that this is the
Israeli or Egyptian position, it's almost a
2241
