Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
are going to have to sacrifice, and my
responsibility, within the limited author-
ity that I have, is to balance that sacrifice
among the various groups.
No one here can imagine how difficult
the last 2 or 3 weeks have been for me in
the preparation of the 1980 fiscal year
budget. It is a traumatic experience to try
to reach the goal that I very carefully set
for myself of reducing the deficit, impos-
ing restraints from the Federal Govern-
ment level as a needed step and also as a
guide or example for others to emulate.
I will be judged, when the budget is
revealed, as to whether I've done it fairly
and objectively and have met my commit-
ments. I intend to do so. But it is a tight
budget, and there are going to be inevi-
table outcries from those who expect to
continue things as they have been going
in the last few years.
So, I think that the public is fairly
well attuned to, as you say, a pause. At
the same time, I don't believe we're going
to have a recession or a depression. The
rate of growth will certainly be much less
than it has been in the last few years,
when we've had 6 or 7 percent growth
rate.
We have some demonstrations of what
I say. I think anyone who reads the speech
that I made to the National League of
Cities would say that it was a very dis-
appointing-type speech from the perspec-
tive of mayors expecting increased hand-
outs or generous Federal Government
policies in economics. But the response
among the mayors, I think, was very sup-
portive of me, both at the time I was
there and their subsequent comments to
the press.
So, I think that the sacrifice is inevi-
table. It ought to be reasonably shared.
I'm going to persist in setting an example
from the point of view of the Federal
Government to control the deficit. And
when the budget's revealed I think there's
going to be a general conviction among
the American people that the sacrifice
will be imposed as I've described.
Q. Specifically, what you were asked at
that press conference, Mr. President, was
whether or not the American standard of
living was going to have to-the level was
going to have to pause.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the answer to
the question was whether it was going
to-
Q. You said no, that the standard of
living would continue to go up. Can we
really have a successful campaign against
inflation if the American standard of liv-
ing—we are, after all, victims of our own
standard of living-continues to go up?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I
don't want to predict exactly what's going
to happen. My belief is that the Ameri-
can standard of living can continue to go
up, that the standard of living, however,
is not measured simply by the rate of
growth of our national product. I think
the standard of living is determined by
many things: the assurance of peace, sta-
bility, the strength of families, the quality
of education, the enhancement of basic
human rights, harmony among dissident
groups.
This will certainly continue to improve.
I think that we will not have a reces-
sion. We will have a rate of increase of
growth in the national product that will
even include additional economic bene-
fits, but how fast the GNP grows will be
less than it has been in the past.
But I don't think the American people
are looking toward a life that's more dis-
mal or with less hope, nor with less qual-
ity. But if you measure quality only by
how fast someone's income goes up, then
I think there is going to be a difference
in the future, compared to what it has
been in the past.
I haven't given you a very good an-
swer, but it's the best I can do.
2182
