Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Senator. You know how close the race
might be. And I hope that everyone there
will promise this afternoon before you
leave to put in 15 hours of solid work on
the telephone, with your neighbors, in
your community, at campaign headquar-
ters, to get people to go and vote, and vote
for Maurice Dantin. He'll be a great
United States Senator. I'll certainly be
proud to have him in Washington next
January. And as President, I'm counting
on you to express in a democratic way
your right to control your own govern-
ment.
So, thank you very much for letting me
be part of this wonderful Sunday after-
noon rally for a very fine candidate. Now
our confidence has to be in you. I know
won't let me down. I know you
won't let your party down. I know
won't let your country down. I know
you won't let Maurice Dantin down.
you
you
Good luck. As soon as you adjourn, go
to work.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:15 p.m. from
the tennis courts at Camp David, Md., to the
rally being held in the Main Ballroom at the
Holiday Inn-Medical Center.
Uniformed Services University of
the Health Sciences
Statement on Signing H.R. 13903 Into Law.
November 4, 1978
I am today signing into law H.R. 13903,
because congressional intent is clear that
this bill does not affect my authority to
make recess appointments to the Board of
Regents of the Uniformed Services Uni-
versity of the Health Sciences.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13903 is Public Law
95-589, approved November 4.
The statement was released on November 6.
Solar Photovoltaic Energy
Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 12874 Into Law.
November 4, 1978
I am signing today H.R. 12874, the
Solar Photovoltaic Energy Research, De-
velopment, and Demonstration Act of
1978, a bill that authorizes an aggressive
program of research, development, and
demonstration of solar photovoltaic en-
ergy technologies.
The bill's long-term goal is to make
electricity from photovoltaic systems eco-
nomically
nomically competitive with electricity
from conventional sources. I share that
goal, and in my amended budget for fis-
cal year 1979 I asked the Congress for
$105 million for photovoltaics research.
However, this bill also establishes spe-
cific numerical objectives for the Solar
Photovoltaic Research, Development, and
Demonstration program. These specific
objectives are very optimistic. Technical
and economic obstacles could make it dif-
ficult to meet these goals without massive
Federal investments, or even with such in-
vestment. The Congress recognized that
these objectives may be unrealistic and
specifically provided that the Secretary
should request changes in the goals if ob-
stacles arise. Congress also recognized the
risks involved in premature commerciali-
zation of solar photovoltaic technologies.
It is still too early to concentrate on com-
mercialization of photovoltaics. Photovol-
taic systems hold great promise, but in the
short run we must emphasize research and
development, including fundamental
work on the physical properties of these
systems, so that this promise can be real-
ized.
Therefore, I will not propose to the
Congress that a broad Federal solar pho-
1964
