Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
the last statistics that I have.
So, I'm not trying to evade your ques-
tion. I don't know anything else about it,
and I've almost told you more than I
know about it already. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Petrelli.
EDUCATION
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Mike Brown, and I reside in
Monaca, Pa.
First of all, let me thank you for being
the person who you are and for represent-
ing us the way you've been representing
us since you took office.
Mr. President, you have been a strong
advocate of the department of education.
By creating a separate Cabinet office,
what advantages do you feel would there
be that the HEW can't already do, by
creating another office?
THE PRESIDENT. I was Governor of
Georgia for 4 years and, before that, was
in the Georgia Legislature for two terms
and was the chairman of one of the com-
mittees responsible for education. Prior
to that, for 7 or 8 years, I was on the
local board of education. It's been one of
my primary interests.
When I campaigned around the Nation
for 2 years to become President, that was
one of the issues that was constantly put
forward to me in meetings of this kind—
at first with a much more tiny crowd than
this, later growing in size.
After I became President, it was star-
tling to me that in my regular Cabinet
meetings, where all the issues that are im-
portant to our country are discussed for a
couple of hours on Monday mornings,
that we rarely had come to my own atten-
tion any matter concerning education. I
would say less than 2 percent of my time
or 1 percent is spent on education. And
when it does come up at a Cabinet meet-
ing or directly involving myself, ordinar-
ily it's concerning a lawsuit involving civil
rights or some other aspect of controversy
between the Federal Government and a
State or local board.
I think that the issue of education
should be much more greatly dramatized
and discussed at the Federal level of gov-
ernment. And I think a separate depart-
ment of education would let us go more
deeply into the reasons why we are spend-
ing an ever-increasing amount of money
for education and apparently getting less
results in the actual knowledge and ability
of our students when they graduate from
grammar school or high school.
I don't know the reasons for it. My
own approach to education is fairly old-
fashioned. I think we ought to get back
much more to the basics of education and
make sure that when a child does leave,
for instance, the third grade, that child
can read and write. Many of our young
people can't read and write when they
finish grammar school, and some of them
can't read and write well when they get a
high school diploma. That ought to be
changed.
Another thing that concerns me very
much is that we should have a concen-
trated commitment that even with the
new department of education, that the
Federal Government never gets into the
role of trying to run the local school sys-
tems. That ought to be a decision made
as closely as possible to the control of the
parents themselves.
The essence of it is that in Washington
now, in spite of the fact that we have had,
since I've been in office, the greatest in-
crease in Federal contributions to educa-
tion in history—even including those great
days when Lyndon Johnson put into effect
the Elementary and Secondary Education
1611
