Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
have confidence in the Democratic nomi-
nees to take anything for granted.
You've come here with a generous
heart, with a willingness to help the Dem-
ocratic ticket, and particularly Bob Gra-
ham, financially. That's not enough. He's
being outspent by a great and widening
margin. And the impact of a highly pro-
fessional television campaign and a radio
campaign in the last few days can be a
very dangerous development in a well-
organized political effort.
He needs all the help you can give him.
If you haven't given the limit, I hope
you will do so. If you have and your wife
or husband also have, my plea to you is to
take a checklist of your friends who have
confidence in you, whether they be Dem-
ocrats or Republicans, call and ask them
for an equally generous contribution.
If you were raising money for some
other worthy cause of a benevolent nature,
you would drop your own professional re-
sponsibilities and work for several days or
several weeks in preparation for a highly
publicized fundraising banquet at which
you might possibly be the master of cere-
monies or be recognized there.
Those investments pay rich dividends.
But I can think of no investment that
would pay any more dividends than to
have a continuation of an honest and a
competent gubernatorial administration
in Florida. Things could turn sour in Flor-
ida with the wrong kind of leader, and
your good life could change. And I would
like to ask you the next few days-we only
have 12 days until the campaign is over-
to invest several of those days in being a
campaign manager for Bob Graham.
Call your friends and neighbors, those
who have confidence in you, and ask them
to go and vote and to contribute their
time and finances as well. That's not too
much to ask to make an investment in the
future of your State and your Nation.
I'll do the best I can as President to
represent you well. I have great responsi-
bilities on my shoulders, as you well know.
And one of the greatest sustaining factors
that can encourage a President in times of
potential discouragement or potential fail-
ure is to have a strong Governor on whom
a President can depend.
So, if you believe in the things that I'm
working to achieve, if you're grateful for
the good life that you have here in Florida
now, and you're willing to make an in-
vestment in the future, I hope you'll make
that sacrificial effort the next few days.
The Democratic Party has always been
one of compassion. We've reached our
hands and hearts out to those who were
less fortunate than we. We've stood for the
elimination of racial discrimination, sex
discrimination. We've tried to give people
better jobs, better homes, better educa-
tion, better transportation, a brighter fu-
ture, a strong Nation militarily. We've
stood for peace around the world.
Our motives are above suspicion. We
are a compassionate, concerned party. But
we are also a competent party. You can't
educate a child nor feed a hungry person
nor defend a nation or its principles with
waste, corruption, or inefficiency.
And you again have a man here who's
proven in his own life that he is honest
and he is competent. When you have a
combination of compassion on the one
hand and competence on the other, that's
a combination that's hard to beat.
Nobody can beat Bob Graham Novem-
ber 7 if you help him. Will you help him?
[Applause] If you'll help him, I will, too.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:20 p.m. in
the Jade Promenade Room at the Fontaine-
bleau Hotel.
1870
