Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 21
THE PRESIDENT. I have been con-
cerned about human rights violations in
our own country as well as others. The
Justice Department reassessed the case of
the Wilmington 10 after the Governor
decided the action to be taken this past
year. Now, so far as I know, there is no
legal basis for further action on the case by
the Justice Department.* The attorneys
for the Wilmington 10 have the right to
appeal to the Federal courts on their own
initiative, and I presume that they can,
under a habeas corpus request or some
other. But so far as I have been able to
determine from the position of the Pres-
idency itself, having no direct responsibil-
ity for it, the case is still being considered,
appeals are still permissible under certain
Federal codes, and I believe that the jus-
tice system in our country has worked
well.
plans for the interim administration. This
is intended to facilitate the early return
of 35,000 Greek Cypriot refugees to their
homes and businesses in Varosha.
The President commends this new pro-
posal as a positive and forthcoming step
on the part of the Turkish Cypriots. He
especially welcomes the important new
element in this proposal which will per-
mit the United Nations to supervise the
administration of Varosha. The President
believes it is particularly important that
no time be lost and no effort be spared in
facilitating the return of thousands of ref-
ugees to their homes and in resuming
meaningful negotiations
negotiations under the
United Nations to achieve a Cyprus
settlement.
BROOKS JACKSON [Associated Press]. Public Lands Grazing Fee
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-fifth news con-
ference began at 8 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
The Situation in Cyprus
White House Statement. July 21, 1978
The Turkish Cypriots have made an
important new offer regarding the pres-
ently deserted city of Varosha on Cyprus.
In a message to the Greek Cypriot com-
munity, they have agreed in effect to the
creation of a U.N.-supervised interim ad-
ministration for Varosha as soon as inter-
communal negotiations are resumed, and
they have expressed a readiness to enter
into discussions immediately concerning
*In fact, the Justice Department is analyzing
the situation to determine whether it should
enter the case. [Printed in the transcript.]
Moratorium
Statement on Signing H.R. 9757 Into Law.
July 21, 1978
Today I am signing into law H.R. 9757,
the grazing fee moratorium of 1978. This
legislation places a 1-year moratorium on
increases in grazing fees on public lands
in order to allow Congress more time to
study recommendations by the Secretaries
of the Interior and Agriculture.
privilege of grazing livestock on the Na-
For many years, fees charged for the
tion's public lands have been below those
charged for the use of comparable private
lands. However, in section 102(a) (9) of
the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976, the Congress clearly
stated its intention that "the United
States receive fair market value for the
use of the public lands and their re-
sources."
The act directed the Secretaries of the
Interior and Agriculture to submit to the
1331
