Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cities, counties, States, the Federal Gov-
ernment, private citizens, and our own
free enterprise system. Essential to this
partnership is a long-term commitment of
efficient Federal aid to cities. This is how
you and I have worked together already
in the last 22 months.
After my election in 1976, I met with
the board of the League of Cities. I
learned then that your most urgent need
was for a comprehensive local public
works program. You asked for $32 bil-
lion. At my urging, the Congress added $4
billion to the local public works programs.
In talking to the mayor on the way in
from the airport, we also discussed a vital
UDAG program for this central city-
$150 million, matching UDAG grants on
roughly a 10-to-1 basis.
We need your help and your initiative
to enhance the value of these policies and
these programs.
Another Executive order directed a
greater share of Federal purchases to bid-
ders from high unemployment areas.
A third Executive order established an
urban impact process for any major new
Federal initiative. This was a direct result
of the National League of Cities' long ef-
fort to dramatize the often unforeseen
We've also nearly tripled the number of
CETA jobs, and we have emphasized in
every way permanent, private employ- effects of new Federal programs in our
ment. We started the urban development
action grant, the UDAG program. The
result has been a net gain of more than
62 million new jobs since I was elected.
More important, our cooperation has
resulted in the evolution of our Nation's
first comprehensive urban policy—a goal
of the National League of Cities for 21
years a policy of action, not default, to
enhance the quality of American cities.
I've already initiated much of that pro-
gram administratively. Following your ad-
vice, we made more than 100 changes to
existing Federal programs, and I've issued
four Executive orders to make these pro-
grams more effective.
My first order reversed the disturbing
trend of moving Federal jobs and facili-
ties out of cities into the suburbs. I di-
rected the General Services Administra-
tion to make every effort to locate new
Federal facilities and jobs in central cities,
As an example, the Old Post Office Build-
ing here in St. Louis is being renovated for
Federal offices under this program. Its
first level, incidentally, will include res-
taurants and shops to help draw people
downtown.
cities.
The fourth order established an inter-
agency coordinating committee to target,
to package, and to coordinate Federal as-
sistance to cities.
We also reordered the priorities of the
When I took office, only 15 percent of
Economic Development Administration.
EDA funds went to cities. This year half,
one-half of EDA funds will go to cities.
I directed the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency to change the priori-
ties of its multibillion-dollar waste treat-
ment programs. The new emphasis will
be to rehabilitate older systems in disre-
pair, instead of encouraging urban sprawl
with new construction.
We also submitted to Congress 19 bills
as the legislative program of our urban
policy that you helped to evolve. It was
a tough fight, still going on, but we've
already won enactment of 13 of those
bills. Of course, you deserve much of this
credit.
We reauthorized the CETA program.
There will be an estimated 660,000 jobs.
We toughened requirements in CETA to
eliminate fraud and abuse and to ensure
that only genuinely disadvantaged work-
2076
