Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
I came here to thank you and to hear
you say that. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:15 p.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency
Hotel.
Miami Beach, Florida
Remarks at a State Democratic Party Rally.
October 26, 1978
My good friend Bob Shevin; Florida's
next Governor, Bob Graham; Congress-
man
Claude Pepper—[applause]—go
ahead and applaud; great-Congressman
Bill Lehman; Congressman Dante Fas-
cell; Mayor Haber; Chairman Duran:
Let me say that it is a great honor and
pleasure for me as President of the United
States to come back down to Florida, my
neighboring State, first of all, to pay my
thanks to you for supporting me when I
ran for President, and to let you know
that I'm here to support some men who
can do a great job for you on November
7. Will you help them in 12 days to be
elected? [Applause]
Florida needs a Governor who will con-
tinue the absolutely superb work of my
friend, Governor Reubin Askew, one of
the greatest Governors who ever served
any State in this country.
Florida needs a Governor who knows
what it means to work, a man who has
held, during the campaign, more than a
hundred jobs, spending a day alongside
Floridians like you on farms, in factories,
grocery stores, working in hotels, learning
what it means to take care of a home, try-
ing to see at first hand what could be done
to make Florida an even greater State.
Florida needs a man who can come
from a position as an underdog and be
triumphant over nine other very worthy,
dedicated, competent candidates who
challenged him. Florida needs a man who
knows about education, who served as the
chairman of the Senate Education Com-
mittee, who's worked as a teacher, who
knows what it means to give our young
people, indeed our old people as well, a
chance to continue to stretch minds, to
stretch hearts throughout their life's ex-
istence.
Florida needs a Governor who under-
stands your basic natural resources, your
basic human resources. He wants to see
those resources developed in the most ef-
fective way. Florida needs a Governor
who's eager to freeze property taxes. I
think that's one of the best campaign
promises I know of, and he's the kind of
man who will keep that promise.
Florida needs a man who, as Governor,
will be dedicated to law enforcement, to
eliminate the threat of crime that causes
concern among all those who live in this
beautiful State. And Florida needs a man
who can join with the Members of Con-
gress in the great State legislature to make
sure that our elderly citizens, our retired
citizens still have an enjoyable, secure, and
fruitful life, to let their own existence be
meaningful as long as they live on this
Earth. That man is Bob Graham. I hope
you'll help him get elected.
I'd like to say a word about Claude
Pepper. Él es un buen hombre, un buen
candidato. Es muy importante ayudarle.
Es necesario tenerle en el Congreso de los
Estados Unidos. Es un amigo de mí. [He's
a good man, a good candidate. It's impor-
tant that you help him. It's necessary to
have him in the Congress of the United
States. He's a friend of mine.] And I hope
that you will give him every support on
November 7.
He's a man of courage. He's a man of
vision. He's been an inspiration to many
of us who have lived in the South in elim-
inating discrimination against people who
1865
