Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
broader understanding and engage in cul-
tural and scientific exchanges.
This will be the fourth congressional
delegation to visit China in 1978.
Designation of National
Monuments in Alaska
Statement by the President.
December 1, 1978
Our Nation has been uniquely blessed
with a vast land of great natural beauty
and abundant resources. Once these gifts
seemed limitless. As our people have
spread across the continent and the needs
for development reach once distant fron-
tiers, we realize how urgent it is to pre-
serve our heritage for future generations.
Today I have taken several actions to
protect Alaska's extraordinary Federal
lands. Because of the risks of immediate
damage to these magnificent areas, I felt
it was imperative to protect all of these
lands and preserve for the Congress an
unhampered opportunity to act next year.
Passing legislation to designate Na-
tional Parks, Wildlife Refuges, Wilder-
ness Areas, and Wild and Scenic Rivers
in Alaska is the highest environmental
priority of my administration. There is
strong support for such legislation in the
Congress. In the 95th Congress, the
House of Representatives overwhelming-
ly passed an Alaska bill. A bill was re-
ported out of the Senate committee, but
time ran out and the Senate was unable
to finally pass a bill. Because existing "d-
2" land withdrawals under the 1971
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act ex-
pire on December 17, much of the land
to be protected by legislation would be
unprotected and perhaps irrevocably lost
if I did not act now.
Accordingly, along with Secretaries
Andrus and Bergland, I have taken the
following actions:
-I have signed proclamations under
the Antiquities Act of 1906, designating
as National Monuments 17 of the most
critical areas proposed for legislative des-
ignation-13 proposed National Parks,
two proposed Wildlife Refuges, and two
proposed National Forest Wilderness
areas.
These areas, totaling approximately 56
million acres, contain resources of un-
equalled scientific, historic, and cultural
value, and include some of the most spec-
tacular scenery and wildlife in the world.
The Antiquities Act has been used in the
past to preserve such treasures, for exam-
ple by President Teddy Roosevelt, who
designated the Grand Canyon in this
way.
The Monuments I have created in Alaska
are worthy of the special, permanent pro-
tections provided by the Antiquities Act.
They will remain permanent Monuments
until the Congress makes other provisions
for the land.
-I have directed Secretary Andrus to
proceed with necessary steps to designate
National Wildlife Refuges for the remain-
ing 12 proposed refuge areas, an addi-
tional 40 million acres.
Secretaries Andrus and Bergland
have already taken steps under Section
204 of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act to withdraw or segregate all
of the areas covered by either congres-
sional or administration proposals from
mineral entry and selection by the State
of Alaska. I have directed that these with-
drawals remain in place.
Each of the areas protected by these
actions is exceptional and valuable.
Among the treasures to be preserved are
the Nation's largest pristine river valley,
the place where man may first have come
into the New World, a glacier as large
2111
