Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion approved April 30, 1934 (48 Stat.
657), as modified by the Act of June 28,
1968 (82 Stat. 250), asked the President
to proclaim the second Monday in Octo-
ber of each year as Columbus Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Monday, Octo-
ber 9, 1978, as Columbus Day. I invite
the people of this Nation to observe that
day in their schools, churches, and other
suitable places with appropriate cere-
monies to commemorate his great adven-
ture.
I also direct that the flag of the United
States be displayed on all public buildings
on the appointed day in memory of Chris-
topher Columbus.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:54 a.m., August 17, 1978]
During the past year, I appointed a
new Chairman and two Board members.
To represent the public interest and ad-
vise the Congress of the Administration's
position, I appointed as Chairman, Wil-
liam P. Adams, former Transportation
Counsel for the House Committee on In-
terstate and Foreign Commerce. I ap-
pointed one Board member who was
nominated by railroad management—
Earl Oliver, a former official of the Illi-
nois Central Gulf Railroad and the Na-
tional Railway Labor Conference-and
another Board member who was nomi-
nated by railroad labor-Charles J.
Chamberlain, former President of the
Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen and
Chairman of the Railway Labor Exec-
utives' Association. Each of these ap-
pointees is extremely well qualified and
can be expected to set a high level of
public service.
The White House,
August 17, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Railroad Retire-
ment Board-1977 Annual Report for Fiscal
Year Ending September 30" (Government
Printing Office, 88 pages).
Railroad Retirement Board
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. August 17, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit the annual report of
the Railroad Retirement Board which
summarizes its fiscal year 1977 operations
under both the Railroad Retirement and
Railroad Unemployment Insurance Acts.
Benefit payments under these Acts to-
taled almost $4 billion. Of this amount,
$3.8 billion went to 1,100,000 retirement
and survivor annuitants and $180 million
was paid to 160,000 unemployment and
sickness beneficiaries.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
AUGUST 17, 1978
VETO OF THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
AUTHORIZATION BILL
THE PRESIDENT. I have one statement,
and then I'd like to answer your questions.
As President of the United States, my
ultimate responsibility is to the protection
of our Nation's security, and as Com-
mander in Chief of our Armed Forces, it's
my obligation to see that those forces are
operationally ready, fully equipped, and
prepared for any contingency. Because I
1438
