Aug. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
April or May this year. He analyzed the
number of minutes on the evening net-
work news devoted to different issues
that we considered to be crucial. And
with the exception of those peaks of in-
terest when I made those major speeches,
the evening news media have practically
no interest in the energy problem. CBS
did have one 3-hour program, and the
viewership was quite low, particularly the
last 2 hours and a half. [Laughter]
But I think you all have not only a
legitimate interest, but also you share a
responsibility with me to do what you can
to keep the energy problem before the
American people. I would like to see it
resolved by the Congress, which will be
a major step forward, before it becomes
a crisis for the American people.
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN
Q. In either May or June, depending
on which statistics you read, Women's
Bureau or Department of Labor statistics,
the working woman became the new ma-
jority of American women; 50.4 percent,
I think, was the June figure. I wonder
what your administration is planning to
do to support women as they undergo
this extraordinary piece of social history,
must learn to live with it and take part
in it?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me just give you
two quick statements, then perhaps you
would want to ask a followup.
This morning I had a meeting around
this table with a group of activists
women and men, Members of the Con-
gress, and others--who are trying to pur-
sue the passage of the equal rights
amendment, the extension of time for its
ratification, and the prohibition against
the rescission of ratification already taken
by some States. Not only I myself, as
President, but my whole family has
worked and is working on the ERA. That
would be one major step forward.
Another example that I mentioned
earlier is the civil service reform legisla-
tion. At this time, women are practically
excluded from the senior positions in the
civil service itself. Among the executive
level, I think, GS-17 and 18, 65 percent
of those executives are white male veter-
ans; only 3 percent are women. And at
the present time, the civil service laws
and regulations still provide a major ob-
stacle for job opportunities for women.
There are cases where women score
100, a perfect score, on a very tough, com-
petitive civil service examination, and
they still would rank, in an order of pri-
ority for that job, higher than a hun-
dred-they have more than a hundred
people ahead of them. And we are limited
at the present time by civil service regu-
lations that only let us consider the top
three. So, we are trying to make some
changes in that respect.
We've consolidated, with one of our
successful reorganization plans, the equal
employment opportunity groups in the
Government. We had seven when I be-
came President, and now we've narrowed
it down so that Eleanor Holmes Norton
has, in effect, the dominant role to play
there. We have, as you know, through the
EEOC and also through the Justice De-
partment, initiated several suits that are
test cases that might set a standard for
the resolution of the large backlog of
cases where women had filed legitimate
complaints about being excluded, not
only from Government employment but
private employment. Those are some of
the things that we are doing already.
ROSALYNN CARTER
Q. A personal question, if I may. How
much influence would you say Mrs. Car-
ter has on you? Do you talk things over
profoundly?
1412
