Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ful intentions, then I can tell Prime Min-
ister Begin, "To the extent that you trust
us, you and I will work together to alle-
viate your concerns about Sadat in the
future."
I think these kinds of problems can be
partially alleviated by our presence. But
there's got to be some building of mutual
trust between the two.
It is disappointing to me. I anticipated
after Camp David that in just a few days
the agreement could be reached. But
those ancient distrusts and disputes con-
tinually arise. And I think now, next year,
maybe years in the future, a moderating,
constructive influence by the United
States might be necessary, as mutually re-
quested by both parties. I think both the
Israelis and Egyptians see that without
our presence now, future progress will be
much more difficult. Even with our pres-
ence, progress is difficult.
Q. May I follow on that?
THE PRESIDENT. You can, yes.
Q. If we do get the agreement and
dare look over the horizon, how much do
you think that will do to defuse the poten-
tial for continued violence by other causes
in the Middle East and continued threats
against American oil supplies? Would it
be—take us a great leap forward away
from that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think it would
be a tremendous leap forward, even as it
affects nations who presently are ada-
mantly opposed to the peace agreements
between Egypt and Israel. Yes, it would
alleviate tension. It would help to let the
moderate Arab countries, ourselves, and
Israel act in concert to engender peace,
open ways for economic development
that still have not been adequately ana-
lyzed. I think that is the key factor in hav-
ing a stable and a prosperous Middle
East.
Q. Mr. President, when you outlined
those problems, I've never heard you
speak of why you think that those prob-
lems have developed. Is it in your view
that these things are happening in spite
of the good intentions of both sides? Or
is there a suggestion there that maybe one
side or the other or both have decided
that maybe they just can't go along with
what was agreed to at Camp David-
maybe that Sadat thinks he can't get
along with the rest of the Arab world on
this, or the Israelis think that somehow
they could get a treaty with Egpyt and
wind up keeping the land on the West
Bank?
THE PRESIDENT. I think both sides are
acting in good faith. They obviously want
to interpret the agreements as much as
proper to their own advantage. We have
an inevitable problem in that Camp
David, even though it was quite sub-
stantive--the texts were quite substan-
tive-had to be embellished or elaborated
with specific time schedules, exact draw-
ing of lines between Israel and Egypt,
interim withdrawal terms, the make-up
of the Egyptian forces on the east bank
of the Suez, the time to commence negoti-
ations on the establishment of self-gov-
ernment in the Gaza Strip and West
Bank. These kinds of things had to be ne-
gotiated in the final peace treaty.
In a few cases it might be necessary to
modify the Camp David accords if both
sides agree. If both sides don't agree,
then our adamant position will be the
Camp David accords cannot be abro-
gated, because this is just as solemn an
agreement between those two nations as
a future peace treaty will be. And unless
both sides agree to modify the Camp
David accords, we will insist that those
accords be honored meticulously.
In addition to that, though, the prog-
ress from Camp David brings up hun-
dreds of detailed decisions. We've put
forward our own compromise proposals
and our own documents as the original
2044
