Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
was one of them-very seldom have a
true champion. We've had one in Bill
Hathaway, not because he seeks votes, be-
cause he never publicizes what he does.
But whenever I have a difficult issue that
addresses itself to these two particular
problems, I don't have to worry about the
motivations or the final vote of Bill
Hathaway.
He's a man with a heart. He exempli-
fies one characteristic of the Democratic
Party, and that's compassion. We've never
been one to turn our backs on those that
are poor, unemployed, illiterate, without
influence, black, or perhaps not able to
speak English well. We don't consider
ourselves reaching down to somebody to
give them a chance. We reach out to them
and say, “Join us in a society and use your
own talent and ability, stand on your own
feet, meet your own needs, contribute to
a greater nation." That is the attitude
that Bill Hathaway exemplifies in his
service.
He's an expert or. the problems of the
elderly. There are some who work on the
same committee that constantly publicize
to the organized groups representing the
elderly in this country how much they do.
As I said before, Bill Hathaway is not a
good enough politician to make it a major
commitment to publicize his own achieve-
ments. He's a man who understands that
we've got to have a strong nation, a strong
defense. And if there ever has been one
effective protector of the defense contri-
bution of Maine to the rest of the Nation,
in all forms, it's been Bill Hathaway.
He's never tried to violate what was
best for our country to put Maine before
other nations, to make us waste money,
but he has been there in a careful, per-
sistent way, saying, "This is what I think,
it's best to make our Nation strong."
Sometimes the polls have not looked
good for him or for some of the other
candidates on the stage with me. If I had
been worrying about polls, I'd still be
growing peanuts. Two weeks after I an-
nounced my candidacy for President,
Gallup ran a public opinion poll on the
next President. There were 38 names on
the list. Mine wasn't even on the list.
[Laughter]
And I might say in closing about Bill
Hathaway specifically that he's a gentle-
man. When I rode back from the 1974
Maine Democratic convention with him,
and he said, "What are you going to do
after you quit being Governor," I said,
"I'm going to run for President." He
never said a word. He looked up at the
ceiling, shook his head a little bit, but he
never embarrassed me by saying a word,
and I appreciate that. [Laughter]
But I remember when Bill Hathaway
ran for the Senate. The seat was held by
a Republican. I don't believe that there
had ever been an elected Democratic Sen-
ator to hold that seat. I doubt if 5 percent
of
you thought he had a chance when he
began to run. But he brought that seat
to the Democratic Party, and he has used
it well for you and for the rest of the
country.
There is a difference between the two
parties. I inherited the White House after
a long campaign about 21 months ago.
Ten million Americans didn't have a full-
time job. The budget deficit was $66.6
billion. The average American was em-
barrassed about our own Government.
Every time the United Nations convened
in the fall, I, as a Governor and a candi-
date for President, shrank inside, because
I knew that my country, which I love, was
going to be the butt of every joke, the tar-
get of every attack by two-thirds of the na-
tions in the entire world.
It was an embarrassing thing. We were
looked on as warmongers. Our Govern-
ment put its arms around every tinhorn
1899
