Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
Government. And may I just say that the
idea has been around a long time. It was
first suggested in the second Hoover Com-
mission Report, and when former Presi-
dent Hoover presented that report to
President Eisenhower, he said the single
most important recommendation in these
many, many volumes is the Senior Exec-
utive Service.
And we obviously are pleased that or-
ganizations like the National Academy of
Public Administration, the National Civil
Service League, people like Elmer Staats,
the Comptroller General of the United
States, are all very strong supporters of
this. And for this intelligent audience
about these kinds of organizations they
know full well that these kinds of groups
would not endorse a kind of service which
itself could be politicized.
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman Joe Fish-
er would like to comment.
REPRESENTATIVE JOSEPH L. FISHER.
Yes. I have thought that a Senior Execu-
tive Service, properly handled and with
adequate protections, could enliven the
Federal service a great deal. But one of the
apprehensions that has been expressed to
me many times in the last few weeks is
that people will come up out of the higher
grades in the civil service into this special
elite corps and somehow will be found
wanting, perhaps because they don't toe
the line politically, and will go back, drop
back to their GS-15, until, ultimately,
people will be brought up into the Senior
Executive Service who somehow conform
or follow the right politics. And this is
the apprehension I've heard and would
be I know many people here would be
pleased to have a comment on this.
THE PRESIDENT. I think there are two
elements that might alleviate some con-
cern. In the first place, it's human nature
for anybody to be concerned about
change, and that's an understandable
attitude, particularly among those who
don't have complete control over their
own careers-and that is the case.
But to repeat what's already been said,
in the first place, entry into the Senior
Executive Service is completely volun-
tary. If someone does occupy a GS-15 or
GS-16 level position and they don't want
to go into the more advanced Senior Ex-
ecutive Service and perhaps be as high as
an Assistant Secretary, they don't have
to be. If they should get to that point of
deciding, "Let me expand my life, expand
my responsibilities, expand my contribu-
tion," and they don't work out, perhaps
they are not compatible with the Cab-
inet officer, then they can always go back
to their previous position without loss of
pay and with their full previous rights
preserved.
So, I think the insurance built in and
the exciting opportunities for that execu-
tive service make a very good combina-
tion to protect the rights of employees.
Thank
you very much, Mrs. Van Cleve.
MERIT PAY SYSTEM
JAMES P. SCHLICHT. Mr. President, I'm
a budget specialist with the Office of
Management and Budget. And I too feel
that the Senior Executive Service and
Merit Pay System for mid-managers are
sound proposals in attaining high man-
agerial qualities in the Federal Govern-
ment. However, to have even more effi-
ciency and productivity in the Federal
work force, why doesn't this Merit Pay
System extend to all professionals and
totally eliminate automatic longevity step
increases?
THE PRESIDENT. That was one of the
things that we considered, to apply the
incentive rewards all the way down at
least to GS-9. We talked to many of
the senior private personnel managers
throughout the country in the formative
1365
