Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion has been assessed, the productivity
and leadership of the Congress has been
assessed, the more the potential opposi-
tion and intense criticism has gone away.
It's good for us to be observed with a mi-
croscope and for every tiny facet of lead-
ership in our Federal Government to be
carefully judged and for us to have advice
and counsel and criticism when it is
deserved.
I know that the approach of this con-
ference has made me much more aware of
a need to inventory what we have done
and to analyze our own accomplishments
and mistakes and to make plans to pre-
sent, in a factual but in a positive light,
what the Democratic administration has
brought to our country.
I'm proud of what we've done. I think
the best accomplishment that we can ob-
serve is the harmony that exists between
me and the Congress, between my entire
administration and the State and local
officials. It's kind of a new era in Ameri-
can politics, the reestablishment of the
sense and the system of federalism which
was really totally absent the 8 years be-
fore I became President.
I was Governor for 4 of those years, and
a very active and enthusiastic and eager
Governor. And there was no access from
me, representing 5 million people in
Georgia, to the core of leadership in Wash-
ington; even at the sub-Cabinet level, it
was almost impossible for me to get an
appointment or to discuss issues that were
being contemplated for implementation
by the Nixon and Ford administrations.
But that's been changed. And I think
we've seen a building of a foundation, not
only for greater accomplishments in the
future but also for greater political
achievements in the future.
Although we lost some crucial and dis-
appointing campaign efforts last month,
the overall outcome of the election
showed a massive approbation and con-
fidence among the American people in
Democrats. We have more than 60 per-
cent of the Members of the House who
are Democrats; more than 60 percent of
the Governors and Senators-just about
60 percent, a very heavy majority. And I
think that this has been a notable contri-
bution made by John White, a tremen-
dous chairman who has helped to bring
us all together.
We've got a long way to go, both
politically and in an administrative and
leadership capacity. I'm now involved in
the most unpleasant portion of my year—
it was the same a year ago the prepara-
tion of the Federal budget. But I'm deter-
mined to meet the goals that I've set for
myself, and I am reassured in those long,
tedious sessions by a firm knowledge that
you support those goals and that the aver-
age American also supports those goals.
I'm perfectly willing, as I see the evolu-
tion of the budget toward a final conclu-
sion, to be judged personally on whether it
is fair to the American people, whether
our obligations overseas are met, our de-
fense commitments are adequate, the
social programs are also designed in a
proper priority and at a proper level to
meet the legitimate needs of our people.
And these are not incompatible with the
commitment that I have made to control
inflation.
We inherited a mess in bureaucratic
terms, in budget terms, in the admin-
istration of existing social programs,
and in the relationships that did exist
between the White House and the
people of our country, and the White
House and the Congress. Any thoughts
that go back to 2 or more years ago
would prove that what I've just said
is true. Two years is not a long time in
the historical evolution of a nation. But
we've not only achieved things already
of which we can be legitimately proud,
2196
