Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment you get, what the charges to you are.
This is not right. Last year in South
Carolina-I looked up the statistics—
charges for hospital care to you went up
20 percent in 1 year. Hospital costs are
doubling every 5 years. This ought to be
changed.
I'm not going to belabor the point, but
I want to give you one example of what
I mean. I have not had much success in
the House in getting hospital cost con-
tainment passed, because we had a lot of
pressing items on the agenda and not
enough attention was given to it. And the
special interest groups were putting tre-
mendous effort in keeping it in commit-
tee, and they succeeded in the House so
far this year. I hope to get it out and get
it passed, still.
But Tip O'Neill, the Speaker of the
House, a decent, good man, went home
for a weekend. And one of his friends,
a working man, came up as he was getting
on the plane to go back to Washington,
with tears in his eyes. He said, "Tip, I
think I'm ruined." Tip said, "What's the
matter, friend?" He said, "I just got a bill
from the hospital, and I can't pay it. My
little boy, just a child, fell down and
crunched two or three of his teeth up into
his gums. It wasn't all that serious. And I
took him to the hospital. He stayed in
there 1 day, 26 hours to be exact, and the
bill is $2,330.99."
Well, that person had his problem pre-
sented to the President of the United
States, because his friend was the Speaker
of the House. But there are a lot of people
like you
around this country that are pres-
ently being cheated and charged too
much for hospital care, because we've not
yet been able to break the will and the in-
fluence of the special interest groups who
are fighting against you. I'm determined
to change that. And there are some other
things, too, that I'm not going into to-
night. But I need good help, and I would
like to ask you as you leave here this eve-
ning not to overlook what you've got as a
possibility for South Carolina—Pug Rav-
enel.
You couldn't have a better three top
offices if you searched the Nation over
than Dick Riley as Governor, Fritz Hol-
lings as your senior Senator, and to re-
place the other Senator with Pug Ravenel.
I just want to ask you one more ques-
tion: Do you think that all of us together
can elect Pug Ravenel to the Senate?
[Applause] Right on. I'll do my part if
you will.
Thank you very much.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
September 22, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I'll insist that this is the
last time I follow my wife. [Laughter] The
competition is too great. Also, I'm afraid
of the consequences if my statements con-
flict with hers. [Laughter]
I want to welcome all of you to the
White House. This is one of a series of
meetings that we have had with top news-
paper and radio-television executives
from around the country since I've been
in office. It's been very helpful to me, I
think to Jody Powell, and to all the mem-
bers of my administration here in the
West Wing of the White House. Not only
have we been able to get across our posi-
tions to you privately and in some depth,
but we've also had a chance to derive
from your own questions a clearer sense of
the attitudes and questions and concerns
of the American people better than we
would ordinarily from the White House
news media, who do a good job in their
own group, of course.
1588
