July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
stration of it a few minutes ago, I call it
very impressive.
You are the point of the Western sword.
That sword is sharp and true, and the
people and the Government of the United
States are striving to keep it that way.
That is why we are introducing improved
equipment into the European theater-
equipment like the F-15 and the F-10
(A-10)ยน aircraft and the Cobra heli-
copter gunship equipped with Tow anti-
tank missiles.
That is why we have increased and
repositioned our forces here. That is why,
with our allies, we will meet the future
needs of NATO through the 15-year,
long-term defense program. And that is
why we are improving our ability to pro-
vide reinforcements, should that become
necessary, through such steps as increased
stockpiling of weapons and equipment
here in Europe.
This means that when additional
troops get here in an emergency, their
equipment is already stockpiled and wait-
ing for them. This gives us more flexibil-
ity and a faster reaction time.
Military service has always involved
sacrifice, even in times of peace, and
especially when service is far from home.
In this connection, I would like to say a
few words directly to the American sol-
diers who are here today.
I know that many of you are experi-
encing tough financial hardships, espe-
cially those of you in the junior grades
who have your families with you. I can-
not promise you instant and complete
relief. But I do want to assure you
that
I am acutely aware of your problem, and
we are taking steps to make it easier.
These problems are closely related to
the value of the dollar and the overall
health of the world economy. Chancellor
ยน Printed in the transcript.
Schmidt and I have been discussing these
issues already, and we will be discussing
them in depth at the economic summit
meeting tomorrow and Monday in Bonn.
But we cannot rely on long-term changes
in the international economy to do the
job of meeting your immediate needs.
We have made some progress in the
last few months, particularly the increase
in allowances for junior enlisted members
whose families join you here in Germany.
There have been and will be other im-
provements as well. In next year's budget,
I have proposed to the Congress large in-
creases in a variety of services ranging
from financial counseling to dental care.
And I'm asking Congress to let the Gov-
ernment shoulder the financial burden of
travel and transportation of goods that
junior members now face when your
families join you here.
Problems aside, your service here brings
you some rare opportunities. Germany is
a beautiful and hospitable land, and this
part of the Rhine Valley happens to be
one of its most beautiful spots. People
from all over the world come just to spend
a few days here. I hope that all of you
will take advantage of this chance to get
to know Germany and Europe in depth.
You are here as men and women who
are making an indispensable contribution
to the security of life around you. I hope
that you will become part of that life as
much as you can. I hope that you will
make German friends, both among the
civilian population and among your com-
rades in arms.
I hope that you will begin to learn
the language and something about the
way of life of the German people. It will
give you a new perspective on our own
country and our own way of life as well.
And finally let me say, as President of
the United States, as the Commander in
Chief of United States military forces, I
deeply appreciate the work that you are
1290
