Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and labor, and to provide for the procure-
ment by Executive agencies and Military
Departments of personal property and
services at prices and wage rates which are
noninflationary, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
1–101. The Chairman of the Council
on Wage and Price Stability shall:
(a) Monitor company pay and price
practices in order to determine compli-
ance with the standards set forth in Sec-
tion 1-102 of this Order;
(b) Promulgate regulations and guid-
ance to further define these standards,
and provide for appropriate exemptions
and exceptions;
(c) Publish, or cause to be published, in
accordance with procedures designed to
ensure fairness and due process, the names
of individuals or companies which are not
in compliance with the standards;
(d) Promulgate procedures to be used
in proceedings before the Council on mat-
ters pertaining to the standards, and take
such other action as may be necessary
and consistent with the purposes of this
Section.
1-102. Noninflationary wage and price
behavior shall be measured by the fol-
lowing standards:
(a) For prices, noninflationary price
behavior is the deceleration by companies
of their current rate of average price in-
crease by at least 0.5 percentage points
from their historical rate of annual price
increase during 1976-1977 except where
profits have not increased.
(b) For pay, noninflationary pay be-
havior is the holding of pay increases to
not more than 7 percent annually above
their recent historical levels.
(c) These standards, which shall be
further defined by the Chairman of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability,
shall be subject to certain limitations and
exemptions as determined by the Chair-
man.
1-103. In order to ensure economy and
efficiency in government procurement,
the head of each Executive agency and
Military Department shall ensure that
their contracts incorporate, on and after
January 1, 1979, a clause which requires
compliance by the contractor, and by his
subcontractors and suppliers, with the
standards set forth in Section 1-102 of
this Order.
1-104. Each Executive agency and each
Military Department shall comply with
the directions of the Administrator for
Federal Procurement Policy, who, in ac-
cord with Section 6 of the Office of Fed-
eral Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C.
405), shall be responsible for the overall
direction of the implementation of Sec-
tion 1-103 including the issuance of regu-
lations and procedures for determining
exceptions and granting exemptions.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 1, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:49 p.m., November 1, 1978]
President's Commission on the
Holocaust
Executive Order 12093. November 1, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution of the
United States of America, and in order
to create, in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), an advisory com-
mittee on the establishment of a memorial
to the victims of the Holocaust, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment and Membership.
1-101. There is established the Presi-
dent's Commission on the Holocaust.
1920
