Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 21
vulnerable. If we use it unwisely or waste-
fully, it can disappear. If we ignore the
diverse needs of our people, the forests
will cease to preserve the natural water-
sheds, to provide a home for wildlife or
a wilderness where our people can renew
their spirits. Many of the earth's problems
today are the result of generations of de-
structive deforestation that has left lands
barren and wasted. We must make sure
that man's works lie gently on our land,
so that we may leave for future genera-
tions a richer, more abundant, more beau-
tiful land than we inherited.
Research is helping to show the ways
to get as much usable material as possible
from each harvested tree, finding better
methods for protecting wood products so
they last longer and developing ways to
recycle used wood into new products. Our
scientists are also finding ways to make
trees grow faster, and to protect the forest
from its natural enemies of fire, insects,
and disease.
The Congress has designated the third
week of October in each year as National
Forest Products Week to remind us of the
importance of forests in our national life.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week of October
15 through 21, 1978, as National Forest
Products Week and ask all Americans to
reflect upon the value of our forests.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-first day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:22 p.m., September 21, 1978]
Meeting With President Gaafar
Muhammed Nimeiri of
the Sudan
White House Statement. September 21, 1978
President Carter met this morning with
Gaafar Muhammed Nimeiri, President of
Sudan and Chairman of the Organiza-
tion of African Unity. President Nimeiri is
in the United States on a private visit and
will address the United Nations General
Assembly on September 27.
The two Presidents discussed recent de-
velopments in Middle East peace negotia-
tions resulting from the Camp David sum-
mit and issues of mutual concern in Af-
rica. They also discussed the role of the
OAU in seeking peaceful solutions to con-
flicts in Africa. Both leaders expressed
their satisfaction with the existing cordial
bilateral relationship and the focus on eco-
nomic development in Sudan.
Attending the meeting were President
Carter; the Vice President; Andrew
Young, U.S. Representative to the United
Nations; Warren Christopher, Deputy
Secretary of State; Zbigniew Brzezinski,
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs; David A. Newsom, Un-
der Secretary of State for Political Affairs;
Richard Moose, Assistant Secretary of
State, Bureau of African Affairs; Harold
Saunders, Assistant Secretary of State for
Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs;
Donald C. Bergus, U.S. Ambassador to
the Sudan; and Paul B. Henze, National
Security Council.
The meeting lasted from 9:30 a.m. un-
til 10:45 a.m.
1561
