Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 8, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
December 1, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody. Well, first
of all, let me say that it's a pleasure to
have you at the White House. This is our
35th meeting, I understand from my
briefing this morning, with editors and
other news executives from around the
country. And it's always a pleasure for us
to have a chance to answer your questions,
primarily, and let you know what our cur-
rent problems are, some of which have
been chronic problems and, I guess, op-
portunities for service.
I think for just 2 or 3 minutes, I might
outline where we stand on a few major
issues, and then spend what time we have
available answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
In domestic affairs, our primary con-
cern at this phase of the year is to prepare
the budget for fiscal year 1980, which will
commence the 1st of October, next year.
It is a very difficult and unpleasant ex-
perience to prepare a budget that's going
to be as stringent as the one for the up-
coming fiscal year.
I meet, ordinarily, with the Office of
Management and Budget after they get
all their recommendations in. I give them
tentative and general guidelines for the
allocation of funds, and then each head
of an agency or Secretary of the Cabinet
has a right to appeal to me if they think
that I and OMB have made an improper
judgment in the total amount of money
available to that agency or the allocation
priorities.
The zero-base budgeting technique has
helped tremendously to arrange expendi-
tures in a proper order of priority and to
incorporate in the same assessment both
longstanding commitments for programs
and new or innovative programs to be
proposed.
So, that's my primary domestic respon-
sibility at this moment.
In foreign affairs, we are continuing
our effort to bring about a resolution of
the SALT negotiations, pursuing our con-
ventional arms talks with the Soviet
Union, trying to reduce the distribution
of conventional arms throughout the
world, as a matter of fact. We still hope
that without much delay, we can meet at
the top level between ourselves and the
Soviets to sign a SALT II treaty.
I met yesterday with Foreign Minister
Pik Botha, from South Africa, to encour-
2149
