Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Rochester, Minnesota
Remarks at the Rochester Municipal Airport.
October 21, 1978
Senator Anderson, Governor Perpich,
Mayor Smekta, Chairman Scott, National
Chairman John White, Congressman
Oberstar, Congressman Nolan, next Sen-
ator Bob Short, Congressman Mike Free-
man, in the future, and Gerry Sikorski:
Thank you very much for welcoming
me here.
I've been wondering where Fritz Mon-
dale was, and I should have guessed he
was in Minnesota. [Laughter]
This is the first time that he and I
have ever been together on a campaign
trip since the election, and it's no accident.
Not only is Minnesota his home, but we
consider the elections this year in your
State to be unequaled in importance in
the entire Nation.
I particularly want to thank Gerry Si-
korski and your fine mayor for being
present to welcome us. I felt surely they'd
be in Poland or either in Rome today, one
or the other. [Laughter] But I think all of
us recognize the tremendous resurgence
or surgence of Poles throughout the world;
that I predict that next January, when the
new Congress is sworn in, that there will
be a fine young Polish American Con-
gressman from the First District of
Minnesota.
I'm very grateful and somewhat so-
bered to come back to your State. As a
Governor for 4 years who served with
Wendy Anderson, as a Democrat through-
out my life, as someone who has been in-
terested in government earmarked by
honesty and decency and openness and
responsibility and character and truthful-
ness and compassion, I think I can say as
a Georgian, as an American, as President,
that your State and the Democrats in it
have long exemplified those attributes
above and beyond any other State party in
our country. And I want to thank you
for it.
There are a lot of reasons. One is that
there's an ease with which Minnesotans
can participate in government. And as I
said many times during the campaign, I
think government ought to be as good and
honest and decent and truthful and
compassionate and competent and as filled
with love as the people of this country.
But you have another reason, as well.
The last time I came to your State, it
was not a happy occasion. I came here
to pay the Nation's last tribute to a man
who exemplified more than anyone I have
ever known what is good about politics,
about government, about public service,
and about our country.
Hubert Humphrey was a man who was
an inspiration to me and, I'm sure, to all
of you. He was courageous, he was a
fighter. He never backed down in the face
of difficulty or a severe challenge or an
obstacle. He never was afraid to show
emotion. No one ever doubted that his
heart was big, because he was genuinely
concerned about a person who was black
or who could not speak English well or
who was poor or who was a Native Ameri-
can or someone who didn't have a job or
didn't have a home or had a small farm
deeply in debt or didn't have a friend or
was struggling to get started in a profes-
sion or politics. Everybody knew that there
was one man in this Nation to whom they
could turn, not just for sympathy, because
he was not just a sympathetic type person.
But he considered that unfortunate
American to be as good as he was, and
he wanted to give that person a chance to
prove it in a society, in a system that
he cherished and loved so much.
I remember the difficult days in the
South in 1964 when he was running for
Vice President. Democrats were fairly
scarce in Georgia. Muriel Humphrey
1822
