Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
bers representing the general public to Supergrade staff positions may not in-
chair the Commission.
1-103. The President of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives may designate three members
of their respective Houses to attend and
participate in all meetings of the Com-
mission ex officio.
1-104. The Secretary of Labor and the
Secretary of Energy or their designees
may also attend and participate in all
meetings of the Commission ex officio.
1-2. Functions.
1-201. The Commission shall conduct
a comprehensive review of the state of the
coal industry in the United States with
particular emphasis on matters pertaining
to productivity, capital investment, and
the general economic health of the indus-
try; collective bargaining, grievance pro-
cedures, and such other aspects of labor-
management relations as the Commission
deems appropriate; health, safety and liv-
ing conditions in the Nation's coal fields;
the development and application of new
technologies to the industry; the impact
on the coal industry of Federal regula-
tions; and such other matters as the Com-
mission deems appropriate.
1-202. The five members appointed by
the President shall prepare and transmit
a final report of their findings and recom-
mendations to the President, the Secre-
tary of Labor and the Secretary of Energy.
1-203. To assist the Commission in the
exercise of its functions, the Commission
may sponsor a White House conference on
the future of the coal industry.
1-3. Administration.
1-301. The Chairman of the Commis-
sion is authorized to appoint and fix the
compensation of a staff and such other
persons as may be necessary to carry out
its functions, subject to the applicable pro-
visions of the Federal Advisory Committee
Act, including Section 7(d) (2) thereof.
clude more than one position at the GS-18
level, one position at the GS-17 level, and
three positions at the GS-16 level, and
shall be subject to the applicable provi-
sions of law, including any applicable pro-
visions of Sections 3324 and 5108 of Title
5 of the United States Code. The Com-
mission may obtain services in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3109 of
Title 5 of the United States Code, to the
extent that funds are available therefor.
1-302. To the extent authorized by law
and requested by the Chairman of the
Commission or by the Departments of
Labor or Energy, the General Services
Administration shall provide the Com-
mission with necessary administrative
services, facilities and support on reim-
bursable basis.
1-303. The Department of Labor and
the Department of Energy shall, to the
extent permitted by law and subject to
Commission with such information, ad-
the availability of funds, provide the
vice, facilities, support, funds and services,
including staff, as may be necessary for
the effective performance of the Com-
mission's functions.
1-304. The Commission may request
any Executive agency to furnish such in-
formation or assistance it deems necessary
to carry out its functions. Each such
agency is authorized, to the extent per-
mitted by law, to furnish such informa-
tion and assistance to the Commission
upon request of the Chairman.
1-305. Each member of the Commis-
sion may receive compensation at the rate
now or hereafter prescribed by law for
GS-15 of the General Schedule for each
day such member is engaged in the work
of the Commission. Each member may
also receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702
and 5703). Individuals designated to at-
tend meetings under Section 1-103 of this
2244
