Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
With the contribution, I want to extend
my best wishes to Dr. Bror Rexed, the
new Executive Director of the Fund.
The United States remains deeply
committed to the cause of international
drug control. We will continue to support
the efforts of the Fund, the United
Nations, and other governments.
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of September, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:03 a.m., September 25, 1978]
National Good
Neighbor Day, 1978
Proclamation 4601. September 22, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
As our Nation struggles to build friend-
ship among the peoples of this world, we
are mindful that the noblest human con-
cern is concern for others.
Understanding, love, and respect build
cohesive families and communities. The
same bonds cement our Nation, and the
nations of the world.
For most of us, this sense of community
is nurtured and expressed in our neigh-
borhoods where we give each other an op-
portunity to share and feel part of a larger
family.
In recognition of the importance of
fostering compassion and respect in our-
selves for our neighbors, the Congress has
requested the proclamation of September
24, 1978, as National Good Neighbor Day
(S.J. Res. 133).
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Sunday, September
24, 1978, as National Good Neighbor Day.
I call upon the people of the United
States and interested groups and organi-
zations to observe such day with appropri-
ate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
Civil Service Retirement Credit
for Japanese Americans
Interned During World War II
Statement on Signing H.R. 9471 Into Law.
September 22, 1978
I am very happy to sign H.R. 9471, a
bill which represents one more Govern-
ment effort to redress inequities that oc-
curred during World War II.
Three and a half decades ago, our Gov-
ernment overreacted to the attack on
Pearl Harbor and evacuated and interned
approximately 110,000 Japanese Ameri-
cans who lived in our Western States.
Even at the time this action seemed
shameful and indefensible to many of us.
The loyalty and devotion of our Japanese
American citizens-despite this Govern-
ment action-has been proven many
times over. Most of the internees were
American citizens, and many subsequently
gave
their lives in defense of this country.
While we cannot undo or erase the
hardships and indignities suffered by these
loyal Americans, we can, in some small
measure, compensate them.
Three laws have been enacted for this
purpose since the end of World War II.
Public Laws 82-545 and 86-782 granted
special benefits for civil service pay and
retirement purposes to Japanese Ameri-
cans who met certain criteria and were
employed by the Federal Government on
1569
