Sept. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President's Commission
on Pension Policy
Appointment of C. Peter McColough as a
Member and Chairman. September 7, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of C. Peter McColough, chair-
man and chief executive of Xerox Corp.,
as a member and Chairman of the Presi-
dent's Commission on Pension Policy.
McColough was born August 1, 1922, in
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. He re-
ceived an LL.B. from Dalhousie Univer-
sity in Halifax in 1947, and an M.B.A.
from Harvard Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration in 1949. He served as
an airman in England with the Royal
Navy during World War II.
McColough joined Xerox (then the
Haloid Co.) in 1954 as general manager
of the firm's first reproduction service cen-
ter in Chicago. He became president of
the company in 1966.
McColough is chairman of the execu-
tive committee of the International Exec-
utive Service Corps and serves on the
board of directors of the New York Stock
Exchange. He is a member of the Business
Council, the Business Roundtable, the
Council on Foreign Relations, and the
steering committee of the National Com-
mittee for Full Employment.
National Employ
the Handicapped Week, 1978
Proclamation 4593. September 7, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our country's greatest resource is its
people—including those with physical and
mental disabilities.
But handicapped individuals too often
have had to exist on the sidelines of life
because of poor education, improper voca-
tional preparation, unavailable transpor-
tation, inaccessible buildings and other
difficulties.
Now, however, local, state and Federal
laws and regulations are beginning to en-
sure equal rights to the disabled, so that
they will no longer be second-class citizens.
All offices of the Federal government have
been directed to improve hiring and pro-
motion practices as they relate to handi-
capped individuals. The private sector,
too, is being made more aware of its duties
and responsibilities.
To affirm our commitment to handi-
capped individuals, the Congress, by joint
resolution of August 11, 1945, as amended
(36 U.S.C. 155) has called for the desig-
nation of the first week in October of each
year as National Employ the Handicap-
ped Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
October 1, 1978, as National Employ the
Handicapped Week. I urge all Governors,
Mayors, other public officials, leaders in
business and labor, and private citizens at
all levels of responsibility to help secure
full employment rights for handicapped
individuals and to remove all barriers that
prevent their full participation in every
aspect of our national life.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventh day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:12 a.m., September 8, 1978]
1502
