Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
SIGGI WILZIG, a Clifton, N.J., bank president
and philanthropist, and survivor of a Nazi
camp;
IRVIN ZIFF, national executive director of Jew-
ish War Veterans;
SOLOMON ZYNSTEIN, founder and president of
the American Federation of Jewish Fighters,
Camp Inmates, and Nazi Victims.
Merit Selection of United
States District Judges
Executive Order 12097. November 8, 1978
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR THE
MERIT SELECTION OF UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGES
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution and the
statutes of the United States of America,
including Section 7(a) of the Omnibus
Judgeship Act of 1978, providing that the
President shall promulgate and publish
standards and guidelines for the selection
of nominees for United States district
court judgeships, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
1-1. Nomination of District Judges.
1-101. Whenever a vacancy occurs in
a district court of the United States, the
President shall nominate as district judge
to fill that vacancy a person whose char-
acter, experience, ability, and commit-
ment to equal justice under law qualifies
that person to serve in the federal judici-
ary.
1-102. The Attorney General shall as-
sist the President by recommending to the
President persons to be considered for
appointment who are qualified to be dis-
trict judges and by evaluating potential
nominees. The Attorney General shall re-
ceive recommendations of such persons
from any person, commission or organi-
zation.
1-103. The use of commissions to no-
tify the public of vacancies and to make
recommendations for district judge is en-
couraged. The Attorney General shall
make public the suggested guidelines for
such commissions.
1-104. Before making recommenda-
tions, the Attorney General shall con-
sider whether:
(a) Public notice of the vacancy has
been given and an affirmative effort has
been made, in the case of each vacancy,
to identify qualified candidates, including
women and members of minority groups;
(b) The selection process was fair and
reasonable;
(c) The person or persons recom-
mended meet the standards for evalua-
tion set forth in Section 1-2 of this Order.
1-105. In evaluating proposed nomi-
nees, consideration will be given to reports
of Department of Justice investigations
and all other relevant information con-
cerning potential nominees and their
qualifications.
1-2. Standards for Evaluating Proposed
Nominees.
1-201. The standards to be used in de-
termining whether a person is qualified
to serve as a district judge are whether
that person:
(a) Is a citizen of the United States,
is a member of a bar of a state, territory,
possession or the District of Columbia,
and is in good standing in every bar in
which that person is a member;
(b) Possesses, and has a reputation for,
integrity, good character, and common
sense;
(c) Is, and has a reputation for being,
fair, experienced, even-tempered and free
of biases against any class of citizens or any
religious or racial group;
1975
