Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
skiy trial has been a matter of concern
and interest to everyone, almost, on
Earth, in the civilized nations.
And we hope that the problem with
Herr Hübner can be now better under-
stood by the rest of the world, and per-
haps world opinion can cause his early
release. But there is no specific action that
I can promise you that would guarantee
this early release against the desires of
the Soviets or the East Germans.
BERLIN AND THE ALLIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Irmgard
Hiege. I'm a pensioner, and I've got this
question for you, Mr. President: Why
don't public and official circles do more
to promote the personal relationships of
the Berliners with the allies present in the
city of Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know now, but
within a half an hour after I leave this
podium, I will talk to the commanders of
all the three allied services, and I will
have not only an answer for you but I'll
let them know about my interest in hav-
ing the relationship be freer, more fre-
quent, and more constructive.
I think it's very healthy when the Al-
lied Forces are incorporated within the
spirit of friendship and hospitality of those
among whom they serve. I spoke re-
cently-today as a matter of fact-to our
forces and the German forces at Frank-
furt. And I encouraged them to learn the
German language, to get to know the Ger-
man culture, to make personal friends of
the German poeple, to shop as much as
possible in the German shops, and to be-
come a part of the German society. I
think it will help them not only to under-
stand the very great characteristics of the
German people but will also make them
better Americans when they come home.
So, I'll talk this over with the com-
manding officers here, and I think your
question has already brought very good
dividends, even though I can't answer
your question any better than that. Thank
you.
Perhaps we could get a reply published
in one of the local newspapers, since I'll
have to bring this to a close in a moment.
I can only take one more question, I
understand.
U.S.-GERMAN EXCHANGES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Rita
Schäfer. I'm a psychologist. My question
is as follows: Would you help to foster
existing friendship and exchange pro-
grams between our nations and to expand
them in such a way that the members of
the maximum number of brackets and
social groupings, not only academics and
professional professions, can exchange
their jobs for a limited period of time in
order to get acquainted?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. This is something
that would not only benefit you and
others but would also benefit our own
country.
I think the student exchange is one
very fine example of what can be accom-
plished. The Friendship Force that's al-
ready been referred to earlier is one that
can be greatly expanded in the future.
And I think that we have a great oppor-
tunity in that there are 300,000 Ameri-
cans, for instance, who serve in the mili-
tary forces in Europe. And they are, hope-
fully, ambassadors of good will for our
country and also can derive from all of
you a very clear understanding of the
benefits to be brought back home. But I
think your question is a very good one.
And I believe in these and other ways we
can expand the relationship among us.
To conclude, let me say that one of the
things that can be done by a President
to expand the understanding between my-
self and you is to have this unprecedented
townhall meeting. I do this in our own
1305
