Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Israel created a chance for true peace. In
their negotiations at Camp David, they
displayed the wisdom and the courage
necessary to forge a framework for peace
in the Middle East.
Everyone who shares their dream of
bringing division and bitterness to an end
in the Middle East will join me in welcom-
ing their representatives to Washington as
they take their next vital steps toward
turning that framework into a lasting
structure of peace.
No one who is aware of the history of
our own generation or of this century or,
indeed, of the last 20 or more centuries can
overlook the historic importance of this
event the moment when Egyptians and
Israelis meet to begin negotiating the
terms of a treaty which will define in a
practical and concrete way relations of
peace between them.
Our meeting today gives us a measure
of what has been accomplished and what
remains to be done to make peace and
dignity a reality for all the people of the
Middle East. We have certainly not re-
solved all the issues, nor removed all the
risks. We have established, however, prin-
ciples and procedures for resolving the ne-
gotiations ahead.
Again, we invite Jordan, the inhabitants
of the West Bank and Gaza, and others
who are ready to seize this opportunity to
join with us in our search for peace. The
alternative is drift, stalemate, continued
enmity, and perhaps even another war.
The talks that begin today deal pri-
marily with that part of the Camp David
framework related to a peace between
Egypt and Israel, to establish the specific
terms by which Egypt will assume its full
exercise of authority and sovereignty over
the Sinai, under which security will be
assured to both nations, both peoples, and
under which the two countries will live
and work together as peaceful neighbors.
This peace between these two great
nations must be the foundation and the
first step toward the larger, even greater,
more important result which we all seek-
a comprehensive and a lasting settlement
between Israel and all her neighbors. A
peace treaty between Egypt and Israel
should be complemented by progress to-
ward fulfillment of the provisions of the
general framework agreement which was
concluded at Camp David dealing with
the West Bank and Gaza and the just solu-
tion of the Palestinian question in all its
aspects.
In the days since Camp David, we've
seen difficult but important decisions
made in both Egypt and Israel, decisions
which demonstrate the firm commitment
of the leaders, the government, and the
peoples to this great effort, decisions
which demonstrate their willingness and
their ability to turn the existing commit-
ment to peace into an early reality.
With President Sadat's striking vision
of the future, he's made even more clear
his nation's determination to achieve
peace, not only for Egyptians but for all
those involved in or affected by recent
conflict, a peace that answers their yearn-
ing for an end to bloodshed, an end to
destruction, and assures the legitimate
rights of all who have suffered or who
might suffer in the future through never-
ending war.
In these recent days Prime Minister
Begin has displaced once again his courage
and his statesmanship, his determination
in dealing with the very difficult decisions
which are necessary and must be taken for
peace. I appreciate how hard, how diffi-
cult it has been for him to make some of
the decisions and for the members of his
government to join in with him. They
touch the very heart of every citizen of
Israel. The Knesset's decisions confirm
1758
