Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
enormous deficits by spending money we
don't have, and benefit the American
the American
people, is a serious question. I don't think
we can.
I think we've got to have careful budg-
eting, a more accurate focusing of Gov-
ernment services to meet the needs of
those who need it most; combined with a
restoration of confidence in our Govern-
ment's ability to handle both fiscal, mon-
etary, and administrative affairs. And
there are times when those are in conflict.
But we now have 10 years of inflation
that's averaged about 62 percent, and I
think that almost every economist, even
those who think we might have a reces-
sion next year, agrees that we have got to
cut down on the inflation rate.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. MOYERS. Some of your people this
morning were telling me that they sense
a new attitude on your part, a new spirit
of confidence. And they attribute it to the
fact that in your mind you've made some
very tough decisions on the inflation front
and are going to stick with them. Is that
true? Are their perceptions accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't feel that I'm
more confident or more aggressive or
more sure of myself than I was before.
We've made some difficult decisions ever
since I've been in office. It seems to me,
almost daily, difficult decisions have had
to be made. But, obviously, the longer I'm
in office, the more I'm aware of the needs.
I understand the Government structure
better. I know more of the leaders both
within Washington and outside Washing-
ton who help to shape our Nation's poli-
cies and shape its future.
We've now finished the 95th Congress
work. I think they passed about 6 or 700
bills which help to clarify my own pro-
grams. We're trying to take advantage of
what the Congress has decided, and I
think I'm certainly more aware of and
more sure of the opportunities and limita-
tions of the Presidency itself.
MR. MOYERS. What have you learned
about this town?
THE PRESIDENT. I like Washington
very much. We came here as newcomers.
MR. MOYERS. To say the least.
THE PRESIDENT. To say the least. I
didn't know the congressional leaders. I
didn't know the news media representa-
tives, except those who followed me in the
campaign. Neither did they know me. I
had a lot to learn about the bureaucratic
structure of the Government. I was not
privy of course to secrets involving na-
tional defense or international relations,
and I really spent 18 months or so not
only as a President but also as a student
trying to learn what I didn't know before.
There have been no serious disappoint-
ments on my part. I told some news
people the other night at a supper at the
Mansion that there were two things that
had been unpleasant surprises. One was
the inertia of Congress, the length of time
it takes to get a complicated piece of leg-
islation through the Congress, and the
other was the irresponsibility of the press.
MR. MOYERS. Irresponsibility of the
press?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. MOYERS. What do you mean?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, quite often news
reports have been inaccurate when I think
a simple checking of the facts with a tele-
phone call or a personal inquiry could
have prevented a serious distortion of the
news. And also there's a sense of doubt or
even cynicism about the Government and
about programs or proposals, brought
about I'm sure by the Vietnam experi-
ence, of the fact that the public was mis-
led during Watergate and perhaps even
the CIA, as I mentioned earlier.
But I think that a lot of that was
caused by my relative inaccessibility and
by the lack of knowledge on my part of
2027
