Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion of the recent excessive exchange rate
movements.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 a.m. to report-
ers assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Following Secretary Blumenthal's remarks,
Anthony M. Solomon, Under Secretary of the
Treasury for Monetary Affairs, and he held a
news conference on the Treasury Department
and Federal Reserve System measures.
White House Forum on
Inflation
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
by Telephone With Participants in the Forum
in St. Louis, Missouri. November 1, 1978
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Charlie, may I in-
terrupt you now and ask if you would
take your seat. President Carter is coming
to the phone now and is just on the
phone. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Bob.
How's the meeting going so far?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Well, Mr. Pres-
ident, I'm joined here by Charlie
Schultze and Ray Marshall and Fred
Kahn and Lee Kling, Esther Peterson,
and probably a thousand people here
under the sponsorship of the Regional
Commerce and Growth Association in St.
Louis. And we're going to have a good
day, Mr. President. Everyone here is op-
timistic and everyone is well, they've got
the kind of looks on their face you'd like
to see. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Bob, that's good to
hear.
I think everyone knows that we've had
excellent response so far from our anti-
inflation effort, following up a very suc-
cessful first 20 months in getting the un-
employment rate down. I noticed that in
St. Louis, for instance, the unemployment
rate has gone down at least 25 percent.
And we look on that great city as a model
for good labor-management relations and
a strong center for business locations that
affect not only our country but the entire
world.
But we've had inflation preying upon
our American economy now for 10 years
with an average inflation rate of 6½ per-
cent, and of course, it's gotten worse in
recent years. And I finally decided that
we needed to move in a bold and aggres-
sive way throughout this country to re-
cruit volunteers to help me fight infla-
tion.
The Congress has done a good job.
We've been able to cut the unemployment
rate on the one hand, but also we've cut
taxes drastically, $28 billion, and also cut
the deficit down by $25 billion in the brief
period of time I've been in office.
We had two basic decisions that we
could have made. One was to impose
Federal mandatory wage and price con-
trols throughout the free enterprise sys-
tem, which I think would be a very bad
thing to do and which I do not intend to
do; and secondly, to deliberately create a
recession, which would throw millions of
people out of work. This is what did oc-
cur shortly before I became President.
But as I announced the other night, we
chose instead to invoke a series of volun-
tary actions by both business and labor,
hoping to recruit as many Americans as
possible to join in a crusade.
I'm determined, Bob, and everybody
there, to make this program work. It will
be my top responsibility on domestic
affairs in the months ahead. I do not in-
tend to see it fail. We have an excellent
team committed to make it work, not
only in our own administration but
throughout the Congress and the Govern-
ment, and we've had good response from
1910
