Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ought to be preserved. And you need a
Governor that'll keep your environment
clean and make sure that the land is used
well and the forest industry is protected,
the forest harvests are expanded, that
more trees are planted. And I hear this
from Bob Straub every time I talk to him.
And you need to keep him in office to pro-
tect you and the quality of your life in the
future.
What kind of industry do you want in
Oregon? Clean industry, right. That's the
kind I want throughout the country, and
Bob Straub is setting an example for other
States to follow. I might point out that
Bob Straub also believes in lower taxes, at
the same time opening government so you
can understand it better and participate
in it, but giving better services to the peo-
ple as well.
Many of you are still students, and
Oregon now has the highest State support
for education in over 30 years, which is a
very good commitment and a better life
for you and those you care about.
He's fighting for lower utility rates,
lower rent for elderly people, and also
fighting to give lower costs for dental care
for elderly people. He believes, as I do,
that we can tackle tough problems and be
successful.
As you well know, Congressman Bob
Duncan, Congressman Les AuCoin are
very strong supporters of what I'm trying
to do in Washington. I inherited, when I
went into office, a very serious series of
problems. We had over 10 million people
in our country who could not find a full-
time job. Since then, we've had a net in-
crease of 62 million new jobs. On the
way here from Illinois this morning on Air
Force One, I got a report that last month
we added 642,000 jobs in our country,
and we cut down the unemployment rate
another two-tenths of 1 percent. It's now
5.8 percent, the best it's been in many,
many years.
I've been concerned, as have you, about
the stability of our own economy. I want
to say just a word about the prospect for
a recession next year.
In the last 2 weeks many economists,
advisers of mine, have been predicting
that if the American dollar was not sta-
bilized on foreign markets, that inflation
rates would go up much higher next year
than this year and that we would face an
almost sure recession.
Last Saturday night I met with my top
economic advisers to consider what to do.
And we made a decision that we believed
then and believe even more strongly now
would not only stabilize and strengthen
the dollar overseas; it'll expand American
export, create more jobs for American
citizens, and make sure that we do not
have a recession in 1979. This is what we
believe we can accomplish. If you will
help us with our anti-inflation program,
we'll be successful. Will you help me with
that by using all of your influence in the
future? [Applause]
This is a program that requires cooper-
ation and teamwork from Democrats and
Republicans alike, from employers and
employees alike, from those who live in
cities, those who live on the farms, be-
cause all of us have to make equal sacri-
fices to control rampant inflation.
We've had a very high inflation rate
now for 10 years. The 3 years before I
became President, we had an average in-
flation rate of 8 percent. It's not quite
that high now, and we want to hold it
down.
In the last 2 days, the value of the dol-
lar has gone up against the deutsche
mark, for instance, in Germany 8 percent.
As you know, day before yesterday, the
stock market went up more than it ever
had in history, over 35 points. That's an
indication of confidence in our Govern-
ment.
1944
