Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 6
ized them because many sacrificed. We
realized them because we persevered.
For millions of people around the
world today the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights is still only a declaration
of hope. Like all of you, I want that hope
to be fulfilled. The struggle to fulfill it
will last longer than the lifetimes of any
of us. Indeed, it will last as long as the
lifetime of humanity itself. But we must
persevere.
And we must persevere by ensuring
that this country of ours, leader in the
world, which we love so much, is always
in the forefront of those who are strug-
gling for that great hope, the great dream
of universal human rights.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon in the
East Room at the White House. Earlier he had
hosted a reception and a briefing by administra-
tion officials for the human rights activists,
Members of Congress, and administration of-
ficials involved in human rights policy who
were present for the meeting.
Veterans Preference in
Employment
White House Statement. December 6, 1978
On Monday, the Department of Jus-
tice lodged an amicus curiae brief with
the United States Supreme Court in the
case of Massachusetts v. Feeney. In that
case the Supreme Court will be reviewing
a Federal District Court ruling that the
Massachusetts veterans preference law is
unconstitutional.
The Attorney General has advised the
President that the Justice Department
brief in no way conflicts with the Presi-
dent's policy on veterans preference in
Federal employment. The President be-
lieves that our Nation is deeply indebted
to those who have served in our Armed
Forces, and that government can and
should provide appropriate preferences
and benefits to veterans in recognition of
this debt. However, as the President has
said repeatedly over the past year, he also
believes that the existing Federal veterans
preference law for nondisabled veterans
unduly interferes with employment op-
portunities for women and minorities and
with efficient and businesslike manage-
ment. That is why the President has pro-
posed significant reforms in the law. His
position on reforming the existing Fed-
eral veterans preference for nondisabled
veterans remains unchanged.
Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations
Appointment of Bill G. King as a Member.
December 6, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Bill G. King, of Hunts-
ville, Ala., as a member of the Advisory
Commission on Intergovernmental Rela-
tions.
King, 45, is an Alabama State senator,
and a former member of the Alabama
House of Representatives. He was a mem-
ber of the Alabama Constitution Commis-
sion. He is president and chairman of the
board of Public Systems, Inc., a manage-
ment consulting firm.
George S. Brown
Statement on the Death of the Former
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
December 6, 1978
I join in mourning the passing of one
of this Nation's most respected military
leaders, George Brown. From the begin-
2165
