Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
cratic President many years ago, was
facing immediate bankruptcy.
These kinds of things had torn at the
very fabric of our country. And I, as a
Governor and a candidate for President,
shrank up inside every autumn when the
United Nations General Assembly began
its deliberations in New York, because I
knew that the country that I loved was
likely to be the target of every attack, the
butt of every joke by two-thirds of the
nations on Earth. We were not beloved,
we were not even respected by every na-
tion that was small or new or weak, or
whose people were brown or black or
yellow.
Our country had lost its spirit. But
there was a hunger within us and a
strength within us that was indomitable,
and we began the long journey back. It
was not an accident. It's not been easy.
We have not yet won all the battles.
We've not answered all the questions.
We've not solved all the problems.
But the progress that we have made has
been because of a strong team spirit, a
spirit that epitomizes what Hubert Hum-
phrey's life meant, what he stood for, a
concern about common, ordinary working
people who don't want a selfish benefit
from government, but just want a chance
in life to be an individual, to take what-
ever talent God might have given us and
use that talent to the utmost, to be free
and proud, proud of ourselves, proud of
our family, proud of our country. That's
not asking too much. And that's what
we've tried to bring back.
Your State is known throughout the
Nation as setting an example for the rest
of us in honesty, in decency, and concern
about one another, voter participation.
This is what we need to have Tuesday.
But we can't take anything for granted. I
doubt if any time in recent years has there
been a threat that the Governor's office,
both Senate offices might go to the Repub-
lican Party, responsible for that kind of
America that I've described in a very
few words.
Miners now have a good life. The social
security system is sound. In the last 21
months we've added 62 million net new
jobs in our country. We've cut the unem-
ployment rate down by 25 percent. Day
before yesterday, I signed two bills, the
most progressive and far-reaching help
for education in the history of our coun-
try-over $12 billion that will now go
from the Federal Government into better
elementary and secondary education, bet-
ter aid for students who want to get a col-
lege education and who couldn't other-
wise afford it.
At the same time, we've not been waste-
ful. The Democratic Party has always
been a party with a heart, we've always
been compassionate. But we've also built
very laboriously, recently, a reputation for
competence, for efficiency, because you
can't educate a child, you can't feed a
hungry person, you can't build a house,
you can't have a good school system with
waste and inefficiency.
I was concerned, as a responsible fis-
cal person, because when I ran for Presi-
dent, we had a deficit of over $66 billion.
We've already cut that deficit over $25
billion. And the budget I'm preparing
now for submission next year to Congress
will more than cut that deficit in half.
And we're trying to work for a balanced
budget.
At the same time we've been careful
about your own pocketbook, not just con-
cerned about deficits and better services,
but we've cut taxes $8 billion last year in
income tax cuts, another $20 billion this
year.
We've tried to bring to you the elements
of life that Americans have a right to de-
mand and which epitomize what you've
1951
