July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Together we must seek an interna-
tional monetary system strong enough
and flexible enough to sustain growth and
to bolster confidence.
Together we must seek to share the
benefits of economic progress and ex-
panded trade with all the developing na-
tions and channel increased aid to the
world's neediest countries.
The United States and the Federal Re-
public are united in our commitment to
these objectives. More is at stake than
our economic well-being. Economic
strength gives us the means and the con-
fidence and spirit to deter war and to
ensure peace.
What we do here in Bonn this week,
and at home in the weeks ahead, relates
directly to our military as well as our eco-
nomic security.
Our defense policy is based on a strong
NATO. American security is tied as
closely to the security of Western Europe
today as it has been for the past three
decades. We are prepared to deter war
in Europe and to defend all allied terri-
tory as strongly and as deeply committed
as we defend the territory of the United
States itself.
Tomorrow I will visit a few of the 200,-
000 American NATO troops stationed in
Germany and the German troops who
serve with them. I will assure them of this
The work we do together in strength-
ening the global economy and providing
for our mutual security gives us the con-
fidence that we seek to reduce tension
with our potential adversaries.
We realize that our relationship with
the Soviet Union will continue to be com-
petitive for a long time to come and that
the Soviets will continue to pose threats
and challenges to Western interests. But
we also recognize the threat to peace
posed by a continuation of the arms race
or by our inability to move beyond con-
frontation.
We are prepared to broaden our areas
of cooperation with the Soviet Union, to
seek a genuine, broadly defined, and fully
reciprocal détente. We hope the Soviets
will choose to join with us in making this
effort. For our part we intend to make
clear that we continue to seek coopera-
tion, but we are fully prepared to protect
Western interests.
Today the United States is negotiat-
ing a SALT II agreement that will pre-
serve and enhance our own security and
that of our Allies, indeed, the entire world.
Reaching that agreement is essential to
meeting the broad responsibilities shared
by the Soviet Union and the United
States to nations and to people every-
where.
We are prepared to negotiate in other
continuing commitment of the people areas to seek reductions in the level of
whom I represent.
When the NATO summit met in
Washington 6 weeks ago, we agreed on a
Long-Term Defense Program, 15 years,
that will guarantee the men the supplies
and the equipment to meet any foresee-
able military threat. This was not a uni-
lateral commitment; it was a pledge
made by the Alliance itself. All the Allies
agreed to increase our military budget;
all of us agreed to share the responsibili-
ties of our long-term security.
conventional forces in Europe, to limit
nuclear testing, and to put a halt to fur-
ther proliferation of nuclear explosives.
But genuine détente also includes re-
straint in the use of military power and
an end to the pursuit of unilateral ad-
vantage—as in Africa today. And dé-
tente must include the honoring of solemn
international agreements concerning hu-
man rights and a mutual effort to pro-
mote a climate in which these rights can
flourish.
1288
