Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 18
less fortunate than we. We've been ex-
tremely interested in seeing good pro-
grams implemented to let people get an
education, let people have a job, to let
people have a home, to see cities im-
proved, to see highways built.
We've always had that reputation.
And we're trying to carry it out, not only
on the State level but also at the local
and Federal level.
I was very proud the other day—hav-
ing campaigned several times with
Mayor Schaefer, with Bob Embry in
Baltimore, having learned what a real
urban renewal program ought to be-to
Baltimore recognized and your
mayor receive an award in Germany for
having the finest urban renewal program
in the world. It's a credit to you, and it
shows what a party can do.
We are forming now an urban policy
on a nationwide basis patterned substan-
tially after what has been done in Balti-
more, forming a new partnership be-
tween local, State, and government of-
ficials, private individuals, just private
homeowners, working people, retired
people, to let our country be more clean,
more decent, and have a better place to
live.
The Congress last year passed a new
farm bill to let our agricultural families
who have been deprived in the past of an
adequate level of income have a better
life. And Maryland is a great agricul-
tural State.
And the Members of your Congres-
sional delegation who are here on the
stage with me have helped to forge now,
not a division between urban and rural
dwellers, but kind of a new partnership
there as well.
We believe in basic rights of human
beings. One of those basic rights is the
chance for a job. When I campaigned
around the country for 2 years, the sin-
gle most important issue that
brought up every time I had a political
meeting was the high unemployment
rate.
When I became President about 20
months ago, 10 million Americans did
not have a full-time job; 7 million
Americans or more didn't have any job.
We had an 8 percent unemployment
rate. Since then we've had an unprece-
dented achievement. The Congress has
passed laws that have been implemented
effectively. Our economy has been stimu-
lated. And we've had a net addition to
over 6 million jobs. The unemployment
rate has been brought down 25 percent,
a very good demonstration of what the
Democratic Party stands for, to let
people stand on their own two feet, re-
solve their own problems, support them-
selves, be constructive members of a
societal structure.
We've tried to bring to the Federal
Government a kind of breath of fresh air.
The Congress has now passed very strin-
gent ethics bills, which I will sign into
law in the next few days, requiring all
executive offices in the Government, all
Members of Congress to account for
their incomes, to make sure that any
conflict is identified or preferably
avoided. And the Congress has done this
enthusiastically on their own, because
there have been embarrassments about
top public officials.
We're trying to root out fraud. As you
well know, here in Baltimore, in the Gen-
eral Services Administration, a few bad
managers are giving our Government a
bad name. But we're trying to bring some
resolution of this problem. And the Con-
gress has also passed a new Inspectors
General bill to establish 12 offices, inde-
pendent, within the largest agencies, to
root out and detect fraud and misman-
agement and waste from your Govern-
ment, which I head.
1797
