Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
be more totally or more dangerously dollars of the taxpayers' money than it is
wrong.
When a program is poorly managed,
when it is riddled with waste or fraud, the
victims are not abstractions, but flesh-and-
blood human beings. They are the unem-
ployed teenagers who get shut out of a
job. They are the senior citizens who are
deprived of adequate medical service.
They are the schoolchildren who go with-
out nutritious meals or the taxpayers
whose hard-earned money goes down a
drain.
When I lived in Plains after retiring
from the naval service, I was able to ex-
pand my own small family business,
processing peanuts because I was able to
obtain a Small Business Administration
loan when I could not raise private funds.
And there are thousands of Americans,
many
of them members of minority groups
or women, who dream of starting a busi-
ness of their own and seeing it grow and
thrive and having that pride of personal
independence and accomplishment. It's a
cruel hoax to these Americans to see those
dreams destroyed by those who abuse and
defraud the Small Business Administra-
tion.
Those of us who believe that our so-
ciety has an obligation toward its weak-
est members, we have the greatest stake
in improving the management and effi-
ciency of programs that are designed to
meet that obligation. This is especially
true when the battle against inflation
makes it impossible to bring vast new re-
sources every year to bear on our social
problems. There is no room any longer
for waste. At such a time as we have now,
indeed at any time, efficient management
is in itself an act of compassion, for it un-
locks new resources to be used for human
ends.
There's a second myth, the myth that
it is somehow more compassionate, more
committed to appropriate another billion
to streamline existing programs so that
they deliver an extra billion dollars worth
of service. In fact, the latter is preferable
in every way. Of course, it saves money,
but it does more than that.
Efficient management increases politi-
cal support for programs which quite
often are not popular among those who
pay the taxes to support it. It gives the lie
to those who prefer to believe that pro-
grams that meet human needs cannot
work. It inspires and it boosts the morale
of government employees who are deeply
frustrated when they see their own hard
work frittered away through waste and
fraud. That's one of the most demoraliz-
ing things that can happen to a dedicated
worker in private or public life.
I did not select that $1 billion figure
at random. This is the amount that Joe
Califano has vowed to save in fiscal year
1979, this year, by cutting deeply into
waste and fraud in the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
Joe's efforts and those of thousands of
others working with him at HEW are al-
ready showing
showing good results. Project
Match is sifting out those on the Federal
payroll who are illegally receiving welfare
benefits. The project is very new, but it
has already repaid its million dollars in
costs twice over. Project Integrity is nail-
ing down the thieves and con artists
among health care providers.
Thanks to tough management of the
student financial aid program, the num-
ber of student defaulters is falling instead
of rising for the first time in the 10-year
history of this program. And the backlog,
which hit 400,000 last March, is projected
to be at zero at the end of 1980.
The credit for these successes belongs
to an active partnership between the Fed-
eral Government and the States and the
localities.
2230
