Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
MR. MOYERS. Your polls had fallen
very sharply this summer as well.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they had-not
as low as the polls fell for, say, Harry
Truman during his own administration,
but lower than I liked. But I never had
any particular concern about that, be-
cause I could see in the evolutionary
stage, for instance, in my dealings with
Congress, progress being made toward
eventual decisions by Congress that
showed that the 95th Congress had a
very good record of achievement. And
I think in the confrontations I had with
the Congress, when we disagreed on two
or three items, I prevailed because I
think I was right and established princi-
ples that will be good for the future.
But I've never had any doubt about
my own resolution. I recognize my own
limitations and faults. I'm not omni-
scient. I'm certainly not omnipotent. I
have limited powers, limited authority,
and I try to overcome those inherent de-
fects in the office itself as best I can.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
MR. MOYERS. What people were saying
in circles where I was listening was that
Jimmy Carter accepted an energy bill
that was not what he wanted; Jimmy
Carter settled for a tax bill that was at
odds with his conviction; Jimmy Carter
had set aside an aggressive fight for wel-
fare reform; he lost his hospital contain-
ment costs; he didn't push on education.
In a sense, people were saying that Jimmy
Carter, who said he was going to bring
competency and efficiency to govern-
ment, was being routed on every front
and settling, compromising for what he
had said before he didn't want. And from
that came a perception, I think, of a
weak President, of a President who is be-
ing defeated in one front after another.
THE PRESIDENT. The final legislative
agenda as it was passed, I think, is a great
credit to the Congress and shows a good
compatibility between them and me and
has been a matter of pride for all of us.
The fact that we had very few Mem-
bers of the Congress defeated in the last
election, compared to previous off-year
elections, is good. We still have more than
60 percent Democrats in the House,
about 60 percent in the Senate, I think
about 60 percent in the Governorships,
is an endorsement of what the Democratic
Party has done.
But I think I need to be fair in saying
that there have been times when I've had
to compromise, below what I had asked
the Congress to do or had demanded of
the Congress. We got about 65 percent of
the energy bill that we originally proposed
to Congress in ultimate savings in im-
ported oil, about 2.5 million barrels a day
savings compared to 4.5, for instance.
I would like to have gotten the entire
thing. I'm not out of office yet and will
come back to try to get some more in the
future.
MR. MOYERS. But take the tax bill, Mr.
President. During the campaign, you said
repeatedly our tax system is a disgrace to
the human race. The tax bill you signed
was a bill that gave the biggest breaks to
the wealthiest taxpayers and the smallest
breaks to the smaller taxpayers. Did you
sign that bill in conscience?
THE PRESIDENT. That's not exactly
fair, because although the bill fell far short
of the reforms that I advocated, the bill
does bring substantial tax reductions to
all taxpayers. And it's a fairly balanced
bill, as far as that goes.
It was necessary that a bill be passed,
and compared to the version that the
House passed or compared to the version
that the Senate passed, the compromise
that was brought about was superior to
either one of those.
Had I vetoed that bill after the Con-
gress sent it to me, we would have had an
2024
