Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
constructive approach to this most diffi-
cult problem. I am gratified to see that
attempts to resolve such Indian claims can
be made in an atmosphere of co-
operation.
Interior Secretary Andrus and I sup-
port and encourage just and amicable
settlements of legitimate claims. I hope
that other Indian claims which are now
the source of friction among Indian and
non-Indian citizens of this country can
also be settled in the way the people of
Rhode Island have done-in a climate of
harmony.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12860 is Public Law
95-395, approved September 30.
Federal Pesticide Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 1678 Into Law.
October 2, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law S. 1678,
amendments to the Federal Insecticide,
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. This bill
culminates 2 long years of hard work by
the chairmen of the Senate and House
Agriculture Committees, Senator Tal-
madge and Representative Foley. The
bill's sponsor, Senator Leahy, Senator Lu-
gar, and Representatives de la Garza and
Fithian have pursued this effort with dedi-
cation and care.
These amendments make numerous,
important revisions to the FIFRA, most of
which were sought and supported by the
Environmental Protection Agency on be-
half of the administration. With these
amendments, the important task of regis-
tering pesticides may move forward in a
more streamlined and efficient manner,
while providing a sound basis for protec-
tion of public health and the environ-
ment. I am also pleased that vital health
and safety information will once again be
made available for public use and scrutiny.
S. 1678 is a fine example of cooperation
between the Congress and the executive
branch in making regulatory programs
meet their underlying purposes without
imposing overly bureaucratic, unduly cost-
ly, or unnecessary requirements. This act
represents a step forward in the twin
causes of better protection of the environ-
ment and reform of our regulatory proc-
esses.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1678 is Public Law 95-
396, approved September 30.
Futures Trading Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2391 Into Law.
October 2, 1978
I have signed into law S. 2391, the
Futures Trading Act of 1978. This leg-
islation extends appropriation authority
for the Commodity Exchange Act to
strengthen regulation of the Nation's
highly volatile futures trading industry
and to improve the administration of the
Commission.
strengthen
The Commodity Exchange Act pro-
vides a Federal regulatory framework to
ensure fair practices and honest dealing
on commodity exchanges and to provide
a measure of control over manipulative
activity which may cause financial injury
to producers and consumers. While these
amendments do not reflect all of the rec-
ommendations of the administration, I
believe that they provide a suitable basis
for moving forward with the work of the
Commission. Further, I expect that var-
ious administrative deficiencies on the
part of the Commission which have come
to light in recent months will be corrected.
In signing this bill, however, I must
note my serious objections to a provision
1696
