Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 27
My Administration is dedicated to
eliminating discrimination against wom-
en. Among the crucial issues which de-
mand our attention:
Passage of the Equal Rights Amend-
ment and the Resolution for Extending
the Deadline for Ratification;
Passage of pending legislation which
improves the status of women as recom-
mended in this report;
• Enforcement of all civil rights laws,
particularly Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex
discrimination in Federally-financed edu-
cation programs; and
Development of improved statistical
information to permit adequate evalua-
tion of the impact of Federal programs
and practices on women.
THE STATUS REPORT
International Women's Year helped
raise the expectations and consciousness
of American women, who now look to
government, private industry, and the
community for bold and energetic re-
sponses. In accepting the final report of
the National Commission for Interna-
tional Women's Year, I reaffirmed my
commitment to equality for women and
my determination to help keep the spirit
of Houston alive. At that time, I directed
that a status report be prepared on the
Administration's initial steps to imple-
ment the National Plan of Action. Today
I am pleased to present that report with
my recommendations to the Congress.
To assess our progress toward the goals
described in the National Plan of Action,
each department and agency was asked
to report all current legislative and execu-
tive actions reflecting the aims and spirit
of Houston. More than three hundred
women, both from inside and outside the
Federal government, and representing a
wide range of interests, reviewed the
agency surveys. Many of their sugges-
tions were incorporated into the final re-
port, and I am grateful for their help.
A set of detailed recommendations for
implementation of the National Plan of
Action separate from this report was de-
veloped as part of this work. I shall trans-
mit these recommendations to the Inter-
departmental Task Force on Women and
the National Advisory Committee for
Women for review and advice.
Part I of the report sets forth those
portions of the Plan's twenty-six resolu-
tions calling for Federal action, and in-
dicates the major Administration legis-
lative and executive initiatives in the first
eighteen months in those areas. In the
months ahead we shall continue to start
new initiatives to improve equity for
women in areas included in The Plan of
Action and beyond. Part II of the report
describes other legislative measures which
represent efforts to approach these issues
in different ways.
REPORT HIGHLIGHTS
The report summarizes more than
seventy-five important initiatives taken
during the first eighteen months of this
Administration to provide greater equity
for women. These include new laws and
programs, increased funding, and im-
proved administration in areas addressed
by the National Plan of Action. Let me
highlight some of our major steps:
More than 21 percent of my appoint-
ments within the White House and the
executive branch have been women, an
all-time high for any Administration. In
response to my instructions, Cabinet mem-
bers and agency heads also sought out and
appointed women to important positions.
We shall continue to do so.
• My Administration has acted:
(1) to improve Federal employment
opportunities for women;
(2) to examine and make recommen-
dations to address the problems women
1641
