Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing useful programs. I will not make
wholesale, arbitrary spending cuts. We're
simply going line by line, item by item
through the budget to limit or to cut those
things we cannot afford.
For the cities the impact will be clear.
We will do as much as we can within the
necessarily severe limits. We can and will
propose new programs like the National
Development Bank. We will take into ac-
count explosive growth in rapidly growing
areas that bring about serious problems,
as well as we take into account the prob-
lems of areas which are in distress.
But there will be little money for new
initiatives next year. It will be an austere
budget. However, I promise that the cities
will bear no more and no less than a fair
share of budget restraint.
My responsibility as President to the
people of the United States is to demon-
strate clearly, when the budget is pre-
sented to the Congress, that there is a
sound and fair and equitable balance as
we meet the needs of urban Americans
and rural Americans, to provide for edu-
cation, jobs, defense, domestic programs,
and foreign or international programs. All
will be examined very closely; all will be
examined very closely. And I can assure
you that the budget will be fair.
We will continue to streamline Federal
aid to cities. When I ran for President, I
pledged to make urban programs more
efficient, more responsive, simpler, and
more targeted, and to be evolved and ad-
ministered in closer cooperation with
the local officials of our country. I'm
carrying out that pledge to the best of my
ability.
you,
I know from personal experience that
Federal programs often cost State and
local governments too much. And
frankly, that is still true today. For ex-
ample, for the small town of Junior, West
Virginia, it took 7 years, $1.7 million, and
five different Federal agencies to build a
required sewer and treatment system.
I know that we can do better. And
that's why my urban policy emphasizes
less processing time, less overhead cost,
less paperwork, and better coordination
with you and with State officials. OSHA,
for instance, has eliminated hundreds,
even thousands, of unnecessary regula-
tions. HEW is eliminating, simplifying, or
consolidating about 60 percent of its
nearly 1,400 planning requirements. EPA
is doing the same with over half of its
300 planning requirements. We are doing
that throughout the Government.
We need your continued help. You
should point out specifically those plan-
ning requirements, those reporting re-
quirements that you consider to be un-
necessary, too complicated, or required
too frequently.
We can also expect to benefit from our
review of new Federal regulations for
their cost impact. I'm going to use my
power as President to stop cold any new
regulation that ignores its impact on costs
to cities and States. I urge you to contact
Jack Watson on my staff directly, or me,
if necessary, to point out where this com-
mitment might tend to be violated. We
will stop it immediately if you'll let us
know.
But I also expect State government and
you, the local government officials, to do
your part. We've long known the infla-
tionary impact of State or local regula-
tions that restrict competition and raise
costs.
Much of the inflation in housing, for
example, comes from outmoded building
codes. Productivity in building construc-
tion in the last 10 years has actually gone
down, almost 2 percent each year. We will
look to the cities and the counties to en-
courage local construction companies and
unions to attack the problem of produc-
2078
