Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 12
of years. They become a member of a
committee or two. They then become
chairman of a subcommittee. They then
become, perhaps, chairman of a commit-
tee if they are quite senior. And their con-
centrated knowledge about a subject is
highly valuable to our country, to the
Congress, and certainly to me, as
President.
But that means that on occasion there
will be differences of opinion. I wouldn't
criticize, for instance, any Member of
Congress who was instrumental in passing
the public works bill, which has excessive
spending, excessive numbers of Federal
employees required, and which authorizes
projects that I think are unnecessary.
These Members of Congress have been
working with those projects for years. And
I just think that it's time for us to save
money and to have a more efficient gov-
ernment and to spend our money where
it's needed, not wasted. So, I think the
answer is that it is inevitable.
We've had good success, though, with
the Democratic Congress. The news media
and the people themselves have an exag-
gerated interest in the combat, the debate,
the differences, the disputes, even the
adverse votes in Congress. The positive
reaction of Congress to many of my pro-
posals, the achievements when Congress
approves the proposals and even the posi-
tive votes after a subcommittee votes no-
in the morning paper this will be on the
headline. If the full committee the next
day votes yes, this will not be on the front
page in the headlines. I don't say that to
criticize the news media, but to empha-
size that the general public's interest is in
the negative votes and the disputes.
So, even though we do have differences,
we achieve an adequate degree of har-
mony. I'm very jealous of the prerogatives
of the President; the congressional leaders
are jealous of the legislative prerogatives.
And when we have a serious difference,
of course, the courts make a decision or
the laws are changed. But this is part of
our system of government. I think it's a
good system.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. If tapes had been running all dur-
ing the 2 years of your administration,
which 18 minutes would you choose to
erase? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say first
of all that no tapes have been running—
[laughter] except when the microphone
is obvious, and the tapes will be made
public. We don't have tapes. I would
rather not answer that question on the
grounds that it might tend to incriminate
me. [Laughter] But it's a good question.
U.S. PRODUCTIVITY RATES
Q. Mr. President, on the topic of pro-
ductivity, what principal actions might
the U.S. take to stimulate innovation and
productivity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the productiv-
ity rate is still going up, quite slowly, un-
fortunately, 1 percent or less, whereas 7
or 8 years ago it was 3 percent per year.
Our country is going through an inevi-
table historical period when the produc-
tivity rate of increase is low. One reason
is that we have begun to correct a long-
standing defect in air and water pollu-
tion, where now, available supplies of fi-
nancial investment funds are being spent
not to increase production, but to improve
the quality of air and water and to lessen
the pollution effects. Once this is caught
up, then that same amount of money can
be used to increase productivity. Other
countries will have to do this later on if
they haven't already come to that aware-
ness.
Another factor is the health and safety
of our workers. In the past, I think we've
seen evolving a much deeper concern for
1415
