Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
text of your commitment to a free market
system and the ideals of a free society.
That commitment is even more signifi-
cant at a time when terrorist groups
wrongly believe that they can force free
societies to abandon our liberties. Our
two nations are steadfast in our resolve to
end the menace of terrorism and in our
resolute conviction that democratic lib-
erty and social justice are the best answers
to terrorist threats. The application of
civil protections in your exemplary basic
law is ample evidence of the Federal Re-
public's devotion to these libertarian
ideals.
The affinity between the Federal Re-
public and the United States goes well be-
yond our own bilateral interests, even well
beyond those of the Atlantic community.
Our nations understand the moral
force of democracy. This is the funda-
mental strength of the German-American
partnership. Our peoples understand the
meaning of fair access to opportunity and
just reward. These shared convictions
help us to face our problems in a spirit of
cooperation. They give us the tools and
the confidence to meet the challenges, dif-
ficult challenges of a modern society.
Our agenda--and the agenda for all
democracies-includes a renewed com-
mitment to global economic well-being.
This, more than any other material goal,
promises a future in keeping with the age-
old yearnings of mankind: an end to in-
equities among nations, as well as among
classes of citizens; a day when an inter-
dependent world of trade and commerce
can generate an adequate number of jobs,
better income, and a better life in the
poor two-thirds of the world; a day when
the continuing transfer of capital and
technology from rich to poorer countries
will have spread the benefits of the indus-
trialized nations throughout the under-
developed world.
This transfer of funds and services is
just as important to our own economic
health as it is to the well-being of the less-
developed countries. In 2 days, Chan-
cellor Schmidt and I will sit down with
our colleagues from the United Kingdom,
France, Canada, Italy, Japan, and the
European Commission to develop strate-
gies to achieve the goals which I have just
outlined. This will be the fourth eco-
nomic summit conference, and I approach
it with optimism.
Although we have not achieved all we
had hoped in the 14 months since the last
summit conference in London, I share
the feelings that were expressed there in a
very heartfelt way by Prime Minister
Fukuda. When we met at Downing Street
Depression, even the war in the Pacific,
last year, he reminded us that the Great
might have been prevented if world lead-
ers had met again after the breakdown of
the London Economic Conference in
1930, and suggested that while we may
not achieve all we hope for, we may pre-
vent more than we realize.
Let me say, first, that we meet acutely
aware that currency fluctuations, labor
migrations, crop failures, and a host of
other variables respect no political or geo-
graphical boundary; that every event that
once was isolated affects each aspect of
today's integrated, global economy. We
are mutually vulnerable to and totally
and equally dependent upon each other.
Together we must seek stable, nonin-
flationary growth and jobs for our people.
Together we must seek to expand and
to liberalize international trade policies
and to put an end to rising protectionist
sentiment.
Together we must seek a multilateral
trade agreement that enhances and not
obstructs world commerce.
Together we must seek to reduce en-
ergy consumption and to encourage en-
ergy exploration and production.
1287
