Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
which standards and ideals can be main-
tained and passed on from one election
to another, continuity in principle, dedi-
cation, consistency in purpose, a closeness
to one another.
That's why I think that I'm lucky to
be in Connecticut. That's why I think
that you're lucky to have Ella Grasso as
your present and future Governor.
The first time I met Ella, I don't think
she believed that I was going to be Presi-
dent, although I told her so. [Laughter]
She wanted to talk to me about my term
as Governor, because I had been success-
ful in reorganizing the structure of State
government. And she has taken 200 frag-
mented State agencies, and now she's
bringing them down to 22 major State
organizations which can do a better job
for you and save money.
I've seen her also inherit a $71 million
deficit, and she's changed that, over a
3-year period, to a $200 million surplus
that she's using to keep local property
taxes down. And I think this is the kind
of administration that I admire, that
appreciate, and that you want to have
continued.
you
She's a person who cares deeply about
people. She's worried about your govern-
ment, its structure, deficits, tax cuts. But
I think that when I came through Con-
necticut campaigning for 2 years, '75 and
'76, the overwhelming concern that I felt
in your State was about the strength of
our economy, the high and growing un-
employment rate.
When I became President, we had 10
million people in our country who were
looking for a full-time job and could not
find one. Over 7 million people could not
find a job at all, and I, the Congress, the
Governors, others began to work on this
serious problem.
We've had remarkable success. We've
added a net of 62 million new jobs in
our country, never before achieved, even
in time of war. And we've cut the unem-
ployment rate by 25 percent nationwide.
But in Connecticut, under Ella Grasso's
leadership, the unemployment rate has
been cut 50 percent. And the good thing
is that she's done it not by creating jobs
that are paid for by taxpayers, but by
creating new taxpayers, providing jobs in
the private industry sector.
She's brought in 260 new plants, fac-
tories, and employers just since she's been
in office. And this has been done with a
great care to invest favorably in the fu-
ture. She's been very careful not to cause
a deterioration in the quality of life for
those who live here. She hasn't lowered
standards or given special tax breaks to
bigshots in order to get jobs coming into
Connecticut.
She's not turned her back on the Con-
necticut people. She's given you and those
you care for a new chance in life, and she's
set kind of a standard for us to emulate
in Washington.
One of the things that I struggled for
most eagerly but unsuccessfully was a good
hospital cost containment bill. Ella Grasso
was able to get one in Connecticut, and
she's cut hospital costs 30 percent already.
Well, I've just about decided to ask her
to quit Connecticut and come to Wash-
ington to help me. But to show you how
much I think of Connecticut, I'm going
to sacrifice my own future administration
and let you keep her for 4 more years,
perhaps.
I'd like to mention not in passing but
in a very important way your own con-
gressional delegation. I think if there's one
person who has helped me more than any
other to control inflation in the House by
being a sound and mature statesman in
managing the fiscal affairs of Congress, it's
been Bob Giaimo.
As you know, he's on the Appropria-
tions Committee permanently, and he has
1888
