Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 1
thing with Federal deposits in banks that
happen to be owned by minority Amer-
icans.
We've passed legislation this past year,
which has been confirmed as legal by the
Supreme Court decision in the Bakke
case at least indirectly-requiring, for
instance, that in a public works program
that a certain portion of the contracts for
those public works projects had to be al-
lotted to minority American-owned busi-
nesses.
So, we have a continuing effort to make
sure that the affirmative action program
goes on in the Government. And I would
say that the Bakke decision confirms our
stand and leaves adequate option in the
future, not only in the university system
but in all levels of American life, for
affirmative action to be implemented and
racial discrimination to be reduced.
NUCLEAR POWER
Q. Mr. President, I'm sure that your
office was well aware of last weekend's
antinuclear demonstrations across the
country, particularly one in Seabrook,
New Hampshire, which drew some 15,000
participants.
In August of 1976 you stated that you
thought nuclear power, nuclear energy,
should only be a last resort. Yet your
administration continues to push for the
development of nuclear energy. Do you
feel that your administration is pushing
more for nuclear energy than to alternate
forms of energy, particularly solar and
hydroelectric, which, except for the TVA
project, seem to be more environmentally
feasible?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We have had a
dramatic change since I've been in office
in, for instance, the portion of research
and development funds that go to nuclear
power. We've reduced that substantially.
We've increased dramatically the portion
of research and development funds that
go into alternate forms of energy, the
various uses of coal, geothermal, solar
energy, and so forth.
What we have always said is that there
is a place for nuclear power. When the
needs of our Nation are met to the fullest
extent by conservation, by a shift from oil
and gas to coal, the continued use of
moderate amounts of oil and gas, en-
hanced use of geothermal supplies, greatly
increased use of solar, then the balance
should be filled in by nuclear power.
I do want to be sure that when a nu-
clear powerplant is proposed, that the
decision be made expeditiously, that
environmentalists and others have a
chance to have their case considered, and
that the siting of nuclear powerplants and
the design of nuclear powerplants, both
for compatibility with the surrounding
country, recreation areas, and so forth,
and also safety, is ensured.
We've never had in the past an ade-
quate program for controlling waste dis-
posal from nuclear powerplants. We've
tried to move on this. The Congress has
passed a nonproliferation act which is
now in effect, which is a major step in
the right direction. We have tried to ex-
pedite the licensing of nuclear power-
plants. The Congress is considering this.
So, I would say that we've got a very
well balanced program.
I've never thought that nuclear power-
plants should be abolished or prohibited.
There are some States that have that
desire. And when the people, through
the referendum or through the legisla-
ture, decide that they do not want nu-
clear powerplants placed in their State,
that's a prerogative that they can honor.
I think we've got a well-balanced pro-
gram now.
The main thing is that we still labor
under confusion about the present and
1231
