Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. Oh, no, no, no.
I would like to say a few words about
my friend, President Sadat. We met for
the first time in our lives last November in
Jerusalem. He came to us as a guest, a
former enemy, and during our first meet-
ing we became friends.
In the Jewish teachings, there is a tra-
dition that the greatest achievement of
a human being is to turn his enemy into
a friend, and this we do in reciprocity.
Since then, we had some difficult days.
[Laughter] I'm not going now to tell you
the saga of those days. Everything belongs
to the past. Today, I visited President Sa-
dat in his cabin, because in Camp David
you
don't have houses, you only have cab-
ins. [Laughter] And he then came to visit
me. We shook hands. And, thank God, we
again could have said to each other, "You
are my friend."
And, indeed, we shall go on working in
understanding, and in friendship, and
with good will. We will still have prob-
lems to solve. Camp David proved that
any problem can be solved if there is good
will and understanding and some, some
wisdom.
May I thank my own colleagues and
friends, the Foreign Minister, the Defense
Minister, Professor Barak, who was the
Attorney General-and now he is going to
be His Honor, the Justice of the Supreme
Court, the Israeli Brandeis-and Dr.
Rosenne, and our wonderful Ambassador
to the United States, Mr. Simcha Dinitz,
and all our friends, because without them
that achievement wouldn't have been
possible.
I express my thanks to all the members
of the American delegation, headed by
the Secretary of State, a man whom we
love and respect. And so, I express my
thanks to all the members of the Egyptian
delegation who worked so hard together
with us, headed by Deputy Prime Min-
ister, Mr. Touhamy, for all they have
done to achieve this moment. It is a great
moment in the history of our nations and,
indeed, of mankind.
I looked for a precedent; I didn't find
it. It was a unique conference, perhaps
one of the most important since the
Vienna Conference in the 19th century,
perhaps.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow
me to turn to my own people from the
White House in my own native tongue.
[At this point, the Prime Minister spoke briefly
in Hebrew.]
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
PRESIDENT CARTER. The first document
that we will sign is entitled, "A Frame-
work for Peace in the Middle East
Agreed at Camp David," and the texts of
these two documents will be released to-
morrow. The documents will be signed
by President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin, and it will be witnessed by me. We
have to exchange three documents, so
we'll all sign three times for this one.
[At this point, President Sadat, Prime Minister
Begin, and President Carter signed the first
document.]
I might say that the first document is
quite comprehensive in nature, encom-
passing a framework by which Israel can
later negotiate peace treaties between her-
self and Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, as well
as the outline of this document that we
will now sign.
And as you will later see, in studying
the documents, it also provides for the
realization of the hopes and dreams of the
people who live in the West Bank and
Gaza Strip and will assure Israel peace
in the generations ahead.
This second document is the one relat-
ing to a framework for a peace treaty be-
tween Egypt and Israel. This is the doc-
ument that calls for the completion of the
1522
