July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
three grandchildren who are very put
out, so you're going to have to see
them—and I wish to thank you, Mr. Pres-
ident, for the highest of Presidential
awards. You have honored our family,
and for this we are profoundly grateful.
To serve our beloved country is its own
reward. But to receive acknowledgement
of this service by this award, particularly
at your hands, Mr. President, is, I fear,
more than I merit.
Mr. President, you have put respect
for human rights and fundamental free-
doms high on the international agenda.
This respect will not be achieved over-
night, as you well knew, but it cannot be
denied, for it represents ultimate truth.
The poet John Milton said, "Give me
the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue
freely according to the conscience, above
all liberties. Though all the winds of doc-
trine were let loose to play upon the earth,
so truth be in the field. We do injuriously,
by prohibiting to misdoubt her strength.
Let her and falsehood grapple; whoever
knew truth to be put to the worse, in a
free and open encounter?"
That's the essence, I think, of human
rights.
Again, Mr. President, I want to thank
you for your support in my tenure as Am-
bassador at Large and Chairman of our
Delegation in Belgrade, and also express
my affectionate regards and appreciation
to the members of the CSC Commission,
its Director, to my friends of long stand-
ing in the State Department-Secretary
Vance, Under Secretary Christopher,
and their colleagues at the State Depart-
ment-Dr. Brzezinski and the staff of the
National Security Council, and others at
the White House for their
support of
my
tenure as Ambassador at Large and my
mission to Belgrade.
I thank you very much, Mr. President,
for this highest of honors.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Arthur's
son and grandchildren
couldn't get here because they were
bumped off a plane in Alaska. So he and
I are going to go inside and talk to them
by telephone now. But I'm very proud of
what this means to our country, and I
appreciate very much your coming to pay
your respects to a truly great American.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:33 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House.
In his opening remarks, Ambassador Gold-
berg referred to Warren M. Christopher, De-
puty Secretary, Matthew Nimetz, Counselor,
and Herbert J. Hansell, Legal Adviser, Depart-
ment of State; and Representative Dante B.
Fascell, Chairman, Senator Claiborne Pell, Co-
chairman, and R. Spencer Oliver, Director,
Commission on Security and Cooperation in
Europe.
United Service
Organizations, Inc.
Appointment of Two Members of the Board
of Governors and Four Members of the
Corporation. July 26, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of two persons as members of
the Board of Governors of the United
Service Organizations, Inc. (USO), and
four persons as members of the Corpora-
tion of the United Service Organizations,
Inc. They are:
Members of the Board of Governors of USO:
ROBERT K. CORN, of Papillion, Nebr., a real
estate developer and former postmaster of
Papillion;
MRS. AL ULLMAN, vice chair of the Multi-
ple Sclerosis Society and treasurer of the
Women's Democratic Forum;
Members of the Corporation of USO:
ROBERT C. ANDREWS, of Nashville, Tenn., an
Atlanta accountant;
1340
