Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 12
We have tried to convince them that
this is in the best interests of the world
economy and also in the best interests of
the OPEC nations themselves, to have a
stable world economy with a minimum of
inflation in the future. We're trying to set
a good example in our own Nation, both
in controlling inflation and also in stabiliz-
ing the value of the dollar on which the
price of oil is based. The countries in the
OPEC nations have suffered somewhat,
because for a time the dollar value was
going down very rapidly. It has recov-
ered since the first of November.
So, I would hope, first of all-to repeat
myself that there will be no increase in
the price of oil. If they must increase the
price of oil, I think it ought to be minimal
for their own benefit and for the benefit
of the world.
EMPLOYMENT AND REVENUE SHARING
PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, at the Memphis con-
vention some of the mayors expressed con-
cern over the possibility of sharp reduc-
tions in employment programs like the
CETA program. And also they expressed
concern over the possible lack of support,
not by you particularly, but by Congress,
for programs like the revenue sharing pro-
gram which is very important to the cities.
Do you foresee, keeping in mind you
haven't made your final budget decisions,
sharp reductions in either the CETA pro-
I don't think any administration has ever
had a closer consultative relationship with
the mayors than our own has had. In the
evolution of our urban policy earlier this
year, the mayors were full partners in the
process, along with Governors and
other and local officials.
So, I can't say. The revenue sharing
legislation is a multiyear authorization,
and we support the carrying out of the
revenue sharing at its present level until
this
present law expires. I can't foreclose
the possibility that it might be modified
in the future. My own attitude has al-
ways been that with a given amount for
revenue sharing, that a greater portion of
it should go to the cities and local gov-
ernments than to the States. That's one
modification in the revenue sharing laws
that I would espouse.
But the exact level of the CETA pro-
grams and other job programs will have
to be decided in the next couple of weeks,
and I personally favor as much as possible
keeping job opportunities open for Amer-
icans.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The President. Thank you, Frank.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-first news con-
ference began at 11 a.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
gram or in revenue sharing which is de- Budget Deferrals
voted to the cities?
THE PRESIDENT. It depends on what
you mean by sharp reductions. I have to
say that there will be some tightening of
the budget in almost every aspect of
American life. There will be some pro-
grams that will be expanded; others will
be basically kept at the same level. The
decisions have not yet been made. I'm
I'm
conversant with the problems of the cities.
Message to the Congress. December 12, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
two new deferrals totalling $663.8 million
and a revision to one previously trans-
mitted deferral increasing the amount
deferred by $.2 million in budget
authority. These items involve the for-
2227
