Oct. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
understanding.
passion, support, and understanding.
Families are the building blocks of civili-
zation. Our social and individual achieve-
ments, be they great or small, can gener-
ally be traced to early family influences.
Family values are our most fundamental
and lasting heritage.
Changing social patterns have threat-
ened family stability. In today's increas-
ingly complex world it is important to
maintain the values and continuity of
family life. All families are important, but
the extended family, the foster family and
the adoptive family play a special role by
relieving the isolation of those who lack
the comfort of a loving nuclear family.
Thus, National Family Week offers the
opportunity to pay special tribute to those
who open their homes and provide the
warmth of family life to those who would
otherwise be alone. We salute all families
as we focus attention this week on oppor-
tunities to restore their strength and help
them meet the challenges of contemporary
society.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in accordance with a joint resolution of
Congress, do hereby proclaim the week of
November 19, 1978, as National Family
Week and call upon the American people
to observe this week with appropriate
thoughts and actions in their houses and
communities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this twentieth day of Oc-
tober, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:29 a.m., October 23, 1978]
Thanksgiving Day, 1978
Proclamation 4607. October 20, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since 1621, the people of this country
have gathered each year to celebrate
with a feast their good fortune in their
continuing ability to provide for families
and friends.
On this Thanksgiving Day, we reaffirm
our faith in our heritage of freedom, and
our spirit of sharing.
In the spirit of Thanksgiving, Ameri-
cans humbly recognize how fortunate we
are to be strong as individuals, and as
a nation. It is that strength which allows
us to display compassion for those around
the world who face difficulties that our
forefathers, blessed with the American
land, were able to overcome.
While Providence has provided Ameri-
cans with fertile land and bountiful har-
vests, other nations and peoples have not
been so favored. Each year growing food
supplies give us greater cause for giving
thanks, yet one person in six worldwide
still suffers from chronic hunger and mal-
nutrition.
Two hundred years ago the Conti-
nental Congress proclaimed a day of
thanks, and asked for deliverance from
war. This year, let us observe Thanksgiv-
ing in the spirit of peace and sharing, by
declaring it a day of Thankful Giving, a
day upon which the American people
share their plenty with the hungry of other
lands.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in accordance with Section 6103 of Title
5 of the United States Code, do proclaim
Thursday, the 23rd of November, 1978,
as Thanksgiving Day.
1802
