Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We take care of each other. We share
the pleasures of a country life. We want
our children to have opportunities even
that we did not enjoy. And we want to
be sure that future generations can see a
nation that's strong and free, proud, de-
cent, honest.
We want our young people to grow up
and stay in the community and have
sound reasons for doing so. We want jobs
for them that are secure, exciting, fulfill-
ing, and that use the talent that God has
given each one of us.
That's why when I first came to Wash-
ington as President, about 20 months ago,
I was determined that the Federal Gov-
ernment would take certain stances,
would help rural development, help to
overcome the problems that we share, and
make sure that there's a full partnership
between Washington and the rest of the
country.
It's been a pleasure to work with these
men on the stage with me, with Gover-
nor Rockefeller and with Jennings Ran-
dolph and with Harley Staggers and with
Bob Byrd and with others in the West
Virginia congressional delegation. We
are working to make sure that West Vir-
ginia's great potential is realized.
It's been a special privilege for me to
admire for many years, to know and to
grow to understand and to appreciate
your senior Senator, Jennings Randolph.
I work with him every day. No State has
a more strong, vigorous, able, experienced,
dedicated spokesman for the things that
make our Nation great and strong. Nearly
everywhere you look in the United
States-in Georgia, in Hawaii, in Alaska,
California, New England, and of course,
here in West Virginia, you can see some-
thing that Jennings Randolph has done
for common, ordinary, average, good,
working American people.
He deserves credit for some of the most
far-reaching and exciting ideas that any
United States Senator has ever had. More
than 20 years ago, he sat down with a
roadmap of the United States and drew
on that map the lines that presently com-
prise the Interstate Highway System of
our Nation. He had the dream many years
before the Congress finally took action.
And all of us benefit from it.
He is the prime spokesman for the
programs that have made the disadvan-
taged, the unemployed, and the handicap-
ped people of our country enjoy a good
life. He's been a strong and stalwart
leader and protector of the integrity and
the reputation, the respect, and the well-
being of American veterans.
Like my own mother, one of the young-
est people on Earth, his youth and his
vigor have been used to help those who
are just getting started in life, or perhaps
have tried to get started and haven't been
able. It's not an accident that he was the
man, long before the Congress ever took
action, long before the Constitution of the
United States was ever amended, that
thought it was right for 18-year-old
American citizens to have a vote. If they
were able to fight and die, they ought to
have a vote. And it was Jennings Ran-
dolph who made this possible for our
whole country.
He deserves credit for preparing for
changing times. He's always had a vision
to look to the future, and he's also had the
experience and the competence and the
respect of his fellow Senators to let his
dreams come true for all of us. He's
helped us get through Congress steps to
evolve a national energy policy, and I
wish we had listened to him 20 years ago
when he first began to talk of this great
need.
We have a lot to be thankful for. One
of those is that he is a personal, good
friend. Mike Mansfield, who was the ma-
jority leader of the Senate after Lyndon
Johnson, before your own Bob Byrd, said
1730
