Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rows will have something to eat. [Laugh-
ter] But those of you who are assembled
tonight in this tremendous audience, the
biggest in history for a Black Caucus ban-
quet, I and my administration are try-
ing to put an end to the trickle-down
theory.
I'm very grateful that tonight we are
honoring the black churches. As all of you
may know, I grew up in the South.
[Laughter] And I've seen from my earliest
days a remarkable demonstration of the
interrelationship, within the black
churches, of a courageous stand for spirit-
ual progress and a courageous stand for
the progress of material things—a per-
son's body, an end to embarrassment
through racism, an end to poverty, an
end to hunger, an end to the war between
people in a country, an end to a war
between people in different countries.
This is the kind of thing that has always
been held high as a commitment of the
great black leaders of our Nation. Martin
Luther King, Jr., was the most famous,
a man who inspired us all. But he was one
among many during the time of his life,
and he inspired many who have come
along since him.
I'm not a preacher; I'm a farmer. But
I thought this evening it might be good
I tried to think of a theme for my talk,
which is going to be fairly brief-but I
thought if you wouldn't mind, I would
use a text―[laughter]—that would signify
very clearly what I want to talk about
tonight.
This comes from the 25th Chapter of
Matthew, the words of Jesus talking about
a king: "Then shall He say also unto
them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye
cursed, unto everlasting fire, prepared for
the devil and his angels: For I was hungry,
and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty,
and ye gave me no drink; I was a stranger,
and
ye took me not in; I was naked, and
ye clothed me not; and in prison, and
ye visited me not. Then shall they also
answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we
thee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or
naked, or sick, or imprisoned, and did not
minister unto thee? Then shall he answer
them, saying, Verily I say unto you, inas-
much as ye did it not unto one of the
least of these, ye did it not to me. And
these shall go away unto everlasting pun-
ishment: but the righteous into life
eternal.”
The Black Caucus who serve in Con-
gress, still in the minority, have been in-
spired to courageous action, unity in the
face of pressure, tenacity in the face of
discouragement, because they believe in
these principles. And they see themselves
uniquely responsible not only for all
Americans but particularly for those who
have been hungry and thirsty and alone
and in prison and naked.
This has given them strength to carry
on in the tradition of the great black
leaders of this Nation who have held high
a banner which has made us all some-
times ashamed and then proud of our
achievements together.
The American Government is one of
the greatest institutions on Earth, an in-
stitution that is lumbering on occasion,
frustrating on occasion, confused on occa-
sion. But it derives its strength and it de-
rives its direction in a time of crisis from
those who are strong willed and whose
commitments never falter and whose aims
are sure and whose goals are clear.
I've been in office 20 months, in the
highest elected office, perhaps, in the
whole world. And I have forged to my
own benefit as President, to the benefit of
those in the minority in this country, and
to the benefit of all American people, a
good alliance with the members of the
Black Caucus, and I'm thankful for it.
When I took office a few months ago,
our country had the highest unemploy-
ment rate since the Great Depression.
1680
