Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 25
When I ran for President, a lot of peo-
ple laughed at me. And still, jokes are
made because I said that I want a gov-
ernment as good as our people, and a lot
of people said we wouldn't have a very
good government. That's not true, be-
cause among the American people there's
a basic honesty, a basic decency, a basic
unselfishness that's waiting to be tapped
even more deeply. And I think that you
and I, as Democrats, have a great deal
to expect, because we'll have an even bet-
ter future than we already have in the
greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:26 p.m. at the
Aladdin Shrine Temple. In his opening re-
marks he referred to Paul Tipps, chairman of
the Democratic Party in Ohio, John C. White,
chairman of the Democratic National Com-
mittee, Jim Bauman, Ohio State representative
and Democratic candidate for the U.S. Con-
gress, and Henry Eckhard, former chairman
of the Public Utilities Commission in Ohio.
World Bank Group and
International Monetary Fund
Remarks at the Opening Session of the Annual
Meetings of the Boards of Governors.
September 25, 1978
Mr. Chairman, Managing Director de-
Larosiere, President McNamara, Gov-
ernors of the Fund and the Bank, and
distinguished visitors:
On behalf of the American people, I
want to welcome you to Washington again
for your 33d annual meeting.
We meet as a group, dedicated to the
cause of international cooperation. In the
political field, you and I share the belief
that cooperation among leaders can lead
to peace. We've learned that lesson once
again in the last few days. And I know
that you will join me in saluting the states-
manship and the courage of President
Anwar Sadat and Prime Minister Mena-
hem Begin.
in
Your tremendous influence as leaders
your own nations can contribute greatly
to maintaining the momentum toward
peace, both in the Middle East and
throughout the world. In the economic
field, also, cooperation brings large bene-
fits to the people who look to us for
leadership.
Three decades of existence of the Fund
and the Bank have brought progress and
a better life for the people of the world.
Like you, I want to build on that record
to achieve still further economic coopera-
tion, progress, and a better life. Since your
meeting here last year, our countries, act-
ing together, have made tangible progress
on world economic problems.
The issues that remain, as you and I
well know, are very difficult. But they, like
other difficult questions, are not insoluble.
You assembled in this room are the eco-
nomic leaders of the world. The task be-
fore you is to consolidate past gains and
then to push ahead in ways that will foster
economic growth in both developing and
the industrialized nations.
Our goal is to achieve progress for
all peoples, not just a few. The basic strat-
egy has already been agreed. In Mexico
City, at the IMF Interim Committee,
agreement was reached on the general di-
rections that economic policy should take.
Progress on those agreements has been
made. The outlook for improvement is
good. We must not falter. A contribution
to this strategy is needed from every coun-
try represented here, no matter how great
nor small, no matter how weak nor power-
ful.
In this effort, the United States has a
major responsibility. Two months ago at
Bonn, I made specific promises to our ma-
jor trading partners about the actions that
my country will take to this end. I pledged
that the United States will fight inflation,
1627
