Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
came to Georgia to campaign with my
mother, Lillian, and my wife, Rosalynn.
Bob Short, who will be your next Sena-
tor, was there running the nationwide
campaign for Hubert Humphrey to be
Vice President—a close friend, a loyal
friend who came into the South to say,
"We've got a man from Minnesota in
whom you can have trust.”
This was a fine demonstration of
leadership, and of course, our Nation's
loss came when Hubert Humphrey was
not elected President in 1968 because the
Democratic Party was divided. And be-
cause the Democratic Party could not
heal its wounds after the 1968 convention
in Chicago, Hubert Humphrey was not
elected President. And Richard Nixon
was elected President. That should have
taught Democrats a lesson.
People are different. Fritz Mondale is
different from me. You've got candidates
running for Congress, some from the
northern part of Minnesota who might be
quite conservative on some issues, some
from the cities who might be identified as
quite liberal. The U.S. Senate candidates
are different from one another, but there's
a basic underlying commitment of the
Democratic Party that does not change.
And as President I have stood there in the
White House with Fritz Mondale many
times and recognized that only because of
party loyalty and a common purpose and
a common commitment and common
ideals and common beliefs, could we
prevail. And the Democratic candidates
and the Democratic Members of Con-
gress from the South or the West or the
North, in a time of trial for our country,
domestic or foreign trials, have a tend-
ency to stand together.
And I would like to urge you, if I don't
do anything else while I'm here, to re-
member Hubert Humphrey, to remember
what happened to him when our party
was divided, to remember what he stood
for, to remember his friends and commit
yourselves now to give the Democratic
candidates a tremendous victory on No-
vember 7. That's what I want you to do.
Will you do it? Will you do it? [Applause]
Very good.
We still enjoy Hubert Humphrey's
legacy. The Humphrey-Hawkins bill will
give us a chance on the one side to put
Americans to work. We've had remark-
able success in the last 20 months. The
unemployment rate in Minnesota has
been cut to less than half what it was.
You've got an unbelievably low unem-
ployment rate. But the Humphrey-Hawk-
ins bill is now ready to reach out, to give
other people who are hard to employ, the
last ones hired, the first ones fired, a de-
cent chance in life. And at the same time
it commits us to careful planning for the
future, not just to control unemployment
but to control inflation, to work together
with the Congress, the President, Gover-
nors, mayors, employers, workers, farm-
ers, to say, "What can we do to bring
down both unemployment and also infla-
tion at the same time and engender in our
country a better use of the tremendous re-
sources, human and natural resources
that God gave us?"
I want particularly to mention today,
Senator Wendell Anderson. He and I were
elected Governor together. We served to-
gether for 4 years, a bright, young, shin-
ing star among the 50 Governors of our
Nation. But it's remarkable what he has
accomplished since he's been in the
Senate.
The problems that I face are broad.
Energy has been one of the most difficult,
challenging, complicated, confusing issues
we ever faced. We've never had an energy
policy before. Wendy Anderson just hap-
pens to serve on the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee. And he was one of
those in the Senate who was able, work-
ing with Scoop Jackson and others, to
1823
