Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 10
I am signing this act, however, because
of the strengthening of these other child
nutrition programs and because of WIC's
success in improving the health of low-
income pregnant and nursing women and
young children. It has reduced anemia
and the number of underweight infants
at birth, and has dramatically reduced
infant mortality rates. The WIC program
is fully consistent with my commitment
to preventive health measures and may
actually reduce hospital expenditures and
Medicaid costs.
I am nevertheless signing the bill be-
cause key members of the House and
Senate committees have assured me that
they will promptly enact a reduction of at
least $50 million in the 1980 entitlement
and will actively explore other cost-saving
reforms. The Secretary of Agriculture is
already preparing several of these reforms
which I will submit in my budget and leg-
islative program to the next Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3085 is Public Law 95-
627, approved November 10.
Appropriations Bill for
the Pennsylvania Avenue
Development Corporation
Statement on Signing S. 1829 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
I am signing today S. 1829, a bill which
authorizes appropriations for the Penn-
sylvania Avenue Development Corpora-
tion (PADC) for fiscal years 1979 through
1983. The bill also provides PADC with
other authorities that will facilitate carry-
ing out the Pennsylvania Avenue develop-
ment plan.
This action underscores my commit-
ment to the preservation and enhance-
ment of one of our Nation's most his-
toric streets. I am confident that the co-
operative efforts of the Pennsylvania Ave-
nue Development Corporation, the Con-
gress, the government and people of the
District of Columbia, and the American
business community will result in the revi-
talization of this area and will demon-
strate what can be achieved when the
public and private sectors unite for a
common purpose.
I am however concerned because the
provisions of this bill establishing the San
Antonio Missions National Historical
Park would lead to unacceptable entan-
glements of the Federal Government in
the operations of active churches. I have
therefore directed Secretary Andrus to
consider implementation of the portions
of the bill relating to restoration and
maintenance of the Missions only if they
pass into secular ownership and use.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1829 is Public Law 95-
629, approved November 10.
Consumer Product
Safety Commission
Statement on Signing S. 2796 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
Today I am signing S. 2796, a bill
which provides continuing authorization
for the Consumer Product Safety Com-
mission and makes certain amendments
in that Agency's authority.
The Consumer Product Safety Com-
mission has had a troubled 5-year his-
tory, but it has a crucial mission: to pro-
tect Americans' health and safety. In con-
sidering this legislation, the administra-
tion and Congress reviewed the problems
faced by this Agency and decided to ex-
tend its life for 3 additional years. At the
end of that period, there will be a "sun-
set" review. The CPSC has new, vigorous
leadership, and this bill gives it more
2001
