Dec. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And in the process our Nation certain-
ly will not be diminished in the process.
Let me thank you, again, for being
willing to come here. The program will
be described to you in some detail later
on. You'll get a briefing on the East-West
relationships and the North-South rela-
tionships that presently exist between our
country and others. You'll be able not
only to learn about the embryonic pro-
gram but also, hopefully, to give advice,
counsel, and constructive criticisms. I
think that as we evolve the final arrange-
ments for the program, your voices will
be very valuable to us all. Your institu-
tions are great in themselves. I hope this
program will add to their greatness.
Thank you, again, for letting me par-
ticipate. I know Hubert Humphrey, a
great man, a great American, would be
proud if he knew about what is going on
today, and my belief is that he knows.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:16 p.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
John E. Reinhardt is Director of the Interna-
tional Communication Agency.
For an announcement on the meeting and the
scholarship program, see page 2038 of this
volume.
New York City, New York
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner for Former
New York City Mayor Abraham Beame.
December 5, 1978
With me, Abe Beame stands very tall.
[Laughter]
Several people have asked me why I
would leave the White House and come
to New York this evening. As a matter of
fact, Alfred Kahn was supposed to come.
And he got his invitation, and he called
me and said, “Mr. President, I've just
discovered that a meal and an opera
ticket in New York is now up to $2,500.
And I think this is one situation you ought
to handle personally." [Laughter]
I've come because of my admiration
and appreciation for Abe Beame. He
joined in a unique circumstance that took
place in New York City a couple of years
ago, where great and profound decisions
were made that benefited New York City
and our country. The invitation to the
Democratic National Convention to come
here was one of those decisions, and the
decision made by the Democratic Na-
tional Convention after they got here was
the other one. [Laughter] But I'm very
proud of what you did for me.
I had a chance to visit with Abe Beame
many times, both during and after that
convention session. When I was a rela-
tively unknown candidate whom no one
had the temerity to support publicly, I
had a warm reception from Abe Beame.
And he was always willing to take a half
hour or an hour with his top staff mem-
bers, either at City Hall or in Gracie Man-
sion, to sit down with me, just on the
chance that I might have some influence
in the future, to explain to me the most
serious questions on his mind. He is the
most unselfish political figure that I have
ever known. Never once have I ever
heard him even insinuate a request for
anything that would benefit Abe Beame.
It was always New York City alone.
It was a very impressive performance,
because he knew the dismal prospects at
that time. He was frustrated when he
turned his eyes and his heart and his hand
to Washington. And I know that in those
early days of the campaign, he not only
talked to me but talked to other Demo-
cratic candidates as well about how des-
perately New York City needed a new
2160
