Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
Well, let me say I appreciate a chance
to meet with you and discuss subjects in
more depth. I've taken more time to an-
swer your questions this morning than I
would at a press conference. But if you
all think that these kind of sessions are
beneficial, talk to Jody about it, and I'd
be glad to do it additionally in the fu-
ture.
I thank you all very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. POWELL. Let me ask, before every-
one gets away, if you would, we're mak-
ing this announcement on the Guadeloupe
trip right away. If you didn't mind just
holding onto that, particularly the wires,
for just a few minutes, let me walk in
there and make that announcement. We
did it here so you'd have a chance to
explore it in a little more depth. I was
glad to see that you availed yourselves
of that gracious opportunity. [Laughter]
If don't mind doing that, I'd appre-
ciate it.
you
NOTE: The interview began at 8:50 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Constitutional Referendum
in Spain
Statement by the President.
December 7, 1978
All people who love freedom and be-
lieve in democracy won a victory in Spain
yesterday.
The Spanish electorate decisively ap-
proved in a national referendum the draft
democratic constitution placed before
them by their elected parliamentary rep-
resentatives. This occasion marks the cul-
mination of courageous and determined
efforts by the Spanish people, their repre-
sentatives, and King Juan Carlos to es-
tablish a framework for Spanish democ-
racy which meets with the approval of
all Spaniards.
The success of the transition to democ-
racy in Spain, and the manifest will of
Spaniards across the political spectrum to
establish a democratic system, have
earned the admiration of people the world
over who share similar ideals.
Yesterday's referendum symbolizes a
remarkable and praiseworthy achieve-
ment. We want to congratulate the Span-
ish people on this occasion, and to re-
affirm the hope and support of the Ameri-
can people and their government for con-
tinued success in this historic effort.
NOTE: On December 8, the White House
announced that the President had spoken that
afternoon by telephone with King Juan Carlos
of Spain to express personal congratulations on
the new Spanish constitution and on the wise
and courageous role that the King has played
in Spain's transition to democracy.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. December 7, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
ten new deferrals of budget authority to-
talling $110.6 million and four revisions
to previously transmitted deferrals in-
creasing the amount deferred by $3.3
million. The items involve the military
education and training program and pro-
grams in the Departments of Agriculture,
the Interior, State, and the Treasury,
and several independent agencies.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
December 7, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of De-
cember 13, 1978.
2183
