Dec. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
age him to move expeditiously in the con-
summation of U.N. Resolution 435, which
would grant independence to Namibia,
following free and democratic elections to
be supervised by the United Nations. He's
now going back to get further instructions
from Prime Minister-who also happens
to be named Botha, as you know.
This afternoon I'll be meeting with the
Prime Minister of Egypt, Mr. Kahlil, who
is bringing to me a personal message from
President Sadat. And following that meet-
ing, we will decide how to persist most
effectively in the conclusion of a peace
treaty between Egypt and Israel.
As I said in my press conference yester-
day, I've been discouraged and disap-
pointed at the slow progress following the
Camp David accords in bringing to final-
ity a treaty text, with all the ancillary
documents that go with it. But we will be
persistent in this effort, tenacious. And the
one bright spot in the entire process is that
I'm convinced that both the Egyptian and
the Israeli people want peace between
themselves.
And we are operating under a handi-
cap, because it's very difficult to negotiate
with leaders who are far distant from me.
I can't consult with them simultaneously
on a given paragraph or phrase or issue.
And unfortunately, to an increasing de-
gree, the negotiations have taken place
through the news media, which in effect
makes any backing down on a statement
made by a Foreign Minister or a nego-
tiator or a Prime Minister or a President
almost a matter of violation of national
honor, rather than the quiet negotiation
that we did impose at Camp David.
Although discouraged, I've certainly
not given up on the prospect for the
treaty to be concluded.
peace
I think that there are other matters
that I could go over with you, concerning
China, negotiations on Philippines bases,
trying to prevent bloodshed in Nicaragua,
and so forth. But I think that we might
best spend our time with my answering
your questions. And I am very delighted
to have you here.
John [John Pruitt, WXIA-TV, Atlan-
ta, Ga.]—I'll pull my rank and call on a
Georgian first. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. John, good to see you.
QUESTIONS
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Following up on the Middle East
statement you made, what is your per-
sonal reaction to President Sadat's state-
ment that he will not go to Oslo to accept
the Nobel Peace Prize? Are you person-
ally disappointed by that, and what im-
plications does that have to the peace
process?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not surprised that
President Sadat will not go to Oslo. I
think had the peace treaty been signed
prior to December 10, or whatever the
date is, that he would have gone. He will
send a representative to receive the prize
for him. But I don't think it has any par-
ticular extra connotation, other than the
obvious one, that to receive the peace
prize for bringing about a treaty between
Israel and Egypt, absent a conclusion of
the treaty, he considers to be inappropri-
ate.
I don't think it has any far-reaching
connotations that further aggravate the
already difficult situation.
Q. Do you think the two can maybe get
together again to resolve this?
THE PRESIDENT. That's always an ulti-
mate possibility. I think they both see
that there must be some substantive
pros-
pect of success before they get together
again. We did not have that substantive
prospect of success when they met at
Camp David. But I think it was an abso-
2150
