Nov. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mation will continue to be protected after
the 12-year period under Executive order
and the relevant Freedom of Information
Act exemptions.
Even though the bill does not take effect
until January 1981, I will ensure that the
Presidential papers created during my
current term will be preserved and made
available as part of the rich historical rec-
ord for future generations of scholars.
I wish to commend Congressmen John
Brademas, Jack Brooks, Richardson Prey-
er, and Frank Thompson, and Senators
Abraham Ribicoff, Gaylord Nelson, and
Charles Percy for their leadership on be-
half of this legislation.
Last week, I signed into law the Ethics
in Government Act, which will require
financial disclosure on the part of high-
level Government officials and will sub-
ject the President and Vice President and
others to the scrutiny of a Special Prose-
cutor if substantial allegations of criminal
misconduct are ever made. The Presiden-
tial Records Act of 1978 carries forward
my commitment to making sure that our
Government is not above the law, and
merits the trust of the people from whom
a President and his Government derive
their power.
NOTE: A enacted, H.R. 13500 is Public Law
95-591, approved November 4.
Friendship Force From Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany
Remarks on Greeting the Berlin Citizens on
Their Arrival in the United States.
November 7, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Ambassador von Sta-
den,
Chairman Max Schmeling-
where's-
ALFRED INGENWERTH. [Referring to
Mr. Schmeling] He is not on board.
THE PRESIDENT. He's not on board.
MR. INGENWERTH. I am the flight di-
rector [inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Well, we heard
that he's done a great job in arranging
this flight. We're very proud that you
could come.
My wife and I have had a chance to
visit West Berlin twice. Both times we
were received with open arms, friendship,
hospitality, and warmth. And we are very
grateful that you have come to our coun-
try to learn about us and to see if we could
respond with an equal amount of hospi-
tality and friendship to you.
This is a very fine opportunity for the
great people of West Germany and the
great people of the United States to know
one another better. We are very grateful
also that the Friendship Force idea,
which is my wife, Rosalynn's idea, has
been carried out so successfully during the
last 16 months.
We've now had 18 exchanges between
our country and foreign nations, involving
more than 20,000 people, and your sup-
port of this program has been a very good
demonstration of how valuable it is.
When I was in Berlin for the town
meeting, many of the people in the audi-
ence had been to our country in the form-
er Friendship Force flight. And their en-
thusiasm for the exchange was very in-
spirational to us.
I hope that while you are here, not only
would you receive the welcome of my-
self as President, my wife, Rosalynn, and
our family, but also your host families,
whom I'm sure you will grow to know and
to love, and also the people of the United
States.
This is an important night to us. It's
our election night. We're choosing about
35 Senators and 435 Members of our
House of Representatives, I think 36 Gov-
ernors, and many members of our State
Legislatures. So, perhaps when you get to
your host family, you will see how the
1966
