Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We're still at it, and HEW is setting the
pace.
Last year, I asked the heads of the de-
partments and agencies to improve their
audit coordination and to increase their
reliance on State and local audits when-
ever possible. A governmentwide effort,
led by the Office of Management and
Budget and the General Accounting Of-
fice, has now come up with a break-
through in auditing federally assisted pro-
grams a single guide to replace the al-
most 100 now in use.
We need to bring the same kind of
simplicities to our public assistance pro-
grams. Today, the welfare system of just
one State eats up 3 billion pieces of paper
each year and has a thousand different
forms. One woman seeking economic aid
in another State had to spend 300 hours
in 1 year just filling out paperwork to
document her needs.
For this reason, I'm asking today Jim
McIntyre and Joe Califano to head a
major effort to simplify and to streamline
the hundreds of complex eligibility re-
quirements which contribute $3 billion
each year to the cost of public assistance
and other human service programs-an
administrative cost over and above what
actually goes to the recipients. We will
move to simplify these procedures where
it really counts, not only at the Federal
but at the State and local level.
Where we have the tools to root out
for the discovery, the prevention, and the
elimination of fraud. They have broad
powers and a significant degree of inde-
pendence.
I will choose these Inspectors General
carefully. I want them to match the high
standard set by Tom Morris, the first In-
spector General that I appointed at HEW,
who has helped save the American tax-
payers one-half billion dollars since the
beginning of 1977.
I've already directed Jim McIntyre to
oversee the systems which the Inspectors
General will run. I want to be sure that in
each department covered by the law, the
auditing and investigative functions are
meshed in a smooth and effective way.
And today I'm taking a further step. I
have already directed that significant fea-
tures of the Inspectors General program
be extended not just in those 12 depart-
ments and agencies but throughout the
Federal Government. Each agency and
department will prepare a plan for elim-
inating waste and fraud in its own activi-
ties and will designate a single official to
be responsible for and to oversee the prep-
aration and the implementation of that
plan. I've assigned the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget responsibility for over-
seeing this effort.
I'm looking to the Attorney General to
ensure that investigations by Inspectors
General and their counterparts in other
fraud and abuse, we have already put agencies and bureaus are effectively co-
them to work. Where those tools did not
exist, we are now creating them.
Perhaps the most important new tools
in the fight against fraud are the In-
spectors General created in six depart-
ments and six other agencies of the Fed-
eral Government by an act of Congress,
which we strongly supported and which I
signed into law 8 weeks ago. The Inspec-
tors General will be a powerful new tool
ordinated with other investigative and
prosecutorial activities, so that criminal
matters receive immediate and efficient
attention.
The fight against waste and fraud will
require the best efforts of us all—every-
one in this room, every Federal, State, and
local official, every citizen of our coun-
try. New programs and better enforce-
ment will certainly help. But our most
2232
