Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
can let good employees be rewarded, bad
ones be better, let managers manage, get
a better return on your investments in
government, provide better services for
our people. We win all along. And that's
part of what the Democratic Party is try-
ing to do.
I believe in balanced budgets. I don't
believe in wasting money, and I believe
I represent in my own beliefs what most
Democrats also want to see in Wash-
ington.
When I was running for President in
1976, the Federal deficit was over $60 bil-
lion, $66 billion. And I resolved to do
something about it. My first budget that I
presented to the Congress was in the fifties
of billions of dollars. The next budget was
in the forties of billions of dollars. That's
the one Congress is working on now-we
might get a little under forty. In 1980,
the fiscal year that I'm preparing now,
it's going to be well down in the low
thirties. We're bringing the budget down
into balance and, at the same time, we're
not cutting short on the delivery of serv-
ices. We're providing the needs of Amer-
ica, and that's what Democrats have al-
ways stood for.
As I said this afternoon at the airport,
I believe in a strong defense. I
spent 11
years of my life in the Navy, at the Naval
Academy, on battleships, in submarines.
And I know that throughout the world,
people depend on us to be strong enough
militarily so that no other nation can suc-
cessfully even hope to challenge the
United States of America. But there's
more to strength than just military weap-
ons. We've got to keep the weapons,
but strength also comes from being a
clean nation, a decent nation, a truthful
nation.
And I think you all remember that in
the last few years, we had lost that repu-
tation. In Vietnam, and with Watergate,
and with the CIA revelations where they
had violated the law, a lot of people began
to lose confidence in us, and we began to
lose confidence in ourselves. But I think
with the close coordination of a Demo-
cratic President and a Democratic Con-
gress, we've begun to repair that damage.
And I think it's accurate to say that all
over the world now there's not a single
head of a nation, whether they serve in a
totalitarian society or a democratic society,
that every day they don't think about basic
human rights are they treating their
own people fairly? And this has been like
raising a banner around which we could
rally once more and of which our friends
and we both could be proud.
And, of course, we believe in peace. I'm
proud that in the last 20 months or so
we've not had a single American soldier
lose a drop of blood in a foreign war. And
I hope when I go out of office, we still can
say the same thing. But that's peace
through strength, not weakness.
So, you can see that I'm prejudiced on
behalf of the Democratic Party and what
it stands for. But we've got our problems.
We don't claim to know all the answers.
Sometimes, even in a State like yours, the
Democratic Party has not worked as a
team. I've been disappointed not too
many years ago to see Republicans, in
effect, take over in your State. But now
we've come back.
And I would like to ask you tonight, as
a special request from the President of the
United States and the titular head of the
Democratic Party, to resolve in your own
minds and hearts to try to repair that
damage that has occurred in the past.
You've already demonstrated by coming
here tonight that you believe in the same
things that I believe in. But I hope that
you will leave here tonight committed to
making sure that we have two Democratic
Senators in Washington next January.
It's not going to be easy. I recognize
that. But if every one of you would not
only be satisfied with what you've done
tonight with a contribution—that didn't
1581
