Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 27
the Government, and we are doing it—
not overnight; it took a long time to create
the mess that we inherited, and we can't
eliminate it in 1 year. But we'll get rid
of it, and you can depend on that.
Two years ago I promised the Ameri-
can people that we would get control of
our runaway energy problem. It's been
the most difficult legislative task, I be-
lieve, that the Congress has ever under-
taken in the history of our Nation. And
at long last we are getting the tools to do
this job. I was excited by the work that
Scoop Jackson has done in the Senate
and others who worked with him.
Two years ago I promised the Ameri-
can people that we would revitalize our
educational system and to focus the at-
tention of it on the poor and the deprived
children who haven't had an adequate
chance in life, whose parents perhaps are
illiterate and haven't had the will or
the motivation or the vision to inspire
those little kids. Even compared to the
halcyon days of Lyndon Johnson, the Con-
gress has voted the largest increases in
funds for school and education in history,
and it's focused accurately on those who
need it most.
Two years ago when I campaigned
around this country, the common question
asked me by almost every group that had
elderly citizens in it is, "How are we going
to deal with a bankrupt social security sys-
tem?" I promised them that we would
act responsibly and restore integrity to
that system, and we've kept that promise.
It hasn't been easy, politically speaking,
but we've done it.
Two years ago I said my administra-
tion would have an urban policy for the
first time to revitalize our cities, to inspire
the mayors and Governors and others, pri-
vate citizens, in a new partnership. And
we have that policy now.
Two years ago I told the American
people that we had to bring our Federal
budget under control. The last full year
before my election in 1976, the budget
deficit was $66 billion. We cut that deficit
the first year to $51 billion. We'll get it
down, with the great help of the Con-
gress, at least to $40 billion this year, may-
be a little lower. And we're going to cut
it significantly further next year. And
we're going to keep right on cutting the
budget deficit with good management
and sound programs as fast as the strength
of the economy permits. We've kept that
promise without yielding our commitment
to let Americans have a better life.
One of the biggest problems we in-
herited, as you well know, was 10 million
American adults who could not find a full-
time job, 6 or 7 million who couldn't find
a job at all. In just the short period of a
year and a half, we've had a net increase
of about 62 million full-time jobs in the
United States. The unemployment rate
has dropped 25 percent in that short time,
and we're going to keep it going down.
And you ought to realize that we have
cut the budget deficit, given jobs, better
education, strengthened our defenses. At
the same time, last year we had a multi-
billion dollar tax cut, and we have on
schedule now another tax cut for the
That is the kind of fiscal responsibility
American people of about $20 billion.
that American people deserve, to meet
our people's needs while balancing the
Nation's books.
Of course, Democrats have always be-
lieved in service, but carefully budgeted,
efficiently delivered service. We can cut
crime, we can build roads, we can deliver
jobs, we can feed our people without huge
deficits if we eliminate the waste and the
bloat in government. This is responsible
leadership. This is sound fiscal policy, and
the American people know it.
1649
