Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 8
U.S. firms may engage in certain non-stra-
tegic types of trade with Cuba under
Treasury license.
In light of these considerations, pur-
suant to Public Law 95-223, I have ex-
tended the exercise of these authorities
1979.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
The Foreign Funds Control Regula- for another year, until September 14,
tions, 31 CFR Part 520, continue to block
the property of Czechoslovakia and the
German Democratic Republic pending a
claims settlement program with those
countries for the illegal expropriation of
private American property following
World War II. The Regulations also con-
tinue to block such assets of Estonia, Lat-
via, and Lithuania as a reflection of the
U.S. policy of nonrecognition of the forc-
ible incorporation of those countries into
the U.S.S.R.
I have determined that these four reg-
ulatory programs should be extended be-
cause the results attendant upon the lapse
of these authorities would be unacceptable
in light of present U.S. foreign policy ob-
jectives. Their extension would be in the
national interest of the United States for
the following reasons:
(1) Current trade and financial em-
bargoes against Cuba, North Korea, Viet-
nam, and Cambodia should be continued
until appropriate political changes occur
with respect to our relations with those
countries.
(2) The Transaction Control Regula-
tions are needed to support controls to
which we have agreed with our allies with
respect to the export of strategic goods to
Communist countries.
(3) Freezing of Chinese, Vietnamese,
and Cuban assets and controls over the re-
maining World War II assets of the Ger-
man Democratic Republic and Czechoslo-
vakia should continue until American
claims against these countries are settled.
Controls over the remaining World War
II assets of the Baltic States should con-
tinue as a reflection of the U.S. policy of
nonrecognition of the forcible incorpora-
tion of these countries into the U.S.S.R.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
September 4
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-General Services Administrator Joel
W. Solomon and Deputy Attorney
General Benjamin R. Civiletti.
September 51
The President greeted President Anwar
al-Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister
al-Sadat of Egypt
Menahem Begin of Israel on their sepa-
rate arrivals at Camp David, Md.
1 EDITOR'S NOTE: The informal nature of the
meetings at Camp David precluded the an-
nouncement of daily Presidential schedules by
the White House Press Office. Only those meet-
ings and their participants which were an-
nounced have been included.
1505
