Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I have personally met with 20 heads of
state in this hemisphere. And this shows
the degree of my interest and the degree
of time that I invest in this effort, because
it's very important for me, before I meet
with the chief of a nation, to know as
much as I can about his people and the
problems and past history and interrela-
tionships, diplomatic exchanges that have
taken place or might take place in the
future. But it's been a very productive
thing for me.
The biggest cancer that was growing
that threatened to destroy our relation-
ship with all the nations to the south was
the Panama Canal treaties. We looked
upon and look upon the building of the
Panama Canal as one of the greatest en-
gineering achievements of all times; as
a very benevolent thing that we did, not
only for the benefit of ourselves but for
the nations in Latin America, and indeed,
all the world. And that's true.
But the times have passed when a major
nation like ours could, in effect, control
permanently territory that divided two
parts of a sovereign nation from one an-
other. And this negotiation had been
going on 14 years. Although my predeces-
sors had better political judgment than I
did and delayed it until the next one took
over, but [laughter]—we decided to ad-
dress it.
At the time, as you may have noticed,
a public opinion poll by the Foreign Af-
fairs Institute done by Gallup showed
that only 8 percent of the American peo-
ple favored the consummation of the Pan-
ama Canal Treaty. It was the most
difficult political undertaking of my life,
including even my campaign for the
Presidency itself. And to achieve a two-
thirds vote in the Senate on a matter that
has no positive political benefit, but a
lot of very negative political repercus-
sions in some States, was a remarkable
display of courage on the part of the U.S.
Senate.
We still have a way to go. All our prob-
lems have not been resolved yet, even con-
cerning the Canal treaties. But we've laid
the groundwork now for a new image of
the United States among all of our Latin
American friends.
The other thing I would like to men-
tion in particular is the human rights is-
sue. I think it would be a mistake for me
or anyone else in our country to try to
take credit for the changes that have been
made. But I do think that we have helped
to dramatize the importance of basic hu-
man rights in the dealing of all leaders, in
our country and other nations of the
world, particularly in Latin America, to-
wards the constituents who have to trust
them for the nations' guidance.
In the past, as you know, there have
been gross violations of human rights in
some of those countries, and also gross
violations of human rights in our own
country. We've made some progress since
the early sixties and fifties in removing
some of these embarrassing elements of
our own societal structure. And we've been
trying to promote the same sort of evolu-
tionary improvements among our friends
in Latin America, with a great deal of
success.
The Convention on Human Rights of
the OAS-we signed it after I became
President. At that time, I think we only
had two signatories. Now we have 13,
enough to put it into effect. The alloca-
tion of budget funds and staff for the
preservation or enhancement of human
rights under the OAS has been tripled
just in the last few months.
There's a strong move toward the
democratization of governments in Latin
America among those that are very stable,
among those, as you know, that are not
quite so stable.
1598
