Oct. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Moreover, they require better targeting
of these resources on low-income and
minority elderly.
The amendments continue the Older
American Community Service Employ-
ment program for low-income older per-
sons. Congress expanded eligibility under
the program to individuals with somewhat
higher incomes than poverty level. But I
hope that the program administrators will
ensure that those in greatest need can
have the first opportunity to participate.
The amendments also extend for 3
years ACTION's three Older American
Volunteer programs: Retired Senior Vol-
unteers, Foster Grandparents, and Senior
Companions. These programs provide
volunteer opportunities for persons age 60
and over to serve meaningfully the infirm,
the mentally retarded, and other individu-
als in their communities.
The amendments will help expand the
ability of the elderly to protect their rights
in two ways: by authorizing a private
right of action for judicial redress of age
discrimination, and by requiring the U.S.
Commission on Civil Rights to study ra-
cial and ethnics discrimination in pro-
grams for the elderly.
Further, the amendments strengthen
the role of the Federal Council on Aging,
which I rely on for advice, and provide
for a White House Conference on Aging
in 1981. This Conference will provide a
national forum to reassess the progress we
have made and to prepare for challenges
that will confront the Nation's elderly
citizens over the next generation or two.
In summary, I particularly want to rec-
ognize the work of Congressman John
Brademas and Senator Thomas Eagleton,
who helped shape these important amend-
ments which represent the continuation
of the Nation's commitment to find effec-
tive ways to assist our older citizens. I am
proud to sign them and reaffirm that
commitment.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12255 is Public Law
95-478, approved October 18.
Codification of the Interstate
Commerce Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 10965
Into Law. October 18, 1978
I have signed into law H.R. 10965, a
bill which revises and codifies the Inter-
state Commerce Act and related laws as
subtitle IV of title 49, United States Code,
"Transportation."
The goal of this bill, to codify the In-
terstate Commerce Act and related stat-
utes, is a laudable one. As its title reveals,
this legislation is intended merely to re-
state existing law, not change it. However,
section 10706 of the bill might be con-
strued to authorize the Interstate Com-
merce Commission to shield from the anti-
trust laws intermodal rate bureaus to
which rail carriers are parties. In fact, the
administration believes the Commission
does not possess such power, and this im-
portant issue is currently in litigation. It
would, therefore, be highly inappropriate
for a codification of existing law to re-
solve this dispute or to influence the pend-
ing litigation.
Further, the division of litigating re-
sponsibility between the Commission and
the Department of Justice is not entirely
free from doubt under present law.
I understand that both the bill and its
legislative history state that the Congress
has no intention of changing existing law
or of resolving issues of ICC authority or
of influencing pending litigation. With
1794
