July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
-include in public speeches, where ap-
propriate, language emphasizing the
importance of the Equal Rights
Amendment and assure that similar
language is included in the speeches
made by officials of their agency or
department;
-review the Federal women's program
in their agency or department to de-
termine how it can be strengthened
and provide suggestions to Ms. Cos-
tanza for my consideration;
designate a policy level representa-
tive from their agency or department
who will serve on the Interdepart-
mental Task Force;
—provide professional and clerical staff
support for the agency or depart-
ment's representative on the Inter-
departmental Task Force.
Ms. Costanza will meet regularly with
department and agency heads, their
staffs, and representatives of women's in-
terests to assure full and immediate imple-
mentation of this directive.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on July 25.
26th Anniversary of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
Statement by the President. July 25, 1978
To the People of Puerto Rico:
Today marks Puerto Rico's 80th year
under the American flag, and the 26th
anniversary of the founding of the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, a form of
government freely and democratically
adopted by the people of Puerto Rico.
Since 1898 and as American citizens since
1917, you have made a rich contribution
to the life of the United States while pre-
serving your own unique culture and
traditions within the broader community.
As you commemorate this anniversary,
I would like to emphasize that the United
States remains fully committed to the
principle of self-determination for the
people of Puerto Rico. President Eisen-
hower made that commitment in 1953,
and this has been the position of all U.S.
administrations since that time. We con-
tinue to regard it as the fundamental
principle in deciding Puerto Rico's future.
My administration will respect the
wishes of the people of Puerto Rico and
your right to self-determination. What-
ever decision the people of Puerto Rico
may wish to take—statehood, independ-
ence, Commonwealth status, or mutually
agreed modifications in that status—it
will be yours, reached in accordance with
your own traditions, democratically and
peacefully.
Governor Romero Barcelo has called for
a referendum after the 1980 elections in
Puerto Rico to decide Puerto Rico's fu-
ture status. Should the government of
Puerto Rico decide to hold a referendum,
I will support, and urge the Congress to
support, whatever decision the people of
Puerto Rico reach.
The people of the United States are
proud of our cultural and political associ-
ations with Puerto Rico over the last 80
years. We know that we can best honor
our friendship, and our own democratic
principles, by respecting your free choice
about your own future.
Indian Education Programs
Statement by the President. July 25, 1978
Under my proposal for a Cabinet de-
partment of education, the Indian educa-
tion programs now located in the Bureau
of Indian Affairs (BIA) would be moved
to the new department. I have recom-
mended this transfer because I believe it
1336
