Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 18
farmers have adequate time to prepare
for next year's planting.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, today NBC and the
Associated Press released the results of
their latest poll, which is on the economy
and inflation. The poll was taken earlier
in the week. Relative to the economy, only
13 percent of those questioned said they
felt the economy would get better in the
next year; 53 percent said they thought
it would get worse. On inflation, 58 per-
cent said that would get worse. What does
this tell you about your effort in the anti-
inflation program and the work that's
ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. It proves how neces-
sary it is. You know, the American peo-
ple are genuinely concerned about the
future of the economy; so am I. And it's
not only a burning political issue—which
is of secondary importance, but an impor-
tant thing—but it also is important for
me, as President, to make sure I have a
prosperous and a strong and secure nation
that I lead.
There is no doubt that the number one
concern of the American people at this
point is inflation. A year and a half ago,
the number one concern of the American
people was unemployment. And the rea-
son that we have shifted that legitimate
concern of the American people is because
we've had remarkable and unanticipated
success in putting people back to work.
We've had a net increase, as you know,
of about 7 million jobs since the Congress
acted early in 1977.
But I share that concern with them.
And many economists have even pre-
dicted that we're going to have a reces-
sion or depression next year. We don't
think we will.
But the best way to prevent a recession
is to make sure that our anti-inflation
program is effective. I'm dedicated to it.
I'll do everything I can, within the legal
constraints placed on me as President, to
succeed in this effort. And I don't think
we'll have a recession. And I am not going
to impose any mandatory wage and price
controls. Between those two parameters,
which are not incompatible, I think we
will be successful enough so that the gen-
uine concerns of the American people are
not realized.
U.S. TRADE BALANCE
Q. Mr. President, one of the factors, of
course, in inflation is our balance of pay-
ments vis-a-vis foreign governments. Re-
cently, Dr. Peter Krogh, who is the dean
of the Foreign Service School at George-
town University, said in a speech that he
was talking to an American businessman
who said that he can't compete with the
Japanese; they've got two governments
working for them-theirs and ours. And
by that he meant that our Government
was not doing enough to help in our ex-
port programs. Do you have anything to
add to that or comment upon that?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think that we
will have a substantial reduction in 1979
in our balance-of-trade deficit; some have
estimated a 30- or 35-percent reduction.
Our adverse trade balance this year is in
the neighborhood of $30 billion. The
prime cause of it is $45 billion worth of
oil imports.
Under Secretary Kreps, the Commerce
Secretary, under my own leadership, we
and my whole administration has tried to
encourage exports of American products.
And they have been increasing.
I just mentioned agricultural exports
as an example, since it has already been
raised. Last year, in 1977, we had a very
low average price for agricultural prod-
ucts. But we still set alltime record in
2065
