Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Maine. I believe that Ed Muskie and
these candidates on my right exemplify
that historical attitude and spirit of the
people of your State.
Bill Hathaway is perhaps not a very
good politician. He doesn't brag on him-
self. He's not a flashy person. He doesn't
dwell on press statements. He doesn't at-
tack a serious problem in a superficial
way. When there's a serious matter that
affects Maine, like the Indian claims
ques-
tion in which I have been deeply involved
since the first week I was in the White
House, I've never observed nor ever ex-
pected Bill Hathaway to demagog that
issue or to try to get a single vote out of
it.
He's worked quietly behind the scenes,
effectively. He has known the attitude
of Maine people. He's known the attitude
of Maine public officials. He's recognized
that there is a sharp difference of opinion,
even between him and some of the other
Democratic candidates. Sometimes I did
not agree with Bill Hathaway's approach
to this question. But he didn't particularly
care, because he was searching for a
permanent solution that would be good
for the people whom he loves. And I
think he deliberately was willing to sacri-
fice perhaps some of his own political
benefit in order to serve you well.
I don't quite know what you call that.
I don't call it being naive, because he
knew what he was doing. I don't think
he was trying to be a martyr, because
obviously he did not want to sacrifice
himself. I call it integrity and courage.
My own opinion, as one who's visited
here, I think, five times, is that that is
what Maine is, what your original pio-
neers were, what you believe in, how you
feel-whether you're a Democrat or Re-
publican, that doesn't matter. There's a
certain staunchness and courage and
quietness about a resident of Maine. At
least that's my opinion as someone from
Georgia observing what you
lieve I'm right.
I be-
His fellow Senators, in 6 short years,
have recognized what Bill Hathaway is.
He serves on the Finance Committee, and
everyone who serves on that committee
or the Budget Committee, like Ed Muskie
or others, know that there is one man who
cannot be swayed by a powerful chair-
man, who cannot be swayed by sometimes
a demagogic majority to violate in writing
the tax laws in this country what's best
for the average working family of our
Nation. And that's Bill Hathaway. He
has never changed. He believes in tax
reform, whether it wins him a vote or not.
And I'll bet you that you will not see a
single powerful, selfish lobby making a
major campaign contribution to Bill
Hathaway. And there's a good reason, be-
cause he's protecting your interests and
not the special interests.
He has a couple of special subcommit-
tees where he devotes the focal point of
his time. One concerns employment, and
the other one concerns small business. It
would not have been possible for us to
bring down the unemployment rate 25
percent in just 21 months, never before
achieved in this country, had it not been
for people like him. And he hasn't been
one who wanted to create an enormous
number of Government jobs, to take your
tax money and pay someone else to work
for the Government.
He believes in the free enterprise sys-
tem of this country in its finest and most
decent and most open and most competi-
tive form, creating jobs that are perma-
nent, because there's nothing more de-
bilitating to a young person or an old
person than to know you've got one life
to live on this Earth and to see your
God-given talents being wasted because
you can't produce something and earn a
living for you or your family. And the
small business people of this country—I
1898
