Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 5
address both the substance of our rebating
laws as well as procedures for enforce-
ment, taking into account the inherently
international character of ocean shipping.
In the interim, I am asking the Federal
Maritime Commission to step up its en-
forcement efforts against illegal rebating
under the authority now provided in the
Shipping Act of 1916. The Administra-
tion is committed to assist the FMC in
these efforts, and I urge the FMC to seek
the assistance of the Department of State
in obtaining any necessary cooperation
from foreign governments.
Although I am withholding my signa-
ture on H.R. 9518 I believe the bill rep-
resents an important signal to foreign
countries that we must work together to
secure a cooperative shipping regime. I
commit my Administration to work with
the next Congress to develop a compre-
hensive maritime policy for the United
States, in which the concerns reflected by
this bill as well as broader policy issues can
be fully addressed.
The White House,
November 4, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of dis-
approval was released on November 5.
"Get Out the Vote" Rally in
Jackson, Mississippi
Remarks by Telephone to Participants in the
Rally. November 5, 1978
Good afternoon. This is Jimmy Car-
ter-at Camp David, as a matter of fact.
I've been out campaigning in the last
number of weeks in 31 different States,
recognizing how important it is to Demo-
cratic candidates to have a large vote.
Since most of the Democratic voters are
working people, quite often we are not
inclined to vote as strongly and as eagerly
as are the Republicans, because the spe-
cial interest groups that really want some-
thing for themselves out of government
are always the ones that are most eager to
go and vote.
You've got a wonderful candidate,
Maurice Dantin, and I really need him
to be in the Senate to represent, first of
all, the United States; secondly, Missis-
sippi; and then third, of course, to help
me on key issues as they come up in the
Senate.
I was in Flint, Michigan, the other
night, and I recall that I won the Michi-
gan primary and got about 50-something
delegates by less than one vote per pre-
cinct. And I went directly from there to
the 10th District of Illinois, where the
incumbent Congressman won by only 201
votes out of about 200,000 votes cast.
We've seen a very close race in Missis-
sippi evolve, and I know that every vote
will count. So, as President, I want to en-
courage all of you to do as southerners
have always done, and that is to show
that you run your own government and
that
your strong expression of opinion and
will on election day is the guide for not
only your future Senator, Maurice Dan-
tin, but also a guide to me as President.
We only have a few hours left, the rest
of the day and all day Monday, and then,
of course, you can work on Tuesday as
well. But there's no reason why everyone
at this rally, 600 or 700 people, can't put
in 15 or 20 hours of solid work between
now and the close of election day Tues-
day for Maurice Dantin and the entire
Democratic ticket there in your State.
It's not enough just to come to a rally
on Sunday afternoon and express your
opinion that Maurice should be the next
1963
