Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
Day." I urge officials of Government at
the national, state, and local levels, and of
voluntary organizations to plan appropri-
ate activities so that the contributions
that our grandparents have made may be
appropriately recognized.
I urge each citizen to pause and to re-
flect on the influence his grandparents
have had in shaping his own destiny, and
on the legacy bestowed upon our contem-
porary society by his grandparents' gen-
eration.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this third day of Au-
gust, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:38 a.m., August 4, 1978]
Federal Civil Service Reform
and Reorganization
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Roundtable Discussion. August 3, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
how delighted I am to have this oppor-
tunity to meet with a group of highly in-
terested citizens of our country, in the
presence of distinguished public servants,
and with a superb panel, whom I just
met a few moments ago, with whom I'll
have a discussion about one of the most
important subjects that faces our Nation
and the Congress this year.
I believe that the taxpayers of the
United States have a right to expect a
good return from their investment in the
United States Government. I spent 2 years
campaigning for the office that I hold,
and one of the most intense desires of the
American people is to have a government,
a bureaucracy, that's effective and effi-
cient, and which serves them well.
The only group I know of who has a
more intense desire to see this than the av-
erage citizen is those who give their lives
in public service as career employees of
the United States Government.
We began 15 months ago to assess how
we could evolve amendments to the civil
service laws, which have now been in ef-
fect for about 92 years, that would incor-
porate necessary improvements, that
would let managers manage, let the su-
perb capability of executive officers be
realized for the benefit of us all; to re-
ward dedication and excellence, and to
single out those who are incompetent or
lazy or not dedicated, and discipline them
or inspire them or fire them.
The essence of what we proposed also
includes the protection of the rights of
those who are part of the civil service
system, and we are also very interested in
seeing the so-called whistleblowers, those
who see defects in our Government, vio-
lations of the law, gross waste, protected
when they point out these deficiencies,
leading to correction of errors in our Gov-
ernment.
I'm deeply concerned about the Viet-
nam veterans and veterans who are per-
manently disabled, and I was concerned
to discover that over 50 percent of all the
veterans hired were either discharged be-
fore the Vietnam war or have been dis-
charged from the service with full retire-
ment benefits. We need to concentrate
the veterans preference on those who have
been discharged recently-and we define
that by the last 15 years-and those who
are permanently disabled.
We don't have an adequate oppor-
tunity to hire minority citizens and wom-
en, and overall, we need fairness, an
incentive for better work, a clear
assignment of responsibility. And in the
process we have proposed embedding in
1361
