Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 14
months; if one's been required every 3
months, to change it to annually. One
result is that the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, OSHA, has now
proposed eliminating more than 1,000
burdensome and unneeded regulations.
The most important contribution, how-
ever, that the Congress can make to
streamline the bureaucracy is to pass my
civil service reform program. We need a
civil service system that rewards the com-
petent and the dedicated employee, that
disciplines those who will not work, and
which lets managers manage the Federal
bureaucracy.
My civil service reforms
will do exactly this, while protecting even
better than now the legitimate rights of
Government workers.
These are the tools that I need to man-
age the bureaucracy and to make Gov-
ernment work. I hope that you will urge
your representatives in Congress to pass
the civil service reform. The Congress
hears from the special interest lobbies.
They need to hear from you.
Another major goal: We must cut the
Federal budget deficit, and that is exactly
what we are doing. In fiscal year 1976,
when I ran for President, the Federal defi-
cit was $66.4 billion. In fiscal year 1978,
the first budget that I prepared, we had
cut it down to $51 billion. Next year,
fiscal year 1979, the Federal deficit will be
down into the forties of billions of dol-
lars. And my goal for the next year, fiscal
year 1980, is to bring the deficit down to
the thirties of billions of dollars. We are
making progress. I need your help. We are
determined to succeed.
We are cutting unnecessary spending.
We are being more careful in the prepa-
ration of the budget. And I will achieve
part of this goal by limiting the pay in-
crease of Federal workers to 52 percent
and by freezing executive salaries at zero
percent increase this coming year. But
they should not be required to have to
sacrifice all alone. Labor and industry
must cooperate in a strong and effective
effort to slow the spiral of inflation. You,
the farmers of our country, must help.
I've asked industry and labor to hold
down wage and price increases below the
average increase of the last 2 years. Con-
gress must help to control inflation with
every vote and with every decision. Un-
necessary spending must be stopped. Pub-
lic works legislation now being considered
would spend hundreds of millions of dol-
lars more than it should on expensive
porkbarrel projects that we do not need
and will give us thousands of extra Fed-
eral bureaucrats.
The fight against inflation becomes
nearly impossible when the pressures of
special economic interest lobbies are suc-
cessful. These lobbies care absolutely noth-
ing about the national interest-as long
as they get theirs. We will never win the
fight against inflation unless we help the
Congress to resist these pressures.
The hospital cost containment bill is a
perfect example. Intense lobbying by the
medical and hospital industry defeated
the hospital cost containment legislation
in the House Commerce Committee, al-
though the vast majority of Americans
and the vast majority of Members of Con-
gress are appalled at the astronomical rise
of hospital costs in recent years, costs
which have been rising and are still rising
at more than twice the national inflation
rate. This bill would save the Federal
Treasury $19 billion over the next 5
years and will save the American people
$56 billion in 5 years. How does that af-
fect you on hospital cost for your family?
That's about $800 for every family in this
country-$800 that your family will have
to spend because the special interests so
far have won the fight.
The United States Senate will soon be
taking up this cost containment legisla-
tion. If Congress really wants to demon-
1423
