Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
International Security Assistance
Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 3075 Into Law.
September 26, 1978
I am pleased to be able to take the ac-
tion authorized by the International Se-
curity Assistance Act to fully terminate
the force and effect of the embargo on
arms transfers to Turkey.
The Nation is well served by the pru-
dent decision of Congress which makes
this action possible. With the removal of
these restrictions, the United States will
be better able to accomplish its goals in
the vital Eastern Mediterranean region:
to improve our bilateral relationships
with Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus; to
strengthen NATO's southern flank; and
to help promote a just and lasting settle-
ment of the Cyprus problem. In this effort
to encourage the restoration of a stable
and peaceful atmosphere in the Eastern
Mediterranean, we will be fully guided
by the principles set forth in the act.
This action will enable us to resume
full military cooperation with Turkey and
begin a new chapter in our relationship
with Turkey. This relationship is im-
portant not only because of our mutual
security concerns but also because of our
shared commitment to democracy.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3075 is Public Law
95-384, approved September 26.
United States-Turkey
Military Cooperation
Memorandum From the President.
September 26, 1978
PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATION NO. 78-18
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination and Certification
Under the International Security Assist-
ance Act of 1978 Regarding Resumption
of Full Military Cooperation With Turkey
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
by Section 13(a) of the International
Security Assistance Act of 1978, I hereby
determine and certify:
(1) that the resumption of full military
cooperation with Turkey is in the national
interest of the United States and in the
interest of the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization; and
(2) that the Government of Turkey is
acting in good faith to achieve a just and
peaceful settlement of the Cyprus prob-
lem, the early peaceable return of refugees
to their homes and properties, and con-
tinued removal of Turkish military troops
from Cyprus in the context of a solution
to the Cyprus problem, and the early
serious resumption of inter-communal
talks aimed at a just, negotiated settle-
ment.
You are requested on my behalf to re-
port this determination and certification
to the Congress.
This determination and certification
shall be published in the FEDERAL
REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4 p.m., October 6, 1978]
National Farm-City Week, 1978
Proclamation 4602. September 27, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The interdependence of farms and
cities is one of the basic strengths of the
Nation.
Farm people and city people have long
been partners in economic and social
1636
