Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 12
THE PRESIDENT. I would hate to admit
how much. [Laughter]
Q. And do you fight?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, no, we don't. We
get along well. Sometimes we have argu-
ments about things that at the time seem
important, but later on, we realize are not
important. But this would involve things
like how late Amy can stay up at night
and whether she can see a PG-rated
movie or not, those kinds of things. But
that's the limit.
Rosalynn is an extremely knowledge-
able and sensitive person, is very strong-
willed. I think she understands the con-
sciousness of the American people and
their attitudes, perhaps better than do I.
She's a full partner with me in every
sense of the word. And with the excep-
tion of top-secret material, where security
restrains me, I share almost everything
with her.
I seek her advice on matters. She is
even involved in foreign affairs, and needs
to be. She accompanies me on my trips.
She's made several overseas trips inde-
pendently of me. And I think that when a
foreign leader has, in effect, underesti-
mated her before she arrived, after they
leave and they see how well she under-
stands our Nation and how close she is to
me, they are very gratified that she has
come. This is particularly applicable in
Latin America. She happens to speak
Spanish.
She's now representing me this morn-
ing in Rome at the funeral of the Pope.
I just attended a mass for the Pope at
St. Matthew's Cathedral, and when I
arrived there, they were very compli-
mentary about the arrival statement that
Rosalynn had made.
So, in all those ways and many others,
she's a full partner with me and is an ex-
tension of myself.
When I can't go to visit a certain
country for the inauguration of a Presi-
dent or for a substantive discussion about
issues with which she is familiar, she goes
and represents me. So, I'd say in many
ways she's a full partner with me.
SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY
Q. If I could ask a political question,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course.
Q. It seems to me, reading the publi-
cations we're representing, well, that
there's a resurgence of interest in the
Kennedy family. Many of us have pub-
lished stories involving members of that
family, to the point where it seems possi-
ble that Senator Kennedy is being
groomed for a challenge to you in 1980.
My question is, are you-
THE PRESIDENT. You mean, by the
news media? [Laughter]
Q. My question is, are you prepared for
a challenge by Senator Kennedy or some
other Democrat in 1980?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I take Ted
Kennedy at his word. He has said he's not
going to run in 1980. He said, if I run, he
will support me, and I have no reason to
doubt him. He's said this many times in
the past. Sometimes his word has been
doubted. He's always done what he said
he would.
I might say that I don't fear any com-
petition that I might get in 1980. And
when I began my plans to run for Presi-
dent fairly early in 1972-April, as a
matter of fact, of '72-I thought that my
two opponents would be Senator Ken-
nedy and Governor George Wallace. And
I was perfectly willing, even eager, to
meet both of them, even when I was an
absolutely unknown candidate with prac-
tically little money and no nationwide or-
ganization.
1413
