Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 6, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the National Association
of Farm Broadcasting. September 29, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. Sorry to interrupt your meeting.
[Laughter]
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I was just looking over yesterday's
Washington Post. And my staff had
counted 13 articles in one newspaper
about fraud or corruption or misspent
public funds. And this is one of the chal-
lenges that we've accepted since I've been
President, is to try to root out this kind
of legitimate concern that American peo-
ple have about government.
We will have legislation very shortly
establishing the firmest possible restraint
on major public officials in the Congress
and my administration concerning ethics.
We're setting up 12 inspectors general,
who will supervise independently the
proper performance within the major
agencies.
We've now embarked, as you know, on
a very difficult task of correcting some of
the deficiencies that have existed for dec-
ades, really, in the General Services Ad-
ministration. I think the civil service re-
form, which is likely to pass very shortly,
will mean that public employees who are
overwhelmingly excellent, honest, dedi-
cated, competent, will be given a chance
to be rewarded for that kind of perform-
ance. And we are encouraging the protec-
tion of the so-called whistleblowers, and
in the process of civil service reform, we
have a special counsel who again is inde-
pendent of me or anyone else who can
investigate allegations of improper per-
formance.
This is an ongoing process. It's not an
abrupt crusade. It's something we've been
doing for a long time. But I hope it'll pay
dividends, because every time we do have
a revelation of a bad performance or im-
proper spending of funds or even just
mismanagement, certainly corruption and
fraud, it creates a very bad core problem
in government that we'd like to root out.
I think I might outline just in a couple
of minutes a few of the things that we are
working on now in the last stages of the
congressional session, and just briefly cover
some foreign affairs, and then let you ask
me questions that are of concern to you.
I think we have now a good chance to
pass the major portion of the natural gas
and other energy policy bills. And we'll
get four bills passed, maybe half of an-
1671
