Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
on Christmas Day. That progress contin-
ued, but at a slower and slower pace
through the early part of the year. And
by early summer, the negotiations had
come to a standstill once again.
It was this stalemate and the prospect
for an even worse future that prompted
me to invite both President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin to join me at Camp
David. They accepted, as you know, in-
stantly, without delay, without precondi-
tions, without consultation even between
them.
It's impossible to overstate the courage
of these two men or the foresight they
have shown. Only through high ideals,
through compromises of words and not
principle, and through a willingness to
look deep into the human heart and to
understand the problems and hopes and
dreams of one another can progress in a
difficult situation like this ever be made.
That's what these men and their wise and
diligent advisers who are here with us to-
night have done during the last 13 days.
When this conference began, I said that
the prospects for success were remote.
Enormous barriers of ancient history and
nationalism and suspicion would have to
be overcome if we were to meet our ob-
jectives. But President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin have overcome these bar-
riers, exceeded our fondest expectations,
and have signed two agreements that hold
out the possibility of resolving issues that
history had taught us could not be re-
solved.
The first of these documents is entitled,
"A Framework for Peace in the Middle
East Agreed at Camp David." It deals
with a comprehensive settlement, compre-
hensive agreement, between Israel and
all her neighbors, as well as the difficult
question of the Palestinian people and the
future of the West Bank and the Gaza
area.
The agreement provides a basis for the
resolution of issues involving the West
Bank and Gaza during the next 5 years.
It outlines a process of change which is in
keeping with Arab hopes, while also care-
fully respecting Israel's vital security.
The Israeli military government over
these areas will be withdrawn and will be
replaced with a self-government of the
Palestinians who live there. And Israel
has committed that this government will
have full autonomy. Prime Minister Begin
said to me several times, not partial
autonomy, but full autonomy.
Israeli forces will be withdrawn and re-
deployed into specified locations to pro-
tect Israel's security. The Palestinians will
further participate in determining their
own future through talks in which their
own elected representatives, the inhabi-
tants of the West Bank and Gaza, will
negotiate with Egypt and Israel and Jor-
dan to determine the final status of the
West Bank and Gaza.
Israel has agreed, has committed them-
selves, that the legitimate rights of the
Palestinian people will be recognized.
night, and during the negotiations con-
After the signing of this framework last
cerning the establishment of the Palestin-
ian self-government, no new Israeli set-
tlements will be established in this area.
The future settlements issue will be de-
cided among the negotiating parties.
The final status of the West Bank and
Gaza will be decided before the end of
the 5-year transitional period during
which the Palestinian Arabs will have
their own government, as part of a nego-
tiation which will produce a peace treaty
between Israel and Jordan specifying
borders, withdrawal, all those very crucial
issues.
These negotiations will be based on all
the provisions and the principles of Secu-
rity Council Resolution 242, with which
you all are so familiar. The agreement on
1535
