Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
produce efficiently and to get the fair and control for the last 40 years. No one be-
stable income that you deserve.
Secretary Bergland and I are working
with congressional leaders, including
those on this stage, to consolidate the sev-
eral farm disaster protection programs
into one effective and efficient program.
you
Just last week, I signed the Agricul-
tural Credit Assistance Act of 1978, the
most substantial reform of our farm credit
program in more than 40 years. You will
see the beneficial effects the next time
need a loan. And the American taxpayer
is protected by eliminating unnecessary
Government interest subsidies. These are
good ideas, and they are already starting
to do the job that they were supposed to
do for you.
I was able to see at first hand how
Congress was capable of putting national
interest above the special interests in
finding solutions to long-neglected agri-
cultural problems. But another long-ne-
glected problem is proving much more
difficult to solve. It's equally important to
you. Inflation is the biggest threat we face,
and we must all work together to control
it.
Inflation robs all Americans of the dol-
lars that you work so hard to earn and to
save. I want to give you some straight
talk—as Harry Truman would have
given about why we have inflation, and
what the American people, my adminis-
tration, and most of all, the U.S. Con-
gress must do to fight it.
As long as most Americans expect in-
flation to continue, it will. That kind of
thinking will never end unless labor, man-
agement, and government join together
to act responsibly and with restraint.
I will continue to make the Federal
Government do its part. For one thing, we
are rooting out waste in Government, and
I pledge that we will continue to do so.
We are getting control over Government
programs that have mushroomed out of
fore has ever really tried to figure out
which one of these programs works and
which one doesn't.
Now every one of my Cabinet members
and agency leaders has begun to use zero-
based budgeting, a system in which no
program is taken for granted, no matter
how long it's been in existence. Each pro-
gram must prove its worth from the
ground up every year. The benefits of this
new system are beginning now to be felt.
I've also ordered them to cut paper-
work and redtape, burdens that weigh on
all Americans. As a result, last year we
cut Government-imposed paperwork by
more than 10 percent. And we're going
to match that figure again this year.
One good example that you and I
know very well, and which I used to
dread seeing come in the mail, is the 22-
page booklet which we've had to complete
every few years for the agricultural cen-
sus. We've now chopped it to 4 pages.
And it will still give the Commerce De-
partment every bit of census data that
they need. I know how confusing that
census questionnaire was. I heard about
one farmer who was asked in one of the
questions how his family was broken down
by sex. He thought quite a while and said,
well, it hadn't happened yet, but he had
an uncle who had a drinking problem.
[Laughter]
One of the most difficult jobs I have is
to cut down paperwork, to cut down on
forms, application blanks, reports that
come in to the Federal Government.
I've now required that regulation
writers go to school, that the regulations
be issued in simple English language, and
that the people who write the regulations
sign them. This is making an impact.
I've also ordered every Cabinet Secre-
tary to discard regulations that are no
longer necessary; and if one's been re-
quired every week, to change it to 3
1422
