Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ate they were, how quiet they were, how
inarticulate they were, that their lives
were meaningful.
And slowly, as people started turning
to Guthrie because of his guitar and be-
cause of his ability to write words that
meant something, he became a natural
leader. And he saw the inequality of op-
portunity in our country for the Native
Americans, for the blacks, for the white
working class, for those who couldn't
speak English well, and began to fight
for them. And he would write a song
that would tell about the anguish of a
downtrodden spirit and sing it on the
radio.
And he became persecuted by many
of the powerful people in our country.
Joe McCarthy tried to still his voice by
calling him a Communist. But eventu-
ally Woody Guthrie's songs started
reaching people's hearts in places of
importance, and he became kind of a
living legend in our time.
And I think it's good for me as Presi-
dent of our country and you as Mem-
bers of Congress, future Members, to
realize that those cries of anguish, al-
though not quite as prevalent, still exist
and that people whom we may not see
from the perspective of the White
House or the House Office Building or
the Senate Office Building still exist.
And we might not even meet many of
them on a campaign trail, but they look
to us together to alleviate their pain
and to let their hopes and dreams be
realized.
It may be that none of us in this room
will ever mean quite as much to Amer-
ica as Woody Guthrie; all he had was
not much of an education and an old,
beat-up guitar, with a heart full of love
for his fellow Americans and also for
our great country. I think it's a good
story for us to remember, whether you
live in the Redwood Forest or the New
York Islands or the Gulfstream Waters.
And all over the country Woody Guth-
rie's songs have meant a lot to just com-
mon, ordinary, good Americans, who are
the strength of our Nation, who are the
future of our Nation, and who have
trusted us enough to give us a high
honor.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Knoxville International Energy
Exposition of 1982
Proclamation 4628. December 6, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In May 1982, a six-month Interna-
tional Energy Exposition will open in
Knoxville, Tennessee, inviting the na-
tions of the world to think anew of man's
relationship with the pervasive force of
energy which fundamentally shapes the
choices people have as to the endurance
and enjoyment of life itself. This exposi-
tion, whose theme is "Energy Turns the
World," will provide a splendid setting
in which to explore new technologies to
conserve energy, to harness the long-last-
ing and most renewable sources, and to
carry on the search for new sources of
energy.
Because of the opportunities which the
Exposition offers for a deeper under-
standing of energy issues and for the stim-
ulation of trade and cultural exchange,
this Administration is moving to extend
the fullest possible recognition to this
event in accordance with Public Law 91-
269. On April 26, 1977, I advised the
Secretaries of State and Commerce that
2170
