Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 19
(b) Require the appropriate officials
of the Executive branch of the Govern-
ment to take the actions prescribed by
Sections 461 (b) (1), 461 (b) (3) (A) and
461 (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 661 (b) (1),
661(b) (3) (A) and 661 (c)).
(c) Require the appropriate officials of
the Executive branch of the Government
to issue such rules, regulations and direc-
tives as are necessary to implement the
regulations of the United States Civil
Service Commission.
1-2. Revocations.
1-201. Executive Order No. 11881 of
October 3, 1975 is revoked.
1-202. All regulations, directives, or
actions taken by the United States Civil
Service Commission pursuant to Execu-
tive Order No. 11881 of October 3, 1975
shall remain in effect until modified, su-
perseded or revoked by the United States
Civil Service Commission pursuant to this
Order.
The White House,
December 19, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:52 a.m., December 20, 1978]
Diplomatic Relations Between
the United States and the
People's Republic of China
Interview With Walter Cronkite of the
Columbia Broadcasting System.
December 19, 1978
TAIWAN
MR. CRONKITE. We have no commit-
ment from Peking that it will not use force
to take Taiwan. Secretary of State Vance
has said only that we have the expectation
that it will not. But if the present Peking
Government or some future Peking Gov-
ernment tried to reunify Taiwan by force,
would we feel free to use force to help
Taiwan resist?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, the
People's Republic of China does not have
the capability of launching a 120-mile
attack across the ocean against Taiwan,
who are heavily fortified and also heavily
armed. And we have made it clear to
the People's Republic that after this year,
when the treaty does expire, this coming
year, that we will sell to Taiwan defensive
weapons.
I think it is accurate to say also, Walter,
that the major interest that the People's
Republic of China has in the Western
Pacific is peace and good relationships
with us. They know our firm expectations,
clearly expressed to them, that the differ-
ences between China and Taiwan will be
settled peacefully. And I think to violate
that understanding with us would be to
wipe out all the benefits to them and to
Asia of peace and their new relationship
with us.
We have, obviously, a desire and a com-
mitment to maintain peace in the Western
Pacific. And as would be the case with an
altercation between any two peoples, we
would certainly be deeply concerned. But
I don't want to speculate on under what
circumstances we might take military
action because I think it's an absolutely
unnecessary speculation, because the peo-
ple of China want peace, they want good
relationships with us, and because Taiwan
is so strong and will stay strong.
MR. CRONKITE. Well, clearly, if the sit-
uation changed drastically in our relations
with any of these two other units, the
Chinese Government and Taiwan, we can
take a new look at the situation, I suppose.
THE PRESIDENT. That's always an op-
tion. And I think, as you know, political
circumstances change around the world
2275
