Sept. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dr. Bingham and Ray Marshall have
tried to bring some order out of that
chaos.
They spent too much time trying to
write specific descriptions of what a safe
chair might be or what a safe ladder
might be or a safe handrail. And if you
took this whole group and spent a week,
you couldn't write all the characteristics
of what is a safe ladder or chair.
Instead, we need to have strict stand-
ards enforced about the kinds of health
threats that are not easily detectable by
an employee or even a trained scientist-
chemicals and other health threats. I
think in the distinction between health on
the one hand and safety on the other,
we've made a great step forward.
There's a much more general accept-
ance now of what OSHA is trying to do.
I don't think that we should ever en-
danger the lives of American workers, but
I believe it is very healthy that Dr. Bing-
ham, Ray Marshall, myself, all of us, as
we impose improved regulations, for in-
stance, in the cotton dust standards, that
we do it in the most efficient way and
the least disruptive way.
are
We have not backed off at all on the
quality of protection of the workers'
health in breathing air with cotton dust
in it. At the same time, we've cut down
tremendously on the potential cost of
these regulations. The workers
pleased, the Department itself is pleased,
and the employers are able, I think, now
to make the corrective action without hav-
ing to close down plants that may have
been closed if the burden on them finan-
cially was just more than they could bear.
So, to summarize, we need not ever to
reduce the high standards that are being
set for air pollution, water pollution,
safety and health of workers. At the same
time, we need to have a cost-effective pro-
gram and one where the regulations are
practical and make common sense. This
is better for the workers; it's better for
the employers; it's better for our overall
economy. I think it arouses support from
the American public.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, I'm Don Stillman
from the United Auto Workers magazine,
Solidarity. We've seen the hospital/doc-
tor/insurance company lobby
lobby fight
vigorously against your cost containment
proposals in the health care area. We are
very much in favor of a national health
insurance proposal, as you are. Yet, while
we're in favor of phasing, we have ques-
tions about whether or not it's a practical
matter to break national health insurance
proposals into a number of components,
one not going into effect or not going to
the Congress unless the health care indus-
try has an inflation rate that's limited in
some manner.
Why do you think that breaking up of
national health into a number of com-
ponents would have success in the
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've had some
success already in imposing, through the
Congress, improved legislation on our Na-
tion. At the same time, I've learned about
the high fragmentation of legislative re-
sponsibility within the House and Senate
and the difficulty of getting comprehen-
sive bills passed.
We would never have gotten the energy
bill passed through Congress had not the
Speaker of the House set up an ad hoc
committee that brought together all the
various committees that were responsible
for energy. A typical example is the one
you mentioned that creates a problem.
Hospital cost containment is a relatively
simple concept, certainly much simpler
than energy, welfare reform, tax reform,
or national health insurance in its totality.
But even that legislation-which I
don't think was adequately supported, by
1492
