Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ployment rate has dropped 12 million,
and we're going to keep on until every
person in this country who wants a job
can find a job. That's our great task, a
very important one.
In Lynn, your employment has gone up
twice as fast even as the national average
that I've just described to you.
We've lowered taxes. Last year we low-
ered your income taxes $8 billion, this
year almost $20 billion more. We've added
good services for you, the highest in-
crease in allocation of money for educa-
tion in the history of our Nation. We've
also had good programs, as you know, for
highways. We've strengthened our coun-
try's defense. We're improving the alloca-
tion of funds to areas like your own, where
the need is greatest. We're rebuilding our
cities. We formed a good partnership be-
tween local, State, and Federal officials.
At the same time, we've seen a need to
make our Government more efficient,
more effective.
One of the big problems that we had
was with our civil service. It was formed
95 years ago. It had never been changed
nor improved. Quite often we would have
two Federal workers sitting side by side.
One would be competent, dedicated,
hard-working. The one sitting next to him
or her would be incompetent or lazy. With
the new civil service reform, we're going
to recognize the hard, dedicated worker,
and the ones who haven't been working
well are going to be reinspired, trans-
ferred, or fired. And we're going to let
managers manage, and in the future you
can depend on your Government being
more effective and more efficient.
I think all of you remember just 2 or 3
years ago there was a great dissatisfaction,
even distrust of our Federal Government
by the people of this country. After the
war in Vietnam, after the Watergate scan-
dals, after the embarrassments of the CIA,
there was a great feeling that public offi-
cials could not be trusted. I advocated
that we require a change in accountability
of public officials to you, the people of this
country.
Under the great leadership of Tip
O'Neill, the Congress passed and I signed
just this week a new ethics bill. It requires
the President, the Vice President, the
members of the Cabinet, all top employees
in the executive branch of Government,
every Member of Congress, all Federal
judges, to reveal their net worth, to let
you the people know how much income
they have and where that income comes
from. So, from now on, there will be much
less temptation to violate the laws or to
do something embarrassing or unethical,
and that's a great step forward, thanks to
your Speaker and my Speaker, Tip
O'Neill.
In addition to better services and lower
taxes, I was very concerned in 1976 about
the high Federal Government deficit.
When I ran for President, the Federal
deficit was over $66 billion. I've not been
in office yet 2 years, but the Congress and
I together have already reduced the deficit
by $25 billion. I'm now preparing the
1980 fiscal year budget. I'm going to cut
the Federal deficit to less than half what
it was when I was elected.
And with the help of the Members of
Congress, we've dedicated ourselves, with
a strong economy, to having a balanced
budget for the Federal Government of the
United States in the future.
The biggest problem that I have and
that you have still on our shoulders is to
control inflation. It robs those who are
least able to afford it. The other night I
spoke to the Nation on television to out-
line what I would do as President, what
business leaders and employers would do
to hold down prices below 6 percent in-
crease per year.
I asked the working people of this coun-
try that if we are able to control govern-
1894
