Dec. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Assembly, because I knew that the coun-
try which I loved would be vilified and
castigated by scores of nations in the de-
veloping world. But the peoples of many
of those nations now look to America with
fresh eyes and new friendship, because we
are struggling with them for justice and
economic development, for democracy,
and for peace.
In our own hemisphere, we have ini-
tiated a new era of mutual respect and
cooperation with our neighbors. And I
am proud that the United States Senate
had the courage and vision to demon-
strate to the world the greatness and the
strength of our Nation by ratifying the
Panama Canal treaties.
And I'm also proud that while I have
been President, no American has fought
or died in combat anywhere on Earth. My
deepest prayer is to be able to say when I
leave this office, "My country lived in
peace."
With its great strength, America is a
continuing and it is a persistent force for
peace in Cyprus, in Nicaragua, in Nami-
bia, in Rhodesia, and elsewhere. We've
seen the President of Egypt and the Prime
Minister of Israel, two long-term enemies,
stand in the White House and before the
Congress and clasp hands in a genuine
gesture of
peace.
No single individual in our lifetime
gave more of her life and her energies and
her devotion to the cause of peace than
did Golda Meir. The world has lost one
of its great, good hearts.
The road to permanent peace in the
Middle East, God knows, is difficult and
frustrating, with many deadlocks and de-
lays. But after 4 wars, and 3,000 years of
hatred, I am confident that our prayers
will be answered and Golda Meir's dream
will come true, and we will see a treaty
of just and durable peace between the
nations of Israel and Egypt signed, and
signed very soon.
We want peace. And we are reducing
our sales of conventional arms and trying
to convince other nations to join with us
in this commitment. America does not
enjoy and does not want the title "Arms
Merchant of the World." I would rather
the peoples of other nations see the letters
"U.S.A." printed on a bag of American
wheat than I would on the butt of a rifle.
As President, I know that many depend
upon the strength of America for their
peace and for their freedom. I am com-
mitted to a strong defense. My first career
was military, in the submarine force. My
greatest responsibility as President is to
maintain the security of our Nation. I
will continue to keep that commitment.
NATO and our other alliances are being
strengthened. Under this administration,
America's defense forces will remain so
strong and well prepared that no nation
will ever be tempted to test them and de-
stroy the peace we love.
But we know that even strong defenses
cannot give us true security as long as the
awesome power of the atom remains a
weapon of war. At the end of World War
II, the United States was the only nation
that possessed an atomic weapon. Today
at least five nations share this sobering re-
sponsibility. We dare not permit the abil-
ity to produce nuclear explosives to be-
come available to dozens of nations, large
and small, led either by responsible lead-
ers or perhaps by madmen.
We acted in the Congress last year to
halt the spread of weapons-grade ura-
nium and plutonium. Fifty nations led by
us are now working together on this pro-
gram and on this problem. We must and
we will continue to prevent the prolifer-
ation of nuclear weapons throughout the
world.
2194
