Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
with you and letting you be an integral
part of the decisionmaking process.
I'm not here trying to make mistakes.
I'm here to avoid making mistakes and
to make sure that when I do make a deci-
sion, that it is sound and best for our
country. And having your counsel and
your advice and your participation in
making these kinds of decisions is an inte-
gral part of my own life as President.
I might say one other thing: I look on
you as full partners with me. Almost all of
you share a common background with me,
having started life in a different world,
sometimes with very severe restraints on
the quality of our own outlook, with lim-
ited spheres of influence. And everyone
in this room has now become an acknowl-
edged leader because of ambition, because
of good fortune, because of the trust
placed in us by our friends, neighbors who
have shared a common purpose. I enjoy
that same relationship as well.
So, we are partners. We have temporary
and transient concerns. We are fighting
hard to control inflation. It'll be my top
domestic priority for this year. It's a prob-
lem that we have suffered for the last 10
years. And it's time for us to do something
about it. Budget constraints will be severe.
The deficit is going to be cut. And I need
your help in this respect as well.
So, in everything that I do, I won't have
any hesitancy to call on you to help me
achieve the goals that we established for
our Nation. And I hope you feel the same
ease in asking me to help you when you
have a goal to achieve for people whom
you serve as well.
We've got a great, strong country. When
we do have temporary unemployment,
temporary inflationary pressures, tempor-
ary budget constraints, we should remem-
ber that our Nation is still the strongest
on Earth. It's the strongest economically.
We have the best political system, the
finest free enterprise system on Earth.
We're the strongest militarily, and we're
going to stay that way.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:15 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Congressional Visit to the People's
Republic of China
Announcement of the Visit by a Bipartisan
Congressional Delegation. December 1, 1978
The Chinese People's Institute of For-
eign Affairs of the People's Republic of
China has invited a bipartisan congres-
sional delegation to visit China during
December.
The delegation will depart December
1 and return December 18. The group
will be led by Senator Harrison A. Wil-
liams, Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, who
will be accompanied by his wife.
Other members of the group include
Senators Henry Bellmon (R-Okla.),
Howard Cannon (D-Nev.), Dale Bump-
ers (D-Ark.), and Donald Riegle, Jr.,
(D-Mich.), who will be accompanied by
their wives.
The Senators will be accompanied by
Robert N. Thomson, Special Assistant
for Congressional Liaison; Walter Ram-
say, Senator Williams' legislative assist-
ant; and Dr. Jerome Korcak, Robert
Perito, and Fran Hess, Department of
State.
Since the first congressional delegation
went to the People's Republic of China in
1972, more than 100 Members of Con-
gress have visited China.
The exchange relationship fulfills that
part of the Shanghai Communique in
which both sides pledged to foster
2110
