Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
Our Hispanic community is an integral
element in the domestic life of our own
nation, as well as in our continuing inter-
national effort to build understanding,
mutual respect, and common purpose
with all Hispanic nations.
In recognition of our Hispanic heri-
tage, the Congress, by joint resolution ap-
proved September 17, 1968 (36 U.S.C.
169f), has requested the President to issue
annually a proclamation designating the
week including September 15 and 16 as
National Hispanic Heritage Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
tion in the world—an increasingly active
and visible leadership.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:53 a.m., August 17, 1978]
Proclamation 4586. August 17, 1978
President of the United States of America, Columbus Day, 1978
do hereby proclaim the week beginning
September 10, 1978, as National Hispanic
Heritage Week. I call upon all Ameri-
cans to take this occasion to reflect on
the influence of Hispanic culture in our
land, and to consider how each of us
can be more responsive to the concerns
of Hispanics.
As we observe National Hispanic Her-
itage Week with appropriate ceremonies
and activities, I call upon all Federal,
State and community agencies, all busi-
ness and professional leaders, educators,
the clergy, and the communications media
to join with me in launching new His-
panic initiatives that will assure the full
participation of Hispanic Americans in
every sector of American life, at every
level of leadership, and guarantee that the
human and civil rights of Hispanics, other
minorities and, indeed, all citizens of our
country are fully protected under the law.
As part of this week's activities I have
asked many of my Hispanic appointees to
hold town meetings in areas of concen-
trated Hispanic population. These meet-
ings will help define the problems and
concerns shared by Hispanics across our
nation.
The role of Hispanics is ever increas-
ing and offers our Hispanic citizens—the
fourth largest Spanish-speaking popula-
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Nearly five centuries ago an Italian
navigator in the service of Spain gazed
beyond the wisdom of his time and sailed
west to rap at the portals of the New
World. Yearly, in gratitude, we celebrate
this incomparable achievement of Chris-
topher Columbus. We honor too the
courage, self-sacrifice, and perseverance
that propelled him on that voyage.
These qualities can fairly be held as a
standard for the people of the United
States of America. When they have been
foremost in our spirit, they have produced
the finest moments in the history of our
Republic. Let us continue to hold them
fast so that we may always be open to
new wisdom, but courageous and perse-
vering in defense of the ideas we hold
dear.
On October 9 we again honor the
memory of Christopher Columbus and
the ever-young promise of the New
World.
In tribute to his achievement, the Con-
gress of the United States, by joint resolu-
1437
