Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Egypt. And I hope before this year is over,
I can go over and sign a peace treaty with
those two, bring peace to that troubled
region.
I'd like to emphasize that the Presi-
dency is sometimes a lonely job. And it's
only with a team effort that I can be suc-
cessful, that the Congress can be success-
ful, that gubernatorial and local officials
can be successful in meeting your needs in
an effective way.
We have been making progress in lower
taxes, better services, a more open gov-
ernment, more effective delivery of the
things that you need in your own lives.
We've built up our Nation's defense.
We've increased the influence and the es-
teem of our own Nation around the world.
We've protected human rights, and we're
working hard toward peace. We've put
our people back to work, and we are try-
ing to control inflation.
Every one of these issues, many others
like them, are very difficult. It requires the
around
support of you and people like you
the country. I can be much more effective
in domestic and foreign issues if when I
speak, foreign leaders and others know
that I don't speak with a hollow voice,
that the Congress gives me its backing
and that you support me in my efforts to
lead this Nation. I hope you'll support the
entire Democratic ticket in Massachusetts.
The next 9 or 10 days will be very im-
portant to you. I hope that you'll make a
small investment of time, money, and
your influence to shape the kind of gov-
ernment you will have in the future and
elect these fine candidates who have al-
ready been chosen in an open, free,
democratic primary.
Please do this, because I want to see the
Democratic team stay together which has
served you so well in Massachusetts.
We've got the greatest nation on Earth.
If you'll help me and the others on the
stage with me in the future, we'll have an
even greater nation, the United States of
America.
Thank you very much, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:37 p.m. at the
Lynn City Hall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Thomas W. McGee, speaker of the
house of the Massachusetts General Court.
Lynn, Massachusetts
Remarks at a Reception for Paul Tsongas
and Edward King. October 28, 1978
Well, it's a great pleasure for me to
come back to Massachusetts. I would like
to say just a few words. I don't have much
time to spend with you, and I particularly
would like to meet every one of you in-
dividually, if you have no objection.
I just had a tremendous welcome and
an unbelievable crowd in Lynn to meet
me and Paul Tsongas and Ed King. And
this is a ticket in Massachusetts that will
do an outstanding job for you. I talked to
them about better services to the Amer-
ican people, higher standards of ethics
and morality, decency, honesty, openness,
reduced taxes, better management of gov-
cutting the
ernment, more efficiency,
budget deficit, stronger defense, and a
search for peace in the Mideast and
around the world.
This is a very important agenda, very
difficult to achieve. And it takes a strong
team to do it. Part of that team, of course,
is comprised of elected officials. But the
most important part of it are Americans
like you who have been blessed by God
with great material wealth, influence, so-
cial status, and ability to influence others
as well.
We've only got 9 or 10 days left in this
election. It's going to be close. It would be
a serious mistake for us to take anything
for granted. You've helped by making a
substantial financial contribution, which
1896
