Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Begin welcomed him there and exchanged and Tuesday, that each one of you will
visits.
But as you know, the peace talks broke
down, and I invited both men to come to
Camp David. They came, not because of
me, not because of my influence with
them, not because of my personal charac-
teristics, not even because I was President
of the United States, but they came be-
cause they realized that when I spoke to
them either publicly or in private, that I
did not speak with a hollow voice, that the
Mideast issues for the first time had been
openly debated. The American people
had been involved in the debate. The
Congress was part of a democratic team
committed to peace in the Middle East.
And they came trusting our Nation. We
had good luck at Camp David as a first
major step.
This morning I met with Prime Min-
ister Begin. Cy Vance, Secretary of State,
spent all day with him. Yesterday he was
with the Egyptians and the Israelis. And I
believe that our Nation's influence now,
our integrity, and our influence is strong
and sound and dependable enough so that
working with them-courageous lead-
ers-with your backing and involvement,
we can finally bring peace to the Mideast.
It's what I want.
And I want to ask you this question in
closing: Do you care enough about world
peace to invest part of your life—at least
4 days of your life-in electing candidates
that you know will help and strengthen
me as I try to represent you well in inter-
national affairs, to keep our Nation
to keep our Nation
strong, firm, dynamic, trusted, and a ma-
jor element for peace? Will you do that
for me? [Applause] Very good.
It's good of you to come. It's good of
you to applaud.
I would like to ask you to do some-
thing specific that's very easy. I would like
for you to promise me that between now
contact at least 50 other people and get a
promise from them that they will go to
the polls Tuesday and vote-preferably
for the Democratic ticket, but at least
vote. Every one that will-think about
it awhile; don't lie to your own President.
[Laughter] But if you will promise to get
50 people to vote between now and Tues-
day, would you please stand? [Applause]
Thank you very much. You have made
my trip worthwhile.
Good luck. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:43 p.m. in the
Niles East High School gymnasium.
Earlier in the evening, the President at-
tended a fundraising reception for Represent-
ative Mikva at the Newton Minow residence.
Following his remarks at the rally, the Pres-
ident proceeded to the home of Mayor Michael
A. Bilandic of Chicago, where he spent the
night.
Domestic High Carbon
Ferrochromium Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a Report.
November 2, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
In accordance with Section 203 (b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
determination to provide import relief for
the U.S. High Carbon Ferrochromium
Industry and explaining the reasons for
my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF HIGH-CARBON
FERROCHROME
As required under Section 203(b)(1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
1940
