Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
I have heard President (Prime Minis-
ter) ยน Begin say in my presence that he did
not desire a separate peace treaty with
Egypt. And, of course, this is also the
opinion and strongly felt view of Presi-
dent Sadat.
We've been negotiating on the Mideast
peace agreement for months. I have per-
sonally put hundreds of hours into it. We
have reached, on more than one occasion
so far, agreement on the text between the
negotiators themselves. When they refer
the text back to the leaders at home in
Egypt and Israel, sometimes the work that
has been done is partially undone. But I
think that the present language as ap-
proved by the negotiators is adequate, and
our presumption is to adhere to that
language as our preference. But I would
like to point out that we are not trying
to impose our will on the leaders them-
selves or on those nations, and we hope
that they will rapidly reach a conclusion.
There's no doubt in my mind that this
kind of difference in language and how
a linkage is actually expressed is a matter
for negotiation. It does not violate the
commitments made at Camp David, no
matter what the decision might be as
reached jointly by Egypt and Israel.
FARM SET-ASIDE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, may I retrack to the
'79-Sam Nelson, Commodity News
Service may I retrack to the '79 feed
grain set-aside program?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. You said you plan on a moderate
program. Is a 20-percent acreage set-
aside considered by you moderate, and do
you plan to wait until the November 15
deadline to make your announcement?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not plan to wait
until the November 15 deadline. I intend
to move on it as quickly as I can. We did
ยน Printed in the transcript.
want to wait until after today, because as
you know, this is the date on which we get
November crop estimates. And we wanted
to have that information available before
we put the final touches on the decision.
I would not want to give you any figure
yet, because I haven't decided. But I will
try to decide that either this week or very
early next week. I don't intend to wait
until the 15th.
RESULTS OF THE ELECTION
Q. Mr. President, looking at the won-
and-lost column of the Democratic can-
didates for whom you campaigned in this
election, how would you assess your im-
pact in these races?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say when
they lost, I had a substantial impact.
When they won, they did it on their own
merit. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, may I follow up? Se-
riously, do you believe that in modern
times that a President coming into a city
to campaign for a candidate really does
sway the voter one way or the other?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to say. My
time to campaign around the country is
very limited. There are hundreds and
hundreds of candidates, as you know. I
think I tried to help roughly 50 candi-
dates for the Congress, in the Senate and
House, including Governors, I believe.
And a few more than half those won. But
I couldn't say that my presence either
caused a victory or a defeat.
We did choose for my own presence
those elections in almost every instance
where there were marginal prospects for
victory. When you go into a State, for in-
stance, like California, it's obvious that
Governor Brown was a heavy favorite.
There were other Democrats running for
the Congress, for instance, in the Sacra-
mento area, whose elections were quite
doubtful, and the same thing applied all
over the country.
1991
