Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
THE PRESIDENT. The normalization of
relations with the People's Republic of
China has always been a goal of my ad-
ministration. It was a goal of my prede-
cessors under the general provisions of the
Shanghai Communique, that was signed
by President Nixon on his historic visit to
China.
The pace of negotiations must be one
that's mutually set. We have a very good
representative in China, Leonard Wood-
cock. They have a very fine representa-
tive here, a new representative not known
as an ambassador, in Washington whom
I've not yet met.
But we are constantly exploring ways
to have better relationships with China.
First of all, no matter what our relation-
ship is with them on a bilateral basis, we
want China to be a peaceful nation, to
be secure, and to have their beneficial
effects felt around the world. Secondly,
we want our bilateral relationships with
them to be better, to enhance trade, com-
munications, student exchange, and so
forth, whether or not we have diplomatic
relations as such. And then, of course,
the final thing is to hope for diplomatic
relations when we're both willing to pro-
ceed expeditiously and when we're both
willing to accommodate one another's
wishes.
I can't tell you what the pace of that
might be. It's not something that I could
unilaterally impose upon them, and I
have to judge by what their response
might be.
I think there's a new impression-cer-
tainly that I have of the leadership in
China-that they are more outreaching
now, they're more outgoing.
The present visit of Chairman Hua,
for instance, to Romania, is a good indi-
cation and an almost unprecedented
thing for them to go out into the Eastern
European world, and perhaps even other
countries as well later on, to make visits.
So, I think that they are reaching out in
a spirit of friendship. If they do, I will
respond in good faith. I just cannot give
you a time schedule.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, aside from the merits
of the defense bill, which you've covered,
some of your advisers are saying that part
of your reason for vetoing it is a desire to
undo the impression that you're a push-
over, so to speak, when it comes to dealing
with Congress. Do you think that you
have been too willing in the past to go
along with what the Members of Congress
wanted, and how much does this veto
have to do with an effort to make you ap-
pear tougher?
THE PRESIDENT. That really is not a
factor involved in it. There have been
times in the past when I've had a major
difference with Congress—at least with a
number of Congress Members-and have
ultimately prevailed. Some of the foreign
affairs debates which I just described a
few minutes ago are examples of this.
Early in the session last year, there was a
great opposition in Congress, particularly
the Democratic leadership, against rees-
tablishing a reorganization authority for
me. And they did it reluctantly, but now
it's assumed to be a routine thing.
There have been cases when I have
erred on the side of not vetoing a bill. I
think that last year I should have vetoed
the appropriation bill that authorized un-
necessary water projects. If I had it to do
over again, I would have vetoed it. But
that's one of the rare occasions when I
think I have been too lenient in accom-
modating the desires of Congress. But the
Congress is now trying to reimpose those
water projects on me as President and
even additional ones that are worse.
So, I think that I've had a fairly well-
balanced approach to Congress. We have
close consultations with Congress on a
1445
