Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 8
Golda Meir
Statement on the Death of the Former Israeli
Prime Minister. December 8, 1978
The American people and I join the
people of Israel in mourning the loss of
former Prime Minister Golda Meir.
Throughout one of the most remarkable
careers of public leadership in this cen-
tury, Golda Meir embodied the best in
the Israeli spirit-courage and idealism;
honest outspokenness and buoyant good
humor; strength and compassion and a
deep love of her land; proud determina-
tion and boundless energy and hard work;
and a deep, abiding commitment to
peace.
As a young woman, she lived in the city
of Milwaukee, and the American people
have always felt a special love and affec-
tion for Golda Meir. I will always re-
member her warmth and graciousness
when we met in Israel when she was
Prime Minister in 1973.
Though she counted Presidents and
world leaders among her friends, Golda
Meir always understood that great global
issues involve the hopes and fears of ordi-
nary men and women, and people all over
the world responded to her humanity.
Golda Meir is among that heroic group
of men and women, Israel's pioneers, who
dreamed of establishing a free and inde-
pendent Jewish state-and who made
that dream come true for millions of
people in one of the great stories of human
struggle and fulfillment of all time.
On the occasion of her death, it is fit-
ting to note that the nation of Israel, to
which she dedicated her life, is strong and
free today. We pray that the second great
dream of Golda Meir's life, for which she
worked and hoped and prayed all her life,
will soon be realized: a just and lasting
peace in the Middle East.
NOTE: The White House announcement of the
members of the U.S. delegation to the funeral
of Mrs. Meir is printed on page 2268 of this
volume.
Imports of Petroleum and
Petroleum Products
Proclamation 4629. December 8, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Secretary of Energy has advised
me that recent legislation has mandated
a change in the treatment accorded resid-
ual fuel oil imports under the Emer-
gency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973
(Section 307 of Public Law 95-465). The
congressional intent clearly contemplated
simultaneous Presidential action to reduce
import fees on residual fuel oil. Therefore,
the Secretary recommended that I grant
additional fee exempt licenses under
Proclamation No. 3279, as amended.
The Secretary also recommended
changes in the distribution system for the
allocation of fee-exempt licenses for im-
ports of residual fuel oil, and changes in
the extent to which refunds of license fees
may be made for the payment of duties on
petroleum and petroleum products.
These changes are consistent with the
purposes of Proclamation No. 3279, as
amended.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by the Con-
stitution and the laws of the United
States, including Section 232 of the Trade
2185
