Sept. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration
Nomination of the Administrator and Two
Deputy Administrators. September 19, 1978
The President today announced three
persons whom he will nominate for posi-
tions at the Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration (LEAA). They are:
Norval Morris, of Chicago, to be Ad-
ministrator of LEAA. Morris, 54, is dean
of the University of Chicago Law School.
He was director of the Center for Studies
in Criminal Justice at the University of
Chicago for 10 years. He has also served
as director of the United Nations Insti-
tute for the Prevention of Crime and
Treatment of Offenders. He has been a
visiting professor or has served on the fac-
ulty of several universities in this country,
England, and Australia.
Homer F. Broome, Jr., of Los Angeles,
to be Deputy Administrator of LEAA for
Administration. Broome, 47, is command-
ing officer of the commission service group
for the Los Angeles Board of Police Com-
missioners. Broome has been with the
Los Angeles Police Department since
1961, beginning as officer in charge of spe-
cial operations for the community prob-
lems unit, juvenile division. He has held
positions at the commander-of-police level
since 1975.
Henry S. Dogin, of Armonk, N.Y., to be
Deputy Administrator for Policy Devel-
opment. Dogin, 43, is first deputy com-
missioner of the New York State Division
of Criminal Justice Services. Dogin was
Deputy Regional Administrator of the
New York Regional Office of LEAA from
1971 to 1973, and Deputy Assistant U.S.
Attorney General for the Criminal Divi-
sion from 1973 to 1975. In 1975 and 1976,
he was Acting Administrator of the Drug
Enforcement Administration.
Meeting With the Chief of the
Liaison Office of the
People's Republic of China
White House Statement. September 19, 1978
The President received the new Chief
of the Liaison Office of the People's Re-
public of China to Washington, Ambassa-
dor Ch'ai Tse-min, for a courtesy call this
morning at 11:30. Ambassador Ch'ai ar-
rived in Washington on August 8.
The President welcomed Ambassador
Ch'ai, and they had a friendly conversa-
tion. The Ambassador conveyed regards
from Chinese Premier Hua Kuo-feng, the
Chairman of the Standing Committee of
the National People's Congress, Yeh
Chien-ying, and Vice Premier Teng
Hsiao-p'ing.
The President welcomed the recent ex-
pansion in our commercial, cultural, and
scientific exchanges. He asked Secretary
Vance and Dr. Brzezinski to maintain
close contact with Ambassador Ch'ai on
international issues of mutual interest.
President Carter asked Ambassador Ch'ai
to convey his best wishes to Premier Hua
Kuo-feng, the Chairman of the Standing
Committee of the National People's Con-
gress Yeh Chien-ying, and Vice Premier
Teng Hsiao-p'ing.
Present at the meeting were Ambassa-
dor Han Hsu, Deputy Chief of the Liai-
son Office; Third Secretary Hsu Shang-
wei; Secretary of State Cyrus Vance; Dr.
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs;
Richard Holbrooke, Assistant Secretary of
1538
