Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
doing here. That goes for all of you-
Germans as well as Americans-and cer-
tainly for your families also.
I'm glad to have this chance to visit
with you, to see the wonderful demon-
stration of what you are doing, and I am
deeply proud of your patriotism and your
courage.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
CHANCELLOR SCHMIDT. President Car-
ter, soldiers, distinguished and dear
American and German citizens:
I am glad to be with you today, to-
gether with President Carter. This occa-
sion of the being together of two heads
of government with U.S. and German
forces is not merely a matter of protocol.
It is intended to underline the fact that
the North Atlantic Alliance on either side
of the Atlantic constitutes the foundation
of freedom and security.
Our friend, the President of the United
States, has made it clear in his remarks
with great emphasis that NATO is a core
of American foreign policy. This is also
true to the same extent of us Germans.
Our common security is based on a
threefold foundation. First, it rests on the
military defense capability of NATO,
that is, on our common capability of de-
terring a potential aggressor.
How good our common defensive ca-
pability is, the soldiers on this place gath-
ered here know perhaps even better than
we, the politicians. But let me say here
that President Carter, as a former naval
officer who has seen active duty, and I, as
a former Minister of Defense, are not
completely without some expert knowl-
edge in this field. So, in other words, the
two of us were not wholly uncritical of
service when we watched your demon-
strations. And I would like to say on my
own judgment that I share in the pride
which President Carter has expressed to
you in his remarks.
Our common security, secondly, is
based on the close political cooperation
within our Alliance. After the NATO
summit meeting which took place last
May in Washington, and after my talks
with President Carter yesterday and to-
day, I may say that this field of close po-
litical cooperation is also all right, and we
can also be proud of it. We take the same
view of international problems and the
same approach, and we are cooperating
in seeking solutions to these problems.
And thirdly, our security rests on stable
economic conditions, because prosperous
economies and an equitable world eco-
nomic order are essential elements of
security.
You know, and the President has just
repeated it in his remarks, that the devel-
opment of the international economy
causes us some concern. But I am confi-
dent that the meeting for which the
heads of governments, heads of state and
heads of governments, of the major West-
ern industrialized countries will meet to-
morrow in Bonn will enable us to make
progress also towards ensuring higher em-
ployment figures.
I should now like to address a few re-
marks in particular to the soldiers of the
two nations.
As members of the American and Ger-
man units assigned to NATO, and on
the basis and through your cooperation
in your everyday life, you ensure that the
Alliance lives up to its defense mission.
And for this I should like, speaking on
behalf of the German people, to express
to you my appreciation and my thanks.
And I address these remarks in par-
ticular to the American soldiers who
serve on German soil. We are aware that
the presence of American soldiers in
Europe will also in the future be indispen-
sable for our security. But we are also
aware that your service here, thousands
of miles away from your home country, is
not always easy for you. For many or even
1291
