Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
position. Any mutual agreement between
the two nations that leads to peace
and
peace treaty would be satisfactory to us.
Q. May I just follow that up, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Would you consider the establish-
ment of four new settlements on the West
Bank to be a violation of the Camp David
agreements?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would.
My interpretation of the Camp David
agreements and, as you know, Prime
Minister Begin disagrees with this inter-
pretation—is that there was a moratorium
on the establishment of new settlements
until the agreements had been reached on
how to establish the autonomous govern-
ment in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. I
had never connected in my own mind or
in my conversations with either leader the
cessation of settlement construction as it
related to an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty
concerning the Sinai. It was always con-
nected in my mind and in the original
versions and text of the proposals to be
connected with the conclusion of discus-
sions on how to establish the modalities
and procedures of establishing the elec-
tions, self-government in West Bank,
Gaza.
I might say I don't want that to be an
obstacle to the Egyptian and Israeli prog-
ress. But that's my own personal opinion,
and that's my recollection of what
occurred at Camp David. It's the only
extant difference, and it's already been ex-
plored in the press.
APPOINTMENTS OF FEDERAL JUDGES
Q. Senator Harry Byrd of Virginia sent
you the names of white males for the
judgeships there, and when he set up his
commissions, he had several white males,
one white female, and one black. The
blacks did present some names, but the
commissions rejected them.
Since that time, the civil rights orga-
nizations of Virginia have considered some
black names to fill the judgeships. Are you
going to consider those black names, or
are you going to acquiesce to Virginia's
alltime historical policy of never even
considering a black for Federal judgeship?
THE PRESIDENT. I have, practically
speaking, a great deal of influence on the
selection of circuit judges, those above the
district judges. And I've established Merit
Selection Commissions to recommend to
me a balanced list of well-qualified people
when every vacancy occurs, and those are,
in effect, under my control.
Because of the ability of any Senator to
prevent the appointment of a district
judge in his or, now, her State, the district
judgeships have to be a partnership agree-
ment between the Senators and the Presi-
dent. Either the Senator or I can, in effect,
veto the appointment of a judge.
As we have received lists of judges,
judge nominees, from the Senators-and
they don't come to me, they come to the
Attorney General-if they don't encom-
pass women and minority groups, the At-
torney General is asking the Senators to
reasses their procedures and to broaden
the list to encompass women and minority
nominees, so that I can have that oppor-
tunity for my own selection.
We are proceeding with that aggres-
sively. In some instances, there have been,
since this legislation has been pending for
so long, there have already been
some commitments made by the Senators
themselves. I think there have been 18 or
20-I've forgotten; I don't keep up with
the list, but it's been growing-of the
Senators who have established district or
State selection commissions. And I hope
that this will continue.
I'm not prepared to comment on an
individual State. I have not seen the list,
have not been involved in that at all in,
you said, Virginia. But my influence will
2174
