Dec. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
4. Section 4 is amended to read as
follows:
"Sec. 4. Powers and Duties of the Fed-
eral Labor Relations Authority.
"(a) [Revoked].
"(b) The Authority shall administer
and interpret this Order, decide major
policy issues, and prescribe regulations.
"(c) The Authority shall, subject to its
regulations:
(1) decide questions as to the appro-
priate unit for the purpose of exclusive
recognition and related issues submitted
for its consideration;
(2) supervise elections to determine
whether a labor organization is the choice
of a majority of the employees in an ap-
propriate unit as their exclusive repre-
sentative, and certify the results;
(3) decide questions as to the eligi-
bility of labor organizations for national
consultation rights;
(4) decide unfair labor practice com-
plaints; and
(5) decide questions as to whether a
grievance is subject to a negotiated griev-
ance procedure or subject to arbitration
under an agreement as provided in Sec-
tion 13(d) of this Order.
"(d) The Authority may consider, sub-
ject to its regulations:
(1) appeals on negotiability issues as
provided in Section 11(c) of this Order;
(2) exceptions to arbitration awards;
(3) appeals from decisions of the As-
sistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-
Management Relations issued pursuant
to Section 6(b) of this Order; and
(4) other matters it deems appropriate
to assure the effectuation of the purposes
of this Order.
"(e) In any matters arising under sub-
section (c) and (d) (3) of this Section,
the Authority may require an agency or a
labor organization to cease and desist
from violations of this Order and require
it to take such affirmative action as the
Authority considers appropriate to effec-
tuate the policies of this Order.
"(f) In performing the duties imposed
on it by this Section, the Authority may
request and use the services and assistance
of employees of other agencies in accord-
ance with Section 1 of the Act of March 4,
1915 (38 Stat. 1084, as amended; 31
U.S.C. 686).".
5. The caption of Section 5 is amended
to read as follows:
"Sec. 5. Powers and Duties of the Fed-
eral Service Impasses Panel."
6. Section 5(a) is amended:
(a) by substituting the words "a dis-
tinct organizational entity within the Au-
thority" for the words "an agency within
the Council" in the first sentence; and
(b) by substituting the word "Author-
ity" for the word "Council" in the third
sentence.
7. Section 6 is amended to read as
follows:
"Sec. 6. Powers and Duties of the
Office of the General Counsel and the
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-
Management Relations.
"(a) The General Counsel is author-
ized, upon direction by the Authority, to;
(1) investigate complaints of violations
of Section 19 of this Order;
(2) make final decisions as to whether
to issue unfair labor practice complaints
and prosecute such complaints before the
Authority;
(3) direct and supervise all employees
in the Office of General Counsel, includ-
ing employees of the General Counsel in
the regional office of the Authority;
(4) perform such other duties as the
Authority may prescribe; and
(5) prescribe regulations needed to ad-
minister his functions under this Order.
"(b) The Assistant Secretary shall:
(1) decide alleged violations of the
standards of conduct for labor organiza-
2298
