Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
in the Congress this year. I really hope
it will pass. And we are fighting hard to
get it passed. I'll give you the reason for
it very quickly.
More and more our private hospitals
are being owned and managed by exactly
the people who decide whether or not you
go into the hospital in the first place
what kind of health care you get, how long
you stay, and how much to charge you.
It's almost a monopoly, quite often, in a
community. Because of that, health care
has gone up since 1960 1,000 percent.
I was in South Carolina last night. I
looked up the statistics: Last year in South
Carolina health care went up 20 percent.
The cost of health care for a given level of
treatment is doubling every 5 years. This
is the kind of thing that puts a tremendous,
uncontrollable burden on the American
people. And the charges in hospitals is go-
ing up twice as fast as the rate of inflation,
which is high enough on its own.
So, we're trying to get a hospital cost
containment bill passed. As soon as we can
get these things done that I've just out-
lined to you very briefly, we'll be ready to
move on a comprehensive health care
package.
Another thing that we must do is to
make sure that the Federal Government
agencies and State government agencies
and sometimes the local and private agen-
cies are brought together to administer
what we do have now in a much more
effective way.
The Congress is making good progress
on this. But we cannot afford just abruptly
to put into effect an entire health care pro-
gram that would cost the taxpayers maybe
$70 or $80 or $100 billion. We've got to
go into it step by step. Once we do the
things that I've just described to you,
we'll have a much better health care sys-
tem with no additional burden on the
American family for cost, and it'll be
much more comprehensive, as well. So,
that's what I think we ought to do in the
initial stages.
And the final conclusion of that whole
process will take a good while, I would
say,
at least 5 years. But we're not postponing
all these actions until 1983. We hope by
1983 that everything I've described to you
will have already been completed.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is George Henderson, Jr. I'm a resi-
dent here in Aliquippa. I would like to
ask you a question dealing with our edu-
cational system.
It is one thing to have had high school
dropouts to be mentioned throughout
various Presidential campaigns and what-
ever. I would like to know, have you in-
stituted yet into your so-called repertoire
of whatever you're going to do with our
country a means of contacting that young,
uneducated, unemployed black youth?
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the most
serious problems with the unemployment
question.
I said earlier that we've added a good
bit of job opportunities to our country's
society. We've a net increase, just since
I've been in office, of 6 million jobs, 6
million more jobs than we lost. At the
same time, we've had a substantial reduc-
tion in the unemployment rate, from
about 8 percent when I took over down to
already less than 6 percent. But we still
have pockets of unemployment in particu-
lar communities, and we have pockets of
unemployment in particular kinds of
Americans.
You've put your finger on the most im-
portant and unmet need, that is, young,
primarily male citizens from the minority
groups, either those who can't speak Eng-
lish well or those who are black. We've
had an addition of about 725,000 public
service jobs that are designed more and
more to focus on the kinds of people that
1607
