Sept. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of old and Americans of Scandinavian de-
scent today.
As a mark of respect for the achieve-
ments of Leif Erikson and his followers,
the Congress of the United States, by joint
resolution approved September 2, 1964
(78 Stat. 849, 36 U.S.C. 169c), authorized
the President to proclaim October 9 in
each year as Leif Erikson Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Monday, October
9, 1978, as Leif Erikson Day and I direct
the appropriate government officials to
display the flag of the United States on all
government buildings that day.
I also invite the people of the United
States to honor the memory of Leif Erik-
son on that day by holding appropriate
exercises and ceremonies in suitable places
throughout our land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this fifth day of September,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hun-
dred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:44 p.m., September 5, 1978]
Presidential Commission on
World Hunger
Executive Order 12078. September 5, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to create
in accordance with the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an ad-
visory commission on the problems of
hunger and malnutrition, it is hereby or-
dered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of Commission.
1-101. There is established the Presi-
dential Commission on World Hunger.
1-102. The membership of the Com-
mission shall be composed of not more
than 20 persons from among citizens in
public and private life as follows:
(a) Sixteen members shall be appointed
by the President, who shall designate a
Chairman and two Vice Chairmen.
(b) The President of the Senate and
the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives are each invited to designate two
Members of their respective Houses to
serve on the Commission.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall develop
factual data as to the causes of world hun-
ger
and malnutrition. It shall review exist-
ing authorities and programs, public and
private, national and international, which
seek to address the problems of hunger
and malnutrition; and, shall assess the ex-
tent to which those programs are meeting
their objectives, and why.
1-202. In developing its data and as-
sessing existing programs, the Commis-
sion shall review existing studies on world
hunger and malnutrition, conduct addi-
tional studies where necessary, and hold
such hearings or inquiries as may be
helpful.
1-203. The Commission shall develop
recommendations designed to signifi-
cantly reduce world hunger and malnu-
trition; and, shall develop various options
for harnessing available resources to carry
out those recommendations, including
policy options for improving the capacity
of the United States to reduce the prob-
lems of world hunger and malnutrition.
1-204. In developing its recommenda-
tions, the Commission shall encourage
public participation by holding hearings,
issuing reports, and coordinating, spon-
soring, or overseeing projects, studies, and
1498
