Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
robbing us all. Deficit spending was
caused by inefficiency.
We've tried to make the government
more responsive to meet people's needs at
the delivery end of the cycle, because
you've never seen a hungry child fed with
waste or educated with inefficiency.
You've never seen a house built with a
cumbersome bureaucracy, and you've
never seen people's needs met with ever-
increasing Federal deficits to put a bur-
den on us all.
And Bill Beckham in the Treasury De-
partment, Bunny Mitchell and Louis
Martin in the White House, the Black
Caucus, and you and I have moved to
correct these deficiencies. We've got a
long way to go. Inflation is still with us.
But together, I believe that we can turn
that corner and let people have a stable
and a predictable and a sure future.
We inherited, also, the aftermath of the
Vietnam war, a war that was distorted be-
cause it was waged against people far
away, whose skins were yellow. Our draft
laws, the policy of the Department of the
Army and others, had been oriented to
draft and send overseas the poor and the
black who couldn't afford to send their
sons to college.
Our country had a consciousness that
we were not committed to the purity of
peace; we were committed to the filth of
war. Now we've changed that attitude.
Clifford Alexander is now the great Secre-
tary of the Army, and we are staying
strong to preserve the peace. But we've
also got a fine leader of the Peace Corps,
Carolyn Payton. And we're trying to ex-
tend the influence of our country in a be-
neficent way, not a condemnatory way
throughout the world.
I'd like to mention one other thing that
concerns me, because this is one of the
greatest defects that our country has sus-
tained for a full 200 years, and that is a
foreign policy that was misapplied. As I
said to the Democratic fundraiser early
this week, as a Governor of Georgia, as
a candidate for President, I used to shrink
up and dread the day each fall when the
United Nations General Assembly began
its deliberations, because I knew that my
country, which I love, would be the target
of every attack and the butt of every joke
among two-thirds of the nations on Earth.
We were despised and condemned by
the small nations, the new nations, the
weak nations, the nations whose people
were black or brown or yellow. We had
ignored the great continent of Africa. Our
Nation had espoused and supported rac-
ist regimes, dictatorships. Our own Sec-
retary of State was not permitted to go
into Nigeria 3 or 4 years ago—as you
know, one of the greatest nations on
Earth, with about a hundred million peo-
ple and great wealth, very influential.
But now I don't dread to see the Gen-
eral Assembly called to order, because
we've got new friends all over the world.
And they've been brought to our side not
by me, although my commitment is there,
but by people like Terry Todman, Don
McHenry, and a man who's not afraid to
speak out when he sees something wrong,
Andy Young.
The General Assembly is in session now,
you know. Is Andy Young here tonight?
He's a Black Caucus member, and he's a
preacher. [Laughter]
Well, let me tell you this: I don't know
of anyone who serves in the administra-
tion of Jimmy Carter who has done more
for our country throughout the world
than Andy Young. [Applause] And one
other comment-I was going to make it
even if you hadn't stood up-[laughter]—
as long as I'm President and Andy Young
is willing to stay there, he'll be the United
Nations Ambassador.
1682
