Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and I together might enjoy stronger fam-
ilies and a greater and stronger nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:24 p.m. at the
Mormon Tabernacle after receiving the Fam-
ily Unity Award, a statuette entitled "Love
at Home," from Spencer W. Kimball, president
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Francisco's gay community who kept his
promise to represent all his constituents.
Rosalynn and I express our deepest
sympathies to the families and friends of
both men.
Saints. In his opening remarks, he also referred Radioactivity Exposure in Utah
to President Marion G. Romney, second coun-
selor, and President N. Eldon Tanner, first
counselor, of the First Presidency of the Mor-
mon Church.
The ceremonies were held in conjunction
with National Family Week, 1978, which was
proclaimed by the President on October 20 by
Proclamation 4606.
George Moscone and
Harvey Milk
Statement on the Death of the Two
San Francisco Officials. November 27, 1978
I know I speak on behalf of the Nation
when I express a sense of outrage and
sadness at the senseless killings today of
San Francisco Mayor George Moscone
and Supervisor Harvey Milk.
George Moscone had long and ably
served the people of the San Francisco
area. At age 33 he became one of the
youngest members ever elected to the San
Francisco Board of Supervisors. He was
elected three times to the California State
Senate before becoming San Francisco's
mayor in 1976.
In every conversation with Mayor
Moscone, I always knew that the people
of San Francisco and California were
uppermost in his mind and heart. He was
a good and kind man, and he will be
sorely missed.
Supervisor Milk was a hard-working
and dedicated supervisor, a leader of San
Statement Announcing a Review of Earlier
Federal Studies. November 27, 1978
Governor Matheson has expressed his
concern over the possible health implica-
tions for people in Utah who were ex-
posed to radioactive particles as a result
of Defense Department testing of atomic
bombs in the 1950's.
The Governor has asked me to review
the findings of earlier Federal studies in
Utah on the effects of exposure to radio-
active particles on health and to deter-
mine whether or not a more comprehen-
sive study is indicated.
I am today directing the Secretary of
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare to take the following
actions:
-reevaluate the findings of earlier
studies conducted in the State to de-
termine whether or not the rate of
illness or death from leukemia is dis-
proportionately large in Utah,
particularly in the southwestern
counties;
-reopen a study conducted in the late
1960's on the incidence of thyroid
disease; and
-consult with State officials and con-
sider the possibility of developing a
larger, more complete study if indi-
cated.
I have asked Secretary Califano to
work closely with the State of Utah as he
2088
