Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 17
including renewable, energy sources and
the more efficient use of existing sources.
14. In energy development, the en-
vironment and human safety of the popu-
lation must be safeguarded with greatest
care.
15. To help developing countries, we
will intensify our national development
assistance programs in the energy field
and we will develop a co-ordinated effort
to bring into use renewable energy tech-
nologies and to elaborate the details
within one year. We suggest that the
OECD will provide the medium for co-
operation with other countries.
16. We stress the need for improvement
and co-ordination of assistance for devel-
oping countries in the energy field. We
suggest that the World Bank explore ways
in which its activities in this field can be
made increasingly responsive to the needs
of the developing countries, and to exam-
ine whether new approaches, particu-
larly to financing hydrocarbon explora-
tion, would be useful.
TRADE
17. We reaffirm our determination to
expand international trade one of the
driving forces for more sustained and bal-
anced economic growth. Through our
joint efforts we will
we will maintain and
maintain and
strengthen the open international trading
system. We appreciate and support the
progress as set forth in the Framework of
Understanding on the Tokyo Round of
Multilateral Trade Negotiations made
public in Geneva, July 13th, 1978, even
though within this Framework of under-
standing some difficult and important
issues remain unresolved.
The successful conclusion of these nego-
tiations, the biggest yet held, would mean
not just a major trade liberalisation pro-
gramme extending over the 1980s but the
most important progress yet made in the
GATT in relation to non-tariff measures.
Thus the GATT rules would be brought
more closely into line with the require-
ments of the next decade-particularly
in relation to safeguards-in ways which
could avoid any weakening of the world
trading system and be of benefit to all
trading countries developed and develop-
ing alike. A substantially higher degree of
equity and discipline in the international
trading system would be achieved by the
creation of new mechanisms in many
fields for consultation and dispute settle-
ment. Uniform application of the GATT
rules is vital and we shall move in that
direction as soon as possible.
In all areas of the negotiations the
Summit countries look forward to work-
ing even more closely with the developing
countries. We seek to ensure for all par-
ticipants a sound and balanced result,
which adequately takes into account the
needs of developing countries, for ex-
ample, through special and differential
treatment, and which brings about their
greater participation in the benefits and
obligations of the world trading system.
At last year's Downing Street Summit
we rejected a protectionist course for
world trade. We agreed to give a new im-
petus to the Tokyo Round. Our negotia-
tors have fulfilled that commitment. To-
day we charge them, in co-operation with
the other participants, to resolve the out-
standing issues and to conclude success-
fully the detailed negotiations by Decem-
ber 15, 1978.
18. We note with satisfaction the re-
newal of the pledge to maintain an open
market oriented economic system made by
the OECD Council of Ministers last
month. Today's world economic problems
cannot be solved by relapsing into open or
concealed protectionism.
19. We welcome the statement on
positive adjustment policy made by the
OECD Ministers. There must be a readi-
1313
