Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
mutation of the world economy. People
toss around phrases like "the need to re-
define comprehensive international com-
parative advantage"-OECD comes up
with "positive adjustment measure,
which means progressive transference of
primacy of certain industries, LDC's and
so on.
This is really a question about the do-
mestic cognates, since domestic and in-
ternational are really opposite, different
ends of the same poles. Question: Are we
at a point where we need a comprehen-
sive domestic strategy and articulation of
the responsibilities we must go through
as our part of this transformation, rather
than picking out a trade adjustment here
and putting down an interest pressure
there? Do we need it so that there's a con-
text of understanding to which we can all
have reference as we must address this
and make adjustments in our lives as well
as in particular?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the an-
swer to that question is that the develop-
ing nations of the world are much more
committed to an all-encompassing, new
international economic order. And the
developed nations of the world are much
more reticent about committing ourselves
to that undefined premise that might put
constraints or obligations on us that we
don't presently envision.
We obviously want to increase trade
with the less developed countries. We
want to see them get a fair and stable
price for raw materials. We want to make
sure that the balance-of-trade items that
concern us as a tiny part of our own econ-
omy are not devastating, because they are
the major part of the smaller countries'
economies. We are trying to be sure that
when we make decisions on sensitive
items in our own Nation, like sugar or
beef or tin or copper, that these decisions
don't disrupt completely the economies
of countries that are heavily dependent
on that item. That's what I mean by what
I just described.
A common fund is a phrase that's been
discussed a great deal. I think we would
cautiously approach a common fund if
it means the pooling of several items so
that you could constrain wild fluctua-
tions in prices and supplies. But for heavy
additional allocation of money to a fund
from the developed countries, it would be
in effect administered by the developing
nations, is something that we are reluc-
tant to do.
We have tried, however, to increase our
bilateral allocation of aid to these coun-
tries, recognizing that it's not just a hand-
out; it's a very good investment for us in
the future.
We've encouraged our own industrial
leaders to explore opportunities for invest-
ment in other countries, particularly in
areas where it's not highly competitive
with American jobs, when the unemploy-
ment rate is high here.
We've tried to increase our allocation of
funds to the World Bank, the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, and have actually
created the Caribbean Group, a 30-nation
organization, to help with economic
development.
So, I think your question is an excel-
lent one. The answer is complicated, be-
cause we feel that it's best to address these
matters on a multifaceted basis rather
than just giving a general commitment to
the type of aid that, I would guess, is still
not clearly defined in the minds of those
who demand it. We don't want to have a
breach of friendship in the future, be-
cause the expectation is much higher for
the future than we ever intended when
we made a cautious commitment.
It's a difficult subject. It's one that we
haven't adequately addressed. And there's
still a diversity of opinion among the de-
veloped countries of the world.
1601
