Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of
Environmental Modification Techniques,
signed at Geneva on May 18, 1977.
The Convention is the result of exten-
sive study, debate, and negotiation at the
Conference of the Committee on Disarm-
ament at Geneva and at the United Na-
tions. It seeks to avert the dangers result-
the Convention, and advise and consent
to its ratification.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 22, 1978.
Statement by the President.
September 22, 1978
ing from the hostile use of environmental Jewish High Holy Days
modification techniques "having wide-
spread, long-lasting or severe effects as the
means of destruction, damage or injury to
any other State Party."
In 1973, growing awareness of the need
for protecting our environment led to the
adoption of Senate Resolution 71 which
urged the Executive Branch to negotiate
a treaty prohibiting environmental war-
fare. The United States and the Soviet
Union, after three rounds of bilateral con-
sultations, tabled identical draft texts of a
multilateral convention at the Conference
of the Committee on Disarmament in
1975. Negotiations on the basis of these
texts resulted in the document I am trans-
mitting to you today.
I am also sending with the Convention
four Understandings relating to Articles
I, II, III and VIII, respectively. These
Understandings are not incorporated into
the Convention. They are part of the
negotiating record and were included in
the report transmitted by the Conference
of the Committee on Disarmament to the
United Nations. The provisions of the
Convention and the Understandings are
described in detail in the accompanying
report of the Department of State.
By prohibiting the hostile use of poten-
tially disastrous environmental modifica-
tion techniques, the Convention repre-
sents one more advance in the field of
arms control to which my Administration
is firmly committed. I recommend that
the Senate give prompt consideration to
On the eve of the High Holy Days, Ros-
alynn and I extend our heartfelt greetings
to all our fellow citizens of the Jewish
faith. Rosh Hashonah and Yom Kippur
are supreme moments of moral and spir-
itual stocktaking, both in personal and in
community life.
Few utterances of the human spirit are
more moving and ennobling than that
found in the Jewish High Holiday prayer:
"May they all (all people) form one com-
panionship to do Thy Will with a single
heart."
This message has a special urgency this
year in the part of the world where the
Western world's great religions, including
Judaism, were born. The possibility of
peace in the Middle East has seldom been
greater. Whether that possibility is real-
ized will depend on the degree to which
all concerned can act, in the prayer's
words, "with a single heart.”
Human solidarity is based on profound
respect for the right of each group to be it-
self and to be true to its own heritage and
culture. This philosophy has been trans-
lated into reality in the religious pluralism
and mutual caring which are distinctive
features of American democracy.
Our 200-year-old American experience
with unity in diversity may be the most
important cultural and spiritual example
we have to offer the world. American
1565
