Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 13
Goodloe E. Byron
Statement on the Death of the Representative
From Maryland. October 12, 1978
I am saddened by the untimely death
yesterday of Representative Goodloe E.
Byron.
Representative Byron was unusually
close to the people of his district; he was
never too busy to act as their friend and
advocate in their dealings with the Fed-
eral Government.
He introduced the legislation which cre-
ated the Monocacy Battlefield National
Park, and he further expressed his love of
the outdoors by sponsorship of the legisla-
tion I signed in March which protects
and preserves for all time the Appalachian
Trail.
The delight of many thousands of tour-
ists and hikers will be his best memorial.
Mrs. Carter and I extend our deepest
sympathy to Representative Byron's
family.
Civil Service Reform Act
of 1978
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
October 13, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I think this is a happy
day for our country, and I want, first of
all, to express my deep appreciation to
those who are assembled around me and
to many others who serve in the Congress
who have made this remarkable achieve-
ment possible.
Seven months ago, we began an effort
that many people predicted would end in
failure, but this ceremony commemorates
the courage and the ability, the dedica-
tion of the Members of the Congress to a
very noble effort.
During my campaign for President, I
made reorganization of the Government a
top priority, and this monumental civil
service reform bill takes a long step toward
meeting that commitment to the Ameri-
can people. It's a centerpiece of our ef-
forts, joint efforts to bring efficiency and
accountability and competence to the Fed-
eral Government that will exceed what
we have known in the past.
This legislation provides a fundamental
and, I think, long overdue reform of the
Federal bureaucracy. Ninety-five years
ago, a civil service was created to put an
end to the abuses brought about by the
political spoils system. Today, I'm happy
to sign this bill which marks the first
major change in the civil service in nearly
a century.
This bill changes the rules in a con-
structive fashion, a carefully considered
fashion. It puts incentive and reward back
into the Federal system. It allows Federal
employees to be encouraged, transferred,
or discharged for the right reasons if they
cannot or will not perform. And it pre-
vents discouraging or punishing them for
the wrong reasons, for whistleblowing or
for personal whim in violation of basic
employee rights. This bill will make the
bureaucracy more responsible. It will
build in incentives. Excellence can now
be rewarded.
In being fair to Federal employees, we
must also and will be fair to those who
pay our salaries, the American taxpayers.
Our Nation was built on a system of re-
wards and incentives in the private sector
of our lives. "You get what you pay for"
is part of the American folk wisdom. Civil
service reform will help taxpayers get
what they have been paying for.
Promotions will no longer be automatic.
From now on, promotions and pay in-
creases will be a sign of jobs well done in
the Federal Government, just as it is in
every successful American private busi-
1761
