Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population
if necessary for reasons of public safety,
administration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:58 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Denali National Monument are printed in
the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 5, 1978.
Gates of the Arctic
National Monument
Proclamation 4617. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Lying wholly north of the Arctic Circle,
the Gates of the Arctic National Monu-
ment hereby created preserves an area
containing a wide variety of interior arctic
geological and biological forms. The es-
sence of the geology of the area is its great
diversity. There are excellent examples of
glacial action which formed U-shaped
valleys and morraine-dammed lakes. In
contrast are the fissure-shaped precipices
of Ernie Creek and the tilted limestone
blocks along the northern edge of the
Brooks Range.
Associated with these various land
forms is a progression of ecosystems repre-
senting a continuum of communities from
the boreal spruce forest and riparian shrub
thickets in the south to the arctic tussock
tundra in the north. These communities
of plants and undisturbed animals offer
excellent opportunities for study of natu-
ral interaction of the species.
The monument also protects a substan-
tial portion of the habitat requirements
for the Western Arctic caribou herd which
uses ancient routes through the mountains
for migration. This herd, which has suf-
fered severe population losses recently, is
of great value for the study of the popu-
lation dynamics relating to both the de-
cline and recovery of the herd.
The archeological and historical sig-
nificance of the area is demonstrated by
the studies which have revealed evidence
of human habitation for approximately
7,000 years. Several known traditional
Indian-Eskimo trade routes run through
the monument area giving the promise of
further important archeological discover-
ies. In the Wiseman and Ernie's Cabin
mining regions in the south are offered
opportunities for historical study of the
life of the Alaskan pioneer miner of the
early twentieth century.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the biological, geological, archeological,
historical, and other phenomena enumer-
ated above supports now, as it has in the
past, the unique subsistence culture of the
local residents. The continued existence
2123
