Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 27
I
equity for women and girls in education.
During my Administration, the Council
has been given an expanded mandate to
help implement laws prohibiting sex dis-
crimination in Federally-assisted educa-
tion programs.
These are only a few high points of the
report which surveys our progress over the
past eighteen months. My Administration
has been able to achieve this record in
large part because of the unstinting efforts
of the many dedicated women within
the Government. For these efforts I am
grateful.
RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE CONGRESS
For 131 years after the ratification of
the U.S. Constitution, American women
could not vote. Since women's suffrage in
1920, there has been considerable progress
in legislative and executive action to pro-
vide equity for women. That progress has
accelerated in my Administration. From
1923 to 1972, the Equal Rights Amend-
ment languished in Congress. In 1972,
Congress took a bold and affirmative step
to guarantee equal rights for women. It
only remains for three more states to join
the majority of our nation in passing this
historic amendment. ERA must be passed
not only for ourselves, but to free our sons
and daughters to participate fully in our
nation's future.
Our nation benefits when women, as
well as men, are freed from stereotypes
and given a broader range of choices. Our
nation benefits when all women may enter
the mainstream of American life, and
their talents and abilities are valued and
rewarded. Our nation benefits when the
freedom of all Americans is enhanced by
greater freedom for American women.
We can increase this freedom.
I ask you now to join with me in guar-
anteeing full equity for women in the
United States, and to pass in an accept-
able form without delay:
H.J. Res. 638 and S.J. Res. 134 Ex-
tension of the Deadline for Ratifica-
tion of the Equal Rights Amend-
ments.
• H.R. 11086 (H.R. 12452) and S.
2570 Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act.
• H.R. 50 and S. 50 Full Employment
and Balanced Growth Act of 1978
(Humphrey-Hawkins Bill).
• H.R. 6075 and S. 995 Pregnancy Dis-
ability Act.
• H.R. 11280 and S. 2640 Civil Service
Reform Act.
• H.R. 9030 (H.R. 19050) and S. 2084
Better Jobs and Income Act (Wel-
fare Reform).
These bills, which are pending before
Congress, will greatly enhance the civil
rights, employment and economic oppor-
tunities of women. Extension of the Dead-
line for Ratification of the Equal Rights
Amendment recently passed the House
by an overwhelming majority. I congratu-
late the House and call upon the Senate
to take similar action. The Equal Rights
Amendment is needed as a constitutional
protection against discrimination on the
basis of sex. The Comprehensive Employ-
ment and Training Act (CETA) and the
Better Jobs and Income Act (Welfare Re-
form), will, among other things, enable
employment training and support services
for displaced homemakers and low in-
come women. In addition, CETA will
protect against sex role stereotyping in
Federal training programs and sex dis-
crimination in placement in Federally-
subsidized jobs. The Civil Service Reform
Act and the Humphrey-Hawkins Bill will
improve employment opportunities for
the most recent entrants to the labor mar-
ket-women and youth. And, the Preg-
nancy Disability Act, which is now in con-
ference, will protect the health benefits of
pregnant workers by making it unlawful
1643
