Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
very good support from the North Caro-
lina congressional delegation, that the
best support from any Congressman in
Washington from North Carolina was
from your friend and my friend, Lamar
Gudger. I thank him, and I thank
you for
sending him there. And I have to make
one request of you: When November
comes, I want you to send him back with
the biggest margin of any Democratic
candidate in the whole United States.
He has helped me on things that are
important to you, along, I have to admit,
with other people on this platform-Bob
Scott and the other Members of
Congress.
When I went into the White House, we
had a very serious series of problems. As
a farmer, as a warehouseman, as someone
who's lived in agriculture all my life, I
know how bad the farm depression was
20 months ago, 24 months ago. Those of
you who are interested in agriculture,
think back—prices were going down that
the farmers got for our products, prices
that they paid for fertilizer, seed, equip-
ment were going up much more rapidly.
Net farm income was dropping.
Last year, October 1, on my birthday,
we put into effect a brand new agriculture
bill. And since then, farmers' spirits,
farmers' well-being have been going up.
This is a great stride forward.
Another problem that I had when I
became President was the high unemploy-
ment rate that Bob Morgan mentioned.
When I became President, there were 10
million Americans who could not find a
full-time job. More than 7 million Ameri-
cans did not have a job at all. The unem-
ployment rate had been going up steadily
almost for the preceding 8 years. And the
Congress and I formed a partnership to
try to do something about it. Since that
time, we've had a net increase of over 6
million new jobs in the United States.
The unemployment rate has dropped 2
full percentage points nationwide, and it's
holding steady and progressing in the di-
rection that you want it to move. This
could not have been done without cooper-
ation. And one of the best things about
our programs that we've put forward is
that we've done it not depending just on
government handouts and jobs—they've
been important for some special groups—
but we've tried to strengthen the private
enterprise system to let private jobs, per-
manent jobs be the root of the progress
we have made. And that's what we're go-
ing to do in the future.
I've always been concerned about the
Government bureaucracy. I talked about
it a lot during the campaign. It's one of
the reasons I was elected President. I
thought it was bad, but when I got to
Washington, it was a lot worse than I
thought it was. And we've done some-
thing about it.
Early last year, the Congress gave me
the authority to reorganize the structure
of Government, and we've put forward a
series of reorganization plans. There's not
been a single one refused by the Congress.
This is an extraordinary, unprecedented
achievement.
In the past, Democratic and Republi-
can Presidents have only been successful
in having the Congress approve about one
out of three of the proposals made. But
it shows the harmony that does exist be-
tween a Democratic Congress and a Dem-
ocratic President answering the demands
of the American people.
For the first time in almost a hundred
years, we now have civil service reform
on the verge of being passed, thanks to
many of you who've let your Members of
Congress know how important it is to you.
We've got hundreds of thousands of
competent, dedicated public servants who
work under the civil service system. They
want to do a better job. They want to see
excellence and dedicated employees re-
1576
