Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
planned my Presidential campaign for 2
years before I made my plans public, and
I campaigned, I and my family and many
helpers, for 2 more years.
In the energy bill passed this morning,
there were literally tens of thousands of
hours of work put in by me, my assistants
in the executive branch of Government,
the Members of the Congress, their staff
members and advisers.
Lyndon Baines Johnson, who was very
effective in dealing with the Congress, was
never able to extricate our country from
a bitter and divisive war in Vietnam.
Teddy Roosevelt said that the White
House was a bully pulpit. Franklin Delano
Roosevelt said that the primary purpose
of a President was to be a moral leader.
And it's aways a danger for those in posi-
tions of leadership to moralize or to
When I prepared to go to Camp David preach to others or to ascribe superior
to meet with President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin, I put in hundreds of hours
studying the history of the Middle East,
the character of the two leaders, the at-
titudes of the people involved, the issues
involved, the disputes, the future.
Only with tenacity and knowledge and
hard work can any achievement be
reached. I've never seen an exception to
this, at least in my own life.
Everyone has limits on authority or in-
fluence. You do, and so do I. The Con-
stitution of the United States puts very
severe limits on a President. This is often
seen in a President's struggle to deal with
the problems of the day.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was well
known as one of the most powerful and
influential Presidents of history. But in the
last 7 years of his administration, ever
since 1938, until he died in 1945, he was
never able to get a single important piece
of legislation through the Congress.
Woodrow Wilson, a great and inspiring
leader, was not able to implement through
the Senate of the United States the rati-
fication of the League of Nations, which
might very well have prevented World
War II.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy, an inspira-
tional leader, admired by the world, had
a very ineffective dealing with the Con-
gress on major legislation like civil rights
and others.
characteristics to oneself or to those one
leads. And it's very difficult for Ameri-
cans to realize that we are not superior to
other people.
We need to have increased trust in our
Nation, the recognition of its innate
strength, trust in its elected officials, the
overwhelming majority of whom are hon-
est and sincere and dedicated and only
wanting to do one thing, and that's a good
job, if for no other reason just to be
elected. But I believe they're all dedicated
in trying to have a better country through
a better government.
In the past we have seen trust in gov-
ernment lost, and the only way I know to
restore trust in government is for the gov-
ernment to be trustworthy, to be be open
and honest, ethical, committed to peace,
epitomizing the ideals and aspirations on
which our country was originally founded.
Well, for you and for me, present, po-
tential, and future leaders, we face pos-
sibly an escalating or growing prospect for
change and for conflict within our coun-
try's people.
Ours is a nation of diversity. We've now
got about 150 other nations on Earth.
Social, economic, military, political inter-
relationships change very rapidly, and
the conflicts are inevitable. But we have a
great responsibility as a leading nation and
as leaders within our Nation to orient this
change and this conflict in a constructive
way toward better security for all, obvious-
ly for our own country: strength, not
1997
