Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 25
that was Hamilton's friend. That was a
beautiful boat.
THE PRESIDENT. It had a yawl.
MR. POWELL. I don't know the tech-
nical-
THE PRESIDENT. No, it was a ketch.
MR. POWELL. It was all wood and brass.
Q. Do you like the Grand Tetons?
THE PRESIDENT. Gee, that's something
else, really beautiful. We went all around
the island. We had a brisk wind when we
went out, but there was just almost no
wind coming in. It was nice.
Q. Have you been doing any work to-
day, as well as having a little fun?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had a whole
stack of paperwork this morning, made a
few telephone calls.
Q. How does it look on the natural gas
bill? Do you think you're in trouble there?
THE PRESIDENT. I made several calls
last night and this morning about that.
Q. Have you talked again to the Vice
President?
THE PRESIDENT. I talked to him this
morning and last night. He's on the way
to Texas.
Q. This coalition was unexpected,
wasn't it?
THE PRESIDENT. It's the same coalition
that's been evident among the conferees.
You've got half on one side and half on
the other that don't want a natural gas
bill, and you've got the gas-producing
States that want more money out of it,
and you've got others that don't want any
deregulation of natural gas ever. And
that's why it's been so finely balanced.
As you know, we almost didn't get one
vote in the House and almost didn't get
one vote in the Senate to give us a major-
ity in the conference. The same basic
problem.
Q. Do you think you can put your com-
promise together again?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. Of
course, what they'll vote on now is the
conference committee report. It's not a
matter of redrafting. But it's going to be
after the 11th.
Q. Were you surprised by Senator
Baker's statement the other day that he
would not support cloture?
THE PRESIDENT. I talked to Senator
Baker last night. He's got an open mind
about it.
THE PRESIDENT. He's backing off that
hard statement that he took?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not trying to
speak for him. But he said he wanted to
look it over carefully and see what the en-
tire energy package looked like. Obvi-
ously, the whole energy picture is in-
volved, including nuclear power and gas,
oil, coal, solar. It's extremely compli-
cated, just one of those difficult things to
put together.
Q. Senator McClure is indicating at this
point that there was some sort of a trade-
off for his vote on the possibility of put-
ting the nuclear reactor, the breeder re-
actor over in Idaho?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Dr. Schlesinger
and Stu Eizenstat had a press conference
today and explained what happened
about that. We did not change our posi-
tion. I am not in favor of the Clinch River
Breeder Reactor. We have always been in
favor of a research and development pro-
gram on breeder technology to investigate
safety features, design features.
We offered a compromise in the House
that was narrowly rejected. We maintain
our position. We are in favor of a 3-year
program on basic design work, no com-
mitment to build. This is the agreement
we worked out with McClure. The only-
just to explain my position, we want to
be sure that we weren't terminating the
breeder program altogether. The amount
of money involved, the way I understand
the figures, is less than the amount the
House already approved and less than the
amount that the Energy Committee in the
Senate had approved. But I think that
Senator McClure was trying to make it
look as though he had won a great victory
1477
