Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
standing, is that the national payroll and
private sector is around a trillion dollars.
And if you work it out, it comes out to
somewhere in the neighborhood, just on
those very basic pieces of mathematics, to
about a $10 billion cost of that plan. So,
how will that be paid for?
GOVERNOR
LIEUTENANT
Thank you very much.
O'NEILL.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me try to answer
the statement first.
We are cutting down the portion of
our gross national product that is col-
lected and spent by the Federal Govern-
ment. I inherited, as you know, a 1976
deficit that was $66 billion. At that time,
the Federal Government was taking out of
the American economy and putting back
23 percent of our GNP. We are cutting
that down to 21 percent, a substantial
reduction over what I inherited.
We believe that we are contributing to
inflation when we have a high budget
deficit. That's one of the reasons that I
have pledged myself to continue the
downward trend.
The Nunn amendment was not rejected
by me--although I did not support it—it
was rejected with good unanimity among
the House and Senate conferees when the
tax legislation was proposed to me.
I think it might be good to let Fred
Kahn follow up very briefly and then
perhaps either cover the wage insurance
question or let Charlie Schultze cover it
very quickly. But the essence of it is that
the more wage earners and manufactur-
ers who agree to reduce both wage de-
mands and prices, the more that we will
be guaranteed that the insurance cost will
be minimal or nonexistent. And, of
course, the fewer people that agree to
hold down wages, the fewer that will be
eligible for insurance, if we are not able
to control inflation.
Our goal is to control inflation, not to
pay off on high insurance payments. But
this is a good inducement and a good
guarantee for those enlightened workers
who say, "We do want to control inflation.
We're willing to make some small sacri-
fice, but we don't want to pay if others
don't agree."
So, this is what the wage insurance will
do. I hope the Congress will pass it. Per-
haps Kahn and Schultze can make brief
additional comments.
LIEUTENANT
GOVERNOR O'NEILL.
Well, Mr. President, we've got a rule that
we're going to let the panelists participate
and summarize in the last 15 minutes of
the segment.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. I'd
like to give everybody an opportunity to
come up and ask a question. And if you
could hold yourselves to a very brief ques-
tion, I would certainly appreciate it.
MEAT IMPORTS
Q. I'm going to answer the same way—
tell you who I am as I did in 1975, fall, to
Van Dusen's house in Cedar Rapids. He
candidate Jimmy Carter then, at Joyce
walked up to the mike and says, "I'm go-
ing to be your next President." After he
give us the answer period, I told him who
I was.
I'm Harry G. Powell, Senior, from
Newton Township, the Cannon County,
the Third District of the State of Iowa.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. Sir,
will you speak right into the microphone,
please?
Q. I never had-only twice in my life
have I ever talked in one of these.
[Laughter]
My county is next to the largest pork-
producing county in the United States.
Delaware is first. Now, agriculture, to me,
is one of the greatest part of the economy.
You may wonder why I don't go to the
Agriculture Department here.
2212
