Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
at Camp David over long days of nego-
tiation, concerning the West Bank and
Gaza Strip. I think they're acting in good
faith to set up an autonomous governing
entity in the West Bank, Gaza Strip, to
withdraw their military government very
expeditiously. And I think the settlements
issue still remains open, but it's subject to
a negotiation.
And last time I had a press conference,
I read the statement that Foreign Minis-
ter Dayan made in Israel-which I think
is adequate combined with a cessation of
settlement activity altogether, between
now and the time the self-government is
set up.
The role of our Government-our posi-
tion has always been that the settlements
in occupied territory are illegal and are
an obstacle to peace. I've not changed my
opinion. But to summarize, I don't be-
lieve that this one issue, if unresolved ex-
peditiously, would prevent the peace
treaty between Israel and Egypt.
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about Iran. How do we view the situation
involving the Shah there now? Is he se-
cure? How important is it to U.S. inter-
ests that the Shah remain in power? And
what, if anything, can the United States
Government do to keep him in power?
THE PRESIDENT. The strategic impor-
tance to our country, I think to the en-
tire Western World, of a good relationship
with a strong and independent Iran is
crucial. We have historic friendships with
Iran. I think they are a great stabilizing
force in their part of the world. They are
a very important trade partner. They've
acted very responsibly.
My own belief is that the Shah has
moved aggressively to establish demo-
cratic principles in Iran and to have a
progressive attitude towards social ques-
tions, social problems. This has been the
source of much of the opposition to him
in Iran.
We have no inclination to try to decide
the internal affairs of Iran. My own hopes
have been that there could be peace there,
an end to bloodshed, and an orderly
transformation into more progressive so-
cial arrangements and, also, increased
democratization of the government itself,
which I believe the Shah also espouses. He
may not be moving fast enough for some;
he may be moving too fast for others. I
don't want to get involved in that specifics.
PRESIDENT'S POPULARITY IN WESTERN
STATES
Q. Mr. President, could I just ask you a
political question? You've been making a
rapid rise in the polls lately, but some
Democrats out in the West don't seem to
believe that. Governor Lamm said some-
thing to the effect that you're about as
popular in the West as Sherman in Geor-
gia-[laughter]—and he said he was not
even sure you would feel welcome there,
was not sure it would be of benefit to
Democrats out there even if you came out
to campaign for them. I was just wonder-
ing, sir, how do you think that situation.
has developed?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think my pop-
ularity with Governor Lamm has fluctu-
ated very much since I've been in office.
It's always been about the same as you've
just described. [Laughter] But I've been to
Colorado to campaign in his presence and,
also, for Senator Haskell and the congres-
sional delegation, and was well received
there.
I think it's accurate to say that most of
the Western Governors and, I think, most
of the Members of the Congress from the
West have been strongly supportive of the
basic positions that I've taken on issues
that were highly controversial. And I feel
1750
