Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 26
5. Tax Measures. I am hopeful that
Congress will work with the administra-
tion to promptly resolve the tax problems
of Americans employed abroad, many
of
whom are directly involved in export ef-
forts. Last February, I proposed tax re-
lief for these citizens amounting to about
$250 million a year. I think this proposal,
which Congress has not approved, deals
fairly and, during a time of great budget
stringency, responsibly with this problem.
I remain ready to work with the Congress
to resolve this issue, but I cannot support
proposals which run contrary to
strong concerns for budget prudence and
tax equity.
My administration's concern for ex-
ports is matched by our obligation to en-
sure that government-sponsored export
incentives constitute an efficient use of the
taxpayers' money. The DISC tax provi-
sion simply does not meet that basic test.
It is a costly (over $1 billion a year) and
inefficient incentive for exports. I con-
tinue to urge Congress to phase DISC out
or at least make it simpler, less costly, and
more effective than it is now, and my ad-
ministration stands ready to work with
Congress toward that goal.
REDUCTION OF DOMESTIC BARRIERS TO
EXPORTS
Direct financial and technical assist-
ance to United States firms should en-
courage them to take advantage of the in-
creasing competitiveness of our goods in
international markets. Equally important
will be the reduction of Government-
imposed disincentives and barriers which
unnecessarily inhibit our firms from sell-
ing abroad. We can and will continue to
administer the laws and policies affecting
the international business community
firmly and fairly, but we can also dis-
charge that responsibility with a greater
sensitivity to the importance of exports
than has been the case in the past.
1. Export Consequences of Regula-
tions. I am directing the heads of all ex-
ecutive departments and agencies to take
into account and weigh as a factor the
possible adverse effects on our trade bal-
ance of their major administrative and
regulatory actions that have significant
export consequences. They will report
back on their progress in identifying and
reducing such negative export effects
where possible, consistent with other legal
and policy obligations. I will make a sim-
ilar request of the independent regulatory
agencies. In addition, the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers will consider export con-
sequences as part of the administration's
Regulatory Analysis Program.
There may be areas, such as the export
of products which
of products which pose serious health and
safety risks, where new regulations are
warranted. But through the steps outlined
above, I intend to inject a greater aware-
ness throughout the Government of the
effects on exports of administrative and
regulatory actions.
2. Export Controls for Foreign Policy
Purposes. I am directing the Departments
of Commerce, State, Defense, and Agri-
culture to take export consequences fully
into account when considering the use of
export controls for foreign policy pur-
poses. Weight will be given to whether
the goods in question are also available
from countries other than the United
States.
3. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. At
my direction, the Justice Department will
provide guidance to the business commu-
nity concerning its enforcement priorities
under the recently enacted foreign anti-
bribery statute. This statute should not be
viewed as an impediment to the conduct
of legitimate business activities abroad.
I am hopeful that American business will
not forgo legitimate export opportunities
because of uncertainty about the applica-
1633
