Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
very thankful that since I've been Presi-
dent, not a single American has shed
blood in any foreign conflict, and I hope
to keep that record until I go out of office.
We have become the champions of
human rights. We are not scorned and
despised as we formerly were. The United
States has become an object of admira-
tion. And we had some success, as you
know, at Camp David recently.
We are moving toward peace in the
Middle East. It's slow, it's tedious, it's not
sure. We still need your encouragement.
We still need your prayers.
Hartford, Connecticut
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for
Governor Ella Grasso. October 28, 1978
My good friend, Governor Ella Grasso;
Lieutenant Governor Killian; Senator
Abe Ribicoff, about whom I'd like to
speak in a few minutes; Congressmen
Cotter, Moffett, Dodd, and Giaimo-one
of the greatest and strongest congressional
State Democratic coalitions that I have
ever known, wonderful men-Bill Ratch-
ford, who will join them in January in the
Congress; former Governor John Demp-
We've had trouble in recent hours with sey; Chairman John Dempsey, Jr.; Bill
the Israeli settlements issue on the West
Bank. The Egyptians had decided to with-
draw their negotiators. I contacted Presi-
dent Sadat last night and said, "Leave
your negotiators in Washington." He sent
me word this morning, "I'll do what my
friend Jimmy Carter asked me." They're
going to stay there and negotiate.
But we've still got a lot of problems in
our country. But I'd like to ask you, in
closing, not to forget about the strength
of our country. Every day there are some
things about which you can complain, a
little aberration in the normal progress of
our great Nation. But God's really blessed
us. He's given us the strongest nation
on Earth, the most freedom that anybody
can have, a chance to use our talents as
we see fit, economic blessings of all kinds,
rich land, and great influence around the
world.
And if you will help me and keep a
Democratic team together that's strong
and forceful, depending on you for our
authority and our incumbency, we'll make
the greatest nation on Earth in the future
even greater.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m.
O'Neill, who's the next Lieutenant Gov-
ernor; Hank Parker, State treasurer; Ed
Caldwell, State comptroller; Carl Ajello,
attorney general; and Barbara Kennelly,
the next secretary of state:
As you know, Barbara Kennelly comes
from a great Democratic family. I be-
lieve if there's one thing that epitomizes
Connecticut politics, it is that the Demo-
crats comprise a family. I noticed when
Ella Grasso introduced me, she first men-
tioned my favorite joke writer, my
mother [laughter]-who thinks that Ella
Grasso is absolutely beautiful. And then
she mentioned my wife, Rosalynn, and
then she mentioned my son Chip, who
hasn't even come yet, and and last she
mentioned me, the President of the
United States. [Laughter]
But when you start talking about the
Baileys and I'm very grateful that Mrs.
John Bailey ยน is here as an honored
guest the Dodds, the Dempseys, you can
see that what the Democratic candidates
in Connecticut represent is kind of a solid
family structure. It provides cohesion and
strength. It provides a mechanism by
1 Wife of the former State and National
Democratic chairman.
1887
