Aug. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
creates inflation-and a very difficult is-
sue with which to deal.
And of course, inflation itself, I think,
is the most important single issue that
concerns me, my whole administration,
the people of this country and, I know,
the Congress as well.
These kinds of issues have been post-
poned too long. We've had inflation with
us for about 13 years, at roughly a 6
per-
cent average level. And it's crept up this
first half year because of high interest
rates and also high food prices. We hope
that the last half, it'll come down. But we
still have an underlying inflation rate
that's very tenacious, very difficult to re-
duce.
Our adverse trade balance is caused by
several factors, the most important of
which is the unnecessary waste of oil and
other energy in our country and the ex-
cessive imports of oil. We hope that the
Congress will act on this legislation which,
as you know, has been before them since
April of 1977. And I think that we have
made good progress. But I primarily
would like to point out to you not things
we've already achieved, but things we are
working on now.
In foreign affairs, of course, there are
a series of serious responsibilities that I
have as President; others before me have
had the same sorts of challenges. One of
the most tenacious is the Mideast. We
hope to make some progress there, but
we recognize the great difficulty involved.
We are going ahead with SALT negoti-
ations on an uninterrupted basis.
We've made good progress, I think, so
far in reasserting, or asserting really for
the first time, American influence in Af-
rica, particularly southern Africa. We
have a tenuous agreement involving Na-
mibia. United Nations representatives
have arrived there now. We have hopes
that this nation-formerly South West
Africa under German control many years
ago, now under South African control-
will be a new, independent democracy.
We still have a serious problem with
Rhodesia, trying to get the leaders of the
Patriotic Front and the Salisbury Group
together. We are adding our good offices
under trying circumstances, working
closely with the British there. In every in-
stance, though, we are working through
the United Nations with other nations,
not trying to impose our will unilaterally
on people, but letting majority rule pre-
vail and letting democracy, as best we can
forge it with our limited influence in some
instances, be realized.
I think in the general sense-and the
last thing I would like to comment—we've
tried to restore the image of our country
to one worthy of admiration.
I know that all of you remember just 2
years ago or 3 years ago or 5 years ago,
every time the United Nations General
Assembly met in New York, we were the
butt of all the attacks, the butt of all the
jokes, target of the vituperative speeches
made by the less developed countries—
small countries, black countries, new coun-
tries, weak countries. That's changed. I
think they have a new understanding of
our interest in them. And I think with our
human rights stance, there's been a re-
surgence of admiration for our country,
comprehension of the principles on which
our Nation was founded and on which it
exists.
Andy Young has done a superb job in
letting those people who have formerly
been excluded from consideration in many
decisions made in our country-we've let
them know that we care about them.
And I believe in many ways we've had
some success. At home a year ago, 15, 18
months ago, the overriding concern was
unemployment. The Congress did a su-
perb job last year in laying the basis for
economic stimulation and a reduction in
the unemployment rate. We've had a net
1410
