Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the leadership of President Ford. The re-
sults bear witness to the steady, deter-
mined, bipartisan effort of our own coun-
try to build a world in which peace will
be the goal and the responsibility of all
nations.
The normalization of relations between
the United States and China has no other
purpose than this: the advancement of
peace. It is in this spirit, at this season of
peace, that I take special pride in sharing
this good news with you tonight.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. The address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
Diplomatic Relations Between the
United States and the People's
Republic of China
United States Statement. December 15, 1978
As of January 1, 1979, the United
States of America recognizes the People's
Republic of China as the sole legal gov-
ernment of China. On the same date, the
People's Republic of China accords simi-
lar recognition to the United States of
America. The United States thereby es-
tablishes diplomatic relations with the
People's Republic of China.
On that same date, January 1, 1979,
the United States of America will notify
Taiwan that it is terminating diplomatic
relations and that the Mutual Defense
Treaty between the United States and the
Republic of China is being terminated in
accordance with the provisions of the
Treaty. The United States also states that
it will be withdrawing its remaining mili-
tary personnel from Taiwan within four
months.
In the future, the American people and
the people of Taiwan will maintain com-
mercial, cultural, and other relations
without official government representa-
tion and without diplomatic relations.
The Administration will seek adjust-
ments to our laws and regulations to
permit the maintenance of commercial,
cultural, and other non-governmental
relationships in the new circumstances
that will exist after normalization.
The United States is confident that the
people of Taiwan face a peaceful and
prosperous future. The United States con-
tinues to have an interest in the peaceful
resolution of the Taiwan issue and expects
that the Taiwan issue will be settled
peacefully by the Chinese themselves.
The United States believes that the es-
tablishment of diplomatic relations with
the People's Republic will contribute to
the welfare of the American people, to the
stability of Asia where the United States
has major security and economic interest,
and to the peace of the entire world.
Diplomatic Relations Between the
United States and the People's
Republic of China
Remarks at a White House Briefing Following
the Address to the Nation.
December 15, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wanted to come
by and let you know that I believe this to
be an extremely important moment in the
history of our Nation. It's something that
I and my two predecessors have sought
avidly. We have maintained our own
United States position firmly, and only
since the last few weeks has there been an
increasing demonstration to us that Pre-
mier Hua and Vice Premier Teng have
2266
