Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
It's not callous nor hardhearted for a
government to deliver food to a hungry
person without waste, with efficiency. It's
not callous nor hardhearted management
to give our children a better education
without waste, and efficiently.
For the first time in political history, a
recent Gallup Poll showed that twice as
many of the American people now believe
that Democrats are fiscally responsible as
believe that Republicans are fiscally re-
sponsible. The Republic has finally woken
up to know the truth about Democrats,
compared to Republicans, and I'm thank-
ful for that.
Well, let me say in closing that we're
getting control of our energy problems.
We're getting control of the bureaucracy.
We're bringing new efficiency to govern-
ment. We're taking control of foreign af-
fairs. Our Nation is strong again, proud
again, secure again in its place in the
world. And we've made a good start on
the most difficult task of all, solving our
economic problems in the areas of un-
employment, in budget deficits. Now it's
time to put all our efforts into solving the
most complicated and intractable and
corrosive problem of all, and that's in-
flation.
Inflation hurts every one of us, not just
the poor, not just the elderly. It saps away
our national strength and will and confi-
dence. Very soon I will announce a new
package of anti-inflation measures. They'll
be tough. They will require sacrifice from
business, from labor, from government,
from every family, every segment of our
society. They will be tough, but they'll be
fair.
I would like to caution all of you Dem-
ocrats—those in my administration, those
in the Congress-that we here in Wash-
ington must set an example. We cannot
pass legislation that's identifiably waste-
ful. If we do, it will sap away the strength
that we have to inspire the American
people to solve this very difficult problem
on their own.
The best birthday present I could get
from the Congress is to pass the air dereg-
ulation bill, to pass the hospital cost con-
tainment bill, to send me appropriations
bills and authorization bills that are solid
and firm and cut to the bone without any
waste. This is how the Congress can show
its determination to join the fight against
inflation.
If we fail here, it will be almost impos-
sible to succeed elsewhere. This is the
most pressing of the hundreds of large
and small restraints that are necessary to
win this battle. This is the future of our
Democratic Party, a future in which we
maintain our vision, even heighten our
vision, while governing with prudence
and responsibility that builds the confi-
dence of our people in us.
I'm proud of what we've achieved in
the last year and a half. I'm proud of the
groundwork we've laid for future achieve-
ment. But there's more to do if the United
States is to realize the full promise of our
people. We must succeed in giving the
women of America equal rights. And we
must succeed in honoring the greatest of
all Democrats, Hubert Humphrey, in
meeting the yearnings of the poor people
of our Nation by passing a full employ-
ment bill with his name on it, the Hum-
phrey-Hawkins bill.
It's obvious to me, I'm sure it's obvi-
ous to you, that we cannot rest on past
achievements. We cannot be complacent.
We have work to do as Democrats and
as Americans. Let's do this work for our
country together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:57 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to John
C. White, chairman, and Evan S. Dobelle,
treasurer, Democratic National Committee.
1650
