Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
for employers to discriminate on the basis
of sex.
Through enactment of these bills in the
appropriate form, we ensure continued
progress toward the goal of full equality
so that future generations of Americans-
male and female-have choices and op-
portunities not fully realized today.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 27, 1978.
NOTE: The report is entitled "The First 18
Months: A Status Report of the Carter Ad-
ministration Action on International Women's
Year Resolutions, 1978."
Natural Gas Legislation
Remarks on Senate Approval of the
Conference Committee Report.
September 27, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I just talked to Majority
Leader Byrd and Senator Jackson, the
Vice President, Jim Schlesinger, Frank
Moore-all of them very eager to let me
know that the Senate voted, I think over-
whelmingly, compared to what we had
expected, 57 to 42, in favor of the natural
gas conference report. And Senator Byrd
sent me word that they will work very
rapidly on the other two measures that
are now completed in the conference com-
mittee.
This is a remarkable demonstration of
leadership on the part of the men that I've
just named, one of the most difficult
pieces of legislation that the Congress has
ever faced in the history of our country.
It's brought together a wide diversity of
interests from around the country. I think
it proves to our own Nation and to the
rest of the world that we in this Govern-
ment, particularly Congress, can coura-
geously deal with an issue and one that
tests our national will and our ability.
We have difficult decisions still left for
the House to make. My expectation is
that the House will act as it did August—
was a year ago-to resolve the energy
question and to give us a comprehensive
and a valid energy policy.
I'm very grateful for the leadership that
has been shown by these men and by the
courageous action in the Senate this after-
noon.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Sir, can you get it through
the House if you veto the public works
bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe we'll get it
through the House.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:31 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Oval Office at the
White House.
Ethics in Government Legislation
Statement on House of Representatives Action
on the Legislation. September 27, 1978
I am very pleased to congratulate
Speaker Tip O'Neill and the Members
of the House of Representatives for their
adoption of the Ethics in Government Act
of 1978. This bill, which incorporates leg-
islation submitted by me to the Congress
in May of last year, will go far toward
fulfilling our commitments to return in-
tegrity and efficiency to the conduct of
government.
I wish also to thank Members George
Danielson, Richardson Preyer, and Pa-
tricia Schroeder for their capable and sen-
sitive leadership in winning approval of
the bill.
Enactment of this legislation will fol-
low through on commitments made dur-
ing my campaign for the Presidency to:
-direct the spotlight of public atten-
tion on potential conflict of interest by
1644
