Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rate of inflation while ordering a $4 bil-
lion, $5 billion cut of the projected gross
of social programs? And if so, where are
those cuts going to come from-Amtrak
subsidies or Federal pensions or farm pro-
grams or where?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've been work-
ing on the 1980 fiscal year budget for
months. I had my first hearings, prelimi-
nary hearings with the agency heads last
April or May, and now almost daily, I
meet with the Office of Management and
Budget on future decisions to be made in
the budget itself. I won't make final de-
cisions on the fiscal year '80 budget until
sometime next month, after meeting with
the heads of the different agencies and
departments of the Federal Government
to let them appeal, in effect, decisions that
the OMB, Office of Management and
Budget, and I have made together.
There's no way that I can cut down
the ability of our Nation to defend itself.
Our security obviously comes first. And we
have encouraged our NATO Allies in par-
ticular to increase their expenditures for
a joint defense of Europe, and therefore
us, by 3 percent a year above the infla-
tion rate. I intend to honor that commit-
ment. The final figures, though, on in-
dividual departments, and clearly the
Defense Department, have not yet been
decided.
I might point out I will meet my goal,
which I announced in the anti-inflation
speech a couple of weeks ago, of having a
budget deficit less than half what it was
when I was running for President. The
budget deficit will be below $30 billion.
It's going to be a very tight, very strin-
gent, very difficult budget to achieve, but
I will achieve it. And I'm sure Congress
will back me in this effort. I'm also con-
tinuing a freeze on hiring of Federal em-
ployees. I have limited this year, with the
Congress approval, the pay increases for
Federal employees-there is no increase
at all for executives in the Federal Gov-
ernment. And I'll do other things as well
to control inflation.
I consider it to be my top domestic
commitment, and I don't intend to fail.
MEAT IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, Jim Fitzpatrick,
Kansas City Times.
Do you intend to sign the meat import
bill, and if not, why not?
THE PRESIDENT. The bill has not got-
ten to my desk yet. And I expect to re-
ceive it tomorrow or Saturday. I'll make a
decision then.
I might point out that I'm strongly in
favor of the countercyclical approach to
beef imports, where on a predictable ba-
sis, when the supply of beef in this coun-
try is high, that imports would be lower,
and vice versa.
There are some factors that concern me
about the beef import bill. One is the-I
understand to be a severe limitation on
the President's right to make decisions in
case of emergency. But I'll have to assess
the bill in its entirety. If I should make a
decision against the legislation, however,
because of the feature that I just de-
scribed to you, then I would work with
the Congress to include early next year
a countercyclical approach. I think it's
a very good approach. And I'll just have
to make a decision before the end of this
week.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
REVENUE ACT OF 1978
Q. Mr. President, the tax bill that you
have signed contains cuts in capital gains
taxes, which is the opposite of what you
would have liked. It also contains cuts for
people in the middle-income level, who
are making between $10,000 to $15,000 a
year. That is not going to be enough to
1988
