Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 15
been ready to normalize relations. I think
the interests of Taiwan have been ade-
quately protected. One of the briefers will
explain the details to you.
Our Ambassador there, Leonard Wood-
cock, has done a superb job in presenting
our own views strongly and clearly to the
officials of the People's Republic of China.
I will be preparing myself adequately for
the visit of Vice Premier Teng. We in-
vited him on one day, he accepted the
next, without delay, and I think he's
looking forward to this trip with a great
deal of anticipation and pleasure.
Í have talked personally this evening to
Prime Minister Ohira [of Japan]. Early
this morning we notified the officials in
Taiwan, and we have also notified many
of the leaders around the world of this
long-awaited development in interna-
tional diplomacy.
I think that one of the greatest benefits
that will be derived from this is the con-
tinuation of strong trade, cultural rela-
tionships with Taiwan, the people of Tai-
wan, and a new vista for prosperous trade
relationships with almost a billion people
in the People's Republic of China. This
is also, of course, enhanced by the new
opportunities for us to understand the
people of China, and to work avidly for
peace in that region and for world peace.
This afternoon the Soviet Union offi-
cials were notified through their Am-
bassador here, Mr. Dobrynin. And I think
the Soviets were familiar with the fact
that we were anticipating normalization
whenever the Chinese were willing to
meet our reasonable terms, and they were
not surprised. As you well know, the So-
viet Union and People's Republic of
China have diplomatic relations between
themselves.
My own assessment is that this will be
well received in almost every nation of
the world, perhaps all of them, because
it will add to stability. And the Soviets
and others know full well, because of our
own private explanations to them, not
just recently but in months gone by, that
we have no desire whatsover to use our
new relationships with China to the disad-
vantage of the Soviets or anyone else. We
believe this will enhance stability and not
cause instability in Asia and the rest of
the world.
I'm very pleased with it. And I ob-
viously have to give a major part of the
credit to President Nixon and to Presi-
dent Ford, who laid the groundwork for
this successful negotiation. And most of
the premises that were spelled out in the
Shanghai Communique 6 years ago or
more have been implemented now.
You can tell that I'm pleased, and I
know that the world is waiting for your
accurate explanation of the results.
Q. How did the congressional leaders
take it?
THE PRESIDENT. With mixed response.
Some of the congressional leaders who
were there have long been very strong
personal friends of the officials in Taiwan.
They are not as thoroughly familiar with
the officials in the People's Republic of
China.
One of the most long debated issues
was whether or not we would peremp-
torily terminate our defense treaty with
Taiwan, or whether we would terminate
that treaty in accordance with its own
provisions. And the People's Republic
officials agreed with our position that we
would give Taiwan a 1-year notice and
that the defense treaty would prevail
throughout 1979. I think that alleviated
some of the concerns among the Senators.
And another concern expressed by them
was whether or not we could continue
cultural relationships, trade relationships
with the people of Taiwan. I assured
2267
