Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
helped to restore to our Nation and to its
Government a sense of purpose, of ideal-
ism, of commitment and honesty, that de-
serves the trust of the people of our
country.
We had lost that in my opinion, in re-
cent years, with Vietnam and Watergate
and CIA and so forth. And I would like
for people, when I go out of office, to say,
"I've got a clean government that's de-
cent and honest, that I can trust." If I
could accomplish that, or a major part of
that, on the domestic scene, I would be
very, very pleased.
On the international scene, of course,
the overwhelming question is peace; not
peace by military might imposed on other
people, but peace based on two things.
One is a strong national defense capabil-
ity, depending on weapons first of all,
hopefully never to be used. But the other
one is strength based on what our national
character is, treating other people fairly
and with respect, with a total commitment
to the enhancement of human rights
around the world and trying to lessen
the tensions that have been built up, for
instance, in southern Africa, between our-
selves and the Soviet Union, in
the Turkey-Greece-Cyprus question, to
strengthen the Eastern-Western European
confrontation, in the Middle East, to re-
store our good, friendly relationships with
countries that in the past have been our
enemies. These are the kinds of things
that I would like to do in the international
scene.
So, I would say peace based on strength
in its broadest sense, on the international
scene, and a restoration of people's trust
and love of our own government and
country, on the domestic scene.
ETHICS IN GOVERNMENT
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name's Donald Martin from Center
Township.
In light of your opening remarks about
corruption in the Federal Government,
you know that Pennsylvania is running
first or second there. [Laughter] And I
would like to know what you feel that
the average citizen can do to help to
bring corruption to light and at the same
time to protect our livelihood.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, I
think it's good for private citizens who
work in either local industries or in the
government to be constantly alert to any
sort of suspicious occurrences that they
observe.
Secondly, I think you could elect offi-
cials who in their own past administra-
tions have shown that they are capable
of avoiding any allegations of corruption.
Pete Flaherty would be an example that
comes to my mind right offhand.
Third, you could help with some very
controversial things in the Congress. I
ran for President under a new election
law that put a limit of $1,000 on contri-
butions that could come to me from any-
where. And every contribution had to be
revealed completely to the public. It cost
us an enormous amount of time and
money just to account for all those con-
tributions. We need the same thing in the
Congress, because you cannot imagine the
extraordinary influence of special lobby-
ing groups on Capitol Hill.
I mentioned hospital cost containment
a few minutes ago. That's one example.
But I think if we can ever get to the point
where a Member of Congress was elected
to office without any possibility of being
financially indebted to the very wealthy
and very well organized lobbying groups,
that would be the best single thing that
we could accomplish.
There's a lot of opposition to that on
Capitol Hill. But I want to get that done.
There's a lot of concern about it.
I was a little bit upset the other day
when Amy came home and said they'd
1615
