Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument upon acquisition of title there-
to by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
tion, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any public land order effecting a
withdrawal under Section 17 (d) (1) of
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
(43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1)); however, the
national monument shall be the dominant
reservation. Nothing in this Proclamation
is intended to modify or revoke the terms
of the Memorandum of Understanding
dated September 1, 1972, entered into
between the State of Alaska and the
United States as part of the negotiated
settlement of Alaska v. Morton, Civil No.
A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint filed
Complaint filed
April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall pro-
mulgate such regulations as are appropri-
ate, including regulation of sport hunting,
and of the opportunity to engage in a sub-
sistence lifestyle by local residents. The
Secretary may close this national monu-
ment, or any portion thereof, to subsist-
ence uses of a particular fish, wildlife or
plant population or to sport hunting of a
particular fish or wildlife population if
necessary for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or to ensure the natural sta-
bility or continued viability of such popu-
lation.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:55 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Becharof National Monument are printed
in the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 5, 1978.
Bering Land Bridge
National Monument
Proclamation 4614. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Bering Land Bridge, now overlain
by the Chukchi Sea, the Bering Sea and
Bering Strait, was the migration route by
which many plants, animals, and humans
arrived on the North American continent.
The monument hereby created has within
it an invaluable record of this migration.
There are found here rich archeological
sites giving evidence of human migration
during the periods the Bridge was water-
free. Also found are paleontological sites
2117
