July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of domestic supplies of gas and oil to the
prevailing world market price.
I think the Congress has made great
progress already. What many people in
Europe don't understand is our Nation
is not only a great oil consumer, but we
are a great oil-producing Nation and
have habitually, historically been so. So,
it's a very difficult political issue to change
the structure of our laws to hold down
the free import for oil and to implement
strict conservation measures. But I've
been pleased with what the Congress has
done so far.
Through
administrative action,
through working closely with the Con-
gress after this year, after they pass the
first series of bills, we hope to continue
this progress and, in the process, to in-
crease production in our own country to
cut down the demand for imports.
I might say that so far this year the
rate of oil imports has dropped also, the
first 5 months of 1978. Our increase in
imports has come in manufactured goods.
And one of the things that we want our
trade partners to do in Europe is to in-
crease their economic growth so that they
can provide a market for our products
that we want to sell. And we in the past
have had a much higher rate of growth
than have our trading partners who will
be at the summit conference.
I think with the reduction in our own
rate of growth to a more moderate level,
and the increased growth in some of our
trading partners' countries, that this ad-
verse trade balance can be alleviated.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
HIROSHI NARITA [NHK, Japan]. Mr.
President, I would like to ask a question
on the dollar. In the light of the U.S.
dollar's decline in these days, it is re-
ported that at the summit meeting some
other heads of government will ask the
United States to stabilize and strengthen
the U.S. dollars. Are you going to show
them any tactical plan to protect U.S.
dollars at the summit meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. The relationship be-
tween the dollar and the yen has been
affected primarily by the adverse trade
balance that we have with Japan. At the
last summit meeting in London, for in-
stance, we discussed the very high posi-
tive trade balance that Japan enjoyed
then. The goal established by your own
leaders was that this trade balance would
be reduced. Instead, it's continued to go
up.
I think, as the economic market leaders
have recognized, the high export of
Japanese goods and the relatively low im-
ports into Japan of other goods, the yen
has strengthened in comparison to other
currencies, including, of course, the
American dollar.
We don't anticipate intervening in the
monetary markets to artifically change
those basic relationships between the
dollar, the yen, the deutsche mark and
other currencies. But unwarranted aber-
rations of a transient nature we try to
iron out, either by purchasing other cur-
rencies or by selling the dollar on occasion,
and we cooperate with other nations as
well. But the long-range trends, I think,
have to be established primarily by over-
all market conditions, primarily trade
balances. Temporary aberrations we do
try to minimize.
U.S. TRADE BALANCE
MR. NARITA. Are you going to meet
Prime Minister Fukuda at Bonn to reduce
Japanese trade surplus?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. One of the things
that we would like to see done is for both
Japan and Germany to stimulate their
own economies so that the growth might
be higher and so that they might be better
1254
