Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
surprises of my owr. Presidency has been
the high level of honesty and competence
and detailed knowledge by Members of
the Congress and their staffs. When they
get any degree of seniority, they have fo-
cused on a particular issue in subcommit-
tee work, and I've been very favorably
impressed with the quality of the Con-
gress.
I think the results of the 95th Congress
corroborate what I've just said. They've
made some difficult decisions, and quite
often they've done this courageously.
So, although the lobbying effort also
exceeds my expectations, unfortunately,
I think that those efforts can be met by
some factors, certainly the two that I've
just described to you.
ARMS EMBARGO AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, despite the interna-
tional arms embargo, South Africa is re-
ported to have received, and may still
be receiving, weapons shipments through
a complex scheme involving the Spanish
Government-or allegedly involving the
Spanish Government, the British Govern-
ment, and the Island of Antigua. I'd like
to know, sir, if you know whether these
allegations are true, and if so, what de-
gree of international cooperation it may
have had, and what, if anything, you
will
do about the Pentagon's apparent failure
to police its contractors.
THE PRESIDENT. I've never heard this
before. If it should be true, it would be
in direct violation of the pledged word of
honor of the nations involved, certainly
including all those who voted for the arms
embargo against South Africa through
the United Nations. But I've never heard
of that allegation. If it should prove true,
and if the Pentagon has any role to play
in it, directly or indirectly, I would use
my full influence to comply with the U.N.
resolution.
Q. Would you support an investigation
to determine the accuracy of this allega-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, of course I
would.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Sir, could I return to this question,
for a moment, of the domestic economy?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Without questioning for a moment
problem, are you absolutely convinced
your resolve to get on top of the inflation
in your mind that these very high inter-
est rates which are coming along are a
good way to do it? I say that, because
some businessmen view high interest rates
as costs. They do, of course, add to the
deficit-
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
Q.and they seem to run against
the grain of your own political thinking,
as far as I can tell.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I prefer low
interest rates. You know, it would be
much better for our economy to have
lower interest rates. But I think the best
way for me to address that hope success-
fully is to get inflation under control.
The Federal Reserve is properly inde-
pendent. There's a good combination, I
think, of responsibility between myself,
the Federal Reserve, and the Congress. I
have basic input in the level of budget re-
quests, the size of the budget deficit, the
allocation of funds in different ways that
the Federal Government allots directly or
through local and State governments.
And, of course, I have veto power over
tax legislation and the right to propose
tax legislation. The Congress, on the
other hand, can modify my budget. They
can propose and do propose, as you know,
tax policy. And the Federal Reserve is
primarily concerned with the level of
money available in the economy at a par-
ticular time.
2047
