Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
but we've laid a groundwork or basis for
even more progress in the future.
In international affairs, I'm very
pleased with what we have done. We have
not been afraid to become involved in
highly controversial, sometimes hopeless,
apparently hopeless efforts to bring peace
to others throughout the world. We didn't
have to attempt to bring majority rule
and democratic government to Namibia
and Rhodesia. This has been an intran-
sigent problem for years, even genera-
tions. But we've been willing to put my
own reputation on the line to risk dis-
appointments and defeats, castigations
from all sides, to join in with our Western
Allies and try to bring those goals into
fruition.
Andy Young in the United Nations has
raised a new image of our country to more
than a hundred newly formed or small or
weak or black or yellow or brown nations.
Whereas formerly we were considered to
be their prime opponent, we were the tar-
get of their attacks, now they look upon
us as an ally, as a representative of the
finer and decent aspects of life. This is an
accomplishment in itself.
And peace generally pervades in south-
ern Africa, even though the threat of
violence still exists. We are making some
progress in Cyprus. We've got remark-
ably good progress in Nicaragua. And
instead of violence and thousands of
people losing their lives in Nicaragua, we
joined in, as you know, with the Domini-
can Republic and Guatemala in what
seemed to be an absolutely hopeless case.
And now last night the FAO, repre-
senting the Sandinistas, and the Somoza
government has decided to sit down and
begin negotiating today, not on how to
stop massive bloodshed, but on the terms
of a plebiscite to determine the govern-
ment of Nicaragua in the future. We can't
say that we've reached complete success,
but we were willing to get in and use the
tremendous influence of the United States
in a beneficial way.
I won't repeat what I said last night
about the Middle East. Cy Vance is arriv-
ing in Egypt today. He'll be negotiating
with President Sadat. He'll go from there
to Israel. We hope and pray we'll be
successful. We don't have control over
that, obviously, because those are two in-
dependent and proud nations. But we've
used our influence in a beneficial way, and
sometimes, as you know, I've been severely
criticized by Americans who felt that I
was going too far, not going far enough,
or taking a biased position. But I think
it's accurate to say that both those
that both those govern-
ments trust us to do our best.
We're trying to reach agreement with
the Soviet Union on a SALT II treaty,
and we're making good progress. My an-
ticipation is that we will have, soon, a suc-
cess. This obviously can't be guaranteed,
because we don't ever know what the
Soviet Government will do. But the dif-
ferences that still divide us are very tiny
compared to the differences that we've
already resolved. But we've not been
afraid to stand firm. I have never let a
time deadline put me in a vulnerable posi-
tion. We've not been hasty. And I can
assure you that when the SALT agree-
ment is presented to the American people,
that it will meet the standards that we set
forth.
I think we've strengthened alliances
that were damaged severely, and we've
raised high the banner of human rights.
These are the kinds of things that we
have done so far that bring me gratifica-
tion. But the main thing is the future.
And that's where I would like to thank
you for what you've done to keep the
Democratic Party viable, to keep the
Democratic Party together, and to keep
the Democratic Party in the forefront of
the domestic and foreign commitments
that exemplify the greatness of our Na-
2197
