Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 5
another "study" project's water supply
"benefits" are to serve one catfish farm
and several "potential" catfish farms.
One project funded for construction,
whose major benefit category is flatwa-
ter recreation, would be the sixth Corps
of Engineers reservoir in a 50-mile ra-
dius. American taxpayers simply should
not be forced to fund projects which pro-
vide such questionable public benefits.
-The bill commits the Federal gov-
ernment to excessive new water project
construction starts. I requested funds for
26 new water project construction starts
costing a total of $640 million, including
an allowance for inflation. This is the
first time a President has recommended
new starts in four years. This request was
well-considered and reflects my commit-
ment to a strong continued program of
water resource development. I believe
these initiatives are of high priority in
meeting agricultural, flood damage re-
duction, economic development, environ-
mental and other needs. However, the
bill goes far beyond this large request. It
includes initial funding for an additional
27 projects which, allowing for inflation
would add $1.2 billion in total costs. In
addition to unacceptable long-term
budgetary impact, many of these projects
lack required planning or engineering in-
formation, present unresolved economic
or environmental problems, fail to meet
legal requirements or meet low-priority
needs.
There are competing uses for every
Federal dollar and difficult choices must
be faced. Every program in government,
no matter how vital, must focus first on
matters of highest priority. The President
and the Congress must join in this diffi-
cult effort. Particularly with taxes and
inflation a major concern of every Amer-
ican, I cannot support undertaking ex-
penditures such as a $412 million project
where planning is incomplete, or a $117
million project which, without adequate
consideration of the concerns of local
farmers or of the availability of less dam-
aging alternatives, would take large
amounts of valuable farm, pasture and
forest land out of production and displace
140 people. Other projects funded in ex-
cess of my recommendations post similar
serious problems.
-I would be forced to enlarge the Fed-
eral bureaucracy substantially and un-
necessarily. This bill would mandate the
hiring of more than 2,300 additional Fed-
eral employees in the Corps of Engineers
and the Bureau of Reclamation-far ex-
ceeding actual need. This requirement is
inconsistent with efficient program man-
agement and would cause growth in this
segment of the Federal work force that
would be difficult to reverse.
-The true costs of the bill far exceed
the amounts appropriated. I believe that
funds to meet the full cost of all new water
projects should be appropriated when the
decision to go forward is made so that the
true cost to the taxpayer is known and
considered. Appropriating the full amount
also helps ensure that, once a project is
begun, funds are available to permit
speedy, efficient completion. This bill con-
tinues the practice of committing the gov-
ernment to major financial investments
for what appears on the surface to be very
small appropriations. Thus, in making a
relatively small appropriation of $103.6
million for new water project construc-
tion, H.R. 12928 is actually committing
the government to total expenditures of
$1.8 billion. At the same time, adding new
starts each year without taking their full
costs into account greatly increases the
risk that budget pressures in the future will
cause costly delays.
-By eliminating funding for the Water
Resources Council, the bill would seri-
ously impair efforts to better coordinate
water resources programs. The Water
1709
