Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
nominated on October 4, 1978, but were
not confirmed before the Senate ad-
journed. The ninth person has not been
previously announced.
The new appointee is Kay Howe, of
Boulder, Colo. Howe, 40, is chairperson
of the program in comparative literature
at the University of Colorado and teaches
He has been on the Board of the Penn-
sylvania Avenue Development Corpora-
tion since its establishment in 1973. He
has also participated in designing various
Washington landmarks.
in the humanities division of the inte- Anti-Inflation Program
grated studies program.
The eight appointees who were an-
nounced on October 4 are Charles V.
Hamilton, Louis J. Hector, M. Carl Hol-
man, Jacob Neusner, Mary Beth Norton,
Sister Joel Read, Leon Stein, and Harriet
M. Zimmerman.
Pennsylvania Avenue
Development Corporation
Appointment of Two Members of the Board
of Directors. November 16, 1978
The President today announced the re-
appointment of two members of the
Remarks at a White House Briefing for
Civic Leaders. November 16, 1978
Alfred Kahn and I lately go from one
meeting to another, each one better than
the one before. And I'm very grateful
that you all would come here, literally
from all over our country, to meet with
me and others in reconfirming our com-
mitment to a common and very important
goal.
Other than maintaining the security of
our Nation, I don't anticipate having any
greater responsibility next year and in the
months preceding that than to control in-
flation in our country. And I think in
many ways, our success in this effort will
Board of Directors of the Pennsylvania directly affect the security of our country.
Avenue Development Corporation. They
are:
Joseph B. Danzansky, who is also being
designated Chairman of the Corporation.
Danzansky, 64, is president of Giant Food
Inc. He is active in community affairs in
Washington and has served as chairman
of the Mayor's Economic Development
Committee of the District of Columbia
and as president of the Metropolitan
Washington Board of Trade.
Nathaniel Owings, who is also being
designated Vice Chairman of the Corpo-
ration. Owings, 75, is an architect and
city planner. He has been involved with
planning for Pennsylvania Avenue since
President Kennedy appointed him as
Chairman of the President's Advisory
Council on Pennsylvania Avenue in 1962.
We have taken some first steps in some
areas, some bold steps in other areas,
made some commitments which I intend
influence, some where I need many part-
to keep-some of those under my direct
ners to guarantee success. This effort is
not going to be easy. It has eluded success
for many years under all kinds of political
leadership, under many different philos-
ophies expressed in economics. And I'm
determined not to fail, with your help.
We've had now too high an inflation
rate for the last 10 years or more. In the
last part of 1977 we had remarkable suc-
cess, which is possibly a statistical aber-
ration or because of a confluence of
beneficial factors that came during that 6-
month period. But the general thrust, the
general tenor of our economic system has
been with too high a rate of inflation.
2050
