Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
Camp David Agreements
on the Middle East
Letter to Prime Minister Menahem Begin
of Israel on the Knesset's Vote on the
Agreements. September 27, 1978
Dear Mr. Prime Minister:
I have just learned of the Knesset's
favorable vote on the Camp David agree-
ments and I want to extend my warmest
personal congratulations to you. This ac-
tion by the representatives of the Israeli
people takes us another step toward the
goal we seek of a peaceful Middle East.
I deeply admire the courage and skill
with which you presented the agreements
we reached at Camp David. You know
that I understand the difficult choices
that face you and your colleagues if peace
is to become a reality. Your firm leader-
ship on these vital issues has provided a
new and impressive demonstration of
statesmanship.
With best wishes.
Sincerely,
your
JIMMY CARTER
[His Excellency Menachem Begin, Prime Min-
ister of Israel]
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
September 28.
have come a long way toward providing
access to schools for all our people, and
we provide enormous resources for educa-
tion. We can be proud of that progress, as
we are proud of the progress of
many of
our students, both youngsters and adults.
But we must also recognize that many
young Americans still emerge from our
schools inadequately prepared to take up
the responsibilities of adult life. Others
have not been sufficiently challenged to
develop their full potential.
Teaching has never been easy, and in-
spiring students is more difficult still. Per-
haps it is even harder today than in the
past, but it is no less crucial to the well-
being of our people and of our society.
The theme of this year's American Edu-
cation Week, "Education Can Turn
Things Around," expresses our faith in
the power of education. We expect our
teachers to provide the skills, knowledge
and background for understanding that
will allow all Americans to make the best
use of their God-given abilities. If they are
to succeed, we must support these goals
for human achievement in all aspects of
our society. We can do this by placing our
priorities and our emphasis on the last-
ing instead of the trivial, by rewarding
quality and accomplishment, by respect-
ing true knowledge, by raising important
questions and seeking honest answers, by
American Education Week, 1978 valuing and nurturing the capabilities of
Proclamation 4603. September 28, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Our founders assumed that an educated
electorate was essential to a strong, healthy
democracy. Freedom of speech, thought
and inquiry are part of the basic structure
of our society, and we share a fundamen-
tal belief that education can provide the
key to overcoming all our problems. We
every human being.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
November 12, 1978, as American Edu-
cation Week.
It is appropriate that we honor what is
right and good in education in America
today-the dedicated, searching teach-
ers who demand much of themselves and
their students, who push beyond failure
and discouragement to light the spark of
understanding. It is appropriate, also,
1651
