Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
people wanted to go, and there could only
be a tiny group. But I looked around the
leadership of Congress to try to pick peo-
ple that I thought were representative of
the great Italian Americans and the great
Polish Americans of our country. And it
didn't take me long to decide that John
LaFalce and Henry Nowak ought to be
the ones to represent me.
As you know, in the selection of a Pope,
when a Pole won, you couldn't also have
an Italian at the same time. But you are
lucky here in the Niagara frontier to have
a good Pole and a good Italian American
to serve you in Congress. That makes a
great combination that can't be beat. And
I might say with Pat and Hugh, you've
also got some winning Irishmen to make
out a ticket very well. [Laughter]
I don't believe that any new Senator
has ever arrived in Washington and made
a greater, more beneficial impact for his
people back home than Pat Moynihan
has done. As you know, he is eloquent. He
is courageous. He is dynamic. And when
he speaks, people listen. He has analyzed,
in the most definitive way, how Federal
laws ought to be changed to make the
allocation of your tax money back to you
more fair. He's been to see me many times
about this. And when he speaks, the
southern Members of Congress, those
from the Sun Belt, say, "Well, I think it's
fair to give more public works money,
more transportation money, more welfare
money, more education money, more
highway money to those areas like Buffalo,
like New York, which have in the past
been deprived."
I have a great admiration for Pat Moy-
nihan. He's a sound man, a good man, an
inspirational man. And not only is he
superb in domestic affairs, but he has that
rare combination of being very knowl-
edgeable in international affairs as well.
And I hope you'll keep him in the Senate
as long as he wants to stay, because he
makes a good partner for us to serve you
better.
Pat, I want to express my thanks to
you.
Just a word about my own administra-
tion. And I can be much briefer about
this. [Laughter]
When I came into the White House
about 21 months ago, we had 10 million
Americans who couldn't find a full-time
job. Seven million had no jobs at all.
We've cut the unemployment rate al-
ready 25 percent. We've added 6½ mil-
lion net new jobs. We've cut the unem-
ployment rate, the unemployment num-
bers, 1½ million.
We've given better services to our peo-
ple, stronger defense, better highways,
better education. We've tried to give what
people need, because I spent 2 years
learning what our Nation hungered for.
At the same time, we've cut taxes. Last
year we cut your income taxes $8 billion.
And with Pat's help this year, we've
evolved a tax bill that will cut your in-
come taxes about $20 billion more.
It's not been easy. It's not been easy to
give better services, a stronger defense, re-
vise our programs to benefit you and cut
taxes at the same time.
There's one other thing that bothers
me, though, and that's the Federal deficit.
When I was running for President in 1976,
the Federal Government deficit was more
than $66 billion. We've already cut it
down over $25 billion. And by the end of
next year, we will have cut the Federal
budget deficit more than half.
We are working on it some more. And
my goal is still to balance the Federal
budget. If you'll help me, I believe we'll
be able to do it.
We've reorganized the Government.
This week I signed an ethics bill, passed
by the Congress, that requires all major
1885
