Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 4
I was disappointed with the outcome,
but we'll work as well as we can with the
new Senators and the new Governor on a
bipartisan basis, particularly in matters
that concern defense, national affairs.
And I look forward to getting to know
them better. And once the election's over,
as far as I'm concerned, I represent all
the people, Democrats and Republicans.
Just disappointed, don't know anything
else we could have done. We'll work with
the ones that the Minnesota people
elected.
I don't have much time, and I would
like very much, if you don't have any ob-
jection, to get a photograph with each one
of you individually. I might add that I
don't have time to answer additional
questions as you come by. So, let's just
have a handshake, and you can introduce
yourself, and we'll send you the photo-
graph.
I've enjoyed it. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 10 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on December 2.
Hathaway, 53, was director of the In-
ternational Food Policy Research Insti-
tute before his appointment as Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture in March 1977.
He has also served as a program adviser
in agriculture for the Ford Foundation's
Asia and Pacific Program.
United Nations Economic and
Social Council
Appointment of William J. Stibravy as U.S.
Deputy Representative. December 4, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of William J. Stibravy, of New-
ark, N.J., as Deputy Representative of the
United States on the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations.
Stibravy, 62, is currently Minister-
Counselor for Economic and Social Af-
fairs at the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations. He is a former director of the
Office of International Economic and So-
cial Affairs at the State Department.
Department of Agriculture
Nomination of Dale E. Hathaway To Be Under
Secretary for International Affairs and
Commodity Programs. December 4, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Dale E. Hathaway to be
Under Secretary of Agriculture for In-
ternational Affairs and Commodity Pro-
grams, a new position.
Hathaway is currently an Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture, with primary re-
sponsibility for international affairs and
commodity programs.
William A. Steiger
Statement on the Death of the Representative
From Wisconsin. December 4, 1978
The death this morning of Congress-
man William Steiger deprives the Con-
gress of a youthful but experienced leader.
Congressman Steiger, the youngest
Member of Congress when he was elected
in 1966, quickly earned the respect of his
colleagues. His energy, independence, and
good humor will be sorely missed by the
people of Wisconsin and by his colleagues.
Rosalynn and I extend our deepest
sympathies to Congressman Steiger's wife
and family on their loss.
2157
