Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 17
I
flection on General Walker at all. There
is no other four-star position in the en-
tire Armed Forces, and he was offered a
three-star position. He decided that in
place of going back to a three-star posi-
tion, which he had just recently occupied,
that he would prefer to resign. And he is
a good man also. There's no reflection on
him; there's never been any reflection on
him.
I've looked into both these cases myself.
I'm familiar with both of them, and I
can tell you that there's no reflection on
either man. And they were given jobs, of-
fered jobs compatible with their rank.
General Walker performed superbly in
Turkey, and I regret that he did not stay
in the Army as a four-star general.
MR. GERSTENZANG. Thank you, Mr.
President.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-sixth news con-
ference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on television and radio.
Veto of the Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization
Bill
Message to the House of Representatives
Returning H.R. 10929 Without Approval.
August 17, 1978
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval
H.R. 10929, the "Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization Act, 1979."
I am doing so because I cannot, consist-
ently with my constitutional responsibili-
ties, sign into law a bill that in my view
would weaken our national security in
certain critical areas and wastes scarce
defense dollars. The Congress' inclusion
in this bill of a number of lower priority
programs would force out of our defense
budget certain central elements of our
program, items needed now to modernize
and bolster our military forces.
I believe that the defense of the United
States needs to be strengthened. An ade-
quate defense is the single most important
concern I have as President. Accordingly,
I submitted to the Congress in January
of this year a budget request for the De-
partment of Defense which would if
enacted provide the defense we need. It
requested $126.0 billion for the Depart-
ment of Defense for Fiscal Year 1979.
That amount was judged by me and by
the Secretary of Defense to be adequate
to provide for the military security of this
country in Fiscal Year 1979, provided it
was wisely spent.
The bill I am returning does not spend
wisely. Instead, it actually would lead to
less defense capability than I have re-
quested. It does this by eliminating funds
for high priority defense requirements
and adding funds for purposes which do
not meet our defense needs. Most notably,
it would take nearly $2 billion from the
total and set it aside for purchase of a
nuclear-powered aircraft carrier—a ship
which in the end would cost at least
$2.4 billion, plus additional billions for
its aircraft and the additional ships
needed to defend and escort it.
We need more immediate improve-
ments in our defense forces. A new nu-
clear-powered aircraft carrier would not
be commissioned until 1987.
To spend $2 billion in defense dollars
in that way would ignore much more
serious and immediate defense needs.
Other programs have been cut, during
the appropriation process as well, to stay
within Congressional budget limits. The
effect would thus be to take away funds
urgently needed by the Army, Navy, Air
Force and Marine Corps for high priority
programs and to use those funds to
build the most expensive ship in history.
1447
