Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
Asheville, North Carolina
Remarks at a Reception for John Ingram.
September 22, 1978
Senator Morgan and Governor Jim Hunt,
Congressman Lamar Gudger, Wallace
Hyde, who, along with the others, helped
make it possible for me to be elected, and
your next Senator, John Ingram:
I don't have any particular remarks
prepared tonight. But as I was sitting here
on the stage, some thoughts went through
my mind that I think are, perhaps, similar
to those that went through yours.
As I listened to John Ingram talk, he
obviously is a man who is quiet and sin-
cere. He may not be as sophisticated as
some of you, and neither am I, but there's
a genuineness about him that appeals to
me. I believe he means what he says. And
I know when I first began to run for
President, not many people thought I had
a chance. A few of you thought so, and
you helped me. And a few months ago
when John Ingram decided to run for the
U.S. Senate, many of you, even the strong-
est, most loyal, most knowledgeable
Democrats, didn't think he had a chance.
And when you got ready to give a cam-
paign contribution, the chances are that
you probably gave it to another fine man,
Luther Hodges, or maybe some of the
other candidates, Mr. Davis, or others.
But there was something in John In-
gram that the people liked and trusted. It's
hard to say exactly what it is, because you
can't analyze the inner character of a
man. But I believe a lot of women thought
back about how he treated them in estab-
lishing insurance rates.
We hear a lot about the rights of
women and treating them fairly and de-
cently and giving them a chance for a job
and equal pay, taking care of widows.
But not many insurance commissioners
around the country have been sure that
insurance rates were fair to women.
A lot of young people, young men just
as good as you and I, just as good as the
young ladies, have long been stigmatized
and condemned and made to pay higher
insurance rates because a few are careless
and reckless. And it's an easy thing to
overlook something like that and say,
"Well, all of them are not to be trusted."
But in a strange way, because I think he's
close to people, John Ingram said, "Well,
young people can be trusted." And the
insurance rates for young men and women
in North Carolina are just about the low-
est in the whole country because he had
confidence in them.
I noticed when he introduced his wife,
he was really proud of her. And I could
tell that he really meant it when he called
his three daughters up here and his son,
and said, "These are the people that make
me strong." Some might think, well, that's
kind of a corny thing to do. Well, if so, I'm
corny, too, because that's the way I feel
about my family.
You don't have to be a college professor,
you don't have to be a distinguished law-
yer, you don't have to be someone who's
rich to understand what people need in
Washington, in the White House or in the
Congress, or in the State legislature or the
Governor's mansion. What you need is
someone who's close to the people and
who, although he might be 40, 50, 60 years
old, still understands what it means to be
young and what it means to be young in
spirit and the special problems of those
who need help.
I'm a Democrat by inheritance and by
conviction and by experience. And I see
some things that are special in my own
party that make me proud. I think John
Ingram, Lamar Gudger, represent those
kinds of things; Bob Morgan represents
1579
