Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Urban Park and Recreation Recovery
program, which will provide $725 million
of assistance to urban areas for use in aug-
menting their urban recreation programs.
The passage of this legislation is a great
achievement.
However, I must note my reservations
regarding the constitutionality of one of
the bill's provisions, Sec. 1301, which
would require the Secretary of Agricul-
ture to seek the permission of Congress to
exercise his existing power to exchange
certain Federal lands in the State of Mon-
tana for certain private lands in that State
where an exchange involves more than
6,400 acres. It is my view, and that of
the Department of Justice, that the execu-
tion of laws such as those empowering the
Secretary of Agriculture to exchange Fed-
eral land for non-Federal land may not be
invalidated or otherwise controlled by
Congress except by legislation subject to
the President's veto power under Art. I,
Sec. 7 of the Constitution. For this reason,
I have directed the Secretary of Agricul-
ture to report to the Congress, pursuant
to the reporting requirement of Sec. 1301,
the details of land-for-land exchanges cov-
ered by Sec. 1301 and to listen to any
concerns which may be expressed by the
specified congressional committees. At the
same time, I have instructed the Secre-
tary that he may consummate any land-
for-land exchanges covered by Sec. 1301
which are, in his opinion, otherwise au-
thorized by statute, irrespective of the
acreage involved.
A great number of people contributed
to the
passage of this legislation. I would
like to give special recognition to the ef-
forts of Representative Phil Burton and
Senator James Abourezk. Without their
exceptional leadership this legislation
would not be before me today. I am proud
that this administration has taken an ac-
tive part in the passage of this legislation.
I look forward to working with the Con-
gress to assure its swift implementation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 791 is Public Law 95-
625, approved November 10.
Child Nutrition
Amendments of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 3085 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
I am signing into law S. 3085, the
Child Nutrition Amendments of 1978.
This legislation funds school food pro-
grams, the child care food program, and
substantially expands the Special Supple-
mental Food Program for Women, In-
fants, and Children (WIC).
The amendments contain administra-
tion proposals to increase management
efficiency and to establish national in-
come standards to assure that only those
persons in need receive program benefits.
Other administration proposals in the
amendments will reduce our expenditures
for school feeding programs, simplify
recordkeeping for the school breakfast
program, and extend the child care food
program, which provides nutritious meals
to children in day care centers.
There are significant problems with
this legislation which can be corrected by
the next Congress. The spending levels
for fiscal year 1980 and thereafter are
higher than the substantial WIC in-
creases that I recommended to the Con-
gress. These increases and the failure of
Congress to adopt administration propos-
als to achieve savings by more carefully
targeting benefits to those most in need
make it more difficult to reduce the
budget deficit and cut spending. Further-
more, an entitlement feature for WIC in
fiscal 1980 limits my ability, and that of
Congress, to control costs through annual
appropriations.
2000
