Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 20
I call upon the Governors, Mayors, and
all other State and local officials to
broaden the observance of Thanksgiving
to include the practice of Thankful Giv-
ing in their celebration, inviting Ameri-
cans to share with those abroad who suffer
from hunger.
I call upon the American people to
make personal donations to religious or
secular charities to combat chronic hunger
and malnutrition, and to support the con-
cept of Thankful Giving in order that we
may one day assure that no individual any-
where will suffer from hunger, and that
we may move to a day of universal cele-
bration in a more perfect community with-
in our nation and around the world.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
October, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:30 a.m., October 23, 1978]
Appointments of Additional
District and Circuit Judges
Statement on Signing H.R. 7843 Into Law.
October 20, 1978
The omnibus judgeship act, which I
am signing today, creates an unprece-
dented number of new positions in the
Federal judiciary-35 new judgeships on
the courts of appeals and 117 on the dis-
trict courts, increasing the size of the Fed-
eral bench by over one-quarter. These
new judges will help us catch up on court
backlogs and provide prompt, efficient ad-
ministration of justice in this country.
Judicial decisions affect every Ameri-
can. It is imperative to select our top legal
minds for these openings. At the appellate
level, the 13 panels of the Circuit Judge
Nominating Commission, which I estab-
lished by Executive order, will screen
candidates to ensure that only the most
qualified individuals are considered. Simi-
lar commissions have been established in
18 States to consider candidates for dis-
trict judgeships.
I will sign another Executive order
which will set standards and guidelines
for the selection of district court judges.
This order will encourage the creation
of nominating commissions in States
where they do not now exist, and it will
set minimum standards for judicial selec-
tion in all States-even those that do not
yet have commissions.
This act provides a unique opportunity
to begin to redress another disturbing fea-
ture of the Federal judiciary: the almost
complete absence of women or members
of minority groups. Of 525 active judges,
only 29 are black or Hispanic, and only
9 are women-and almost half of these
have been appointed during my adminis-
tration.
I am committed to these appointments,
and pleased that this act recognizes that
we need more than token representation
on the Federal bench.
Last May I signed an Executive order
requiring that judicial selection commis-
sions actively recruit qualified minority
and female lawyers as circuit judge can-
didates. I intend to write each Chairman
of each panel to remind them of this obli-
gation.
The Senate has historically played an
important role in judicial selection, partic-
ularly at the district court level, and I ask
the Senators-and their commissions,
where they exist to work with me to
achieve a more representative judiciary.
To further this goal, I will not nominate
any judges in a circuit until I have had an
opportunity to review all candidates for
that circuit. All candidates for a district
1803
