Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
tarily imposed, some tough Government
actions that can be taken against business
on prices. But in general, John, if you all
will help me, I think we'll be successful.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
Mr.
President.
Mr. President, the next question will
come from Mr. Edward Bates, who is
chairman of the Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Company of Hartford.
Mr. Bates.
MR. BATES. Mr. President, certainly
for our company there is a very strong
commitment to your voluntary program.
And I believe a similar commitment pre-
vails among our business community gen-
erally here in the Hartford area.
I have an equally strong belief that the
success of the program will depend on
what government does in its own area.
You've made reference to areas that may
require additional legislation. Could you
share with us those areas that might be
under consideration, either legislation to
control inflationary Government spend-
ing or to alleviate the inflationary cost of
legislatively mandated regulation?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Bates, I appreci-
ate your promise to help us with this
pro-
gram. And I think you accurately repre-
sent the attitude of most business leaders
in our Nation as well.
It's too early for me to outline in any
specific terms what the legislative pro-
posals will be. Both through regulation,
administrative decision, and legislation,
however, we will do everything we can to
carry out the purposes that I've described.
To reduce budget expenditures is one
thing that's directly under my control, and
the 1980 fiscal year budget will be very
tight, very tough, very closely patterned
to meet the needs of our people without
inflationary pressures.
One very important success that we had
in the Congress this past year-and we
intend to build on it-is the deregulation
of major industries, the insertion of higher
degrees of competition into our free enter-
prise system. I think we've had proven suc-
cess in the airline area. The ICC is mov-
ing on its own initiative to deregulate
other aspects of transportation, and we'll
persist in this same effort through legis-
lation there.
On taxes, I outlined in my anti-inflation
speech the fact that we would not approve
reductions in general income taxes in the
future until inflation is under control. I
think that Charlie Schultze, or others
there with you, Alfred Kahn, can better
outline details of what we might do. But
I can tell you ahead of time, before they
even talk, that this package is still in a
formative stage. But we'll try to put it
together in an anti-inflation effort.
Some of the efforts will be repetitions
of what we attempted unsuccessfully to
get in 1978. A notable example is in hos-
pital cost containment, which I'm sure
would be very favorably supported by the
insurance industry, and also by all those
who need medical care.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
President.
Mr. President, the third and final ques-
tion will come from Mary Heslin, who's
commissioner of the department of con-
sumer protection, State of Connecticut.
Ms. HESLIN. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent. I appreciate this opportunity to
speak to you. I feel that the thousands of
Connecticut consumers that voice their
concern to us here have now the oppor-
tunity, I think, in turn to be voiced na-
tionally.
We hear repeatedly at the various con-
sumer forums that we have provided
throughout the year two major consumer
concerns, one being that of the increased
food prices and the second one being that
of health care costs. In these two areas,
people are most vulnerable; consumers
feel most frightened and most frustrated.
1969
