Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
me to answer. And I don't claim to know
all the answers. I think the best thing that
I can do when I have a difficult question
to address is to turn to you for help, not
only in learning in a session like this but
in your help in helping to pass legislation
in the Congress.
Let me say this as a reminder to you.
We ordinarily are concerned about and
we study and we read about in the news-
papers and we watch on television debates
about some issues that seem to be very
important at the time. But I'd like to re-
mind you that those issues come and go;
they are transient; and they don't indicate
clearly in our minds the basic strength and
the greatness of our country.
Sure, we've got some problems. Amer-
ica has always had problems; our an-
cestors had problems much more serious
than the ones we have now. But God's
blessed us in this Nation with tremendous
natural resources. We are blessed by our
forefathers with the kind of government
structure that lets us work together as a
team. And we also have individual rights,
freedoms to stand on our own feet, to
make our own decisions, to answer our
own questions, to resolve our own differ-
ences, and to reach for greatness in the
future.
So, I'd like to ask you every now and
then when you're complaining about a
particular thing like inflation or perhaps
unemployment or perhaps steel imports
or perhaps a bad education system or the
wrong houses getting torn down, to re-
member in your conversation that we still
have the best and the greatest nation on
Earth. And together we'll make it even
greater.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The town meeting began at 2:30 p.m.
in the Aliquippa High School auditorium. It
was broadcast live on radio and television.
Aliquippa, Pennsylvania
Remarks at a Reception for Gene Atkinson.
September 23, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Now let me say a few words. Thank you
so much. It's really tremendous for me
to be among friends, between two friends
who were there when I needed them, and
who have formed an allegiance with me
and my family that is absolutely unshak-
able, and that there is no way that I as
President could have a closer relationship
with you and the rest of my own admin-
istration than to have Pete Flaherty in
the statehouse running your own affairs
in Pennsylvania, and Gene Atkinson there
to represent your district.
As you know, we were not very well
financed in 1976. [Laughter] So, when we
came into Beaver Valley to campaign, we
didn't have any campaign headquarters
and couldn't afford one. But there was
one certain man who cared enough about
me and who cared enough about my wife,
who was in here campaigning for 5 full
days, to say, "I've got a campaign head-
quarters and telephones. Why don't we
share it?” And you know who that person
was, it was your next Congressman, Gene
Atkinson.
There are some things-
MEMBER OF THE AUDIENCE. Thank you,
Gene Atkinson. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Right. Thank you,
Congressman Atkinson.
MR. ATKINSON. You're welcome, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. There are some things
that we need in Washington, as you well
know. I made a mistake, a slight mistake
in the townhall meeting a while ago. We
do have a limit on what can be contrib-
uted to Members of Congress, and they
1617
