Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
know in the past, earlier this year, on sev-
eral occasions the Department of Energy
has taken very strong action to require
some of the oil companies to repay con-
sumers or to pay actual fines when they
have violated the laws of the American
Government.
My own position is probably predict-
able to you. I will do everything I can to
enforce the law and to assure that any
members of my Cabinet or any agencies
enforce it also. But I'm not familiar with
the specific allegation that you described.
Q. If I could follow up, the General
Accounting Office report is supposed to
come out sometime in December. This is
a new report-
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I see.
Q. -which is going to say the De-
partment of Energy has consistently failed
to respond to these previous reports.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would obvi-
ously want them to comply completely
with the law and do it very rapidly.
CIVIL SERVICE REORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, I was looking at the
employment figures for the Federal Gov-
ernment. It looks like there are 6,000
more employees now than when you took
office, and depending on how you look at
it, it looks like there's a net increase in
Government agencies-I don't mean ad-
visory commissions,
commissions, but Government
agencies. Now, what's happened to your
program to streamline the Government?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we've
streamlined it considerably. I would like
to go out of office having had no increase
in the total Federal employment in spite
of the natural and inevitable growth in
services delivered to the American peo-
ple. Some of the mandated programs that
I ask Congress to approve by law are ex-
panded by the Congress in a proper way,
but more than I would originally have
proposed. And sometimes a program is
put forward by the Congress that I did
not advocate, that I accept, sometimes re-
luctantly, sometimes with enthusiasm.
But I think that we have made the Gov-
ernment much more efficient.
The new move toward civil service re-
form is a good example of that potential
progress in the future. It's a new law
that's just gone into effect. In addition
to that, we've put forward five or six re-
organization plans, all of which have been
approved overwhelmingly by the Con-
gress.
So, my expectation and my goal is to
complete my own service as President
with substantially enhanced delivery of
service to the American people and with
no increase in the total employment of
the Federal Government.
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, when you came to
office, there was a lot of criticism of the
intelligence agencies about the methods
they were using, and now since the Iran
thing there's a good deal of criticism, it
seems, about their evaluation.
How concerned were you about the in-
telligence evaluations in Iran? And could
you give us a general comment about
what you think the state of the intelli-
gence arts is today?
THE PRESIDENT. I've said several times
that one of the pleasant surprises of my
own administration has been the high
quality of work done by the intelligence
community. When I interrogate them
about a specific intelligence item or when
I get general assessments of intelligence
matters, I've been very pleased with the
quality of their work.
Recently, however, I have been con-
cerned that the trend that was established
2102
