Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 18
theirs to protect the interests of the poor
and the underprivileged, not only in this
particular legislation but in other aspects.
Q. But no deals?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Sec-
retary of Energy James R. Schlesinger held a
news conference on the natural gas legislation.
Discount Rate Increase
White House Statement on the Federal
Reserve Board Action. August 18, 1978
The administration fully understands
the reasons for this action. It is essential
that we control inflation if we are to have
a strong dollar and sustainable economic
growth. As we have said, there will be a
series of continuing actions over the next
several weeks to deal with these problems.
NOTE: Earlier in the day, the Board of
Directors of the Federal Reserve System had
raised the discount rate from 74 percent to
73/4 percent.
National P.O.W.-M.I.A.
Recognition Day
Statement on Signing H.J. Res. 963
Into Law. August 18, 1978
American soldiers have been captured
or have become missing in action during
each of our country's wars.
The agony of their families has been
incalculable. The prisoners themselves
have suffered deprivation, starvation,
abuse, torture, and sometimes death at
the hands of their captors.
Their heroism in the face of these af-
flictions has often been greater than the
heroism of men in battle; the prisoner's
battle to preserve life, dignity, and honor
can go on day after painful day, some-
times for years.
And the anguish suffered by the fami-
lies of Americans missing in action is pro-
longed by lack of certainty over the
fate of a husband or son or grandson or
brother.
I am proud to sign a bill honoring these
Americans who have given so much and
endured so much. Many of them have
won through to become some of Amer-
ica's finest citizens-like the former pris-
oner of war who is one of the sponsors
of this bill, Senator Hathaway. I join all
Americans in gratefully recognizing their
sacrifices.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 963 is Public Law
95-349, approved August 18. The resolution
requests the President to issue a proclamation
designating July 18, 1979, as "National
P.O.W.-M.I.A. Recognition Day."
United States International
Trade Commission
Nomination of Paula Stern To Be a
Member. August 18, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Paula Stern, of Washing-
ton, D.C., to be a member of the United
States International Trade Commission.
She would replace Daniel Minchew,
whose term has expired.
Stern was born March 31, 1945, in
Chicago. She received a B.A. from Gou-
cher College in 1967, an M.A. in regional
studies from Harvard University in 1969,
and an M.A. in international affairs
(1970), an M.A.L.D. (1974), and a Ph.
D. (1976) from the Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy.
From 1972 to 1974, Stern was legisla-
tive assistant to Senator Gaylord Nelson.
From 1975 to 1976, she was a guest
scholar at the Brookings Institution,
working on a manuscript on domestic
1453
