Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 6
partnership, not only with Albany but selfish man, Abe Beame. It's an honor for
with Washington as well.
And then I was nominated, and then I
was elected. And I think the first two
visitors I had in Georgia were two des-
perate-looking men. Mayor Abe Beame
was one; Governor Hugh Carey was the
other. They came to talk to me about the
prospects for the future. I said, "What
can I do for you?" And they said, "Mr.
President-elect, we need two things. We
need $1,685 million, and we need two bus
tickets back to New York." [Laughter]
And I think after those trying and des-
perate and lonely days, the progress has
been great.
I would like to pay tribute this evening,
in closing, to a man whom I admire very
much as a dedicated, sincere, competent,
quiet, modest political leader who learned
the intricacies of New York City's af-
fairs under some of the most trying pos-
sible conditions. And when many people,
even perhaps some of you sitting here,
said "Bankruptcy is inevitable; we will
never prevail," Abe Beame was staunch
and strong and courageous and great.
He's got a worthy successor, Ed Koch-
and they worked in the transition in a very
harmonious way—and a staunch sup-
porter as well, as you know, in Hugh
Carey, who's formed a good partnership.
We've still got a long way to go in mak-
ing clear to the world and to the people
here that New York City's financial con-
dition is permanently sound. But because
of this unselfish and dedicated and mod-
est man, great strides have already been
made that form a basis for inevitable fu-
ture success.
So, I've come here to pay my respects
as President of the United States on be-
half of the American people and as a
personal friend and admirer to a great
man, a good man, a dedicated and un-
me to be here.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:23 p.m. on
the Grand Tier level of the Metropolitan Opera
House.
Following the dinner, the President attended
a Metropolitan Opera production of "Aida."
He then returned to Washington, D.C.
Universal Declaration of
Human Rights
Remarks at a White House Meeting
Commemorating the 30th Anniversary of the
Declaration's Signing. December 6, 1978
What I have to say today is funda-
mentally very simple. It's something
I've said many times, including my ac-
ceptance speech when I was nominated
as President and my inaugural speech
when I became President. But it can-
not be said too often or too firmly nor
too strongly.
As long as I am President, the Gov-
ernment of the United States will con-
tinue throughout the world to enhance
human rights. No force on Earth can
separate us from that commitment.
This week we commemorate the 30th
anniversary of the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights. We rededicate
ourselves in the words of Eleanor
Roosevelt, who was the chairperson of
the Human Rights Commission—to the
Universal Declaration as, and I quote
from her, "a common standard of
achievement for all peoples of all na-
tions."
The Universal Declaration and the
human rights conventions that derive
from it do not describe the world as it
is. But these documents are very im-
2161
