Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
|
We've raised the banner of human
rights. And as long as I'm in the White
House, our Nation will always be identi-
fied as the Nation that will insist and fight
for basic human rights, not only in our
own country but throughout the world.
We're searching for peace, as well, to
remove the threat of atomic destruction.
We're negotiating every day with the So-
viet Union to have a SALT agreement,
and I hope before too many weeks goes
by, we will be successful. The Congress
has passed a nonproliferation bill that pre-
vents nations who don't have atomic ex-
plosives from ever having them in the
future.
We are also searching for peace in
southern Africa, to have majority rule,
one person-one vote, an end to apartheid.
In Cyprus we're trying to bring the
Greek- and the Turk-Cypriots into under-
standing, to bring peace to that troubled
region.
And in the Mideast, I've been negotiat-
ing, as you know, with President Sadat,
Prime Minister Begin. And if you'll stick
with me and give me your voice, we'll
bring peace to the Mideast in the next few
weeks.
Let me summarize what I want to say
in just a few words. First of all, this is
your country, ours or your governments
at the Federal, State, and local level. Your
voice cannot be heard unless you're will-
ing to vote and to get other people to par-
ticipate in the democratic processes.
It's always a mistake to take for granted
a political victory. Some of the Demo-
strengthen the income of American farm
families—which has increased already 25
percent to increase farm exports, to have
predictable government policies. We're
trying to bring peace to ourselves and to
the world, maintain a strong defense, put
our people back to work, cut down infla-
tion, stabilize the dollar, have a strong
economy. These are the kind of things
that benefit all those who live in this Na-
tion. And above all, we're trying to have a
government that's honest, decent, trust-
worthy, admired by other people in the
world, known as one that protects human
rights and protects peace, of which the
American people can be truly proud.
It's important that you keep this Dem-
ocratic team together. It's important that
you participate Tuesday by giving us your
vote and your support. And I ask you to
do so, to make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future with a
strong Democratic team and you being
part of it.
Thank you very much, everybody. God
bless you all.
I also want to ask everybody to vote
against Proposition 6.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:20 p.m. at
the K Street Mall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Leo T. McCarthy, speaker of the
California State Assembly.
Proposition 6 is an initiative statute on the
California ballot which would prohibit the
employment of homosexuals in the State school
system.
cratic candidates are far ahead in the pub- Duluth, Minnesota
lic opinion polls. I've seen, in the last few
days of a campaign, those apparent vic-
tories turn into disappointment and de-
feat. Other Democratic candidates have
very close races, because their opponents
can outspend them with an almost un-
limited political campaign chest.
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 3, 1978
We are trying, as a Democratic team, to
meet the needs of our
our people, to
Vice President Mondale, Senator Hum-
phrey, Senator Anderson, Governor Per-
pich, Congressman Oberstar, Governor
Schreiber, Chairman John White, Bob
Short, my friends who are going to have
1949
