Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 4, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
July 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Hi, everybody. Thank
you very much. It's a pleasure to be with
you and to have you come to the White
House.
I'd like to take 3 or 4 minutes to outline
some of the problems that I face now,
some of the decisions I am making, and
then spend the rest of the time answering
your questions that you bring here from
your own communities.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
When I came into office about 18
months ago, my biggest problems that I
faced domestically were employment-
the unemployment rate was about 8 per-
cent-inflation, which was entirely too
high, and the horrible mess in the Federal
bureaucracy.
Now, 18 months later, we've done re-
markably well on employment. We've
added a net of 62 million jobs, never
before achieved, and we have the lowest
unemployment rate that we've had since
Lyndon Johnson was here as President.
Now my biggest problems are inflation
and dealing with the horrible Federal bu-
reaucracy. And the one that's been the
most frustrating, I think, is the bureauc-
racy itself. I am a manager and a business-
man and an engineer by background. And
to bring some order out of chaos within
the Federal establishment itself has been
a very difficult and trying job.
When I meet around this table every
week or 2 weeks with my Cabinet, that is
the most pervasive problem that they
bring to me "We cannot manage the
people who work under us.”
The vast majority of American Govern-
ment workers are superior people. They
are competent and they are dedicated.
And when the civil service system was es-
tablished almost a hundred years ago, the
idea was to reward excellence, to encour-
age a person to do one's best, and to re-
move those who are incompetent or lack
motivation and, of course, to protect the
rights of workers and let managers
manage.
Most of those standards of management
capability brought to the Government a
hundred years or so ago by the civil serv-
ice system have not remained. We now
find an almost lock-step promotion among
employees, no matter how competent they
are or incompetent, no matter how dedi-
cated they are or how much they loaf on
the job.
1347
