Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
come forward and declare their support
to Congress and the Nation. In this in-
stance, many did so, and I am grateful
for their contributions.
I would particularly like to acknowl-
edge the efforts of Stanton Williams of
PPG Industries and his colleagues of the
Business Roundtable; the pivotal role of
Ken Blaylock of the American Federation
of Government Employees, and of Tom
Donahue of the AFL-CIO; David Cohen
of Common Cause; and John Gardner;
the former Cabinet officers and former
Civil Service Commissioners; and the or-
ganizations of State and local government
officials who came forward to support the
legislation; and the many, many profes-
sional and academic organizations who
expressed strong support.
Now this bill is law, but this is just the
start of a continuing effort to improve the
Federal Government's services to the
peo-
ple. By itself, the law will not ensure im-
provement in the system. It provides the
tools; the will and determination must
come from those who manage the Gov-
ernment.
Our aim is to build a new system of ex-
cellence and accountability.
I am asking every executive, every
supervisor, and every Federal employee
to take part in this renewal. I am expect-
ing all members of the Cabinet and all
agency heads to give continuing personal
attention to the implementation of this
legislation.
The changes we expect will not happen
all at once. But I pledge to you today that
this administration will move to imple-
ment the civil service reforms with effi-
ciency and dispatch.
We have already called a conference of
400 line executives and managers, to-
gether with agency personnel directors,
to give concrete advice on making the
act work as intended. It will be held in
less than 2 weeks.
This historic bill goes to the very heart
of what the American people are asking
for: a government and a civil service that
work. That was my campaign promise to
the American people, and it gives me
great personal pleasure to sign the bill
that keeps that promise.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2640 is Public Law 95-
454, approved October 13.
Federal Compliance With
Pollution Control Standards
Executive Order 12088. October 13, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, including
Section 22 of the Toxic Substances Con-
trol Act (15 U.S.C. 2621), Section 313 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
as amended (33 U.S.C. 1323), Section
1447 of the Public Health Service Act, as
amended by the Safe Drinking Water Act
(42 U.S.C. 300j-6), Section 118 of the
Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.
7418(b)), Section 4 of the Noise Control
Act of 1972 (42 U.S.C. 4903), Section
6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as
amended (42 U.S.C. 6961), and Section
301 of Title 3 of the United States Code,
and to ensure Federal compliance with
applicable pollution control standards, it
is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Applicability of Pollution Control
Standards.
1-101. The head of each Executive
agency is responsible for ensuring that all
necessary actions are taken for the pre-
vention, control, and abatement of en-
vironmental pollution with respect to
Federal facilities and activities under the
control of the agency.
1-102. The head of each Executive
agency is responsible for compliance with
1766
