Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending November 10, 1978
Veto of Bill To Change District of
Columbia Retirement Program
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 6536.
November 4, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I am withholding my approval from
H.R. 6536 which would make certain
changes in the retirement program for po-
lice, firefighters, teachers and judges of
the District of Columbia.
This action today in no way alters my
commitment to the basic principles of fair-
ness and self-determination which must be
the cornerstone of Federal-District rela-
tions. Included among our actions to fulfill
this commitment have been (1) support
of full voting representation, (2) support
for expansion of "Home Rule" for the Dis-
trict and (3) support of efforts to provide
greater equity and predictability to the fi-
nancial relationship between the Federal
government and the District.
I have also proposed removal of the
Federal government from the District's
Budgetary process by 1982, as well as the
development of an equitable Federal pay-
ment process on the District's revenues.
This process must rest on an objective,
equitable basis and not be used as a device
to balance the District's budget. To
achieve movement toward that goal, I rec-
ommended a Federal payment for Fiscal
Year 1979 totaling $317 million-the
highest total ever recommended by a
President.
It is against that background that my
Administration last year expressed its will-
ingness to work with the Congress and the
District to develop a sound, reasonable so-
lution to the District's current financial
difficulties with its pension program for
police, firemen, teachers and judges. Pre-
vious Administrations have declined to ac-
knowledge any Federal responsibility for
the District's current pension funding
problems. In the bill that passed the House
of Representatives, my Administration
announced its willingness to assume sixty
percent of the cost of making a transition
to an actuarially sound system. This would
have obligated the Federal Government to
make payments of $462 million over 25
years. Instead, the Congress ultimately
adopted a different method of funding
which identified the Federal responsibility
as that portion of the unfunded liability
attributable to employees who retired
prior to Home Rule. This would require
1961
