Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
proper care for the pumping over the side
of oil wastes as the tanks are discharged.
We have introduced this discussion now
in international fora recently in Europe,
represented by our own Department of
Transportation Secretary.
As you know, many of the tankers who
travel the high seas are registered in rel-
atively small countries which have prac-
tically no control over the quality of the
tankers involved. But we are trying to
take a leadership role in the increasing of
standards for these tankers.
I share your concern about the unnec-
essary waste, not only when a ship is de-
stroyed through accident but routine
pumping over the side of the ship of oil
wastes. We are very eager to join with
you and others in lowering this threat,
and I believe that the world is becoming
aroused now to join us in an effort to cut
down oil spills in the waterways of the
entire world.
Thank you.
QUADRIPARTITE AGREEMENT
Q. My name is Heinz Maschke. I'm
a pensioner, Mr. President. My question
is this, sir: Why do the three Western
powers suffer all the measures of the So-
viet Union for the separation of East and
West? Or are there any secret arrange-
ments between you?
THE PRESIDENT. There are no secret
arrangements between our country, the
British, the French on the one hand, and
the Soviets on the other. So far as I know,
at the time of the signing of the Quad-
ripartite Agreement, this was a public
commitment made by the American and
British and French leaders. And to the
best of my knowledge, there is no secret
agreement now between ourselves on the
Western side and the Soviets.
If there should be any proposals in the
future for secret agreements, I would op-
pose them and even let the proposal be
made public.
ΝΑΤΟ
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dietmar
Born. I'm a business manager. My ques-
tion: On the one hand you stand up for
the unlimited security of Berlin, which
we gratefully acknowledge and we thank
you for, Mr. President. On the other
hand, however, the military odds, the
military forces of the Warsaw Pact are
shifting in disfavor and against Berlin all
the time. Are you not afraid, Mr. Presi-
dent, that this will affect your credibility
in the eyes of the Berliners?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is true that
in the years gone by-3, 4 years or more
ago there was some doubt on the part of
the American people, including some
leaders in the United States Congress,
that our commitment to NATO and to
its strength should be maintained at its
previous level.
I've been in office now for 18 months,
and there has been a renewed spirit of
cooperation and total commitment to
maintain and to increase our strength in
the NATO area. This is exemplified by
the fact that all the members of NATO
now have promised to increase their
actual budget commitments to NATO
defense by 3 percent per year above and
beyond the inflation rate.
We have also begun to allot new types
of weapons with the first priority for our
entire country to the Western European
area: the F-15 airplane, the A-10 air-
plane, the most advanced types of tanks,
the antitank Tow missiles, and so forth,
that I reviewed this morning with
Chancellor Schmidt.
So, I believe that we do have an ade-
quate defense capability now. It is in-
creasing, and there will never be any oc-
casion in the future when our Nation or
those others who are committed to the
1297
