Oct. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the best we can with a partnership that's
important-not just one man, not just a
powerful Senator, not just an influential
congressional leader, not just a President,
but all of us as a team.
We got started less than 2 years ago.
We faced 8-percent unemployment, much
higher in some parts of your State. We
faced serious inflation, which has been
with us now for 10 years. We faced an en-
ergy crisis with no energy policy. We had
record high Federal budget deficits, a
$66 billion deficit. When I was running
for President in 1976, Government spend-
ing, Government bureaucracy were out of
control. The people were fed up with
waste and mismanagement. But working
with Senators Byrd and Randolph, Con-
gressman Staggers, and others, we've
been able to do something already about
these problems.
We've cut unemployment in our whole
Nation by one-fourth, down to 6 percent,
with over 62 million net new jobs. We're
facing up to inflation now. We look upon
it as our number one domestic problem.
We want to stop the outrageous in-
crease in hospital costs. We're getting con-
trol of runaway government. We've re-
formed our civil service system. We've cut
down already the Federal deficit by $28
billion, from $66 billion the first year, to
this coming year, just begun, of $38 bil-
lion. It's on the way down.
We are cutting back paperwork, elimi-
nating unnecessary regulations, stopping
government interference in the private
lives of American people. We've tried to
keep pace with changing times by keeping
our Nation strong militarily, economically,
and politically.
We've strengthened our Armed Forces.
We've kept our alliances with our friends
the world to ensure that we can continue
our record, because since I've been in of-
fice, thank God, not a single American
soldier has shed blood in a foreign land.
And finally, let me say that we've done
all this because of, not in spite of, the peo-
ple of this country, by keeping open our
system of government, letting you partici-
pate, letting you know what's going on.
Sometimes you see our mistakes and
you see the confusion when a new idea is
debated and evolved in government. But
by working for a government as good as
you are, as kind as you are, as competent
as are the people of West Virginia, we
hope to reach the heights of which we are
capable.
We have still a lot to do together. We
cannot rest because we've had some suc-
cesses already. But we can at least be con-
fident that we are facing the future
honestly, and we are working for solutions
for the good of all.
If I can tap the strength and the cour-
age, the ability, the dedication, the patri-
otism of the people of West Virginia and
others like you in our country, we'll have
an even greater nation than we have al-
ready. And as you well know, we still live
in the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:43 p.m. at
Elkins High School Wimers Field. Following
his remarks, he rode in the festival parade
and then returned to Camp David, Md.
Federal Civilian and Military
Pay Increases
Executive Order 12087. October 7, 1978
intact. We've got a foreign policy based ADJUSTMENTS of Certain Rates OF PAY
on peace and on human rights that we can
be proud of. We've been working hard
not only at Camp David but throughout
AND ALLOWANCES
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and the laws of
1732
