Aug. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
or conflict of interest could occur, but al-
lows certain exemptions from these pro-
hibitions. Labor will be responsible for
overseeing fiduciary conduct under these
provisions.
3) Both Departments will retain en-
forcement powers. The Reorganization
Plan will continue Treasury's authority
to audit plans and levy tax penalties for
any deviation from standards. The plan
will also continue Labor's authority to
bring civil action against plans and fidu-
ciaries. These provisions are retained in
order to keep the special expertise of each
Department available. New coordination
between the Departments will eliminate
duplicative investigations of alleged viola-
tions.
This reorganization will make an im-
mediate improvement in ERISA's admin-
istration. It will eliminate almost all of
the dual and overlapping authority in the
two departments and dramatically cut the
time required to process applications for
exemptions from prohibited transactions.
This plan is an interim arrangement.
After the Departments have had a chance
to administer ERISA under this new plan,
the Office of Management and Budget
and the Departments will jointly evaluate
that experience. Based on that evaluation,
early in 1980, the Administration will
make appropriate legislative proposals to
establish a long-term administrative struc-
ture for ERISA.
Each provision in this reorganization
will accomplish one or more of the pur-
poses in Title 5 of U.S.C. 901 (a). There
will be no change in expenditure or per-
sonnel levels, although a small number of
people will be transferred from the De-
partment of Treasury to the Department
of Labor.
We all recognize that the administra-
tion of ERISA has been unduly burden-
some. I am confident that this reorgani-
tion will significantly relieve much of that
burden.
This plan is the culmination of our ef-
fort to streamline ERISA. It provides an
administrative arrangement that will
work.
ERISA has been a symbol of unneces-
sarily complex government regulation. I
hope this new step will become equally
symbolic of
symbolic of my Administration's commit-
ment to making government more effec-
tive and less intrusive in the lives of our
people.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
August 10, 1978.
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 4 OF 1978
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives in Congress assembled, August 10, 1978,
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 9
of Title 5 of the United States Code.
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY
ACT TRANSFERS
SECTION 101. Transfer to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury. Except as otherwise
provided in Sections 104 and 106 of this
Plan, all authority of the Secretary of
Labor to issue the following described
documents pursuant to the statutes here-
inafter specified is hereby transferred to
the Secretary of the Treasury:
(a) regulations, rulings, opinions, vari-
ances and waivers under Parts 2 and 3
of Subtitle B of Title I and subsection
1012(c) of Title II of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29
U.S.C. 1001 note) (hereinafter referred
to as "ERISA"),
EXCEPT for sections and subsections
201, 203(a) (3) (B), 209, and 301(a)
of ERISA;
(b) such regulations, rulings, and opin-
ions which are granted to the Secretary
of Labor under Sections 404, 410, 411,
1402
