Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(3) This proclamation shall be effec-
tive as to those articles entered, or with-
drawn from warehouse, for consumption
on or after November 17, 1978, and be-
fore the close of November 16, 1981, un-
less the period of its effectiveness is earlier
expressly modified or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this fifteenth day of No-
vember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:25 a.m., November 16, 1978]
NOTE: The annex is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of November 17, 1978.
Hubert H. Humphrey North-
South Scholarship Program
Announcement of a White House Meeting To
Discuss the Program's Implementation.
November 15, 1978
The President today invited the presi-
dents of 50 U.S. universities to attend a
White House meeting on December 5,
1978, to discuss the implementation of the
new Hubert H. Humphrey North-South
Scholarship program. The invitation was
extended on the President's behalf by
Charles W. Bray III, Acting Director
of the International Communications
Agency.
The program will bring young men and
women from every developing nation with
which we have diplomatic relations to
study in U.S. universities for 1 year of
postgraduate study as "Humphrey North-
South Scholars." In addition, the students
will attend a 3-month summer workshop
on North-South relations at the Hum-
phrey Institute in Minnesota. Like the
Rhodes Scholar, the Humphrey Scholar
will be chosen on the basis of merit and
potential leadership, but additionally, the
Humphrey Scholar will be of modest
means and will be dedicated to a career
in public service.
The program was announced by the
Vice President on October 21, 1978, in a
speech to the American Lutheran Church
general convention in Moorehead, Minn.
The idea for the program was first sug-
gested by the President in Caracas on
March 31, 1978. The proposal resulted
from an interagency review chaired by
the National Security Council staff. Fifty
universities throughout the United States
have been selected to be eligible to par-
ticipate in this program.
The program's purpose is to help edu-
cate a core group of a new generation of
developing world leaders. It is designed
to provide education and a common ex-
perience for a group of future leaders and
by so doing provide a compelling symbol
of U.S. interest in the developing world
and in the North-South dialog as one of
the most significant global challenges of
our time. It will seek out talented youth
who might otherwise not be able to afford
education, thereby demonstrating a spe-
cial American concern for helping the
poor and for promoting equality of peo-
ple. The purpose of the studies will be to
enhance the students' capabilities for pub-
lic service, in particular to help improve
incomes, living standards, and employ-
ment and enable them to contribute more
effectively to the equitable development
of their country.
The program will cost $5 million for
about 240 students. It will begin in Sep-
tember 1979 and will be administered
by the International Communication
Agency.
2038
