Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
put its budget together in a careful way
so that the taxpayers' money should not
be wasted and so that there should be the
utmost service rendered to those who
need it for a given level of Government
expenditures.
My own background is as a working
person, a farmer; my training is as an
engineer and a scientist. And I've tried to
bring to the Government those principles,
because you can't educate a child, you
can't feed a hungry person, you can't
build a home with waste and mismanage-
ment and fraud. And for too long the
people in our country have had a growing
doubt about the ability of government to
handle its own affairs.
And I think with the help of those on
the stage with me tonight, particularly
Fritz Mondale, we've made progress in
that respect. I won't repeat what he's al-
ready said so well. But we've done a few
additional things.
One was to recognize the quality of the
civil servants of our country, people who
believed in government, entered it at a
very low wage, knew that they had one
life to live on Earth, one career to con-
tribute. They didn't ever get any glory or
fame. They didn't ever hear a crowd ap-
plaud. They quite often were not recog-
nized for what they achieved. They were
often castigated or criticized when some-
one else made a mistake.
And now, after 95 years, we have re-
formed the civil service system to reward
and encourage those who are competent
and who do a good job, who contribute
well; to identify those who don't do so
well, who are not competent, who are not
well motivated, perhaps lazy, so that they
can be encouraged to do better, or trans-
ferred or discharged.
And we now have a civil service com-
ing on that will let managers manage and
make us proud once again of our Govern-
ment. This is the kind of thing we've tried
to bring to make government more
competent.
I believe in the free enterprise system,
and I particularly believe in the free, com-
petitive part of it.
In the past, in our Government-too
often in the past we've established regu-
latory commissions or passed laws osten-
sibly to protect consumers. But over a
period of years of abuse and political
pressure and intrigue, and intense focus-
ing by special interest groups on those reg-
ulatory agencies, their purpose has been
subverted. And instead of protecting the
consumers against the regulated industry,
they've turned and protected the regu-
lated industry against consumers. We're
trying to change that and I believe we
can change it.
One quick example is the airline indus-
try. We've got in the last few months a
tremendous reduction in air fares. For-
merly empty planes are now full. Traffic
has gone up tremendously. Profits have
gone up tremendously. And I'll predict
that within the next few years the Civil
Aeronautics Board will find that its ex-
istence is no longer needed. Consumers
will benefit. Airlines will benefit. Our Na-
tion will benefit as well.
So, competence in managing the Gov-
ernment is very good indeed.
Another thing that we need, of course,
is a government that's compassionate, that
understands the needs of others. And I
think here is where Fritz Mondale has
contributed to my own administration in
a way that's brought credit to you and to
those that I've mentioned already, par-
ticularly Senators Humphrey.
We also have a need to have a strong de-
fense, a strong nation politically, a
strong nation economically. We're not
trying to use this strength to benefit our-
selves at the expense of others. We are
strong enough now not to have to depend
1831
