Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 16
Bonn Economic Summit
Conference
Informal Exchange With Reporters.
July 16, 1978
Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, every-
body.
Q. How did you feel about the first ses-
sion of the conference today?
THE PRESIDENT. I was pleased with it.
We've not yet concluded any specific
language for the final communique; that
will be done tonight and tomorrow. But
there was a very frank and open discussion
among the seven heads of state, the For-
eign Ministers, and the Finance Ministers.
And this has been the habit within these
summit conferences.
One of the best things about it is that
we've spent literally months with staff
members, Cabinet officers, and others,
preparing for the summit, trying to under-
stand the particular problems and atti-
tudes of the other six nations, plus the
European Community, which is repre-
sented here by its head.
I think that the final result of the de-
liberations will be good. I believe that the
world economic community, when it ana-
lyzes what we do, will be pleased. And I
think the attitude of all of the heads of
state has been very constructive.
Q. Mr. President, just how much pres-
sure is the United States under because of
its energy consumption?
THE PRESIDENT. The other nations are
no more concerned about excessive con-
sumption and the absence of an energy
policy than I am. This is a matter on
which we've been working, almost without
ceasing, for the last 15 or 16 months.
My own belief and my hope is that the
Congress will act without delay to imple-
ment our energy policy and that the
peo-
ple of the United States will recognize that
excessive consumption or waste of energy
is not in the best interest of our own peo-
ple or the rest of the world. It obviously is
of much more critical importance to a
country like Japan, which has to import
98 percent of its energy, and even coun-
tries like France and Germany, which
have a very low supply of their own
energy.
They feel not only that we compete
with them for world supplies of oil and
therefore drive up the price and create the
ultimate shortage but that in the process
we have an attitude of wastefulness based
on very low-price energy in the past that
they would like to see corrected. But they
share our hope and our concern about the
energy supply problems and the over-con-
sumption in our own Nation.
Q. Were you able to give your fellow
heads of state anything more specific other
than the promise of a lack of congres-
sional action or anything else on the en-
ergy question?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, the exact lan-
guage is still being drafted. But I have
told them what my own attitude would
be-the goals that our Nation has estab-
lished for the reduction of energy con-
sumption, the shift toward greater supply
of coal, solar energy, other alternative
energy sources and have spelled this out
quite clearly; also, our hope that the ab-
normally low prices of oil in our country,
which contributes to excessive waste,
might be raised to the world market price
and my belief that the Congress will act
on this legislation, hopefully beginning
with the first package Tuesday of this
week.
Q. There was talk of a quota, the pos-
sibility that you might call for an oil
quota.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think that
would be inappropriate for me to put in
the communique, because I've not de-
1307
