Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 21
NEGOTIATING PRINCIPLES
The guiding principle of U.S. aviation
negotiating policy will be to trade com-
petitive opportunities, rather than restric-
tions, with our negotiating partners. We
will aggressively pursue our interests in
expanded air transportation and reduced
prices rather than accept the self-defeat-
ing accommodation of protectionism. Our
concessions in negotiations will be given
in return for progress toward competitive
objectives, and these concessions them-
selves will be of a liberalizing character.
Proposed bilateral agreements which
do not meet our minimum competitive
objectives will not be signed without prior
Presidential approval.
Congressional Representation
for the District of Columbia
Statement on the Proposed Constitutional
Amendment. August 21, 1978
The Senate will vote tomorrow on a
resolution for a constitutional amendment
to give District of Columbia citizens full
voting representation in the Congress. I
strongly urge the Senate to pass the
resolution.
There should be no doubt that District
citizens deserve full voting representation
in Congress. First, residents of the Dis-
trict paid over $1 billion in Federal taxes
last year, and the per capita tax payment
is well above the national average. Sec-
ond, District residents have fought and
died in every war since the War for Inde-
pendence. During the Vietnam conflict,
only three States suffered greater casual-
ties than the District. Third, virtually
every other country in the free world al-
ready provides full voting representation
to the citizens of its capital city.
Full voting representation for the Dis-
trict has strong bipartisan support. The
bipartisan Task Force on the District of
Columbia, chaired by Vice President
Mondale, strongly recommended adop-
tion of full voting representation. The
Democratic and Republican Parties in-
cluded support for the measure in their
1976 platforms.
Adoption of the resolution is a major
human rights priority for my administra-
tion, and I hope the Senate will vote
favorably tomorrow.
United States Ambassador
to Venezuela
Nomination of William H. Luers.
August 21, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate William H. Luers of
Illinois as Ambassador to Venezuela. He
would succeed Viron P. Vaky, who has
been appointed Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs.
Mr. Luers was born May 15, 1929, in
Springfield, Ill. He received a B.A. in 1951
from Hamilton College and an M.A. in
1957 from Columbia University. He
served in the United States Navy as a
lieutenant from 1952 to 1956.
He entered the Foreign Service in 1957
as consular officer in Naples. He was in-
ternational relations officer in the State
Department from 1960 to 1962. In 1962
and 1963, he attended Russian language
and area studies at the Foreign Service In-
stitute at Oberammergau, and from 1963
to 1965, he was political officer in Mos-
cow. He returned to the State Department
from 1965 to 1969, serving first as intelli-
gence research specialist and then as in-
ternational relations officer. From 1969 to
1465
