Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Education Amendments of 1978
and the Middle Income Student
Assistance Act
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
November 1, 1978
ing to remove the abuses in the so-called
Impact Aid legislation that has been on
the books for too long and which heavily
favors some undeserving communities at
the expense of others.
There's a substantial reduction avail-
able now to reduce paperwork by simpli-
The President. It took me all morning fication of administration of grant pro-
to read this bill. [Laughter]
It's a great pleasure for me to take part
in this ceremony of recognizing a historic
achievement on the part of the Congress.
In 1965 I was a State senator in Geor-
gia, very interested in education, and I
was invited to meet with the Secretary of
HEW in the final preparation of the 1965
Elementary and Secondary Education Act
and the Higher Education Act.
I think more than any other Congress
in history, perhaps even including those
who served in 1965, this Congress has been
the most education minded and has done
the most in dollar terms for education in
our country. The totality of what has been
accomplished in these two bills is very
difficult to assess, certainly in a brief
riod of time.
pe-
It opens up aid to the most disadvan-
taged children, more than 2 million addi-
tional children who live in very poor
neighborhoods or whose families suffer
from poverty or deprivation will be aided
by this legislation. The legislation also
emphasizes additional progress in the
basic skills, the ability to read, to write,
and to perform mathematical problems.
I think this opens up a way also to en-
hance the already improving interrela-
tionship between the Federal, State, and
local governments in the administration
and the support, financially, of the Amer-
ican education system. There is no en-
croachment in these bills by the Federal
Government into the administration or
decisionmaking process of the local school
system. We've been careful about that.
There's an increased ability in budget-
grams and by reducing the reporting re-
quired and still leaving accountability in-
tact.
We have made major steps forward in
bilingual education, long overdue prog-
ress, and improving the educational op-
portunities of Native Americans, Ameri-
can Indians, and providing additional as-
sistance in guaranteeing the educational
rights of women.
Again, within the bounds of other laws
and constitutional provisions, this legisla-
tion will provide an additional emphasis
and impetus to the desegregation of our
schools to remove deprivation of human
rights, of basic civil rights. And there's
additional aid available in this legislation
also for students who attend private
schools.
I would like to point out that in the
legislation concerning middle-income stu-
dent assistance relating to the colleges,
this legislation is completely compatible
with the recommendations made by me to
the Congress earlier this year. I'm very
grateful that it has materialized in this
fine fashion. It provides substantially in-
creased student aid for students from
low- and middle-income families, in-
creases the income level of families that
are eligible for loans, provides additional
guarantees of interest to be paid by the
Federal Government for students who are
still in college, and expands the college
students who are covered by a net increase
of 2 million.
I'm particularly grateful to the Mem-
bers of Congress who played the leader-
1916
