Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
H.R. 10882 constituted an unacceptable
intrusion on the authority of the President
to present his budget recommendations to
the Congress.
I am pleased, therefore, that the Con-
gress has reenacted legislation extending
the Sikes Act through 1981, while deleting
the objectionable provisions of the earlier
bill. This administration will continue its
efforts, in cooperation with the States un-
der this and other laws, to ensure the con-
servation and enhancement of fish and
wildlife on Federal lands.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13745 is Public Law
95-420, approved October 5.
The statement was released on October 6.
Amtrak Improvement Act
of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 3040 Into Law.
October 5, 1978
I am today signing into law S. 3040, the
Amtrak Improvement Act of 1978.
This legislation authorizes the appropri-
ation of $755 million in Federal funds in
fiscal year 1979 for the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation's (Amtrak) oper-
ating expenses and capital expenditures.
The bill also directs the Secretary of
Transportation, in conjunction with Am-
trak, to conduct a study of Amtrak's basic
route structure for railroad passenger serv-
ice and to submit his final recommenda-
tions regarding that system to the Con-
gress by December 31, 1978.
of Amtrak's route system. Without this
legislation, restructuring would have to
be done on a route-by-route basis, in a
time consuming manner, with no assur-
ance that the final result would coincide
with national transportation needs and
priorities. Under these circumstances it
would be very difficult to control the fu-
ture growth of Amtrak's deficit. For this
reason, I am signing the bill.
However, S. 3040 also contains a pro-
vision requiring that the final recom-
mendations of the Secretary of Transpor-
tation regarding the Amtrak route system
must lay before Congress for a period of
90 calendar days, during which they may
be disapproved by a simple resolution
adopted by either the Senate or the House
of Representatives.
In my message to the Congress of June
21, 1978, I specifically indicated that I re-
gard such congressional control over the
exercise of statutory discretion by the ex-
ecutive branch as unconstitutional. Ac-
cordingly, I am directing the Secretary
of Transportation to treat this provision
in S. 3040 as a "report and wait" provi-
sion.
I am also concerned over the "Buy
American" provision in this bill. S. 3040
would require that Amtrak's purchase of
goods costing over $1 million be limited to
those mined, produced, or manufactured
in the United States. However, there are
provisions in the legislation permitting the
Secretary of Transportation to waive these
"Buy American" requirements under cer-
tain conditions. I expect the Secretary to
exercise his discretionary waiver author-
ity in a manner that is consistent with the
For several years attempts have been
made to put Amtrak on a more stable
financial footing and to discontinue serv-
ices that have large operating losses with- public interest, including our obligations
out providing substantial public benefits.
under international agreements.
This bill provides a procedure for bringing 421, approved October 5.
about a quick, significant restructuring
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3040 is Public Law 95-
The statement was released on October 6.
1718
