Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 31
this as a sign of growing protectionist sen-
timent. Moreover, because other petitions
of the industry are now being investigated
under the antidumping and countervail-
ing duty statutes, it would also be seen as
an attempt to harass foreign exporters
through duplication of remedies.
(7) A duty increase such as recom-
mended by the USITC will not place ef-
fective restraints on import competition
but may merely accelerate the movement
of production facilities out of Korea and
Taiwan and into such countries as India,
Indonesia, and Thailand.
(8) Provision of import relief would
subject U.S. jobs in other industries to
possible foreign retaliation against U.S.
exports or compensation by the United
States in the form of reduced import re-
strictions on other products.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:11 p.m., October 31, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on October 31.
Federal Regulatory Management
Memorandum From the President.
October 31, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Strengthening Regulatory Man-
agement
I am deeply committed to seeing that
the regulatory agencies perform their
important missions without imposing un-
necessary costs. Last March I issued
Executive Order 12044 as a first step
toward ensuring that regulations achieve
their statutory goals in the most effective
and balanced way. To reinforce this effort,
I am establishing a Regulatory Council, to
include all Executive Departments and
Agencies with major regulatory responsi-
bilities. The independent regulatory com-
missions will be invited to join. I am also
extending the Regulatory Analysis Review
program and accelerating the "sunset"
process under Executive Order 12044.
The Regulatory Council will help in-
form me, the public, and the Congress
about the cumulative impact of regula-
tion on the economy. It will publish, at
least every six months, a unified calendar
of major regulations, using the criteria de-
fined in the Executive Order. This calen-
dar will state the goals and benefits, legal
requirements, and expected timetables of
the regulations, along with available esti-
mates of economic impacts. The first cal-
endar will be published no later than Feb-
ruary 1, 1979.
My Executive Office agencies and I will
work with the Council and the calendar.
The Council will help ensure that regu-
lations are well coordinated, do not con-
flict, and do not impose excess burdens on
particular sectors of the economy. OMB
will use the calendar in its key role of over-
seeing agency compliance with the Ex-
ecutive Order.
The Council will consult with the Con-
gress and the public as it proceeds. In the
next few weeks, I will meet with the
Council to discuss the development of the
calendar, identify cross-cutting issues, and
emphasize the need to regulate in the least
costly, most effective manner. The Coun-
cil will be chaired by a member for a one
year term. The first chairman, serving
through January 1, 1980, will be Douglas
Costle. The departments should partici-
pate in their capacities as regulators.
The regulatory calendar will be used by
the Regulatory Analysis Review Group
that I established on an interim basis early
this year. This group assists agencies in
analyzing the economic consequences of
1905
