July 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
are those economic differences that you
have with the Federal Republic?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are a num-
ber of matters that we have discussed and
will be on the agenda for the summit con-
ference involving the other five leaders.
One of them, of course, is the excessive
consumption of oil and other energy
products in our own Nation; the adverse
balance of payments that relate to the
United States; the common desire for
there to be vigorous growth among the
Western democracies; a sharing of com-
mitment to reduce obstacles to free trade.
I think there is no difference that I can
detect in the ultimate goals that we hope
to achieve. But, obviously, national inter-
ests are at variance. We are not nearly so
heavily dependent, for instance, upon ex-
ports as part of maintaining employment
and a vigorous economy, as are the other
nations involved. Only 7 percent,
roughly, of our gross national product
goes to the export trade. I think maybe
25 or 35 percent of Germany's gross do-
mestic product goes to the export of
trade.
We don't have differences concerning
goals. But there are normal differences of
perspective because of the characteris-
tics of our countries.
Q. Do you agree with Chancellor
Schmidt that the U.S. oil imports is the
greatest problem of international trade?
THE CHANCELLOR. Beg your pardon,
sir, there will be another press briefing a
little bit more lengthier than occasioned
just now. We would like on behalf of the
President as well as on my behalf to thank
you all and look forward to be seeing you
in some of these days. Thank you very
much indeed.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:08 p.m. in
the Chancellory Lobby. The translations of
Chancellor Schmidt's remarks and the German
reporter's question follow the White House
press release.
Following their remarks, President Carter
and Chancellor Schmidt proceeded to the
Chancellor's Bungalow for a working luncheon.
Earlier in the day, the President partici-
pated in the official welcoming ceremony held
at Villa Hammerschmidt in Bonn. He then
met with West German President Walter
Scheel at the villa.
Bonn, Federal Republic of
Germany
Remarks at the Bonn City Hall. July 14, 1978
Distinguished officials and citizens of
the great city of Bonn, thank you for your
welcome.
Before I came to Bonn, I was warned
that three things might happen to me
while I was in your city. But there has
been no rain; as you can see, I'm not in
the least tired; and no matter where I go,
the railroad gates have always been open.
Instead, I have seen a beautiful city, a
green and a pleasant community with
which to admire your quality of life.
Konrad Adenauer always said he chose
Bonn as capital, temporary capital, of the
Federal Republic, because in addition to
his love for roses, he knew democracy
could reach its fullest flower in this serene
and gentle town along the banks of the
Rhine. Despite all the changes you have
undergone, you have kept that serenity
and charm.
When I signed your Golden Book a few
moments ago, I was surrounded by re-
minders of your history. And I am hon-
ored, as I stand here, to think of the his-
tory that has taken place on these very
steps.
Many distinguished visitors
visitors have
spoken here, among them President
Charles de Gaulle and our own President
John F. Kennedy. But even more impor-
tant are those who spoke to you not as
1284
