Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(C) In order to effectuate all of the
provisions of this memorandum, when-
ever any law, regulation, or order of the
United States refers to a foreign country,
nation, state, government, or similar en-
tity, departments and agencies shall con-
strue those terms and apply those laws,
regulations, or orders to include Taiwan.
(D) In conducting and carrying out
programs, transactions, and other rela-
tions with the people on Taiwan, interests
of the people of the United States will be
represented as appropriate by an unoffi-
cial instrumentality in corporate form, to
be identified shortly.
(E) The above directives shall apply
to and be carried out by all departments
and agencies, except as I may otherwise
determine.
I shall submit to the Congress a request
for legislation relative to non-governmen-
tal relationships between the American
people and the people on Taiwan.
This memorandum shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:26 p.m., January 2, 1979]
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
December 26
The President went to Camp David,
Md., following his return to Andrews Air
Force Base, Md., from a visit to Plains,
Ga.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
NOTE: The Congress having adjourned sine die
on Sunday, October 15, no nominations were
submitted during the period covered by this
issue. The first session of the 96th Congress
will begin on Monday, January 15, 1979.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
NOTE: All releases of the Office of the White
House Press Secretary, distributed during the
period covered by this issue, have been included
in the issue.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
ACTS APPROVED BY
THE PRESIDENT
NOTE: The President completed his considera-
tion of acts and joint resolutions passed during
the second session of the 95th Congress on No-
vember 10. The first session of the 96th Con-
gress will begin on Monday, January 15, 1979.
2303
