Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
H.R. 12598 authorizes fiscal year 1979
appropriations for the Department of
State, the International Communication
Agency (ICA), and the Board for Inter-
national Broadcasting (BIB) in the ag-
gregate amount of $1,904,992,000. In
addition, the bill contains a number of
provisions sought by the administration
which will allow us to conduct foreign
affairs better.
H.R. 12598 also permits more than 800
senior Foreign Service officers, whose pay
is at $47,500, to retire voluntarily between
October 1, 1978, and December 31, 1979,
and compute their annuities on the basis
of their highest single year's salary. This
is commonly referred to as "high one" re-
tirement authority. Currently, annuities of
all civil service and other Foreign Service
employees are based on the average of
their highest 3 years' salaries.
This extraordinary retirement bonus-
only for high-ranking Foreign Service offi-
cers paid at the statutory ceiling of
$47,500-will serve as an inducement to
retirement at most only 17 months earlier
than they might otherwise elect under the
"high three" computation formula.
I strongly oppose this provision. Enact-
ment of a "high one" bonus for the For-
eign Service introduces a new one-time
retirement benefit, despite my call for a
moratorium on nonessential Government
retirement liberalizations. This call came
during the deliberations of the new Pres-
ident's Commission on Pension Policy,
which was established to review the Na-
tion's retirement and disability systems,
including Federal employee retirement
systems.
Nevertheless, I am signing H.R. 12598
despite the “high one" retirement provi-
sion, because the bill authorizes urgently
needed appropriations for State, ICA, and
BIB, while also creating new tools to help
these agencies carry out their foreign af-
fairs programs. In this regard, I note that
the conference report on H.R. 12598 ex-
plains that the Senate, which did not in-
clude "high one" in its version of the bill,
acceded to the House: ". . . because of
the serious personnel surplus in senior For-
eign Service ranks. It is not to be con-
strued as a precedent for broadening
other Government retirement induce-
ment authorities now or in the future.
Both the House International Rela-
tions Committee and the House Post
Office and Civil Service Committee
Chairmen have agreed that enacting this
provision will not constitute a precedent
for other U.S. Government personnel sys-
tems."
In approving H.R. 12598, I am taking
in good faith the conferees' assurances
that the bill's "high one" retirement au-
thority will not serve as a precedent for
other Government retirement programs.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12598 is Public Law
95-426, approved October 7.
Departments of State, Justice, and
Commerce, the Judiciary, and
Related Agencies Appropriation
Act, 1979
Statement on Signing H.R. 12934 Into Law.
October 10, 1978
Today I have signed H.R. 12934,
which makes appropriations for the
Departments of State, Justice, and
Commerce, the judiciary, and related
agencies.
Although I have signed this appropri-
ation bill, I strongly oppose a provision
which compromises this Government's
ability to fulfill its legally binding finan-
cial obligations to the United Nations and
its specialized agencies. The Congress has
enacted unacceptable prohibitory lan-
guage in reducing the appropriation for
1735
