Oct. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ularly in a bragging way, because a lot
of the work is a culmination of many years
of effort by the Congress and by my
Republican predecessors. But I think the
handicapped people in our country have
benefited tremendously in the last year's
action by the Congress, including both
legislation, executive decisions made by
me and Joe Califano, and budget allo-
cations of funds.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I might take one other question.
NATIONAL RURAL POLICY
Q. Mr. President, I'm Joe Parker,
from North Carolina. Governor Hunt has
made a big thing of balanced growth in
our State. As you know, we are a State
of small cities. We heard Mr. Eizenstat
this morning talk about urban policy.
What, if anything, does the administra-
tion plan to do on framing a national
rural policy, and will it be as comprehen-
sive as the urban policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, our
urban policy was designed to incorporate
smaller cities and communities, as well as
the very large ones. It was specifically not
designed just for the major cities. Be-
cause of Governor Hunt's interest, we are
using North Carolina, in effect, as an ex-
perimental region for rural growth and
improvement of community life, with
special attention given by Cabinet mem-
bers, with some small allocation of funds.
And I believe that what is decided in
North Carolina as an outcome of these
experiments that have been initiated by
Governor Hunt, working with me and my
staff members, will be a good precursor to
what we can do on a nationwide basis.
I doubt if we'll have to have as com-
plicated and as far-reaching a nationwide
effort to determine what ought to be done.
We've done a lot of work on this as we
concluded our urban policy, and now
we're trying to experiment and try out
some of the ideas in North Carolina.
North Carolina is not exclusively the place
that we are attempting these things, but
we have focused our attention more on
North Carolina because of Governor
Hunt's interest.
If you all don't mind, I'd like to close
now I've got another meeting-and
take 2 or 3 minutes to get an individual
photograph with you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 14.
Employee Retirement Income
Security Act Transfers
Statement on Congressional Action on
Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978.
October 14, 1978
I welcome the Congress approval of the
ERISA reorganization plan.
This reorganization plan, the fourth to
be submitted and become effective this
session, can be implemented right away
and will have immediate tangible results.
It will reduce jurisdictional overlap and
duplication by clearly dividing responsi-
bility for ERISA regulation between the
Departments of Labor and Treasury. It
will reduce substantially ERISA's admin-
istrative burden on both businesses and
labor unions by reducing the time required
to process applications for exemptions
from prohibited transactions and ac-
celerating the issuance of the remaining
regulations. ERISA has been a symbol of
unnecessarily complex governmental reg-
ulation, and this plan will simplify signi-
ficantly the administration of the act.
I want to thank Chairmen Ribicoff and
Brooks, Senators Javits, Bentsen, and Wil-
1782
