July 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the world. We are fortunate, we've been
blessed with economic and political and
military strength and with a fine, high
standard of living for our own people.
We recognize the need to share this with
other, less developed countries. And all
these cumulative commitments, I think,
will be very good and constructive for the
entire world economy in the months
ahead.
I personally believe that the strong
statement on controlling air piracy, ter-
rorism, is in itself worth the entire prepa-
ration and conduct of the summit. We
are determined that this commitment be
carried out individually and collectively.
And our Foreign Ministers have been in-
structed immediately to contact other na-
tions around the world without delay, to
encourage them to join in with us in this
substantive and, I think, adequate move
to prevent air hijacking in the future.
I leave this summit conference with a
resolve to carry out our purposes, to con-
tinue our mutual discussions and consul-
tations, and with a new sense of
confidence.
This has been a very successful meeting
among us. The preparation for it was very
instructive and educational, and the su-
perb chairmanship of Chancellor Schmidt
has helped to ensure its success.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:12 p.m. at
Bonn Stadt Theater following concluding state-
ments by Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany, Prime Minister
Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada, President
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of France, Prime
Minister Giulio Andreotti of Italy, Prime Min-
ister Takeo Fukuda of Japan, and Prime Min-
ister James Callaghan of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Earlier in the day, the President attended
the third and fourth sessions of the summit
conference at the Palais Schaumburg and a
working luncheon hosted by President Scheel
for summit participants at Villa Hammer-
schmidt.
Bonn Economic Summit
Conference
Declaration Issued at the Conclusion of the
Conference. July 17, 1978
The Heads of State and Government of
Canada, the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, France, Italy, Japan, the United
many, France,
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the United States of America
met in Bonn on 16th and 17th July 1978.
The European Community was repre-
sented by the President of the European
Council and by the President of the Euro-
pean Commission for discussion of mat-
ters within the Community's competence.
1. We agreed on a comprehensive
strategy covering growth, employment
and inflation, international monetary
policy, energy, trade and other issues of
particular interest to developing coun-
tries. We must create more jobs and fight
inflation, strengthen international trad-
ing, reduce payments imbalances, and
achieve greater stability in exchange
markets. We are dealing with long-term
problems, which will only yield to sus-
tained efforts. This strategy is a coherent
whole, whose parts are interdependent.
To this strategy, each of our countries can
contribute; from it, each can benefit.
GROWTH, EMPLOYMENT AND INFLATION
2. We are concerned, above all, about
world-wide unemployment because it has
been at too high a level for many years,
because it hits hardest at the most vul-
nerable sections of the population, be-
cause its economic cost is high and its hu-
man cost higher still. We will act, through
measures to assure growth and develop
needed skills, to increase employment.
In doing this, we will build on the
progress that has already been made in
the fight against inflation and will seek
new successes in that fight. But we need
1310
