Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
business owners face in obtaining Federal
grants and contracts;
(3) to enforce existing civil rights laws
(i.e., The Equal Credit Opportunity Act
of 1974, the Fair Housing Act, Title IX
of the Education Amendments of 1972,
and The Civil Rights Act of 1964);
(4) to improve the collection and dis-
semination of data on the status of
women; and
(5) to increase funding and visibility of
programs serving women's needs.
My Reorganization Plan #1 of
1978, a major reorganization effort of the
Administration, strengthens and consoli-
dates within the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission Federal enforce-
ment of laws and executive orders against
job discrimination based on sex and race.
• I have signed and am fully implement-
ing several important new laws-Protec-
tion of Children Against Sexual Exploita-
tion Act of 1977, The Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment and Adoption
Reform Act of 1978, the Social Security
Amendments of 1977, and The Age Dis-
crimination in Employment Act Amend-
ments of 1978.
My Administration in its first eighteen
months has initiated and supported legis-
lation aimed at meeting the needs of
women in many areas identified in the
National Plan of Action. I urge Congress
to act upon this legislation quickly.
Some of the resolutions in the Na-
tional Plan of Action require structural as
well as policy changes. My Administration
has developed new operations to improve
the Federal government's response to
women's needs:
• The Interdepartmental Task Force on
Women and the National Advisory Com-
mittee for Women were created by Execu-
tive Order in March, 1978, to advise me of
additional action necessary to implement
the Plan of Action.
• The Department of Justice Task
Force on Sex Discrimination is working
with each agency to survey and eliminate
sex discrimination from programs and
procedures throughout the Federal gov-
ernment. The Task Force will recom-
mend needed changes in existing laws.
• The Interdepartmental Task Force
on Women Business Owners, coordinated
by the Department of Commerce, has id-
entified barriers to business ownership for
women and has made recommendations
to remove them. On July 10, 1978, I asked
my Cabinet to respond to the Task Force
recommendations.
• The Department of Commerce Office
of Federal Statistical Policy and Stand-
ards was established to coordinate data
collection and to set guidelines and defini-
tions for demographic variables.
During my Administration, other Fed-
eral programs designed to meet the needs
of women have been expanded:
• The Women's Bureau in the Depart-
ment of Labor, which focuses on the
needs of women in the labor force, was up-
graded, giving the Bureau Chief direct ac-
cess to the Secretary of Labor. The
Women's Bureau provides support for the
Interdepartmental Task Force on Women
and the National Advisory Committee for
Women, operates significant programs de-
signed to serve women, and publishes in-
formation on employed women.
• The Federal Women's Program which
is in the Office of the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission, aids Fed-
erally-employed women. In conjunction
with the Federal Women's Task Force on
the U.N. Decade for Women, the Federal
Women's Program is playing a more ac-
tive and visible role in shaping Federal
employment policy.
• The National Advisory Council on
Women's Educational Programs is a Presi-
dentially-appointed council which makes
recommendations to Federal officials on
1642
