Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 5
cluding the evolution of an energy policy ing or defense of a transient stand or
for our Nation.
As we meet at Camp David, no one can
ensure the degree of success which we
might enjoy. The issues are very compli-
cated. The disagreements are deep. Four
wars have not led to peace in that troubled
region of the world. There is no cause for
excessive optimism, but there is also no
cause for despair.
The greatest single factor which causes
me to be encouraged is my sure knowledge
that Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat genuinely want peace. They are
determined to make progress, and so am I.
We will need the encouragement and
the prayers of everyone in our Nation, in
all three nations, throughout the world,
who want success to come from our de-
liberations. Compromises will be manda-
tory. Without them, no progress can be
expected. Flexibility will be the essence
of our hopes. And my own role will be
that of a full partner, not trying to im-
pose the will of the United States on
others, but searching for common ground
on which agreements can be reached and
belief, will be constructive.
There will be a great deal of effort made
to ensure and enhance mutual trust in one
another and to recognize accurately that
we all want the same ultimate goal. There
is no doubt in my mind about this.
I want to express, in closing, my thanks
to these two great leaders for their will-
ingness to come when the political con-
sequences of failure might be very severe
and when the prospects of complete suc-
cess are very remote. We'll do the
best we can, and I fervently ask the sup-
port and prayers of all those who share
with us a hope that we might bring a new
prospect for peace to the Middle East.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. to
reporters assembled on the South Lawn of the
White House.
Leif Erikson Day, 1978
Proclamation 4592. September 5, 1978
searching for exchanges of compromise By the President of the United States
that are mutually advantageous to all na-
tions involved.
I know the seriousness with which
President Sadat and Prime Minister Begin
come to our country, and I have tried to
prepare myself as well as I possibly could
to bring success to these efforts.
It will have to be a mutual thing, and
all of us will enter these discussions with-
out prejudice toward one another, with a
spirit of good will and with the realization
of the sober responsibilities that fall on
us.
Lastly, I would say that we will be
almost uniquely isolated from the press
and from the outside world. My hope is
that this degree of personal interchange,
without the necessity for political postur-
of America
A Proclamation
Stories of brave men battling fearful
odds fire our imaginations. We honor
such men long after the memories of their
adventures have been dimmed by time.
So it is with Leif Erikson. His original
discovery and exploration of North Amer-
ica was the supreme achievement of a race
of men who truly were the masters of the
sea. His voyage enlarged mankind's hori-
zons and pointed the way West for the
others who were to follow.
Today we honor Leif Erikson, and in
honoring him we also honor the human
qualities of imagination, courage, and per-
severance which characterize both his men
1497
