Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
jobs in government, but jobs in the private
sector, permanent jobs.
We still have a long way to go. Many
of our young people, many of those who
belong to minority groups still are not em-
ployed. And we want to be sure that in
the months to come we give them an op-
portunity to expend their one life on Earth
in a productive way and feel that they are
part of society, doing a useful job in their
life, not alienated from society because
they can't get a job they want.
Let me ask you another question. Do
you want a government that will get the
regulatory agencies and government agen-
cies' nose out of the private sector's busi-
ness and let our free enterprise system
work in the United States? [Applause]
Well, that's the kind of government we're
trying to bring you in Washington.
As I got off the plane at the airport a
few minutes ago, I was met by Frank Bor-
man, one of the great heroes of our coun-
try, one of the astronauts that went to the
Moon, now president of Eastern Airlines.
When I came in as President, I prom-
ised that we were going to deregulate the
airline industry, to make sure that we
eliminated the artificial holding up of
prices to those who wanted to fly on our
commercial airlines. We have reduced
those fares tremendously. The number of
passengers has gone up greatly, and the
profits for Eastern Airlines, Delta, Pan
Am, and all the others have gone up as
well.
I'm committed in the future to bring-
ing deregulation to other industries and
make sure the free enterprise system in
our country has a chance to have competi-
tion, which is good for our industry and
also good for consumers. That's another
goal that we've set for ourselves, that if
you'll help us, we're going to meet.
I've got two or three more questions to
ask you.
Do you want a government that works
hard to control the threat of atomic
weapons, which could destroy us all? Do
you? [Applause]
We're negotiating every day to bring
about a good SALT agreement with the
Soviet Union, to cut down the level of
atomic weapons. And the Congress has
already passed a very good nonprolifera-
tion bill which prevents countries who
don't have atomic weapons from having
them in the future.
Two years ago there was a general be-
lief that the atomic genie was out of the
bottle, that nobody could stop the spread
of atomic weapons. But we've been suc-
cessful so far. And I believe that next year
we'll have a chance to approve in the
Congress a SALT agreement that will give
our Nation less atomic weapons but
greater security in the bargain.
And I'd like to ask you another ques-
tion. Do you want to make sure that the
United States is always number one in
military strength? [Applause] That's what
we've got now, and that's what we're go-
ing to keep, because with strength comes
the ability to use our influence in a bene-
ficial way around the world.
Our country is now respected by others.
We are no longer the butt of all the jokes.
We're no longer the target of all the at-
tacks by the small nations, the weak na-
tions, the new nations, the nations whose
people might be brown or yellow or black.
We've spread our influence in a beneficial
way, and we've let our potential adver-
saries, the Soviet Union and others, know
that we're going to stay strong.
But strength is not just military might.
It's also economic strength. It's also po-
litical strength, based on freedom and the
right of each individual person to make
one's own influence felt.
Let me ask you another question. Do
you want a government that can cut
1867
