Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
You and I have also stood together to
enhance our Nation's crucial role in world
affairs.
I believe that our Nation must continue
to have a strong defense. And as long as
I'm in the White House and you give me
your support, our defense capability will
be second to none on Earth. And you can
depend on that.
Our Nation must continue to lead in
the most difficult and important undertak-
ing on this planet-the search for peace.
And we will do that, in the Middle East
and elsewhere throughout the world.
Our Nation, as you know, was damaged
by Watergate, the CIA, Vietnam, and we
lost a lot in the esteem of other people
around the world for us and in the esteem
that American people have always had
for our own Government. But our basic
commitments, the beliefs and ideals on
which our Nation was founded, have not
changed at all.
Our Nation must continue to support
human rights. And I'm proud that our
country stands, not only here but every-
where, for liberty and justice. And I
pledge to you that as long as I'm in the
White House, America will never turn its
back on the struggle for human freedom
and human rights around the world. And
you can depend on that.
There is something clean about Amer-
ica. There is something decent about
America. There's something idealistic
about America. There's something unsel-
fish about America. There's something
strong about America. It's what makes
our people love our country. And I want
to see those basic commitments restored.
And in that restoration will come strength
based on American people themselves,
where those commitments have never
changed in spite of mistakes made in the
past by some of our leaders.
Worldwide human rights questions are
important. And we know that our own
rights, our own freedoms were won in
struggle, and we know that struggle still
continues. It continues for you and me in
the fight to have a fair and responsible la-
bor law reform bill. I'm disappointed that
because of a massive, expensive, com-
pletely distorted propaganda effort, that
the Congress has not yet passed this im-
portant legislation.
Our labor law reform bill is not a grab
for power by the unions, but it's a reach
for justice, justice for American working
men and women which is long overdue.
This is the only piece of legislation that I
personally helped to draft every single
paragraph. It's a reasonable and respon-
sible piece of legislation. Its purpose is to
prevent a small minority of employers
from flagrantly continuing to violate the
law. [Applause] I see very clearly how you
feel about this matter. [Laughter]
Our goal is simply to guarantee the
rights which were promised American
workers 43 years ago in the National La-
bor Relations Act, and I am determined
to reach that goal. It will be at the top of
our legislative priority list for next year
if we don't get it this year. And I want to
be sure that we have legislation of which
you
and I can be proud.
You represent more than a million
Americans. What's always impressed me
is that you've never used your influence
and power to demand a handout. What
you've asked for is jobs, good jobs, sound
jobs, safe jobs, healthy jobs, with reason-
able pay.
Our society honors work. We believe in
work. That's the great strength that we
have as Americans. When I took office less
than 2 years ago, there were 10 million
people in this country who wanted to work
but could not find full-time jobs. Unem-
1547
