Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 26
tried to carve out mutual principles for
agreement, even in the most general lan-
guage, know the difficulty of it. And his
language, which was adopted by the
United Nations, by all the disputing par-
ties, is still our guide in how to make
progress in the future.
At Helsinki, an agreement was signed
by, I believe, 34 nations, spelling out how
we might have more cooperation, more
exchange among nations who were poten-
tial adversaries, and the first international
commitment with specific bounds for the
honoring of the right of human beings to
emigrate from a country, to be part of the
united family, to have at least a modicum
of free speech. And the signatories of that
agreement at Helsinki were expected to
have their activities monitored.
At Belgrade this past year, there was
an international assembly to provide the
first assessment of compliance with the
Helsinki agreement, and Secretary Vance
and I were determined to have the best
possible leader there to represent our
country. He was a foremost spokesman
and established the principle, perma-
nently, I hope, that there is indeed an in-
ternational accountability for compliance
with human rights commitments that
were made at Helsinki.
There is no way nor need to outline the
numbers of special ad hoc commissions
and committees on which Arthur Gold-
berg has served our country, other Presi-
dents. But I look upon him as a man who
still has a long career ahead of him, but
already has exemplified in his personal
and public life principles committed to
basic human rights, to legal, diplomatic,
and political justice, sensitivity about the
needs of those who have been deprived of
the blessings of a modern society that
most of us enjoy, and a man whose own
personal principles have never deviated
from the highest possible standard, and
who has let those principles affect the at-
titude and the reputation of an entire
Nation, the Nation that we love so much.
I would like now to read the citation
for the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
[At this point, the President read the citation,
the text of which follows:]
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL
MEDAL OF FREEDOM TO ARTHUR J. GOLD-
BERG
Arthur J. Goldberg, Secretary of Labor,
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States, United States Representative to
the United Nations, Ambassador at Large and
soldier in World War II. During an eminent
career of almost fifty years, Arthur Goldberg
has shown his deep commitment to individual
human dignity, to peace and to the cause of
human rights. As a practicing attorney and
counsel for the labor movement, a legal scholar,
educator and a public servant, he has dis-
played an extraordinary capacity to bring peo-
ple together, mediate differences, and to help
solve the pressing problems of our age. By com-
bining idealism and vision with wisdom and
common sense, Arthur Goldberg has served his
country well.
Signed, Jimmy Carter, The White
House, Washington, D.C., July 26, 1978.
Arthur, congratulations. I'm very proud
of you.
MR. GOLDBERG. Mr. President, Secre-
tary Vance, Under Secretary Christo-
pher, Counselor Nimetz, Mr. Hansell,
Mr. Chairman-my chairman-and Co-
chairman, Dante Fascell and Senator Pell;
this eminent member of the National Se-
curity Council, Bob Hunter; the Assist-
ant Secretary of State, George Vest; the
Deputy Assistant for Management, Ben
Read; and many others-I should like to
single out three, if you don't mind, of my
colleagues, Mrs. Guilbert, Mrs. Passe-
mante, Miss West, and the one who was
on my tail all the time at Belgrade, Bob
Oliver, the Director of the Commission;
ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, my wife, my children—
two of whom are stranded in Alaska with
1339
