Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cial impact. It will tend to move jobs
and people and opportunities and growth
down to the formerly abandoned central
city areas or those that were being aban-
doned in a slow and inexorable way.
I hope that this Government action
and I expect this Government action will
take root in the private sector and that
that might be an additional commitment
on the part of business and industry, pro-
fessional leaders, to take the same kind
of action to strengthen the backbone of
our major cities and to build up jobs and
further investments there.
The second Executive order will di-
rect all Federal agencies to buy more
goods and services from areas of our coun-
try that have a high unemployment rate.
This, of course, will, without costing the
Government any more money, help to
correct a very serious deficiency. In many
instances, as you well know, the highest
unemployment rate exists in our neglected
or deteriorating urban centers-not al-
ways, but in general. And I've asked the
Federal agencies to report to me every 6
months on the progress they have made
in carrying out this order to purchase
goods where the unemployment rate is
high.
The third Executive order will help
us to assess the impact of legislative pro-
posals, not creating massive paperwork
analyses, but just to make sure that when
action is taken by the Congress, some-
times in haste, sometimes in committees
that are not directly responsible for urban
problems, that the inadvertent damage to
downtown city areas can be avoided,
quite often with a substantial saving in
actual tax expenditures and an increase
in efficiency at the same time.
And the fourth and final Executive or-
der will create officially an Interagency
Coordinating Council, not with a new
bureaucracy, but a mechanism by which
for the first time, really, we can continue
close consultation among the major agen-
cies in Government responsible for the
solution of urban problems.
Jack Watson on my staff is already
working with key leaders in Housing and
Urban Development, in Labor, Com-
merce, HEW, Interior, and other major
Federal agencies responsible for programs
that in the past have not been adequately
coordinated.
As Governor, I was sometimes blessed,
always aware of the presence of the Fed-
eral Regional Office in Atlanta, just a few
blocks from the State Capitol. But quite
often those individual Federal agency rep-
resentatives would not or could not work
together. I now see in retrospect that they
could not work together, because you can't
expect a regional office to coordinate their
efforts if there's an absence of coordina-
tion in Washington.
They cannot correct defects or mistakes
made in Washington. And we are being
sure that from now on, as a city has a
serious problem, that here in the environ-
ment around the White House, led by
Jack Watson, those different agencies that
in the past in good conscience have
gone
in different directions because they have
different responsibilities, now coordinate
their work to make sure that their own
efforts are magnified, not duplicated, be-
cause we do have limited facilities and
limited money to expend.
Well, these Executive orders will bring
us closer to a coherent, coordinated, more
effective urban policy.
This is not the end of our efforts, but I
think we've already had tangible demon-
strations of the benefits of what we've
undertaken so far. And a lot of the credit
goes to you from Federal agencies and
from communities all over our Nation
who have confidence in American people,
who recognize that our lifestyles, our life
patterns, are not going to be dramatically
changed, that we'll live lifetimes and even
1428
