Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
don't have any competition yet-and
those areas that are easy.
Now, even in SALT I, in SALT II, you
can make a case, in my judgment, that
those agreements, to a great extent, have
been vulnerable to the charge that even
getting together forces a very careful, ob-
sessive preoccupation with every varia-
tion in the respective balance. Any
asymmetry in the static indicators on
either side are then scrutinized by our
negotiators. And if we don't have 10
green peas and we got 4 white ones-
and the bean counts, everybody suddenly
says we have to be a mirrored image of
every conceivable theoretical capability
of the other side.
So, the rough equivalence that one can
have without total symmetrical relation-
ship is often put aside. And the result of
SALT I and even SALT II, to a great
extent, one can argue, is to push up devel-
opment and production in many systems.
Now, the problem today is that our polit-
ical courage and leadership and imagi-
nation has not kept pace with the mind-
boggling acceleration of technical devel-
opments, technological breakthroughs.
In 1970, when the United States had
the leadership on MIRV development,
many of us in the Congress went to the
President and we went to others and we
tried to get an agreement with the Soviet
Union to not MIRV their weapons. And
we couldn't get an agreement on that.
We couldn't do it. The Soviets then have
gone to MIRVing, MIRVing their heavy
systems.
Now, today we meet and say that our
land-based systems are vulnerable be-
cause the Soviets are MIRVing, and now
we got to have a mobile system, the M-X,
to deal with that threat. That wasn't cre-
ated by arms control; it was created be-
cause of a lack of an agreement. Now,
hopefully, SALT II will set the stage for
meaningful, substantial reductions in
SALT III, as President Carter has very
properly made reference to. And then,
and only then, can we hope for substan-
tial reductions.
In SALT II, under the tentative out-
line of the agreement being contemplated,
it would be the first time the Soviet Union
would be called upon to dismantle some
300 of their already deployed land-based
systems, which is about 10 percent of
their current land-based force and not an
insignificant thing. But they will be tak-
ing out the old and tired systems and not
the new ones. And if you can criticize this
agreement, that it isn't enough arms con-
trol-but you certainly can't criticize the
President of the United States, in my
judgment, for not doing everything in his
power to making it as meaningful as
possible.
Q. I guess what really concerns me is
that we're caught in this theoretical think-
ing. And the other thing is that we must
remember that 30 years ago we were the
ones who exploded that first atomic bomb,
and the arms race commenced at that
point. And I think that it's up to us to say
no. And I'm not very confident in this
SALT III and SALT IV and SALT V
and SALT VI-you know, always hop-
ing. I think that as long as we feel that
we have somebody feels that they have
to maintain an edge, we're caught. And I
think that we have to admit that we're
caught.
DEFENSE SPENDING
The other question that I would like
to ask you is that you made a statement
that the military strength of the U.S. must
begin with a strong economy. And what I
would like to hear you speak to for a
minute or two is what is the relationship
between defense spending and inflation?
SENATOR CULVER. Well, the question
is, our strong defense, as I mentioned in
2205
