Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
matter of losing national face for them to
modify their positions. Whereas when we
were enclosed at Camp David, you didn't
have the public esteem involved every
time a negotiating point was yielded.
It's just like a business and labor con-
tract dispute being conducted at long dis-
tance through the public news media.
And this is what we've had to deal with.
But there's a limited amount of time
that Secretary Vance can spend on the
Mideast peace treaty, as important as it
is. We are now facing final negotiations
on SALT. We've got the Nicaraguan
problems, Nigerian problems. We are try-
ing to work on trade matters. I'm going
to have a meeting in Guadaloupe with
the leaders of France and Germany and
Great Britain. We have numerous other
things, as you can well imagine, to do.
And Secretary Vance and I have spent
hundreds and hundreds of hours trying
to bring these two nations together on
differences that now are almost com-
pletely insignificant, compared to what
they've already resolved.
Both nations deserve a lot of credit.
I'm not criticizing them, because I know
the sensitivity of them. But I'm very frus-
trated at this point, and I hope that Sec-
retary Vance has better news from Israel
for me than I acquired from him at noon.
Maybe one more question, and then I'll
leave you to your work.
ECONOMIC ADVISERS
Q. Mr. President, this is really a two-
part question. In the case of economic
matters, have you or do you intend to ap-
point a single spokesman to speak for the
administration? And in the area of my
own particular interest, in commending
you for your posture on deregulation, do
you also intend to appoint a single spokes-
man to talk with the business community
about deregulation?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a hard ques-
tion to answer. Mike Blumenthal has al-
ways been my financial spokesman, and I
think if you had to pick out one person,
he would be the spokesman on economic
matters. But at this point, Alfred Kahn
has a very important and direct relation-
ship with me on everything that concerns
anti-inflation. And, of course, in business
matters, trade and so forth, it's Juanita
Kreps.
There's no incompatibility among these
groups. And I think we have, and you've
observed, I'm sure, in the last few months,
a much more consistent administration
policy being promulgated to the public
through the press. But I really have a pref-
erence in my own method of administra-
tion of dealing with several people. I don't
like to have just one person who comes to
me and reports a consensus from a group.
I prefer to have advice from different
sources inside and outside the govern-
ment.
As far as my personal economic advice
is concerned, Charlie Schultze is the one
I meet with frequently and regularly. He's
a part of my staff itself. And I would say
that he and Alfred Kahn are in that cate-
gory. You're sitting next to the man who
generally gives me the documents and
gives me his final assessment, and that's
Stu Eizenstat.
I'm not trying to confuse the issue, but
I would say as far as a public statement
on financial matters and economic mat-
ters, if I had to choose one person, it
would be Mike Blumenthal. But Alfred
Kahn is now the foremost spokesman on
anti-inflation matters itself.
On deregulation, it varies so much, be-
cause from one agency to another, most of
the regulatory agencies themselves are in-
dependent bodies and report legally more
to the Congress than they do to me. I can
help to shape their basic policy by ap-
pointments to those boards—as is the case
2242
