Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
on every cheap, tinhorn dictatorship in
the world. We're supporting human
rights. And as long as I'm in the White
House, we'll continue to do so.
I don't believe there is a national leader
on Earth who can now spend a full day
without asking himself or herself, "How
does my own administration, how does my
own nation measure up in the opinion of
our citizens or those around the world in
protecting basic human rights?" And this
applies not only in the totalitarian govern-
ments that will stay that way for many
years in the future, but it applies to those
countries, many, several at least in Latin
America, that are now changing from a
totalitarian dictatorship into a free and
open democratic system.
This is a good trend. And I believe that
we've now raised the banner whereby we
can once again be proud that our Na-
tion's Government stands for the same
principles that the citizens have always
espoused and which were the foundation
for our Government and our Nation 200
years ago.
The last point I'd like to make is this:
We have become, as Fritz Mondale said,
a nation committed not only to peace for
our own people, but a nation committed
to peace for others. I thank God that
since I've been President, not a single
American soldier has shed blood in a
foreign country. And I hope I leave of-
fice with that record.
We've become involved, at consider-
able political risk, in trying to negotiate
peace in other parts of the world. Secre-
tary Vance earlier this week was in South
Africa, meeting there with leaders of four
other Western nations-France, England,
West Germany, Canada-to try to induce
the South African Government to sup-
port peace, democracy, majority rule, one-
person-one-vote principles in the nation of
Namibia and also the nation of Rhodesia.
He left there to go to the Soviet Union,
and he's now negotiating with Foreign
Minister Gromyko and President Brezh-
nev, trying to bring back to me response
to proposals that would secure an effec-
tive and adequate SALT agreement to
remove the threat of nuclear weapons
that endangers the lives of all those on
Earth. And I need Wendy Anderson and
I need the whole Democratic group to
help me next year get it ratified.
Warren Christopher, the Deputy Sec-
retary of State, is in Greece. We are trying
to secure peace on the island of Cyprus
and to eliminate the animosity that existed
for several years between Greece and
Turkey, our allies.
I've personally become involved, as you
know, in trying to negotiate a peace in the
Holy Land between Israel and Egypt. We
had good success at Camp David. But we
only formed a framework or an outline
for peace. Many differences still exist.
I have found the last 2 weeks that it's
much more difficult to negotiate the de-
tails of a peace treaty than it was a gen-
eral outline of a peace treaty. And it's
exceptionally difficult when the Prime
Minister and President each are thousands
of miles away, rather than just a few
yards away from me and away from each
other. But we are being persistent in this
effort.
The Israeli delegation has now left to
go back to Israel for a report to the Cabi-
net the first of next week, consultations
with Prime Minister Begin, and to re-
ceive new instructions from their own
country.
I met yesterday afternoon with For-
eign Minister Dayan and Defense Minis-
ter Weizman. Last night, late, I met for
3½ hours with the Israeli delegation to
try to go into details of the differences
that still remain between themselves and
the Egyptians. This morning at 6:45 I
1832
