Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
administration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:59 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Gates of the Arctic National Monument
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of De-
cember 5, 1978.
Glacier Bay National
Monument
Proclamation 4618. December 1, 1978
ENLARGING THE GLACIER BAY NATIONAL
MONUMENT
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Glacier Bay National Monument was
created by Presidential Proclamation in
1925 and was enlarged in 1939 and again
in 1955. It protects the great tidewater
glaciers and a dramatic range of plant
communities. The enlargement accom-
plished by this Proclamation furthers the
protection of the array of geological and
ecological interests in the area.
This addition includes the northwest-
erly side of Mount Fairweather, the high-
est peak in this part of Alaska, and the
Grand Plateau Glacier, both significant
to students of glaciology.
The Alsek River corridor provides the
only pass through the coastal mountain
range for 120 miles. This is the route by
which large mammals first entered this
isolated area and is used by a significant
percentage of the Alaska bald eagle pop-
ulation en route to the Klukwan area
where they winter.
The addition also protects two botan-
ically significant areas. In the hills flank-
ing Grand Plateau Glacier live the oldest
plant communities in southeast Alaska
which survive because the area escaped
both glaciation and inundation. Also im-
portant to the study of ecological succes-
sion are the mature aquatic vegetative
communities of the pre-neoglacial lakes
in the Deception Hills area.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, biological, and other
phenomena enumerated above supports
now, as it has in the past, a unique sub-
sistence culture of the local residents. The
continued existence of this culture, which
depends on subsistence hunting, and its
availability for study, enhances the his-
toric and scientific value of the natural
objects protected herein because of the
ongoing interaction of the subsistence cul-
ture with those objects. Accordingly, the
opportunity for local residents to engage
in subsistence hunting is a value to be
protected and will continue under the ad-
ministration of the area added to the Gla-
cier Bay National Monument by this
Proclamation.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes the
President, in his discretion, to declare by
public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures and
other objects of historic or scientific inter-
est that are situated upon the lands owned
2125
