Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
Order may also receive such travel ex-
penses, including per diem in lieu of sub-
sistence, which are permitted by law.
1-306. The functions of the President
under the Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) which are ap-
plicable to the Commission, except that
of reporting annually to the Congress,
shall be performed by the Administrator
of General Services.
1-4. Final Report and Termination.
1-401. The final report required by
Section 1-202 of this Order shall be trans-
mitted not later than one year from the
date of this Order.
1-402. The Commission shall termi-
nate one year from the date of this Order.
1-403. Executive Order No. 12062 of
May 26, 1978, is revoked.
The White House,
December 14, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:32 a.m., December 14, 1978]
Meeting With the President of
the Commission of the European
Communities
White House Statement. December 14, 1978
President Carter met today with Roy
Jenkins, President of the Commission of
the European Communities, at 11 a.m.
for about an hour. The talks, which both
President Carter and President Jenkins
view as an integral part of the close and
ongoing consultative process between the
United States and the European Com-
munities, were cordial and productive.
Acting Secretary of State Warren
Christopher; Zbigniew Brzezinski, As-
sistant to the President for National Se-
curity Affairs; Under Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs Richard Cooper,
and Deane Hinton, United States Am-
bassador to the European Communities,
and others participated in the discussion
for the United States. On the Com-
munities side, they were joined by Messrs.
Fernand Spaak, Head of the Delegation
of the European Communities Commis-
sion in the United States; Emile Noel,
Secretary General of the European Com-
munities Commission; Crispin Tickell,
Head of Cabinet to the President of the
European Communities Commission, and
others. Among major topics which Presi-
dents Carter and Jenkins discussed were
the following:
the
1. International Trade. They welcomed
progress being achieved in Geneva on
negotiation of a multilateral trade agree-
ment. They expressed the hope that sub-
stantial and balanced agreement would
be reached before the end of the year.
President Carter expressed his determina-
tion to seek congressional action to assure
continued application of the waiver on
countervailing duties. Both President
Carter and President Jenkins agreed that
the success of the negotiations would pro-
mote economic recovery and the extension
of international trade between both in-
dustrial and developing countries, thus
raising living standards and increasing
jobs.
2. European Monetary System. Presi-
dent Carter indicated that he viewed the
European Monetary System (EMS) as
an important step toward the European
integration that the United States has
long supported. The President of the Eu-
ropean Commission emphasized that the
creation of such a system was designed
not only to establish a zone of monetary
stability in Europe but also to contribute
to greater stability in the world monetary
system as a whole, of which a strong dol-
lar is an essential part. He underlined
that the European Monetary System was
2245
