Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And I should like to ask at this time what
government actions are planned to assist
the consumer in restoring some of that
confidence.
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Heslin, I know
you've done a great job in Connecticut in
protecting consumer interests, and I'll try
to do the same thing from the White
House on a nationwide basis.
One of our top priority legislative ef-
forts in 1979 will be to pass hospital cost
containment legislation. As you know, it
was approved by the Senate. It was
blocked by the special interest groups in
the House, in committees. And I think an
arousal of public interest in this legisla-
tion will prove that it is needed and will
make our efforts successful.
In some major States, I'd say notably
New York State, also Connecticut, of
course, we have had good, proven results
there when State legislation on hospital
cost containment has been implemented.
The hospitals' medical-care providers
have not been suffering, and consumers
have benefited greatly. In New York
State, as a matter of fact, last year hos-
pital costs actually went down 6 percent.
And this is a very fine achievement and,
of course, Connecticut had very good suc-
cess as well.
I think food prices will be much more
stable than they were in the past. We will
monitor very closely any sort of interna-
tional decisions to make sure that infla-
tion is not pressed upon us too highly.
My own guess is compatible with most
economists', and that is that food prices
will not increase in 1979 nearly so much as
they did in 1978.
So, in my decisions as President, I'll try
to do the best I can to moderate food
price increases, to stabilize price levels,
and on hospital cost containment, go all
out, with your help, to pass beneficial
legislation.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
President.
Mr. President, do you have a conclud-
ing statement that you would care to
make?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Bob, I do, very
briefly. This is an effort that has not been
successful in spite of many attempts in the
past to control inflation in our country. I
am determined, as I said earlier, to be
persistent and tough in my own leader-
ship role in controlling inflation from the
responsibilities that I have as President
of our country.
I need to have voluntary aid and sup-
port in many hundreds of decisions made
by private citizens in our country, lead-
ers in labor, leaders in business. We are
In food prices, of course, this is some-
thing that's very difficult to regulate. And
I don't have any intention of imposing asking mayors, county officials, Gover-
price standards on food. This would be a
very serious mistake, in my opinion. The
market forces, however, on the worldwide
basis, will determine food costs in our
country.
I think it is accurate to say that in
some of the major areas of the world, re-
cent estimates show that there will be
bumper crops this year. Our own Nation
has had the best corn crop in history.
Stocks of food in storage are fairly high.
They are primarily under the control of
farmers.
nors, and others to support our program.
And I believe that if we can arouse the
interest of Americans, which already ex-
ists, accentuate this interest, let them
know that the fight is not hopeless, that
we can succeed.
This is a major battle, and as Alfred
Kahn has said and you have said, many
others have said, it's a battle that we can-
not afford to lose. And I do not intend to
lose this battle against inflation in our
country. And I need all the help I can
get, and I'm sure, with your help, we will
succeed.
1970
