Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Group. We have obviously a fine Secre-
tary of Commerce, Juanita Kreps. Alfred
Kahn is giving me advice on our anti-
inflation effort. And I think we've got a
team spirit now, working with Charlie
Schultze and others, that can assure that
we have a well-balanced and a closely co-
ordinated effort.
You are at liberty to interrelate with this
group individually or collectively, and I
would certainly appreciate your continu-
ing to do so.
In closing, let me say this: I need your
increased help and cooperation. We do
not anticipate a recession next year. We
don't see any basic imbalances that in the
past have preceded a recessionary period.
Inventories are in good shape. Recent
statistics on housing construction still
maintain a very high level in that region
of our economy. We have, I think, very
good and stable results in retail sales.
We've got another $20 billion in tax cuts
coming in about 3 weeks, which should
revitalize some commitments to the fu-
ture. But there are predictions of reces-
sions from varied sources which I think
can become a self-fulfilling prophecy un-
less the facts are described accurately to
the American people, unless we show the
innate confidence that I feel exists in your
minds as well as it does in my own.
Our Nation is strong. We had a Cabi-
net meeting Monday morning, and there
was a general consensus there that if we
have made one consistent error in eco-
nomic predictions, it was to underestimate
the economic strength and the growth po-
tential of our country.
I might say that just the last few hours,
we have promulgated the final regula-
tions on our voluntary wage and price
standards. You'll have a chance to assess
those thoroughly. I'm not familiar with
the details. The general principles are
those that I have approved. And I hope
that now that that has been done, that
every one of you, without exception, and
all those that listen to your voice and
whom you can influence, will give me your
pledge of compliance with the voluntary
wage and price standards.
A number of you have already done so,
even though you had not seen the final,
conclusive interpretation of the guidelines.
But there's no excuse now for you to de-
lay, and it would add a great deal to me
and to my influence in controlling infla-
tion if you would do so. If there are some
details or portions of the regulations
which you find not completely in accord-
ance with your desires, I hope that you
will overlook that or accept it in our
commitment to improve the stability of
our own economy.
I need your help in continuing to de-
sign modifications to the anti-inflation
program as we go along. With experience
I'm sure there will be these kinds of
changes to be made, and I need your con-
tinued counsel and your beneficial influ-
ence.
Very briefly, this describes some of the
points that I wanted to make to you.
We've made some progress. We've got a
long way to go. Our top priority is anti-
inflation. You have helped in many ways.
Now is the time for you to help much
more specifically. And I know the hun-
dreds, the tens of thousands of letters that
are being sent out by you personally and
by business organizations to which you be-
long will have a great impact. But your
own personal influence and a flat state-
ment that your company will comply with
the wage and price guideline standards
will be the greatest and best thing you
can do.
John DeButts has asked me to yield the
floor to him at this point, and I'll be glad
to answer just a couple of questions, re-
lying on my advisers to help me with the
answers.
John.
2238
