Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
been the chairman of the House Budget
Committee. There's not a more responsi-
ble, difficult job that could have been
awarded him by the other Members of
Congress, and he's done a superb job in
this. I'm very grateful to you for letting me
have him in Washington.
Toby Moffett serves on the Government
Operations Committee, responsible for
Government reorganization, and Toby
has the reputation of being one of those
Members of Congress who really keeps his
foot, one in Washington, one in his own
district, takes care of his own constitu-
ents, and helps Presidents and the rest
of the Nation as well.
Bill Cotter-in the South, people would
think he's my brother, but, you see, he's
not. [Laughter] He serves on the very pow-
erful Ways and Means Committee. And
because of his superb ability and his grow-
ing seniority, he's in a position to help
you and me in the future. Health, welfare,
taxation, energy, many other crucial sub-
jects come before the Ways and Means
Committee, and this is a very great credit
to him and to you.
I'd also like to mention Chris Dodd.
Perhaps above all other committees, the
one that decides which legislation is seri-
ously considered by the 435 Members of
the House, which legislation is called up
first, which legislation can be amended,
the extent of the amendments, it's the
Rules Committee. And service on the
| Rules Committee is a great honor for a
Member of the House of Representatives
and a great credit for the State which
sent him to Congress. And I want to
congratulate Chris Dodd on doing such a
fine job in this important position.
in
Bill Ratchford, scheduled to go to Con-
gress next January, has already proven
Connecticut that he's an expert on the
problems of our senior citizens. But that's
not all. He rode on the airplane here with
me, and I asked him, "What is the most
important issue that you would like me
to mention?" And he said, "I would like
to be known as the man who, when I come
to Washington next year, is going to help
you, Mr. President, to control inflation in
our country." You couldn't have a better
platform than that.
It almost becomes a personal thing for
me when I mention the next person that
I'd like to talk about. If there is one man
who, ever since I have known him, exem-
plifies in the finest way the rare word
"statesman," it's your Senator, Abraham
Ribicoff.
He's a man of great courage, and there
may have been times, even since I've been
in the White House, when he has cast a
vote that was not popular among many
people in Connecticut. But as time has
gone by, his sound judgment and his
knowledge of domestic and foreign affairs
has proven him to be right. He runs the
committee responsible for all Government
reorganization. And I would say that
above all other Members of the Senate,
he has helped me most in my dealing with
the Middle East crisis. And I could not
have been successful in Camp David had
it not been for the leadership and the
courage and the knowledge of Abraham
Ribicoff, and I want to thank him again.
Now I want to say a word about my
own administration. [Laughter]
Part of a family life is teamwork. I've
not been President very long; as you know,
I haven't been in politics very long. But
I've tried to bring to the White House the
kind of attitude that would make you
proud of our Government once again.
There was a time, 2, 3, 4 years ago,
when the people of our Nation lost con-
fidence in our Government because of the
war in Vietnam, because of Watergate,
because of the CIA revelations. But we've
tried to tackle those serious problems in an
open
and effective way, depending on you,
1889
