Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 21
with her influence. I'm very proud of her.
I'd like to mention just a few things
briefly that are on my mind this morning
as I talk to you as President of your
country.
All of us, I believe, in this audience
realize that agriculture provides the in-
dustry that's the basic strength of our Na-
tion. In the last 21 months or so, I've had
an opportunity as a new President to an-
alyze the strategic balance that exists be-
tween our country on the one hand and
the others nations of the Earth on the
other.
We believe, in fact we know that we
have a superior position in politics, in gov-
ernment, economics, military might. But
there are a lot of nations who compete
with us in those varying aspects of inter-
national life. The one sound, stable, un-
changing advantage that we have over all
others is the land that God gave us, over
which we act as stewards. Our produc-
tivity in agriculture is increasingly im-
portant now. But in the future, it gives us
an assurance of a good life, an assurance
of a beneficial impact and influence in
other nations that's one of the proudest
possessions of myself as President, of other
members of our government, and indeed
of the Western free world.
We cannot only correct many of our
economic problems with our tremendous
agricultural production, but we can use
this influence to benefit the lives of many
others. I think all of you know that in
January of 1977, when I became Presi-
dent, the farm families of this country
were in trouble. The people in Georgia,
where I live, many of the people in Kan-
sas, as well, were discouraged.
There were some predictions that agri-
culture in America was facing another de-
pression, where the low relative income of
American farm families was going to be
even lower. Prices had hit the bottom; ex-
ports were faltering; the Government was
becoming more deeply intrusive in the
lives of farm families, in the marketing of
wheat, corn, basic feed grains, sorghums.
The farm families quite often sold their
crops cheap that went into the massive
grain elevators. Commodity prices were
manipulated. Sometimes prices went up,
and the beneficiaries were not the farmers,
because they had lost control over the food
that they had produced.
That's been changed. The new farm
legislation supported by your own Mem-
bers of Congress, of course, went into ef-
fect almost exactly a year ago. Farm
family income has gone up in 1
year $7
billion, between 20 and 25 percent more.
We've tried to get government out of the
lives of farmers. We've increased farm
storage tremendously to let the farmers
themselves have much more control over
when they market their products, so that
they can get the benefits of the changes in
farm prices. And at the same time, we've
tried to stabilize those prices.
We see American farm production con-
tinuing to go up. This year in the United
States, the average corn production per
acre is 100 bushels. At the same time, we
don't feel that we need to worry about this
good production, because we're working
as hard as possible to increase the markets
for American farm products.
Last year, we set an all-time record,
even in dollars, with very low prices, as
you well remember. We exported $24
billion worth of farm products in 1977.
In 1978 we'll beat that record. We'll go to
$26.6 billion in farm exports.
In just a few minutes, not coinciden-
tally in Wichita, I'm going to sign a new
agricultural export bill that will greatly
enhance American farm export levels in
the years to come.
These kinds of changes that have been
made in the Government help us all.
They're typical of the approach to
American farm life of the Democratic
1815
