Oct. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Domestic Clothespin Industry
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. October 2, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 203(b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my de-
termination that import relief for the U.S.
clothespin industry is not in the national
economic interest, and explaining the rea-
sons for my decision.
The White House,
October 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
CLOTHESPINS FROM THE PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF CHINA (PRC)
As required under sections 406(b) and
203(b) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974, I
am transmitting this report to Congress
setting forth the action I will take with re-
spect to clothespins covered by the affirm-
ative finding on August 3, 1978, of the
U.S. International Trade Commission
(USITC) under section 406 (a) (3) of the
Trade Act. As my action differs from that
recommended by the USITC, I have in-
cluded the reasons for my decision.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those considera-
tions set forth in section 202(c) of the
Trade Act of 1974, I have determined
that import relief for the domestic clothes-
pin industry would not be in the national
economic interest for the following
reasons:
1. The imposition of import relief would
not be an effective means to promote ad-
justment in the industry. While imports
from the PRC have become an increas-
ingly important component of U.S. im-
ports, other foreign sources still accounted
for seventy-three percent of all U.S. im-
ports in 1977. Foreign sources, other than
the PRC, are able to supply clothespins to
the U.S. market at prices significantly be-
low the prices charged by U.S. producers.
Moreover, existing foreign capacity would
not be a limitation on foreign producer
ability to increase shipments to the U.S.
Thus, third country suppliers would likely
fill any excess U.S. demand resulting from
a limitation of any kind on imports of
clothespins from the PRC.
2. It should be noted that the USITC
has instituted an investigation under sec-
tion 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 to de-
termine whether clothespins from all for-
eign suppliers are being imported into the
United States in such quantities as to be
a substantial cause of serious injury, or
threat thereof, to the domestic industry. A
determination on this case by the USITC
is due by November 21, 1978. The import
problems facing the domestic clothespin
industry will be considered further within
the context of this pending escape clause
case.
Domestic Clothespin Industry
Memorandum From the President.
October 2, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination under Sections
406 and 202 of the Trade Act; Clothespins
from the People's Republic of China
Pursuant to sections 406 (b) and 202 of
the Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618), I
have determined the action I will take
with respect to the report of the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC), transmitted to me on Au-
gust 3, 1978, concerning the results of its
investigation of a petition for import relief
filed by the Clothespin and Veneer Prod-
1698
