Nov. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
correct economic problems that we our-
selves have now identified so clearly.
The last thing I want to say to you is
that I need your help. There's no way
that a President or a Congress or a joint
President and Congress or just labor
unions or the National Association of
Manufacturers or the National Cham-
ber of Commerce can solve the inflation
problem alone. A lot of people look to
you for leadership in every one of the
States represented here. And your clear
voice speaking out in consonance with our
own, to the extent that my own beliefs
and commitments are compatible with
yours, can be very, very helpful. I think
that public officials, Governors, other
elected officials at the State level, mayors,
county officials can be very, very effective
in dealing with the consequences of infla-
tion.
The more we see each other moving
against this threat, the more it strength-
ens each person's resolve. Politically it's a
crucial question. If we fail to deal with
our well-recognized economic problems,
there will be an inevitable and justifiable
adverse reaction among the American
people, who look to us for leadership and
for proper service. We can't continue to
inflict the American people with rapidly
increasing inflation and expect them to
have confidence in us in the future.
So, it has the advantage, a successful
campaign against inflation, of not only
benefiting our Nation, not only being a re-
sponsibility that is on us individually and
collectively, but also a great test of our
worth as public servants who have been
chosen by our fellow Americans to serve.
I don't intend to fail. It's a challenge
that I accept without hesitation. It's part
of
my responsibility. And with your help
I know I'll be successful. As I said to
begin with, we're all in it together, and
I'm proud to acknowledge that fact.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:31 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Alfred E.
Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation,
also spoke to the group.
United States Arms
Transfer Levels
Statement by the President.
November 29, 1978
Conventional arms transfer restraint is
an important objective of this administra-
tion and the Congress. To ensure U.S.
leadership and to supplement existing
legislation, I established for the first time
a set of quantitative and qualitative
standards by which arms transfer re-
quests considered by this Government
would be judged. The principal consider-
ation in the application of these standards
is whether the transfer in question pro-
motes our security and the security of our
close friends.
I am pleased to announce that this
Government has kept its pledge to take
the leadership in restraining arms sales.
Under the ceiling I established, U.S. Gov-
ernment transfers of weapons and related
items to countries other than NATO,
Japan, Australia, and New Zealand,
which totaled $8.54 billion in FY 1978,
were reduced by 8 percent (or approxi-
mately $700 million measured in constant
2094
