Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ord again. And I can predict to you, as
I did earlier today, that the net farm in-
come in this country this year will go up
25 percent, with a net additional amount
of money going into the farmers' pockets,
after expenses, of $52 or $6 billion.
Now, I know farmers, because they're
in my family and they're my neighbors at
home. Farmers don't want a handout.
Farmers want a chance to take a chance
in farming. But they want stable prices.
They don't want government to disrupt
their lives. They want to have an ability to
get a loan with good collateral and face
the future, based on their own commit-
ment and their own hard work.
One more word. So, let me say once
again that I'm thankful for what you've
done. And I hope that you'll let me hear
from you about how our Government,
your Government in Washington, can be
even more helpful to you as we make agri-
culture in our Nation continue to be the
most important strategic asset of the
greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:13 p.m. after
touring the warehouse and observing a tobacco
auction. He was introduced by Jim Graham,
North Carolina commissioner of agriculture.
I think we've got a good partnership Death of Pope Paul VI
now between government and agricul-
ture. And I don't think it's any accident
that this year the tobacco harvest will be
the best and the most profitable, perhaps,
in the history of North Carolina. Opening
prices for tobacco were 35 or 40 cents
higher than they were last year, maybe
the highest in the history of our country.
A lot of it is, because of you, good quality
production. Many of you signed up for
the four-leaf program. Many of you
didn't sign up and left those bottom four
leaves voluntarily. We're getting the rep-
utation of being producers of tobacco who
are interested in quality, and that will pay
rich dividends for you in the future.
Well, I'm proud of you and I'm proud
of the partnership that we've formed.
You've got a great commissioner of agri-
culture, as you well know. I was bragging
about him at lunch. I'll let him tell you
what I said. But anyone who can bray
like a donkey and be as good a commis-
sioner as he is, provides a fine, clear voice
when he speaks of North Carolina in
Washington. He's the only commissioner
of agriculture I know that can let his
voice be heard in Washington without us-
ing a telephone. [Laughter]
Statement by the President. August 6, 1978
I was deeply saddened to learn of the
death of Pope Paul VI, a man whose life
and works have served me personally as a
source of great moral inspiration. As a
man of peace and profound spirituality,
he will be greatly missed not only by all
Roman Catholics but by all people, what-
ever their religious convictions.
Of Pope Paul's many contributions, two
stand out for me at this sad moment:
first, his untiring efforts in the ecumenical
movement. Not only was he inspired in
the cause of humanity to pursue greater
unity of purpose within the Catholic
Church, but also among all other faiths.
Second, Pope Paul's world travels, at no
small expense to his own physical well-
being, exemplified his role of pilgrim, car-
rying the message of peace and love to the
far corners of the world, including an in-
spiring visit to the United States.
During his 15 years as Pontiff, the voice
of Paul VI served as a clear, moral beacon
to a troubled world. With his passing, we
have all been deprived of a strong voice
for reason, for moderation, and for peace.
1392
