Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
my
initial statement, begins with a strong
economy at home. And secondly, in that
regard, what is the relationship of defense
spending to inflation? Well, clearly, de-
fense spending, however much is neces-
sary, is, relatively speaking, the most in-
flationary dollar you can spend, because
there's no market-[applause]. And the
reason for that is that there is no market
for those goods other than a battlefield or
a warehouse or a motorpool or wherever
it might be.
Now, secondly, as far as the defense
budget's effect on the economy, we hear
much about job creation. But if we're
going to spend Government money to cre-
ate jobs, there are far more labor-intensive
ways to do that, in education and trans-
portation and health policy. And defense
spending is not targeted to areas of
chronic unemployment, but it's rather
mostly white collar and highly technical
people in a relative sense.
Now, having said that, I do think that
when we speak about security, we have
to keep in mind that it's more than just
the defense budget. It is the health of our
people; it's their morale; it's their political
confidence. And it's most importantly the
economy, and I think the great challenge
that President Carter, of course, has is
how to honor, really, essentially, three
commitments: one, in a tentative way to
increase our defense budget in coopera-
tion with our European allies; secondly,
in cooperation with our European allies,
to pledge to reduce inflation and the defi-
cit in the United States of America. And
it's very hard to reconcile all these inher-
ently conflicting objectives and goals,
although they're all equally admirable in
many ways in a relative sense.
But clearly the 3-percent commit-
ment, for example, that's been discussed
about-and in fairness to the President,
he hasn't made a final decision, it's my
understanding; I'm sure he'd want to
speak to this but the 3-percent commit-
ment may conflict with the other two ob-
jectives. And even your question of how
much you have available in real growth
in the budget to spend on defense is
ironically related to just how successful
you are in dampening down inflation and
reducing your deficit, because when we
speak of real growth, we're talking about
real growth over the rate of inflation.
If you anticipate the rate of inflation
to be at 7 percent, you want 3 percent
real growth. You've got one figure. If you
can get inflation down to 6 percent,
you've got 4 percent real growth with the
same budget figures and targets.
So, these are moving targets and they're
very elusive and they are interrelated. But
clearly, I think it's one of the great chal-
lenges, of course, to the President to make
these allocations of domestic resource
recommendations in the document of the
Federal budget, so that our true security
interest is truly being advanced and the
appropriate proportions for defense and
the domestic and social needs of America
are respected.
Q. Well, with all theory aside, I would
just like to say, let it
Q. Mr. Chairman, there are a lot of
people here and the President of the
United States. How about getting her off
and letting us hear from the President?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we can
take up all morning for this.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Thank you.
Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, would
you like to comment?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to -I've got
to leave in just a minute, and I wanted to
say one thing.
We spend about 5 percent of our gross
national product on defense. The esti-
mates are that the Soviets spend between
13 and 15 percent of their gross national
product on defense. Senator Culver and I
are very strong allies, and we're in har-
2206
