Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to recognize our responsibility as parents,
grandparents, neighbors and citizens, to
support the efforts of our schools to meet
our high expectations, so that now and
in generations to come our people may be-
come a truly educated people.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of September, in the year of our Lord
nineteen hundred seventy-eight, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:12 p.m., September 28, 1978]
Budget Rescission
Message to the Congress. September 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
rescission of $10.8 million in employment
and training funds appropriated to the
Department of Labor.
The details of the proposed rescission
are contained in the attached report.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 28, 1978.
NOTE: The attachment detailing the rescis-
sion is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
October 4, 1978.
Administrative Conference of
the United States
Appointment of Seven Members of the
Council. September 28, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of seven persons as mem-
bers of the Council of the Administrative
Conference of the United States. They
are:
Government representatives
JOAN Z. BERNSTEIN, General Counsel of the
Environmental Protection Agency
MICHAEL J. EGAN, Associate Attorney General
MARGARET A. MCKENNA, Deputy Counsel to
the President
MICHAEL PERTSCHUK, Chairman of the Fed-
eral Trade Commission
Public representatives
WALTER GELLHORN, professor emeritus at Co-
lumbia University School of Law (reappoint-
ment)
IRA M. MILLSTEIN, a New York attorney and
adjunct professor of law and trade regulation
at New York University School of Law
OTIS M. SMITH, of Detroit, Mich., general
counsel of General Motors and a former jus-
tice of the Michigan supreme court.
The Administrative Conference was
created in 1964 to develop improvements
in the legal procedures by which Federal
agencies administer regulatory, benefit,
and other Government programs. Its
members include agency heads, other Fed-
eral officials, private lawyers, university
professors, and other experts in adminis-
trative law and government.
Board for International Food and
Agricultural Development
Appointment of David Garst as a Member.
September 28, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of David Garst, of Coon
Rapids, Iowa, as a member of the Board
for International Food and Agricultural
Development for a 3-year term.
Garst was born September 10, 1926, in
Des Moines, Iowa. He graduated from
Stanford University in 1950 with a major
in economics and agricultural policy. He
served in the U.S. Army.
Garst has been part owner of the Garst
Co. since 1940. He is presently half
owner, and the company farms 15,000
1652
