Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 8, 1978
Natural Gas Legislation
Letters to the Members of the Senate on the
Conference Committee Report.
August 31, 1978
Your vote on the natural gas confer-
ence report may be the most important
decision you will make during the 95th
Congress. The enclosed letter describes
some of the specific effects of the natural
gas bill, but I want to emphasize some
overall national considerations.
I personally believe that both energy
producers and natural gas consumers will
be benefitted by this legislation, but far
more is involved than just a carefully bal-
anced compromise between the interests
of producers and consumers. Our Nation's
international reputation and economic
well-being are at stake.
The ability of Congress to enact into
law a national energy policy has become,
in the eyes of many, a test of our nation's
will.
There is no doubt that action on the
natural gas bill will have a direct impact
on our trade deficit, on the value of the
dollar, and on the rate of inflation. The
reduction of more than one million bar-
rels per day in imported oil which will
result from this bill nearly equals the sav-
ing from all the other energy legislation
combined. These considerations are cru-
cial.
I realize that this may be a difficult de-
cision for you. The personal opinions and
voting history of almost everyone have
had to be changed. I know that this has
been true of myself and all the members
of the Senate and House Conference
Committees during the past 16 months.
The compromise proposal is not per-
fect, but it is the carefully crafted product
of a sustained and sincere effort. It is
highly unlikely that any new or replace-
ment legislation can or will be evolved
next year or in the near future if the Con-
gress should reject this bill.
Our national interests are at stake. I
urge you most sincerely to vote for the
natural gas conference report.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
The natural gas conference report is of
overriding national importance.
The problems caused by the current
administrative system are substantial:
supplies are inadequate in many parts of
the country; the pricing structure is un-
1487
