Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
We've tried to devote some attention to
the Caribbean, almost for the first time, on
a multinational basis. We formed a Carib-
bean group of about 30 nations, the pri-
mary thrust being to provide limited fi-
nancial aid for economic development.
Many of these tiny island nations are not
physically capable of taking care of their
own needs. And they need long-term
loans, sometimes soft loans, and this is one
area where we try to take the lead.
I have personally encouraged my
friend Pierre Trudeau to show more in-
terest in Latin American affairs. As you
know, Canada is not part of the OAS. I
wish they were. But I think Prime Minis-
ter Trudeau has demonstrated, with his
active involvement in the Caribbean
group and other matters, that he is in-
deed interested.
When we signed the Panama Canal
treaties he came here. And we've had a
very good, improving relationship with
Canada which can be an important ele-
ment in this hemisphere to benefit the
programs that I've outlined to you very
briefly.
Zbig, I don't know what you said about
Nicaragua. It is better not to have any
direct comment from me, because we are
trying through peaceful means to resolve
the possible suffering that might take
place in the future, to put an end to the
suffering that's already taken place in Nic-
aragua. We want a stable government
there. We don't want to intervene in the
affairs of a sovereign country.
We are trying to work with our friends
and well-meaning neighbors of Nicaragua
to perhaps mediate the disputes. And I
think that this is a worthy goal. We are
using, to a maximum degree, the Organi-
zation of American States as a vehicle
whenever possible. We've got several dele-
gates down there, in addition to our regu-
lar ambassadorial staff, to try to bring
some resolution of this difficult question.
But those are a few comments that
come to mind. There may be some things
that affect you.
QUESTIONS
DRUG CONTROL
Q. Mr. President, in South Florida-
since you're not going to talk very much
about Nicaragua-we're concerned about
the drug traffic, which we seem to be the
chief landing point. We also have a feeling
that the Carter administration is not tak-
ing all of the steps that should be taken
to stop this flow of traffic. And my ques-
tion to you, sir, is do you have any plans to
try to work out some sort of agreement
with the countries that are the source of
some of these drugs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've already
done a great deal, never enough in the
case of drugs. When I became President,
just a short time ago--sometimes it seems
like a long time ago [laughter]-about
90 percent of the heroin coming into this
country was obtained from Mexico. And
under the extremely able administration
of Dr. Peter Bourne, working with Mr.
Bensinger ¹ and others, we worked out an
agreement with President López Portillo,
the new President of Mexico, to actually
eliminate the poppy fields, which were the
source of heroin for our hemisphere.
That's been almost completely elimi-
nated, the heroin sources in Mexico with
aerial photographs, infrared, that shows
the location of poppy fields, with the very
good cooperation for the first time, really
in an all-out effort along with Mexico
to destroy the poppy fields once they are
found, to try to shift the small farmers
in the high altitude regions above 3,000
feet elevation to alternate sources of in-
come, away from the poppies that were
¹ Peter B. Bensinger, Administrator, Drug
Enforcement Administration.
1599
