Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
seq.), and under or confirmed in the Denali National Monument
Alaska Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note
preceding Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing withdrawal
under Section 17 (d) (1) of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.
1616(d) (1)); however, the national
monument shall be the dominant reserva-
tion. Nothing in this Proclamation is in-
tended to modify or revoke the terms of
the Memorandum of Understanding
dated September 1, 1972, entered into
between the State of Alaska and the
United States as part of the negotiated
settlement of Alaska v. Morton, Civil No.
A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint filed
April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall pro-
mulgate such regulations as are appropri-
ate, including regulation of the opportu-
nity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle by
local residents. The Secretary may close
the national monument, or any portion
thereof, to subsistence uses of a particular
fish, wildlife or plant population if neces-
sary for reasons of public safety, adminis-
tration, or to ensure the natural stability
or continued viability of such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:57 p.m., December 1, 1978]
Proclamation 4616. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In the creation of Mount McKinley
National Park the southern half of the
mountain's massif was inadvertently ex-
cluded from the Park. The creation of
Denali National Monument will bring
within the protection of the National
Park System the entirety of this, the high-
est peak on the North American conti-
nent. This face markedly differs from the
north side for it has a more gradual rise
and a significant system of glaciers. It is
also the approach route used historically
by those seeking to scale Mount McKin-
ley.
Certain of the glaciers on the south
face are among the largest in Alaska,
reaching up to 45 miles in length. Yet,
only the very uppermost parts are pres-
ently within the National Park. Their
protection is enhanced by the creation of
this monument.
In the southwest area of the monument
hereby created are the geologically
unique Cathedral Spires. From this gra-
nitic pluton mass radiate eight major gla-
cial troughs exhibiting cirques and head-
walls rising 5,000 feet from their bases.
The monument also protects significant
habitat for the McKinley caribou herd
which has provided a basis for scientific
study since the early twentieth century.
Associated with the herd in this ecosys-
are other scientifically important
mammals such as grizzly bear, wolf and
wolverine.
tem
The Toklat River region includes a
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of unique area of warm springs which at-
the Cape Krusenstern National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
tracts an unusual late run of Chum sal-
mon. This run provides an important late
2121
