Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But each one of those elements of our
Government-Federal Reserve, Congress,
President are independent. I can't con-
trol the other two. I can set a good ex-
ample; that's what I'm trying to do.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, going back to SALT,
the military is pushing an idea of digging
a lot of holes in the ground for our land-
based intercontinental ballistic missiles.
So, you truck them around; the Russians
never know which hole the missile is in.
The theory is the Russians have to hit all
the holes in order to get all the missiles.
Do you think that's a good idea, and how
does that affect the SALT negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. That is one among
many ideas. I think over a period of time,
it has become obvious that our fixed silo-
type intercontinental ballistic missiles are
becoming more and more vulnerable be-
cause of the accuracy of the Soviet mis-
siles-ours are even more accurate and
the MIRVing of the Soviet missiles,
where they have many warheads on each
missile-which we've had for a long time.
The so-called multiple aim points, or
many silos for each missile, is one idea that
has been put forward. It has some very
serious defects. I can only mention two at
this time. One is, how do you vertify that
all the holes don't have missiles in them?
It's obvious that we would be keeping the
agreement, and we would not violate it.
We don't know that that would be the
case on the other side. And I believe that
we would find, as we proceed further
with it, that it would not only be very
dif-
ficult if the Soviets adopted this same
policy, but very expensive as well.
But that is one option that we are con-
sidering. And I would guess that by the
end of this year, we would have gone
through all the options including that
one. And at that time, certainly at the
time that SALT II agreement is reached,
I will explain to the American people in
the most careful and complete terms
what our future plans for adequate stra-
tegic strength will be, probably going for
the next 5 years.
That's just one of the options now. It
has some very serious defects. It's being
considered.
LEBANON
Q. Mr. President, there's a report that
you are working for a settlement in Leba-
non and that Syria and Israel would be in-
volved. Could you verify this, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a subject that
President Sadat raised with me several
times at Camp David. It's one in which
we've been involved, as you know, for
many months.
There's a tragedy in Lebanon that the
rest of the world has not adequately ad-
dressed, including ourselves. The suffer-
ing of the people of Lebanon, through no
fault of their own in almost every case,
has been extraordinary.
Obviously, the responsibility for resolv-
ing the Lebanon question rests primarily
on the shoulders of those who live there.
My commitment has been to strengthen
the Sarkis government, politically, eco-
nomically, and militarily. We gave them
some aid so that the President of that
country can control the affairs of the
country itself. When we were flying back
from Camp David on the helicopter,
President Sadat and I were talking about
this; Prime Minister Begin joined in the
conversation. All three of us committed
ourselves to renew our support for the
Sarkis government, the Lebanese Gov-
ernment. So, they have the prime respon-
sibility.
The next two nations, I would say, that
are the most intimately involved are
Syria, which has large forces in Leb-
anon-invited in by the Lebanese Gov-
ernment because they cannot maintain
order by themselves under existing cir-
1658
