Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mr. President, have you in any way,
do you think, disappointed the American
people, or have you been disappointed in
yourself?
THE PRESIDENT. I think our expecta-
tions have been realized for the first 2
years, Barbara. There are obviously many
things that I do that disappoint certain
Americans who would like to move more
rapidly toward the goals that we've estab-
lished for ourselves jointly.
I think our communications and un-
derstanding with the American people has
continued in an uninterrupted vein, even
following the 2 years of intensive cam-
paigning. Our Nation has been at peace.
No American has shed blood in a war
or combat overseas. We've used our in-
fluence, I think, in a beneficial way to try
to enhance peace in other parts of the
world.
The pressing problem then was unem-
ployment. And we have added a net in-
crease of 7 million jobs to the American
economic system. The welfare rolls have
been cut down by 1.3 million, and the un-
employment rate has dropped 25 percent.
We still face the chronic problem of infla-
tion, which hasn't been resolved rapidly
enough. We're moving aggressively on it
now. And I think I've learned Washing-
ton to some degree better than I thought
I would, and have a good working rela-
tionship with the Congress.
We still have a major agenda ahead for
continued peace, economic prosperity,
and to enhance the Nation's influence
around the world in a beneficial way.
So, I've got my hands full, but I'm
pleased with the first 2 years.
MS. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, you and I
talked a year ago, and at the time we
talked about some of the problems the
President was having. And you said you
didn't think the people perceived him yet
as a leader, but you were sure they were
going to. Do they now?
MRS. CARTER. I think they do. And I
think 2 years ago, when we talked, we
were naturally a little bit apprehensive,
because it was new to us and we had not
been here. But I think you develop a grow-
ing confidence about what you're capable
of doing. And also, I think at that time
we maybe did not realize the breadth of
counsel and advice that we would have,
experts in all fields and the range of peo-
ple that are willing to help us.
MS. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, your situ-
ation is somewhat unique, because the
President has always said that you are an
equal partner, and you sit in on Cabinet
meetings. And tonight, if we ask some
political or economic, or questions about
foreign policy, I hope that you'll join in.
And if you would like to argue with
the President, we'd be just delighted.
[Laughter]
PRESIDENT'S 1980 CANDIDACY
Mr. President, at your press conference
on Tuesday-I'm going to start right in
with, I think, questions about you that
people care most about-you said that
you'd made your decision whether or not
to run again, but that you wouldn't reveal
the decision until later. It is 2 days later.
[Laughter] Is it late enough?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it's not. I think
it's inappropriate now, when I've only
been in office 2 years, to begin talking
about future political plans, Barbara. It'll
be much later than now.
MS. WALTERS. Much later.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Ms. WALTERS. A lot of people think
you're being coy——————
THE PRESIDENT. No.
2248
