Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
EDWIN O. REISCHAUER, chairman of the board
of trustees of the Harvard-Yenching Insti-
tute and professor of Japanese history and
politics at Harvard University;
SARAH I. SANTAMARIA, international business
development representative for the State of
Florida Department of Commerce;
COL. SAMUEL L. STAPLETON, Commandant of
the Foreign Language Institute at the De-
fense Department;
ELONA MARIJOSIUS VAISNYs, of Mount Car-
mel, Conn., a free-lance writer active in the
Lithuanian-American Community, Inc., and
former communications specialist at Yale
University;
ROBERT E. WARD, director of the Center for
Research in International Studies at Stanford
University.
The President also announced four
Members of Congress who will serve on
the Commission. They are:
SENATOR MARK HATFIELD of Oregon;
REPRESENTATIVE MILLICENT FENWICK of New
Jersey;
REPRESENTATIVE LEON PANETTA of Califor-
nia;
REPRESENTATIVE PAUL SIMON of Illinois.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
September 91
The President met in the morning at
Camp David with Secretary of State Cyrus
1 EDITOR'S NOTE: The informal nature of
the meetings at Camp David precluded the an-
nouncement of daily Presidential schedules by
the White House Press Office. Only those meet-
ings and their participants which were an-
nounced have been included.
R. Vance, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
airs, and Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to
the President.
September 10
The President telephoned the Shah of
Iran in the morning and discussed the
present situation in Iran. The President re-
affirmed the close and friendly relation-
ship between Iran and the United States
and the importance of Iran's continued
alliance with the West. The President
expressed his deep regret over the loss of
life and his hope that the violence would
soon be ended. He further expressed the
hope that the movement toward political
liberalization would continue.
President Carter, President Anwar al-
Sadat of Egypt, and Prime Minister Men-
ahem Begin of Israel went to Gettysburg,
Pa., for a tour of the Gettysburg National
Military Park.
The President met with Prime Minister
Begin. Also attending the meeting were
Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secre-
tary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, Israeli Foreign
Minister Moshe Dayan, and Israeli De-
fense Minister Ezer Weizman.
September 11
The President met in the morning with
President Sadat. Throughout the day, he
also met with members of the U.S. dele-
gation.
The President announced that he will
nominate G. William Miller, Chairman of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, to be U.S. Alternate Gov-
ernor of the International Monetary
Fund.
September 12
The President met in the morning with
President Sadat. Throughout the day, he
also met with members of the U.S. delega-
tion.
1515
