Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
those kinds of things; Jim Hunt repre-
sents those kinds of things.
We've always been eager to reach a
hand out to someone who was in need,
not down as though we were superior to
them, but reach out as a brother or a sister,
and say, "You're having a tough time
now, perhaps you don't have a job, per-
haps you haven't had a chance to get a
good education, perhaps you are a farmer
with just a few acres of land and not much
capital, perhaps you're a young married
person, you don't yet have the finances
to buy a home, perhaps your parents have
never been to college or your grandpar-
ents, and you, for the first time, are trying
to get a better education than they."
Well, those are the kind of people that
the Democrats have always cared about;
even rich Democrats are concerned about
those things. And in doing that, they ex-
emplify the finest aspects of a genuine
Southern-you might say-conservatism.
Because we believe that the best way to
invest our money and taxpayers' money is
in people, to give them a chance to take
whatever talent God might have given
them-sometimes not much talent-but
to use it, through better education pro-
grams, housing programs, farm programs,
to let people stand on their own feet,
answer their own questions, make their
own decisions, run their own lives and, in
the process, contribute, to let the rest of
us have a better life.
This is not something to be scorned or
condemned, when you invest in people.
And I'm proud of the Democratic Party
because it's what it is. I grew up as a poli-
tician, as a very young politician-I
haven't been in it long-in the South.
When a lot of people said, "Well, I be-
lieve in what the Democratic Party stands
for; I really appreciate what Franklin
Roosevelt did to change my life in the
Depression or what Harry Truman did,
kind of a down-to-earth, honest, tough
fighter"—I appreciate those things— "the
idealism of John Kennedy." But one thing
that Democrats have always had to suffer
from, particularly in the South, is that we
had the reputation, which we did not de-
serve, of being fiscally irresponsible.
Now, that's changed. The reputation
has changed. The facts are that it has
never been true. But last month, the Gal-
lup Poll for the first time showed that
twice as many people in this country said
that Democrats are fiscally responsible
than they did Republicans.
And the reason for it is that we've been
trying, since I've been in Washington and
long before, Democrats have, to get con-
trol of the Government, to get control of
the bureaucracy, because again, the bu-
reaucracy really consists of good people,
people like you and me, who—perhaps
younger-said, "I've got one life to live,
and I want to spend my life serving
others." At first, service in the Federal
Government was a very low-paying thing;
it's getting better. But they've got one life
to live, they want to invest it in America.
But the problem has been that for the
last 100 years, the civil service has not
been modified to let them do a better job.
And I thought it was a good idea, when
I was running for President, to promise
that we would reform the civil service to
let excellent, dedicated, competent, qual-
ified employees be rewarded, and to let
those who are not so competent or not so
dedicated be inspired or urged to do bet-
ter, or to be transferred or fired.
I think it helps all around, because it's
not good for one person to be sitting here
at a desk working hard all day, com-
petent, and for their neighbor, who's in-
competent or lazy, to get the same pay,
the same promotion, the same privileges,
for not doing a job that the other person
then has to do for them.
So, we've come close now to completely
reforming the civil service system. We
1580
