Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
now adding new conditions which they
consider open up and change the treaty.
And, particularly, they object to the fact
that the Egyptians are not going to agree
to normalization of relations and exchange
of ambassadors until 1 year
year after
Palestinian autonomy. And they say that
this is not what was originally agreed to,
all these new conditions.
THE PRESIDENT. That's not accurate.
The way I understand the recent nego-
tiations, at the time the Israelis complete
the interim withdrawal, diplomatic re-
lations would be established between
Egypt and Israel. The embargo against
Israel would be removed, and then when
the self-government is established—
within a month, not a year—ambassadors
themselves would be exchanged.
The original proposal was that Israel
would withdraw from El'Arish and from
the central part of the Sinai in the interim
withdrawal, much earlier than the Camp
withdrawal, much earlier than the Camp
David accords required, in 2 months and
4 months. Based on that commitment by
Israel negotiators, Sadat said he would
exchange ambassadors at that time, a
month later. Later Israel's Cabinet with-
drew their proposal and therefore re-
lieved President Sadat of the obligation to
exchange ambassadors early.
But I think that that's a reasonable
schedule. Diplomatic relations would be
established with Israel immediately, as
soon as they made their first interim with-
drawal. It's only the exchange of am-
bassadors themselves that would be
delayed.
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, if the
Middle East talks fail and if you feel that
Israel is not forthcoming, might there be
a reassessment of the United States policy
in Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Our policy with
Israel is—and with the Middle East is
that the security of Israel is paramount;
the continued existence of Israel, their
ability to protect themselves adequately,
and the ability of the Israeli people to
live in peace is paramount above any-
thing else that relates to the Mideast.
Ms. WALTERS. In that regard, Israel
was reported to be very upset when hear-
ing that Senate Majority Leader Byrd
had said that if Israel builds future settle-
ments, the Senate may not increase its
foreign aid to Israel. The Israelis said
that Senator Byrd came to Israel recently,
describing himself as your emissary. And
one wonders if the Senator's statement
reflects your point of view.
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] I have
never attempted to control Senator Byrd's
statements. And I think Senator Byrd
speaks from the perspective of the Con-
gress and as the Democratic leader of the
Senate.
We have always, so far as I know,
adopted as an official American position,
with which I agree, that the settlements
that they are a genuine obstacle to peace.
in the occupied territories are illegal and
And whenever the Israelis publicize with
varied voices that there will be $35 mil-
lion spent on new settlements or a billion
dollars spent on new settlements or an-
other new settlement's going to be cre-
ated, it really puts a dampener on co-
operation from the Jordanians, from the
Palestinians who live in the West Bank,
and even from the Egyptians in carrying
out the spirit of Camp David.
I know it's a very sensitive issue with
Israel. I'm not saying this in a critical
way, but I can say with assurance that
the Majority Leader was speaking for
himself.
MS. WALTERS. That does not represent
your viewpoint?
THE PRESIDENT. Not necessarily. The
attitude of the Congress is, I think, not
something that I ought to comment upon.
I can't say whether I agree or disagree
2254
