Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
MR. LOHFELDT. In Bonn, you will, af-
ter your state visit, meet with the heads
of state or government of the most im-
portant industrial countries of the West.
What will you offer your partners to im-
prove the state of the world economy?
THE PRESIDENT. The central theme of
the economic summit is "concerted ac-
tion," with each country sharing the re-
sponsibility of improving the world econ-
omy. Two of my highest priorities are
lowering the U.S. inflation rate and re-
ducing our oil imports.
In Bonn, I will spell out the steps we
are taking to implement these policies
and the reasons why I am confident we
will succeed. Most of the economic prob-
lems are attributable to severe trade im-
balances among us.
Last year, our Nation had a very high
growth rate. We were financially able to
buy goods from other countries, like Ger-
many and Japan, for example. Our
growth rate was maintained, and so we
have met the goal we had established at
the London Economic Summit Confer-
ence. Other nations were not quite so suc-
cessful. But I hope that in Bonn other
heads of government will be forthcoming
in the areas of trade and growth. Prog-
ress in both areas will be important to the
well-being of the world economy and, of
course, to the American economy as well.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
MR. LOHFELDT. Mr. President, you
have been in office now for some 18
months. How do you feel? Are you still
optimistic about the course and the fu-
ture of your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am. We have
spelled out fairly, I think, the goals for
our Nation in the time I am in the White
House, and we have had some good suc-
cesses.
MR. LOHFELDT. For example?
THE PRESIDENT. A year ago, my big-
gest problem in this country was the un-
employment rate. It was almost 8 per-
cent when I took office. I and the Con-
gress have acted, I think, very effectively
to bring this unemployment rate down.
We have added a net 6.4 million jobs and
cut the unemployment rate by 2 percent.
We also have very good strides in reor-
ganizing our Government. And we have
tried to bring about a repairing of the
spirit of our country in the aftermath of
the Vietnam war and the Watergate
problem. I think we have done that suc-
cessfully; the attitude of our people is
better.
We have still got a long way to go to
solve all our problems. But we have made
good progress, and I feel very optimistic
about the future.
MR. LOHFELDT. Mr. President, thank
you for this interview.
NOTE: The interview began at approximately
4 p.m. in the Library at the White House.
As printed above, the item follows the White
House press release, which was released on
July 14.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
1277
