Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Having spent most of my adult life as a
small businessman, I share with the Con-
gress a strong commitment to the small
business people of our country and I rec-
ognize the need for greater attention to
small business needs by the Federal Gov-
ernment. Since I took office we have re-
duced the burden of Federal regulations
on small business, proposed significant tax
reductions and increased lending under
the guaranteed loan program by 40%. In
May of this year I signed an Executive
Order calling for a White House Confer-
ence on Small Business to be held in Janu-
ary, 1980. This conference will involve
over 25,000 small business people
throughout the country helping us to de-
velop a small business policy for this coun-
try. I intend to work with the Congress
and particularly with Chairmen Smith
and Nelson to develop and implement
such a policy.
This legislation does have beneficial
features. However, it is precisely because
of my commitment to small business and
an effective Small Business Administra-
tion, that I must withhold my approval
from H.R. 11445. This bill, in its present
form, is not the best we can do for small
business in the United States and is in-
consistent with the tight budget situation
we will face in the next few years. Disap-
proval of the bill would not interrupt any
existing SBA programs since SBA pro-
grams are already authorized for fiscal
year 1979, nor would it interfere with Ad-
ministration plans regarding the White
House Conference on Small Business,
since $4,000,000 has already been appro-
priated for the Conference in fiscal year
1979. This Conference is an important
priority of mine and of my Administra-
tion.
The bill authorizes over $2 billion in ex-
penditures in excess of our budget projec-
tions through 1982. It continues a dupli-
cative program of farm disaster lending
by the SBA with excessively deep interest
subsidies and terms which we believe to
be wasteful. This has led to an unwar-
ranted amount of farm disaster lending
which should be done by the Farmers
Home Administration. This Administra-
tion has proposed that farm lending be
consolidated in the Department of Agri-
culture which has the farm credit exper-
tise and extensive field network necessary
to operate the program effectively and
efficiently. The Congress has failed to act
on this recommendation.
Even more important is the effect this
bill would have on the operations of the
Small Business Administration. The bill
virtually mandates significant staff in-
creases. It would also interfere with the
ability of the Administrator of the SBA,
my primary small business advisor and
representative, to effectively run that
agency. The legislation imposes specific
titles and responsibilities upon agency offi-
cials and specifies funding and personnel
levels for activities throughout SBA down
to the smallest detail. These legislative
strictures run counter to my efforts to bet-
ter manage the Federal Government.
The bill also distorts the role of SBA's
Chief Counsel for Advocacy. I supported
the establishment of this office as a means
to insure that the views of small business
were adequately reflected in the policy-
making processes of the Government. But
the legislation tends to move the Chief
Counsel for Advocacy into policy and ad-
ministrative areas more properly those of
the Administrator of the SBA. This bill
also might begin to isolate the Chief
Counsel for Advocacy from the executive
policy-making process by calling for an
annual report to Congress which could
not be reviewed or coordinated with any
1852
