Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 6
States, despite the support of every Pres-
ident since 1948, has not. In international
meetings at the United Nations and else-
where, when I meet with foreign leaders,
we are often asked why. We do not have
an acceptable answer.
I urge the United States Senate to ob-
serve this anniversary in the only appro-
priate way, by ratifying the genocide con-
vention at the earliest possible date.
This action must be the first step to-
ward the ratification of other human
rights instruments, including those I
signed a year ago. Many of the religious
and human rights groups represented
here have undertaken a campaign of
public education on behalf of these cove-
nants. I commend and appreciate your
efforts.
Refugees are the living, homeless cas-
ualties of one very important failure on
the part of the world to live by the prin-
ciples of peace and human rights. To
help these refugees is a simple human
duty. As Americans, as a people made up
largely of the descendants of refugees, we
feel that duty with special keenness.
Our country will do its utmost to ease
the plight of stranded refugees from In-
dochina and from Lebanon and of re-
leased political prisoners from Cuba and
from elsewhere. I hope that we will
always stand ready to welcome more than
our fair share of those who flee their
homelands because of racial, religious, or
political oppression.
The effectiveness of our human rights
policy is now an established fact. It
has contributed to atmosphere
of change sometimes disturbing but
which has encouraged progress in many
ways and in
many places. In some coun-
tries, political prisoners have been re-
leased by the hundreds, even thousands.
In others, the brutality of repression has
been lessened. In still others there's a
movement toward democratic institu-
tions or the rule of law when these move-
ments were not previously detectable.
To those who doubt the wisdom of our
dedication, I say this: Ask the victims.
Ask the exiles. Ask the governments which
continue to practice repression. Whether
in Cambodia or Chile, in Uganda or
South Africa, in Nicaragua or Ethiopia
or the Soviet Union, governments know
that we in the United States care. And
not a single one of those who is actually
taking risks or suffering for human rights
has ever asked me to desist in our support
of basic human rights. From the prisons,
from the camps, from the enforced exiles,
we receive one message: Speak up, per-
severe, let the voice of freedom be heard.
I'm very proud that our Nation stands
for more than military might or political
might. It stands for ideals that have their
reflection in the aspirations of peasants
in Latin America, workers in Eastern Eu-
rope, students in Africa, and farmers in
Asia.
We do live in a difficult and compli-
cated world, a world in which peace is
literally a matter of survival. Our foreign
policy must take this into account. Often,
a choice that moves us toward one goal
tends to move us further away from an-
other goal. Seldom do circumstances per-
mit me or you to take actions that are
wholly satisfactory to everyone.
But I want to stress again that human
rights are not peripheral to the foreign
policy of the United States. Our human
rights policy is not a decoration. It is not
something we've adopted to polish up our
image abroad or to put a fresh coat of
moral paint on the discredited policies of
the past. Our pursuit of human rights is
part of a broad effort to use our great
power and our tremendous influence in
the service of creating a better world, a
world in which human beings can live in
peace, in freedom, and with their basic
needs adequately met.
2163
