Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 28
I called Sadat and Begin to Camp
David to try to induce them to utilize their
great courage and vision, representing
their own people's hunger for peace, to
come closer together. We've made some
progress. We've got a long way to go. But
the point is that we've turned our Nation
around now, and we have goals of which
we can be proud.
I need help in the Congress, Demo-
cratic help. There are 435 Members in
the House. Do you know how many votes
we get on an average bill of the kind I've
just been talking about from the Repub-
lican side? Sometimes as many as 3, some-
times as many as 12. There's a great dif-
ference between the Democratic Party
and the Republican Party. If there wasn't,
I would not be here tonight.
We've got 10 days to go before the elec-
tion. It's going to be a tough campaign.
Our candidates don't have enough money.
You've paid only $15 to come here to-
night, I see most inexpensive Jackson-
Jefferson Day banquet I've ever come to.
All of you can afford more. There's not a
single person in this room that couldn't
contribute a hundred to a thousand dol-
lars to the candidates on this stage on my
right.
You could not possibly make a better
investment in the future of your family,
your State, or your country. There's no
one here who couldn't expend, in the
next 10 days, 40 hours to help the candi-
dates that you have come here professing
to support.
I don't doubt your seriousness or your
dedication, nor your loyalty. I don't be-
lieve you would lie to a President, and
I would like to ask every one in this
room-think about it a few minutes-
who will work on the telephone or hand-
ing out pamphlets or in the headquar-
ters or among your neighbors and family
and friends, all of you who will devote 40
hours between now and election day to
help the Democratic candidates win,
would you please rise? [Applause] That
makes my trip to Maine worthwhile. And
I thank you for it.
Let me close by saying this: We are
partners. We are partners. In the past,
our Nation has sometimes been divided on
issues. At one time, it was divided by war.
Your ancestors in Maine were on one
side, my ancestors in Georgia were on the
other. But our Nation was united, and we
need to make sure that it stays united and
also strong, that it represents what we are.
When Sadat and Begin were at Camp
David the last 10 days, they never saw
each other except for a visit to Gettysburg.
And we agreed before we left that we
would not talk about the Middle East,
because they were in such disharmony
that I thought it would exacerbate and be
an obstacle to a peaceful agreement. But
we went to Gettysburg, and while there,
we read about a man from Maine. His
name was Joshua Chamberlain. He fought
in the war, and later he served as Gov-
ernor of your State.
More than a hundred years ago he
wrote, "A government has something
more to do than to govern and to levy
taxes. It is something more than a police
to arrest evil and to punish wrong. A
government must also encourage good,
point out improvements, open roads of
prosperity and infuse life into all right
enterprises. It should combine the insight
and the foresight of the best minds of the
State, for all the high ends for which so-
ciety is established and to which man
aspires. That gives us much to do."
Those words mean a lot to me as a
Georgian. Those words mean a lot to me
as President. We live in the greatest na-
tion on Earth, economically, militarily,
politically, socially, I hope morally. With
your help, as teammates of mine, along
with Bill Hathaway and the other Demo-
cratic candidates, we can make our great
1901
