Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
appropriated for pollution abatement at
Federal facilities so that we can be sure
that Federal agencies actually comply
with environmental requirements in the
most direct and effective manner.
I know I can count on your cooperation
in this effort.
JIMMY CARTER
Power Rates Charged by the
Southwestern Power
Administration
Statement on Signing S. 2249 Into Law.
October 13, 1978
I am pleased to sign today S. 2249, a
bill which will prohibit discrimination
based on distance from the source of
power in rates charged by the Southwest-
ern Power Administration, an agency of
the Department of Energy.
The main purpose of the bill is to pro-
vide for termination of a transmission
service charge levied upon Associated
Electric Cooperative, Inc., of Springfield,
Missouri. The bill permits the Southwest-
ern Power Administration to renegotiate
all aspects of its contract with this cooper-
ative to more correctly reflect the value of
services rendered, while continuing the
current practice of charging different
rates for different classes of service. The
transmission charge will be terminated
upon completion of the new contract. Fi-
nally, S. 2249 does not prohibit the South-
western Power Administration from re-
covering the transmission service charges
levied prior to the effective date of the act.
Senator Eagleton, the chief sponsor of
the bill, deserves credit for his hard work
in developing this legislation, which will
contribute to the resolution of a long-
standing dispute between a Missouri elec-
tric cooperative and the Southwestern
Power Administration.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2249 is Public Law 95-
456, approved October 13.
National Jogging Day, 1978
Proclamation 4605. October 13, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Millions of Americans have come to
view jogging as an enjoyable, affordable,
and effective way to keep in shape.
Most medical authorities agree with
them, saying that a reasonable and regular
program of jogging improves the heart,
the circulatory system, and the lungs,
while helping runners take off, or ward
off, excess weight.
Everyone who has run knows that its
most important value is in removing ten-
sion and allowing a release from whatever
other cares the day may bring. It is a bless-
ing to our Nation that so many of our
people have rediscovered this simple
pleasure.
By Joint Resolution (H.J. Res. 685) the
Congress has designated October 14, 1978,
as National Jogging Day.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby declare October 14, 1978, as
National Jogging Day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirteenth day of
October, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:01 p.m., October 13, 1978]
1770
