Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 11
portance of duty, done without public rec-
ognition or the blare of trumpets. The
strength of our Nation lies in our willing-
ness to do what we must, each of us each
day, wherever may lie our particular duty.
These unknown soldiers best symbolize
such acts of quiet courage by ordinary
people whose reward is that their Nation
and their freedoms remain secure for fu-
ture generations. They may not have suc-
ceeded in achieving the permanent peace
they sought. But that does not make their
contribution less valuable. They each pre-
serve the dream so that another genera-
tion could try again and for our own gen-
eration to have a time of respite from war
in which to seek a peace that might at last
endure.
As President, I try to remember the
lessons of history. Our first President knew
the terrible responsibility of leading a rag-
ged army of civilians, or enduring the
hardships of battle and of nature and of
helplessly watching his own men die of
wounds and exposure in order to create
our free Nation. He warned us bluntly-
and I quote George Washington-"To be
prepared for war is one of the most effec-
tual means of preserving peace."
I will, as President, make our own prep-
arations so thoroughly that no enemy
will
ever wish or dare to test us.
I seek to do everything in my power
to make peace for ourselves and to help
other nations make peace. We Americans
cannot hope to have the assurance of
permanent peace even when wars are dis-
tant from us. In a world where missiles
can circle the Earth in a matter of a few
minutes, time and space no longer pro-
tect us. We must be ever vigilant and ever
prepared. But our only true hope for sur-
vival and for the survival of liberty and
human opportunity is to create a world in
which no person or no nation need be so
desperate as to risk the devastation and
destruction of war.
We are fortunate that no Americans
are dying in battle anywhere in the world
today. But if we forget why those who are
buried here died, then will their sacrifice
have lost its meaning. Then, if we forget,
they will have paid too high a price.
If we are to honor our dead, whether
from World War I, World War II, Ko-
rea, Vietnam, or the earlier wars that es-
tablished our freedom and independence
as a nation, we must honor their dream
of a world where men and nations live
in freedom and settle their inevitable dif-
ferences peaceably, justly, and without
resorting to violence or force.
I pray each day that we can at last se-
cure the dream for which so many Amer-
icans have died, that no more of our chil-
dren or grandchildren need ever lie here
beside these unknown soldiers in nameless
graves because we could not hold onto the
blessings they gave us and realize the
dreams they died to leave us.
[At this point, a plaque honoring Vietnam era
veterans was unveiled.]
I'd like to say in closing that there is
no unknown soldier from the war in Viet-
nam who is to be buried at Arlington. But
in a sense, all who served in Vietnam were
unknown soldiers, because their service
to our country has not been adequately
realized. They were no less brave because
our Nation was divided about that war.
They were not welcomed back as other
heroes have been, but often ignored as
though their presence among us was an
awkward reminder of the anguish that
accompanied that war at home.
Vietnam veterans knew the same pain
when a bullet struck its mark, the same
loss when they returned home without a
leg or an arm or were unable to see the
land or the familiar faces they had
known. They were no different from vet-
erans of other wars, except that more of
them did not understand why they suf-
2013
