Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the press and vice versa. And in the last
few months we've taken steps to make
sure that we understand each other bet-
ter, so that I have an ability and my Cab-
inet Members have an ability to present
the facts clearer to the American people
through the press, and vice versa.
MR. MOYERS. Is this the work of your
media czar, Mr. Rafshoon? What did he
tell you about how to get the message
out?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it was a com-
mon belief that all of us had that we
needed to have a clearer access to the pub-
lic through the press in an undistorted
way, a truthful way, not to try to cover
up any mistakes we made, and also to
have it understood among those who re-
port the news that they can have access
to me or to Jody Powell or to Hamilton
Jordan or members of the Cabinet or
others if there is a question that arises ap-
proaching a deadline, that they can make
a telephone call and say, "Is this or is this
not accurate?"
We all recognize the devastating con-
sequences of ever making a misleading
statement or telling a falsehood, because
our credibility would be damaged. And
we've bent over backwards (not)ยน to do
that. But I think that we've made some
progress in this respect.
And I understand the Congress a lot
better now. I know the speed with which
legislation can be expected to move
through the Congress. I understand the
complexities of the committee system, the
interrelationships between the House and
the Senate.
And also I think we're doing a much
better job in letting the press have access
to the facts.
MR. MOYERS. The hour is past.
Should we stop?
1 Printed in the transcript.
THE PRESIDENT. I think perhaps we'd
better, if the hour's over.
MR. MOYERS. Well, on behalf of Pub-
lic Broadcasting, I thank you for your
time.
The President. Thank you, Bill.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:30 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast on the Public Broad-
casting Service.
Anti-Inflation Program
Remarks at a Briefing for Federal
Sub-Cabinet Officials. November 13, 1978
This is my first chance to meet with you
as a group. But I have had a chance to get
to know many of you since I've been
President. And I'm very grateful to be
here with you this afternoon to discuss an
important subject.
I'd like to ask, first of all, how many of
you are willing to join in with me and
Alfred Kahn, Charlie Schultze, the Cab-
inet, and others in helping to control in-
flation during this next year and in the
months after-would you just raise your
hand so I know where I stand? [Laugh-
ter] Any who did not raise their hand arc
excused. [Laughter]
Last year I spoke at Notre Dame at the
graduation exercise, and I told them
about a man who was arrested for being
drunk and for setting a bed on fire. And
when he got up in front of the judge he
said, "I plead guilty to being drunk, but
the bed was on fire when I got in it."
[Laughter] And I want to make clear at
the beginning that I don't assume respon-
sibility for all the inflationary problems
that have piled up on my shoulders in
recent months. [Laughter]
As I said in my anti-inflation talk a
couple of weeks ago, this has been a
2028
