Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
MS. WALTERS. -and that you really
are going to run again, and, you know,
why aren't you going to say it?
THE PRESIDENT. It's too early to make
any political announcement about 1980
elections, whether I decide to run or not
run. I'm not going to be coy. And I'll
make the announcement when I think
the political time approaches.
MS. WALTERS. Will it be '79?
THE PRESIDENT. It may be the end of
this year, but not before that-
MS. WALTERS. Let me try once, just a
little bit-
THE PRESIDENT. Not tonight.
MS. WALTERS. Not tonight.
-with Mrs. Carter. There are a
number of Democrats who might run if
they thought your husband wasn't seek-
ing reelection. They may be packing their
bags right now. Should they unpack?
You're a considerate woman. What do
you think they should do?
MRS. CARTER. I don't worry about
those. I think people who want to run for
President-when Jimmy has run for of-
fice on other occasions, we announced it
in time for speculation, in time for those
to decide that wanted to run against him.
But I agree with Jimmy that this is not
the time to make the decision, because we
don't want people just speculating about
everything we're doing, being, preparing
for another election. Right now we're
doing what needs to be done at this time.
And I think that's the way it should be.
Ms. WALTERS. Mr. President, as an
astute politician, you have to be aware
that people are talking about Senator
Kennedy as a possible candidate. Okay, at
this point, he says he's not going to run;
we take him at his word. But if he does—
oh, you're smiling. Do you take him at
his word?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I take him at his
word. But it was a real prospect that
Senator Kennedy would run for Presi-
dent in 1976. When I decided to run sev-
eral years ahead of time, I was not de-
terred by that prospect, nor by that of the
candidacy of any other person. And I do
take him at his word. But my decision will
be made on whether I think I can do a
good job for the American people, not on
the fear or ease of a tough election.
MS. WALTERS. If he ran, could you
beat him?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if I should de-
cide to run, that I would win, yes.
MRS. CARTER. I think Jimmy's going
to be President for a long time.
MS. WALTERS. I think you've answered
our question without answering our ques-
tion.
Which Republican would give you the
toughest fight, do
fight, do you think-Ronald
Reagan, Gerald Ford, George Bush, John
Connally, or somebody else, somebody
new?
THE PRESIDENT. My experience in pol-
itics has been that almost every election is
a tough election, very close. And if there
are wide ranges in popularity at the be-
ginning, the elections tend to narrow. I
don't know why exactly. But I think that
any nominee that Republicans would put
forward would be formidable.
And the best way to win an election is
to have a good record in your incumbency,
job, and to be determined and tenacious,
and, above all, to stay close to the Amer-
ican people. So, I think no matter whom
the Republicans choose, the Democrats
should be on their toes, willing for a tough
campaign, and confident that ultimately
we'll win, because we are the best party
for the people.
MS. WALTERS. But is there any one
whom you think would give you the
toughest fight?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I wouldn't want
2249
