Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and the example. I ask only that you help
me in this task-that we as partners
might end any drift and indecision and
lead our cities and our country toward a
brighter, more prosperous, and a more se-
cure future. With your help, we will not
fail.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:06 a.m. in
Monsanto Hall at the Cervantes Convention
Center.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Mayor Tom Moody of Columbus, Ohio,
president; Mayor John Rousakis of Savannah,
Ga., incoming president; Councilwoman Jessie
Rattley of Newport News, Va., incoming first
vice president; Mayor William H. McNichols
of Denver, Colo., member of the advisory coun-
cil; and Alan L. Beals, executive director, all of
the National League of Cities.
St. Louis, Missouri
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Briefing on the Budget for the Board of
Directors of the National League of Cities.
November 27, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. One of the most gratify-
ing things that has happened since I've
been in the White House as President has
been the evolution of a good, cooperative
partnership arrangement with
you. As
we've prepared major programs of all
kinds, involving health or education, in-
volving transportation, environmental
quality, we've tried to work very closely
with the officials who represent the cities
of our country. This has been especially
true as we evolved the urban policy that's
now the basis for programs that we are
implementing, either through Executive
action or through legislative processes. I
hope that this can continue, and I cer-
tainly expect it to continue.
My feeling is that you are at ease with
me and with my own administration, that
when we fail to measure up to your ex-
pectations, you let us know without de-
lay-[laughter]-and with at least a
proper amount of enthusiasm.
And when we are working in harmony,
as has almost always been the case, I've
appreciated your compliments and the
support that you've given our programs.
When I've been faced with major ques-
tions on international affairs, you've been
very supportive. And, of course, our do-
mestic programs, that don't directly affect
you as mayors, but affect you in a very
comprehensive way through your people—
like energy-you've also been extremely
helpful. I want to be sure that this is a
part of our entire consciousness as a Na-
tion, that not only you and I realize it but
also those people who live in your cities,
who look to you as elected leaders, and,
of course, all of whom I represent as
President.
This morning I'll just be here for a few
minutes, and then officials of the Office of
Management and Budget-Bo Cutter, is
Bo Cutter here?-will go into some detail
about prospects for the 1980 fiscal year
budget. Many of the specific answers can't
be given yet. I'm just at this stage getting
a briefing from the Office of Management
and Budget about some of the issues that
will be presented to me later on. I haven't
made any decisions at this point. I've not
yet met with a single member of my Cabi-
net nor a single head of another major
agency to discuss their own desires for the
programs for 1980 fiscal year at all.
But as we go through this process dur-
ing the next few weeks, it's important to
us to know how you feel about the priori-
ties that we will address. And the main
purpose of the session this morning is to
let Bo Cutter and myself understand your
special concerns.
As I pointed out in my speech a few
minutes ago, all of us will have to suffer
2080
