Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
friendly governments, and also with prin-
cipal officers of the United Nations Sec-
retariat. I had a useful discussion of the
Cyprus issue with President Kyprianou on
October 6, and Secretary Vance met with
President Kyprianou, Turkish Cypriot
leader Denktash, and the Foreign Minis-
ters of Greece and Turkey on the margin
of the United Nations General Assembly.
These contacts and many others have
given us a fairly clear picture of the prac-
tical possibilities for forward movement
and of the aims and objectives of the two
sides. Both Greek and Turkish Cypriots
have underscored to us their desire to see
a resumption of negotiations, although
they still differ on how to do it.
In our talks with the Cypriot parties
and with United Nations officials, we have
gone into some detail on how to bridge the
gap between the parties, so as to arrive at
a mutually acceptable basis for negotia-
tions. We cannot yet tell whether the ef-
forts of our government, Secretary Gen-
eral Waldheim, and other friendly gov-
ernments will bear fruit, but we are doing
our best to encourage regular intercom-
munal negotiations early in the new year.
After the arms embargo repeal, the
Government of Turkey restated its desire
to help negotiate a rapid resolution of
the Cyprus problem. Moreover, in his
speech to the United Nations General As-
sembly on October 3, Turkish Foreign
Minister Okcun reconfirmed his Govern-
ment's commitment to withdrawing all of
its armed forces from Cyprus, except
those mutually agreed upon by the parties
concerned, in connection with a final
settlement. We believe that Turkey will
do its best to help the Secretary General
bring about a resumption of the inter-
communal negotiations.
The annual General Assembly debate
on the Cyprus question took place in the
United Nations during the week of No-
vember 6. The United States Representa-
The
tive stated that "enhancing the prospects
for sustained and productive negotiations
should be our foremost objective," and
that, "All parties interested in promoting
a settlement on Cyprus should now con-
centrate their efforts on encouraging these
talks and fostering an atmosphere that
will contribute to their success.'
United States abstained on the resolution
adopted by the General Assembly because
it contained elements which were clearly
not conducive to a resumption of nego-
tiations. As this report was being pre-
pared the Cyprus question was also being
considered within the Security Council.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 30, 1978.
Sugars, Sirups, and Molasses
Imports
Proclamation 4610. November 30, 1978
MODIFICATION OF QUOTAS ON CERTAIN
SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND MOLASSES
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. By Proclamation 4334 of November
16, 1974, the President modified Subpart
A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States (19 U.S.C.
1202, hereinafter referred to as the
"TSUS") to establish, effective January 1,
1975, following expiration of the Sugar
Act of 1948, rates of duty and a quota ap-
plicable to sugars, sirups and molasses
described in items 155.20 and 155.30 of
the TSUS. The President subsequently
modified the rates of duty by Proclama-
tion 4463 of September 21, 1976, Procla-
2104
