Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
climatological conditions are conducive
to the formation of Naleds, one spectac-
ular example of which occurs in the
area. In the same inland area at Kilik-
mak Creek is found the only known
Alaskan example of a still recognizable
Illinoisian glacial esker, a formation
which is over 100,000 years old.
The unique geologic process of erosion
and sediment transport in this area cre-
ated and continues to create the beach
ridges in which is preserved the archeo-
logical record of the beach civilizations.
Also found in the area is a wide variety
of plant and animal species, from the
marine life along the shoreline and its
lagoons to the inland populations such as
musk-oxen, Dall sheep, caribou and
many smaller species.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the geological, archeological, biological
and other phenomena enumerated above
supports now, as it has in the past, the
unique subsistence culture of the local
residents. The continued existence of this
culture, which depends on subsistence
hunting, and its availability for study, en-
hance the historic and scientific values of
the natural objects protected herein be-
cause of the ongoing interaction of the
subsistence culture with those objects.
Accordingly, the opportunity for the local
residents to engage in subsistence hunting
is a value to be protected and will con-
tinue under the administration of the
monument.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all
cases shall be confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects to be
protected.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section
2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved
as the Cape Krusenstern National Monu-
ment all lands, including submerged
lands, and waters owned or controlled by
the United States within the boundaries
of the area depicted as the Cape Krusen-
stern National Monument on the map
numbered CAKR-90,008 attached to and
forming a part of this Proclamation. The
area reserved consists of approximately
560,000 acres, and is the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and man-
agement of the objects to be protected.
Lands, including submerged lands, and
waters within these boundaries not owned
by the United States shall be reserved as
a part of the monument upon acquisition
of title thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument
is subject to valid existing rights, includ-
ing, but not limited to, valid selections
under the Alaska Native Claims Settle-
ment Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et
2120
