Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 14
visitors, but as products of the soil and
the soul of Germany. When Professor
Gottfried Kinkel proclaimed the ideals of
1848 from these steps, one of his listeners
was a young man destined to be known
equally well to Americans and to Ger-
mans: Carl Schurz, the great German-
American reformer.
A century later, when President Heuss
spoke to you here on the night of his elec-
tion in 1949, not many in his audience
realized they were living in the dawn of
era when Germany and America
would become the closest of partners in a
global effort to secure peace, freedom,
and stability for all mankind.
But that is precisely what has occurred.
Today, the Federal Republic and the
United States share vast responsibilities
and similar interests, and Bonn has taken
its place as the capital of one of our most
important allies. Our security is your se-
curity, and yours is ours. That is why the
United States is increasing its commitment
to NATO and will help to defend your
land as if it were our own.
The Federal Republic and the United
States also share an attitude and a sense
of duty toward Europe and to the world.
Many years ago, Carl Schurz, who took
so much of his guidance from this city,
said something very wise to us, his adopted
people. "The genuine American," he
said, "must be a creative world citizen."
Today both Americans and Germans
are creative world citizens, striving to-
gether to help other regions of the world
achieve economic well-being and stabil-
ity. And, of course, our two nations share
a fundamental faith in the same values-
the values of freedom, of human rights,
of economic liberty, and the conviction
that each person should be able to de-
velop one's own life fully and creatively,
secure from foreign oppression and secure
from domestic disorder.
At a time when the enemies of
democracy seem determined to test us,
we are prepared to maintain our strength,
because we know that democracy is the
most effective means of solving problems
and meeting the needs of our people.
You, as citizens of the capital of one
great democratic nation, and I, as a citizen
of the capital of another, have this faith
in common.
We understand and we share your as-
pirations and your commitment for peace-
ful reunification of all Germany.
As allies, as citizens of the world, as
believers in freedom and democratic gov-
ernment, Germans and Americans also
share an awareness of the interdependence
of all people, everywhere.
As I look about this marktplatz today,
I am conscious not only of its purely Ger-
man history-this gracious rococo build-
ing behind me; this one to my right, re-
stored from the 14th century; the great
university to my left; the spires of the
church above the rooftops-but I'm also
conscious of its present reality: the restau-
rant from China, the American camera
store, the shops filled with produce from
France, Scandinavia, and so many other
nations of Europe and the world. All of
these are reminders of how closely linked
have become the lives of the people of our
planet.
Finally, let me say that the point is that
over the past few generations, relations
among us have become the province not
only of governments but of our people
themselves. As the world's people speak
and work and live together, we all could
well remember the poem of Schiller, im-
mortally put to music by the great
Beethoven, a son of Bonn, the "Ode to
Joy":
"Alle Menschen werden Brüder
1285
