Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
year.
We will also make better use of the $80
billion worth of purchases the Govern-
ment makes from private industry each
We must be prudent buyers. If costs
rise too fast, we can delay those purchases,
as your family would, or switch to another
supplier. We may not buy a fleet of cars
this year, for example, if cars cost too
much, or we may channel our purchases
to suppliers who have observed our wage
and price standards rather than to buy
from those who have not.
We will require firms that supply goods
and services to the Government to certify
their compliance with the wage and price
standards. We will make every effort,
within legal limits, to deny Government
contracts to companies that fail to meet
our wage and price standards. We will use
our buying power more effectively to
make price restraint and competition a
reality.
The Government now extends eco-
nomic privileges to many parts of the pri-
vate economy-special franchises, pro-
tected wages and prices, subsidies, protec-
tion from foreign competition. If wages
or prices rise too fast in some industry, we
will take that as a sign that those privi-
leges are no longer needed and that this
protection should be removed. We will
make sure that no part of our economy
is able to use its special privilege or its
concentrated power to victimize the rest
of us.
This approach I've outlined will not
end inflation. It simply improves our
chances of making it better rather than
worse. To summarize the plan I'm an-
nouncing tonight:
We will cut the budget deficit.
We will use Federal policy to encourage
more competition.
We will set specific standards for both
wages and prices throughout the economy.
We will use all the powers at our dis-
posal to make this program work.
And we will submit new anti-inflation
proposals to the Congress next January,
including the real wage insurance pro-
posal I've discussed tonight.
I've said many times that these steps
will be tough-and they are. But I also
said they will be fair-and they are. They
apply equally to all groups. They give all
of us an equal chance to move ahead.
And these proposals, which give us a
chance, also deserve a chance. If, to-
chance,
morrow or next week or next month, you
ridicule them, ignore them, pick them
apart before they have a chance to work,
then you will have reduced their chance
of succeeding.
These steps can work, but that will take
time, and you are the ones who can give
them that time. If there's one thing I'm
asking of every American tonight, it is
to give this plan a chance to work-a
chance to work for us.
You can help give it that chance by
using your influence. Business and labor
must know that you will not tolerate irre-
sponsible price and wage increases. Your
elected officials must know how you feel as
they make difficult choices.
Too often the only voices they hear are
those of special interests, supporting their
own narrow cause. If you want Govern-
ment officials to cut inflation, you have to
make sure that they hear your voice. I
have heard you with unmistakable clarity.
Nearly 40 years ago, when the world
watched to see whether his nation would
We will slash Federal hiring and reduce survive, Winston Churchill defied those
the Federal work force.
We will restrain Federal pay.
We will delay further tax cuts.
We will remove needless regulations.
who thought Britain would fall to the
Nazi threat. Churchill replied by asking
his countrymen, "What kind of people do
they think we are?"
1844
