Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 20
to the President pro tem of the Senate,
to again demonstrate as strongly as I
possibly can my full support for the rati-
fication of the equal rights amendment.
We still have 15 States of the 50 who
have not ratified this amendment to the
Constitution, which would give a sim-
ple acknowledgement that women should
have equal rights under the laws of our
Nation.
This has not been an easy effort. And
although it's a well-deserved recognition
of the fact that equal rights have not in-
deed been extended to women, there's
been a gross distortion of what this amend-
ment does.
I believe that a thorough debate, an
accurate analysis of what the significance
of this amendment is, will lead to ratifica-
tion of the constitutional amendment.
It's a very important effort. We now
will have three additional years to let the
public be well educated, to let the legis-
latures of the remaining 15 States be
thoroughly acquainted with the beneficial
consequences of the ratification amend-
ment and a chance to inspire all those who
believe in equal justice and basic human
rights in our country to show this by their
full support of the passage of this amend-
ment.
I and all my family, my Cabinet mem-
bers, the Democratic Party officials, all of
us are eager to work with those who have
been so courageous and persistent in pur-
suing this great effort.
fication of the equal rights amendment.
And in doing so, I urge all the people
of the country to join me in correcting a
basic defect in the American Constitution
in providing equal rights for the women
of our country.
[At this point, the President signed the re-
solution.]
Let me say that this is enough of cere-
monies, and now it's time for all of us to
go to work. [Laughter] I hope that we can
start our efforts among the people of our
country very early and not wait until the
final few hours of intense debate in the
State legislatures before we mount an ef-
fective effort.
I think Sarah Weddington here on my
staff will be a major asset, and of course,
my wife, my daughter-in-law Judy, who's
working almost full-time. She's going to
have to take a brief respite around the first
part of December to deliver my first
granddaughter. [Laughter] But other than
that, we'll be working full-time.
And I want to thank all of you who
have been so notable in your efforts, some-
times under the most discouraging cir-
cumstances. But I think that the truth
has prevailed in the Congress, and I'm
sure it will prevail in the rest of our coun-
try in the months ahead.
Thank you again, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
No Public Law number was assigned to H.J.
Res. 638.
I think it is accurate to say that a few
weeks ago even, the issue was in doubt.
But because of the extremely effective ef-
fort made by Birch Bayh, Don Edwards, National Family Week, 1978
many others, certainly including the ma-
jority leader of the Senate, the Speaker
Proclamation 4606. October 20, 1978
of the House, this has been made possible By the President of the United States
for us all.
And now, as President of the United
States, it's a great pleasure for me to sign
the law passed by Congress, the resolution
extending the time of 3 years for the rati-
of America
A Proclamation
Families differ, but the values of family
life are unchanging-warmth, love, com-
1801
