Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
Gene Atkinson, you could not possibly
have a better man in Washington.
Perhaps you have been here almost
long enough. Now I want you to leave
here, go home, go to work for Gene.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
4: 30 p.m. at Ciro's Top of the Mall Restau-
rant at the Beaver Valley Mall.
Columbus, Ohio
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the
Mount Vernon Plaza. September 23, 1978
Senator Glenn, Senator Metzenbaum, my
good friend Dick Celeste, Chairman Paul
Tipps, Mayor Moody, my friend Les
Brown, Jerry Hammond, Amos Lynch,
Bill Potter, ladies and gentlemen, brothers
and sisters:
How many of you think we have a
great country? [Applause] How many of
you think we can make it even better?
[Applause]
I'm very proud to come here this after-
noon to be with you, to talk for a few
minutes about how you, yourselves, have
helped to make the United States of
America a better country. I spent 2 weeks
at Camp David, and we made great
progress forward toward world peace.
But what you've done here is also a sym-
bol of the greatness of our country.
Mount Vernon Avenue, as you know,
in years gone by, has been one of the
worst places with the worst reputation,
perhaps, in the Columbus area. It was a
place where housing was not good. It was
a place where sanitation was not good.
It was a place where health conditions
were not good. It was a place where
crime was high. And then you, the people
of this area, decided to do something
about it. Now you've got an area that's
safe, healthy, clean, beautiful, and it's
going to be even better in the future.
There are areas where the Federal
Government has come in, with a few real
estate people, and have got together
with the promoters, put in a housing proj-
ect, put in a place for older people, with-
out consulting the local people, and it
just didn't work. Near here you've got a
few projects like that yourselves. Sawyer
Towers, Sawyer Manor, and Trevitt
Heights were originally planned to be
places just as beautiful as this. But the oc-
cupancy rate is down; vandalism is high.
And we've got a long way to go to make
those places as beautiful as this.
Here you have made sure that the real
estate promoters couldn't rip off the poor.
Here you have made sure that you may
work among the Federal, State, and local
governments, along with private develop-
ers and yourselves.
The slums are gone. The people that
used to live here still live here. The ones
who ran the businesses before are still op-
erating businesses here. I've seen slum de-
velopment projects come in where 2 or
300 families used to live, level them to
the ground with bulldozers, and the poor
else, and then a few places for rich peo-
people had to live and move somewhere
ple sprang up to take their places.
But here in Mount Vernon Plaza and
the area around, you've got more houses
now, more places for people to live here
now than you did before this great proj-
ect started. This is the kind of cooperation
that makes our country great.
One thing that I believe that you know
is that we've got to have jobs for our peo-
ple. When I came into office, we had
about 10 million Americans who couldn't
get a full-time job. About 7 million Amer-
icans didn't have a job at all. The unem-
ployment rate was up at 8 percent, and
the Democratic Congress, many others,
and I went to work.
1619
