July 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment, employment opportunities, and
hope to people living in these projects.
The way we intend to bring $209 mil-
lion in assistance to local communities is
completely consistent with the urban pol-
icy announced by the President on March
27 of this year. We are going to involve the
local government and voluntary associa-
tions. We are going to simplify the paper-
work associated with the program. We
are going to coordinate the activities of
other Federal agencies that can be of as-
sistance to these projects, and we are go-
ing to make better use of already avail-
able funds. LEAA is one of the participat-
ing groups in this program.
All of us who are concerned about im-
proving the living conditions of the dis-
advantaged are faced with a great chal-
lenge. Can this be done within the re-
strictions imposed by today's economies
and the taxpayers' concern with the level
of government expenditures? We believe
that it can. The people of the Nation do
not intend to abandon the disadvantaged.
The people of this Nation instead are tell-
ing us that we must seek every possible
way to make better use of the resources
we have. We believe that the program an-
nounced today demonstrates that this can
be done, and we will build on the results
in the future.
There are many reasons to make cer-
tain that living conditions in these multi-
problem projects are improved. Seventy-
six percent of the households in these
projects are single-parent households.
Sixty-three percent of all residents are
members of racial minorities, and 40 per-
cent are elderly. But most important, 65
percent of the residents of these projects
are under the age of 18.
When I think of all these young peo-
ple served by public housing, I remember
the young black Ph. D. in Houston who
grew up in one of these projects and who
today works with people of Houston to
make the entire city a better place in
which to live. And I think of the young
white man in Newark who left a Newark
public housing project to go to Harvard
on a scholarship and who returned to
Newark to head its housing and commu-
nity development program. The protec-
tion of future leaders like the Houston
Ph. D. and the Newark leader is what the
HUD Public Housing Urban Initiative is
all about, and I thank my fellow Cabinet
members for their cooperation in getting
this program
under way.
Thank you,
Mr. President.
ATTORNEY GENERAL BELL. Unless
there's someone else that feels that they
have something on their heart-[laughter]
-we'll adjourn. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House.
Federal Law Enforcement
Assistance Programs
Message to the Congress on Proposed
Reorganization Legislation. July 10, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today sending to Congress the
"Justice System Improvement Act of
1978," which will make
will make significant
changes in programs now being admin-
istered by the Law Enforcement Assist-
ance Administration ("LEAA") and will
revitalize our efforts to help State and lo-
cal governments improve their justice
systems.
For the past 10 years, Federal efforts
to control crime through LEAA have
been uncoordinated and ineffective. In
providing financial assistance to State and
local governments, the LEAA program
has never been as efficient or effective as
originally intended. A complex bureau-
cratic structure has enveloped the Fed-
1246
