Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of the monument in accordance with ap-
plicable laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
Kobuk Valley National
Monument
Proclamation 4621. December 1, 1978
of America
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, By the President of the United States
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section 17
(d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in this
Proclamation is intended to modify or re-
voke the terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding dated September 1, 1972,
entered into between the State of Alaska
and the United States as part of the nego-
tiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton,
Civil No. A-48–72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall pro-
mulgate such regulations as are appropri-
ate.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
of the lands thereof.
any
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:02 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Kenai Fjords National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
A Proclamation
The Kobuk Valley and its environs, an
area located in the northwest interior of
Alaska, contains important archeological
data and biological and geological fea-
tures of great scientific significance.
Archeological features within the area
illustrate an unbroken continuum of hu-
man adaptation to the natural environ-
ment from the early pre-Eskimo people
of 10,500 years ago to present-day local
residents. Scientists recently discovered
more than 100 dwellings occupied in
about 1250 A.D., comprising the largest
settlement of its kind. The Onion Portage
Archeological District is located within
the area, and is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places. Archeological
research at Onion Portage has yielded
evidence of more than 10,000 years of
human occupation.
The area contains the Great and Little
Kobuk Sand Dunes, which lie north of
the Arctic Circle and include both active
and stabilized dunes. Scientific studies of
the dunes show them to be older than
33,000 years, and several plants have been
found in association with the dunes en-
vironment which are scientifically un-
usual in the area. The Great Kobuk Sand
Dunes attain a height of 100 feet.
The inclusion of the watersheds on the
north and south of the Kobuk River pro-
tects a uniquely representative series of
interrelated plant communities. There is
2130
