Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 6
tovoltaic purchase program tied to the
specific goals of this act be undertaken
soon. Rather, consistent with congres-
sional intent, we will focus on research
and development that will accelerate cost
reductions. We will also continue, where
appropriate, small, carefully targeted pho-
tovoltaic purchases to meet technical ob-
jectives. This approach should lay a firm
foundation for the advancement of solar
power from photovoltaics in the future.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12874 is Public Law
95-590, approved November 4.
The statement was released on November 6.
Veterans' and Survivors' Pension
Improvement Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 10173 Into Law.
November 6, 1978
I am pleased to sign H.R. 10173, the
Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Im-
provement Act of 1978. This bill creates
a new pension program for needy disabled
veterans and their survivors. It removes
the most glaring inequities of the old pro-
gram and directs pension payments to
those veterans and their survivors most in
need. It will assure higher income stand-
ards for the neediest eligible veterans and
their survivors and indexes these income
standards to changes in the cost of living,
as is now done with social security benefits.
This bill substantially carries out the
recommendations for reform of the pen-
sion program submitted by the Veterans
Administration earlier this year. It should
save the taxpayers money in the years
ahead, because it redirects available re-
sources to those veterans and survivors
most in need.
I congratulate the Congress, particu-
larly Chairmen Alan Cranston, Ray Rob-
erts, Herman Talmadge, and Sonny
Montgomery, in passing this measure
which generally meets the administra-
tion's reform objectives and confines the
cost to reasonable levels.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10173 is Public Law
95-588, approved November 4.
Presidential Records Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 13500 Into Law.
November 6, 1978
During my campaign, I promised to
work to make the Presidency a more open
institution. So, I am especially pleased to
sign the Presidential Records Act of 1978,
which will ensure that Presidential papers
remain public property after the expira-
tion of a President's term.
In the past there were no statutory re-
strictions on the disposition of Presiden-
tial papers. Retiring Presidents, Vice
Presidents, and their staffs could take
their papers with them as their own pri-
vate property. Under the new law, all but
the most personal of these papers will re-
main in the hands of the Federal Gov-
ernment after an administration leaves
office.
Once the documents are processed, they
will be available to the public under the
Freedom of Information Act. The excep-
tions provided for in the new law are
sharply limited and carefully drawn. An
outgoing President can restrict access for
a period of up to 12 years to especially
sensitive materials, such as those relating
to a Presidential appointment or those
which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of the privacy of a citizen. As a
safeguard, the legislation also provides for
the resolution of constitutional questions
raised by disputes over the release of Pres-
idential records. Of course, classified for-
eign relations and national security infor-
1965
