Aug. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of Georgia but to all Americans. If there's
ever been a project that started with an
idea and involved citizens who wanted to
see that idea fulfilled, it's been this Chat-
tahoochee River. Citizens who cared and
were concerned and were willing to sacri-
fice all over the State of Georgia made this
possible. And I'm glad to see so many
young children here today, because what
has been done, the bill that you've signed,
will make it possible for them and their
children and their children's children to
enjoy the same beauty and wonders of na-
ture on the Chattahoochee that we have.
And I want to give you my personal
thanks for your leadership as Governor
and as President, not only in this but what
it symbolizes for other things and for the
future. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very
much. This is a very good day for all of
us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:32 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Rose Garden at the
White House.
As enacted, H.R. 8336 is Public Law 95-344,
approved August 15.
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Nomination of Three Members of the Board
of Directors. August 15, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate three persons to be mem-
bers of the Board of Directors of the Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting. They
are:
GEOFFREY COWAN, of Los Angeles, who would
replace Joseph Hughes, whose term expired.
Cowan, 36, is a lecturer in the Communica-
tions Studies Department at UCLA, and an
attorney at the Center for Law in the Public
Interest. From 1972 to 1974, he was direc-
tor of the Communications Law Program at
UCLA.
PAUL S. FRIEDLANDER, of Seattle, who would
replace Gloria Anderson, term expired.
Friedlander, 66, is an attorney and president
of Friedlander and Sons, Inc. He is on the
board of KCTS-TV and is active in civic
organizations.
KATHLEEN NOLAN, of Los Angeles, who would
replace Amos Hostetter, term expired.
Nolan, 44, is president of the Screen Actors
Guild. She is an actress in television, theater,
and films. She has been a lecturer at the
UCLA extension program on "Women in
Media" and is on the Los Angeles Board of
Human Relations.
International Atomic
Energy Agency
Nomination of U.S. Representative and
Alternate Representatives to the 22d Session
of the General Conference. August 15, 1978
The President today announced the
persons whom he will nominate as Rep-
resentative and Alternate Representatives
of the United States to the 22d session
of the General Conference of the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA),
which is scheduled to be held in Vienna,
Austria, from September 18 to 22, 1978.
They are:
DALE D. MYERS, Under Secretary of Energy,
to be the U.S. Representative;
GERARD C. SMITH, Ambassador at Large and
United States Special Representative for
Non-Proliferation Matters, to be an Alter-
nate Representative; and
ROGER KIRK, Deputy Representative of the
United States to IAEA, to be an Alternate
Representative.
Foreign Exchange Markets
White House Statement. August 16, 1978
The President has been meeting with
Secretary of the Treasury Blumenthal,
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board
Miller, and others in the light of his deep
1426
