Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cial considerations in the marketplace
provides the best means of assuring that
the needs of consumers will be met and
that prices will be as low as possible, given
the costs of providing efficient air service.
2. Charters. The introduction of char-
ters acted as a major catalyst to the expan-
sion of international air transportation in
the 1960's. Charters are a competitive
spur and exert downward pressure on the
pricing of scheduled services. Charters
generate new traffic and help stimulate
expansion in all sectors of the industry.
Restrictions which have been imposed
on the volume, frequency, and regu-
larity of charter services as well as re-
quirements for approval of individual
charter flights have restrained the growth
of traffic and tourism and do not serve
the interests of either party to an aviation
agreement. Strong efforts will be made to
obtain liberal charter provisions in bilat-
eral agreements.
3. Scheduled Services. We will seek to
increase the freedom of airlines from ca-
pacity and frequency restrictions. We will
also work to maintain or increase the
route and operating rights of our airlines
where such actions improve international
route systems and offer the consumer
more convenient and efficient air trans-
portation.
4. Discrimination and Unfair Competi-
tive Practices. U.S. airlines must have the
flexibility to conduct operations and mar-
ket their services in a manner consistent
with a fair and equal opportunity to com-
pete with the airlines of other nations. We
will insist that U.S. airlines have the busi-
ness, commercial, and operational oppor-
tunities to compete fairly. The United
States will seek to eliminate unfair or de-
structive competitive practices that pre-
vent U.S. airlines from competing on an
equal basis with the airlines of other na-
tions. Charges for providing airway and
airport properties and facilities should be
related to the costs due to airline opera-
tions and should not discriminate against
U.S. airlines. These objectives were recog-
nized by the Congress in legislation en-
acted in 1975, and their attainment is
required if consumers, airlines, and em-
ployees are to obtain the benefits of an
otherwise competitive international avia-
tion system.
5. Multiple Airline Designations. The
designation of new U.S. airlines in inter-
national markets that will support addi-
tional service is a way to create a more
competitive environment and thus en-
courage improved service and competition
pricing. Privately owned airlines have
traditionally been the source of innovation
and competition in international aviation,
and it is therefore particularly important
to preserve for the United States the right
of multiple designation.
6. Maximum Access to International
Markets. Increasing the number of gate-
way cities for nonstop or direct air service
offers the potential for increasing the con-
venience of air transportation for passen-
gers and shippers and improving routing
and market opportunities for interna-
tional airlines. In addition, enhancing the
integration of U.S. airline domestic and
international air services benefits both
consumers and airlines.
7. Cargo Services. We will seek the op-
portunity for the full development of
cargo services. Frequent demand for such
services requires special equipment and
routes. Cargo services should be permitted
to develop freely as trade expands. Also
important in the development of cargo
services are improved facilitation, includ-
ing customs clearance, integration of sur-
face and air movements, and flexibility in
ground support services.
1464
