Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 30
Ten million Americans could not find a
full-time job; 7 million Americans
couldn't find any job at all. The unem-
ployment rate was 8 percent. And we
started working together, the Congress
and I and many of you who are not in
government. We've added a net of 62
million jobs; we've cut the unemployment
rate 25 percent; we've allotted 6 billion
new dollars for youth employment; we've
tripled CETA jobs; we've doubled Job
Corps jobs; we've quit making poor peo-
ple pay for food stamps. We've made some
progress.
We've made some progress, but we can't
afford to rest on our laurels, because Gus
Hawkins, Hubert Humphrey, the mem-
bers of the Black Caucus knew and still
know that we can never stop moving to-
ward full employment until every man
and every woman in the United States
who's able and willing to have a job has
a job. And I'm determined to see this bill
passed this year, because I don't want to
hear the unemployed child or man with a
dependent family cry out this verse, "In-
asmuch as ye did it not to one of the least
of these, ye did it not to me."
Twenty months ago, when a Demo-
cratic administration came in after 8 years,
the civil rights laws that you had struggled
and suffered to have passed were being
unenforced. They laid dormant. Tens of
thousands of cases that had been pre-
sented to your Government had not been
heard. There was no administrative thrust
behind them. Government contracts-
your tax money being spent for good proj-
ects—never found a black contractor to fill
the need for work; bank deposits avoided
the black-owned banks. Women were still
deprived of a basic constitutional right
for equality.
We had court cases coming along the
Bakke case, challenging the right to con-
sider race in admission to colleges, with
far-reaching impact that might have con-
demned absolutely the affirmative action
commitment of us all. And people like
Drew Days and Eleanor Holmes Norton
worked with many of us to bring about
improvements in employment opportuni-
ties.
We still have a long way to go. And I
predict to you that next week, the bill that
will extend the constitutional amendment
time for the equal rights amendment will
pass the Senate, and we'll still have a
chance in our country to give women the
same basic constitutional right that the
rest of us have.
Human services were neglected for 8
years. Educational funds were not focused
on a poor child, a child whose parents
were illiterate because they never had a
chance to get an education. We know
what Lyndon Johnson tried to do in 1965
with the Elementary and Secondary Acts,
the Higher Education Acts. But those had
not been realized in their dreams. And
this year, we have increased funds allot-
ted for educational programs focused on
those who need it most, more than any
time in the history of our country, includ-
ing even those great days when Lyndon
Johnson was President.
And Pat Harris has seen very clearly
that our central cities were deteriorating.
Housing was absent. And she and I and
Mary Berry and the Black Caucus and
many of you have worked to correct these
defects in our society. We now have an ur-
ban policy that will let us have better
cities where the poor people live. We're
determined to carry it through. We're
working together. We'll never change our
commitment.
We also saw a silent robbing of those
who live on fixed incomes, who have a
small pension, who live on slowly chang-
ing welfare payments, who have a part-
time job. We inherited a very high infla-
tion rate. For 10 solid years, inflation has
been too high. Waste in government was
1681
