Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
When to close my answer-when I
was in Bonn this year, we all promised
that next year's economic summit, which
might possibly be in Japan, sometime in
the late spring, that this would be one of
the top items on our agenda. And that is a
very significant thing, because as we pre-
pare for an economic summit, we liter-
ally do months and months of staff work,
Cabinet-level work, and then I, myself, do
a lot of work just to understand the
question.
So, I'll be thoroughly schooled in it as a
student before we get there. And I think
this will open an avenue whereby the
seven major developed countries in the
Western World can be prepared to co-
operate better in the future.
Maybe one more question.
CAMP DAVID MEETING
Q. Do you have any plans to apply
your Camp David techniques to the solu-
tion of some of the Caribbean and Latin
problems?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I had a
meeting with some other editors earlier,
and they asked me if I would get George
Meany and Mr. Fitzsimmons and several
others and go to Camp David and spend
a few weeks to resolve the inflation prob-
lem. I told them that was a fate worse
than death. [Laughter] I never had seen a
time when I wanted to leave Camp David
and come back to Washington until this
past Sunday. [Laughter]
But, no, I think that would be a very
rare thing. It was an extraordinary time.
I think you can see, as editors, in the after-
math of Camp David the disruption of a
legitimate exploration for differences.
And I don't say that in a critical fashion.
But at Camp David we tried to get
people to be cooperative and not to publi-
cize differences, but to search for a com-
mon ground on which we could build an
agreement. If I or Begin or Sadat had had
a press conference daily while we were at
Camp David, the conference, in my opin-
ion, wouldn't have lasted 2 days, because
there had to be a removal of appealing
to the public.
And as you well know, both Begin and
Sadat were extremely courageous in tak-
ing stands quite different from what they
had espoused in the past, some of which
were highly controversial and might be
disapproved by those who had trusted
them with leadership.
I think they both are very good and
courageous people. But the enclosed na-
ture of the Camp David environment is
one that in the future I prefer to enjoy
by myself with my wife. [Laughter]
Thank you very much. I enjoyed it.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:45 p.m. in
the Roosevelt Room at the White House. It
was conducted as part of the Latin American
Program for Senior Editors of the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 23.
Supplementary Fiscal Assistance
Legislation
Statement on Senate Action on the Legislation.
September 23, 1978
I am pleased that the Senate has acted
favorably on the Supplementary Fiscal As-
sistance program. The assistance provided
by this bill will help our economically
troubled States and localities to maintain
basic services and to hold the line on tax
increases. This program is an integral
component of the urban policy that I pro-
posed earlier this year. I am hopeful that
the House will act quickly on supplemen-
tary fiscal assistance legislation.
1602
