Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Senator John Danforth of Missouri,
whom I commend for having originated
the resolution, chose April 28 and 29, be-
cause it was on these dates, in 1945, that
American troops liberated the Dachau
concentration camp. The dates chosen by
Senator Danforth and embodied in this
resolution thus aptly symbolize both the
horror of genocide and the imperative to
fight against it.
During the next few months, the Presi-
dent's Commission on the Holocaust will
study ways in which this commemoration
can best be observed, and I will issue an
appropriate proclamation next spring. In
the meanwhile, I wish to commend Sena-
tor Danforth, Representatives Wright,
Rosenthal, Rhodes, and Vander Jagt and
their colleagues, who joined in securing
passage of H.J. Res. 1014.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 1014 is Public
Law 95-371, approved September 18.
Outer Continental Shelf Lands
Act Amendments of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 9 Into Law.
September 18, 1978
I am signing into law today S. 9, the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
Amendments of 1978.
Since its enactment in 1953, the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act has pro-
vided basic authority for Federal manage-
ment and development of the resources of
the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). Dur-
ing that time, over 16 million acres have
been leased for oil and gas exploration
and development. Oil and gas production
from the OCS accounted for approxi-
mately 10.2 and 18.7 percent, respectively,
of total domestic production of these vital
resources in 1977. As part of this Nation's
long-term energy program, significant ad-
ditional areas are on the planning sched-
ule for possible leasing over the next sev-
eral years.
As the pace of OCS exploration and de-
velopment activity has accelerated in re-
cent years, growing concern has been
expressed over its effects on coastal areas
as well as the degree of competition for
OCS leases within the energy industry.
There has been uncertainty and contro-
versy over the rate and location of OCS
leasing and development, and States and
localities have sought a greater voice in
Federal OCS management. As the result
of several years of hard work by the Con-
gress, the States, the administration, in-
dustry and labor, and various concerned
citizens groups, S. 9 is designed to provide
a new and more effective balance between
these concerns and the Nation's need for
timely energy development. I am very
pleased to sign these much-needed
amendments into law.
The bill mandates significant changes
in existing law to improve environmental
safeguards, to promote greater coopera-
tion between the Federal Government and
States and localities, to reduce barriers to
OCS activity on the part of small- and
medium-sized energy firms, and to ensure
safe working conditions for those em-
ployed on the OCS. I am convinced that
by reducing the great uncertainty associ-
ated with many aspects of the OCS pro-
gram in recent years and by placing
proper emphasis on environmental pro-
tection and other important objectives,
this legislation will provide the needed
framework for moving forward once again
with a balanced and well-coordinated
leasing program to assure that OCS en-
ergy resources contribute even more to
our Nation's domestic energy supplies.
1530
