Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
National Lupus Week, 1978
Proclamation 4588. August 18, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Five hundred thousand Americans suf-
fer from Lupus erythematosus, an increas-
ingly prevalent disease of the connective
tissue. There are an estimated 50,000 new
victims each year, mostly young women.
In the systemic form, lupus can affect
almost any part of the body and create
abnormalities in the skin, joints, kidney,
heart, or other internal organs. Lupus is
often fatal but even if not, its victims still
endure pain and anguish.
We have made progress in understand-
ing lupus in the last few years. Thousands
of sufferers can look forward to improved
treatment and the opportunity to live
more productive and happier lives. To-
day's outlook is far from bleak, but we still
need new research and alternative ap-
proaches to treatment and diagnosis if we
are to eliminate lupus as a cause of human
suffering and to improve life for its
victims.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week of Septem-
ber 17 through September 23, 1978 as Na-
tional Lupus Week. I invite the Gover-
nors of the States, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, and officials of other areas
subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States to issue similar proclamations.
I urge the people of the United States
and educational, philanthropic, scientific,
medical, and health care organizations
and professionals to provide the necessary
assistance and resources to discover the
cause and cure of lupus erythematosus
and the other rheumatic diseases and to
alleviate the suffering of all persons
struck by these disorders.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:54 a.m., August 21, 1978]
World Conference To Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination
White House Statement. August 18, 1978
This week representatives of many na-
tions are meeting in Geneva in a World
Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination.
The Conference marks the midpoint of
the U.N. Decade for Action to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination, a
Decade whose initiation the United States
strongly supported. But the United States
is unable to participate in this potentially
important Conference, although we will
monitor the proceedings, because the defi-
nition of "racism" has been perverted for
political ends by including Zionism as one
of its forms. The United States cannot
associate itself with the Decade so long
as it endorses the patently false definition
of Zionism as a form of racism.
Instead we hope that this Conference
will return to the original purpose of the
Decade, so that we might rejoin this in-
ternational effort to eliminate racism
throughout the world. We will work
towards this end because we know the
challenge that racism poses, and for more
than a century we have struggled to heal
its scars. We know our goals have not
been fully accomplished, yet we are en-
1456
