Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 28
proceeds, and I have asked the Secretary
of Defense to cooperate fully in this
endeavor.
American Battle Monuments
Commission
Appointment of Nine Members.
November 27, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of nine persons as members
of the American Battle Monuments Com-
mission. They are:
ALFRED P. CHAMIE, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.,
who retired earlier this year as general
counsel of the Association of Motion Picture
and Television Producers, Inc. Chamie is a
former national commander of the Ameri-
can Legion and is a trustee of the American
Legion Hollywood Canteen Fund. He has
been a member of this Commission since
1971.
GEN. BENJAMIN O. DAVIS, JR., of Alexandria,
Va., a retired Air Force general and former
Assistant Secretary of Transportation (1971-
1975). Davis is a governing trustee of the
Air Force Historical Foundation and a mem-
staff director of the House Committee on
Veterans' Affairs from 1955 to 1976.
JOHN M. POPE, of Americus, Ga., who retired
in 1972 after 25 years as owner and oper-
ator of Southern Burial Vault Co.
GEN. LOUIS H. WILSON, Commandant of the
Marine Corps.
Bill of Rights Day, Human
Rights Day and Week, 1978
Proclamation 4609. November 28, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Two great events in the history of hu-
man liberty will be commemorated in De-
cember: the ratification, on December
15, 1791, of the Bill of Rights of the
Constitution of the United States, and the
adoption, on December 10, 1948, of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
by the United Nations General Assembly.
The anniversary of the Bill of Rights
reminds us that our Nation is a continu-
ber of the President's Commission on Mili- ing experiment in human freedom. Be-
tary Compensation.
T. HARRY GATTON, executive vice president of
the North Carolina Bankers Association.
Gatton is vice chairman of the North Caro-
lina Historical Commission. He was a mem-
ber of the American Battle Monuments Com-
mission from 1961 to 1969.
GEN. JAMES M. GAVIN, of Chestnut Hill,
Mass., a retired Army general and former
ambassador to France. Gavin is now a di-
rector and consultant to Arthur D. Little,
Inc., the industrial research, engineering,
and management consulting company.
GEN. ANNA MAE HAYS, Chief of the Army
Nurse Corps, the first American woman to be
promoted to general or flag officer rank.
ADM. JAMES L. HOLLOWAY III, former Chief
of Naval Operations and member of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
OLIVER E. MEADOWS, national commander of
the Disabled American Veterans, formerly
cause of the Bill of Rights, we have been
able to weather 187 years of tumultuous
social and technological change without
losing our fundamental liberties. Indeed,
those liberties have actually expanded in
scope, and have grown to encompass a
steadily larger proportion of our people.
We can be proud of what we have
achieved. But we cannot be complacent,
for too many Americans are still denied a
fair opportunity to enjoy the rights and
rewards of our society. That is why Bill of
Rights Day should be a day of rededica-
tion as well as of commemoration.
This year, we mark the 30th anniver-
sary of the Universal Declaration of Hu-
man Rights.
2089
