Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225,
16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there
are hereby set apart and reserved for in-
clusion in the Katmai National Monu-
ment all lands, including submerged
lands, and waters owned or controlled by
the United States within the boundaries
of the area depicted as the Enlargement
of Katmai National Monument on the
map numbered KATM-90,007 attached
to and forming a part of this Proclama-
tion. The area reserved consists of approx-
imately 1,370,000 acres, and is necessary
to ensure the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects the monument was
established to preserve and those added by
this Proclamation. Lands, including sub-
merged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
reservation or appropriation, including
any withdrawal under Section 17(d) (1)
of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1)); however,
the national monument shall be the dom-
inant reservation. Furthermore, nothing
in this Proclamation is intended to mod-
ify, revoke or abrogate the terms of the
Memorandum of Understanding dated
September 1, 1972, entered into between
the State of Alaska and the United States
as part of the negotiated settlement of
Alaska v. Morton, Civil No. A-48–72 (D.
Alaska, Complaint filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
States shall be reserved as a part of the by local residents. The Secretary may
monument upon acquisition of title
thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this addition are hereby appropriated and
withdrawn from entry, location, selection,
sale or other disposition, other than ex-
change. There is also reserved all water
necessary to the proper care and manage-
ment of those objects protected by this
monument and for the proper administra-
tion of the monument in accordance with
applicable laws.
The establishment of this addition is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing withdrawal,
close this addition, or any portion thereof,
to subsistence uses of a particular fish,
wildlife or plant population if necessary
for reasons of public safety, administra-
tion, or to ensure the natural stability or
continued viability of such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:01 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Katmai National Monument are printed
in the Federal Register of December 5, 1978.
2128
