Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
To facilitate congressional delibera-
tions, I have asked that the Attorney Gen-
eral and the Secretary of the Interior
offer their advice and technical assistance
to the committees that review the docu-
ment.
The White House,
September 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
ATTACHMENT
1. Under the constitution, the aggre-
gate public debt limitation for the Virgin
Islands Government may not exceed two
and one-half times its average annual
revenue for the previous three fiscal years
(exclusive of Federal grants). But because
the constitution does not adequately de-
fine "revenue," the exact level of the new
debt limitation is unclear and could con-
ceivably be a substantial increase over the
current level, depending on which receipts
from various Virgin Island governmental
accounts are counted as revenue. There-
fore, the definition of revenue in determin-
ing the public debt limitation under the
constitution should be clarified. The
pres-
ent debt limitation, authorized by the or-
ganic act and subsequent legislation, is
primarily based on a percentage of as-
sesed property valuation in the Virgin
Islands.
2. The constitution also creates the
position of Territorial Comptroller Gen-
eral, who would be responsible for au-
diting all revenues, expenditures, and
programs of the local government. The
relationship of the proposed Comptroller
General with the current Federal Comp-
troller for the Virgin Islands should be
clarified. Because major Federal assist-
ance is received by the Virgin Islands, the
proposed Comptroller General should
complement, but not substitute for, the
Federal Comptroller.
3. Section 3 of the transitional schedule
of the constitution provides that, after the
effective date of the constitution, “laws,
executive orders, and regulations that are
inconsistent with the constitution shall be
void to the extent of the inconsistency."
The Department of Justice advises me
that section 3 cannot apply to the sources
of law based on Federal authority, such as
Federal statutes, executive orders, and
regulations--including executive orders
and regulations issued by the territorial-
appointed governors. The Department,
however, recommends revising in the sec-
tion to remove any uncertainty about the
applicability of Federal law.
United States
Ambassador to Oman
Nomination of Marshall W. Wiley.
September 20, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Marshall W. Wiley, of Is-
lamorada, Fla., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Sultanate of Oman.
He would replace William D. Wolle,
resigned.
Wiley was born April 26, 1925, in Rock-
ford, Ill. He received a Ph. B. (1943),
J.D. (1948), and M.B.A. (1949) from the
University of Chicago. He served in the
U.S. Navy from 1943 to 1945.
Wiley joined the Foreign Service in
1958 and was posted in Taiz, Beirut, and
Amman. From 1965 to 1968, he was an
international relations officer at the State
Department.
From 1969 to 1973, Wiley was deputy
principal officer in Cairo, and from 1973
to 1975, he was director of North African
affairs at the State Department. He was
principal officer in Baghdad from 1975
to 1977. Since 1977 he has been Deputy
Chief of Mission in Jidda.
1557
