Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly they're im-
portant symbolically. I think it's also im-
portant that I express myself very clearly
through Alfred Kahn ยน or personally when
I believe these salary increases violate the
standards.
There are extenuating circumstances in
some instances. For instance, the city of
Chicago has a constitution which prevents
any change in a city administrator's sal-
ary, elected official's salary, for a 4-year
period, and any change in the salary has
to be made before the next election so
that the public can, in effect, approve the
salary increase. Mayor Bilandic called me
yesterday afternoon, very concerned about
the altercation, and he is sending his city
budget officer, I think today, to meet with
Alfred Kahn or his people to work out a
reasonable resolution of this question.
I think obviously some of the increases
proposed have been excessive, but if they
can justify the reason for it, if it's an in-
crease that encompasses, say, an 8-year
mandatory period of time, and if the
change is made prior to an election, where
the people that make the change can be
condemned or removed from office by
the populace, that certainly is an extenu-
ating circumstance.
I'm not trying to comment on percent-
ages or numbers. I'm not familiar with
them. But I think it's a very serious
challenge.
I might add one thing-not even par-
enthetically-that we don't have any au-
thority over a city government or a State
legislature. There's a limited amount of
action that we can take even indirectly.
We can't cut off humanitarian funds to a
city or to a State, for instance, or cut off
highway funds simply because the legisla-
ture votes to raise its own salary. But
within the bounds of my authority, or
1 Advisor to the President on Inflation.
practicalities of it, we consider this to be a
serious challenge, and we are trying to
meet it. I think my own statements last
Friday and Fred Kahn's statements since
then demonstrate that that's a fact.
MIG-23'S IN CUBA
Q. Mr. President, I was looking over
the transcript of your answer at the last
press conference on the presence of MIG-
23's in Cuba, and I'm not quite clear what
exactly our intelligence does show with
regard to those warplanes. And I wonder
if you
you could answer whether or not we
have any indication that there is even one
nuclear-capable MIG down there? I'm
not talking about whether or not there
are any nuclear weapons down there, but
whether or not there is a MIG that is
capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
And secondly, your answer also seems
to imply, the remarks about assessing the
quantity and quality of such systems, that
if there were perhaps only one or two,
that that in itself might not constitute a
violation of the '62 understanding we have
with the Soviets. And I wonder if
could also comment on that, whether or
not just one or two might be okay, but
more than that might not be?
you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's ob-
vious that there are planes in Cuba that
can carry an atomic weapon if they are
outfitted to do so, designed specifically
to do so, and if the crew is trained to do
so. There are many relatively small, com-
mercial-type jets that have a physical ca-
pability of carrying a nuclear weapon,
which in this modern technological age
can be relatively small in weight. But I
think that's as far as I want to go with
my answer.
You know, the physical capability of
picking up that much weight, carrying it
to the shores of the United States and
dropping it, is certainly there. But
2176
