Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
Strategic Arms Limitation
Talks
Designation of Ambassador Ralph Earle II as
Chairman of the U.S. Delegation.
October 26, 1978
The President announced today that
Ambassador Ralph Earle II, who has
been serving as Alternate Chairman of
the U.S. Delegation to the Strategic Arms
Limitation Talks (SALT), will become
Chairman of the Delegation upon the res-
ignation of Paul C. Warnke, effective Oc-
tober 31, 1978.
Earle was born September 26, 1928, in
Bryn Mawr, Pa. He received an A.B.
from Harvard College in 1950 and an
LL.B. from Harvard Law School in 1955.
He served in the U.S. Army from 1950 to
1952.
Earle practiced law with the firm of
Morgan, Lewis and Bockius in Philadel-
phia from 1956 to 1968, as an associate
and then a partner. In 1968 and 1969, he
served as Principal Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense and Acting Assistant
Secretary of Defense for International Se-
curity Affairs.
From 1969 to 1972, Earle was Defense
Advisor to the U.S. Mission to NATO.
In 1972 and 1973, he was a consultant for
SALT in the Office of the Secretary of
Defense. He was the ACDA Representa-
tive on the U.S. Delegation to SALT from
1973 until May 11, 1977, when he be-
came Alternate Chairman of the U.S.
Delegation.
Nashville, Tennessee
Remarks at a State Democratic Party Rally.
October 26, 1978
Governor Blanton, Senator Jim Sasser,
Congressman Jones, Congressman Gore,
Administrator of the GSA Jay Solomon,
Mayor Fulton, Speaker Ned McWherter,
Lieutenant Governor Wilder-I'd also
like to recognize Mrs. Clifford Allen,ยน
who is here; we think so much of her-
members of the Tennessee supreme court,
members of the State legislature, the Gov-
ernor's cabinet, my friends from Tennes-
see:
Thank you very much for coming.
Second only to Georgia in the primary,
does anybody here know which State gave
me the biggest margin of victory when I
ran for President? [Applause] Right on.
And I've come to thank you for that.
Not too long ago, the Congress and I
restored full citizenship to President Jef-
ferson Davis. And since Camp David, the
Congress and the people of the country
have done the same to me, and I want to
thank you for that, too.
For any Democrat coming to Tennes-
see, and particularly coming to Nashville,
is a homecoming, because Andrew Jack-
son, one of the greatest Presidents who
ever lived, the father of our party, has
made Tennessee a homecoming place for
all Democrats.
He was a man of great courage. He was
a man who was independent. He was a
man who loved his home State. He was a
man who founded the principles of our
party, that said that those who hold public
office have to put our faith, our confi-
dence, our responsibility to the average,
common, good American citizens who
put us in office.
That was Andrew Jackson's commit-
ment. That's the commitment of the Dem-
ocratic Party today, and we're going to
keep it that way.
There has been a time in the last few
years when Tennessee strayed temporarily
from the Democratic Party and from the
ยน Wife of the U.S. Representative from Ten-
nessee who died June 19.
1857
