Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you,
Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the
forum being held in the Lincoln Theater at
the University of Hartford.
Also participating in the forum were Am-
bassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations, Charles L.
Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to
the President on Inflation, Secretary of Labor
Ray Marshall, Esther Peterson, Special Assist-
ant to the President for Consumer Affairs, and
S. Lee Kling, Assistant Special Counselor on
Inflation.
Appropriations Bill for the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Statement on Signing S. 2584 Into Law.
November 8, 1978
I have signed S. 2584, which author-
izes the Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion's fiscal 1979 appropriation, and con-
tains provisions relating to the national
effort to develop a nuclear waste manage-
ment policy and program.
On March 13, 1978, I established an
Interagency Review Group (IRG)
chaired by the Secretary of Energy and
charged with developing a national strat-
egy for dealing with the long-term man-
agement of nuclear waste. The IRG man-
date recognizes the fact that numerous
Federal agencies, as well as State and lo-
cal interests, must be involved in the for-
mulation of such a national policy, and
in its implementation. The Nuclear Reg-
ulatory Commission has been encouraged
to participate in the work of the IRG to
the extent it deemed appropriate, in light
of its position as an independent regula-
tory agency.
This bill directs the Commission, in co-
operation with the Department of Ener-
gy, to study possible extension of the
Commission's licensing authority over
Federal radioactive waste storage and
disposal activities not presently licensed.
It also requires the Commission to report
on means by which States might partici-
pate more fully in the process of site
selection, licensing, and developing radio-
active waste storage and disposal facili-
ties. These studies, which are to be com-
pleted by March 1 of next year, will give
the Commission an additional opportu-
nity to contribute to the important work
of the IRG. I expect the Commission to
take the IRG's work on these subjects into
full account and to closely coordinate its
activities with the Department of Energy
on these matters. I expect that the Com-
mission's studies will serve as a useful sup-
plement to the IRG's fundamental role
in developing administration policy re-
garding nuclear waste management.
The policy being developed by the IRG
is of paramount importance to me and to
the Nation in reaching a viable resolution
of nuclear waste problems. I look forward
to receiving the IRG report in the near
future, confident that the studies to be
done by the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission under this bill will contribute to
those solutions.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2584 is Public Law 95-
601, approved November 6.
Veto of Bill Concerning Tax
Structure in United States
Territories
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 13719.
November 8, 1978
I have withheld my approval of H.R.
13719, which would have authorized spe-
cial Federal payments to Guam and the
I
1971
