Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 12
budget has been to increase the portion of
each major agency's budget that goes into
basic research and development. This is
carried out not only within government
in laboratories and so forth but with di-
rect grants to colleges and universities, in
addition to that, in some appropriate
ways, to encourage business through gov-
ernment sharing of costs to improve re-
search and development.
I would say that the countries that have
maintained a high commitment to re-
search and development have a tendency
to have much higher productivity. I think
we might be suffering in 1978 because 15
years ago, there was a lessening in
research and development commitment
among business.
One reason, of course, is the extreme in-
centive that permeated the American sci-
entific and technological industries with
the space program, when during the six-
ties, we had a major thrust there. And
this permeated the whole structure of our
economy, not only in electronics, com-
puters, but also in health care and other
factors.
So, I'd say research and development
is a very fruitful investment. And we're
trying to turn that trend around.
We have an opportunity in some areas
to do this again. I don't mean to put an-
other man on Mars instead of the Moon,
but in the energy field, for instance. And
we are exploring now how we can have
a composite, focused R. & D. program to
alleviate our energy shortage and to make
us more self-sufficient. But that, in itself,
would stimulate our whole economy,
would give a spirit of adventure and en-
trepreneurship to leaders in business and
the professions and, I think, would pay
rich dividends in the future in the rate of
increase of our own productivity.
We've got a stable country. We've got a
very strong country. And although we
sometimes tend to emphasize, through the
news media and through the statements
of farmers like myself, through statements
that come out of Wall Street or major
corporations, the temporary aberrations
or the temporary disappointments or the
temporary statistics that show a negative
factor, in general, ours is still the strongest
nation on Earth, the best nation on
Earth.
We're blessed with natural resources
that many others don't have. And our sys-
tem of government, I think, is obviously
the best in the world. So, we've got a lot
to be thankful for, even though we do suf-
fer on occasion from temporary setbacks
that are transient in nature.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:30 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Wal-
ter W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on August 12.
American Indian Religious
Freedom
Statement on Signing S.J. Res. 102 Into Law.
August 12, 1978
I have signed into law S.J. Res. 102,
the American Indian Religious Freedom
Act of 1978. This legislation sets forth the
policy of the United States to protect and
preserve the inherent right of American
Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Ha-
waiian people to believe, express, and ex-
ercise their traditional religions. In addi-
tion, it calls for a year's evaluation of the
Federal agencies' policies and procedures
as they affect the religious rights and cul-
tural integrity of Native Americans.
It is a fundamental right of every Amer-
ican, as guaranteed by the first amend-
ment of the Constitution, to worship as he
or she pleases. This act is in no way in-
tended to alter that guarantee or override
1417
