July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing the tax burden on their shoulders and
away from the shoulders of the very rich,
the very powerful, and the very influen-
tial. And it would also result in a simpli-
fication of the tax system.
These are principles that I feel very
deeply about. In my opinion, as I ex-
pressed at the last press conference, I
believe, the Jones and Steiger amend-
ment would violate some of those prin-
ciples. I will have to wait until the final
tax package is placed on my desk, after
it's been considered and complete action
from both Houses of the Congress is con-
cluded. At that time, I will decide
whether or not that tax bill is in the best
interests of our country. If it is not, I will
veto it.
FEDERAL CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Q. What are you going to do, Mr.
President, to save your civil service re-
form? Or is it snagged now hopelessly in
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. The reorganization
plans in the House and Senate that relate
to civil service has been approved over-
whelmingly. The House recently took
action, I think 36 to nothing, to approve
it. This is a key element. The Senate
passed the reorganization proposal relat-
ing to civil service very strongly in the
committee. The only thing they changed
one element concerning veterans
preference.
The House Post Office and Civil Serv-
ice Committee has passed a bill last night
after long debate and some delay with
some very adverse attachments to the
bill, which we hope to get removed either
in the Rules Committee or on the House
floor or in conference.
This is a crucial element of my attempt
to control the bureaucracy in the Federal
Government, and it's such a burning issue
in the minds of the American people, to
finally do something about waste and
control of the Federal bureaucracy, that
I really am convinced that the House
Members and Senate Members of the
Congress will not go home to face election
not having acted upon it.
So, because of that, I believe that the
unsatisfactory amendments will be re-
moved, and I predict that the civil serv-
ice reform bill will be passed because it's
so badly needed and because the Ameri-
can people and I demand that something
be done.
OIL PRICES
Q. You told the economic summit con-
ference in Germany that the price of
domestic oil in the United States is too
low and the heart of your energy pro-
gram is to raise it. But how would con-
servation justify the hardship that would
have on American consumers and its own
inflationary effect as well?
THE PRESIDENT. The long-run impact
of excessive oil consumption and waste is
one of the major contributing factors to
the underlying inflation rate that we have
now. We simply use too much oil, we
waste too much oil, we import too much
oil. One of the reasons is that the price is
extraordinarily low. And I'm committed
to a comprehensive energy package that
I put to the Congress 15 months ago in
April of 1977.
The Congress has still not acted finally
on any one of the five crucial elements.
Conference committees have completed
work now on four of the five, almost com-
pleted. And the Senate has acted on one
of those elements. The one that the con-
ference committees have not yet consid-
ered is the crude oil equalization tax.
There are four basic ways, if I can
remember them all, where we can in-
crease the price of oil just to the world
level price to discourage waste. One is to
let the oil companies decide how much
1324
