Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 20
of American people to good health care
at a reasonable cost.
Since 1950, hospital costs have gone up
more than 1,000 percent. Well, the medi-
cal lobby and the hospital industry lobby
so far have been successful in blocking
this legislation. There would be a saving
for the American people in the next 5
years, if this legislation was passed, of $56
billion. Obviously, there's a lot at stake.
And so far, the consciousness of America,
including yourselves, has not yet been
aroused enough to convince the Members
of Congress that this needed legislation
should be passed. But it's time for all of
us to stand up to these special interests
and to all the others that refuse to look
past their own selfish concerns.
Another example of important anti-
inflation legislation is airline deregulation.
Many of you flew in here by commer-
cial airline service. One price that has
gone down in the last year substantially
is the price of an airline ticket on domestic
and overseas flights. At first, the airline
industry screamed that this would be dev-
astating to them. Many airplanes on
which I flew as a candidate for President
would only have 25 percent or less of the
seats filled. Now, because of reduced fares,
those same planes are averaging 75 per-
cent occupancy. Travel to other countries
is increasing rapidly. The average working
people of our country can travel in speed
and comfort. And the profits of the air-
line companies have gone up substanti-
ally. It's been good all around.
This has mostly been done by regula-
tory action, the Civil Aeronautics Board,
my own decisions, particularly in over-
seas flight. But shortly, perhaps even to-
day, the House will vote on an airline
deregulation bill that will put these enor-
mously improved practices into law and
make them permanent. We need to let
those policies be embedded in the law, so
that domestic airline fares can also be re-
duced by competition under the Ameri-
can free enterprise system. Government,
of course, cannot do jobs like this alone
in holding down unnecessary prices.
In fiscal year 1976, I began to study
how I might, as President, if elected, do
something about the very large Federal
budget deficits. I believe in a balanced
budget. When I ran for President, the
Federal deficit was in the sixties of billions
of dollars, $66 billion. In fiscal year 1978,
the first budget that I prepared, we had
cut it down in the fifties of billions of dol-
lars-51. Next year, fiscal year '79, the
Federal deficit will be down into the for-
ties of billions of dollars. And my goal for
1980 fiscal year, which I'm preparing
now, is to bring the deficit down into the
thirties of billions of dollars.
This is in spite of the fact that we are
giving better services to the American
people, and in spite of the fact that we
will probably have a total of $25 billion
or more of reduced income taxes for the
American people. I'm determined to ex-
ercise discipline over the Federal budget,
even if it means saying no to popular pro-
posals on occasion if that's what it takes
to fight inflation.
We can get more out of what we do
spend if our Government is streamlined
and responsive. I talked about Govern-
ment reorganization during the campaign.
But it's worse by far than I thought it
would be.
That's why civil service reform is so im-
portant. We need a civil service system
that makes the bureaucracy manageable
and rewards good performance. The civil
service reforms will do this. The House
passed this bill overwhelmingly. The Sen-
ate has already passed it. And I believe
that if this is accomplished, we will have
a better Government while fully protect-
ing the rights of Government workers.
1549
