Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
This puts on my shoulders the responsi-
bility of having very close relationships
with the leaders of countries who are al-
lies of ours. I have met personally with
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt four times.
Every 3 or 4 months we have been to-
gether. We have frequent exchanges of
messages through diplomatic channels,
and we call each other, without any crisis
evolving, on the telephone fairly often
just to discuss matters that are of interest
to our people.
I was at Camp David this past week.
Helmut called me on the phone. We had
quite an extensive conversation. And I'll
be spending 2 days with him before the
economic summit commences. So, I think
that this constant exchange of informa-
tion, consultation, advice, on occasion,
criticism, is healthy and constructive.
Ultimately, in a democracy we leaders
are responsible to our people. And our
policies can't depart too greatly from
those that our people espouse. But I have
no concern at all about the stability of
our relationship, the commonality of our
interests and purposes, and the strength
of our cooperation at the government level
and on a personal basis as well.
I've had the privilege not only of meet-
ing with Chancellor Schmidt, but many
of the members of his Cabinet, some of
the members of the opposition parties.
And I think throughout that entire gamut
of responsible and distinguished leaders
of the Federal Republic of Germany
there's a common realization that what
I've said is true, that we share so much re-
sponsibility and opportunity, that we are
so closely intertwined in our destiny, the
shaping of it, and that the people de-
mand that we enhance our personal re-
lationships. And I feel very proud of this
relationship, have no concern about it at
all.
MR. GRUBER. In the foreseeable fu-
ture, Mr. President, can you imagine any
circumstances which might allow self-
determination in East Germany?
THE PRESIDENT. We would like to see
a unified Germany based on self-deter-
mination. That's our ultimate goal. And
we would contribute in any way we could
to bring this about. That's also the goal,
I believe, of all the Western allies. And
we hope that some day we'll see a unified
Germany.
ROLE OF CHINA IN U.S.-SOVIET
RELATIONS
MR. MERSEBURGER. Mr. President,
would you like to see China concerning
in relation to the Soviet Union, as a lever
to nudge the Soviet Union in the direc-
tion of confrontation or cooperation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be a
serious mistake for ourselves, for the
People's Republic of China, for the Soviet
Union, to try to play one against another.
We develop our relationships with each
country in the world on a bilateral basis,
what's best for their people and ours di-
rectly. We would never use China as a
lever against the Soviet Union. I think
the Chinese people would resent it very
deeply, and I think the Soviet Union
would also.
I think it would be a counterproduc-
tive thing for us. We want to have nor-
mal relationships with China in carrying
out the terms of the Shanghai Communi-
que, and we want to increase the cooper-
ation with the Soviet Union. But to play
one against another would be a very seri-
ous mistake which we would never make.
MR. MERSEBURGER. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I've en-
joyed it.
NOTE: The interview began at 3:33 p.m. in
the Map Room at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast on West German
television.
The transcript of the interview was released
on July 12.
1263
