Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
through the press because of political rea-
sons, domestically speaking, or other
reasons.
Although I'm somewhat discouraged,
we are certainly not going to give up on
the effort. Tomorrow, I will be meeting
with the Prime Minister of Egypt, Mr.
Khalil, who's coming, I understand, with
a personal message to me from President
Sadat.
We have a need, obviously, to get a
treaty text pinned down and approved by
both governments, and to resolve the very
difficult question of the so-called linkage,
whether or not certain acts in the West
Bank, Gaza Strip have to be taking place
at the same time the Sinai agreement is
consummated.
But regardless of temporary disappoint-
ments and setbacks that we've experi-
enced since Camp David, they are no
more serious nor of any greater concern
than some that I experienced at Camp
David. And we will continue to pursue
our efforts to bring about a peace treaty
there.
My reason for what optimism I keep
is that I know for certain that both Presi-
dent Sadat and Prime Minister Begin
want a peace treaty. I know that their
people want a peace treaty. And I think
as long as this determination on their part
is extant, that our own good offices are
very likely to be fruitful. So, I will con-
tinue the effort, no matter how difficult
it might be in the future.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, it seems that we are
all being asked to settle basically for our
present standard of living, something that
we don't find easy to accept after all these
years of expecting more. And does it seem,
indeed, from your anti-inflation program,
that either one has to get a promotion or
increase his or her productivity greatly;
otherwise there could be no more money?
And how important is an acceptance of
that to the success of your wage-price
standards?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we anticipate
that America will continue to be strong,
viable, prosperous, progressive, growing in
the quality of life of our own citizens
measured in a multifaceted way. We don't
anticipate a recession or depression next
year. The free enterprise system of our
country will still reward outstanding ef-
fort or outstanding ability, or perhaps
good fortune on occasion, and I see no
reason for despair at all.
Most people, many people, look upon
an effort to control inflation as a negative
or adverse factor in our country's life. I
don't look on it that way. It takes a
strong, viable, dynamic, confident nation
to deal successfully with the question of
inflation.
This is not something that has recently
arisen as a problem. The last 10 years
we've had an inflation rate of about 6½
percent, and I just think now it's time
for us to make every effort we can to cor-
rect it. But I don't think that the Ameri-
can people need to fear that if we are suc-
cessful in controlling inflation that their
lives are going to be constrained or less
pleasant or prosperous in the future.
My belief is that to the extent that we
are successful in controlling inflation, the
quality of life of Americans will be en-
hanced, not hurt.
SOVIET MIG-23'S IN CUBA
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
about the MIG's in Cuba. Have you come
to a decision yet on whether the MIG-
23's in Cuba represent any increased
threat to the United States? Have you
asked the Russians to take them out? And
2100
