Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
your own people? And a lot of it comes
from economists and experts.
THE PRESIDENT. I checked with
Charlie Schultze recently, and Schultze's
projections are still a growth rate next
year, if the inflation package is successful
as we anticipate, of about 3 percent. Some
have said lower, of course, but if there's
one group that has an extreme diversity in
analysis, it is economists. And I think that
this is something that we do not antici-
pate, a recession or a depression. If we
have a complete and abject failure in our
anti-inflation program, then I think a re-
cession or even a depression is a possibil-
ity-I won't say a likelihood. But I think
we'll be successful.
Q. But how about controls? Is that a
last resort? In case of a recession or a de-
pression, would you go for them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, mandatory
wage and price controls, I think, would
be counterproductive. And one of the
main reasons that I've discounted them is
that I don't think they would work. If
our Nation was in such a serious state, ap-
proaching a national emergency or dan-
ger to our own security, there might be
aroused in the public consciousness and
in the Congress such a commitment to
controlling inflation that mandatory wage
and price controls would be necessary, as
in the case of war, or something of that
kind.
One of the differences that exists now
with the experiment that Nixon pursued
with wage and price controls that were
mandatory is that I don't have the legal
authority to do it. There would be no way
to have a surprise announcement that
wage and price controls were being im-
posed on the economy by the Govern-
ment now. If that should become neces-
sary in the case of a serious crisis, and the
Congress began the long and, I'm sure,
disputed debates, then following that a
legal right to impose wage and price con-
trols would come. But we don't have that
option now.
Q. Well, wouldn't you want it on a
standby basis?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I'm not going to
request it, even on a standby basis.
Q. Mr. President, just to follow up on
that, the argument of it not being practi-
cal to talk about wage and price controls
now, because, after all, you don't have
the authority to impose it, how does that
gibe with the fact that you can always
have wage and price controls imposed
retroactively, so that if companies rushed
to raise their prices when talk first started
about it, they still wouldn't be affected
when you imposed a retroactive date on
it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't mind answer-
ing the question, Marty [Martin J.
Schram, Newsday], but this is kind of idle
talk, because I don't have any intention
of asking the Congress for wage and price
authority. I don't think the Congress
would grant it if I asked. And I have no
intention to do it.
Obviously, if you ever should make that
decision in case of a crisis, the decision
would have to be retroactive. You can't
do it prospectively, because that opens up
the possibility of massive price increases
just in anticipation of controls and also
to lay a basis for higher prices in the fu-
ture. But I don't anticipate that happen-
ing under any foreseeable circumstances,
as I say, unless our Nation is in a crisis.
stage and actually our security is in dan-
ger. I don't anticipate it.
Q. I just want to follow up on the same
subject. A lot of economists think that
there will be a recession next year, per-
haps not a deep one. And Alfred Kahn
said yesterday he was talking, as Helen
said, scare talk-that if your program
doesn't work and we just went along as
we have been, there would be a deep de-
pression. Is it fair to assume that you'd
2040
