Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 3
I'm also proud of my friend, Daddy
King. He is, I think, described pretty
well-if you will forgive my saying so-
as St. Paul instructed us. He has borne
all things, he's believed all things, hoped
all things; his love never failing, his
spirit triumphant, his voice still strong in
the praise of the Lord, whom he has served
all his days.
I'm also grateful that Henry Ford II
has come. His family's charities, often
without public knowledge or recognition,
have sustained many of those in this group
and those who are loved by others in this
group, when projects were looked on as
social experiments, experiments that have
changed our society. And I think that
Henry Ford himself has been a great
bridge between those who've been blessed
with material wealth and those who have
suffered from poverty and injustice. And
I want to express my thanks, as President,
to you and what you and your family have
meant and still mean to our country.
I'm glad to see my friend Andy Young
here. He was at the side of Martin Luther
King, Jr., during most of his ministry. He
was with him at the time of his death. As
our Ambassador to the United Nations,
Andy Young accurately represents the
principles that were the foundation of
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life. And he has
put forward our own Nation in its best
posture, depending on understanding,
brotherhood, love, compassion, nonvio-
lence, in the most effective possible way.
And I would like to mention Coretta
King, who out of her own personal grief
was strengthened and not weakened, who
assumed the position of leadership, and
who is trying now to share the dreams of
her husband with the rest of us and, in-
deed, with the whole world in creating an
international center to nurture the great
change which he fought for, prayed for,
and died for.
We are here today to remember Martin
Luther King, Jr., and what he stood for
and what his accomplishments were. He
brought together the conscience of white
Americans and the courage of black
Americans in a bond of love that broke
down the barriers that had existed for
centuries. He helped us to overcome our
ignorance of one another and our fear of
doing what many of us knew was right.
In a period of great hostility and difficult
social change, when many compromised
too much and others compromised not
enough, he walked a steady path of con-
viction. And our people, both black and
white, sooner or later learned to follow in
his footsteps.
He was not alone in calling on, working
for, sacrificing for the changes that he
sought, so that more than anything else
his own voice and the voice of his people
could be heard throughout this Nation,
throughout the world, and we're all better
for it.
Since the time of Christ, so far as I
know, there have been two major non-
violent revolutions. The first one freed
India from outside domination, when a
quiet little man walked the dusty roads
and preached the principle of nonviolence
and human love. And the other, led by
Dr. King, freed the United States, the
country which we all love, from the dom-
ination of racism and prejudice.
I'm grateful that the power of these
revolutions did not die with the men who
led them, who gave such eloquent expres-
sion to their goals and to their methods.
Unlike violent revolutions, the power of
nonviolence lives on. It does not depend
on the ability to accumulate weapons and
arms. It does not depend on hatred to
perpetuate it. It does not depend on terror
or maiming or suffering or death. It's
available not just to the strong and dom-
1703
