Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
legislation to improve the operations of
the Relocation Commission. The Commis-
sion needs to operate more effectively and
I look forward to working with Congres-
sional leaders such as Senator DeConcini
and Congressman Udall toward this end.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 2, 1978.
Veto of Bill Providing for
Maritime Industry Relations With
Federal Officials
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 11861.
November 2, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I am withholding my signature from
H.R. 11861, which would require the
Secretaries of Commerce and the Navy to
meet at least four times a year with rep-
resentatives of the maritime industry and
to submit an annual report to the Presi-
dent and Congress on their activities and
recommendations.
Both the Maritime Administration of
the Commerce Department (MARAD)
and the Navy already have numerous con-
tacts with the maritime industry and with
each other to study, develop, and imple-
ment the goals of the Merchant Marine
Act. Navy and MARAD are currently
working to improve their cooperation in
this area by adding the Secretaries of
Commerce and Navy to an existing inter-
agency advisory board on maritime mat-
ters. They are also arranging to have the
board meet at least four times a year, and
at least one of these meetings will be open
to maritime industry representatives.
In addition, in order to assure that the
concerns that generated this bill are fully
addressed, I am directing both Secretaries
to consult regularly with maritime indus-
try officials to discuss issues of mutual
concern.
In light of these actions, I see no reason
for this legislation. It is not necessary to
achieve our goal of an adequate merchant
marine. It would mandate a change in
administrative functions which are cur-
rently satisfactory. It is an undue legisla-
tive intrusion into administrative activi-
ties which are the appropriate responsi-
bility of the Executive Branch, and the
required report would be an additional
and unnecessary government expense. For
these reasons, I am disapproving this bill.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 2, 1978.
Veto of Bill To Establish the
Legionville National Historic Site
in Pennsylvania
Memorandum of Disapproval of S. 1104.
November 2, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I am withholding my approval from S.
1104, a bill that would authorize the es-
tablishment of the Legionville National
Historic Site in the State of Pennsylvania.
I am withholding my signature because I
do not believe the Legionville site is of
sufficient national significance to merit
the cost of establishing and maintaining it
as a national historic site.
The site does not meet the national
significance criteria for historical areas es-
tablished by the Department of the In-
terior. The Pennsylvania State Historic
Preservation Office judged the site of only
local significance. A National Park Service
report made in June 1977 agreed. Fur-
ther, the site has been altered by such
1926
