Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
broader and expected constituency. I
recognize it, and I have no objection to
that.
I was with Senator Kennedy the night
after the Democratic Conference ad-
journed, I think on Monday (Sunday) 2
night. And the following morning in a
nonrelated way, the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, Jim McIntyre and my
own Domestic Adviser, Stu Eizenstat, met
with Senator Kennedy and his staff to try
to resolve differences. The differences are
minor.
So, I think this is a healthy situation to
have within the Democratic Party. And I
think that the Congress will be the ulti-
mate judge of whether my budget, as
proposed, is fair and balanced and ade-
quate. I have not changed my goals
whatsoever. The Democratic Conference
endorsed those goals, either unanimously,
or with a 60-percent margin on the most
controversial of the issues. I am going to
have an adequate defense. I'm going to
meet our obligations to our allies around
the country [world]. And I'm going to cut
the budget deficit down below $30 billion,
and I'm going to do the best I can to
meet the social needs of our Nation. I'm
committed to that. That's what I'm going
to do. And I have no aversion to an open
and public debate, because I think my
positions are sound.
But the differences between me and
Senator Kennedy are very minor.
IRAN
tainly deplorable instances of bloodshed
which we would certainly want to avoid,
or see avoided, I think the predictions of
doom and disaster that came from some
sources have certainly not been realized at
all. The Shah has our support and he also
has our confidence.
We have no intention of interfering in
the internal affairs of Iran, and we have
no intention of permitting others to inter-
fere in the internal affairs of Iran. The
difficult situation there has been exacer-
bated by uncontrolled statements made
from foreign nations that encourage
bloodbaths and violence. This is some-
thing that really is deplorable and, I
would hope, would cease after this holy
season passes.
I think it's good to point out that the
Iranian people for 2,500 years, perhaps
as long as almost any nation on Earth,
have had the ability for stable self-gov-
ernment. There have been changes in the
government, yes, sometimes violence, but
they have a history of an ability to govern
themselves. And because of that and other
factors which I've just described, I think
the situation in Iran will be resolved suc-
cessfully.
OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, to what extent are
you concerned over the prospect of the
OPEC nations raising the price of oil this
weekend-reports are it'll be in the neigh-
borhood of 5 percent-the impact this
would have on inflation? And do you con-
Q. Mr. President, what will be the do- template any future actions to curb oil
mestic and international effect if the Shah
fails to maintain power in Iran?
THE PRESIDENT. I fully expect the
Shah to maintain power in Iran and for
the present problems in Iran to be re-
solved. Although there have been cer-
2 Printed in the transcript.
imports?
THE PRESIDENT. Most of our problems
with the adverse trade balances can be
attributed to oil imports, although we
have other problems as well. I certainly
hope that the OPEC nations will decide
not to raise the price of oil. If they do, I
hope it would be minimal.
2226
