Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 4
to make for it. I think it was the right
decision, although many beef producers
thought it was a very bad decision for me
to make. I feel a responsibility, though,
not to try to look at each individual deci-
sion on the basis of just whether it's po-
litically popular or not. There's got to be
a common approach to inflation, how to
deal with it, and sometimes even my clos-
est friends, sometimes among labor, some-
times among farmers-and I'm a farm-
er-will not like exactly what I do.
But I think that we can sustain food
prices at a much lower rate of inflation
the balance of this year. And the longer
we have experience in this administra-
tion, the better off we are.
I might add one other thing. We've
tried to get the Government out of the
farm business and to let there be more sta-
bility in marketing. We have world record
levels of agricultural export. We set a rec-
ord last year, even with very low prices
per unit. We'll break that record this year.
And instead of having the surplus sup-
plies of, say, food grains, wheat, for in-
stance, in the hands of elevator operators
and grain speculators, we've increased the
farm storage capacity substantially so that
farmers themselves who are keeping their
own grain off the market, so that they can
sell it at an orderly fashion, get the profits
themselves and not have the wild fluctua-
tions in the market caused by speculation.
I think whenever food prices go up and
down wildly, other prices as well, food
especially, the farmers don't benefit, be-
cause the prices generally go up because
other people are holding farm products
off the market deliberately or because the
farmers have had a very low yield. And
when prices go up, the consumers pay
more. When the prices come down, con-
sumer prices come down very, very slowly.
I think all these things that I've de-
scribed to you would prevent a continua-
tion of the high increases in food prices,
and I believe that the action that I've
taken to level off those prices in beef is
typical of the proper attention we are
giving to this question.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe one more.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Diane
Curry, Railway and Airline Clerks Union.
Administration officials have indicated
that consideration is being given to some
sort of incomes policy, whether guidelines,
controls, or selective measures in highly
unionized industries.
Would you comment on what form that
policy might take?
THE PRESIDENT. Any policy we work
out concerning inflation questions or em-
ployment questions would be done very
carefully and with close consultation of a
wide range of people. This would apply to
prices as well.
I would guess that a majority of the
American people would prefer to have
mandatory wage and price controls. I'm
philosophically opposed to it and will not
impose such controls unless our Nation
faces a very serious emergency or crisis.
There are no plans for any such measures
as you've described.
Barry Bosworth was mentioned earlier.
We do think it's better to have better con-
sultation among my top economic advis-
ers, including Barry Bosworth, who has a
unique responsibility to hold down infla-
tion, Charlie Schultze, who's my closest ec-
onomic adviser. I have economists, as you
know, who are head of the Commerce De-
partment and the Labor Department, and
of course, Mike Blumenthal, as Secretary
of Treasury, is another one who's very im-
portant in shaping my own policies. The
Vice President has served on both the
Budget Committee and the Finance Com-
1495
