Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
So, there are areas of agreement and
areas of disagreement. And as I said a few
minutes ago at the memorial to the Ber-
lin Airlift, I would hope that those of
you
who profit so much by the commitment of
the democratic world to basic human
rights would let your own voices be ex-
pressed clearly in your own commitment
to human rights, because you are a great
testimony to the benefits of freedom and
those rights that we all share together.
So, I think this is what you could do
and what I will do to help you.
QUADRIPARTITE AGREEMENT
Q. Mr. President, my name is Klaus
Teske. I'm a tool fitter, a toolmaker and
a works council chairman. My question,
Mr. President, is: What will the United
States do so that the four-power status
that was agreed for all of Berlin can also
be practiced in East Berlin?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have no
capability nor desire to intrude into the
affairs of East Berlin, except to let our
voices be heard and to join with other re-
sponsible authorities in carrying out the
basic principles of the agreements that
have been specified clearly-the original
Four-Power Agreement at the conclusion
of the war and the 1971 Quadripartite
Agreement as well.
On occasion these rights have been
challenged, the right of free visitation be-
tween the two parts of Berlin, the right of
the Western Allies to show our flag on the
daily trips into Eastern Berlin, and vice
versa. We have every hope that when a
disagreement does arise, that they might
be discussed freely and clearly, that our
voice might be heard without constraint
by the East Berliners, the GDR [German
Democratic Republic], and the Soviet
Union.
As you know, the GDR has no respon-
sibility at all for the administration of the
Quadripartite Agreement nor the moni-
toring of compliance with it. This relates
itself directly to the Soviet Union on the
eastern side. But I believe that at this
time, since the Quadripartite Agreement
was signed 7 years ago, that there has
been a great improvement. And when
problems do arise, as today, for instance,
when the GDR put obstructions in the
free passage of people on the autobahn,
that protests might be lodged, the public
awareness of the world might be focused
upon it. And I would hope that the im-
provements that have been made the last
7 years might continue.
I think, compared to the previous years,
including the terrible occasion of the Ber-
lished, the situation is much better than
lin Airlift, when the blockade was estab-
it was now (then).ยน And I believe that
the reason for that is that world attention
has been focused upon Berlin, its symbol-
ism, its importance to freedom, the cour-
age of the Berliners. And I believe that
this is the best way to bring about those
routine, methodical improvements that
have been our experience in the past and
which I hope will be our experience in
the future.
We will never yield in our commitment
to pointing out violations of the agree-
ments. And I believe that world opinion
and the strength of the Western Allies,
the courage of the West Berliners will
cause this change for the better to con-
tinue in spite of temporary aberrations or
violations.
That's the best answer I can give you.
It's not a very good one, but I think it's
adequate.
GERMAN ANTITERRORISM LAWS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Garlinda
Buchholz. I am a student. My question
is, Mr. President: Repeatedly you have
ยน Printed in the transcript.
1299
