Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Glacier Bay National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
Katmai National Monument
Proclamation 4619. December 1, 1978
ENLARGING THE KATMAI NATIONAL
MONUMENT
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In 1912, Mount Katmai gave vent to
an extremely violent volcanic eruption.
To preserve this excellent example of re-
cent volcanism and ash deposition, Kat-
mai National Monument was established
in 1918. In the ensuing years it was rec-
ognized that in addition to the volcanoes,
the area included a significant popula-
tion of Alaskan brown bear and impor-
tant spawning grounds for the Bristol Bay
red salmon. The area was enlarged in
view of these features in 1931, 1942 and
1969.
Continued research has revealed that
the bear population is more mobile than
originally believed. By the addition made
hereby, a viable gene-pool population of
the Alaskan brown bear can be protected
free from human harassment. The addi-
tion closes a fifteen mile gap between the
former monument boundary and the Mc-
Neil River State Game Sanctuary thereby
completing the protection of the range
of this population of the world's largest
carnivore.
The enlargement also protects the
headwaters of the drainages which pro-
vide the spawning grounds for the red
salmon. By protecting the quality of the
water in these watersheds, the drama of
the salmon run, a phenomenon of great
scientific interest over the years, may be
perpetuated.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of
the biologic and other phenomena enu-
merated above supports now, as it has in
the past, the unique subsistence culture of
the local residents. The continued exist-
ence of this culture, which depends on
subsistence hunting, and its availability
for study, enhance the historic and sci-
entific values of the natural objects pro-
tected herein, because of the ongoing in-
teraction of the subsistence culture with
those objects. Accordingly, the opportu-
nity for local residents to engage in sub-
sistence hunting is a value to be protected
and will continue under the administra-
tion of the area added to Katmai National
Monument by this Proclamation.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all cases
shall be confined to the smallest area com-
patible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section
2127
