Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 28
Act, as amended, from this date and for
30 days after the board has made its re-
port to the President, no change, except by
agreement, shall be made by the Norfolk
and Western Railway Company, or by its
employees, in the conditions out of which
the dispute arose.
The White House,
September 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5 p.m., September 28, 1978]
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Appointment of the Membership.
September 28, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of the three members of the
Emergency Board to investigate the Nor-
folk and Western labor dispute. They are:
Paul H. Hanlon, of Portland, Oreg., to
be Chairman of the Emergency Board.
Hanlon has served as Chairman of four
previous Emergency Boards under the
Railway Labor Act and is the impartial
umpire under the Ford/United Auto
Workers contract. He is a member and
former officer of the National Academy of
Arbitrators.
Jerre S. Williams, of Austin, Tex. Wil-
liams is a professor of law at the Univer-
sity of Texas. He has previously served on
Emergency Boards under the Railway
Labor Act. He is vice president of the
National Academy of Arbitrators and an
author of several books on labor law. He
was the first Chairman of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States, serv-
ing from 1967 to 1970.
Jacob Seidenberg, of Falls Church, Va.
Seidenberg is an attorney and holds a
Ph. D. in economics. He is a former Chair-
man of the Federal Impasse Service Panel,
has served previously on Emergency
Boards under the Railway Labor Act, and
he is a member of the National Academy
of Arbitrators.
Multilateral Trade
Negotiations
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. September 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today submitting to the Congress
a proposal for legislation to extend for a
brief period the authority of the Secretary
of the Treasury under Section 303 (d) of
the Tariff Act of 1930 to waive the appli-
cation of countervailing duties. I hope
that the Congress will be able to enact
the necessary legislation before adjourn-
ment sine die.
If not extended, the waiver authority
will expire on January 2, 1979. This would
seriously jeopardize satisfactory conclu-
sion of the Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions (MTN) underway in Geneva.
Unless the waiver authority is extended to
cover the period during which the results
of the MTN will be under review by the
Congress, our ability to press ahead with
the negotiations would be sharply limited.
As stipulated by the Congress in the
Trade Act of 1974, negotiation of a satis-
factory code on subsidies and countervail-
ing duties is a primary U.S. objective in
the MTN. The United States is seeking
through such a code improved discipline
on the use of subsidies which adversely af-
1663
