Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 30
ondly, do you see the events in China as
an outcome of your human rights policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I could make a career
out of responding to all the criticisms-
[laughter] that are made and comments
made by other political figures, even in-
cluding ex-Presidents. I don't intend to
do so.
I personally think the human rights pol-
icy of our Government is well advised and
has had broad-ranging, beneficial effect.
I don't claim credit for the American hu-
man rights policy when political prisoners
are released from certain countries or
when those countries move toward more
democratic means, or even when as is
in the case of China now-there are pub-
lic and apparently permitted demands or
requests for more democratic government
policies and enhanced human rights.
But I think our policy is right. It's well
founded. It's one that I will maintain
tenaciously, and I think it's demonstrated
around the world that it's already had
good effect.
RELIGIOUS CULTS
Q. Mr. President, I want to ask about
Guyana. Do you think that the nature of
that cult says anything about America?
And secondly, what can the Government
do to avoid future Jonestowns?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I obviously
don't think that the Jonestown cult was
typical in any way of America. I think
these were people who became obsessed
with a particular leader's philosophy.
They were obviously misled; a tragedy
resulted. It did not take place in our own
country. In retrospect, all of us can de-
plore what did occur.
It's unconstitutional for the Govern-
ment of our country to investigate or to
issue laws against any group-no matter
how much they might depart from nor-
mal custom-which is based on religious
belief. The only exception is when there
is some substantive allegation that the ac-
tivities of those religious groups directly
violate a Federal law.
I might point out that Congressman
Ryan and other Congressmen did go to
the Justice Department several weeks or
months ago to go into the so-called brain-
washing aspects of a few religious cults
around the country. My understanding is
that the so-called People's Temple was
not one of those thought by them at that
time to be indulging in brainwashing. It
was a recent, late development that no
one, so far as I know, was able to antici-
pate or assess adequately.
So, I don't think that we ought to have
an overreaction because of the Jonestown
tragedy by injecting government into try-
ing to control people's religious beliefs.
And I believe that we also don't need to
deplore on a nationwide basis the fact
that the Jonestown cult, so-called, was
typical of America, because it's not.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, where do we stand
on a Middle East accord between Egypt
and Israel, and what can you or are you
doing to try to bring the two parties
together?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are negotiat-
ing and communicating with both the
leaders of Israel and Egypt on a constant
and sustained basis. I have been dissatis-
fied and disappointed at the length of
time required to bring about a peace
treaty that was signed by both Israel and
Egypt. I've already outlined in the past
my assessment of why this delay has taken
place, as contrasted with Camp David.
I'm not dealing directly with the princi-
pals simultaneously, and a lot of the nego-
tiation has, unfortunately, been conducted
2099
