Nov. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
continuing our discussions with the Soviet
Union on a wide range of subjects, SALT
being the most important of all.
And we are also engaged in pursuing
our own Nation's influence in Rhodesia,
in Namibia, trying to bring about a set-
tlement of the disputes in Nicaragua. We
are actively engaged in all of those.
These are some of the kinds of ques-
tions that come before me on a daily basis.
I think we've made good success in the
last 2 years. The 95th Congress record,
I thought, was superb. We have gotten
additional good information in the last 24
hours about net farm income going up
substantially. The rate of farm exports
has been growing regularly. And we've
got, I think, in general, a good record
there. Unemployment has gone down.
We do not anticipate a recession next
year. We'll be doing the best we can to
have a balanced improvement in the eco-
nomic situation in our country.
I think it might be best now to answer
your questions. And following this, I have
a very important meeting with my daugh-
ter, Amy, and with Mickey Mouse.
[Laughter] It's Mickey Mouse's 50th
birthday, as you may have heard.
QUESTIONS
RESULTS OF THE ELECTION
Q. Mr. President, does the conservative
trend in last week's election concern you
about your legislative proposals you are
planning for the next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not sure that
that's an accurate description. The trend
is much less noticeable than was originally
thought. There were some Senators de-
feated who were considered to be liberal.
But I think, in balance, the Congress at-
titude has not substantially changed. And
as you know, out of 435 Members in the
House, only 12 seats shifted toward the
Republicans, which was, I'm sure, a dis-
appointment to them.
I think, however, that liberals and con-
servatives, Democrats and Republicans,
got a clear message from the electorate-
during the campaign, primarily, not just
the results of the campaign-that tight
budget constraints are in order, control of
inflation is the top priority among poor
people and also those who are more afflu-
ent, and that waste and corruption in
government must be rooted out, and an
administrative capability and efficiency
has to be demonstrated.
So, I think this has been obvious to us.
It was obvious to me when I ran for Presi-
dent in the response of audiences and
the kinds of questions that I got. And I
emphasized this, as you know, in my own
campaign platform commitments. But I
think that message has come through
loud and clear without regard to the po-
litical spectrum placement.
VISIT TO MEXICO
Q. Mr. President, your next visit to
Mexico is the oil issue or illegals' en-
trance on the agenda?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not yet
worked out an agenda with President
López Portillo. But I don't have any
doubt that both those items would be on
the agenda, among probably 15 or 20
other things.
Q. Did you hear about the steel wall on
the border to stop the illegal entrance into
the United States? There is a tremendous
protest from Mexican Americans, Spanish
leaders.
THE PRESIDENT. You mean the fence
that was-
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that was a seri-
ous mistake. It was something that I
never knew about until I read about it
in the newspaper. But any sort of fencing
2062
