Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
and inefficiency. These are the kinds of
things that we're trying to do to get com-
passion, on the one hand, and compe-
tence, on the other, blended in together.
I need all the help I can get. Do you
care enough about your country between
now and next Tuesday to work hard to
elect Abner Mikva to help me get infla-
tion under control? [Applause] Good deal.
Ever since I've been in office, we've
been building housing units at the rate of
over 2 million per year, a very fine
achievement. In addition to that, yester-
day I signed into law the finest pair of
education bills that have ever been passed
in our country, to help from kindergarten,
elementary, secondary schools, college-
over $12 billion to give young people a
better education in our Nation. We are
not cutting back on good services for the
American people.
So, we're cutting the deficit; we're giv-
ing better services; we're also cutting
also cutting
taxes. Last year we cut income taxes $8
billion. This year we're cutting taxes $20
billion more. That's a good combina-
tion-lower deficits, better services, lower
taxes. I need your help to keep Abner
Mikva in Congress. Will you work be-
tween now and next Tuesday to keep him
there to help me carry on this program
economically? [Applause]
I just want to ask you one more ques-
tion. Alex Seith, Mike Bakalis, Abner
Mikva, as well as your incumbent Sena-
tor, Adlai Stevenson, would help me to
form and to keep an outstanding Demo-
cratic team, a team of elected officials,
responsible to you, to make our Nation as
great as possible.
We now have the strongest nation on
Earth-militarily, economically, politi-
cally.
Our political system has been damaged
in the last few years. Think back 3 years
ago. There was a great alienation of
American people from government. We
had been embarrassed by a war in Viet-
nam. We had been embarrassed by the
revelations of Watergate. We had been
embarassed by knowledge that our own
CIA had violated the law.
There was a general distrust of the
American Government. Every fall, I
dreaded to see the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly meet, because I knew that
the United States, the country that I
loved, would be the butt of every joke, the
target of every attack by two-thirds of the
nations on Earth.
Farmers were facing another depres-
sion. Workers were discouraged.
These kinds of things had created in
our own Nation's image a reasonable
doubt among people of our country. We
were attaching ourselves to every totali-
tarian government and tinhorn dictator-
ship possible, with almost no attention to
the preservation and enhancement of
basic human rights.
We now have the strongest military de-
fense capability on Earth. We're going to
stay number one. But we use it not to
abuse other people, not to be a bully; we
use this strength, combined with our
economic strength and combined with our
political and moral and ethical strength,
to show the rest of the world that our
Nation is honest, our Nation is competent,
our Nation is decent.
And we have reraised the banner of
human rights. And as long as I'm Presi-
dent, our country will be in the forefront
and will be known by every nation on
Earth as a people who stand and will pro-
tect and will enhance basic human rights
everywhere on Earth. And you can de-
pend on that.
For about 2,500 years the Middle East
has been torn by distrust, by hatred, and
by war. Finally, about a year ago, there
was a move made by President Anwar
Sadat to bring peace between Israel and
Egypt. A very courageous Prime Minister
1939
