Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 12
increase of over 62 million jobs, never
before this many added so rapidly, and
the unemployment rate has dropped al-
most a full 2 percentage points-still
pockets of very serious unemployment.
And we are trying to address the inflation
problem and unemployment, adverse
trade balances, management of the Gov-
ernment-all these things as one compre-
hensive package.
I'll be glad to answer any questions
from you now, and we'll try to break this
up 2 or 3 minutes early so that I might get
an individual photograph with you, all of
you, if you have no objection.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, our magazine is re-
leasing a survey this weekend on energy,
a survey of U.S. and foreign editors, and
it shows the foreigners are more con-
cerned than Americans about energy, not
only about when the oil will run out but
about the devastating effects on the dol-
lar. And my question is why you haven't
tied the dollar sickness more to the energy
imports we have and, also, whether you
have any plans to step up your efforts to
get your energy program adopted, per-
haps through town meetings or those
phone-a-thons that you did so well early
in your administration.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe I've
ever had a town meeting that we haven't
made this basic thrust in my carefully
prepared agenda for the meeting ahead
of time. I answer questions, but I gen-
erally have an opening comment. I've had
three fireside chats since I've been in of-
fice; two of them have been exclusively
on energy. I've had one address to the
Congress, other than my State of the
Union message. That only address to the
Congress has been on energy.
And every time I go overseas, it's obvi-
ous to me that the foreign leaders share
my concern about energy. Unfortunately,
we've not been able to sustain the con-
cern among the American public about
how serious overuse of energy is and
oversupplies of energy from foreign
sources are to the integrity of our own
economic system. I think a lot of foreign
leaders and people throughout the world
see this as a sign of weakness on the part
of our country, a lack of will to address
a very difficult and challenging problem.
We have worked without ceasing,
really for 20 months, even more. We be-
gan before I was inaugurated to bring to
the Congress and to the people, for the
first time, an energy policy. The shortage
has been evident since, I'd say, no later
than 1973. And the Congress is address-
ing it. But I think the American people,
since they don't have demonstrable short-
ages, they don't have lines at the service
station, they don't have interruptions of
electricity to their homes, their houses
don't get cold in the winter, in most in-
stances they have not yet realized how
serious it is.
But the deterioration of the dollar over-
seas is directly attributable to this factor;
there are obviously some other factors.
And the weakening of economic esteem
for our country is directly attributable to
this factor, and the high inflation rate
that we experience is attributable to the
same factor-overimport, overwaste of
energy.
Obviously, in every case there are
other factors as well. But we are trying to
dramatize it. And this is one thing you can
certainly do. I think your article-al-
though I don't have any idea what it will
be-will help to do this. But there's been
an escalation and a waning of interest in
the energy problem.
Hamilton Jordan, who is one of my
chief aides, did an analysis, I think, about
1411
