Nov. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Tunisia has great consideration. It gives
me again the opportunity to express to
you the deep appreciation we feel for the
task you have undertaken for the prosper-
ity of the American people and the ad-
vent of peace in the world.
Mr. President, America concerns all of
us, all those who want harmonious devel-
opment in the world, nuclear peace, the
suppression of crisis in the Middle East as
well as in Africa, the spiritual and mate-
rial ascent of the Third World, and the
making available to men of the phenom-
enal conquest of technology. All those can
only follow with sustained interest every-
thing that the United States is doing at
home and overseas.
Since you assumed the leadership of the
great American people, new develop-
ments have marked the evolution of the
world. There is a new will, a new sensi-
tivity inspiring the policies of the United
States. We have come to learn the scope
of this huge task whose essential objective
is to ensure the survival of man and his
fulfillment in security and dignity.
In turn, we shall tell you how we feel
about the situation in our own geopoliti-
cal context, speaking from the perspective
of an Arab and African nation, basing
ourselves upon our own realities and ex-
perience. I look forward to receiving your
impressions and those of the American
leaders, and I do not doubt that our meet-
ings will have a very fruitful outcome.
As I thank you again, Mr. President,
for the great welcome you have extended
to me, to my wife, and to my delegation,
allow me to renew the best wishes of
Tunisia to the 200 million Americans
who, for us Tunisians, are 200 million
friends.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:39 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. Prime
Minister Nouira spoke in French, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter.
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a White House Briefing for the
Organization's Executive Committee and State
Chairpersons. November 29, 1978
Well, it's good to come over here and
meet with my partners. I think we have
had a good first 2 years, a very successful
campaign and election earlier this month.
And I think we face the future with a
realization of difficulties, no greater than
the ones we inherited 2 years ago, but
with the same degree of common purpose,
confidence, and natural strength.
After I finish my very brief remarks, Stu
Eizenstat and Alfred Kahn will go into
some depth with you and answer ques-
tions about what we have in mind con-
cerning the control of inflation, which is
our number one economic problem in our
country.
I think it's obvious that we are deter-
mined to control inflation. It will be a
subject of the greatest and most intense
analysis, of common concert and effort on
the part of all my administrative officials.
I think the last results of the November
elections showed that the Nation is deeply
concerned about it. And we as Democrats
know that those who suffer most from un-
controlled inflation are the very ones
about whom we care most deeply. Those
who are secure, who are influential, who
are wealthy, who are highly educated, who
are mobile, can accommodate the constant
pressures of reduced monetary values
much easier than those who are poor,
elderly, inarticulate, who have one nar-
rowly defined capability to earn one's liv-
ing, or who live on a fixed income and
can't escape the increasing pressures that
grow on them month by month. I don't
see any incompatibility between meeting
the basic needs of those constituencies and
an effort to control inflation.
2092
