July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
American athletes will participate in the
1980 Olympics.
RODRIGUEZ CASE IN DALLAS
Q. Mr. President, Ben Reyes, a Mex-
ican American in the Texas Legislature,
said today that you called him to express
your embarrassment about Attorney Gen-
eral Griffin Bell's decision not to initiate
Federal prosecution of the Dallas police-
man who shot a 12-year-old Mexican
American boy while handcuffed in the
rear seat of a patrol car.
Are you embarrassed by this politi-
cally sensitive decision, and did you either
ask the Justice Department to prosecute
the case or express your disapproval
when Mr. Bell declined prosecution?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in
Texas a few weeks ago, I studied the de-
tails of this case. It's one of about 150
cases that the Justice Department has
been reexamining to make sure that there
was no deprivation of the political rights
or criminal justice rights or civil rights
of people because who are minorities
or who speak Spanish.
I think the Justice Department has
done a good job. This was a particularly
disturbing case, because the person
killed was only 12 years old. He was
handcuffed, in the custody of police offi-
cers. At that time, I called Griffin Bell,
the Attorney General, and told him I
was deeply concerned about it and asked
him to look into the case personally. He
promised me that he would, and he did.
I did not ask Griffin Bell nor his sub-
ordinates to either prosecute or not
prosecute. This is a legal decision over
which the President has no control. It's
one made by the Justice Department
officials themselves. They have decided
not to prosecute this case further.
It's a very complicated legal issue. The
primary reason that they quoted was that
there was an enthusiastic prosecution of
this case by the State officials. The rela-
tively low sentence, I think a 5-year im-
prisonment for this death, was granted by
the jury, and because of that, the Justice
Department decided not to prosecute un-
der the present provisions of the law. But
I have no authority nor inclination to di-
rect the Justice Department to reverse
their decision.
SOVIET DISSIDENTS
Q. Mr. President, are you aware of any
negotiations under way for the release of
Anatoly Shcharanskiy or Alexander Ginz-
burg?
THE PRESIDENT. No, not specifically. I
think it would be inappropriate for me to
talk about the negotiations that go on be-
tween ourselves and other governments
about release of prisoners in general or
specifically.
Q. In principle, is the United States
willing to negotiate the release of these
men?
THE PRESIDENT. We would like to see
the prisoners released, but I can't go into
that now.
POLITICAL PRISONERS
Q. Mr. President, there's been a lot of
talk about this term "political prisoner."
I'd like to follow up Ed's question. What
your definition of a political prisoner?
Do you believe that Ben Chavis of the
Wilmington 10 is a political prisoner or
is
not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's hard for me
to define in a brief period of time what is
a political prisoner. I think that if there
is a commission of crime involving vio-
lence, damage to another person's prop-
erty or health or life, and if they are pros-
ecuted for that under the rules of our
1328
