Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 2
I believe the best way to make sure
that we have equitable and fair treatment
in our country for average citizens is to
make sure that on election day your
voices are the ones to be heard. The voice
and influence of powerful, selfish special
interest groups are always heard through
high-priced lawyers and very effective
lobbyists.
The time for the average citizen to let
your voice be heard is on election day.
And I hope there will be a demonstration
next Tuesday that you really care.
When I was elected President, we had
10 million Americans who were looking
for a full-time job and could not find one.
The unemployment rate was 8 percent.
In the last 21 months we have added a
net increase of 6½ million jobs and cut
the unemployment rate 25 percent. If you
care about this kind of progress in the
future, then you yourself will vote on
November 7.
I've embarked, as you know, on a
tough, sometimes unpopular program to
control inflation in our Nation, to stabilize
the value of the dollar, to have integrity
and purpose and responsible monetary
policy for our country. If you care about
the maintenance of this effort and the
success of it, then on November 7, next
Tuesday, you will vote.
We have strengthened our democratic
influence around the world by bringing
our allies to our side in military matters,
in political matters, and-in a vivid
demonstration of cooperation yesterday-
in stabilizing the dollar, controlling infla-
tion, and having a strong, growing econ-
omy in our country. If you care about our
Nation having a good relationship with
our allies, in meeting our own needs and
their needs around the world, then on
November 7, next Tuesday, you will vote.
We've got a good path laid out for our-
selves. The Congress in the last few days
has finally passed, for the first time, a
national energy policy. Our deficits have
been drastically reduced. We've got a
good, sound anti-inflation program an-
nounced and making good progress.
Our trade deficits are going down. Our
exports are going up. The prospect for the
future looks good. If you care about this
kind of progress economically, that affects
every family in America, then next Tues-
day, you will vote.
On economic matters-controlling in-
flation, having a responsible monetary
policy-I mean business. I do not intend
to fail, and I will not fail if you'll help
me. And you can help by voting next
Tuesday. Will you do that for me?
[Applause] Thank you.
It's going to take a while. There are
no easy answers. We've had too high in-
flation for the last 10 years. We're going
to have some more high inflation before
we turn the corner and get it under con-
trol. Do not be discouraged. Stick with
me, stick with my program, and we will
be successful.
The last thing I want to mention is this:
Our country is strong. It's strong militar-
ily, the strongest on Earth. It's going to
stay that way. Our country is strong eco-
nomically, the strongest on Earth. It's go-
ing to stay that way. Our country is the
strongest politically in the whole Earth.
It's going to stay that way. We've raised
the banner of principle, of honesty, of de-
cency, of protection for human rights.
We're going to maintain that banner high.
It's going to stay that way.
But the only way we can keep this
strength and to make sure that we let our
Nation, which is already the greatest on
Earth, be even greater in the future is for
you to keep a Democratic team in office
and let your support be felt by voting next
Tuesday. If you do, we'll be successful in
carrying out our programs; you'll have a
better life; our Nation will be even greater
than it is today.
1931
