Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
gressman Pease, Jim Bauman, Henry Eck-
hard, State officials who have genuinely
made not only Ohio but the entire Nation
proud:
I'm grateful to be here with you. We
belong to the right party. Which party
has given Ohio two of the greatest Sena-
tors in Washington? The Democrats,
right? [Applause] Which party has now a
strong and growing majority in both
houses of your State general assembly?
[Applause] Democrats.
Which party now holds two-thirds of
the statewide offices and is reaching suc-
cessfully for 100 percent? [Applause]
Democrats. Which party recognizes that
one of the most important challenges of
this year is to have a man in whom we
have utmost faith, who cares about the
people of your State, who will occupy the
statehouse as Governor of Ohio? The
Democrats, right? [Applause]
One thing that concerns me is which
party is going to have a majority of Con-
gressmen from Ohio for the first time in
many years, maybe forever, who are Dem-
ocrats. The Democratic Party, right?
[Applause] We need to pick up the 12th
District.
And also, I'd like to ask you another
question. Which party has finally got itself
out of debt and tonight is raising $100,000
to give to candidates to win the elections
this fall? [Applause] The Ohio Democrats.
One of the greatest things is, which
party welcomed a lonely peanut farmer,
helped him get the nomination, and then
2 years ago, in November, gave our party's
nominee a strong, solid majority in this
State that put him over the top and let
him become President of the United
States? Again[applause].
The Ohio Democrats have made tre-
mendous strides in the past few years.
Paul Tipps' leadership was an incremental
part and an essential part of this progress.
But he knows even better than I can say
that one man can't turn a State political
organization around and achieve the tre-
mendous victories that you've realized
here in Ohio.
The Democratic Party has a certain
quiet strength that becomes aroused on
occasion when the needs are most visible
and most urgent. The Democratic Party
quite often is divided within itself. And al-
most invariably, that's the cause for losses
on election day. The Democratic Party,
quite often in different places in our Na-
tion, has not always been unified in its
efforts because of a divisive nature of
hard-fought, personal campaigns in the
primary elections.
You've now been able to overcome
these handicaps of the past. But never in
all the time of our party in the last 200
years, when it was in its unrecognized and
even embryonic state in the early years,
have we lost a vision of the basic elements
of what we stand for.
The Democratic Party is not one that
says no. We are a party that says yes. The
best to put our Nation's investment in
Democratic Party is one that realizes it's
people. We're not a party that reaches
down to others and considers them less
worthy than we. We are a party that
reach out to others and say, "Let me help
you join the part of constructive society
that's been such a blessing to me."
We're the party who believes that black
and white people, those who speak good
English, those who don't speak good Eng-
lish, those who live in the North and the
South, those who are employed, those
who are searching for jobs-all have an
opportunity to work together for a better
life for all.
On occasion, we've not been successful
in achieving these ideals and goals. But
we've never lost the vision of what ought
to be.
1621
