Oct. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dictatorship in the world, to the embar-
rassment of our friends and allies and the
American people as well.
Our farmers were facing a new depres-
sion. Their income was going down; prices
were below the cost of production. There
was a problem with exports. The Govern-
ment had its nose too deeply into the af-
fairs of the farm families. The wild fluctu-
ations in prices were exacerbated by em-
bargoes against the sale of American farm
products to foreign countries, not just the
Soviet Union but countries like Japan.
The farmers didn't know where to turn.
Human rights was a phrase that could
not have been used without laughter by
some of the high officials in our own Fed-
eral Government. There was waste, cor-
ruption, a steady stream of top Republi-
can officials going to jail. Civil servants
who give their whole careers to serving
others were not able to do a good job for
us because of a bureaucracy that was
strangling them.
The Congress had passed laws concern-
ing education, housing, highways, and the
Republican administration would subvert
the will of Congress, impound money re-
quired to be spent for the benefit of us
all by law.
The so-called free enterprise system was
increasingly deprived of a key element,
and that was competition. That is what
the Republican Party meant to our coun-
try. No person can change it. I don't claim
to have changed all that, but I do tell you
that a Democratic team-the President,
Vice President, Cabinet members, rein-
spired civil servants, Members of Con-
gress, Governors, mayors, county officials,
and average American citizens have be-
gun to change some of those aspects or
characteristics of our Government.
I believe it's now attaining a reputation
of a government that's clean and decent
and honest, and that accurately represents
the principles and the ideals on which our
Nation was originally founded. We've got
a long way to go. We are the strongest na-
tion on Earth militarily. We're going to
stay that way. But we're trying to use our
strength not to push other nations around.
We could have made a great deal out of
punishing the people of Panama. I could
have got a lot of votes by doing that. We
could have been a bully and gotten away
with it, and a lot of folks would have said,
"We've a great President now, because
we've shown those Panamanians that we
are indeed a powerful nation." But we
have not used our power in an abusive
way. We have used our power, our influ-
ence, our strength to enhance peace.
I thank God that since I've been in of-
fice, not a single American soldier has lost
his life or shed blood fighting in a foreign
country. I hope I can go out of office say-
ing the same thing.
But we've not only tried to provide
peace for ourselves; we've tried to use our
good influence along with our allies and
friends, not by ourselves—we've worked
with Great Britain to try to bring peace
and democratic government, one person-
one vote, majority rule to Rhodesia.
We're trying to do the same thing in
Namibia.
We've lessened the tensions, strength-
ened NATO, removed disharmonies,
and taken a step toward peace with Tur-
key, Greece, Cyprus. We're trying to re-
store normal relations with some of our
former adversaries associated with the
Vietnamese war.
We are negotiating every day to bring
a new SALT agreement between ourselves
and the Soviet Union to lessen the fear of
world destruction with nuclear weapons.
The Congress passed a new law, non-
proliferation bill, that prevents nations
that don't have atomic explosives from
ever having them. It has not been an easy
thing.
1900
