July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
you enjoy your visit to our Nation. You've
had other cultural missions here, and our
Philadelphia Philharmonic Orchestra has
been to the People's Republic, but this
is the most ambitious cultural exchange
that we've ever had with your country.
This is a good opportunity for us to
learn more about you and about your
people and to contribute to the friend-
ship that is building between our two
nations.
We admire your great performances,
and we believe that this will be one fur-
ther step toward full normalization of
relationships between the People's Re-
public of China and the United States of
America.
And now, I would like to speak per-
sonally to a few of you very famous
people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Ninth Anniversary of the
First Moon Landing
Statement by the President. July 20, 1978
Nine years ago today, the world paused
to watch two brave men tread the surface
of the Moon. It was a moment without
precedent in human experience, a mo-
ment when terrestrial life reached out to
touch another world. It is a source of
pride for us that those men were Ameri-
cans. Today, the lunar surface is criss-
crossed in a half dozen places with the
footprints of American astronauts and
implanted with a variety of American
scientific instruments.
The space shuttle, our next major
manned space project, will begin regular,
routine, economical operation in the
early 1980's. Through it, we will use the
vantage point of space to learn more
about the Earth's surface features and
processes and to improve our ability to
manage our resources and cope with nat-
ural phenomena. We will continue to de-
velop technology to realize the full
potential of space communications and
other practical applications of space
technology.
In the deeper reaches of space, we will
continue to seek to expand our knowledge
of the solar system and the universe of
which we are a part.
As time and technology take us ever
more deeply into the space age, it will
continue to be our policy to conduct op-
erations in space as required for our na-
tional well-being and to support the right
of all nations to do likewise. In so doing,
we remain committed to the underlying
principle of the exploration and use of
space for peaceful purposes and for the
benefit of all mankind.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JULY 20, 1978
DR. PETER BOURNE
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, every-
body. Before I answer questions, I'd like
to make one brief comment. Dr. Peter
Bourne, out of consideration for my ad-
ministration, has submitted his resigna-
tion this afternoon, which I have accepted
with regret.
Dr. Bourne is a close friend of mine
and my family. He's an able and dedi-
cated public servant. Because of this un-
fortunate occurrence, he has left the
Government.ยน
ยน Dr. Bourne, the Special Assistant to the
President for Health Issues, resigned following
the disclosure that he had issued a drug pre-
scription for an assistant without using her real
name.
1322
