Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
issues will require careful negotiation in
the months to come. The Egyptian and
Israeli people must recognize the tangible
benefits that peace will bring and support
the decisions their leaders have made, so
that a secure and a peaceful future can
be achieved for them. The American
public, you and I, must also offer our full
support to those who have made decisions
that are difficult and those who have very
difficult decisions still to make.
What lies ahead for all of us is to recog-
nize the statesmanship that President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin have
shown and to invite others in that region
to follow their example. I have already,
last night, invited the other leaders of the
Arab world to help sustain progress
toward a comprehensive peace.
We must also join in an effort to bring
an end to the conflict and the terrible suf-
fering in Lebanon. This is a subject that
President Sadat discussed with me many
times while I was in Camp David with
him. And the first time that the three of
us met together, this was a subject of
heated discussion. On the way to Wash-
ington last night in the helicopter, we
mutually committed ourselves to join with
other nations, with the Lebanese people
themselves, all factions, with President
Sarkis, with Syria and Saudi Arabia, per-
haps the European countries like France,
to try to move toward a solution of the
problem in Lebanon, which is so vital to us
and to the poor people in Lebanon, who
have suffered so much.
We will want to consult on this matter
and on these documents and their mean-
ing with all of the leaders, particularly
the Arab leaders. And I'm pleased to say
to you tonight that just a few minutes ago,
King Hussein of Jordan and King Khalid
of Saudi Arabia, perhaps other leaders
later, but these two have already agreed
to receive Secretary Vance, who will be
leaving tomorrow to explain to them the
terms of the Camp David agreement.
And we hope to secure their support for
the realization of the new hopes and
dreams of the people of the Middle East.
This is an important mission, and this
responsibility, I can tell you, based on my
last 2 weeks with him, could not possibly
rest on the shoulders of a more able and
dedicated and competent man than Sec-
retary Cyrus Vance.
Finally, let me say that for many years
the Middle East has been a textbook for
pessimism, a demonstration that diplo-
matic ingenuity was no match for intract-
able human conflicts. Today we are privi-
leged to see the chance for one of the some-
times rare, bright moments in human his-
tory—a chance that may offer the way to
peace. We have a chance for peace, be-
cause these two brave leaders found within
themselves the willingness to work to-
gether to seek these lasting prospects for
peace, which we all want so badly. And for
that, I hope that
that, I hope that you will share my prayer
of thanks and my hope that the promise
of this moment shall be fully realized.
The prayers at Camp David were the
same as those of the shepherd King
David, who prayed in the 85th Psalm,
"Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy
people may rejoice in thee? ... I will hear
what God the Lord will speak: for he will
speak peace unto his people, and unto his
saints: but let them not return again unto
folly."
And I would like to say, as a Christian,
to these two friends of mine, the words of
Jesus, "Blessed are the peacemakers, for
they shall be the children of God."
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:06 p.m. in
the House Chamber at the Capitol. President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin were present
for the address, which was broadcast live on
radio and television.
1537
