Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
exemptions from the usual requirements
for naturalization, including length of
residence and fees.
The White House,
September 18, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:13 a.m., September 19, 1978]
Superior Court of the
District of Columbia
Nomination of Peter Wolf To Be An
Associate Judge. September 18, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Peter Wolf to the District
of Columbia Superior Court. Wolf will
fill the seat vacated by former Chief Judge
Harold Greene, who left the Superior
Court when the President appointed him
to the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia.
Wolf, 43, received Bachelor's and Mas-
ter's Degrees in engineering from Cornell
University and attended law school at
Harvard. He has engaged in civil and
criminal practice since being admitted to
the bar in the District of Columbia in
1962 and is now partner in the law firm
of Wolf and Kovner.
Camp David Meeting on the
Middle East
Address Before a Joint Session of the
Congress. September 18, 1978
Vice President Mondale, Speaker O'Neill,
distinguished Members of the United
States Congress, Justices of the Supreme
Court, other leaders of our great Nation,
ladies and gentlemen:
It's been more than 2,000 years since
there was peace between Egypt and a free
Jewish nation. If our present expecta-
tions are realized, this year we shall see
such peace again.
The first thing I would like to do is to
give tribute to the two men who made
this impossible dream now become a real
possibility, the two great leaders with
whom I have met for the last 2 weeks at
Camp David: first, President Anwar
Sadat of Egypt, and the other, of course,
is Prime Minister Menahem Begin of the
nation of Israel.
I know that all of you would agree that
these are two men of great personal cour-
age, representing nations of peoples who
are deeply grateful to them for the
achievement which they have realized.
And I am personally grateful to them for
what they have done.
At Camp David, we sought a peace
that is not only of vital importance to
their own two nations but to all the people
of the Middle East, to all the people of
the United States, and, indeed, to all the
world as well.
The world prayed for the success of our
efforts, and I am glad to announce to you
that these prayers have been answered.
I've come to discuss with you tonight
what these two leaders have accomplished
and what this means to all of us.
The United States has had no choice
but to be deeply concerned about the
Middle East and to try to use our in-
fluence and our efforts to advance the
cause of peace. For the last 30 years,
through four wars, the people of this
troubled region have paid a terrible price
in suffering and division and hatred and
bloodshed. No two nations have suffered
more than Egypt and Israel. But the dan-
gers and the costs of conflicts in this re-
gion for our own Nation have been great
as well. We have longstanding friendships
among the nations there and the peoples
1533
