Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 8
No American family should be reduced
to poverty, or bankruptcy, or go without
needed health care because they cannot
afford the cost. We have begun the fight
for hospital cost containment. Next year
we're going to win that fight. This is one
of the essential steps toward reaching the
goal that we all share-to protect every
American through a comprehensive sys-
tem of national health care.
People in every American city are
struggling to raise their children in safe
neighborhoods and safe homes, where
teenagers can go to a good job, instead of
to a bad street corner, where there is sun-
light and open spaces and green parks.
These formerly hopeless and lonely chil-
dren are no longer struggling alone.
Federal resources are not unlimited, but
we are targeting new aid, and we have
forged a new urban policy. Our Nation's
largest city is putting its finances in order
and now facing its future with hope be-
cause the Democratic Party kept faith
with the people of New York. And I'm
thankful we did.
We have also begun the fight to bring
billions of dollars of private enterprise,
private investment to America's cities and
also to our rural centers through a Na-
tional Development Bank. Next year,
we're going to win that fight.
Let me say that our national heritage,
our natural heritage, is a gift to each gen-
eration. We have finally enacted long-
awaited strip mining protection. We have
strengthened standards for clean water
and clean air. And last week, we guaran-
teed the protection of 114 million acres of
our land in Alaska, our most precious
wilderness. This doubled our system of na-
tional parks. And with your help, this
administration will continue to keep faith
with the next generation by protecting
our environment.
The civil rights revolution liberated
both black and white, North and South.
My commitment as President will never
be in doubt. I will continue to uphold and
vigorously to enforce the spirit and the
letter of the laws of this land to ensure
equal justice and opportunity for the
people of America. I know you share that
commitment.
We will not close our eyes to 200 years
of systematic discrimination. We will pro-
mote effective affirmative action pro-
grams. We have already extended the
time limits for ratifying the equal rights
amendment. Now let us join forces to
wipe out discrimination based on sex and
make the equal rights amendment the law
of the land, and give voting rights to the
people of the District of Columbia.
The experience and the wisdom of our
older citizens is a priceless resource. Our
Democratic partnership has struck down
discrimination based on age. Retired
Americans deserve a life of dignity and
not fear. The social security checks of all
Americans are now guaranteed, not only
for today but for the rest of the century.
For too many years, the most idealistic
people in the world saw our highest ideals
betrayed.
Woodrow Wilson spoke for every
American when he said: "I would rather
belong to a poor nation that was free
than to a rich nation that had ceased to
be in love with liberty."
Our Nation, conceived in liberty, is
standing in defense of human rights. We
do not claim easy victories; but brave
people around the world who are
struggling to taste the freedom that we
now enjoy, they now know that they are
no longer alone. Thousands of prison
doors which once held innocent people
have swung open. And as long as I'm
President, America will continue to lead
the worldwide struggle for basic human
rights.
For many years I dreaded the autumn
sessions of the United Nations General
2193
