Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a professor of education, and legislative con-
sultant to the California State Commission
for Teacher Preparation and Licensing;
TOM H. RIDDELL, JR., of Canton, Miss., a
farmer and cotton ginner, and member of the
board of directors of the Mississippi Bank
and of the Mississippi Agriculture and In-
dustrial Board.
The President also announced that he
has designated E. T. Dunlap to be Chair-
man of the Board of Directors of the Stu-
dent Loan Marketing Association. Dun-
lap was appointed to the Board last June.
He is chancellor of the Oklahoma State
Regents for Higher Education.
Anti-Inflation Program
Letter to Heads of the Nation's 500 Largest
Corporations. November 15, 1978
As the leader of one of our country's
major businesses, you are fully aware of
the grave problems caused by the infla-
tionary pressures we are now experienc-
ing. You are also in a position to do some-
thing to reduce those pressures. I am,
therefore, writing to ask you for your
support.
I intend to do my part. I will do every-
thing in my power to combat inflation.
Our fiscal policies will give top priority
to containing inflationary pressures. I will
rigorously hold down Federal expendi-
tures. I will cut Federal employment. I
will achieve significant reductions in the
Federal deficit next year and thereafter.
I believe that the Congress will cooper-
ate, but if necessary I will veto inflation-
ary spending measures. I will subject spe-
cial interest legislation to severe scrutiny;
and I will undertake an intensive system-
atic effort to ensure that actions of my
Administration, particularly in the area
of regulation, do not raise costs and prices
unnecessarily.
Carrying out such a policy of austerity
will not be easy; but the task of fighting
inflation requires real sacrifices from all
of us.
No matter how much I do with Federal
fiscal policy and through other actions,
we cannot begin to deal successfully with
the problems of inflation without your
active support.
Our price standard requires your busi-
ness to hold its average price increase
over the next year to one-half of a per-
centage point below the average annual
rate in 1976 and 1977. If uncontrollable
cost increases make such deceleration im-
possible, it requires that you not expand
your profit margin.
My anti-inflation program is designed
to avoid imposing excessive hardships on
any segment of our population. It pro-
vides allowances for special situations,
where they are really needed. I will not
try to mislead you; complying will not be
painless. It will take a major and con-
tinuing effort on your part. But I believe
that effort is worth making for the good
of the country-and for the economic
health of your own business as well.
This program needs more than a gen-
eral pledge of support. I am asking your
company for an explicit statement of your
commitment to comply with the price
standard. I recognize that you may have
questions about how the price standards
apply to your firm and may want answers
before you can conscientiously declare
your intention to comply. The Council
on Wage and Price Stability is develop-
ing additional guidance you may need to
help you determine how you can comply.
Staff of the Council will be contacting
you very soon to give you this informa-
tion.
2054
