Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
prehensive information about imprisoned
Veterans.
I have directed the Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration (LEAA) to
compile accurate data about incarcerated
Veterans. I have also asked the LEAA
and the Bureau of Prisons to develop an
information dissemination program for
criminal justice system officials aimed at
informing Veterans of the benefits avail-
able to them.
IV. MILITARY STATUS
Ninety-seven percent of all Vietnam-
era Veterans received discharges under
honorable conditions after completing
service. It is only fair that those few indi-
viduals with discharges under other than
honorable conditions be presented with
the fullest possible justification for the ac-
tion taken against them. Because of the
serious harm such a discharge can do to a
Veteran seeking a responsible place in
society, the government must assure that
discharge review is readily available to in-
sure fair and humane treatment.
In this connection the Administration
will:
-grant assistance to Veterans seeking
discharge review. The Department of De-
fense has agreed to provide indices of
discharge review/correction board cases
to selective regional offices of the VA.
-submit legislation to modify the pro-
visions of PL 95-196 which automatically
barred VA benefits for combat Veterans
discharged because of unauthorized ab-
sences of 180 days or more.
CONCLUSION
No steps we take can undo all the dam-
age done by the war. There is no legis-
lation that can bring those who died
back to life, nor restore arms, legs, eyes
to those who lost them in service. What we
can do is to acknowledge our debt to
those who sacrificed so much when their
country asked service of them, and to re-
pay that debt fully, gladly, and with a
deep sense of respect.
The White House,
October 10, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Veterans Readjustment and
Career-Conditional Appointment
Program
Memorandum From the President.
October 10, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
A major goal of this Administration has
been to insure that employment oppor-
tunities for Veterans are concentrated on
those areas where there is the most need-
Vietnam-era and disabled Veterans.
As you are aware, since 1970, Federal
agencies have had the authority to ap-
point certain Vietnam-era Veterans-
generally with less than 14 years formal
education and within one year after sepa-
ration from active duty-to jobs at levels
up through GS-5. In turn, these appoint-
ments can be converted to career-condi-
tional positions. Administration supported
legislation now pending in House-Senate
conference would further extend and
liberalize this authority by allowing ap-
pointments up to GS-7 and by removing
the education limitation for disabled
Veterans.
In 1974, the Congress charged the Civil
Service Commission with responsibility
for the evaluation of this program as it
is implemented by your agencies. The
Commission is mandated with obtaining,
on at least a semi-annual basis, reports
from Federal agencies with respect to
their records on these Veterans' readjust-
1742
