Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the exact circumstances you describe.
Is that okay?
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mrs. Col-
bert.
PRAYER IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is Attorney Melvin Clark, Jr., and
I'm residing in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
I first would like to commend you on
your splendid efforts at Camp David. I
think I can speak for the majority of
Americans in saying that we are extremely
proud. I would like to ask my question
as a representative of the Church in the
Round, Aliquippa, Pennsylvania.
That question is simply, what is your
personal opinion on bringing prayer back
into the public schools?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Attorney
Clark, for your comment and also your
question.
I am not in favor of the Government
requiring prayer in the schools. At the
same time, I'm not in favor of the Govern-
ment prohibiting or preventing prayer in
the schools. My own religious beliefs,
which I think are compatible with the
Supreme Court decisions on this, are that
the first amendment to the Constitution,
separating the church and the state, must
be maintained.
I believe that prayer is a private rela-
tionship or communication between a per-
son and God, and that each person should
have a right to worship as he or she
chooses. So, I think that prayer ought to
be permitted in the schools, but not re-
quired for a particular student.
NATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM
Q. Good afternoon. My name is Alice
Feehley. I'm from Erie, Pennsylvania. I
have a question for you.
Considering your principles for the na-
tional health program, you say in it that
there will be no additional Federal spend-
ing until the year 1983. I want to know
if that means that-
THE PRESIDENT. No additional what,
Miss Feehley?
Q. Federal spending, okay?-until
1983; also that there is no adverse im-
pact on Government budget or the tax-
payer. Does that mean what we have will
stay in the budget of the Government
now, or does that mean we can expect no
tax increase or no new Federal programs?
THE PRESIDENT. That's an excellent
question, and one of the most difficult I
will get today.
Let me take just a moment to describe
the problem that we have. We need to
have some immediate changes made in
the health delivery system in our country.
We need to have an emphasis on preven-
tion of disease, the cheapest possible way
to ensure a person's health. We need to
have an expansion of the kind of people
who can treat illness once it occurs, un-
der the supervision of medical doctors
themselves, more use of physicians assist-
ants, registered nurses, laboratory tech-
nicians, in some instances, special in-
stances, and so forth.
We need to have more emphasis on
outpatient treatment and not require per-
sons who don't really need it to be ad-
mitted to the hospital at very large cost.
We need to fill in some of the gaps in
our present health care coverage, because
at this time, the bill for the Federal Gov-
ernment, including health programs, is
paid by those who are able to work and
pay income taxes primarily, and they are
exactly the ones that receive practically
no benefits from the Federal health pro-
grams.
Many people are not covered by private
health insurance. The most important
need we have immediately, though, is to
put a lid on the cost of hospital care. We
have a hospital cost containment proposal
1606
