Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 19
State for East Asian Affairs; and Michel
Oksenberg, NSC staff member.
"Criminal Defense Techniques," and au-
thor of numerous articles and a series of
children's books on the law.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission
Nomination of J. Clay Smith, Jr., To Be a
Member. September 19, 1978
The President today anounced that he
will nominate J. Clay Smith, Jr., of Wash-
ington, D.C., to be a member of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
for a term expiring July 1, 1982.
Smith was born April 15, 1942, in
Omaha, Nebr. He received a B.A. from
Creighton University in 1964, a J.D. from
Howard University School of Law in
1967, and an LL.M. (1970) and S.J.D.
(1977) from George Washington Univer-
sity School of Law. He served in the U.S.
Army from 1967 to 1971, serving as a
captain and, for a year, as a military judge
in the Judge Advocate General's Corps.
From 1971 to 1974, Smith was asso-
ciated with the Washington law firm of
Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn,
where he was primarily engaged in anti-
trust and trade regulation matters. From
1974 to 1976, he was Deputy Chief of the
Cable Television Bureau of the Federal
Communications Commission. Since 1976
he has been Associate General Counsel of
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion.
Smith has served as an adjunct profes-
sor of law at Howard University Law
School. He is a member of the Lawyers
Committee for Civil Rights Under Law,
and has served on the boards of directors
of the National Conference of Black Law-
yers and the Neighborhood Legal Service
Program. He is coauthor of the book
United Nations Day, 1978
Proclamation 4597. September 19, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The founding of the United Nations, on
October 24, 1945, was an historic attempt
to establish a framework for international
cooperation.
The nations of the world now face such
tasks as maintaining international peace
and security; promoting basic human
rights; building a better international eco-
nomic order; and allocating fairly the
globe's natural resources. The United Na-
tions and its affiliated agencies bring to-
gether representatives of all nations to
work together toward these goals. It holds
out the vision of a truly cooperative
world-a world at peace.
As one of its founding members, as its
leading contributor, and as its host coun-
try, the United States feels a special pride
in the Organization's accomplishments.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Tuesday, October 24,
1978, as United Nations Day.
I have appointed Clifton C. Garvin,
Jr., to be United States National Chair-
man for United Nations Day.
I urge Americans to become better
acquainted with the institutions that make
up the United Nations, to consider its role
in addressing the problems of global inter-
dependence, and to help it resolve the
1539
