Dec. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Yes, the consumers are unaware, and
Esther Peterson has said it very well. And
there are problems, social problems, eco-
nomic problems. But I do want to say
one thing, that if we are just looking
at inflation alone without concern for the
high unemployment rate, we're looking at
people, and we are saying, "Oh, you're a
consumer, you have to be educated." But
do we really realize that if you're working,
you're in a recession? If you're not work-
ing, you're in a depression? If you don't
have the purchasing power, you can't do
anything?
The city of Miami has endorsed a pro-
posed bill. I hope that this panel here
would take some time, as well as my Gov-
ernor, who has worked a hundred jobs,
and we'd like to provide hundreds of jobs
to help to implement the funding of the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill. The center-
piece of this bill is actually the priority
use of our money supply. And I cannot
take the time on this floor to go into it, but
we have a great deal of material. And I
was wondering if President Carter's atten-
tion had been brought to the fact that
there is a proposed bill to fund the Hum-
phrey-Hawkins bill, and the name of this
proposed bill is the socioeconomic growth
act. I don't know if he's aware of it.
[Laughter]
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. I
think he's aware of it.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me tell the dele-
I've been here. I'll read very carefully a
summary of everything that you say. I've
listened to it with an open mind and an
open heart, and, of course, participating
in the panel are very close advisers for
me that I see every day on consumer
affairs, economic development, all kinds
of economic affairs, and the control of
inflation.
But I'm grateful that you've come. I
don't believe anyone in this room thinks
that the mid-term conference is a waste
of time, because we learn from each other.
And I think we'll have a greater future as
a Democratic Party and a nation, because
you have come and contributed your time
to teaching us, to learning from us, and
to sharing a consistent and a continuing
partnership.
Thank you very much for letting me be
part of it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. in
Mezzanine Room M at the Cook Convention
Center.
Prior to the President's arrival, members of
the panel including Charles L. Schultze,
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advis-
ers, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President
on Inflation, Esther Peterson, Special Assist-
ant to the President for Consumer Affairs, and
Governor-elect Bob Graham of Florida-made
opening statements. Lieutenant Governor
Thomas P. O'Neill III of Massachusetts chaired
the workshop.
gates assembled here that I have to leave. Memphis, Tennessee
I'm trying to go to as many of the sessions
as possible.
I have really been impressed with this
one. I think that all of you have seen the
intense interest in the economic future of
our Nation, and the delicate balancing of
conflicting issues is one that ultimately
arrives on my desk. But you are expressing
your views clearly to me in the brief time
Remarks to Reporters Following a Visit to
the Site of the Assassination of Martin Luther
King, Jr. December 9, 1978
Q. Can you tell us about your visit
here, Mr. President? What prompted you
to come? I wonder if you would give us
a minute and talk about your visit to the
motel here and why you decided to come.
2218
