Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
son said he would never tell a lie." And
Mother said, "That's right."
She said, "Is your son absolutely hon-
est?" Mother said, "I think he's reason-
ably honest, yes." And she said, "He
wouldn't tell any kind of lie?" Mother
said, "Well, I think on occasion in his
life he's told maybe a little white lie." And
the woman turned on her tape recorder
very quickly. She said, "What do you
mean by a little white lie?" And Mother
said, "Well, just a little white lie." And
the woman said, "Well, define it for me,
define it." And Mother said, "I don't
know how to define a little white lie." The
woman said, "Well, at least you could give
me an example.” Mother sat there for a
while, and she said, "Well, I guess I could.
Do you remember a few minutes ago when
you came in the front door and I said that
you were a very attractive young lady?"
She said, "That was a little white lie."
[Laughter]
I'm proud of our Democratic Party of-
ficials. I'm proud of Bob Strauss, the other
people that serve with me. I'm proud of
my family—my mother, my wife, my sons,
their wives. I'm proud of the team that
we have created in the last 2 years to serve
our Nation.
Two years ago, I completed a long
travel through this country, promising the
people that we would try to create a gov-
ernment as compassionate and as com-
petent as were the American people them-
selves. Our party has always been known
as a party of compassion. But in the last
2 years, we have also proven that we have
a party of competence. Along with effec-
tive new programs, we've proved that the
Democratic Party is the party of fiscal
responsibility.
I would like to announce to you that
I've just received a news report from the
wire services-AP, UPI, Reuters, Jerusa-
lem Television, State Department, and the
OPS Center-that the Knesset voted for
peace, 85 [84]; against the removal of the
settlements, 19. So, we've made a great
step forward, and I'm very grateful for
that.
That's indeed good news, and it's sure
proof of the tremendous courage of Prime
Minister Begin, the Israeli members of
the Knesset who have now formed a pos-
sible partnership for the rest of our lives
with their neighbors, the Egyptians, un-
der the leadership of President Sadat. I'm
very proud of this decision by them. We've
got a great country, and we've got great
friends and partners around the world.
Ours has been a party that believes in
a strong United States, strong not just in
military weapons-we're the strongest on
the Earth in military weapons; not just
the strongest economically-we're the
strongest on Earth economically; not just
the strongest in our political structure, our
free enterprise system-we are the strong-
est politically and in our societal structure.
But we are strongest as well in our com-
mitment to basic principles which never
change,
change, principles that are challenged
every now and then under the most diffi-
cult circumstances by war, by corruption,
by embarrassment, by failure on the part
of some leaders. But the American people
always stand staunch and never falter in
our commitment to higher ideals and a
greater nation in the future.
The Democratic Party represents those
commitments, those ideals in the purest
sense of all. Ours is the oldest political
party on Earth. It's also the youngest
political party on Earth, always eager for
new ideas, always eager to meet change
without fear, always eager to reach a hand
out to someone not quite so fortunate as
we-not down with a condescending air
or as though we were doing someone else
not quite so good as we a favor, but a
party that believes in other people and the
fact that they should have a right to take
1646
