Aug. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
which you demonstrate every day with
your good work, the honesty and integ-
rity that you present to me and to your
other superiors, to the Congress, to the
public for critical examination.
You almost are in the position of being
like Caesar's wife; you have to be even
more pure and more clean and more de-
cent and more honest than almost any
persons who serve in government, because
the slightest mistake on your part is highly
publicized and greatly magnified, where-
as your great achievements and successes
quite often are not publicized and are
not recognized, and they certainly are
never exaggerated.
I'm glad that we have this partnership.
There is now a stability in the CIA which
has been brought by Admiral Turner and
So, as President of our Nation, as a
partner with you in creating a better na-
tion in the future, I express my thanks to
you for a superb job and my confidence
that you and I, Director Turner, and
others can do even better in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. out-
side the main entrance of the Headquarters
Building in Langley, Va. Following his re-
marks, he attended two briefings given by CIA
personnel.
National Hispanic Heritage.
Week, 1978
Proclamation 4585. August 17, 1978
joined by Frank Carlucci¹ that I hope By the President of the United States
will permeate your lives for many months,
many years to come.
There have been too many shocks, too
many rapid changes in the past, but the
policies that have now been established
by Executive order, by sound decisions, by
cooperation, and in the future by law,
will give you a much surer sense of what
the future will bring, will liberate you in-
dividually, in effect, to make your own
beneficial impact in our country be even
greater. I know how serious uncertainty is
in a person's life.
We've assigned to the CIA, because we
trust you, additional responsibilities for
tasking the entire intelligence network,
for preparing the budget under close
supervision, for better coordination
among the different agencies that have a
contribution to make to security. And I
am very pleased and very confident that
this new assignment of authority and
responsibility will be borne by you equally
as well as you have demonstrated your
ability to carry out functions of supreme
importance to our country in the past.
Director, Central Intelligence
¹ Deputy Director,
Agency.
of America
A Proclamation
The Hispanic heritage of 16 million
Americans is an essential part of our iden-
tity as a nation, and of our role as a leader
among nations. As we reflect upon the
countless historical, cultural, and scien-
tific contributions that Hispanics have
made to the development of our country,
I want to reaffirm my commitment to en-
suring the full participation of our His-
panic citizens in all levels of our society
and government.
Americans have had a unique oppor-
tunity to appreciate the values of a broad
diversity of cultures and the contribution
each makes to our democratic and plu-
ralistic society.
As we reach beyond our national bor-
ders to advocate the cause of human
rights, we must increasingly look to our
own Hispanic community as one of our
primary sources of advice and counsel,
particularly in the development of our
relations with other nations of the western
hemisphere.
1436
