Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
the tax tuition bill as proposed by Sena-
tor Moynihan of New York if it made it
through Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. For two reasons. One
is, I think that we should honor the con-
stitutional separation of church and state.
As you know, we are providing, under
rulings by the Supreme Court, a consid-
erable amount of different kinds of di-
rect aid from the Federal Government
to the private schools. I think it is best to
minimize the interference of the Federal
Government in the private school system
throughout our country
My own belief is that it is unconstitu-
tional for the Federal Government to sup-
port to a substantial degree the curricu-
lum and basic costs of the private school
system. In addition, we have allocated
for student aid, for scholarships, for loans
at the college level, a much more effec-
tive means of financing than just to pro-
vide tax credits. The tax credits them-
There are approximately 100,000 or-
thodox Christians here in the Pittsburgh
area, Mr. President. Many of us have been
very concerned with the treatment which
our brothers and sisters, the orthodox
Christians in occupied Palestine, have re-
ceived for the last 30 years at the hands
of the Zionist invaders, who have stolen
the land and evicted them from their
homeland.
We want to know why your adminis-
tration has not had the courage to stand
up to Menahem Begin and to the Amer-
ican Jewish community by simply cutting
off all foreign aid to the Israelis until they
give back all territories stolen from the
orthodox Christians and others in occu-
pied Palestine?
THE PRESIDENT. I thank you for your
very objective and unbiased question. And
I'll try to answer it as best I can. [Laugh-
ter]
I don't think that in addressing this
selves benefit too greatly the family which particular problem of the Palestinians, nor
is fairly well off.
And the focus of it is on the high-
income families, $30,000 or more. I think
as long as we have a certain amount of
either Federal tax credits or Federal taxes
that are collected and spent, that the
money should be channeled to help most
directly those families in the middle range
of income and the lower range of income,
where they need it much more. So, be-
cause of this strong bias towards helping
very rich families and my concern about
the constitutional provisions, those are
the two reasons.
Thank you, Mr. Mancini.
ISRAELI OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is James Hawkins. I'm from New
Sewickley Township here in Beaver
County. I wish to welcome you here to
western Pennsylvania.
in addressing all the broader interests in
the Mideast, that my administration or I
have been timid or cowardly. We have
raised, as you know, for the first time in
any administration, the basic problems of
the Palestinians who live in the region as
you described, without regard to the reli-
gious affiliation of the people involved.
Palestinian Jews, Arabs, and Christians
in my opinion should have a maximum
opportunity for a change, to escape the
military occupation rule and to have their
own government within which they can
manage their own affairs, religious affairs
and affairs concerning education, police,
highways, and the normal administration
of their lives.
One of the remarkable results of Camp
David is that everything that I have just
described to you has been accomplished.
And the Israelis, under their spokesman,
Prime Minister Begin, have agreed to this.
1609
