Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
Q. Do you think there's still any chance
that he'll form a civilian coalition gov-
ernment?
THE PRESIDENT. I think he has offered
that publicly. And as you know, yester-
day, I believe, he released two of his top
political opponents. And I think, I would
guess, surmise, that one of the reasons for
those political leaders being released was
to encourage them and their followers to
join in some form of coalition govern-
ment. That's the Shah's desire that's ex-
pressed to me personally by him and
through his own Ambassador here, and I
take him at his word.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE
NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, how important is it,
do you feel, for Israel to accept a definite
target date by the end of next year, for
example for the transfer to Palestinian
autonomy; how important to accept a
target date, as opposed to a more general
commitment that we will try to bring
autonomy as soon as possible; how im-
portant in terms of bringing Palestinians
into the process, bringing King Hussein
of Jordan into the process? How critical
do you feel is the issue of persuading the
Israelis to accept a definite target date
for transfer to autonomy?
THE PRESIDENT. I should make clear
that the United States does not have a
unilateral position that we try to force
or even encourage the Egyptians and
Israelis to adopt. Any mutually accept-
able agreement which could be con-
cluded between the Egyptians and the
Israelis would be satisfactory to us.
My concern, however, is that we would
like to see the Camp David accords car-
ried out, first of all, completely. I think
violation of the Camp David accords
any
would set a very serious precedent which
would cast doubt upon the present treaty
which is being negotiated.
We would also like to see the Camp
David accords carried out, not grudgingly,
but enthusiastically, in the same spirit that
we saw exemplified in the White House
when the accords were signed. This has
not been the case during the negotiations.
There have been unwarranted delays,
quibbling over what seems to us to be
insignificant language differences, and ex-
cessive public statements on both sides
that have made the negotiating process
excessively difficult.
We have made a proposal to the Israelis
and Egyptians of a peace treaty text plus
a separate letter which would endorse a
definite timetable on the establishment of
the self-government in the West Bank and
Gaza Strip. The Israelis adopted the peace
treaty text after they had previously re-
jected some of its component parts, and
did not adopt the crucial and integral
additional letter with few features in it,
the most significant being the timetable.
The Egyptians consider that the time-
table is a mandatory element of a future
success.
I'd like to add one other thing: If the
Egyptians and Israelis violate the 3-month
limit on negotiating this treaty, it will be
a very serious matter to us and, I think, to
them. That's why I am sending Cy Vance
to Egypt, and perhaps then to Israel. If,
because of mutual lack of agreement, we
go past December 17, it would cast doubt
on whether the Egyptians and Israelis
would carry out the difficult terms of the
upcoming peace treaty, and it would set
a precedent that would have far-reach-
ing, adverse effect.
So, we consider the December 17th date
to be very, very important, perhaps at this
point more important than Prime Minis-
ter Begin or President Sadat. I'm going
to make that clear to both leaders during
Secretary Vance's trip.
But, to summarize by repeating my first
statement, we don't have an independent
2173
