Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sponsibility you placed in me through this job of helping states and localities carry
appointment.
I believe that the programs I initiated
at your instruction are now in good order
and that the time is appropriate for me to
move to other activity in the private
sector.
I shall, of course, be available at your
call for any assignment you determine
will be of service to you.
Faithfully yours,
SIDNEY HARMAN
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20500]
out their responsibilities. As you know,
the Senate has passed the Department of
Education Organization Act by a large
margin. We believe that a large majority
of Members of the House support H.R.
14067. I appreciate your scheduling this
bill for floor action this week. I ask that
you bring up the bill on Thursday and
complete action that day if at all possible.
Thank you for all of your help.
With warmest personal regards,
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr.,
Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, D.C. 20515]
Department of Education
Letter to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives. October 11, 1978
To Speaker Tip O'Neill
The creation of a separate Department
of Education is one of my priorities for
the 95th Congress.
I have followed closely the progress of
H.R. 14067, the Department of Educa-
tion Organization Act, through the Gov-
ernment Operations Committee and Rules
Committee. I am grateful for your help
in obtaining a rule for consideration of
the bill on the House floor.
Education is an important factor not
only in the development of individuals but
of the country as a whole. I believe that
the current organizational status of Fed-
eral education programs is unacceptable
in a nation where all levels of government
invest substantially in education programs
while getting less results in the actual
performance and job prospects of our
students.
The running of local school systems is
the responsibility of states and local com-
munities. I believe that a Department of
Education will enable us to do a better
Inspector General Act of 1978
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
October 12, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I have been trying to
wait until Chairman Brooks arrived, but
apparently he is caught in the traffic and
won't be here for a few minutes. But we'll
go ahead anyhow, and I hope he will
come in before long. He's been one of the
originators and a strong supporter of this,
along with Congressman Fountain in the
House and with very strong support from
Senator Ribicoff and Tom Eagleton and
others in the Senate.
I think it's accurate to say that the
American people are fed up with the
treatment of American tax money in a way
that involves fraud and mismanagement
and embarrassment to the Government.
I consider and these Members of the
House and Senate behind me consider
the tax money to be a matter of public
trust. We've not yet completely succeeded
in rooting out the embarrassing aspects
of government management-or mis-
1754
