Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
expressions of concern and disagreement.
But this doesn't mean that we have differ-
ent policies. We have one basic policy that
is complicated in itself.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
MR. MERSEBURGER. There is some
European criticism of what is called the
unpredictability of the Carter administra-
tion. What is your response to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think any ad-
ministration must change with changing
circumstances. The world is a rapidly
changing place. We have tried to have a
policy that's clear. A basic principle is to
strengthen the alliances that exist between
ourselves and the European nations, for
instance. We also try to expand the area of
friendship with the newly emerging na-
tions of the world, the ones that in the
past have not been very strong or effective
or active but are presently increasing their
influence.
I would say that in Africa, Nigeria
would be an example of that, that Indo-
nesia would be another example, Brazil,
Venezuela, India, of course. We are trying
to improve our relationships with the
People's Republic of China. We have a
new interest in Africa, trying to preserve
peace there in Namibia, Rhodesia, in the
Horn of Africa.
We are trying to lower the level of con-
ventional weapons sales, reduce the level
of nuclear armaments. We have a non-
proliferation policy. We're trying to un-
derstand the economic interrelationships
that exist between the developed nations
of the world and between us and the de-
veloping countries of the world.
So, I think that all these matters that
we have addressed are individually differ-
ent from one another, but collectively,
they comprise the American foreign pol-
icy. It's very clear in my own mind what
we hope to achieve. We spell it out for
those who will listen, and with changing
circumstances, of course, in the future,
over a period of years, of course, our coun-
try will have to change its own policy. But
we are a leading nation on Earth.
I think our policies directly affect many
other people. And those many diverse
peoples look upon our country with differ-
ent perspectives. But there's nothing sim-
ple or easy about international economic
or political or military affairs. But I think
we have a very stable, very clear foreign
policy that changes in an evolutionary
way, not a revolutionary way.
U.S. ECONOMIC POLICIES
MR. GRUBER. You are going to Bonn to
take part at the economic summit. You
didn't finish your energy legislation. You
couldn't reduce your trade deficit. Would
you say you are going empty-handed to
Bonn?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I've reexamined
the commitments that we made at the last
economic summit in London. We prom-
ised to reduce the level of oil imports in
our country. We have done so. The first 5
months of 1978 our average imports of
foreign oil were about a million barrels a
day less than they had been during the
year 1977. We promised to do what we
could to reduce unemployment in our
countries. I've only been in office 18
months, but we have had a net increase in
employment in our Nation of 6.4 million
jobs. We've reduced the unemployment
level 134 million jobs. We reduced the
unemployment rate by 2 percent.
We've had good progress in the Con-
gress in implementing a national energy
plan. It has five basic component parts.
Already the conference committees have
approved four of the five. The net result
of this, when implemented, will be to re-
duce oil imports an additional 2.3 million
barrels per day. This is a very difficult
1261
