Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
help to ensure that regulatory objectives
are achieved at the lowest possible cost.
-Pledged to use his authority to en-
sure that regulations are issued only when
necessary and that they achieve their goals
at the lowest possible cost.
-Directed each executive branch reg-
ulatory agency to include additional reg-
ulations that have a major economic im-
pact in the "sunset" reviews that are re-
quired by E.O. 12044.
PRIVATE SECTOR ACTIONS
Success of this anti-inflation effort will
depend upon the cooperation of the pri-
vate sector. To this end, the President has
set forth explicit numerical standards of
behavior for pay and prices in the year
ahead.
Pay Standard
Annual increases in wages and pri-
vate fringe benefits should not exceed 7
percent.
-Workers earning less than $4 per
hour will be exempt as well as wage con-
tracts already signed.
-In new collective bargaining situa-
tions, a contract in which wage and fringe
benefit increases average no more than 7
percent annually over the life of the con-
tract will be consistent with the standard.
In evaluating a contract for consistency
with the standard, cost-of-living clauses
will be evaluated using a 6-percent-per-
year rate of price inflation over the life
of the contract.
-No more than an 8-percent pay in-
crease should be included in the first year
of a multiyear contract.
-Increases above the standard will be
acceptable to the extent that they reflect
changes in work rules and practices that
show demonstrable productivity improve-
ments.
-The standard does not apply to indi-
vidual workers. The standard applies to
average pay increases for groups of work-
ers. Firms will be expected to divide their
work force into three categories:
(a) management employees, (b)
groups of employees covered by separate
collectively bargained contracts, and
(c) all other employees.
Price Standard
Individual firms are expected to limit
their price increases over the next year to
one-half of one percentage point below
their average annual rate of price increase
during 1976-77.
-If wage-rate increases for a firm de-
celerate by more than one-half percen-
tage point from the 1976-77 base period,
greater deceleration in prices will be re-
quired in order to ensure that savings are
reflected in prices.
-The standard does not apply to spe-
cific products, but to a firm's overall aver-
age price.
-Firms unable to meet the one-half
percent deceleration standard due to un-
avoidable cost increases must demon-
strate, as an alternative, that their before-
the best 2 of the last 3 years.
tax profit margins are no higher than in
OBJECTIVES FOR THE PROGRAM
The pay and price standards have been
developed to be consistent with one an-
other.
-The deceleration standard for prices
can be related to the wage standard by
adding 0.5 percentage point to the 7-per-
cent wage standard to reflect scheduled
increases in legislatively mandated payroll
costs and deducting 13/4 percentage points
for productivity growth. The result is a
534-percent economy-wide rate of in-
crease in unit labor costs. If firms reduce
their average price increases by the price
standard-that is, if they reduce their
average price increase by one-half percent-
1846
