Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
adequate to bring down the inflation rate
next year.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Q. Mr. President, when do you think
the ERA amendment will be fully ratified?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. We've
been very pleased to have the Congress
extend the time for 3 years. But that's a
decision on ratification for the States to
make. So far, 35 States have ratified it.
Three more need to do so to make 38, or
a three-fourths majority. But I'm not
qualified to predict when those three
States might take that action. I hope with-
out delay.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Mr. President, how high a priority
do
you still set on the creation of a depart-
ment of education-first, at this session of
Congress and, if it doesn't happen at this
session, then the next one?
THE PRESIDENT. I have advocated and
have worked hard this year for the estab-
lishment of an independent department
of education. I don't think that education
in our country has gotten an adequate
hearing in my own administration or pre-
vious ones, because it has been a part of
HEW, with health and welfare the domi-
nant portions of that Department.
I think at this point, it's unlikely that
the bill will pass this year. The Senate
did pass the bill. The House was not able
or willing to take it up. But I still have it
as an important goal of mine to establish
this department.
I think it's important that a more effi-
cient delivery of educational opportunity
to children in our country be achieved. I
think the primary control of the schools,
obviously, ought to be at the local and
State level, but I think it'll make it more
effective.
Q. In that connection, does it trouble
you that the Congress appears to be want-
ing to drop Headstart from that depart-
ment?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that issue has
already been resolved. We don't want to
do anything to weaken Headstart, and I
believe it's been a belief on the part of
those who've managed Headstart in the
past that it ought not to be part of the
education department. And when I was
a young man, just home from the Navy, I
headed up the Headstart program in
Georgia the first year, believe in it, and
want to strengthen it, not weaken it. But
I don't believe that it's likely that Head-
start will be a part of the new department
of education.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, to follow up Helen's
[Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional] opening question on the Middle
East, you said there was no doubt that the
subject of the West Bank would come up
in the talks as well as that of Sinai. One of
the Egyptian delegates has indicated that
the Egyptians might be unwilling to sign
a peace treaty without evidence of Israeli
flexibility on the future question of settle-
ments on the West Bank. Have the Israelis
given any indication yet-for example,
have they yet responded in this question
of the exchange of letters and come
around to the U.S. position on the future
settlements in the West Bank?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
your opinion accurately expresses what
President Sadat has told me. I don't think
he would let any single element of the
West Bank, Gaza Strip settlement prevent
a conclusion of a treaty between Egypt
and Israel.
And I think the Israelis have been very
forthcoming, in my experience with them
1749
