Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and sorrow at the loss of life and further
destruction as a result of the latest fighting
in Beirut and surrounding villages.
The President and the Secretary Gen-
eral urged that all involved make every
effort to observe the cease-fire accepted on
the 30th of September.
They urged that a framework be de-
veloped for a political solution of the
crisis in Lebanon and agreed to do all
they can to this end.
NOTE: The statement was released at Orlando,
Fla.
Orlando, Florida
Remarks at a Reception of the International
Chamber of Commerce. October 1, 1978
I think it's accurate to say that I was
just introduced by one of the Nation's
greatest political leaders and a man who's
been an inspiration to me and, I'm sure,
to all of you, and I appreciate it very
much.
I was talking to Kurt Waldheim a few
minutes ago, the Secretary General of the
United Nations, and we only had about
10 minutes to discuss all the problems of
the world. And in the midst of it, I got
a happy birthday call from President
Ford, which I appreciated very much. I
called him on his birthdays; he called me
on my birthday. We have a very good in-
terrelationship too, because, as you know,
we have a very small fraternity of Presi-
dents and ex-Presidents. [Laughter] And
we feel the burdens of the office very
deeply. And he's been extremely helpful
to me.
Earlier, when I was planning on this
trip, I called Amy and said that we were
going to be down here in Florida to cele-
brate the birthday of one of the world's
greatest and most admired leaders. And
she said, “Yes, I know, Daddy." And I
was swelling up with pride. She said,
"This is Mickey Mouse's 50th birthday."
[Laughter]
I had a thrilling afternoon, one of the
great days of my life, and a birthday that
I will never forget. We went to the space
center at Cape Canaveral, Cape Kennedy,
the Kennedy Space Center, and I gave
medals of honor to five of our heroic
astronauts and also posthumously to the
widow of Virgil Grissom. And to remem-
ber what they have done for our country
is one of the great events of my life. And
to shake hands with Neil Armstrong and
the others there was really a momentous
occasion.
I think this is typical of what Florida
has helped our Nation to realize. It's not
really a coincidence that when great
events take place in our country, that your
State is often at the heart of the great ac-
complishment.
This is the first time in 20 years that
the International Chamber of Commerce
has met in our Nation. And as you know,
this is the first time that this tremendous
convention has appeared in any nation
except in the capital city of that country.
And it's because of leadership of men like
Reubin Askew, with the help of men and
women like you, that this has been made
possible.
I'm going to speak briefly this evening
to the group in convention, and the thrust
of my remarks will be that business,
tourism, exchange of people and products
can transcend international borders even
greater than governments can through
political means. And I think had we had
the same interrelationships back 30 or
more years ago that we have now, the
course of the world would have been quite
different.
One of the things I'm going to say is
that our two most ferocious allies, whom
we hated and despised and did all we
1688
