Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 30
about 15 years ago to get intelligence
from electronic means might have been
overemphasized, sometimes to the detri-
ment of the assessment of the intelligence
derived and also the intelligence derived
through normal political channels, not
secret intelligence; sometimes just the as-
sessment of public information that's
known in different countries around the
world. And recently I wrote a note-
which is my custom; I write several every
day to the National Security Council,
the State Department, and the CIA lead-
ers, and asked them to get together with
others and see how we could improve the
quality of our assessment program and
also, particularly, political assessments.
Since I've been in office, we have sub-
stantially modified the order of priorities
addressed by the intelligence community
in its totality. When I became President,
I was concerned, during the first few
months, that quite often the intelligence
community itself set its own priorities. As
a supplier of intelligence information, I
felt that the customers, the ones who re-
ceive the intelligence information, includ-
ing the Defense Department, myself, and
others, ought to be the ones to say, "This
is what we consider to be most impor-
tant." That effort has been completed,
and it's now working very well.
So, to summarize, there is still some
progress to be made. I was pleased with
the intelligence community's work when I
first came into office, and it's been im-
proved since I became President.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Frank,
very much. Thank you, everybody.
NOTE: President Carter's fortieth news con-
ference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on
November 30, 1978
Progress Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am reporting on
progress made toward the conclusion of
a negotiated solution to the Cyprus
problem.
While direct negotiations between the
two Cypriot communities under the aus-
pices of the United Nations Secretary
General have not yet resumed, there is a
growing awareness, especially among the
parties directly concerned, that the time
is now ripe for determined action de-
signed to break the Cyprus deadlock.
Moreover, it is increasingly accepted that
a just and lasting settlement can come
only through intensive, sustained face-to-
face negotiations. Public statements, gen-
eral resolutions and intermittent talks are
not adequate to solve the Cyprus problem.
For this reason our recent efforts have
concentrated on encouraging the two
Cypriot parties to work with the Secre-
tary General of the United Nations on
an early reconvening of intercommunal
talks. Repeal of the Turkish arms em-
bargo has created fresh opportunities for
progress on the Cyprus issue.
Secretary of State Vance spoke of this
policy before the United Nations General
Assembly on September 29. "We would
welcome and actively support," he said,
"a renewed effort by Secretary General
Waldheim to help the parties reach agree-
ment on a sovereign, bicommunal, non-
aligned federal Republic of Cyprus." To
back up this call, Administration officials
have been conferring with high-level rep-
resentatives of both Cypriot communities,
with the Turkish, Greek and other
2103
