Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
very strong nonpartisan or bipartisan
commitment to passing this legislation. I
want to express on behalf of the entire
Nation my thanks, not only to the Demo-
cratic leaders but also to the Republican
leaders of the Congress who made this
possible.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:07 a.m. at the
ceremony in the East Room at the White
House.
As enacted, the bills, approved November 9,
are as follows:
effort. I am proud that the United States
has consistently supported these moves
toward European unity. Your hope that
the United Kingdom would join the Euro-
pean Community has come to pass, and
we now hope that direct elections to the
European Parliament will involve West-
ern European peoples ever more directly
in the Community's development.
for
I wish to express my deep admiration
your unique and vital contribution in
H.R. 4018, Public Utility Regulatory Policies creating this increasingly united Europe.
Act of 1978-Public Law 95-617;
H.R. 5263, Energy Tax Act of 1978-Public
Law 95-618;
H.R. 5037, National Energy Conservation Pol-
icy Act-Public Law 95-619;
H.R. 5146, Powerplant and Industrial Fuel
Use Act of 1978-Public Law 95-620;
H.R. 5289, Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978-
Public Law 95-621.
Jean Monnet
Letter to Mr. Monnet on His 90th Birthday.
October 25, 1978
To Jean Monnet
I salute you on your 90th birthday
an occasion for celebration on both sides
of the Atlantic. For many decades you
have been one of the world's foremost
leaders in helping to create the foundation
of a united Europe. Your goals have
always been world peace, equality among
peoples, economic prosperity and, most
important, uniting individuals on the
basis of common interests and mutual
respect.
Much of your dream has already come
true: The European Coal and Steel Com-
munity, Euratom, and the European Eco-
nomic Community have brought nations
and peoples of Western Europe closer to-
gether than ever before in cooperative
And I want to underscore your special
achievement in fostering the enduring
relationship between the United States
and Western Europe.
As Europe moves toward new forms of
unity, you can count on the United States
to maintain and strengthen that relation-
ship. The stronger and more united West-
ern Europe becomes, the more opportun-
ities for effective partnership open up be-
tween all the main industrial regions. The
Summit meetings in which Europe,
Japan, and North America come together
to concert their economic policies are, in
a very real sense, a tribute to you. I hope
that we will now be as ingenious in find-
ing new ways to improve this inter-
continental cooperation as you were in
promoting unity in Europe.
Few men have left such a profound
impact on their time. Few have been so
innovative in creating institutions which
strengthen peace and prosperity.
Your profound knowledge of the
United States, combined with your en-
ergy, vision, and deep commitments, make
you a true Atlantic, as well as European,
statesman. On behalf of the American
people and government, I salute you.
JIMMY CARTER
[Mr. Jean Monnet, Houjarray, par Monfort
l'Amaury, Seine]
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
November 9.
1985
