Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
created by the retirement of the Honor-
able Arnold Raum on October 27, 1978.
He directed the Commission to make spe-
cial efforts to consider well-qualified
women and members of minority groups
as possible nominees.
Presidential Commission on
World Hunger
Statement by the President. October 5, 1978
Farmers around the globe are prepar-
ing to gather one of the largest harvests
on record. Yet, despite this abundance,
hundreds of millions of people will remain
hungry and malnourished. Some Ameri-
cans are among them. Theirs is a daily
experience which saps the strength and
will and prevents maximum human de-
velopment. Their numbers will grow un-
less we find means to raise world food
production and improve food distribution,
reduce population growth, and help these
men, women, and children raise them-
selves out of the poverty that lies at the
root of their hunger.
The United States has a stake in help-
ing to solve this problem, not only because
of our humanitarian concerns but for
other reasons as well. We cannot have a
peaceful and prosperous world if a large
part of the world's people are at or near
the edge of hunger. So long as food short-
ages exist in developing countries, the pos-
sibility remains of another world food
crisis like that of 1973-74. Such a crisis
could trigger another ruinous cycle in
food prices and thus contribute power-
fully to inflation.
With the support of the American
people and the Congress, this administra-
tion will intensify its efforts to meet the
world hunger problem. To this end, we
must look for ways to tap the talents and
commitment of the American Nation in an
effective international effort.
To assist in this vital effort, I have
signed an Executive order creating a
World
Presidential Commission on
Hunger. Ambassador Sol Linowitz, who
will be its Chairman, has already served
our country in many capacities-most re-
cently as Ambassador to the OAS and
as conegotiator in the Panama Canal
treaties. None of his assignments, how-
ever, have been as important to the future
hopes of mankind as the one he and his
colleagues will undertake over the next 2
years that of helping to alleviate hunger
and malnutrition throughout the world.
I have asked the Commission to analyze
the nature and dimensions of the problem,
to assess the performance of existing pro-
grams, and to recommend actions this
Nation can take to reduce world hunger
and malnutrition. I have also asked the
Commission to inform the American pub-
lic of these recommendations and assist
will provide me with a status report by
in their implementation. The Commission
July 31, 1979, and a final report by May
31, 1980.
I am confident that this new venture,
which will entail close cooperation be-
tween the private sector and U.S. legisla-
tive and executive branches of Govern-
ment, will produce a notable advance in
the war on hunger.
NOTE: On October 5, the President participated
in the inaugural session of the Commission
in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
Acquisition of the Museum of
African Art by the
Smithsonian Institution
Statement on Signing S. 2507 Into Law.
October 5, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law today
S. 2507, a bill which authorizes the Smith-
1712
