Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(c) For those documents described in
subsections (b) (i), (b) (ii) and (b)(iii)
of this Section, the Secretary of Labor
may request the Secretary of the Treasury
to initiate the actions described in this
Section 106 of this Plan.
SECTION 107. Evaluation. On or before
April 30, 1980, the President will submit
to both Houses of the Congress an evalu-
ation of the extent to which this Reorga-
nization Plan has alleviated the problems
associated with the present administrative
structure under ERISA, accompanied by
specific legislative recommendations for a
long-term administrative structure under
ERISA.
SECTION 108. Incidental Transfers. So
much of the personnel, property, records
and unexpended balances of appropria-
tions, allocations and other funds em-
ployed, used, held, available, or to be
made available in connection with the
functions transferred under this Plan, as
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall determine, shall be
transferred to the appropriate agency, or
component at such time or times as the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall provide, except that no
such unexpended balances transferred
shall be used for purposes other than
those for which the appropriation was
originally made. The Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall
provide for terminating the affairs of
agencies abolished herein and for such
further measures and dispositions as such
Director deems necessary to effectuate the
purposes of this Reorganization Plan.
any
SECTION 109. Effective Date. The pro-
visions of this Reorganization Plan shall
become effective at such time or times,
on or before April 30, 1979, as the Presi-
dent shall specify, but not sooner than the
earliest time allowable under Section 906
of Title 5, United States Code.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
August 5
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs,
before leaving on his trip to Norfolk, Va.,
and Wilson, N.C.
August 7
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Senator Kaneaster Hodges, Jr., of
Arkansas;
-the Cabinet;
-senior White House staff members;
-James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of
the Office of Management and
Budget.
August 8
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-the Democratic congressional leader-
ship.
The President has declared an emer-
gency for the State of New York because
of the adverse impact of chemical wastes
lying exposed on the surface and associ-
ated chemical vapors emanating from the
Love Canal chemical waste landfill in the
city of Niagara Falls.
1405
