Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
provisions and principles of Resolutions A. West Bank and Gaza
242 and 338.
-Peace requires respect for the sover-
eignty, territorial integrity and political
independence of every state in the area
and their right to live in peace within se-
cure and recognized boundaries free from
threats or acts of force. Progress toward
that goal can accelerate movement to-
ward a new era of reconciliation in the
Middle East marked by cooperation in
promoting economic development, in
maintaining stability, and in assuring
security.
-Security is enhanced by a relation-
ship of peace and by cooperation between
nations which enjoy normal relations. In
addition, under the terms of peace trea-
ties, the parties can, on the basis of reci-
procity, agree to special security arrange-
ments such as demilitarized zones, limited
armaments areas, early warning stations,
the presence of international forces, liai-
son, agreed measures for monitoring, and
other arrangements that they agree are
useful.
FRAMEWORK
Taking these factors into account, the
parties are determined to reach a just,
comprehensive, and durable settlement of
the Middle East conflict through the con-
clusion of peace treaties based on Security
Council Resolutions 242 and 338 in all
their parts. Their purpose is to achieve
peace and good neighborly relations.
They recognize that, for peace to endure,
it must involve all those who have been
most deeply affected by the conflict. They
therefore agree that this framework as ap-
propriate is intended by them to consti-
tute a basis for peace not only between
Egypt and Israel, but also between Israel
and each of its other neighbors which is
prepared to negotiate peace with Israel
on this basis. With that objective in mind,
they have agreed to proceed as follows:
1. Egypt, Israel, Jordan and the repre-
sentatives of the Palestinian people should
participate in negotiations on the resolu-
tion of the Palestinian problem in all its
aspects. To achieve that objective, nego-
tiations relating to the West Bank and
Gaza should proceed in three stages:
(a) Egypt and Israel agree that, in or-
der to ensure a peaceful and orderly trans-
fer of authority, and taking into account
the security concerns of all the parties,
there should be transitional arrangements
for the West Bank and Gaza for a period
not exceeding five years. In order to pro-
vide full autonomy to the inhabitants, un-
der these arrangements the Israeli
military government and its civilian ad-
ministration will be withdrawn as soon as
a self-governing authority has been freely
elected by the inhabitants of these areas to
replace the existing military government.
To negotiate the details of a transitional
arrangement, the Government of Jordan
will be invited to join the negotiations on
the basis of this framework. These new
arrangements should give due considera-
tion both to the principle of self-govern-
ment by the inhabitants of these terri-
tories and to the legitimate security con-
cerns of the parties involved.
(b) Egypt, Israel, and Jordan will
agree on the modalities for establishing
the elected self-governing authority in the
West Bank and Gaza. The delegations of
Egypt and Jordan may include Palestini-
ans from the West Bank and Gaza or other
Palestinians as mutually agreed. The par-
ties will negotiate an agreement which
will define the powers and responsibilities
of the self-governing authority to be ex-
ercised in the West Bank and Gaza. A
withdrawal of Israeli armed forces will
take place and there will be a redeploy-
ment of the remaining Israeli forces into
specified security locations. The agree-
ment will also include arrangements for
1524
