July 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Secondly, I think that the people be-
lieve that government intrudes in their
own lives too much. And I'd like to go
along in correcting that as well.
I think people feel that government is
excessively irresponsible with the taxpay-
ers' money. And I agree with that. And
we've proposed, as you know, a substan-
tial tax reduction.
One of the facets, though, of Proposi-
tion 13 is that the emphasis there was on
reducing property tax rates and with at
least the visceral understanding that this
would have to be made up either by Fed-
eral Government taxes or State
gov-
ernment taxes.
California had a unique circumstance
in that they had accumulated a large sur-
plus of State taxes—I think $5.5 billion
or so—and are likely to have $3 or $4 bil-
lion in surplus funds collected this year.
And also, there was an extraordinarily
high property tax rate in California. Even
after the Proposition 13 goes into effect
completely, the property tax rates in Cali-
fornia are higher than most other States.
I'm certain they are higher than any
other State in the Southeast, with which
I'm familiar.
So, I think there are lessons to be
learned from Proposition 13, but it was a
unique circumstance that would be emu-
lated in few other States.
Another factor that I haven't men-
tioned is that you don't have the referen-
dum system in many States. But I think
the passage of Proposition 13 has sent a
shock wave through the consciousness of
every public servant-Presidents, Gover-
nors, mayors, State legislators, Members
of Congress. And we've stopped and
thought, what can we do to accommodate
the desires expressed by the American
people for modification in government
and financing and taxation, as demon-
strated by Proposition 13? But the exact
parallel is hard to draw.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what
you might accept in the way of a tax bill
to avoid a tax increase in January?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've spelled
out our position fairly clearly. I'm not op-
posed to capital gains reductions as such.
I am opposed to the Steiger-Jones ap-
proach, where you eliminate the applica-
tion of the minimum tax to people that,
through tax shelters and other means,
wouldn't pay any taxes at all. I think that
is an unfair approach and it's unaccepta-
ble to me.
Other modifications in capital gains
rates would be acceptable to us. One
example, of course, is in the case of a
homeowner who sells one's home and then
who doesn't want to rebuy another home
but, because of age or other considera-
tions, wants to move into a rental apart-
ment and so forth. That part suits me fine.
We were in favor of the accumulation
of capital in an efficient way, and we
worked out with the business community,
the Business Roundtable and other groups
that sat around this table, their prefer-
ence on this approach.
A modest modification in investment
tax credit, making a 10-percent invest-
ment tax credit permanent and predicta-
ble and reducing the corporate tax
rates-this is what the business commu-
nity preferred.
We even had a poll run among 3 or 400
business leaders of all sizes to make sure
we did that. We tried to make the tax
reform proposal progressive in nature so
that those who earn the most taxes would
pay the higher rate and to benefit the
average working family members in this
country, not the very high income groups
of $50,000 and above, necessarily. We
wanted to close some loopholes, and we
also wanted to have an overall tax re-
duction.
In November, when we were putting
this package to bed, which you have to do
1354
