Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 12
in legislation we're marking up today. I
think we have a tremendous responsibility
in government to ensure that the stand-
ards are even higher than in private life.
And for that reason, I think great em-
phasis is being placed by Congress and
the administration on this area, and I
think we're going to get to the bottom
of it.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:13 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 8588 is Public Law 95-452,
approved October 12.
Inspector General Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 8588 Into Law.
October 12, 1978
I am pleased to be signing H.R. 8588, a
bill to reorganize and consolidate audit
and investigation functions and to create
offices of Inspector General in 12 major
domestic departments and agencies. I
think it is a reflection on the importance
of this legislation that the final version of
the bill was approved by unanimous votes
in the Senate and House.
The new offices created by the bill will
consolidate existing audit and investiga-
tion resources under the direction of a sin-
gle, presidentially appointed Inspector
General in each agency. By combining
these resources under an Inspector Gen-
eral, who will be directly accountable
to the agency head, the Inspectors Gen-
eral will be of prime importance to my ad-
ministration in our continuing, concerted
effort to root out fraud, abuse, and waste
in agency programs. Over the long term,
this legislation will be of great value to
this administration's commitment to im-
proving economy, efficiency, effectiveness,
and integrity in the administration of Fed-
eral programs.
I can assure the Congress that the new
framework established by the bill will be
put to a good and vigorous use. I intend to
nominate people of the highest integrity
and ability to head these offices, and I will
instruct my department and agency heads
to support their efforts fully.
We are pleased to have worked with the
Congress in fashioning this legislation.
The reorganization of audit and investi-
gation activities complements other initi-
atives the administration has under way
to fight fraud and abuse in Government,
including the strong whistleblower protec-
tion provisions in the civil service reform
bill and the aggressive investigations we
have launched of alleged abuses in GSA
operations and CETA job programs.
I commend Representatives Fountain
and Brooks and Senators Eagleton and
Ribicoff for their dedicated work in the
development and refinement of this bill.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8588 is Public Law
95-452, approved October 12.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
Remarks of the President, the Israeli Foreign
Minister, and the Egyptian Defense Minister
at the Opening Ceremony. October 12, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Distinguished Ministers,
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary,
friends:
For 2,000 years in the Middle East,
people have cried, "Peace, peace," when
there was no peace. The burden of war
has lain heavily on this troubled ground.
But less than 1 month ago, President Sa-
dat of Egypt and Prime Minister Begin of
1757
