Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 20
There are some allegations which will
be the subject of investigation, and be-
cause I would not want my comments
inadvertently to affect or to influence
those investigations, I will have no fur-
ther comment on this subject this evening
and will not answer questions on this
subject.
I'll be glad to answer questions on other
items.
QUESTIONS
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, you seem to be em-
barked on an eye-for-an-eye diplomacy
with the Soviets, and they're accusing you
of blackmail in terms of human rights.
My question is how far in the direction
of reprisals do you plan to go, and what
do you intend to accomplish?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a deep com-
mitment in our Nation to the enhance-
ment of human rights, not only here but
around the world. The Soviets, when they
signed the Final Act of the Helsinki
agreement voluntarily, along with 35 or
so other nations, committed themselves to
certain principles to be honored among
their own citizens—the right of citizens
to emigrate from the Soviet Union, the
right of families to be united, and the
right of the government in a legitimate
way, even, to be criticized by their citizens.
The recent trials in the Soviet Union
have been aimed against Soviet citizens
who were monitoring compliance with
the Helsinki act, which the Soviets them-
selves signed. And we, along with voices
throughout the world, have expressed our
displeasure at these actions.
I have not embarked on a vendetta
against the Soviet Union. I know that we
cannot interfere in the internal affairs of
the Soviet Union. I would like to have
better relationships with the Soviets. We
have continued our discussions with the
Soviet Union on SALT and other matters.
We would like to even enhance trade with
the Soviet Union. But we have to let our
own foreign policy be carried out.
I might add that in addition to those
highly publicized dissidents that have
been tried recently, Mr. Shcharanskiy,
Orlov, and others, that there is a Lithu-
anian named Petkus, who has also been
tried and sentenced, and when I was in
East Germany recently-West Berlin-
there have been two men tried in East
Germany, a Mr. Hübner and also a Mr.
Bahro.
I met with the six leaders of other
Western democracies. All of us are con-
cerned about this move in the Soviet
Union to punish dissidents for monitoring
compliance with the Helsinki agreement.
But I would like to have better relation-
ships with the Soviet Union. We have
expressed our displeasure, I think, in a
very moderate way.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX
Q. Mr. President, the House Ways and
Means Committee seems intent on im-
proving one of the capital gains tax cut
proposals that you said here on June 26
that you saw no possibility you could
accept. Would you veto the Jones or
Steiger amendments, or would you accept
some sort of compromise such as cutting
the capital gains tax only on the sale of
homes?
THE PRESIDENT. We put forward to the
Congress a tax reduction and tax reform
proposal that I think is adequate and
necessary. First of all, it would reduce the
tax burden on the American people sub-
stantially. It would permit an efficient
formation of increased capital to invest
back in plant and equipment and to pro-
vide better jobs for the American people.
It would protect the average homeowner,
the average working family against shift-
1323
