Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a Governor, and we have that opportu-
nity in Bill Fitzgerald. Will you help put
him in office? [Applause]
He's raised legitimate issues. He's inter-
ested in a highly publicized health prob-
lem. He's taken the position that's respon-
sible and courageous. He is a man who
believes that the Governor's office ought
to be a place for action. He's also a man
of great respect in this entire country.
Recently, I had to send a small delega-
tion to Rome to represent me as the Pres-
ident and our country as a nation at the
funeral of the Pope, and I chose Bill
Fitzgerald to go along with my mother
and just a few others to represent our
Nation. This is the kind of leadership
we need. This is the kind of leadership we
will have next year with Bill Fitzgerald.
He told me he only made one mistake
on that trip, to play poker with my
mother. He should not have done it.
[Laughter] And because his personal
finances and his campaign treasury were
reduced by my own mother, I hope you'll
help him even more this next 4 days to
win his election.
Let me close by saying that we need
in Washington a strong team. We need,
as we relate to you, a strong relationship
between your State administration and
the Democratic team in Washington.
We've worked hard to bring down un-
employment in our country. We've got a
long way to go. We are working hard to
bring down inflation, which has been
with us more than 10 years. We've got a
long way to go.
Yesterday, I signed two bills that give
the greatest Federal aid to education in
the history of our country from preschool
years, elementary, secondary, and aid to
college students of all ages and of all in-
comes. We've also sustained a rate of
growth of housing construction in our
country, over 2 million per year. We've
been sensitive in meeting the legitimate
needs of our country, but we've also
brought a new concept to Washington.
The Democratic Party has always been
a party of compassion, a party that recog-
nized that we needed to extend a hand
to those who are less fortunate in our
society, to let them be able to stand on
their own feet, to make their own deci-
sions, to support themselves, to play a role
in government, to be respected members
of a community. We still have that unique
characteristic which has given the Demo-
cratic Party the support for generations
of the working people of this country. But
we've also realized that you cannot edu-
cate a child, you cannot feed a hungry
person, you cannot build a home or repair
highways with waste, corruption or ineffi-
ciency.
I believe in tough management. When
I was running for President, we had a
Federal deficit of more than $66 billion.
In giving better services to our people, we
have been able to cut the deficit down
already by more than $25 billion. In the
budget I'm working on now, we'll cut the
Federal deficit more than half, and with
the help of people like Don Riegle, Carl
Levin, Congressman Kildee, we are work-
ing forward in the future to having a
balanced budget for the Government of
the United States of America.
How can you give better services, bal-
ance the budget without raising taxes?
We've been able to do it. Last year, aided
by the Democratic Congress, we cut taxes
by $8 billion. This next week, as soon as
I get the final bill from the Congress, I
will sign it to reduce income taxes an-
other $20 billion.
So, we've been able to give better serv-
ices, cut the deficit and cut taxes, a pretty
good achievement if I do say so myself.
We're trying to stabilize the value of
the dollar. We had great luck yesterday
by taking bold action to make sure that
America is economically strong, that we
1934
