July 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Congress their recommendations for es-
tablishing grazing fees on public lands in
11 western States. Those recommenda-
tions, based on a year-long study in-
volving extensive public participation,
called for fees to be set at fair market
value as determined by current land
rental rates for comparable private lands.
Present rates would be increased at a
maximum rate of 25 percent annually to
reach fair market value. Thereafter,
annual adjustments would be limited to
12 percent. Under these proposals, indi-
vidual operators will pay an additional
$60 per year or less on average.
I strongly believe that the administra-
tion recommendations will result in a fee
structure that is fair to both livestock
operators and the United States. How-
ever, I am also aware of the importance
of the fee structure to our livestock
industry.
I am aware that the Congress is now
seriously considering two bills, H.R. 10587
and S. 2475, which, among other things,
would mandate a new grazing fee for-
mula based in part on the price of beef
and its cost of production. The Depart-
ments of the Interior and Agriculture
have strongly opposed any formula which
is not based on fees charged on compara-
ble private lands. While I am signing
H.R. 9757 to allow the Congress more
time to review the administration's graz-
majority of operators use private lands at
much greater expense.
I urge the Congress to approve the ad-
ministration's grazing fee recommenda-
tions and support their implementation
for the 1979 grazing year.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9757 is Public Law
95-321, approved July 21.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
July 13
The President arrived in the Federal
Republic of Germany at the Bonn-Co-
logne Airport and proceeded with Chan-
cellor Helmut Schmidt to the U.S. Am-
bassador's residence in Bonn, where he
stayed during his visit.
July 18
The President met at the White House
with Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
The President met at the White House
with:
ing fee recommendations, I expect that July 19
Congress and its committees will honor
the principle of a fair return from the use
of natural resources by commercial in-
terests. I remain opposed to legislation
which does not provide a fair return to
the United States for the use of public
resources. I believe it is unfair to provide
a special subsidy at the public's expense
to those 5 percent of all livestock opera-
tors who use public lands, while the vast
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
-Members of Congress to discuss the
Bonn Economic Summit Confer-
ence;
1332
