Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Act of 1965 and the Higher Education
Act of '65-the Congress has put more
into education since I've been in office
than ever before-we still don't have as
much attention given to education as it
ought to have.
I have a great interest in education,
from all my background, more than any
other single subject except, perhaps, na-
tional defense. And those are some of the
reasons that I think a separate depart-
ment of education ought to be a good idea
in our Government. It may not pass this
year; I hope it will. The Senate has al-
ready taken action; it's in the House. But
if it doesn't, then I'll be pursuing it again
next year I hope this year; if not, next
year.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Q. Hello, Mr. President. My name is
Dan Chamvitz, and I live in Hopewell
Township.
My sister happens to live in Israel. The
PLO has set off bombs within 100 yards
of where she works and where she lives.
So, I would like to know how the United
States could let the PLO, an organization
which has openly killed hundreds of peo-
ple, open an office and distribute propa-
ganda in Washington, D.C.?
THE PRESIDENT. We have in our coun-
try a constitutional right to freedom of
speech, one of the deepest commitments
of the American people. There are a lot
of organizations in our country which are
obnoxious to some of us, what they stand
for, what they believe in. And it's a diffi-
cult thing for a public official not to use
this kind of issue to demagog and to stamp
out an unpopular group, no matter how
small it might be.
There is obviously no threat to our
Nation's security. There is obviously no
threat to the well-being of people who
live in Israel if the PLO has this small in-
formation office. My own guess is that
they will learn more about our country
by being here and what we stand for than
we'll learn from them.
There are many groups like this that
cause us concern. The Ku Klux Klan, for
instance, the Communist Party, the
Nazis you know, it would be nice for us
if they would just go away. But it's part
of our system of government to let them
have a right to speak. And I believe that
as long as the American people are edu-
cated and knowledgeable about the threat
of these organizations, that that's the best
way to stamp them out.
I might add one other thing: I have a
commitment to the people of Israel not to
negotiate with nor to have private meet-
ings with the PLO until after that organi-
zation recognizes Israel's right to exist and
espouses United Nations Resolution 242,
with which I know you are thoroughly fa-
miliar. So, I think we're making good
progress in the Mideast.
You need not fear the little office in
Washington. I believe we can handle the
PLO, not by stamping them out, but by
the American people.
Thank you.
WAGE INCREASES; STEEL IMPORTS
Q. Shalom, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Shalom.
Q. I am Barbara Heyman from Con-
way, Pennsylvania. And I personally
would like to extend a mazel tov to you
for all your accomplishments at Camp
David.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. You recently stated that you wanted
to hold wage increases to 7 percent or less.
Why do you only want to give the Federal
worker 52 percent, when in fact many
unions have and will exceed the 7 per-
cent?
What further action is the Government
contemplating to protect the American
steel industry against foreign imports? We
1612
