Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
hurt any of you—but if you would go
home and start thinking about what more
you can do, there's no doubt in my mind
that every one of you, no matter how old
or young, even very young people could
raise 5 or 10 times as much as you've
contributed tonight. Send it in to help
the candidates here on the stage, and kind
of organize yourselves as campaign
managers.
You're not servants. You're not follow-
ers. You're inherent natural leaders. And
I think the good thing that you can do to
show your leadership capability is to in-
vest it in something you love-your
country.
So, it wouldn't hurt you to organize
your block, or to organize your commu-
nity, or perhaps the whole town or county,
and demonstrate once again that we have
a spirit in the Democratic Party that wants
to repair past damages, answer difficult
questions, reach deep within our hearts
and restore the spirit and the idealism, the
truthfulness that has long exhibited what
the Democratic Party stands for and what
our country is.
So, help us all. Let's elect John Ingram
and Lamar Gudger, and not only that,
but show the people of North Carolina
and our country that we are still as great
as we used to be and that we can be
even greater in the future.
I'm very proud of you, and I thank you
for giving me your confidence to serve
as President. Government can't do every-
thing for people, and my inspiration
comes from you. But I'm glad that you
and I form a partnership, a kind of a
political team of which I'm proud, very
proud. And I'm also proud that we have
a chance to exhibit this team spirit in the
greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:34 p.m. in
the Deer Park Pavilion at the Biltmore Estate.
Dr. Wallace Hyde is chairman of the Ingram
for Senate Fundraiser.
Columbia, South Carolina
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception
and Dinner for Charles Ravenel.
September 22, 1978
I think that's one of the best introduc-
tions I ever had. [Laughter] And it's obvi-
ous that Pug means what he says, that he's
very excited about being in the same place
as the President. And I suggest that in
January, you send him to Washington to
be with me for a long time.
As you know, I was supposed to come
last week. And I'm very interested in this
race in South Carolina and seeing Pug
win. I thought the best thing to do was to
delay the Camp David proceedings for
about a week and see if I couldn't boost
my own popularity a little before I came
up here. [Laughter] And I'm very grateful
to say
that because of your prayers and the
support of many people and the presence
of two truly great men at Camp David,
Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat, that we have been successful in
taking the first step of what I think is in-
evitably going to lead very shortly to a
peace treaty between Israel and Egypt.
To me, this is indicative of a kind of
new tone or interrelationship among peo-
ple, perhaps throughout the whole world.
Those of you here in South Carolina,
those of us in Georgia, are descended from
people who know what it means to go
through a terrible war and to live under
occupation and to struggle to restore what
we've lost and then to rise to new heights
of achievement and common purpose.
I think this is the sense that I get
throughout our own Nation now, because
we have had some very bad years, with the
Vietnam war and the Watergate embar-
rassments, the CIA revelations of viola-
tion of U.S. laws. But I think there's a
determination on the part of American
people to have a nation and a government
1582
