Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 18
device that would injure people is cer-
tainly contrary to my own inclinations.
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAMS
Q. Continuing on the text of the
Mexico border, it seems like down
through the years, we've been pouring
billions and billions and billions of Fed-
eral aid through multitudes of govern-
mental programs into the border. It's
seeming to do little more than sustain the
status quo of poverty. Isn't it about time
for some new approaches to ending
double-digit unemployment and three-
generation chains of dependency? In other
words, doesn't anybody know that what's
being done down there is not working?
THE PRESIDENT. The first state visit I
had after I became President was from
President López Portillo. And Secretary
of State Vance, my own wife, and the
Vice President have all visited Mexico al-
ready. We are deeply aware of a need for
closer working relationships between our
country and Mexico in a broad range of
things.
Q. I'm not talking about Mexico. I am
talking about our situation along the bor-
der, those of us who live on the border.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, well, I didn't
understand your question. Perhaps you
could rephrase it.
Q. Well, it seems like all the money is
going just to maintain the status quo, that
is not very profitable.
THE PRESIDENT. What kind of money?
Q. CETA money, this kind of program
money, welfare money.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that situ-
ation probably can be assessed critically
throughout the Nation. All of these pro-
grams were designed by Congress and
ultimately approved by me or my prede-
cessors, with a genuine attempt to focus
the aid and to focus the training in jobs
where it's most needed.
As you know, in the CETA program, in
particular, the basic decisions are made at
the local level of government. When I
was Governor, I was personally the chair-
man of the CETA committee in Georgia.
Other Governors didn't do that; some do.
But the basic decisions on who gets jobs,
who gets training, and what responsibili-
ties are placed on those who receive Fed-
eral benefits are made by mayors, by pri-
vate groups, by benevolent organizations,
nonprofit groups, by county officials, and
Governors. And the Federal Government
responsibility is to assure that the laws are
not violated.
We have had, since I've been in office,
a massive examination or monitoring of
the allocation of CETA funds to make
sure that illegalities were rooted out.
These have been very embarrassing, as
you noticed, to several large municipal
administrations throughout the coun-
try-I think most of them are Demo-
cratic; it hadn't been partisan in nature
at all.
But the Congress, in this most recent
session, has tightened up greatly on the
CETA law, and I think that any abuses
that have been obvious in the past will be
much less likely in the future. That's al-
ways a problem with welfare, any kind
of aid or education.
OIL PRICE INCREASE AND INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, what would a 10-
percent increase in OPEC prices do to
your anti-inflation plans?
THE PRESIDENT. It would not help at
all. [Laughter]
Q. How far would it set it back?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Secretary Blu-
menthal is now on a trip to visit with
some of the leaders among the OPEC
nations. I think the best way that we can
prevent an excessive increase in price,
2063
