Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 1
and individual Members before the Con-
gress convenes, and I think I can assure
you that we will be successful in getting
this legislation passed to be an insurance
program for real wages for American
workers who comply with our standards.
MR. KELLY. Thank you, Mr. President.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
Kelly.
And now, Mr. President, the next gen-
tleman from whom we will hear is one
of America's most distinguished business
leaders, a man you know, Hal Dean,
chairman of the board of Ralston-Purina,
and who's president of the City Progress
Association of Missouri. Hal, would you
stand up when you ask your question,
please?
MR. DEAN. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Mr.
Dean. It's good to hear from you.
MR. DEAN. Thank you very much. I
know you've had a busy morning. We
would like to say thank you for choosing
St. Louis yourself, and your administra-
tion coming out here and saying hello to
us.
I certainly applaud Bob Kelly's re-
marks. I cannot speak for all of the busi-
ness leaders of either St. Louis or the
country, but I can assure you that I know
the character of the business leaders of
St. Louis, and we are going to cooperate
with you on your program. And I can
say for my own company that you will re-
ceive complete cooperation.
You have consistently said that our
problems of inflation did not have single
nor short-term solutions. Mr. Bill Miller,
head of the Federal Reserve System, has
also advocated the necessity of the longer
range approach. He has outlined a spe-
cific 8-point program dealing with what I
feel are basic and fundamental issues. He
addresses fiscal and monetary restraints,
including the ultimate balancing of the
Federal budget, regaining productivity by
encouraging capital formation, reducing
the role of government in our economy,
restricting present burgeoning regulatory
issues, and becoming less dependent on
foreign energy.
My question: Do you agree that these
corrective actions, approached forcefully
and consistently, will be successful in
bringing inflation under control, and can
you politically stand behind such a pro-
gram?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to both
your questions is yes. I'd like to go down
and explain very briefly each one of those
items I jotted down hastily as you asked
your question.
Fiscal and monetary responsibility is
very important to me. I believe the action
that we've taken this morning to sustain
the value of the dollar will be well re-
ceived in international markets and also in
domestic markets as well. We have a need
to keep the dollar strong. We're not going
to try to fix an exchange rate and hold to
it, but we want to eliminate aberrations
in the international markets. My own be-
lief is that the dollar is now undervalued.
We have not yet benefited in our foreign
exchange adequately from a lower priced
dollar, but this will come along.
Fiscal responsibility in budgeting is
something that I've espoused over and
over, and I think we've already proven it
by lowering the Federal deficit by the end
of the budget I'm preparing now, more
than 50 percent below what it was when
I was running for President.
Secondly, I want to reduce the percent-
age of the gross national product spent by
the Federal Government. This answers
two parts of Bill Miller's standards. One
is that we have fiscal responsibility. The
other one is that we keep Government's
nose out of the affairs of the free enter-
1913
