Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
hand. We had no indoor plumbing. We
had no running water. We didn't have
electricity until I was 14 years old. Our
life was confined to a tiny community.
And the center of my own existence was
my family; close-knit, mutually depend-
ent on one another. Americans were not
mobile then. It was a very rare occasion
for a family to move. How different it is
today.
We still have the greatest agricultural
economy on Earth to provide food, fiber
for other people not so fortunate as we.
Our productivity has increased enor-
mously. Farm population has gone down.
Mechanisms, chemicals, advanced pesti-
cides of all kinds have become an inte-
gral part of life. Family structures are
not nearly so sound nor stable. With the
advent of television and extensive news
media coverage available to us, the hori-
zon of our knowledge and our community
within which we exist has increased tre-
mendously.
Change has taken place so rapidly that
many of us are concerned about it; it
causes us trouble and doubts about the
future, uncertainty. Americans are mo-
bile. A dwelling place is a transient thing.
But some things in the life of Ameri-
cans you as young men, I, when I was
13, 14 years old--don't change. The
needs of a human being or a nation, the
basic needs, have not changed. The basic
values on which we predicate our lives
as individuals and as a nation haven't
changed. The aspirations of free people
for the future have not changed.
It's not even necessary for me to say that
you as leaders now will shape our own
great Nation's future. Many people have
said this to you in your own local chap-
ters, even in your own homes. But one
point I want to make to you is that you
need not wait until the future, until you
have finished college or have established
a family or have a sound, dependable in-
come, to begin to shape the future of the
United States of America. Tap now and
invest in your own community—no mat-
ter how broad it might be, even to the
limits of the shores of our country-the
advantages and characteristics of youth.
Idealism, hope, innovation, and ability
and eagerness to change things that you
do not like; tough criticism of the status
quo without fear of punishment or being
fired from a job or disruption of a fam-
ily; the exemplification of courage in
making difficult decisions, taking unpop-
ular stands these are things that some-
times are almost unique with young peo-
ple of your age.
I know all of you, because you are
leaders in FFA, have a commitment in
your personal lives to stretch your mind; to
learn more about God's world, the techni-
calities of it, the history of it, the future of
it, the expanding universe, the micro-
scopic, even atomic, details that escaped
knowledge just a few generations ago;
and also to stretch your hearts to encom-
pass more friends, to know more people,
to love others, to know about them, to
search for truth. I think it's accurate to
say that the excitement of one's life de-
pends on how deeply you become in-
volved as a person in knowing and help-
ing to shape the community within which
you live, no matter how small or how
large that community might be.
Leadership has characteristics that have
challenged men and women for centuries.
As a young man, and as President, I've
learned some things about leadership.
One is that the fear of failure is one of
the greatest obstacles to progress. How
timid we are when we challenge some
obstacle or engage in some contest or set
a high goal for ourselves. How timid we
are that we might fail in the effort and
perhaps be the subject of ridicule or
criticism or scorn. And so we are tempted
to sit quietly and not do anything and let
1995
