Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 14
with Federal judges and so forth-but
that's a long-range process—and, through
my own public statements, can certainly
help modify general attitudes on deregu-
lation.
In the unique case of the airlines, I had
a major input because of foreign policy
considerations, and we rapidly deregu-
lated the airline industry in international
flights. And I think that to the degree that
that proved to be successful for the air-
lines themselves, for passenger loads and
so forth, it made it easier for us to pass
legislation deregulating the domestic air-
line industry.
I think on deregulation, I would have
to characterize myself as the one who has
the broadest perspective and who makes
the ultimate judgments, which may disap-
point you, but I hope it doesn't. [Laugh-
ter]
Let me say in closing that I'd like to
stay with you. I know you have other busi-
ness to carry out. But I'm very deeply
grateful to you, and I hope that my per-
formance is meeting with your approval.
I have many groups and many distin-
guished Americans who give me aid and
assistance, advice and counsel, criticism,
and you are in the forefront of those peo-
ple. I trust your judgment. I will have to
make the ultimate decisions that affect
our country.
Sometimes a particular request or sug-
gestion of yours runs counter to other in-
terests that I have to accommodate, but in
general, I think that we have grown to
understand and respect one another in
the last 2 years. And I hope that you will
feel that through your organizational
leaders or directly to me or through my
Cabinet officers or agency heads or ad-
visers, that you have a constant access and
easy access to the decisionmaking portion
of the Federal Government.
I'm indebted to you. I look forward to
working with you closely in the future,
and I hope that you will not take lightly
my direct, personal request that you not
only adopt but encourage others to adopt
the voluntary guidelines on wages and
prices that I have put forward. That is
the best thing that you can do for me at
this point. And if you fail me in that,
then I would be not quite so grateful in
the future as I am now. [Laughter]
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:42 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Mayflower Hotel.
President's Commission on the
Coal Industry
Executive Order 12103. December 14, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to modify
and continue, in accord with the pro-
visions of the Federal Advisory Commit-
tee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), a balanced
forum to review the state of the Nation's
coal industry, it is hereby ordered as fol-
lows:
1-1. Establishment.
1-101. There is established the Presi-
dent's Commission on the Coal Industry.
1-102. The membership of the Com-
mission shall be composed of five persons
appointed by the President from citizens
in private life. One shall represent the
interests of labor, one shall represent
management and three shall represent
the general public. The labor and man-
agement representatives shall be chosen
from among candidates recommended by
the United Mine Workers of America
and the Bituminous Coal Operators As-
sociation of America, but shall not be
members of these organizations. The
President shall designate one of the mem-
2243
