Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
Aliquippa, Pennsylvania
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. September 23, 1978
MAYOR ROSS. Good afternoon, ladies and
gentlemen. My name is John Ross, mayor
of Aliquippa. On behalf of the borough
of Aliquippa, I welcome all of you to the
Aliquippa town meeting. And now, may
I present to you the President of the
United States, Jimmy Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Mayor, thank
you very much.
It's a great pleasure for me to be back
in this beautiful part of Pennsylvania and
one of the most beautiful parts of the
United States.
My wife, Rosalynn, during the cam-
paign, spent 5 days in Beaver Valley, and
all the people who were up here cam-
paigning on the Peanut Brigade and my
family and I thought that the most de-
lightful campaign experience of our
whole 1976 effort was in Pennsylvania.
And we thank you for it and also thank
you for the great results that helped to put
me in the White House.
My mother is a great sports fan, and
anybody who cares about sports knows
about Beaver County. As you know, Joe
Namath was a great friend of my mother's
when she was in Alabama and still is.
Pete Maravich played for our team in
Atlanta, great athlete who began here-
Tony Dorsett, another great athlete, as
you know; Doc Medich, and many others.
I won't try to mention all of them that
came from here. But there must be some-
thing special about the climate or the
training, because you have set a standard
for the rest of the country in athletics.
And that's not all. We have a great
song composer from Georgia, Johnny
Mercer. And one of his good friends and
fellow composers was also from here, and
that's Henry Mancini. He was at the
White House not long ago and gave a
beautiful concert. And he and Johnny
Mercer wrote several songs together, in-
cluding "Moon River," which is one of
favorite waltzes-Rosalynn and I like
to dance to it-and "Days of Wine and
Roses" and many others.
my
So, we have not only a lot of political
interrelationships with you but athletic
interrelationships, cultural interrelation-
ships, and just personal friendships.
It's a good opportunity for me as Presi-
dent of our great country to come here
and have a frank exchange with you. Not
only are you responsible for my election,
but in a very important way you are re-
sponsible for how good a job I can do rep-
resenting you in the White House.
There are some things that prey heavily
on my mind, many ideas, but I want to
defer to you this morning on your ques-
tions. There are two, though, that I would
like to mention just in passing that might
stimulate some questions from you.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
One of the great duties of a government
is to police itself, to make sure that the
core of our Nation in government is clean
and decent and honest and open. Our Na-
tion suffered the last few years because
that has not always been true. And when
it isn't true, there's a loss of trust among
people like you in the government which
is yours and in the elected officials which
you put in office.
The Senate has already passed a very
strong ethics bill. The House this week
turned
away many crippling amendments.
And my hope is that next week our Nation
will have a new standard of performance
in financing and campaign contributing
procedures for the Members of the Con-
gress. I inherited many problems. This was
one of them. And the Congress has coop-
erated.
And the General Services Administra-
tion, one of the biggest agencies in the Fed-
1603
