Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Chairman Nix, we appreciate your sup-
port.
I think that probably when you get
down to a couple of words, what we're
trying to do in a sense is make Federal
employees proud of being a part of the
Federal system. And Chairman Campbell,
all through this, even when I decided to
try to hold hearings in Illinois, in four
cities, to have it understood by 110,000
Federal employees and by our 11 million
people what we were trying to accomplish,
his backing and support was just-we
couldn't have done it without him.
And I think, in a sense, when we left
those hearings, people did understand
what we were trying to accomplish. Prob-
ably no two words in the English language
have had more rhetoric about them than
"substantial evidence"—that is, except the
border dispute on 242. [Laughter] But tak-
ing an example there, we found that when
we were going to merit fire as well as
merit hire, substantial evidence for non-
performance is well understood in admin-
istrative law, and we think we won't have
the problems we've with 242.
So then, I think that people understand
this law, and it can be applied, and it's
going to be a giant step forward in im-
proving the efficiency and effectiveness of
the civil service.
The President. Thank you, Senator.
It would be good to point out that the
original draft of the legislation and every
stage of its consummation was monitored
and supported to a major degree, finally,
I think, overwhelmingly, by those em-
ployees who are affected most directly by
the legislation itself. Employees at the top
civil service ranks, those who are ap-
pointed and serve relatively temporarily,
those at the bottom ranks and middle
ranks helped Scotty Campbell draft the
original proposals and worked with the
Congress throughout.
Ken Blaylock, one of the leaders of a
large group, as you know, of Federal em-
ployees, did yeoman service at great politi-
cal cost to himself potentially. But I think
his courage and his ability to explain in
definitive and clear terms to those em-
ployees who were concerned has been in-
strumental in the final passage of this leg-
islation. And I'd like to ask if Ken Blay-
lock will say a word.
MR. CAMPBELL. This will be his second
speech, Mr. President.
MR. BLAYLOCK. Mr. President, I've al-
ready spoken to the group while we were
waiting earlier, but let me say this—the
real emphasis now has been said many
times here—there's a lot of players, every-
body's intent was the same. But now we've
got to make it work, and we've just opened
the door. And again, the American Fed-
eration of Government Employees and
AFL-CIO, who, by the way, all of you
know, lent great support to our efforts,
we're just proud to have played a role in
the development of this piece of legisla-
tion.
And thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Ken, very
much.
I think if anybody deserves to speak
twice, it would be Ken.
Scotty, you haven't said anything.
MR. CAMPBELL. We started before you,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't want to
close the ceremony without recognizing
Scotty Campbell. I think in every per-
son's remarks, certainly including my own,
we know who was the guiding light for
this legislation. And Scotty, because of
his superb professional ability and his own
integrity, his deserved trust that was built
up among all people toward him, made
this success possible. And I want to ex-
press my own thanks to him on behalf of
the American people for his leadership
now and for his leadership in the future.
1764
