Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dations for improvements in the imple-
mentation of Federal energy policies or
the management of energy resources that
involve two or more Executive agencies.
1-203. The functions of the Committee
shall neither substitute for nor replace Ex-
ecutive Office of the President clearance,
review, and decision-making procedures.
Those procedures shall also be used for
submitting to the President any of the
conclusions or recommendations devel-
oped through the Committee's energy co-
ordinating functions.
1-204. The Committee shall meet at
the call of the Chairman.
1-3. Executive Council.
1-301. During periods when the Com-
mittee is not meeting, the functions of the
Committee are delegated to an Executive
Council. Meetings may be called by any
regular member of the Council.
1-302. The Executive Council shall be
composed of the following, and such
others as may be appropriate due to the
specific matters to be considered.
(a) The Chairman of the Committee,
who shall be Chairman of the Executive
Council.
(b) The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
(c) The Chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
(d) The Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs.
(e) The Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs and Policy.
1-4. Revocation of a Prior Order. Ex-
ecutive Order No. 11814, as amended,
which provided for an Energy Resources
Council, is revoked.
The White House,
September 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:36 p.m., September 27, 1978]
Judicial Nominating Commission
for the District of Puerto Rico
Executive Order 12084. September 27, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in
order to create in accord with the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App. I) an advisory committee on judi-
cial nominations for the District of Puerto
Rico, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Commission.
1-101. There is established the Judi-
cial Nominating Commission for the Dis-
trict of Puerto Rico.
1-102. The Commission shall have
seven members appointed by the Presi-
dent. The President shall designate a
Chairman from among the members.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall begin
functioning when the President or his
designee notifies the Chairman that the
President desires the Commission's as-
sistance in identifying persons qualified to
fill a vacancy on the United States Dis-
trict Court for the District of Puerto Rico.
1-202. Upon receiving such notifica-
tion, the Commission shall:
(a) give public notice of the vacancy,
inviting suggestions as to potential nom-
inees;
(b) conduct inquiries to identify
potential nominees;
(c) conduct inquiries to identify,
among the potential nominees, persons
who are well qualified to serve as a United
States District Judge; and
(d) report to the President, within the
time specified in the notification, the re-
sults of its activities, including a list of the
persons whom the Commission considers
to be best qualified to fill the vacancy.
1638
