Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 12
what we in this country have always
known and believed, that Israel's greatest
wish is to live at peace and in good neigh-
borly relationships with all the countries
around Israel.
The United States is committed with-
out reservation to seeing this great process
through until each party to the Arab-
Israeli conflict is at peace with all the
others. Our own national interests are
deeply involved.
The question of peace or war in the
Middle East affects the well-being of
every American. But beyond this, the gen-
erations-old cycle of tragedy and suffering
speaks to America's moral conscience and
to our deep and lasting concern for hu-
man rights and the expansion of human
potential for peoples everywhere.
We will work hand in hand with all
involved parties until the job is done and
peace is assured.
Minister Moshe Dayan, Minister
Kamal Hassan Ali, Minister Ezer Weiz-
man, Minister Butrus Ghali, the Egyptian,
Israeli, and American peoples and people
throughout the world are depending on
you now. Our assistance is available.
My own personal involvement is as-
sured to you. Our hopes are with you, and
our prayers.
Thank you very much.
FOREIGN MINISTER DAYAN. Mr. Presi-
dent, members of the Egyptian delegation,
the Israeli delegation, distinguished
guests:
Allow me to thank on behalf of the Is-
raeli delegation the President of the
United States for his hospitality and ini-
tiative in advancing the peace process in
the Middle East.
Primarily, we appreciate your role in
the negotiations between the Egyptians
and the Israelis. It is our hope and belief
that we have reached the stage in which
we can finally conclude a peace treaty.
I know that we still have to overcome
many obstacles, but with you and your
aides' help, Mr. President, and the con-
structive spirit of the parties, we can ac-
complish peace.
Thank you very much again, and I am
happy that immediately after this distin-
guished ceremony here, we shall
go to the
Blair House to our working meeting.
Above all, this is the purpose of being
here.
Thank you very much.
DEFENSE MINISTER HASSAN ALI. Mr.
President, Israeli delegation, American
delegation, and guests:
Permit me at the outset to convey to
you President Sadat's warm greetings and
best wishes.
We are honored to present to you greet-
ings from 40 million Egyptians. They are
grateful to you, Mr. President, and to the
American people for your genuine inter-
est in peace in the Middle East. They will
always remember your great contribution
in Camp David to the cause of peace.
Mr. President, we are very happy to be
here to continue our endeavor for peace.
We are thankful to you for inviting us to
conduct the negotiation in your beautiful
country. Your invitation is a symbol of the
American commitment to a just and last-
ing peace in the Middle East. It is also
another affirmation of your pledge to act
as a full partner in the peace process.
We attach the greatest importance to
the continuation of this partnership until
a comprehensive peace is achieved in our
area, a comprehensive peace which en-
sures the fulfillment of the legitimate
rights of the Palestinian people and en-
ables them to play a constructive role in a
peaceful Middle East.
Mr. President, the peace-loving people
of Egypt have welcomed the outcome of
the Camp David meetings. Our people
1759
