Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to Jesse Owens in 1936—as a strong, in-
dependent voice for the people of Chicago
and most recently, as a visionary leader in
the Panama Canal Treaty ratification, he
was uncompromising in the pursuit of
excellence.
He stood always for equity. His political
energy was invested always on behalf of
his constituents, and his unexpected pass-
ing deprives his community, his col-
leagues, and the Nation of a staunch and
honest leader.
talks later this month and will leave his
position shortly thereafter.
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Nomination of Howard A. White To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
October 10, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Howard A. White, of
Brooklyn, N.Y., to be a member of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation for
United States Arms Control and Public Broadcasting. He would replace
Disarmament Agency
Resignation of Paul C. Warnke as Director of
the Agency and Negotiator for the Strategic
Arms Limitation Talks. October 10, 1978
The President has accepted with deep
regret the resignation of Paul C. Warnke
as Director of the United States Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency and
SALT negotiator, to be effective later this
month.
W. Allen Wallis, resigned.
White, 50, is senior vice president and
general counsel of ITT World Communi-
cations, Inc., and executive director of its
legal and regulatory administration de-
partment. He worked for the Federal
Communications Commission from 1962
to 1966 as an attorney and as Assistant
Chief of the Common Carrier Bureau.
In accepting the resignation, the Presi- Federal Election Commission
dent said that Mr. Warnke's service has
enhanced the security of the United States
and made a lasting contribution to world
peace.
His courage and competence have
helped to bring the United States within
sight of a new SALT agreement as well
as enabling us to make solid progress in
many other arms control initiatives, the
President said.
Mr. Warnke's resignation, which is for
personal reasons, reflects the fact that
when he undertook his present assign-
ment, he informed the President that he
could remain only for a limited period
of time because of personal commitments.
Mr. Warnke will accompany Secretary
Vance when he goes to Moscow for SALT
Nomination of Max L. Friedersdorf To Be a
Member. October 10, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Max L. Friedersdorf, of
Alexandria, Va., to be a member of the
Federal Election Commission.
Friedersdorf was born July 7, 1929, in
Grammer, Ind. He received an A.B. from
Franklin College in 1952 and an M.A.
from American University in 1970.
From 1952 to 1960, Friedersdorf was
a reporter and editor with the Indianap-
olis News, Chicago Daily News, Louisville
Times, and Franklin (Indiana) Evening
Star. From 1961 to 1970, he was an ad-
ministrative assistant and press secretary
for the U.S. House of Representatives.
1744
