Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
other bill, which would include everything
except the crude oil equalization tax-that
would be carried over till next year-a
few other smaller items.
Civil service reform is something we've
struggled with now for 20 months. The
conference committee concluded its work
yesterday in a spirit of harmony. I think
that will be concluded now.
Airline deregulation, which has been
hung up because it's tied to an airline
noise bill, has now been separated. I met
with the key conferees yesterday, and they
are prepared to move on that.
We have many other items that are
important. The full employment bill, of
course, is important; the equal rights
amendment extension is important to over
half the American people. And we have
in addition a wide range of mandatory
bills, appropriations bills and authoriza-
tion bills which must be presented to me
in a fiscally responsible way, otherwise
they'll face disapproval here in the White
House.
We've now had almost exactly a year of
experience with the 1977 farm act, which
was perhaps the most far-reaching legis-
lation that was passed in 1977. I think the
results have been good. We are making
remarkable progress in improving the net
farm income. We've made good progress
in increasing farm exports; last year set an
all-time record in spite of very low unit
prices. This year we expect to improve
upon that.
We still are trying to assess any needs
for change. We're going to have good
crops, I think, this year in some of the
basic commodity items, and the set-aside
programs we're trying to orient and also
to describe so that they'll be construc-
tive. We're trying to increase the quality
of our farm products, both at the ship-
ping points and all kinds of grains. And,
of course, we're trying to leave the bot-
tom four leaves of tobacco plants-do
different things that the farmers can do
on their own that might cut down the
volume when that volume is comprised
of marginal quality of portion of ship-
ments for sales.
In foreign affairs, we are progressing
slowly, sometimes haltingly, but I think
in a good spirit, with the Soviet Union in
concluding a SALT agreement, hopeful-
ly this year. I'll meet tomorrow morning
with Foreign Minister Gromyko, who's
been meeting the last 2 days in New York
with Secretary Vance on that and a com-
prehensive test ban.
We've had good success, as you know,
trying to make a major stride toward
well-publicized effort at Camp David in
peace in the Middle East. Yesterday, I
spoke by telephone both to President Sa-
dat and to Prime Minister Begin. They're
both pleased with the Knesset vote.
And I see really no difficult problems to
be resolved in concluding a peace treaty
between Egypt and Israel. The only hold-
up in an immediate commitment to ne-
gotiations is just the technicalities of
getting the delegations chosen, determin-
ing a site, and there are holy days or im-
portant national days both in Egypt and
Israel which will be concluded about 2
weeks from now.
So, I don't see any problems there. I'd
be surprised if some insurmountable
problem did arise. I won't go into other
details on foreign and domestic policy.
I'd rather spend my time with you an-
swering your questions.
QUESTIONS
BEEF IMPORTS
Q. Mr. Carter, would you sign the
Bentsen bill on the countercyclical cattle
imports if it got to your desk?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I wouldn't ap-
prove the Bentsen bill as it was drafted.
1672
