Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
As soon as the negotiations can be com-
pleted, hopefully within just 2 or 3
months, there will be a self-government
set up in the Palestinian area with full
autonomy. The Israeli military govern-
ment will be withdrawn for the first time
in many years, and the people will have a
chance to administer their own affairs,
including the right to worship.
I believe that you would agree that this
is a major step forward, the first time it
has been accomplished.
Now, of course, the fact remains that
many issues still remain to be resolved.
And in the absence of a willingness of
the Palestinians themselves to negotiate
further and in the absence of a willingness,
for instance, for King Hussein to negoti-
ate further-because some of these dis-
putes involve Jordan; many of the inhab-
itants of the West Bank, for instance, are
Jordanian citizens-the progress we can
make will be limited.
But President Sadat has committed
himself to me in writing, a letter released
yesterday, that in the absence of coopera-
tion or participation by, for instance, King
Hussein, he himself will continue the ne-
gotiations, not just on the Sinai relating
to Egypt-Israel but also will continue the
negotiations concerning the West Bank
and Gaza Strip area.
We've addressed as best we could, also,
the problems of the refugees and also the
displaced persons who left that area as a
result of different events that have oc-
curred in the last 30 years.
So, I believe we are making great strides
toward realizing the hopes that you have
just outlined, to terminate military rule
and to give people a chance to worship as
they please. And I'm proud to report that
to you and believe that we can do even
more in the future when all the negotiat-
ing parties are willing to sit down and take
advantage of the wonderful door that has
now been opened because of the Camp
David agreement.
ANTITRUST POLICY
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. My
name is William R. Petrelli. I reside in
Hopewell Township.
The question I want to ask you is why
did Attorney General Bell go against the
recommendation of the Justice Depart-
ment Antitrust Division and okay the
merger of LTV and Lykes Company?
This will cost jobs in Aliquippa.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. That's
a decision, as you know, that's made inde-
pendently of the White House.
This was a result of a lawsuit and other
matters concerning enforcement of the
antitrust laws. And under our Constitu-
tion, as you well know, there's a very
sharp division between the rights and re-
sponsibilities of the judiciary system, the
rights and responsibilities of the executive
branch of Government, and the rights
and responsibilities of the legislative
branches of Government.
These decisions by the Attorney Gen-
eral, who of course does serve on my
Cabinet, can be appealed and might be
resolved in the future. I don't know the
details of the case, have not been involved
in it myself. My own commitment, how-
ever, is, after this very controversial de-
cision is made, to minimize the damage
that might be done to any community,
including your own. And I pointed out a
few minutes ago in my opening statement
that although there are serious problems
in the steel industry, that we have made
progress in rejuvenating or giving new life
to the American steel industry. And I
think that although there are always con-
cerns about any unemployment, the un-
employment in your area is among the
lowest in the whole Nation with, I think,
5.1 percent in July of this year, which are
1610
