July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President's Commission on
Pension Policy
Executive Order 12071. July 12, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to create
in accordance with the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an
advisory commission on national policies
for retirement, survivor, and disability
programs, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of Commission.
1–101. There is established the Presi-
dent's Commission on Pension Policy.
The Commission shall be composed of
eleven members.
1-102. The members of the Commis-
sion shall be appointed by the President.
The President shall designate a Chair-
man from among the members.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall conduct
a comprehensive review of retirement,
survivor, and disability programs existing
in the United States, including private,
Federal, State and local programs.
1-202. The Commission shall develop
national policies for retirement, survivor,
and disability programs that can be used
as a guide by public and private programs.
Those policies must be designed to ensure
that the Nation has effective and equita-
ble retirement, survivor, and disability
programs which take into account avail-
able resources and demographic changes
that are expected into the middle of the
next century.
1-203. The Commission shall submit to
the President a series of reports. These
reports shall include the Commission's
findings and recommendations on short-
term and long-term issues with respect to
retirement, survivor, and disability pro-
grams, including, but not restricted to,
the following:
(a) present overlaps and gaps among
the private, State and local sectors in
providing income to retired, surviving,
and disabled persons;
(b) the financial ability of present pri-
vate, Federal, State and local retirement,
survivor, and disability systems to meet
their future obligations;
(c) appropriate retirement ages, the
relationship of the annuity levels to past
earnings and contributions, and the role
of current retirement, survivor, and dis-
ability programs in private capital for-
mation and economic growth;
(d) the implications of the recom-
mended national policies for the financing
and benefit structures of the retirement,
survivor, and disability programs in the
public and private sectors; and
(e) specific reforms and organizational
changes in the present systems that may
be required to meet the goals of the
national policies.
1-204. The Commission shall submit
tions and findings, to the President prior
its final report, including its recommenda-
to its termination.
1-3.
Administrative Provisions and
Financial Support.
1-301. At the request of the Chair-
man each Executive agency that has an
interest or responsibility in the areas of
the Commission's functions shall desig-
nate an individual to act as liaison with
the Commission and its staff.
1-302. In performing its functions, the
Commission shall seek the advice of in-
dividuals and groups interested in poli-
cies applicable to retirement, survivor,
and disability programs and systems. In
seeking advice from interested individuals
and groups, including public and private
organizations, the Commission or any
committee thereof, may, among other
activities, hold hearings and sit and act at
1264
