Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton,
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
pro-
mulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of the oppor-
tunity to engage in a subsistence lifestyle
by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population
if necessary for reasons of public safety,
administration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of
this monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:04 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Lake Clark National Monument are
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
ber 5, 1978.
Misty Fiords National
Monument
Proclamation 4623. December 1, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Misty Fiords is an unspoiled coastal
ecosystem containing significant scientific
and historical features unique in North
America. It is an essentially untouched
two million-acre area in the Coast Moun-
tains of Southeast Alaska within which
are found nearly all of the important geo-
logical and ecological characteristics of
the region, including the complete range
of coastal to interior climates and ecosy-
tems in a remarkably compact area.
Among the objects of geologic impor-
tance are extraordinarily deep and long
fiords with sea cliffs rising thousands of
feet. Active glaciers along the Canadian
border are remnants of the massive ice
bodies that covered the region as recently
as about 10,000 years ago, at the end of
the Pleistocene epoch. However, there
have been periodic glacial advances and
retreats in more recent historic periods.
Some of the area has been free from gla-
ciation for only a short period of time,
creating the unusual scientific phenome-
non of recent plant succession on newly-
exposed land with the accompanying an-
imal species. The Behm Canal, the ma-
jor inlet at the heart of the area, is more
than fifty miles long and extraordinary
among natural canals for its length and
depth.
The watershed of the Unuk River,
which comprises the northern portion of
the Misty Fiords area, has its headwaters
in Canada. It is steeply mountainous and
glaciated and contains the full range of
ecosystems and climates from interior to
coastal. Mineral springs and lava flows
add to the uniqueness of the area and its
value for scientific investigation. South of
the Unuk, the Chickamin River System
and the Le Duc River originate in active
glaciers and terminate in Behm Canal.
Further south, Rudyerd Bay Fiords and
Walker Cove are surrounded by high,
cold lakes and mountains extending east-
ward to Canada.
2134
