Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 4
1
know, for Congressman Fisher and for
Scotty Campbell and the superb panel
that we've had.
I've learned a lot tonight from your
questions and from listening to the
answers of others. We are all partners in
the same enterprise, that is, to have a
great government, with dedicated public
servants, trying to give better services to
the people who trust us. And there's a
general appreciation throughout the
country of not only our country and our
Government but individual employees as
well. And I think we can make it even
better if this exciting and sometimes con-
fusing, sometimes dreaded legislation be-
comes law.
The only dread comes in because peo-
ple are afraid to make a change. But I
can assure you—and as you know, Scotty
Campbell is the Chairman of the Civil
Service Commission, and he will join me
assuring you that every aspect of this
legislation as it is changing the present
laws will be for the advantage of the
competent and dedicated public servants
who make our Government as great as
it is.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The discussion began at 8 p.m. in the
Fairfax High School cafeteria in Fairfax City,
Va. It was broadcast live on radio and tele-
vision.
Agricultural Credit Act of 1978
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
August 4, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. During the last 18
months, the Democratic Congress and this
administration has recognized the pro-
found need of American farmers to have
a chance to meet two basic requirements.
As a farmer myself for most of my life,
and recognizing the attitude of American
agricultural leaders and family farmers, I
know that farmers don't want a handout.
What they want is two basic things: first
of all, to have fair prices and predictable
market opportunities—and the agricul-
tural act, the farm bill of 1977, gave them
an unprecedented opportunity to have
that need met.
We've seen a dramatic improvement in
the economic well-being of farm families
since the 1977 act went into effect last
October. This year farm income will in-
crease 25 percent, net farm income,
about $52 or $6 billion.
Last year we set a record on total farm
exports in spite of very low prices for
products. This year we hope to exceed
even that record level of farm exports.
So, we've taken care, I believe, in the best
possible way, with good bipartisan coop-
eration between the Congress and the
administration, of that one need of
farmers.
The other need that farmers have is to
be provided with the resources to keep
their operations going, to expand them if
necessary, to change the circumstances
under which they operate with rapidly
changing conditions in American and
worldwide agricultural community. This
bill, the Agricultural Credit Assistance
Act of 1978, meets that other need.
In 40 years this is the most far-reaching
and effective farm and rural credit legis-
lation that the Congress has passed. After
very careful analysis by us in the admin-
istration and the Congress, basic decisions
were made, both to save the American
taxpayers money and also to meet the
needs of farmers who have requirements
that have not previously been met.
There is in H.R. 11504, this legisla-
tion, an opportunity for new emergency
loan programs. We are updating the level
of loans that can be granted to farmers
who have, in large farm operations and
higher credit costs, and who have suffered
1375
