Oct. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
velop cooperative international solutions
to the world copper industry's problems
in the context of discussions in the
UNCTAD Integrated Program for Com-
modities. Import relief would also affect
our bilateral relations with Canada and
with LDC copper producers, such as
Chile, Zambia, and Peru, who are heav-
ily dependent on copper exports as a
source of foreign exchange earnings.
5. Trade adjustment assistance bene-
fits have been and will continue to be
available to copper mine, smelter, and
refinery workers.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:46 p.m., October 20, 1978]
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
White House Statement Following Meetings
With the Israeli and Egyptian Delegations.
October 20, 1978
President Carter met this afternoon
with the Israeli and Egyptian delegations
to the peace talks. The President's meet-
ings followed the presentation Thursday
evening of a revised United States ne-
gotiating draft of the main articles of the
peace treaty between Egypt and Israel.
During the meetings with the Presi-
dent, both sides reviewed the progress of
the negotiations and the remaining issues
to be resolved. The meetings were held
prior to consultations that both delega-
tions will conduct with their govern-
ments.
As stated earlier today, the parties will
be consulting separately with their gov-
ernments about the current status of the
negotiations. The President's meetings
this afternoon were designed to assist
those consultations.
Ambassador al-Baz of the Egyptian
delegation has gone to London to con-
sult with Vice President Mubarak, who is
on a tour of several European capitals.
Vice President Mubarak intends to re-
turn to Cairo to give President Sadat an
up-to-date report on the status of the
negotiations.
Israeli Foreign Minister Dayan and De-
fense Minister Weizman, along with Pro-
fessor Barak and Dr. Rosenne, are re-
turning to Israel Saturday night for con-
sultations with their government. Both
the United States and Egyptian delega-
tions were informed of this decision in
advance. The ministers plan to be in
Israel several days, returning to the con-
ference about midweek next week.
Working contacts between members of
all three delegations here in Washington
will continue during their absence.
In addition to the President, those at-
tending the meetings on the American
side were: Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski; Am-
bassador Alfred Atherton; Herbert Han-
sell, Counsel, State Department; William
Quandt, NSC staff; Hamilton Jordan,
Assistant to the President.
In addition to Ministers Dayan and
Weizman, members of the Israeli delega-
tion included: Ambassador Simcha Din-
itz; Ely Rubinstein, Assistant Director
General, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In addition to Minister Hassan Ali and
Minister of State Butrus Ghali, members
of the Egyptian delegation included: Am-
bassador Ashraf Ghorbal; Ambassador
Abdallah al-Erian, legal adviser.
1806
