Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 5
the event the contractor becomes in-
volved in, or is threatened with, litigation
with a subcontractor or vendor as a re-
sult of such direction, the contractor may
request the United States to enter into
such litigation to protect the interests of
the United States." "
1-202. In subsection (c) of Section 203
of Executive Order No. 11246, as
amended, delete "contracting agency" in
the proviso and substitute "Secretary of
Labor" therefor.
1-203. In both the beginning and end
of subsection (d) of Section 203 of Execu-
tive Order No. 11246, as amended, delete
"contracting agency or the" in the phrase
"contracting agency or the Secretary”.
1-204. Section 205 of Executive Order
No. 11246, as amended, is amended by
deleting the last two sentences, which
dealt with agency designation of com-
pliance officers, and revising the rest of
that Section to read:
"Sec. 205. The Secretary of Labor shall
be responsible for securing compliance by
all government contractors and subcon-
tractors with this Order and any imple-
menting rules or regulations. All contract-
ing agencies shall comply with the terms
of this Order and any implementing rules,
regulations, or orders of the Secretary of
Labor. Contracting agencies shall cooper-
ate with the Secretary of Labor and shall
furnish such information and assistance
as the Secretary may require.".
1-205. In order to delete references to
the contracting agencies conducting in-
vestigations, Section 206 of Executive Or-
der No. 11246, as amended, is amended
to read:
"Sec. 206. (a) The Secretary of Labor
may investigate the employment practices
of any Government contractor or subcon-
tractor to determine whether or not the
contractual provisions specified in Section
202 of this Order have been violated. Such
investigation shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with the procedures established
by the Secretary of Labor.".
"(b) The Secretary of Labor may re-
ceive and investigate complaints by em-
ployees or prospective employees of a Gov-
ernment contractor or subcontractor
which allege discrimination contrary to
the contractual provisions specified in
Section 202 of this Order.".
1-206. In Section 207 of Executive Or-
der No. 11246, as amended, delete "con-
tracting agencies, other" in the first
sentence.
1-207. The introductory clause in Sec-
tion 209(a) of Executive Order No.
11246, as amended, is amended by de-
leting "or the appropriate contracting
agency" from "In accordance with such
rules, regulations, or orders as the Sec-
retary of Labor may issue or adopt, the
Secretary or the appropriate contracting
agency may:".
1-208. In paragraph (5) of Section
209(a) of Executive Order No. 11246, as
amended, insert at the beginning the
phrase "After consulting with the con-
tracting agency, direct the contracting
agency to", and at the end of paragraph
(5) delete "contracting agency" and sub-
stitute therefor "Secretary of Labor" so
that paragraph (5) is amended to read:
"(5) After consulting with the con-
tracting agency, direct the contracting
agency to cancel, terminate, suspend, or
cause to be cancelled, terminated or sus-
pended any contract, or any portion or
portions thereof, for failure of the contrac-
tor or subcontractor to comply with equal
employment opportunity provisions of the
contract. Contracts may be cancelled, ter-
minated, or suspended absolutely or con-
tinuance of contracts may be conditioned
upon a program for future compliance ap-
proved by the Secretary of Labor.”.
1-209. In order to reflect the transfer
from the agencies to the Secretary of La-
bor of the enforcement functions, substi-
1715
