Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President's Council on Physical
Fitness and Sports
Executive Order 12098. November 14, 1978
PHYSICAL FITNESS AND SPORTS
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to amend
the composition of the President's Coun-
cil on Physical Fitness and Sports, Exec-
utive Order No. 11562, as amended by
Executive Order No. 11945, is hereby fur-
ther amended by revising Section 2(a) to
read as follows:
"There is hereby established the Presi-
dent's Council on Physical Fitness and
Sports, hereinafter referred to as the
Council, which shall be composed of fif-
teen members appointed by the President.
The Chairman shall be designated by the
President from among the members. The
Council shall meet at the call of the
Chairman.".
The White House,
November 14, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:38 a.m., November 15, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on November 15.
President's Council on Physical
Fitness and Sports
Appointment of 11 Members.
November 15, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of 11 persons as members
of the President's Council on Physical Fit-
ness and Sports. They are:
HENRY AARON, of Atlanta, Ga., the baseball
star, now vice president of the Atlanta
Braves;
ANITA DE FRANTZ, a staff attorney at the Juve-
nile Law Center of Philadelphia, and a
bronze medalist on the U.S. Olympic row-
ing team in 1976;
DOROTHY HAMILL, the Olympic gold medalist
in ice skating, now with the Ice Capades;
MARY JOANNE JOHNSON, of Phoenix, Ariz.,
who is active in community affairs and sup-
ports a physical fitness program for house-
wives;
SAMMY LEE, a physician in Orange County,
Calif., and an Olympic gold medalist in div-
ing in 1948;
ALFRED J. MCGUIRE, a commentator on col-
lege basketball for NBC, vice president of a
sporting goods firm, and a former profes-
sional basketball player;
JAMES A. NICHOLAS, of Scarsdale, N.Y., an or-
thopedic surgeon and expert on sports medi-
cine;
DINAH SHORE, the television show hostess,
sponsor of the Dinah Shore golf tourna-
ments;
CLAUDE E. TERRY, of Atlanta, president of a
consulting firm specializing in environmental
studies, and an expert on whitewater canoe-
ing and kayaking;
JOSEPH B. SMITH, chairman of the board of
Elektra/Asylum Records;
LEROY T. WALKER, professor of physical edu-
cation at North Carolina Central and head
coach of the U.S. track and field team at the
1976 Olympics.
Margaret Mead
Statement on the Death of the
Anthropologist. November 15, 1978
Margaret Mead's life was impressively
full and productive. Beginning with the
publication of "Coming of Age in Sa-
moa," half a century ago, she brought the
humane insights of cultural anthropology
to a public of millions. In her life as in
her thought, she went wherever her prob-
ing intelligence would take her. Intrepid
and independent, she was a model for
several generations of young Americans,
especially women. She was loved for her
2036
