Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 18
of incentive for the private sector to bear
some of the costs of on-the-job training
oriented programs?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We have more
than doubled both the public service job
possibilities and also the encouragement
of private employment, with Government
incentives of all kinds-tax breaks, a
sharing of costs of hiring new people and
training programs on the job—in the pri-
vate sector.
We've also had good success from the
business leaders-the National Associa-
tion of Businessmen and others-in
putting into effect their own voluntary
programs, where the Government is only
slightly involved.
We've made some progress. I think the
reduction of unemployment has made it
possible now to focus more and more on
the chronically unemployed-those who
are most difficult to employ and the first
ones to be fired if things go the wrong
way. And as you know, the primary group
that has not yet been helped is the young
group, minorities in particular.
I think that we have not backed off at
all from the level, the very high level of
Federal job opportunities and encourage-
ment of private job opportunities that we
initiated at the beginning of our employ-
ment drive 15 or 18 months ago. Even in
spite of inflation, that emphasis is still
being maintained.
TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Q. I come from a highly textile part
of the country, and they're concerned
over the textile tariff bill that you vetoed.
What was your particular problem with
it, your main objection?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it was com-
pletely counterproductive as far as help-
ing the textile industry itself. What it did,
in effect, was say that in the multilateral
trade negotiations, which opens up in-
creased opportunities for trade in textile
and all other products, that we could not
even discuss or negotiate on the subject of
textiles. Had that bill been signed into
law, the entire effort on multilateral trade
negotiations would have broken down.
We've had very good response from the
labor unions who represent textile work-
ers, because of the veto. And as you know,
in certain areas where textiles are in-
volved, we have negotiated bilateral
agreements with individual nations to
hold down the level of their textile ship-
ments to us.
But I'm deeply concerned. We have
about 60, 65,000 textile jobs in Georgia.
And I know in South Carolina and North
Carolina-and others have a similar, even
more greater dependence.
But I just don't think the bill was ad-
visable at all and, in my opinion, would
ultimately hurt the textile industry as
badly as it would other industries in our
country.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank all of you. I
would like, if you don't have any objec-
tion, to get a photograph with each one
of you. [Laughter] That'll take 2 or 3
minutes. But yes?
CYPRUS NEGOTIATIONS
Q. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President,
on the Cyprus issue, do you feel that there
has been any progress after lifting the
embargo?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, there has been
progress; there has been progress.
Q. Can you be more detailed?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think this is
something that ought to be handled very
privately among the leaders involved.
As you know, both in Greece and Tur-
key, among the Turkish Cypriots and the
2067
