Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
First, my question is going to be di-
rected to Bob Graham, the Governor of
Florida, but now I must add our Presi-
dent because he's here. I want to say this
before I forget it. This is one of the great-
est honors in my life, my 55 years work-
ing for the Democratic Party, to be before
this great group of people.
In this foreign beef supplies-may fall
short of quotas-this is from the Des
Moines Register, December 1. I'll be very
brief about this, because maybe you and I
can help out the President on a veto. The
Governor of my State, reported, sent him
a wire to not veto it.
This is in the mid-term conference.
"No matter❞—they're talking about-
"No matter what he decides"-that's
President Carter—“on the nearest meat
import question, Carter could anger
either consumers or farmers."
I live on what we call an average size
farm, 470 acres. My son farms it, and I
help him now, very active in it. Now, we
raise corn, beans, cattle, and hogs-and
a supplier of meat. How would you—the
Governor of my State sent-I believe it is
reported-President Carter a message or
wire to veto the bill.
How would you, Governor of Florida,
you told us here that you raised beef, that
you built houses-and I forgot the other
one. [Laughter] But as a beef grower,
how would you I'll answer you first if
you want me to, what I would have done.
[Laughter] Politically, I don't think it
would have been very sound for a Presi-
dent to have signed it. And I don't feel
that I would want any of my Presidents to
cver have his hands tied on a little thing
like this when the meat supplied in now is
1.5 billion. He only raised it to 200
million.
What did you do on this bill do you
send the President? Would you have
signed it, vetoed it or not? Now, you raise
cattle.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. I've
got to stop you, sir.
Q. Okay, sir.
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR O'NEILL. The
Governor-elect will have an opportunity
to answer it when we're summarizing.
And I'm going to come over to this side
of the room and provide the next person
an opportunity. Thank you very much.
FEDERAL SPENDING
Q. Good morning, Mr. President, dis-
tinguished panelists. I just have four short
questions. My name is James Fite from
Baltimore, Maryland.
First is that it appears to me that both
the Revenue Act of 1978 and the inflation
policy, as Mr. Kahn has explained it, are
discriminatory, depending on how one
earns one's income. For instance, I am an
hourly worker and earn my income in
that manner. I can't debate the policy.
My boss just told me I'd get a 7-percent
raise; there's no question in my mind
what's going to happen-got to go along
with it. Right? I want to know what con-
trols are going to be made on profits,
number one.
Number two, I don't understand the
economic thinking that says that a con-
tinual decline in real wages, which ap-
pears to me would mean that the only way
we can continue our standard of living
is with the extension of consumer debt,
which seems to be on the increase-I
don't see how that decline or policies that
continue to enforce that decline can pull
understand it from your point of view.
us out of inflation. I just simply don't
Third is, I don't understand how this
distinguished panel can sit here and give
the presentations they gave to us today
without once discussing the military
budget and its purposes and reasons for
inflation.
2213
