Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 5
of goats and sheep (except lamb)) of
part 2B, schedule 1 of the Tariff Sched-
ules of the United States, which may be
entered, or withdrawn from warehouse,
for consumption during the calendar year
1978, is limited to 1,183.9 million pounds.
2. In accord with Section 2(d) of the
Act, I determine that the supply of meat
described in Paragraph 1 hereof will be
inadequate to meet domestic demand at
reasonable prices.
3. The limitation proclaimed in Para-
graph 1 hereof is suspended during the
period of calendar year 1978, which is the
period that I determine to be necessary to
carry out the purposes of Section 2(d) of
the Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fourth day of July,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:09 a.m., July 6, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was
released on July 5.
up a framework for assisting small busi-
ness participation in the important areas
of solar energy and energy conservation.
Bringing solar and conservation tech-
nologies into wide-scale use will require
a strong effort by American small busi-
nesses. I am approving this new program
because I am disappointed with the past
performance of the Small Business Ad-
ministration in this effort. I am directing
the Administrator of the SBA to marshal
his authorities under this new program
and under existing law to more actively
involve small firms in solar energy and
energy conservation.
Finally, I would ask the Congress to
work with me in ensuring that this new
program does not increase our overall
budget for the Small Business Administra-
tion. I believe the SBA's resources are ade-
quate and that this new program can be
funded from within the moneys which I
requested in my fiscal year 1979 budget
request.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11713 is Public Law
95-315, approved July 4.
The statement was released on July 5.
Small Business Energy
Loan Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 11713 Into Law.
July 4, 1978
I am signing today H.R. 11713, the
small business energy loan program. This
act will provide Federal loans and loan
guarantees to small businesses to engage
in the design, manufacture, marketing,
and installation of solar technologies and
energy conservation practices. Senator
Thomas McIntyre and Congressmen
Berkley Bedell and Alvin Baldus, the spon-
sors of this act, have worked hard to set
Highway Safety and National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety
Acts of 1966
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Two Reports. July 5, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
The 11th annual reports on the admin-
istration of the Highway Safety and Na-
tional Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1966 are transmitted for your con-
sideration. The volume on motor vehicle
safety contains the reporting requirements
of the Motor Vehicle Information and
Cost Savings Act of 1972. Also included
are highlights from the second annual re-
1237
