Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 14
and minds of the farmers who stayed at
home.
Things have changed for the better
since then. The new programs passed by
Congress have now begun to take effect.
Net farm income in 1978, this year, will
be up about 25 percent over last year—
that's income above costs, an increase of
more than $5 billion. Beef prices should
be strong and relatively stable for the last
half of this year, and Glenn Grimes of the
University of Missouri has said that the
general price of cattle will be very strong
for the next 3 or 4 years. If demand stays
high, which we expect it to do, stable
prices, sustained, even increasing herd
sizes, and adequate domestic meat pro-
duction is important for farmers and also
for consumers.
Our decisions have been sound, care-
ful, and well considered. I will not permit
any more expansion in beef imports this
year. I will not permit unrestricted beef
imports next year. And I am strongly
and permanently opposed to any price
controls on meat or other farm products.
Last year, in spite of low unit costs,
which you well remember, we set a record
for American farm exports-$24 billion—
and American farmers will export even
more this year than ever before in our
history. We are now opening new trade
offices in key foreign trade centers to pro-
mote farm exports. The time for uncer-
tainty and for unpredictable, government-
imposed embargoes on farm exports is
over.
When those embargoes were imposed in
the past, without notice to American
farmers and without notice to our cus-
tomers, it hurt us in two severe ways. One
was that American farmers lost income.
And secondly, those customers began to
turn to other nations where the supply
of vital farm products was more certain.
We know, also, that a successful multi-
lateral trade negotiation agreement must
include improved access in foreign mar-
kets for American agricultural products.
We are doing everything we can-in trade
negotiations, extending credit; trade pro-
motion, to strengthen agricultural exports
even more.
America's agricultural productivity and
the family farm structure are among the
greatest accomplishments of Western civ-
ilization. But our agriculture will remain
the wonder of the world only so long as
we remember a basic fact: The person
most competent to make a farmer's de-
cisions is not a bureaucrat in Washington
or anywhere else; it's the man or woman
on the farm. That's why I will always pro-
tect the Capper-Volstead Act of 1922, the
basis for this organization.
I want to go as far as I possibly can to
get the Government out of the farm busi-
ness of America. That's why the first few
months after I took office, I spent more
hours working on the 1977 food and agri-
cultural act, I believe, than on any other
single piece of legislation.
The effects of that bill, carefully con-
sidered and passed by a wise Congress in-
terested in you, are now being felt in
record net farm income all across the
country. This bill will mean fair return
for farmers, reasonable prices for con-
sumers, and a stable farm economy
throughout the next 4 years.
The farmer-owned grain reserve gives
you farmers a chance for better profits
through a strong voice in agricultural
markets. You, and not the grain dealers,
can now decide the best time to sell your
products, to bring profits to you and not
to them. We've already helped farmers to
build seven times more farm storage than
American farmers did in 1976. In Mis-
souri, you built 10 times more farm stor-
age in 12 months than you did in 1976.
We are still working on legislation that
will give farmers the financial resources to
1421
