Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
jobs of all, because I represent the great-
est nation on Earth.
It's getting better every day, with your
help. We have a young, vigorous, dy-
namic, confident, competent administra-
tion. Our Nation is the strongest on Earth.
It's the strongest militarily, and it's going
to stay that way. It's the strongest politi-
cally, because we believe in the dignity of
every human being, the right of people to
stand on their own feet, to make their own
decisions, to control their own govern-
ment, to let their own individuality be ex-
pressed. And we're trying to spread this
philosophy, this commitment, these ideals
around the world.
We now have a country where people
can trust the Government once again. I
remember just 3 or 4 years ago when
many Americans were ashamed of our
own Government. The Vietnam war was
one that turned many people against our
own country; the revelations in Water-
gate, where many of the top officials, as
you know, in our Government went to jail.
The CIA was violating the laws of our
Nation. Corruption, scandal pervaded our
Government. We've changed all of that.
We're trying to bring a government of
honesty, openness, and decency, of which
not only we can be proud, but which will
earn the respect of the rest of the world.
It's only through strength of character,
it's only through strength economically
that my own influence can be used, as your
President, to bring peace, not only to our
own people but to other trouble spots of
the world as well. I hope that I can go
out of office at the end of my term by say-
ing what I can say today, that not a single
American in uniform has shed blood in a
foreign country since I've been President.
We're going to try to keep that peace.
We've also raised high the banner of
human rights, and as long as I'm in the
White House, we will protect basic human
rights, not only in our own country but in
every country on Earth, and you can de-
pend on that as well.
I want to tell you why I came to Oregon
at this particular time. I want to let you
know the importance of government, the
importance of your participation, and
also to get out as many people as possible
to vote next Tuesday and to ask you to
vote for a superb Democratic ticket,
headed in Oregon by my good friend and
a great Governor, Bob Straub. I want you
to help him.
Some people say that Governor Straub
is not a good politician because he takes
difficult stands on controversial issues.
And I think that's true.
Oregon is the birthplace of the refer-
endum, where people can put on the bal-
lot issues that you consider to be important
to yourselves. He analyzes those issues.
He doesn't try to guess what's the most
popular thing to do. He's not wishy-washy
in his own decisions. He lets the people
know where he stands. He's a strong and
courageous leader, and he's helped
Oregon tremendously since he's been in
office.
If he has one fault, it's that he's overly
modest. When he came into office, Oregon
had the fourth highest unemployment rate
in the United States, 12 percent unem-
ployment. Bob Straub has brought that
unemployment down to 5 percent. He's
cut it more than in half, and now Oregon
is at the top in employment, not unem-
ployment.
He's tried to protect the environment
in Oregon at the same time-at the same
time he has helped to improve business
and jobs. Seventy-two new businesses have
been brought into Oregon to provide jobs
for you and those you care about; 175 ex-
isting Oregon businesses have expanded.
But at the same time Bob Straub believes
that the good quality of life that is en-
joyed in your State-and there is no bet-
ter quality of life anywhere on Earth-
1943
