Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
United Nations have undertaken a commit-
ment to act in accordance with Article 2 of
the Charter,
1. Affirms that the fulfillment of Charter
principles requires the establishment of a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East which
should include the application of both the
following principles:
(i) Withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from
territories occupied in the recent conflict;
(ii) Termination of all claims or states of
belligerency and respect for and acknowl-
edgement of the sovereignty, territorial in-
tegrity and political independence of every
State in the area and their right to live in
peace within secure and recognized bound-
aries free from threats or acts of force;
2. Affirms further the necessity
(a) For guaranteeing freedom of naviga-
tion through international waterways in the
area;
(b) For achieving a just settlement of the
refugee problem;
(c) For guaranteeing the territorial inviola-
bility and political independence of every
State in the area, through measures includ-
ing the establishment of demilitarized zones;
3. Requests the Secretary-General to desig-
nate a Special Representative to proceed to
the Middle East to establish and maintain
contacts with the States concerned in order to
promote agreement and assist efforts to achieve
a peaceful and accepted settlement in accord-
ance with the provisions and principles of this
resolution.
4. Requests the Secretary-General to report
to the Security Council on the progress of the
efforts of the Special Representative as soon as
possible.
TEXT OF UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION 338
Adopted by the Security Council at its 1747th
meeting, on 21/22 October 1973
The Security Council
1. Calls upon all parties to the present fight-
ing to cease all firing and terminate all military
activity immediately, no later than 12 hours
after the moment of the adoption of this deci-
sion, in the positions they now occupy;
2. Calls upon the parties concerned to start
immediately after the cease-fire the implemen-
tation of Security Council Resolution 242
(1967) in all of its parts;
3. Decides that, immediately and concur-
rently with the cease-fire, negotiations start
between the parties concerned under appropri-
ate auspices aimed at establishing a just and
durable peace in the Middle East.
FRAMEWORK FOR THE CONCLUSION OF A
PEACE TREATY BETWEEN EGYPT AND
ISRAEL
In order to achieve peace between
them, Israel and Egypt agree to negoti-
ate in good faith with a goal of conclud-
ing within three months of the signing of
this framework a peace treaty between
them.
It is agreed that:
The site of the negotiations will be
under a United Nations flag at a location
or locations to be mutually agreed.
All of the principles of U.N. Resolution
242 will apply in this resolution of the
dispute between Israel and Egypt.
Unless otherwise mutually agreed,
terms of the peace treaty will be imple-
mented between two and three years after
the peace treaty is signed.
The following matters are agreed be-
tween the parties:
(a) the full exercise of Egyptian sover-
eignty up to the internationally recognized
border between Egypt and mandated
Palestine;
(b) the withdrawal of Israeli armed
forces from the Sinai;
(c) the use of airfields left by the Is-
raelis near El Arish, Rafah, Ras en Naqb,
and Sharm el Sheikh for civilian purposes
only, including possible commercial use
by all nations;
(d) the right of free passage by ships
of Israel through the Gulf of Suez and the
Suez Canal on the basis of the Constan-
tinople Convention of 1888 applying to
all nations; the Strait of Tiran and the
Gulf of Aqaba are international water-
ways to be open to all nations for unim-
peded and nonsuspendable freedom of
navigation and overflight;
(e) the construction of a highway be-
tween the Sinai and Jordan near Elat
1527
