Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
look at the overall deterioration of educa-
tion and if reorganization, if that depart-
ment of education will not answer that
question in several ways.
THE PRESIDENT. We've had by far the
greatest increase in allocation of Federal
funds for education since I've been in
office, than ever before, even under the
halcyon days of Lyndon Johnson, when
the new elementary and secondary educa-
tion acts and the higher education acts
were passed. I think that was in 1965.
This is an achievement in itself.
We've tried to make the administration
more effective, and we've tried to con-
strain some of the unwarranted expendi-
tures like the very high allocation of im-
pact aid to very rich counties. We haven't
had complete success, but we are making
some progress.
I personally believe that we need a de-
partment of education and committed
to this when I was campaigning for Presi-
dent. Some of the teachers organizations
who are very highly influential, as you
know, in Washington and the State legis-
latures are divided on this issue. The
American Federation of Teachers, in gen-
eral, are opposed to it; the National Edu-
cation Association and their affiliates
around the country are in favor of it.
The reason that I feel that we need a
separate department of education, among
other things, is that around this table
when I meet with my Cabinet, we very
seldom have a question concerning educa-
tion arise.
When I was Governor, I probably spent
25 percent of my time on education. Here
I don't spend 1 percent of my time on ed-
ucation. And then quite often when the
subject does come up, it involves a contro-
versial lawsuit about the application of
Federal regulations concerning civil rights
and other important issues in a college or
a school, and not on how to give our chil-
dren a better education, using the substan-
tial amount of Federal funds available.
Another thing that's been highly con-
troversial is the thrust around the country
of testing achievement. One of the first
things I did as Governor of Georgia, was
to implement a comprehensive testing
program for students at the fourth grade
level, the seventh grade level, and the
eleventh grade level—at the fourth grade
level, basically to see if the children could
read and write and were prepared to go
on into the higher grades; at the seventh
and eighth grade level, to give them some
guidance on their high school career
choices; and at the eleventh grade level
to give them some guidance on what they
could do after they left high school.
I notice North Carolina has just done
the same thing. And I strongly believe
that there ought to be a testing program
available for those States that want it. I
am not in favor of a mandated Federal
program to be conducted nationwide.
This is a matter in which I differ with
some of my own administrators in the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare. But I believe the establishment of a
separate department can deal more effec-
tively with our children's needs.
I think by any measurement, our
schools are not doing a good enough job,
compared to the amount of money we are
putting into them. This is proven, at least
to some degree, by the results of the SAT
tests as children get ready to go into col-
lege and so forth. But I believe the in-
crease in expenditure of money carefully
focused on basic needs, a proper sharing
of State, Federal and local and private
funds for children's education, and con-
trol of the schools at the local and State
level-not at the Federal level-a sepa-
rate department of education; perhaps
some increase in testing programs around
the country to encourage better perform-
ance by students; analysis of their needs;
better performance by teachers-all these
1595
