Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
you've made, for the ethical code you de-
veloped, for your work with the United
Nations, and your many other progressive
and admirable acts. Organizations like
your own and the companies your mem-
bers represent have brought the benefits
of trade, technology, education, and medi-
cine to parts of the world that had been
too long without them.
But you realized as well as I how often
a few corporate leaders have been known
to exploit weak nations, to abuse poor and
inarticulate workers, to tolerate racism,
and often to overlook bribery, payoffs, and
corruption by trusted employees. You
know how often some have been unworthy
of the great power and influence they pos-
sess. And you know as well as I that power
long abused cannot be maintained. It can-
not be maintained, not only because it's
wrong but because it defies the historical
trend of our times.
For the past few decades, nationalism
was a vision which inspired and moved
people around the world to create a na-
tion that was independent, no matter how
small or weak it may have been. Now
that revolution, nationalism, has largely
been completed. And other goals are
emerging goals of justice, equity, human
rights, and freedom.
These are the wave of the present and
the wave of the future. We should not
fight this wave. We should ride it, be part
of it, encourage it, let it nurture a better
life for those who yearn and for those of
us who already enjoy. If we can marshal
our resources in the cause of right, if we
can pursue peace and justice as energeti-
cally as we pursue power and profit, then
we can achieve these goals and in the
process win the fight against our other
modern evils, such as international ter-
rorism, which threaten many of us.
These are all shared responsibilities,
ones you must take as seriously as I. But
there are some very specific responsibilities
of the United States Government which
I would like to mention briefly here this
evening, because they affect everyone here
and those you represent back home.
The United States has a responsibility
to contribute to global economic stability
and well-being. There are three impor-
tant steps our Nation is taking, based on
the commitments I made 2 months ago in
Bonn.
The first is to reduce inflation. I will
soon announce a tough new program de-
signed to bring inflation under control.
We've already acted to make sure that
the Government sets an example, cutting
unnecessary spending, reducing Federal
pay increases, removing unnecessary regu-
lations, cutting the Federal deficit, and
letting the free market set prices wherever
it can.
We've tried a quick experiment relat-
ing to the international and domestic air-
lines. Fares have been drastically reduced.
The number of passengers has been greatly
increased. The profits of the airlines have
also grown. Soon I will ask for an ex-
panded anti-inflation program with bal-
anced and reasonable sacrifices from busi-
ness, labor, and every other segment of
our economy, along with government.
The second step is to reduce our de-
pendence on foreign oil. We are on the
verge of enacting a comprehensive energy
program-I predict that it will be done
before the Congress adjourns-which will
increase our domestic production, shift to
more plentiful supplies of fuel, and reduce
the waste of all forms of energy in our
country.
Energy is a worldwide problem, and our
responsibilities extend far beyond our own
borders. We will never attempt to obstruct
exploration and the development of
worldwide energy resources. Our great
technology is available for others to use.
The third pledge we made at Bonn was
to expand our export and to broaden
1692
