Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 27
DOROTHY C. STEPHENS, of St. Louis, Mo., di-
rector of government relations and interna-
tional operations for an architectural/
engineering firm;
MIKKI A. EHRENFELD, of Lincoln, Mass., di-
rector of Ehrenfeld Productions, an inde-
pendent film production and free-lance
photography company;
AL G. LOEHR, mayor of St. Cloud, Minn.
President's Council on
Physical Fitness and Sports
Appointment of Governor Jerry Apodaca as
Chairman. July 26, 1978
The President today announced that he
will appoint Jerry Apodaca, Governor of
New Mexico, as Chairman of the Presi-
dent's Council on Physical Fitness and
Sports.
Apodaca, 43, has been Governor since
1974 and served in the New Mexico Sen-
ate from 1967 to 1974. He is a former
high school teacher and coach and an ac-
tive sports enthusiast.
Seminar on Employment
Remarks at a Reception for Participants in
the Seminar. July 27, 1978
If I could have your attention, we'll
wind up the work part, which is listening
to my speech, and we'll start on the fun
part.
Today I think most of you observed at
first hand how much work my wife can get
out of someone in just 1 day. [Laughter]
And I want you to remember that she
does me that way every day. [Laughter]
It's really been an exciting thing for me
to see Rosalynn work on this program and
the enormous support, advice, counsel,
help, sometimes constructive criticisms,
that she received from people who are in-
terested in the same thing that she and
I want to see happen in this country.
There were delegates here, or represent-
atives here from all 50 States and a very
large group from the District of Colum-
bia, including some of the top leaders in
all walks of life who can help to cement
the ties between the Federal Government
and those who need the services of it.
One of the constructive things that
came out today was the recognition of lo-
cal successes. Our country did not become
as great as it is today because of what
goes on in Washington, even when we
have had the greatest of Presidents and
the most constructive action by Congress.
The strength of our Nation is derived
from people like you, who in a quiet, ef-
fective way-knowing your own neigh-
bors, your own family, your own commu-
nities' needs-in an unselfish and some-
times inspired way, you and your fellow
workers evolve programs, sometimes
quite unstructured, to help those that
have been deprived in our society become
part of the wonderful life that we enjoy
in America.
This kind of success is often unrecog-
nized, even in the local press or even in
a women's organization or the Jaycees or
the NAACP or the Lions Club or church.
There are a lot of unheralded heroes in
the United States, and you really, in a
way, today represent them.
We've embarked on some ambitious
programs. I've only been in office about
18 months. When I came into office, we
had a very high unemployment rate, and
the Congress, the private business sector,
labor unions, my own administration,
many of you began to decide shortly
after the election in November of 1976
what could be done about it. We had 8
million people out of work. And this time
last year, even, whenever I had a meeting
with any group, the number one problem
1341
