Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
come forth with a proposal that the Con-
gress ultimately accepted.
I inherited 20 months ago a budget
deficit of $66 billion. I believe Democrats
ought to be fiscally responsible. I don't
think we ought to waste money. I think
we ought to manage the Government
well. I think we ought to be efficient, be-
cause you've never educated a child,
you've never fed a hungry person, you've
never built a house or a road with waste
and inefficiency. Wendy Anderson just
happens to serve on the Senate Budget
Committee, and we have already been
able, in 2 years, to cut the budget deficit of
the United States by more than $28 bil-
lion. And it's still on the way down, and
I need Wendy Anderson to help me get it
down.
I'm not going to go down a whole list
of things he's done, because that would
take too much time. But I would like to
say this: I believe that our country has
now and always must have the strongest
defense capability on Earth. Wendy An-
derson just happens to serve on the de-
fense committee in the Senate, the Armed
Services Committee. And he, along with
me next year, is committed to bringing to
our Nation a new SALT agreement ham-
mered out with the Soviets, protecting
our interests, to be another major step in
eliminating the threat of nuclear war, not
only for our own country and the whole
world. And I need Wendy Anderson in
Washington to help me get that SALT
agreement ratified by the Senate.
Rudy Perpich has been a good heir to
the Governorship of your great State. I
think he's brought a new tone to Min-
nesota politics which is very valuable.
He's shown already that he knows how to
cut taxes. He's pledged himself to cut
taxes even more in a responsible way, not
in a ridiculous way.
He's a tough Iron Ranger who knows
how to fight against waste. He believes in
a better education for children. He wants
to take care of the health of Minnesotans,
not just in Rochester, which has the great-
est medical center on Earth, but through-
out his State as well. And he's proven that
he has the ability to understand just com-
mon, ordinary, everyday, good people.
He's one of us. He's one of you. And I
hope you'll give him your support.
And I'd like to mention one other per-
son before I close, who's a fine young
candidate, who stayed home today from
Rome to be with me. And that's Gerry
Sikorski.
He was born in a rural community
like I was. His family knows what it means
to live under a Republican administra-
tion, because they lost their farm during
the great Hoover Depression. Gerry's
father worked on a railroad yard for 40
years. His family knows what it means
to be poor, to struggle, to have difficulties
and to overcome them.
This young man went to college be-
cause of his father's hard work. He grad-
uated near the top of his class and, as
you know, has been the attorney for a
township, which gives him a good in-
sight into the quality of life, not only in
rural areas, not only in the life of a poor
family, but also, he knows what makes a
city great.
This district needs a Democratic Con-
gressman. And I hope that you will help
me, and I hope that you will help our
Nation, and I hope that you will help.
yourselves by sending Gerry Sikorski to
the Congress with a great victory on
November 7.
I've observed Hubert Humphrey and
Muriel Humphrey, Wendy Anderson,
your congressional delegation. I can tell
you that Minnesota does not send rub-
berstamps to Congress. You keep the
congressional delegation toes to the fire.
And whenever there's a conflict in Wendy
Anderson's mind between what the Presi-
1824
