Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
By its vote today, the Congress has given
us an energy plan that will advance our
national security, ensure our freedom of
action in foreign affairs, and protect our
economic interests at home and abroad.
We will begin down the other side of the
mountain, away from the ever-mounting
demand for energy and ever-shrinking
supply. It sets our Nation on a course of
conservation, exploration, and application
of new technologies. It does so in a way
that gives producers incentives that are
adequate and consumers the supplies they
need.
The result will not be overnight mira-
cles. This is not the end of the road, but
it is a beginning, and an important one.
We have declared to ourselves and the
world our intent to control our use of
energy and thereby to control our own
destiny as a nation.
95th Congress
Statement by the President. October 15, 1978
I want to congratulate the Congress on
a record of accomplishment unmatched
in more than a decade. The American
people can be justly proud of the work
this Congress has done in solving some of
the Nation's most pressing problems.
When the 95th Congress assembled 21
months ago, its Members knew they had
been elected to tackle the country's basic
concerns. Our people wanted action to
put the economy back on course, to deal
with such long-neglected and critical
problems as energy, to make our Govern-
ment more efficient, and to equip our Na-
tion for the challenges of a changing
world.
Now that the Congress has adjourned,
its Members can look back with satisfac-
tion on the record that has been compiled.
In these 21 months, the Congress has
made progress on nearly all the crucial
areas of concern to our people. This prog-
ress was made possible by the sense of
cooperation, harmony, and trust that de-
veloped between my administration and
the Congress. The accomplishments of
this Congress truly reflect a commitment
to executive-legislative cooperation that
has been unparalleled in recent years.
The most important achievement is the
national energy act, which, along with the
creation of the Department of Energy,
will give our Nation the tools we need to
start down the road away from excessive
dependence on foreign oil. The act will
protect our consumers and producers, en-
hance our national security, and remove
one of the most pressing causes of infla-
tion and economic instability.
The Congress acted in other ways to
ensure our economic future. The eco-
nomic stimulus plan enacted last year has
helped us make the fastest progress against
unemployment in more than 25 years, and
the Humphrey-Hawkins act sets goals for
future noninflationary progress in the
same direction. The improvements in the
CETA program, the social security system,
and the food stamp program all mean that
the benefits of our economic progress will
be more fairly shared among all our
people.
At the same time, the Congress has
shown an awareness of the urgent prob-
lem of inflation, demonstrating its sense
of fiscal responsibility, especially in sus-
taining my vetoes of the public works and
defense bills.
Every sector of our economy will feel
the impact of bills passed during this
Congress:
-For our rural areas, the Congress
enacted an historic farm bill which has
already brought new prosperity to our
farmlands.
1784
