Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
politics and foreign policy. In 1976 she
was senior legislative assistant to Senator
Nelson, and also served as a policy analyst
on matters related to the State Depart-
ment for the Carter-Mondale Transition
Team. She is now with the Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace.
National Commission on Libraries
and Information Science
Nomination of Charles W. Benton
To Be a Member. August 18, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles W. Benton, of
Evanston, Ill., to be a member of the Na-
tional Commission on Libraries and In-
formation Science.
Benton, 47, has been with Encyclo-
pædia Britannica Films since 1953. He is
presently chairman and chief executive
officer of Films Inc., a subsidiary of En-
cyclopædia Britannica Films.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 12076. August 18, 1978
LEVELS IV AND V OF THE EXECUTIVE
SCHEDULE
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by Section 5317 of Title 5 of the
United States Code, in order to place in
level IV of the Executive Schedule the
positions of Senior Adviser to the Secre-
tary of State and Special Assistant to the
Special Representative for Trade Nego-
tiations, and in order to codify other posi-
tions presently placed in levels IV and V
of the Executive Schedule, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-1. Executive Schedule Positions.
1-101. The following positions are
placed in level IV of the Executive Sched-
ule:
(a) Senior Adviser to the Secretary,
Department of State.
(b) Director, United States Secret
Service, Department of the Treasury.
(c) Assistant Secretary (Enforcement
and Operations), Department of the
Treasury.
(d) Adviser to the Secretary and Dep-
uty Secretary of Defense for NATO Af-
fairs, Department of Defense.
(e) Assistant to the Secretary for Leg-
islative Affairs, Department of Defense.
(f) Assistant Attorney General, United
States Attorneys and Trial Advocacy, De-
partment of Justice.
(g) Director of Agricultural Econom-
ics, Department of Agriculture.
(h) Director, Office of Congressional
and Public Affairs, Department of Agri-
culture.
(i) Chief Economist, Department of
Commerce.
(j) Deputy Under Secretary for Re-
gional Affairs, Department of Commerce.
(k) Deputy Under Secretary for Inter-
national Labor Affairs, Department of
Labor.
(1) Administrator, Health Care Fi-
nancing Administration, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
(m) Administrator, Alcohol, Drug
Abuse and Mental Health Administra-
tion, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
(n) Administrator, Health Services Ad-
ministration, Department of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare.
(0) Administrator, Research and Spe-
cial Programs Administration, Depart-
ment of Transportation.
(p) Associate Directors (4), Office of
Management and Budget, Executive Of-
fice of the President.
1454
