Aug. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the health and safety of our workers, and
the strength of the organizations of
workers, the labor unions have let their
voices be heard. That's another factor
that causes us to have low productivity
rate increase compared to other countries.
Another one is that our Nation has been
prosperous for a long time. And we've
tended to shift to a style of life that not
only has a shorter work week than many
nations, but which also has more of an
investment or interest in service-one hu-
man being working in a career to make
the life of another human being more
pleasant or more healthy, and so forth.
And this doesn't show up in productivity.
If someone takes, say, a million dollars
and builds a recreation center or a Broad-
way theater or a motion picture theater
or produces phonograph records or has a
national symphony organized, that doesn't
show up in the productivity of our Na-
tion, but it gives our people a better life.
My understanding of the statistics is
that even when you have a drycleaning
establishment, that that doesn't show up
in productivity, although it lets us have a
better life and more freedom.
So, those are some factors that can't
very well be changed. I would say that
labor-management harmony, longstand-
ing contracts, a creation of more financial
capital through tax measures, and so
forth, so that it's very efficient, would in-
crease investment; it would provide more
jobs and more capital investment per
worker. One, for instance, would be the
comparison between, say, accelerated de-
preciation rates, which would encourage
immediate investments, compared to a
ridiculous capital proposal like the Steiger
amendment, which only lets very rich
people avoid paying their share of taxes.
very rich
So, I would say in all those factors,
we will have an opportunity to improve
production rates.
One other difference between
country and others—I don't want to give
you too long an answer-is that we don't
depend nearly so much on international
trade, exports, as do other nations. I
think that the percentage of our GNP
devoted to exports is maybe 6 or 7 percent.
Germany would be 30 percent, for in-
stance. And it's life or death for their
business community, in its totality, to be
highly competitive in production so they
can compete on the international market.
Obviously, we have some firms in the
United States who do the same thing and
do it very well. But we don't have that
driving force behind our whole conscious-
ness of business and professional leaders
in this country-exports, exports, exports;
whereas in Germany and Japan, that is
the battle cry.
And the last factor that I'll say is that
in many ways, our heaviest industry is
not so modern as is the case in, say,
Japan and Germany, where their indus-
trial fabric was destroyed in the Second
World War and has recently been built
back. This would apply, for instance, to
steel production.
So, those are some of the factors that
have to be improved to increase produc-
tivity.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't mean to give
you a dissertation.
I will answer one more question.
enough in basic research to ensure our
Q. Do you think that we are investing
future in this area of productivity?
THE PRESIDENT. No. That's another
factor that I should have mentioned. In
the last 10 years, in particular-I'd say
15 years, in particular—the percentage of
GNP or business income spent on basic
research and development has dropped
substantially; the same with government.
One of the substantial changes that I
have made in preparing the Federal
1416
