Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, July 14, 1978
Federal Law Enforcement
Assistance Programs
Remarks Announcing Reorganization
Legislation and a Department of Housing
and Urban Development Program.
July 10, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I think you notice from
the distinguished men and women on the
steps with me the importance of the sub-
ject that we will be discussing this morn-
ing. We've had a briefing for interested
persons from around the Nation on this
new proposal which I'm sure will be im-
plemented without delay.
Every American is concerned about
crime and every American is a potential
victim of crime. But that's only part of
our concern. Crime destroys the essential
fabric of our society in ways that go far
beyond individual suffering and loss. In
that sense, we are all victims. If our com-
munities are to be vibrant and safe, our
people cannot live in fear. We cannot let
criminals control our lives.
The primary responsibility for con-
trolling crime rests with local and State
officials, but the Federal Government can
and does provide essential and effective
support. Within the last year, we have
made some progress in reducing crime.
New jobs have been created. Crime rates
in almost every category have gone down,
but the rates are still too high and crime is
still of grave concern to me and other
Americans. There is clearly more that the
Federal Government can and should do
to solve this problem. Working in part-
nership with State and local govern-
ments, community organizations, and
concerned citizens, we can make a safer
America.
Since its creation a decade ago, the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administra-
tion, LEAA, has been the Federal Gov-
ernment's major tool to help local com-
munities, local officials carry out this re-
sponsibility. But it has never yet realized
its full potential,
As part of our reorganization efforts,
the Justice Department and the Office of
Management and Budget have been
working for the last 12 months, inten-
sively reviewing LEAA. We've involved
community leaders, public officials, and
law enforcement specialists from through-
out the Nation. We've also had valuable
counsel and assistance from congressional
leaders, such as Senator Kennedy and
Congressman Rodino.
The proposals that I am sending to
Congress today will make the Federal
Government a more effective and com-
petent partner in the fight against crime.
1241
