Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
people to vote next Tuesday. Secondly,
I'd like to ask you to vote for the Demo-
cratic candidates, and particularly those
who are running a tough race against very
high financial odds.
There's no doubt in my mind that
Bob Straub's opponent will have two and
a half times as many dollars to spend on
his campaign as does your Governor. I
want you particularly to help him to be
elected, because Bob Straub is a man who
deserves support, particularly from
young people, who believe in the idealism
of American life and the strength of our
country and a good quality of existence,
with good jobs, growing industry in the
future in Oregon. That's very important.
But most of all, I want you to make sure
that you feel that you're a part of the
American political existence. When you
vote, your influence is felt. And I want
to make sure that young people like
your-
selves, who are idealistic, who are not
afraid of change, who believe in openness
of government, who believe in principles
that haven't changed for the last 200
years, who believe in courage in the face
of difficulty, who don't believe problems
are too great to overcome, who don't be-
lieve the questions are too difficult to
answer you are the ones on whom the
future of the United States depends.
We have got the greatest nation on
Earth now. With your help and your par-
ticipation, your support and your confi-
dence, we're going to have an even greater
nation in the years ahead, when you're the
leaders of our country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in
the Amphitheater at Mt. Hood Community
College. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Democratic Senatorial candidate Vern
Cook and Jim Klonoski, State Democratic
Party chairman.
Sacramento, California
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 3, 1978
Are the Democrats going to win next
Tuesday? [Applause] Are you going to
help? [Applause] Right on.
Senator Cranston, Governor Jerry Brown,
Lieutenant Governor Merv Dymally, the
great congressional delegation, Speak-
er Leo McCarthy, my friends in Sacra-
mento, California, and all those who ob-
serve this tremendous demonstration of
what it means to have a democratic society
where each human being-their influ-
ence, their voice, their vote-can make a
difference in the future of our Nation:
I would like to say first of all how proud
I am to be in Sacramento, where for 26
years you have been blessed with one of
the greatest Members of Congress who
ever served-my friend, John Moss. It's
a sad day for us to see him step down.
Also, I hate very much to surrender to
Sacramento one of the greatest Congress-
women I've ever known, a strong, dy-
namic, forceful person, who will be your
next attorney general—Yvonne Burke.
California needs an attorney general
who's tough, competent, concerned about
crime control, who will work with the
United States Attorney General to control
crime in your State. It'll be a great pleas-
ure to have her as a partner with us, con-
trolling crime and protecting the lives of
people here.
I want to say, too, that I come here to
add my own voice of admiration and sup-
port and confidence in one of our Na-
tion's greatest Governors; one who's
brought a breath of fresh air to the
political scene of the United States; a
man who's been able, through his leader-
ship, to reinspire California; who inher-
ited some difficult problems, but who's
1946
