Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The House bill is within the guidelines
that I established for the cost to the Treas-
ury. I think it would not be excessively in-
flationary. The Senate is still deliberating
on the tax bill so far as I know, unless
they've just recently finished it, and what
they are considering would not be satis-
factory in its present form. If the House
and Senate conferees, the rest of this week,
can get together and take the best ele-
ments of both the House bill on the one
hand and the Senate bill on the other and
combine them, then we can have an ac-
ceptable tax bill to present to me and
which I will sign.
The bill must be simple, fair, equitable,
progressive in nature, that is, putting the
tax burden where people can most afford
it and a substantial reduction in tax
burden on our people. If it meets those re-
quirements, then I will sign it. But at the
present time, the issue is still in doubt.
Q. Would you hesitate to veto it if it
doesn't meet those criteria?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I would not hesi-
tate to veto it if it does not meet those
criteria.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS;
ISRAELI OCCUPIED LANDS
Q. Mr. President, are the separate peace
talks that open on Thursday between Is-
rael and Egypt linked in any way to nego-
tiations on other Arab lands under Israeli
occupation? And have you ever answered
King Hussein's questions concerning the
clarification on the sovereignty issues?
THE PRESIDENT. The two discussions on
the Sinai, which relates to Egypt and Is-
rael only, on the one hand, and the West
Bank, Gaza Strip discussions on the other
are not legally interconnected. But I think
throughout the Camp David talks and in
the minds of myself, Prime Minister
Begin, and President Sadat, they are inter-
related. We have been trying to induce the
Jordanians, and to some lesser degree, so
far, the Palestinians who live on the West
Bank, Gaza Strip area to participate in the
talks.
We hope that they will both participate,
along with the Egyptians and the Israelis.
There's no doubt in my mind that while
the negotiating teams are in Washington,
we will discuss both the Sinai questions
leading to an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty
and also the questions concerning the
West Bank and Gaza Strip.
I have not yet responded to the ques-
tions that King Hussein sent to me. I saw
him on one of the television programs
reading the questions. They're in the proc-
ess of being assessed by the State Depart-
ment, and I presume when they get to
me-
Q. They were given to you privately,
were they not?
THE PRESIDENT. No, they were not. I've
not yet received them personally. But I do
know basically what's in them. It's import-
ant that this be done expeditiously, and I
will not delay it, but it'll be several days.
ARKADY SHEVCHENKO
Q. Mr. President, what is your view
of the Shevchenko defection case, in
which a high-level Russian defector had
his whereabouts revealed by a paid
woman companion who says that the
funds for her companionship came from
the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. If the figures the
woman quoted were accurate, which
they aren't, it would be highly inflation-
ary-[laughter]-contrary to my policy
there.
But Mr. Shevchenko, I understand,
had large sums of money paid to him by
the United Nations when he terminated
1746
