Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
THE PRESIDENT.
-and then see our
children, our grandchildren, future gen-
erations look back and say these little tiny
technicalities, phrases, phrasing of ideas,
legalisms, which at that time seemed to
be paramount in the eyes of the Egyptian
and the Israeli agreements, have abso-
lutely no historical significance. And that's
basically what the problems are.
MR. MOYERS. Are you saying that the
impasse as of today is because of techni-
calities and not major principles?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, compared to the
principles that have already been resolved
and the overall scope of things, the dis-
agreements now, relatively, are insignifi-
cant.
MR. MOYERS. Egypt wants to tie the
present negotiations, I understand, to
some future resolution of the Gaza Strip
and the West Bank. Israel is resisting
that. Who's being more stubborn?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't want
to start saying who's being more stubborn.
I think there's adequate stubbornness to
be allotted to both sides.
MR. MOYERS. You mentioned grand-
children, and I heard you say after Camp
David that at one critical moment that
was resolved because of somebody think-
ing about grandchildren. Would you
tell
me about that?
THE PRESIDENT. It might be a mistake
to attach too much importance to it, but
during the last few hours of negotiations
at Camp David, when it looked like
every-
thing was going to break down then,
Prime Minister Begin sent me over some
photographs of me and him and President
Sadat and wanted me to autograph them.
And the issue at tha: time was Jerusalem,
which was an almost insurmountable ob-
stacle that we later resolved by not includ-
ing it at all in the framework. And in-
stead of just putting my signature on it,
which President Sadat had done, I sent
my secretary, Susan Clough, over and got
the names from one of his aides of all his
grandchildren.
So, I personally autographed it to his
granddaughters and grandsons and signed
my name, and I carried it over to him in
one of the most tense moments and I
handed it to him. And he started to talk
to me about the breakdown of the nego-
tiations and he looked down and saw that
I had written all of his grandchildren's
names on the individual pictures and
signed them, and he started telling me
about his favorite grandchild and the
characteristics of different ones. And he
and I had quite an emotional discussion
about the benefits to my two grandchil-
dren and to his if we could reach peace.
And I think it broke the tension that ex-
isted there, that could have been an ob-
stacle to any sort of resolution at that
time.
MR. MOYERS. What does that say to
you about the nature of these problems
and their resolution?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, when
you put the problems in the focus of how
they affect people, little children, fam-
ilies, the loss of life, the agreements and
the need for agreement becomes para-
mount. When you put the focus in the
hands of international lawyers and get it
down to technicalities-is a certain event
going to take place in 9 months or 82
months or 10 months; is this going to hap-
pen before that; is this demarcation line
going to go around this hill or through the
hill, on the other side of the hill; can the
observation towers be 150 feet high, 200
feet high, 125 feet high—the human di-
mension of it becomes obviously para-
mount. But when the negotiators sit
around a table and start talking, the hu-
man dimension tends to fade away, and
you get bogged down in the legalisms and
the language and the exact time schedule,
when from a historic perspective they
have no significance.
2021
