Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 29
cause of a deterioration in their interrela-
tionship, it would be a severe blow to
them, to that region, and indeed to the
entire world.
I think we have a good prospect this
year to have a successful conclusion of the
energy effort. I'm not predicting success
yet. But we have four of the five elements
that would result in about 2.3 million bar-
rels-a-day saving, already approved by
the conference committees, as you know.
And now these five major energy pack-
ages will go to the House and Senate for
a vote.
One's already been voted on by the
Senate. The most difficult of those will be
natural gas deregulation and pricing. And
that would still leave the mechanism by
which domestic oil prices could be raised
to the world market price without hurt-
ing consumers, and our proposal is the
crude oil equalization tax. That one is still
in doubt.
I had supper with Senator Long this
week, and we discussed this at length. He
feels that once the natural gas bill is out
of the way, that it will take just a few days
of concentrated work by the conference
committee there to come to a conclusion
on the crude oil equalization tax. Nobody
knows what it would be, and I'm not pre-
dicting that we'll have complete success.
But those are some of the things just
today that have been problems of mine,
and I would be glad now to answer any
questions that you might have.
QUESTIONS
COAL PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, there's been little
evidence in the past 2 years that there's
any movement toward your goal of min-
ing a billion tons a year of coal in this
country by 1985. Coal production is now
what it was when you came into office,
and yet, obviously, we need more coal.
Now we are receiving reports in the
coal fields that the Coal Commission that
you created 4 months ago is floundering,
still not completed staff, still the Commis-
sion is incomplete. What is the status of
the Commission and of your efforts in the
coal industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will reach
the goal that we established. As you know,
we've had a severe setback with the ex-
tended coal strike and the disputes within
the industry. I don't believe there's been
an adequate analysis in the news media,
or among the American people, which
have to derive their opinion from you all,
of what the agreement achieved. My
guess is that the constant disruptions, the
unauthorized wildcat strikes, the drop-
ping productivity, will be substantially
enhanced by the agreement that was
reached.
You are right; only yesterday I ap-
proved the last two members of the Com-
mission. And I think now the matter will
be expedited substantially, and we will
have at the conclusion of their delibera-
tions under Jay Rockefeller, the Governor
of West Virginia, as Chairman, a report
back to me in a limited period of time.
But it's been a very difficult matter in the
aftermath of that strike, with hard feel-
ings on both sides and some distrust on
both sides, to bring together management
and the coal miners and their representa-
tives, to agree on a commission that they
would mutually trust.
But I think now we have a good Com-
mission put together, and my prediction
is that we will reach that goal. Prior to
the time of the strike, even with the con-
stant disruption on a local basis of coal
production, there was a substantial in-
*The President meant to say "reduced.”
[Printed in the transcript.]
1349
