July 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
thing in our country, because, as is quite
often not understood in some Europe na-
tions, and perhaps even Japan, we are not
only a very heavy consumer of oil and
natural gas, but we are also one of the
world's greatest producers of oil and nat-
ural gas.
And to change from a deep concern
about production, which has been our
Government policy in the past, to a new
concern about conservation and a shift
toward other more plentiful supplies of
energy is not easy for a country. But we
are making good progress; my prediction
is that the Congress will act successfully
on our energy plan before they adjourn
this year.
have a negative trade balance. Germany
and Japan have very high, positive trade
balances. But I think that this circum-
stance will improve. We are all concerned
about inflation. We are all concerned
about unemployment. We recognize that
what's good for our country almost in-
evitably is good for all of our trade part-
ners. The last thing I'd want to say is we
hope to bring about a successful conclu-
sion of the multilateral trade negotia-
tions, which have not been successful so
far. We want to reduce tariffs and other
impediments to free trade.
I think we are the most enthusiastic
nation among those who will be at the
Bonn summit in that respect. And we
MR. GRUBER. So, what options will you hope that the European nations and
bring to Bonn?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that which I've
just described concerning energy, to con-
tinue to reduce the level of oil imports,
a presentation to the other countries of
items with which they may not be famil-
iar, that is, that our adverse trade bal-
ance has been primarily attributable this
year not to oil imports, but to the impor-
tation of manufactured goods, a lot of
them from Germany, a lot of them from
Japan.
We have maintained and reached our
goal of sustained economic growth in our
country. Other nations, Japan, and Ger-
many have not been so successful. In
1977, our economic growth rate was much
higher than the average of our other trad-
ing partners who will be at the summit.
We were much more able to purchase
your goods than you were to purchase
our goods. I think now there's a more
moderate level of growth in our own Na-
tion and perhaps an increasing rate of
growth in
your country and that of Japan.
Perhaps in the future you'll be able to buy
our goods better than you did in 1977.
The underlying economic problem is
the very high adverse trade balance. We
Japan will respond as enthusiastically as
are we. We need more ability to market
our own goods among our trading
partners.
So, those are the three basic items:
energy, trade relationships, improved in-
flation and unemployment circumstances.
U.S.-GERMAN RELATIONS
MR. MERSEBURGER. There has been
some confusing signals concerning Ger-
man-American relations the last year-
neutron bomb, disagreement on econom-
ics, nonproliferation policies. Is it per-
haps, Mr. President, that the Germans
expect a stronger leadership and you pre-
fer to deal between equal partners? You
expect them to be more responsible, to
do more?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that the Ger-
man Government or people look to us to
dominate or to impose our will on them
or anyone else. We recognize the econom-
ic and military, political strength of our
country. It's not only a privilege, it's
also a heavy responsibility.
We recognize clearly that what happens
in our own Nation affects directly the
lives of many people around the world.
1262
