Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
White, 40, had been Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Manpower, Reserve Affairs
and Logistics. Prior to joining the De-
fense Department in 1977, he was with
the Rand Corporation.
Contract Disputes Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 11002 Into Law.
November 1, 1978
I am pleased today to sign H.R. 11002,
the Contract Disputes Act of 1978. This
is landmark legislation in at least two
respects.
First, it provides for the first time a uni-
form statutory base for the resolution of
claims and disputes arising in connection
with Federal contracts. The previous
process was a mass of confusing and some-
times conflicting agency regulations, judi-
cial decisions, decisions of agency boards
of contract appeals, and statutes. This act
will provide a much more logical and
flexible means of resolving contract dis-
putes. It should lead to savings for Fed-
eral agencies and their contractors.
Second, apart from the creation of the
Office of Federal Procurement Policy in
1974, it represents the first enactment in-
to law of major recommendations of the
Commission on Government Procure-
ment.
Special Pay for Sea Duty
Executive Order 12094. November 1, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent and as Commander in Chief of the
Armed Forces of the United States of
America by sections 305, 305a and 403 of
title 37 of the United States Code and in
order to implement increased rates of
special pay for enlisted personnel serving
on sea duty, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
1-101. Executive Order No. 11157, as
amended, is further amended by revising
Part II thereof to read as follows:
"PART II-SPECIAL PAY FOR SEA DUTY
AND DUTY AT CERTAIN PLACES
"Sec. 201. Provided they have over
three cumulative years of sea duty, en-
listed members of a uniformed service who
are in pay grade E-4 or above and who
are entitled to receive basic pay shall be
entitled to receive, additionally, career sea
pay while on sea duty. The period of sea
duty shall include the date of reporting
and the date of detachment as stated in
orders. Career sea pay shall be at the rates
prescribed in section 305a of title 37,
United States Code.
"Sec. 202. (a) For the purpose of en-
titlement to career sea pay, the term "sea
duty" shall mean duty performed by en-
listed members:
"(1) while permanently assigned for
I particularly would like to recognize duty to a vessel, ship-based staff, or ship-
the hard and effective work of Senator
Lawton Chiles and Congressman Herb
Harris in getting this legislation enacted.
Senator Chiles was also a member of the
Commission on Government Procure-
ment and was, therefore, instrumental in
the creation of the system reflected in this
act.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11002 is Public Law
95-563, approved November 1.
based aviation unit pursuant to orders is-
sued by competent authority and serving
in a ship whose primary mission is accom-
plished underway, including-
"i. periods not to exceed the first 30 con-
secutive days of temporary additional duty
ashore; and
"ii. periods not to exceed the first 90
days during which messing or berthing fa-
cilities, or both, are temporarily out of
1922
