Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
times as many as 75 or 80. I always look
them over, assess the reasons for the At-
torney General's recommendations, and,
almost without exception, comply with
his recommendation. But I think to treat
her as a special case because she is wealthy
and her case has been highly publicized
would be a mistake. She'll be treated in a
routine fashion when the time comes.
MS. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, let me ask
you, as a mother, how you feel. Have you
given the President any advice in this?
Is it something you've discussed.
MRS. CARTER. I'm aware of it, and we,
I think, have mentioned it a time or two.
But we have not discussed it, no.
Ms. WALTERS. Maybe tonight?
MRS. CARTER. Not tonight. [Laughter]
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
MS. WALTERS. Do you plan any new
faces in your Cabinet or in the first string
of your administration, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope not. I would
like to finish my 4-year term and have the
same Cabinet that I started with. They are
all good.
MS. WALTERS. And the same people in
the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any plans
to change the people in the White House.
Ms. WALTERS. Now that Hamilton
Jordan's wearing a suit and tie?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I might want to im-
prove some of them, but not move them.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Ms. WALTERS. Mr. President, you
said
that, when you campaigned, that you
would never tell a lie. Well, have you ever
told a lie since then, even a tiny white lie,
even for national security?
THE PRESIDENT. Not that I can recall.
I think one of the biggest responsibili-
ties that I have is to build up confidence
in the Government and the Presidency
itself. If I should ever tell a lie, even
though it would be a small and perhaps
inconsequential one to enhance our na-
tional security at the particular moment,
and later be caught as a liar, it would cast
doubt on all the truthful things that I
said. And I have never been tempted, in
this 2 years, to lie to the American people
or to any individual news reporter about
a matter that concerned our national se-
curity or a matter that concerned any
public event.
Ms. WALTERS. Mrs. Carter, I remem-
ber we talked 2 years ago about some mis-
conceptions about both you and the
President. What, if any, misconceptions
do you think that the public or the press
has now?
MRS. CARTER. I don't know, Barbara. I
think the press has been very fair to me,
those who are with me and see me on a
daily basis, in presenting what I'm trying
to do to the public.
MS. WALTERS. What about the Presi-
dent? Is he coming off okay?
MRS. CARTER. I think so. I think in the
beginning, the press didn't understand
him, didn't know what he was trying to
do. But I think that we're changing that.
I think with the successes that he had in
Congress and the things that he has tried
to do that have actually come to fruition,
people are seeing, the press is projecting
what he actually is doing.
Ms. WALTERS. Do you think there are
any misconceptions about you, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the miscon-
ceptions are decreasing in number. One of
the frustrations and challenges and maybe
difficulties of being President or a mem-
ber of the First Family is to have good
communication with the American people
in both directions, both to learn what the
American people think, what they want,
and what they expect of us, and also to
2258
