Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, I don't think the President has too
much of an impact on an individual race.
The major purpose of my last swing was
to encourage American people to get out
to vote. The vote turnout was higher than
we anticipated. It was not nearly high
enough. I think three voters out of eight
went to the polls. Five voters out of eight
did not. But that was the primary purpose
of
my last swing, to help Democrats, yes,
but to get out a large vote. I doubt that
my presence had much of an impact on
the outcome of those who won.
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, Steve Saunders from
KBCM Radio. You've already mentioned
the countercyclical measure and the set-
aside program. But aren't you playing
with the profits of agriculture, maybe one
of the only facets of our economy by it-
self that can help with the inflation prob-
lem, the devaluation of the dollar prob-
lem, and the balance-of-trade deficit, all
in one, by not signing the countercyclical
bill, by waiting until this late for that set-
aside program, when most farmers
wanted it earlier, and by allowing about
50 percent of the world's reserves of grain
stocks to build up in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter] We
inherited a situation in the agricultural
communities that was very depressing
and of great concern to me. The farmers
were actually faced with another depres-
sion. The Congress passed, with biparti-
san support last year, a comprehensive
agriculture bill. It went into effect the
first day of October 1977. Since then,
farm income has increased $7 billion this
year compared to last year, a 25-percent
increase in farm income.
In spite of very depressed prices in
1977, the exports hit an alltime record.
This year, we expect to export over $27
billion, which is substantially above the
alltime record set last year. We'll con-
tinue this balanced approach.
The farmers will have to do some sac-
rificing along with all other Americans.
We can't concentrate all of our govern-
ment's effort and ignore inflationary pres-
sures, erect trade barriers just to protect
farmers. I'm a farmer myself, and I never
have met a farmer who, in a showdown,
wanted to do something deleterious or
harmful to his own country
just for
selfish advantage.
I think we've been very fair with farm-
ers; I continue to be fair with the farm-
ers; and of course my own stand is cor-
roborated by the action taken by the Con-
gress. And my decisions will be made very
shortly, before the statutory limit, after
the information on production that was
received today, with which I'm not yet fa-
miliar. And I'm not waiting until the last
minute.
The reporter with the large diamond
ring on her finger.2 [Laughter]
NATIONAL ENERGY BILLS
Q. Mr. President, you said when the
energy bill finally passed that you were
not pleased with all aspects of it and
that you would work year after year to
try to improve it. What specifically will
you propose in January to change the
energy bill that you signed today?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. As
was pointed out this morning in the sign-
ing ceremony, this is one of the most diffi-
cult legislative tasks that the Congress has
ever undertaken, possibly, in the history of
our country. It's complicated; it's conten-
tious; it's very difficult to understand. It
has international implications, and politi-
cally I don't think anyone could win from
it. It was not something that's politically
attractive.
Ann Compton of ABC News had recently
announced her engagement to be married.
1992
