Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
offset the increases in social security
taxes.
Why did you sign the bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there were many
features about the tax bill which were not
my original preference. The reforms in-
cluded in the bill—and they're substan-
tial-did not measure up to what I asked
the Congress to do. The final reduction
in capital gains taxes was substantially be-
low that approved by either the House or
Senate. It was as low as the conference
committee could go.
I think that we do need tax reduction,
and the bill involves about $21 billion in
tax reductions and a part of it, by the
way, is the continuation of the present tax
reductions, which would have increased
$13 billion, roughly, had I not signed the
bill at all.
We did the best we could in the last few
days as a matter of fact, the last few
hours of the congressional session to
make the bill more acceptable to me. In
balance, it was acceptable. It was neces-
sary. And I think that we do benefit
greatly from the fact that the people of
our country will not be saddled with $20
to $30 billion in increased taxes at the
first of next year, had I not signed the bill.
I've not given up on my hope that we
can have additional reforms in the future.
And I think the capital gains reductions
were reasonable, compared to what the
House and Senate had both considered.
SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS
Q. In line with that, Mr. President, last
week in Kansas City, Senator Eagleton
expressed concern over the social security
tax increase, the bill that was passed. He
termed it as a bad bill and one that
needed to be reviewed. Do you agree with
the review and possibly a reduction in the
social security tax increase?
THE PRESIDENT. The original proposal
that I made to the Congress last year, in
1977, was that the social security be han-
it was
dled slightly different from the way
and that we have a reduction, as you
know, in social security payments. The
Congress and I approved, finally—de-
cided that the social security system was in
such imminent danger of bankruptcy that
it had to be saved; and it was saved by
increase in rates.
I have no present plans to advocate a
substantial change in the present legisla-
tion. If so, if I did have a reduction in
social security payments, that reduction
would have to be made up by allocations
of funds from the general Treasury. I
know for a fact that Senator Long, head
of the Finance Committee in the Senate,
is strongly opposed to this procedure. And
I think even if I desired it, it would be
highly unlikely that we could achieve it.
It's one of the options that we will con-
sider, but I certainly have no present
plans to do so.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, considering George
Meany's reaction to your anti-inflation
proposals, and in view of the fact that
negotiations are coming up in a number
of industries, major industries, during the
next few months, what do you intend to
do to keep the unions involved to adhere
to your 7-percent wage cap?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Meany did
not reject the voluntary wage and price
standards that I proposed. He expressed
a preference that the Congress be called
back into session to impose an extensive,
mandatory Government wage and price
standard throughout the entire free en-
terprise system of our country. I do not
have any intention of doing this. And if I
attempted it, I have no feeling at all that
the Congress would approve.
1989
