Aug. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
portant that you get out and work hard
and really sell these policies, because
they're good for the customer, they're
good for our company, they're good for
you." He said, "If I feel like it, I will." At
the end of the week, he hadn't sold any
policies. So, his boss said, "We don't have
any place for you around here."
For about 3 or 4 weeks he wandered
around looking for a job, and he couldn't
find one. And finally, he found a buddy
in a bar, and he said, "Why don't we go
and rob the local bank?" And so, they
made up very careful plans to violate the
law and to give them some spending
money at the same time. And his buddy
said, "Look, when we come out of the
front door of that bank, you've got to run
like mad, and don't slow down." And the
young fellow said, "Well, if I feel like it,
I will." [Laughter]
Well, he came out of that bank with a
sackful of money, he ran about a block,
kind of lackadaisical. And a policeman
caught him by his collar, and he was tried
and put in a penitentiary. The next morn-
ing the warden called him down there and
said, "Well, you're a new prisoner here,
and here's a cotton sack. We all work
around this prison." He said, "I want you
to go out in that field, and when you come
in tonight, I want you to have 150 pounds
of cotton in that sack." The fellow looked
at the warden and said, "Well, if I feel like
it, I will."
So, he came in that night; he had 25
pounds of cotton in his sack. And the war-
den called his biggest, strongest guard over
and said, "Take this fellow in the back
room and work him over." The next
morning the new prisoner kind of hobbled
up in front of the warden-two black eyes,
knots on his head, couldn't see very well-
and the warden said, "Well, here's your
cotton sack. I want you to go out in that
field; when you come in tonight, I want
you to have 150 pounds of cotton." The
fellow said, "Boss, if it's in the field, I'll get
it." [Laughter]
This is the kind of determination that
we all need to address important issues.
But sometimes it takes a little persuasion,
a little crisis to bring to us the importance
of our future actions.
I feel at home with you today. Both
your State and mine have produced
Presidents who were raised on the farm.
We Presidents, from Missouri and Geor-
gia, have another similarity, too. We both
have kept the same sign in the Oval Of-
fice, the famous sign that reads, "The
buck stops here." It's a constant reminder
of the great opportunities and the diffi-
cult responsibilities of the President of the
United States.
Although President Truman followed a
career that took him away from farming,
his attachment remained strong to the
land and to the people who work it. And
so has mine.
When I took office a little more than
a year and a half ago, the farm economy
was in bad shape and apparently was
headed for a serious depression. It was
one of the greatest problems that we had
to face. The American farmer has a right
to expect two things that you were not
getting then: a stable and secure income
and access to adequate credit at reason-
able interest rates. And all Americans, on
and off the farm, have a right to expect
one big thing that nobody is getting today:
a dollar that will still be worth as much
tomorrow as it is now.
Not long ago, some of your neighbors,
maybe even some of you here today, came
to visit us in Washington, on tractors and
with goats. Some of you may even have
visited Bob Bergland's office, although I
understand he was out at the time. The
rumor is that he went out through the
window. [Laughter] But we could under-
stand clearly the message that was brought
and the message that was on the hearts
1420
