Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
I
The proposal that I made originally
with substantial taxes imposed on oil, the
taxes to be refunded to the American peo-
ple immediately, would have saved addi-
tional oil consumption. The bills that I
signed this morning will result in savings
of about 22 million barrels of oil per day
by 1985. The original proposals would
have saved an estimated 42 million bar-
rels per day. So, we've got about 60 or 65
percent of what we asked for. But we do
now have a comprehensive energy policy
for the first time.
As we go into the implementation of
this legislation, we'll obviously have some
accomplishments, which means that reg-
ulation can be reduced. We'll obviously
find some defects, I'm sure, in this com-
plicated legislation, that I'll try to correct.
But I've not given up on my original pro-
posal that there should be a constraint on
the excessive consumption of oil and
therefore the excessive importation of oil.
How we'll go about it, I don't yet know.
THE PRESIDENT'S RELIGION
Q. Mr. President, you're in the Bible
Belt of the United States. And I was won-
dering if it's made a difference to you
that you're a born-again Christian, in
the last 2 years in office?
THE PRESIDENT. I think my religious
beliefs are well known. And in my own
opinion, a deep religious faith is a very
sound basis on which to make difficult de-
cisions and to have some assurance that
you are doing the proper things. But I've
been very careful not to interrelate my
Christian beliefs with my responsibilities
as President. But it is a great personal
gratification for me to have that religious
faith.
NICARAGUA
Q. Mr. President, you're being con-
fronted with a growing number of pleas
to help bring about a mediated peace in
the Latin American country of Nica-
ragua. Is the U.S. going to act to
prevent further bloodshed and repres-
sion, or do you feel that your hands are
tied because you don't want to interfere
in the internal affairs of another country?
What can you do?
THE PRESIDENT. We are participating
actively and daily in the negotiations to
bring about a settlement in Nicaragua. I
get daily reports from Mr. Bowdler. He
was one of the three major negotiators
there. We're working in harmony with
two other Latin American countries in
this effort.
We are trying to bring about a resolu-
tion of the Nicaraguan question. And I
think you know in the last few weeks since
these negotiations began, the bloodshed
has certainly been drastically reduced. It's
one of the most difficult tasks that we've
undertaken.
And we proposed others to be the ne-
gotiators at first. We were unable to find
an acceptable group. With our absence,
both sides I guess all sides, there are
many more than two-wanted the United
States to be negotiators. So, we are nego-
tiating actively now to reach an agree-
ment in Nicaragua to control bloodshed,
to minimize disputes, and to set up a gov-
ernment there that will have the full sup-
port of the Nicaraguan people.
RIGHT-TO-WORK LAWS
Q. Mr. President, Bill Stilley of Ray-
town and William Jewell College Radio
Station, KWPB. Missouri voters defeated
the right-to-work amendment Tuesday.
do you see will this have on the right-to-
And I was wanting to know what effect
work movement in efforts to repeal sec-
tion 14(b) of Taft-Hartley?
THE PRESIDENT. I think obviously the
outcome of the vote in Missouri will have
a great effect on attempts that might have
been made in other States to repeal right-
1993
