Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 1
technology, taking intermediate steps that
will keep open possibilities for the future.
During the period of the Saturn-Apollo
missions, we were pilgrims in space, rang-
ing far from home in search of knowledge.
Now we will become shepherds tending
our technological flocks, but like the shep-
herds of old, we will keep our eyes fixed on
the heavens.
We are committed to the practical use
of space. But we are equally committed
to the scientific exploration of the solar
system and the universe.
In the 1980's, the 1990's, we will con-
tinue the direct reconnaissance of the so-
lar system. Through the eyes of our re-
mote cameras, we will see Mars and Ve-
nus, Jupiter and its moons, Saturn with its
moons and rings, and comets and aster-
oids. The study of other planets, their cli-
mate, geology, geophysics, perhaps their
biology, will increase our understanding
of our own planet. We will seek to learn
more about the Sun.
Many missions will aim at this goal in
the years to come. In one of them, an in-
strumented probe will journey far above
the plane of the solar system to look down
at the never-before-seen polar regions of
the Sun.
And finally, we will look out from
Earth orbit to the very end of the uni-
verse, notably by means of the space tele-
scope. In its orbit 300 miles above the
Earth's surface, the space telescope will at
last let us see the universe without inter-
ference from the Earth's obscuring atmos-
phere.
It will be the centerpiece of astronomy
for the decade beginning in the mid-eight-
ies. Its contributions may dwarf all but the
most fundamental discoveries of the past,
leading to a quantum growth in our un-
derstanding of the basic nature of time,
matter, and energy.
In the coming generation, the scope
and the range of our space activities will
reflect the range of our requirements and
interests as a vigorous, responsible, and
free society. Those activities will be meas-
ured against all the needs of our country.
We will be encouraging other countries to
participate both in the work and in its
benefits. But we will not give up the lead-
ership of the United States in space.
And finally, let me say, in the last analy-
sis the challenge of space takes us very
close to the heart of things. It brings us
face to face with the mysteries of creation,
of matter, of energy, of life itself. The men
we honor today met that challenge, and
they were equal to it. Our Nation met
that challenge and was equal to it. And in
the final two decades of the twentieth
century, America will reach out once
more to the beauty and to the mystery of
space, and once again America, you and
I, will be equal to that great task.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:14 p.m. at the
Vehicle Assembly Building of the Shuttle Land-
ing Facility, John F. Kennedy Space Center.
Following his remarks, the President pre-
sented the awards to Neil A. Armstrong, Col.
Frank Borman (USAF, Ret.), Capt. Charles
Conrad, Jr. (USN, Ret.), Senator John H.
Glenn, Jr. (Col., USMC, Ret.), and Rear Adm.
Alan Shepard (USN, Ret.). He also presented
a posthumous award to Betty Grissom on behalf
of her husband, Lt. Col. Virgil I. Grissom
(USAF).
Earlier in the day, the President toured
various facilities at the Center and received
briefings from NASA officials.
Orlando, Florida
White House Statement on the President's
Meeting With United Nations Secretary
General Kurt Waldheim. October 1, 1978
President Carter and Secretary General
Waldheim discussed the crisis in Lebanon,
and both expressed their deep concern
1687
