Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, in balance, I'm pleased with the
last 11 months and don't underestimate
the difficulties still facing us.
Q. One followup.
THE PRESIDENT. One followup.
Q. Wouldn't you say that your inabil-
ity to move faster towards your social
goals, those social goals that you spelled
out during the campaign and since,
wouldn't you call that a distinct minus?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I wouldn't. I
think we've made excellent progress in
social goals. I've just commented on the
fact that we've had large numbers of new
Americans at work. We've had a net in-
crease of about 7 million in the number
of jobs held by Americans. We've reduced
the unemployment rate a full 2 percent.
We've had a 25-percent increase in the
net income of farmers. We've increased
exports there. We've had a stabilization of
the American dollar, which was surpris-
ingly effective. We also, of course, recog-
nize a continuing problem that's been of
greater importance lately for inflation.
So, I think, on balance, the perfor-
mance has been positive; although we
still have very great problems ahead of us.
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Q. Mr. President, the Democratic
Party just spent what seems to some peo-
ple an enormous amount of money to
hold a mini-convention. And I just won-
der, some people are already saying per-
haps the money would have been better
spent in congressional campaigns or Sen-
atorial campaigns. Do you think that was
worth the money, and how do you feel
about midterm conventions in general?
THE PRESIDENT. For the first time in, I
think, more than 10 years, the Democratic
National Committee this year did make
substantial contributions to the cam-
paigns of congressional candidates. This
was a step in the right direction.
This midterm conference was man-
dated by the 1976 convention. There was
no way I could circumvent that mandate.
I personally did not favor the midterm
conference when it was decided upon in
1976. I was pleasantly surprised. I think,
in balance, the conference was worth the
money.
My understanding is that additional
funds have been raised in Memphis and
in other places to adequately pay for the
cost of the convention.
I believe it is very important for me, as
a President, and also as head of the Dem-
ocratic Party, to have my success and
failures assessed objectively and openly
by Democrats representing the grassroots
of our party around the Nation. I think
that was done in a very forthcoming way.
I've observed the deliberations, partici-
pated in them with a great deal of inter-
est, and I think in general the policies of
my administration were endorsed.
The one single issue concerning budget
matters, which was highly disputed, and
on which the more liberal members of the
party concentrated their efforts, showed
that my policies were endorsed by, I
think, more than 60 percent. So, I'm very
pleased with it. And I don't think there
was anyone who went to the conference
who couldn't say in its closing hours that
they had an adequate opportunity to ex-
press their views, either supportive of me
or contrary to what I have done.
So, I feel very pleased about it.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, to what extent do
you feel bound or influenced by the reso-
lution passed by the midterm conference
on calling for enactment of national
health insurance in the next Congress?
2222
