Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
from the restraints on an equitable and
fair basis, and that includes domestic and
foreign affairs. It includes domestic pro-
grams, defense, other issues that have to
come before me. I'm going to be incisive,
persistent, dedicated, and, I hope, confi-
dent in the preparation of the 1980
budget.
All of you have been through budget
cycles yourselves. You know what it is to
face unlimited demands and limited re-
sources.
As I pointed out earlier, when I ran
for President, the budget deficit was more
than $66 billion. Since then we've cut
taxes about $30 billion on an annual basis.
And we've greatly expanded programs
and services, many with your guidance
and support. On top of that, we've also
cut down the budget deficit substantially.
And I have no doubt that I will meet the
goal of having a budget deficit much less
than half what it was when I ran for
President-$30 billion or less. We still
have some uncertainties remaining. As
you well know, with the economic situa-
tion as it is, it's almost impossible to pre-
dict the rate of revenues to be received
next year.
We've been remarkably successful in
cutting down the unemployment rate. I
think we will have a sustained, moderate
growth throughout 1979. I do not antici-
pate a recession nor a depression, of
course. I have no economic advisers who
work with me who believe that there will
be a recession in 1979. We will have suc-
cess with the controlling of inflation to the
extent that the American people's con-
sciousness is aroused about the need for
restraint. And if there is a broad base of
support for controlling inflation, the hard-
ship or suffering or sacrifice to be required
from any particular group or person will
be greatly minimized.
As you know, in the top levels of em-
ployment in our Government-those who
are appointed by me, the executive level
in the Government-there will be zero
increases in salaries for them this year.
They will have to take, in effect, a salary
cut equivalent to the inflation rate for
1978 and also for this coming year. Others
have a moderate income increase of about
52 percent.
I've had to place a hiring freeze in the
Federal Government at this point. For
every two vacancies which occur, we only
permit one of those vacancies to be filled.
And as I've pointed out earlier, I've
had to veto several very popular programs
with different, very fine, beneficent, and
politically influential special
special interest
groups in our country, and that will con-
tinue. I think to the extent that the Con-
gress sees my determination and the fair-
ness of my proposals, the number of bills
passed or the number of proposals made
which I do have to veto in the future will
be less.
I know that you're either bipartisan,
nonpartisan, or divided between Demo-
crats and Republicans. [Laughter] And I
think if there's one lesson to have come
out of the results of the general election
earlier this month, it was that people want
government to be competent, I would say
frugal to some degree, and to eliminate
waste, fraud, and corruption.
As we cut back on unnecessary spend-
ing in the Federal Government, using the
zero-base budgeting technique which I
initiated, it lets us focus the expenditures
which are available much more narrowly
where the needs are greatest. And I think
this, in effect, ensures that our Govern-
ment will be more efficient and more
competent in the future.
The openness of Government is also
very crucial. It's good for consumers of
all kinds to know what their own Govern-
ment is doing. There can be no secrecy
2081
