Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
reduce America's fire losses by itself. The
public and private sector—all individuals,
organizations and governmental enti-
ties-must help. Together we can elimi-
nate this unnecessary life-threatening
destruction.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate October 8-14,
1978, as Fire Prevention Week.
Because fire deaths most often occur in
homes, I call upon American families and
other property owners to install smoke de-
tectors, to practice exit drills, and to be
especially vigilant in guarding against
fires caused by cooking and fires caused by
smoking materials, which cause the great-
est number of fires and greatest propor-
tion of losses in homes.
I support and encourage the coopera-
tive efforts of private enterprise and gov-
ernment in developing low cost residential
sprinkler systems and I urge commercial
and government property owners to in-
stall sprinklers in both new and older
buildings, especially those buildings in
which large numbers of people gather.
I urge all agencies of Federal, state and
local government involved in the plan-
ning and implementation of programs di-
rected to finding solutions to such national
concerns as energy conservation, environ-
mental protection, and economic well-
being to fully consider the effects of their
programs on the fire safety of the environ-
ment in which Americans live and work.
I encourage the fire service, police,
prosecutors, the insurance industry, and
government to work together to remove
incentives for arson, and to improve arson
detection and prosecution so that we can
begin to eliminate this costly, often life-
threatening crime.
I urge officials in private industry and
in government who are responsible for us-
ing or regulating hazardous materials to
seek and implement measures to signifi-
cantly reduce the possibility of life loss in
the event of manufacturing, transporta-
tion, or storage accidents and to assist the
fire services in preparing for such disasters
should they occur.
Finally, I call upon the members of the
Joint Council of National Fire Service
Organizations, the National Fire Protec-
tion Association, all other organizations
concerned with fire safety, and the Na-
tional Fire Prevention and Control Ad-
ministration to provide the leadership,
planning, and innovation necessary for an
effective national fire prevention and con-
trol effort.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:52 a.m., August 9, 1978]
General Pulaski's Memorial
Day, 1978
Proclamation 4582. August 8, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
One hundred and ninety-nine years ago,
the Polish patriot Casimir Pulaski gave his
life fighting for freedom in the American
Revolution.
General Pulaski, an exile from his na-
tive Poland, arrived in 1777 to join the
Revolutionary Army. He fought coura-
geously at Brandywine and in other bat-
tles, and he formed and commanded the
famous cavalry unit, the Pulaski Legion,
1394
