July 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
TARGETING FUNDS
Under the existing statute, LEAA
funds are distributed to States solely on
the basis of population. There is no re-
quirement that funds be distributed ac-
cording to an area's need to fight crime.
Under the Act, a priority will be placed
on focusing funds to the areas with the
most severe crime problems, in line with
the Administration's general policy of
targeting funds from government pro-
grams to areas of greatest need.
At present, 17 States have about 55
percent of the nation's serious crime and
about 45 percent of the total population.
Under our proposals, those 17 States
would receive additional funds to dis-
tribute to their local areas with the great-
est crime problems.
WASTEFUL USE OF FUNDS
The existing LEAA statute does not
place any meaningful limits on how funds
are to be used, or incentives for efficient
use. In recent years, it has become obvi-
ous that some LEAA funds have been
wasted on useless equipment, hardware,
projects and programs.
To avoid future wasteful use, and to
insure that LEAA funds are spent in the
most productive ways, my proposal con-
tains reasonable limits on the use of
LEAA funds.
Strict limitations will be placed on the
use of funds for equipment, hardware,
administrative expenses, and general sal-
ary expenses. These limitations should
result in additional LEAA funds for pro-
grams which will directly impact on the
fight against crime and which will im-
prove our judicial system.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Under the current LEAA statute, local
crime prevention and control efforts have
frequently been undercut by uncertainty
about funding levels, as well as by dis-
agreements over State and local roles and
responsibilities.
My proposal will eliminate the uncer-
tainty concerning the funding level for
establish the relationship between State
local governments and will more clearly
and local governments. Rather than hav-
ing to file innumerable applications with
their State governments, my proposal will
enable municipalities of over 100,000
population and counties of over 250,000
population for the first time to receive a
fixed allocation of LEAA funds each
year.
In addition, decisions regarding fund-
ing are now made at the State level, of-
ten without adequate local consultation.
Under my proposal, these cities and coun-
ties will be given greater discretion to se-
lect projects and programs particularly
suited to their own crime reduction and
criminal justice needs.
COMMUNITY AND NEIGHBORHOOD
PARTICIPATION
All too often, a wide gulf separates law
enforcement officials from the commu-
nities and people they protect. This has
been particularly true of the LEAA
program.
My proposal recognizes that crime pre-
vention and justice system improvement
are not solely the tasks of government or
justice agencies. Private citizens and
neighborhood and community organiza-
tions will have a vital role to play. The
participation of neighborhood and com-
munity groups in the development and
approval of State and local applications
will be assured. Not only will public
hearings be required before State and
local LEAA funding decisions are made,
but those groups will be fully represented
on the State and local advisory boards
1248
