Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 9
was, of course, of great concern to all of
us.
However, having also served in the sub-
marine service, I'm concerned about the
time at sea, that our crews spend there.
And it's my understanding, according to
the Navy Department—I've received
from information to this effect—that even
though the ship will spend about 1 per-
cent more time at sea, the crews will spend
approximately 35 percent more time at
home. This is not only healthy for the
crews on these Trident submarines, but
it also gives me the impression that it
would make us less dependent on over-
seas bases.
And I'd like to know where we're
going with this program and just how the
overall cost factor has been adjusted.
THE PRESIDENT. The Trident sub-
marine decision was made, as you know,
several years ago. And I've assessed it
since I've been President. I think it was
a good decision. The ultimate way to
measure the cost of a defense system like
the submarine missile program is the total
lifetime of the offensive or defensive
weapon capability, compared to costs, like
per missile. I think the Trident is effec-
tive. It will permit the use of missiles
which have a greater capability, both
range and throw weight, which gives us
a better deterrent factor. And the cost
over the lifetime of the submarine is less
than that of the older submarines out-
fitted with less effective missiles.
Also, as you know, a submarine, even
the old fleet-type submarines, the first
ones that I was on, have a limited life-
time, as do all other capital-type ships;
other capital-type ships;
25 or 30 years is the maximum. So, we
have to plan long ahead of time.
The last thing I'd like to say about the
Trident submarine program is that be-
cause of the innovations in its design,
there were early delays in the delivery of
the first few Trident submarines. But my
understanding now from the Defense De-
partment is that we will stay on schedule
in the future.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a good system.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Thank you so
much. Any other panelists want to elabo-
rate? All right, sir, the next question.
They know who the boss is, I think.
[Laughter]
NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION
Q. Howard Rosen from New Jersey, to
any of the panelists. I was particularly
pleased to observe the progress of inter-
est in the nuclear nonproliferation efforts.
And I wonder, Mr. Carter, if you or any
of the other panelists would comment on
where they stand now, particularly with
respect to India.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to let John
Culver answer that, because I think this
is one area where the Congress really
took the initiative. And I'm very proud
of the achievements already on our non-
proliferation program. And I think John
Culver, who's been in the forefront of
that effort, probably ought to be the one
to answer the question.
GOVERNOR-ELECT RILEY. Senator Cul-
ver.
THE PRESIDENT. I thank you, by the
way, for having a reception for me, when
I was a lonely candidate, in your home.
[Laughter] Thank you very much.
SENATOR CULVER. Well, let me just say
that as someone that has served in the
Congress, now, for 14 years and been con-
cerned with the United States taking a
leadership in the area of arms control
and other initiatives, it's enormously re-
freshing to have the opportunity to serve
with a President who has the degree of
commitment to these goals and objectives
as President Carter has, not only in the
area of increased efforts in bringing about
2199
