Nov. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a great Democratic victory November 7,
next Tuesday, if you work, and I hope
you will work:
Mayor Beaudin met me at the airport,
and as we drove in, he talked about the
changes that have taken place in north-
east Minnesota in the last 3 years. One of
the best things that happened to me was
shortly after the Ohio, California pri-
maries, a young man, compared to me,
came down to Plains and said, “I've just
finished reading your book, Jimmy, called,
'Why Not the Best?', and I've offered to
volunteer my services to be your Vice
President." [Laughter]
That's not exactly the way it happened,
but I wanted to come back to Minnesota
and thank you for Fritz Mondale, the
greatest Vice President I know.
Elections are exciting; elections are pre-
carious, unpredictable; elections are times
when the people of the country which we
all love have an opportunity to be part of
government, to stand on our own feet, to
make our own decisions, to show what
democracy means, to show what freedom
means, what individuality means.
In 1960, our country went to the polls,
and we elected John Kennedy as Presi-
dent. Two-thirds of the American people
voted. The projections are that Tuesday,
this year, two-thirds of the American peo-
ple will not vote.
Tonight, I'm going to discuss some of
the reasons for that, but I would like to
point out to you that when three people
don't vote on election day, ordinarily, two
of them are Democrats, because Demo-
crats quite often are those who have newly
arrived on the scene of full citizenship.
They are people who quite often have
come up out of poverty, who might be
black, who might not speak English very
well, whose parents have only been here
a short time, who have recently got a job
or recently finished an education, who
have recently become interested in poli-
tics and government. So, a strong vote on
election day almost always ensures that
people like DFL candidates, Democrats
throughout the country will be elected.
There's a real reason for the fall-off in
voter participation, and I'd like to ask
you to think back 3 or 4 years about what
our country was. There was a great alien-
ation, distrust, withdrawal by the people
of our country from their Government.
We had been embroiled for many years
in the Vietnam war; 50,000 young Amer-
icans had died. Watergate, an unprece-
dented scandal in our Nation, resulted in
revelations day by day which were an
embarrassment to us all. Top officials in
the heart of our Government-in the
White House, the Attorney General, and
others not only were embarrassed but
were guilty of crimes. Many of them went
to prison. Our CIA was accused, with
some basis, of plotting murder and vio-
lating the law.
Our farmers were facing another
Hoover Depression; income was down.
When we had a slight surplus in feed
grains, food grains, in a completely un-
predictable way, the leaders of our
Government would declare an embargo
and would not let us ship our goods over-
seas to world markets.
When I became President, 10 million
American adults could not find a full-time
job. Seven million Americans couldn't
find a job at all. In your region of Minne-
sota, the unemployment rate was 9 per-
cent throughout the Iron Range, North-
view, and here in Duluth, the unemploy-
ment rate was 9 percent.
Mayor Beaudin told me tonight the
unemployment rate here is less than 4
percent; the same throughout the north-
east.
We saw in times gone by a time when
the elderly people were beginning to
worry about their own future. Social se-
curity, which had begun under a Demo-
1950
