Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 13
enormous increase in taxes on the Amer-
ican people as of the first of the year; not
only the loss of roughly $20 billion in tax
reductions that we've added, but also we
would have lost, say, roughly $13 billion
in tax reductions that had been passed the
previous year.
So, there was a case that was a diffi-
cult decision to make. When I met a few
days before the Congress adjourned with
the leaders of the House and Senate-Al
Ullman in the House, Russell Long in
the Senate and said, "This is what I
will and will not accept," they complied
with my request substantially. And al-
though it was short of what I would have
preferred, my vetoing of that bill would
have been a very serious mistake.
MR. MOYERS. This explanation, this
rationalization, which is necessary in this
town on a lot of compromises, raises the
question about where you think the Dem-
ocratic Party is going. As you know,
Democrats have a tradition of using the
Government's powers to correct the im-
balances and the injustices of the capi-
talist economy, to innovate, to equalize,
to take risks. Republicans are elected
generally to manage, to stabilize, to pull
in the horns a little bit.
Howard Baker is going around town
saying the minority leader of the Sen-
ate-saying that "The Democrats are
singing our song, and it's a Republican
song." And what a lot of people are say-
ing has been reborn in Washington is a
conservative administration with a Dem-
ocratic President with Republican intu-
itions. Do you think that's fair? Isn't the
Democratic Party coopting the Repub-
lican philosophy?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think so.
The Democrats have always been a party
of compassion and concern about the
people of our country. We've always
been eager to extend a helping hand to
somebody who hasn't had an adequate
chance in life to stand on one's own feet,
to make one's own decisions, to control
one's own destiny, to have an education
if they didn't have one, to have a house
to live in, to have better health care, bet-
ter food, security in one's old age, better
highway systems. These are the kinds of
things that the Democratic Party has al-
ways espoused and has always pursued.
I saw quite early in my administration
as Governor of Georgia that we had an
undeserved reputation as Democrats of
not being fiscally responsible and not
being competent in management. One
of the major thrusts of my own Gov-
ernorship was to reorganize the govern-
ment, to get control of the bureaucracy,
to cut taxes, to budget carefully, and I
ran my campaign for President on that
platform. And we've had remarkable
success since I've been here.
We will have cut the budget deficit
more than half compared to what the
Republican administration had when
they went out of office.
We will have passed civil service re-
form to get the bureaucracy under con-
billion in tax reductions. At the same time
trol, for a change. We've had $28 to $30
we've had the largest allocation of in-
creased funds for better education the
country's ever seen. We've had help to
cities and other local governments that's
almost unprecedented. We've sustained
a home building rate of over 2 million a
year.
So, we've been able to combine,
through tough, competent fiscal manage-
ment, both the delivery of good services
to our people and also tight budgeting,
cutting down deficits, cutting taxes. And
the combination of those two, in my
opinion, is not incompatible. You can't
educate a child with inefficiency and
waste and corruption. You can't feed a
hungry person with inefficiency or waste
2025
