July 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Part of that, of course, is attributable
to a shift from more mechanical produc-
tion jobs to more service jobs, and that's
inevitable in a highly advanced society
like ours. Some of it is attributable to the
fact that much of the investment capital
that is available has to go into repairing
the lack of investment in the past in air
pollution, water pollution, better health,
better safety for workers.
This is something that should have
been done for the last 35 or 40 years. And
since it wasn't done, now to catch and
up
to protect us from environmental prob-
lems and for health and safety threats,
you have to put that capital investment
there. This means that when you do
invest $10,000 in capital, you don't nec-
essarily get that much more increase in
productivity per worker.
But I think the inflation is, overall,
my most severe domestic problem. It's
one over which we have a limited control
or influence.
I'm trying to bring down the budget
deficit as rapidly as possible. In fiscal year
1976, the budget deficit was in the 60 bil-
lions of dollars. In 1978, we had brought
it down in the 50 billions of dollars. This
year, we'll bring it down in the 40 billions
of dollars. And when I put forward my
fiscal year '80 budget, on which I'm work-
ing now, it will be in the 30 billions of dol-
lars. We're making steady progress in
spite of increasing demands on the Fed-
eral Government for services. That's one
thing we can do; controlling the bureauc-
racy that I mentioned already, of course,
is another.
Inducing business and labor to exercise
voluntary constraints with a deceleration
formula that's very simple and under-
standable—that is, that when wage nego-
tiations are concluded, when prices are
established, that those wages and prices
increase this year or next year less than
they did the 2 preceding years—and if this
can be accomplished, we can help to over-
come the adverse effects of low produc-
tivity.
When I meet with the foreign leaders
in Bonn, I would say the number one
concern would be employment, and par-
ticularly in, say, Italy and Great Britain,
even Germany. But we recognize that the
two, inflation and employment, are inter-
related, and we've not ignored inflation in
the last 18 months in trying to bring the
unemployment rate down. I don't think
any economist would claim that a 5.7-
percent unemployment rate would con-
tribute to inflation. And we've tried to be
very careful in the action that we've tak-
en not to interrelate the two adversely.
The level of Government spending,
waste elimination, the encouragement of
more capital accumulation are all related
to the things that we've proposed, includ-
ing the income tax measures that we hope
the Congress will accommodate. And as
we increase capital available for reinvest-
ment among the private individual citi-
zens and corporate structures, we want to
do it fairly and equitably, hopefully in a
progressive way, and not reward just
those who are very rich and very power-
ful and very influential. But I think the
attitude we've taken is good.
So, in almost every area-foreign af-
fairs, civil service reform, employment,
housing, productivity, tax reform—infla-
tion is an overriding consideration.
Q. Mr. President, just following on the
issue of inflation, what could you say to
the American people and through us in
answer to their question: "When is my
dollar going to at least stabilize? When
will the costs be at least standing still, not
continue to go up? Is there a time, or
what can I expect in the near future?"
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it would
be a mistake for me to mislead anyone or
to put forward a projection that I don't
1352
