Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And we wonder if you have further plans whole [laughter] every weekend, all
to cut down on the bureaucratic-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I'm a small busi-
nessman myself, was before I came here.
My son runs a grain elevator, a small
one in Calhoun, Georgia. And one of the
campaign commitments that I made was
to cut down on unnecessary regulations.
We've done this very well, I think. And
almost any small business person would
tell you that within the last 20 months,
those regulations and investigations that
were obviously unnecessary have been
eliminated. We've got a long way to go.
It's very difficult to change this process.
We've also issued a directive, which is
being carried out, to cut down on the vol-
ume of paperwork. The goal that we set
for ourselves was a 10-percent reduction
this past year. HEW, which was the big-
gest violator in the past, cut theirs this
past 12 months by 17 percent.
We've done this by asking college presi-
dents, small business people and others,
State school superintendents-all of
whom have been in this room to meet with
me to go back to their own offices and
to give me a specific list of the forms and
reports they have to file with the Federal
Government, to detail for me and for the
Office of Management and Budget where
duplications exist, where they send the
same information to several Federal agen-
cies; also when they think in their own
mind that a report can be abbreviated,
and when it's a weekly report or a monthly
report, how it might be changed into one
filed every 6 months or perhaps every
year. This has paid rich dividends.
We also now are writing regulations in
plain English so that they can be under-
stood. We require the authors of the regu-
lations now to sign them. And for about a
month I required every member of my
Cabinet to read all the regulations that
came out of their department. [Laughter]
Two of them said that's all they did the
the weekends for a month. But I think
they got a new appreciation of what peo-
ple have had to face in the past.
In OSHA we've got a remarkable wo-
man, Dr. Eula Bingham, who is com-
pletely dedicated to cutting down on the
volume of these unnecessary regulations.
She's tried to emphasize writing regula-
tions to protect workers health, like the
description of requirements to eliminate
chemical substances or fumes that can't
be detected by the worker. That needs to
be monitored very carefully.
But on safety regulations, we've tried
to get away from written directives. I
would challenge any of you with your
superb professional capabilities to write
me a regulation on what is and is not a
safe chair, for instance. [Laughter] And
that was what OSHA was trying to do.
In 1 day this year Eula Bingham ter-
minated the application of 1,100 OSHA
regulations. And although a few of those
are still on the books-she has to go
through a procedure to eliminate them-
they are not being enforced. And I know
Billy, at his service station, says that the
OSHA inspections and regulations are
much less onerous than they were before.
[Laughter]
EDUCATION
Q. This has to do with the reorganiza-
tion of government and, specifically, the
creation of the department of education.
I've talked to several self-styled and ap-
pointed-type experts in the field of edu-
cation. And to pinpoint it, they're talk-
ing about education by choice, which has
several other names. I realize they have
two bills pending that would assist educa-
tion, both at the college level for the mid-
dle income, and both at the other
intermediate school level.
The question is, it seems to me that
there may be a third bill that is needed to
1594
