Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the Federal government to pay more than
$1.6 billion over that same period.
This proposal fails to recognize that a
large part of that liability derives from
abuses of the disability retirement statutes
which were permitted to flourish by those
responsible for their effective administra-
tion. It undervalues or ignores the signifi-
cance of Federal assistance through the
Federal funding of benefits for thousands
of District employees who participate in
the Federal Civil Service Retirement Sys-
tem. I am therefore of the view that the
enrolled bill overstates the degree of Fed-
eral responsibility.
ing together, I am sure we can place the
District retirement programs on a sound
basis in a manner which both limits the
extent of Federal financial responsibility,
while also recognizing the Federal respon-
sibility in this area.
The White House,
November 4, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum of dis-
approval was released on November 5.
Veto of Bill Concerning Shipping
Although the bill's benefit and disability Rebating Laws
retirement reforms are desirable, its fail-
ure to apply these reforms to current em-
ployees constitutes a serious and costly de-
ficiency. While the bill contains a penalty
clause, the purpose of which is to reduce
the Federal payment if abuse persists, the
application of basic statutory reforms to
all employees would be a far more effec-
tive and efficient means of preventing a
recurrence of the abuses which have pre-
vailed in recent years.
Memorandum of Disapproval of H.R. 9518.
November 4, 1978
MEMORANDUM OF DISAPPROVAL
I have decided not to sign into law
H.R. 9518. This legislation, which would
impose severe enforcement measures in
the area of ocean shipping rebating, re-
flects concern with the possible disparity
in enforcement of our anti-rebating laws
Accordingly, I am compelled to with- against US-flag carriers but not against
hold my approval from this bill.
I realize that many members of Con-
gress have worked long and hard with the
Administration on this question. I agree
with them that there is indeed a Federal
responsibility to see that this program is
converted to one which is actuarially
sound and which minimizes opportunity
for abuse.
I look forward to working with the
Congress and the elected representatives
of the District of Columbia early in the
next session to develop acceptable retire-
ment funding and reform legislation. We
are prepared to consider a reasonable Fed-
eral financial contribution, providing that
provisions are included that fully remedy
the problem of retirement abuses. Work-
foreign flag operators. I share that con-
cern, and any disparity that exists must be
eliminated.
The United States is currently engaged
in important discussions with several Eu-
ropean countries and Japan in an attempt
to reach cooperative agreements involving
a number of shipping problems, including
rebating. Rather than taking immediate
unilateral action undermining these ef-
forts, I have directed the Secretary of
State, in cooperation with the Federal
Maritime Commission and other agencies
to pursue these talks vigorously and to re-
port to me on their progress. I am also
directing the Administration's Maritime
Policy Task Force to provide, by an early
date, a set of recommendations that will
1962
