Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Government is proposing, with their costs
and objectives.
As President, I will personally use my
authority to ensure that regulations are
issued only when needed and that they
meet their goals at the lowest possible cost.
We are also cutting away the regulatory
thicket that has grown up around us and
giving our competitive free enterprise sys-
tem a chance to grow up in its place.
Last year we gave the airline industry a
fresh shot of competition. Regulations
were removed. Free market forces drove
prices down, record numbers of passen-
gers traveled, and profits went up. Our
new airline deregulation bill will make
these benefits permanent. For the first
time in decades, we have actually dereg-
ulated a major industry.
Next year we will work with Congress
to bring more competition to others, such
as the railroad and trucking industries.
Of all our weapons against inflation,
competition is the most powerful. Without
real competition, prices and wages go up,
even when demand is going down. We
must therefore work to allow more com-
petition wherever possible so that power-
ful groups-government, business, la-
bor-must think twice before abusing
their economic power. We will redouble
our efforts to put competition back into
the American free enterprise system.
Another reason for inflation is the slow-
down in productivity growth. More effi-
cient production is essential if we are to
control inflation, make American goods
more competitive in world markets, add
new jobs, and increase the real incomes
of our people.
We've made a start toward improving
productivity. The tax bill just passed by
the Congress includes many of the in-
vestment incentives that I recommended
last January. Federal support for research
and development will continue to in-
crease, especially for basic research. We
will coordinate and strengthen Federal
programs that support productivity im-
provements throughout our economy.
Our Government efforts will attack the
inflation that hurts most, inflation in the
essentials-food, housing, and medical
care.
We will continue to use our agricul-
tural policies to sustain farm production,
to maintain stable prices, and to keep in-
flation down.
Rising interest rates have always ac-
companied inflation. They add further to
the costs of business expansion and to
what consumers must pay when they buy
houses and other consumer items.
The burden of controlling inflation can-
not be left to monetary policy alone,
which must deal with the problem
through tight restrictions on money and
credit that push interest rates up. I will
work for a balanced, concerted, and sus-
tained program under which tight budget
restraint, private wage and price modera-
tion, and responsible monetary policy sup-
port each other. If successful, we should
expect lower inflation and lower interest
rates for consumers and businesses alike.
As for medical care, where costs have
gone up much faster than the general in-
flation rate, the most important step we
can take is to pass a strong bill to control
hospital costs. This year the Senate passed
one. Next year I will try again, and I be-
lieve the whole Congress will act to hold
down hospital costs—if your own Mem-
bers of Congress hear from you.
Between now and January, when the
new Congress convenes, I will be prepar-
ing a package of specific legislative pro-
posals to help fight inflation.
The Government will do its part, but in
a country like ours, Government cannot
do the job alone. In the end, the success
or failure of this effort will also rest on
1842
