Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 3
who are competent and dedicated be re-
warded by a chance to serve better and in
a more responsible position.
CIVIL SERVICE REORGANIZATION
PAUL H. GILBERT. Mr. President, I'm
Paul Gilbert, out of the Department of
the Navy. I'm a civilian personnel man-
agement specialist, and I've been involved
with the reorganization that we're plan-
ning to effect in the near future.
The civil service reform is designed to
bring about greater efficiency and better
management in the Federal sector. The
proposed legislation is designed to dises-
tablish the Civil Service Commission and
set up three new organizations. I feel that
the charter for these organizations will in
many cases provide conflicting missions
and functions. I'm concerned that we're
moving toward fractionalization versus
consolidation.
How do you foresee the proposed reor-
ganization improving the efficiency of the
Federal sector in such adversarial con-
ditions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in one instance,
the national labor relations organization,
this is just a transfer of responsibility, and
the major benefit there is that in the fu-
ture those bargaining rights and other
labor relations elements in our Govern-
ment structure which have, as I've said in
the past, just been a matter of a Presiden-
tial Executive order, will be incorporated
in the structure of the law so that em-
ployees will have their bargaining rights
protected on a permanent basis.
There is one additional agency formed,
however. We will now have instead of
the Civil Service Commission, which is
responsible for personnel management on
the one hand, and the same people re-
sponsible for the protection of the em-
ployees, we'll have two separate entities.
The Office of Personnel Management
will be responsible for assuring that the
civil service system works, that proper
hiring techniques are prescribed, exam-
inations, competitive relationships, to
make sure that our Government is more
effective.
Separated from that and removing the
inherent conflict that did exist in the past
will be a Merit System Protection Board,
which will have as its unique responsi-
bility the protection of the rights of those
who serve in government. And a new of-
fice completely independent from the
President, serving, I believe, for 7 years,
removable only for cause, will be a new
special counsel, completely separated from
the management of the civil service sys-
tem, but dedicated completely to ensuring
that the rights of employees are not vio-
lated.
So, I believe that the division of those
two responsibilities-personnel manage-
ment on one hand, and the protection of
employees on the other-is a logical divi-
sion and one which was needed in the
past when the civil service system has on
occasion been abused.
SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE
RUTH G. VAN CLEVE. Mr. President,
may I ask you to comment on the Senior
Executive Service? You called your re-
form proposal a centerpiece. I think the
Senior Executive Service is the center-
piece of the centerpiece. I am a Federal
employee of many, many years' standing.
I hope the Senior Executive Service comes
into being. I look forward to being a part
of it, and look forward to that with
enthusiasm.
At the same time, perhaps I should
digress to point out that I have not said
that, I think, before to anyone, and I
believe my views and, indeed, so far as I
know, the views of all of the members of
1363
