Oct. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Equal Employment
Opportunity Functions
Executive Order 12086. October 5, 1978
CONSOLIDATION OF CONTRACT COMPLI-
ANCE FUNCTIONS FOR EQUAL EMPLOY-
MENT OPPORTUNITY
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, including
Section 202 of the Budget and Account-
ing Procedures Act of 1950 (31 U.S.C.
581c), in order to provide for the trans-
fer to the Department of Labor of cer-
tain contract compliance functions relat-
ing to equal employment opportunity, it
is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Transfer of Functions.
1-101. The functions concerned with
being primarily responsible for the en-
forcement of the equal employment op-
portunity provisions under Parts II and
III of Executive Order No. 11246, as
amended, are transferred or reassigned
to the Secretary of Labor from the follow-
ing agencies:
(a) Department of the Treasury.
(b) Department of Defense.
(c) Department of the Interior.
(d) Department of Commerce.
(e) Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
(f) Department of Housing and Ur-
ban Development.
(g) Department of Transportation.
(h) Department of Energy.
(i) Environmental Protection Agency.
(j) General Services Administration.
(k) Small Business Administration.
1-102. The records, property, person-
nel and positions, and unexpended bal-
ances of appropriations or funds related
to the functions transferred or reassigned
by this Order, that are available and nec-
essary to finance or discharge those func-
tions, are transferred to the Secretary of
Labor.
1-103. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make such
determinations, issue such orders, and
take all actions necessary or appropriate
to effectuate the transfers or reassign-
ments provided by this Order, including
the transfer of funds, records, property,
and personnel.
1-2. Conforming Amendments to Execu-
tive Order No. 11246.
1-201(a). In order to reflect the trans-
fer of enforcement responsibility to the
Secretary of Labor, Section 201 of Exec-
utive Order No. 11246, as amended, is
amended to read:
"Sec. 201. The Secretary of Labor shall
be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of Parts II and III of this
Order. The Secretary shall adopt such
rules and regulations and issue such or-
ders as are deemed necessary and appro-
priate to achieve the purposes of Parts
II and III of this Order.".
(b) Paragraph (7) of the contract
clauses specified in Section 202 of Execu-
tive Order No. 11246, as amended, is
amended to read:
""(7) The contractor will include the
provisions of paragraphs (1) through
(7) in every subcontract or purchase or-
der unless exempted by rules, regulations,
or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued
pursuant to Section 204 of Executive Or-
der No. 11246 of September 24, 1965,
so that such provisions will be binding
upon each subcontractor or vendor. The
contractor will take such action with re-
spect to any subcontract or purchase or-
der as may be directed by the Secretary
of Labor as a means of enforcing such
provisions including sanctions for non-
compliance: Provided, however, that in
1714
