Nov. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
In the absence of that, Mr. Meany, I
think, made clear in one of the Sunday
afternoon talk shows that he did encour-
age individual labor unions to cooperate,
within the bounds of their desires and
what's best for their own members. So,
I've got, I'd say,
a minimal, at least, de-
gree of support from the AFL-CIO presi-
dent. Of course, he recognized, as do I,
that we have international presidents,
themselves, to make decisions. There are
several thousand bargaining units in the
country. We've gotten fairly substantial
encouragement from the UAW, one of
the major labor unions, and also from the
Teamsters, who will be negotiating a con-
tract next year.
I'm determined, as is Alfred Kahn and
other members of my administration, to
make the anti-inflation package work. I
don't intend to back down. I'll do every-
thing I can that's legal within the bounds
of my own authority and my influence
with Congress to assure that the anti-in-
flation package is successful. And I think
that most labor members, in organized
unions or otherwise, feel that it's much
better for them to control inflation than
it is to let it run rampant, even if they
were to get some small increases in-
temporary increases in wages that are
then overcome by increased inflation.
Everybody wants inflation to be con-
trolled, including the members of labor
unions.
Q. Mr. President, Stan Karmack,
KCMO, Kansas City. We have con-
firmed with the Hershey Corporation this
morning that the price of a Hershey bar
is going up 9.3 percent. Since that is
above your wage and price guidelines,
will you try to put the bite on the
Hershey bar? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. If the report is true,
then I would disapprove it strongly. We
do have some persuasion that we can ex-
ercise. I would hope that the Hershey
Company and all other companies would
comply with our policy proposed, that
any increase that they implement would
be at least one-half percent below the av-
erage of their increase for 1976 and 1977.
I'm not adequately familiar with the Her-
shey prices in the past to see if this is in
compliance with it.
But through purchasing policies of the
Federal Government, through competi-
tion, through the disapproval expressed
by myself, other leaders of our Nation,
and individual consumers, I would hope
that deviation from our policies could
any
be controlled.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, question on the Mid-
dle East. Do you agree with President
Sadat's view that the two agreements, the
one on the West Bank and the agreement
now being negotiated for peace between
Israel and Egypt, have to be linked in
some way?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's never
been any doubt in my mind, nor President
Sadat's, nor Prime Minister Begin's, that
one of the premises for the Camp David
negotiations was a comprehensive peace
settlement that includes not just an iso-
lated peace treaty between Israel and
Egypt but includes a continuation of a
solution for the West Bank, Gaza Strip,
and ultimately for the Golan Heights as
well. There is some difference of opinion
between the two leaders about how spe-
cifically it should be expressed in the Sinai
treaty.
I personally favor the presently nego-
tiated language, which in the preamble
does say that both nations commit them-
selves to carry out the comprehensive
peace agreement as was agreed at Camp
David. This is a matter for negotiation
between the two leaders.
1990
