Dec. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and the Office of Management and Budg-
et. In addition, the written views of
labor, industry, and the general public
will be solicited.
Advisory Committee for
Trade Negotiations
Appointment of Glenn E. Watts as a
Member. December 15, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Glenn E. Watts, of Chevy
Chase, Md., as a member of the Advisory
Committee for Trade Negotiations.
Watts is president of the Communica-
tions Workers of America and a member
of the executive council of the AFL-CIO.
Board of Foreign Scholarships
Appointment of Four Members.
December 15, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of four persons as members
of the Board of Foreign Scholarships for
3-year terms. They are:
JEWEL PLUMMER COBB, dean of the college
and professor of biological science at Doug-
lass College, Rutgers University, New Bruns-
wick, N.J. (reappointment);
WALTER A. ROSENBLITH, of Brookline, Mass.,
a provost and institute professor of com-
munications biophysics at Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, a fellow of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences;
SUSANNE H. RUDOLPH, professor and chair of
the department of political science at the
University of Chicago, an expert on South
Asia;
ALFRED L. STERN, a professor in the division
of humanistic studies and the division of
natural sciences at Monteith College, Wayne
State University, in Detroit, currently on
leave serving as Associate Director of the
White House Domestic Policy Staff.
Diplomatic Relations Between the
United States and the People's
Republic of China
Address to the Nation. December 15, 1978
Good evening.
I would like to read a joint communi-
que which is being simultaneously issued
in Peking at this very moment by the
leaders of the People's Republic of China:
[At this point, the President read the text of
the joint communique, which reads as follows:]
JOINT COMMUNIQUE ON THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
JANUARY 1, 1979
The United States of America and the
People's Republic of China have agreed to
recognize each other and to establish diplo-
matic relations as of January 1, 1979.
The United States of America recognizes
the Government of the People's Republic of
China as the sole legal Government of China.
Within this context, the people of the United
States will maintain cultural, commercial, and
other unofficial relations with the people of
Taiwan.
The United States of America and the
People's Republic of China reaffirm the
principles agreed on by the two sides in the
Shanghai Communique and emphasize once
again that:
-Both wish to reduce the danger of inter-
national military conflict.
-Neither should seek hegemony in the Asia-
Pacific region or in any other region of
the world and each is opposed to efforts
by any other country or group of countries
to establish such hegemony.
-Neither is prepared to negotiate on behalf
of any third party or to enter into agree-
ments or understandings with the other
directed at other states.
-The Government of the United States of
America acknowledges the Chinese posi-
tion that there is but one China and
Taiwan is part of China.
2264
