Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
I. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
Most Vietnam-era Veterans are now
doing better economically than non-vet-
erans of the same age and background.
In 1977, Vietnam-era Veterans aged 20
39 had median personal incomes of
$12,680 compared to $9,820 for similar-
aged non-veterans. When compared by
family income, the figures are $15,040
and $12,850 respectively. For Vietnam-
era Veterans aged 20-34, the unemploy-
ment rate of 7.4% for September one year
ago declined to 4.9% in September,
1978. As in all other sectors, unemploy-
ment rates for Veterans are substantially
lower than they were when this Adminis-
tration took office. We have hired nearly
98,000 Vietnam-era Veterans in public
service jobs as part of the Administration's
Economic Stimulus Package. Jobs and
training assistance for Veterans became a
top domestic priority when the Adminis-
tration took office; the results are now
clearly visible.
But if the overall employment picture
for Vietnam-era Veterans is encouraging,
the unemployment problems of minority,
disabled, and disadvantaged Vietnam-era
Veterans are cause for continued concern
and attention. Black Vietnam-era Vet-
erans, a significant percentage of whom
saw active combat, face unemployment
rates of 11.2% for the third quarter of
1978 compared to 15.9% for the third
quarter of 1977. For the more seriously
disabled Veterans, the unemployment rate
is estimated to range as high as 50%. We
have made great strides in every area of
employment since the beginning of my
Administration, but these jobless rates are
still far too high. There is a clear need to
better coordinate employment and em-
ployment assistance programs so that they
are targeted on those Veterans most in
need.
With that in mind, I have ordered a
comprehensive review of the overall sys-
tem for delivery of employment services
to veterans. The review will yield further
suggestions for improvement, but I have
already initiated action to:
• improve the participation of Vet-
erans in all Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act (CETA) programs. We
have designed a number of ways of mak-
ing sure CETA prime sponsors take ac-
They include: inspecting grant plans and
count of the special needs of Veterans.
monitoring local prime sponsor systems to
assure consideration of the Vietnam-era
Veteran and seeking to have better Vet-
erans representation on prime sponsor
councils.
• continue operation of a national
Help Through Industry Retraining and
Employment (HIRE) program at a $40
million level, and supplement it with a
$90 million HIRE II program, paid
for with carry-over funds from the origi-
nal HIRE effort. HIRE I is a national
contract program operated through State
Employment Services across the country,
and through the National Alliance for
Business. It hires and trains Veterans,
members of Veterans' families eligible for
Veterans' preference, and disadvantaged
non-veteran youth for jobs in the private
sector. HIRE II will decentralize sponsors
to contract for and operate it in coopera-
tion with State Employment Security
agencies. HIRE II will be available exclu-
sively for Veterans. Participants will also
have access to all of the training, public
employment and outreach services avail-
able through other CETA programs.
• Secure from Congress authority to
spend in Fiscal 1979 HIRE funds appro-
priated in 1977. Without this extension
the unobligated funds would have re-
verted to the Treasury.
1739
