Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 20, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
October 13, 1978
The Congress will decide on the energy
legislation, possibly today. The Senate
has completed most of the component
parts. The House has now come out of the
Rules Committee with a decision, which
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hate to interrupt is compatible with what they decided early
your meeting with Jody.
95TH CONGRESS
You've come at a very interesting
time-the last few days, or few hours, I
hope, of the 95th Congress and when a
considerable amount of domestic legisla-
tion is being decided. The rapid pace of
the congressional session, according to
some of the oldtimers, is unexcelled in
previous years. And I think that confusion
abounds on the Hill, but a lot of
tory work has been done by the subcom-
mittees and committees. And I think that
we will have a successful session.
prepara-
I signed this morning one of the most
far-reaching and important pieces of legis-
lation that has been considered since I've
been in office, and that's a complete re-
form of the civil service system, the key to
better management of the entire Govern-
ment structure. And I'm very grateful for
the rapid movement on this complicated
legislation. It's the first time in 95 years
that the civil service has been changed in
any appreciable degree.
last year, that the entire package would
be considered as a unit. There will be a
test on calling the previous question, a
test on the rule, and then a vote on the
entire package, whether it should be ac-
cepted or rejected. We don't know the
outcome, of course, but we're working
very hard on that. And I've probably
made-well, I have made dozens of calls,
beginning early last week, on the energy
question.
Hospital cost containment, which I
consider to be the most important single
controlling factor on inflation in the fu-
ture, has now passed the Senate. It will be
considered very quickly, within the next
few minutes, as a matter of fact, by the
Ways and Means Committee in the
House. If it should pass there—we're
working very hard to get it passed—it will
go through the Rules Committee, hope-
fully get on the calendar in the waning
days of the session.
Airline deregulation, another very im-
portant anti-inflation measure, has al-
ready been proven in practice, primarily
1775
