Oct. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Restoration of Citizenship Rights
to Jefferson F. Davis
Statement on Signing S.J. Res. 16 Into Law.
October 17, 1978
In posthumously restoring the full rights
of citizenship to Jefferson Davis, the Con-
gress officially completes the long process
of reconciliation that has reunited our
people following the tragic conflict be-
tween the States. Earlier, he was specifi-
cally exempted from resolutions restoring
the rights of other officials in the Confed-
eracy. He had served the United States
long and honorably as a soldier, Member
of the U.S. House and Senate, and as Sec-
retary of War. General Robert E. Lee's
citizenship was restored in 1976. It is fit-
ting that Jefferson Davis should no longer
be singled out for punishment.
Our Nation needs to clear away the
guilts and enmities and recriminations of
the past, to finally set at rest the divisions
that threatened to destroy our Nation and
to discredit the great principles on which
it was founded. Our people need to turn
their attention to the important tasks that
still lie before us in establishing those
principles for all people.
NOTE: As enacted, S.J. Res. 16 is Public Law
95-466, approved October 17.
Water Research and
Development Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2704 Into Law.
October 17, 1978
Today I am signing S. 2704, the Water
Research and Development Act of 1978.
This legislation brings together two im-
portant concerns of mine: greater sup-
port for basic research and a vigorous
search for practical ways to solve the in-
creasing problems of water quality and
quantity in various parts of the Nation.
The national water policy announced
earlier this year will be strengthened by
the water research program enacted by
this bill, which is based on legislation I
requested in 1977.
The Office of Water Research and
Technology in the Department of the In-
terior will be the agency responsible for
putting this legislation into action. It will
provide for new research in saline water
conversion, water re-use, water conserva-
tion, water problems of urbanizing areas,
and other water-efficient technologies. It
will support 54 water research institutes
throughout the Nation. It will assist in the
training of water scientists and engineers,
the transfer of water research results to
water managers at the local and State
levels, and the demonstration of tech-
nology to solve critical water problems
wherever they exist.
I particularly want to congratulate
Congressman Lloyd Meeds and Senator
Mike Gravel for the work they have done
on this bill. I am pleased to sign S. 2704.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2704 is Public Law
95-467, approved October 17.
Tribally Controlled Community
College Assistance Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 1215 Into Law.
October 17, 1978
I am pleased today to sign into law S.
1215, the Tribally Controlled Community
College Assistance Act of 1978. This legis-
lation authorizes additional Federal assist-
ance to community colleges controlled by
American Indians on their reservations.
This past summer, the "Longest Walk"
brought attention to the special needs of
1786
