Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
didn't get it until he was 16 years old.
[Laughter] He's a man who comes from
humble beginnings. He's a man who ex-
emplifies in my mind the true spirit of
Tennessee. He's worked hard. He has cast
his lot with the people of this State. He's
a competent, successful businessman.
When I was Governor of Georgia, I
spent about 25 percent of my time trying
to bring industry into my State. I spent
that time trying to revive the possibility of
jobs for Georgians, to make sure we were
a dynamic, growing State, to make sure
the State government was run economi-
cally and efficiently as a business ought to
be. And you have a true treasure coming
up next year in Jake Butcher as your Gov-
ernor. And I hope every one of you
will
help him.
I have particularly admired his posi-
tive campaign. He has not run a negative
campaign. He's pointed out to you how
Tennessee could be a better State with
good leadership. And he has got a particu-
larly soft spot in his heart for senior
citizens. If he's elected Governor-and
I'm sure he will be-he's promised all
those over 65 years old that you will not
have to pay sales tax on food. That shows
where he stands. That shows one of the
things that he will do.
And now I want to mention a woman
who, next January, is going to make Jim
Sasser senior Senator from Tennessee-
Jane Eskind.
In the Tennessee primary—and there's
no other like it in the whole United
States you had nine candidates for the
Democratic nomination for U.S. Senator.
Nobody thought Jane Eskind had a
chance. Jane Eskind thought she had a
chance. She put her political future in
your hands. And she came through on top.
The reason is that she's tough, compe-
tent, she knows government. She'll come
with a clear eye and a clean-sweeping
broom. She's cast her lot with the little
people, the common, ordinary, good
working people of Tennessee. And she'll
bring to Washington the true spirit of
Andrew Jackson. And I hope all of you
will help her when November 7 comes.
I'll have to express my thanks as a pea-
nut farmer to Ed Jones, the dean of the
Tennessee congressional delegation and
one of the leading members of the Con-
gress in passing agricultural legislation for
our country.
Albert Gore, Jr., fits in well with Ten-
nessee. He's on the committee responsible
for science and technology. And Tennes-
see, with a dynamic economy and a clear
vision of the future, is certainly benefiting
from his incumbency, and I'm sure he'll
go back into office.
And you've got here in Nashville a man
to fill some big shoes, your next Congress-
man, Bill Boner. Ron Arline will be the
next Congressman; Gordon Ball, Mar-
garet Francis. We've got the most won-
derful Democratic slate you've ever had,
and I hope you'll help me get all of them
elected in 2 weeks, November 7, Tuesday
after next. Will you do that for us?
[Applause] Very good.
Now I'd like to say just a word about
our Nation. Tennessee is the Volunteer
State. You got that title and that reputa-
tion because you've always been willing
and eager to defend our Nation when it
was in trouble. And as your Governor
pointed out, since I've been in office,
we've not called on a single Tennessean
nor a single American to lose a life or to
shed blood in conflict in another country.
And I want to keep that record as long
as I'm in the White House.
Our Nation has taken the leadership in
trying to preserve peace for our own
people, in trying to bring peace to others.
We are negotiating now to conclude a
SALT treaty, to make sure that we lessen
1860
