Nov. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
prise system and individual persons' de- authority will be very forceful in cutting
cisions as much as possible.
down the imports of oil.
On deregulation, I think that Alfred
Kahn, who's with you this morning, has
shown vividly that to utilize the free en-
terprise system in a highly competitive
way, as it's designed to be and as it ought
to be, is a very beneficial thing, not only
for the consumers of our Nation but also
to control inflation in general and also to
provide higher profits for well-managed
and competitive industries.
The budget that I'm preparing for 1980
will be a tight one. It will be adequate. I
think part of it, as I've described publicly
in my directives to all agencies, is that we
need to increase productivity. One means
for that, as you well know, being the head
of a major corporation that's used this
effectively, is in research and develop-
ment. And I have directed in the prepara-
tion of the 1980 fiscal year budget that
basic research and in research and devel-
opment in general should not be reduced
as a percentage of the total Federal
budget.
Regulation, unnecessarily, is a very
great and costly burden on American
business, on our economic society. We've
now got a council of regulators. I ap-
pointed a Chairman yesterday, Doug
Costle, and they will make sure that regu-
lations are actually needed, that unneces-
sary ones are eliminated, that they be
simple, nonintrusive, and that whenever
one is issued to protect the quality of
Americans' lives, which is very important,
that we have a very careful assessment of
the economic cost.
On energy, the Congress has finally
passed, after an excessive delay, the basic
elements of our energy plan. We will con-
tinue to improve upon it as time goes on,
and I think you will see in the coming
weeks that our administrative actions
based on the law that now gives us this
I might point out that the tardiness of
the Congress action may result in high
import levels of oil in this particular quar-
ter, but this is an action on the part of
our importers that can be corrected and
will be corrected in the future.
So, Bill Miller's basic thrust in fiscal
responsibility in all its elements are feasi-
ble. They are the kind of commitments
that I have undertaken. I think the Con-
gress itself, Democrats and Republicans,
liberals and conservatives, agree that
we've got to comply with these basic
premises in order to control inflation, to
keep our economy growing, to keep peo-
ple's jobs intact, and to give us a vigorous
influence around the world as the great
strength of our country warrants.
Mr. Dean, I want to thank you again
for your question and a chance to answer
those specific elements of it.
MR. DEAN. Thank you, Mr. President.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Mr. President,
the final question will come from Mr.
William E. Douthit, who is president of
the Urban League of St. Louis. Mr. Dou-
thit, will you please ask your question?
MR. DOUTHIT. Mr. President, as we all
know, inflation hurts the poor and the un-
employed more than anyone. And your
program calling for wage and price re-
straints confronts, in my opinion, the ex-
cess money side of the inflation equation.
On the other side we need to increase pro-
duction and put more people to work. Un-
der your program, what incentives does
business have to do this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think for busi-
ness, Mr. Douthit, to have an assurance of
stability in the future, the value of the
dollar, sustained economic growth, re-
sponsible government actions, increased
opportunity for exports, these kinds of as-
surances to business are the best guaran-
tees that we will have investments in new
1914
