Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
f
the main goals, and the ethics package, as
I say, was one of them. And I'm pleased
to be here in the participating of your
signing this legislation.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Senator Case, would you like to make a
comment?
SENATOR CASE. Mr. President, Mr.
Speaker, this is a very poignant moment
for me. Twenty years ago Dick Neuberger
and I introduced the first disclosure bill
in the Congress. And it's kind of nice to
have it come to fruition before I leave.
And so, I thank you for asking me here.
I thank you, Tip, for your leadership,
and I'm grateful indeed for all the Mem-
bers of the House and Senate who came
to see the light.
Thank you.
SPEAKER O'NEILL. You've been a good
man, Senator.
THE
much.
PRESIDENT. Thank you very
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Cabinet Room at
the White House.
As enacted, S. 555 is Public Law 95-521,
approved October 26.
Anti-Inflation Program
Memorandum From the President.
October 26, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
There is no more important goal for my
Administration than restraining inflation.
A crucial part of this effort is managing
government more efficiently. With that
goal in mind, I am imposing an indefinite
limitation on the hiring of Federal civilian
workers, as of October 25, 1978.
I ask that you limit the number of new
full-time permanent appointments in your
agency to not more than 50 percent of the
new vacancies occurring after October 25,
1978. In other words, for each two new
vacancies, you may appoint one new per-
manent employee. You may not fill such
vacancies as exist on October 24, 1978 ex-
cept by use of the appointments permitted
as a result of new vacancies.
I am instructing the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Civil Service
Commission to issue instructions on this
directive. In addition, I delegate author-
ity to the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget to grant specific ex-
emptions in a very limited number of
cases, when such exemptions are neces-
sary to assure that essential services are
provided and fundamental needs are met.
I ask that, as you carry out this direc-
tive, you do it in a way that protects the
operations in your agency that directly af-
fect the public-for example, Social Se-
curity claims processing and check issu-
ance, and veterans' benefit payments. You
should absorb as much of the impact as
possible in the support and overhead op-
erations of your agency.
It is within your power to determine
whether the government succeeds in this
part of the battle against inflation. I urge
you to do everything possible to assign
your staff where the need is greatest, so
that vital and basic services may continue
uninterrupted. Contracting with firms
and institutions outside the government
must not be used to circumvent the intent
of this directive.
I urge you to give this matter your per-
sonal attention and support.
JIMMY CARTER
1856
