Nov. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
surrounding how the Federal funds are
spent, except when the extreme urgency
of national security is involved.
No aspect of the Government will be
sacred nor sacrosanct. All of it will be
very carefully examined, including the
Defense Department, where I will make
sure that every dollar spent is very care-
fully assessed and where we have the
greatest return on the money that we
spend.
Perhaps you have one or two questions
that you could ask me now before I leave.
And I'll ask Bo Cutter to take over after
I depart, or he might have to help me
with some of the questions. But I want to
let you know that the budget now is in
the formative stage of preparation, and
your comments and your advice, either to
me directly or through Bo Cutter, will be
very helpful to us in establishing our own
priorities.
Does anybody have either a comment
or a question?
Tom [Mayor Tom Moody of Colum-
bus, Ohio, president, National League of
Cities].
Q. Mr. President, you have answered in
your remarks today many of the questions
which members of the board brought up
about the Defense Establishment, about
whether the cities would have to bear the
whole load. I can pledge to you renewed
assurance—we made up our minds before
you came-but we will support you in
your inflation fight.
The President. That's great to know.
I think whatever you do, as you prepare
your own budgets or as you make deci-
sions about purchasing practices, the
writing of your own regulations for your
cities, or the issuing of licenses or the as-
sessment of fees, when you do this in com-
pliance with the spirit of controlling in-
flation, I hope that you'll make every
effort to get maximum publicity for it,
to let the people know that this is a na-
tionwide effort. It would be a mistake for
the people of our country to think that I,
as President, or the business establishment
or labor unions are the only ones who are
responsible and the only ones who can
act effectively to control inflation.
Yes, Johnny [Mayor John Rousakis of
Savannah, Ga., incoming president, Na-
tional League of Cities].
Where you from? [Laughter]
Q. Your favorite city, Savannah.
[Laughter]
[At this point, the President attached to his
jacket a campaign button for Mayor Rousakis'
National League of Cities presidential cam-
paign.]
THE PRESIDENT. I was going to wait
till Wednesday to put it on, but I'll—
[laughter]-
Q. You will be here to second my nom-
ination? [Laughter]
The strength of your commitment to-
wards this partnership in trying to solve
the problem of urban America is starting
to spill over in some States, but not all.
And you don't have that strength of a
commitment from the States. Do you pro-
pose some new incentives or programs
where they can truly become part of this
effort? Because they're not.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in February I'll
be meeting again with all the Governors
when they come to Washington for their
annual meeting with me. And between
now and then, Johnny, if you would work
with Jack Watson and be specific, not only
about the programs where you need bet-
ter cooperation with the Governors and
their administrations but also with us,
and even in a confidential way to let us
know which States have a great deal to
learn or a long way to go, I would be glad
to consult individually or collectively with
the Governors to assure that the partner-
ship does include all the States.
Jack Watson is in daily contact with
the Governors of our Nation. And I'm
2082
