Oct. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
through the international decisions that
have been made by the CAB, with my
own encouragement, to reduce rate costs
drastically for passengers and also freight,
coincidentally, and with an enormous in-
crease in the use of airlines and a remark-
able increase in profits for the airline
companies themselves. We hope to es-
tablish this principle in law. The bill has
passed in very fine form, even better than
we originally submitted it to the House
and Senate. We're now waiting for a vote.
The full employment, planned growth
bill, sometimes known as the Humphrey-
Hawkins bill, will be voted on in the Sen-
ate, also within the next few minutes or
hours.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We have a lot going on in foreign
affairs right now. We had our first meet-
ing with the Israelis and Egyptians yester-
day at Blair House. I had met with the
key negotiating teams earlier, both the
Israelis, first, and the Egyptians. We've
put forward a draft treaty. The group will
be using this as a basis for their negotia-
tions. And we have an excellent negotiat-
ing team representing our country, all of
whom were involved in the Camp David
discussions. And I'm available, of course,
at any moment, day or night, to come in
and help resolve problems or insurmount-
able difficulties.
In the meantime, Cy Vance will leave
this evening, going to South Africa. He'll
be meeting with the Foreign Minister,
Botha, and the new Prime Minister,
Pieter Botha, P.W. Botha, and others
there. He's being joined by the Foreign
Ministers of Canada, Great Britain, and
Germany, and by a key official in the
French Government.
We hope that we can induce the South
Africans to be more forthcoming in quick-
ly resolving the Namibian question, per-
haps giving us some help on the Rhode-
sian question as well. Cy will go from there
to Moscow, where we will have another
discussion between him and Gromyko,
possibly by the President, Brezhnev, as
well, on SALT.
My primary domestic concern is still to
control inflation. We've had a remarkably
good congressional session, I believe, the
first 2 years of my own service with the
Congress, in getting the budget deficit
down and implementing some very strin-
gent attitudes in the Congress that are
somewhat unprecedented.
The risky vetoing of the defense au-
thorization bill and subsequent vetoing of
the public works appropriations bill, I
think, have proven that I and the Con-
gress, working together, want to elimi-
nate unnecessary spending and set an ex-
ample for the rest of the country to
emulate.
Those are just a few of the things that
I thought about a minute ago that I might
mention to you in opening, and now I'll
spend the rest of my time answering your
questions.
QUESTIONS
U.S. SPACE POLICY
Q. Mr. President, I come from Cape
Canaveral, where you visited 2 weeks ago.
There was a big spread in the local news-
papers yesterday that you were ordering
cutbacks in the space program. And there
are also rumors going around the Ken-
nedy Space Center that as soon as the
shuttle becomes operational, you will
order even more cutbacks in an austerity
program. So, my question is this: What
kind of space policy can we expect from
your administration, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think a very aggres-
sive space policy. Anyone who reads the
documents that have been prepared very
carefully, very thoroughly by the Defense
Department, the CIA, NSC, all those who
will use them, including Agriculture,
1776
