Dec. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to comment on that. If I did, I would
want to choose the weakest.
Ms. WALTERS. Would you like to name
the weakest?
inherited a very large Federal budget defi-
cit, which was in 1976 about 4 percent
of our gross national product. By the end
of the 1980 fiscal year, which I'm work-
THE PRESIDENT. [Laughing] No, I ing on now, that budget deficit will drop
wouldn't.
ANTI-INFLATION PROGRAM
MS. WALTERS. Mr. President, we do
want to talk about what is going on in
foreign policy and what's happening in
the Middle East. But, to most Americans
watching tonight, what the polls have
shown and what I think most of us feel is
that the major concern of the American
people is inflation, is the shrinking pocket-
book.
Now, President Nixon tried to tackle
inflation, and he failed. President Ford
tried with his WIN program, and he
failed. There are many economists today,
there are labor leaders and business lead-
ers who feel that your program is inade-
quate.
As the audience sits out there tonight
watching you, why should they have
faith that you, Jimmy Carter, are going
to make it?
THE PRESIDENT. We've got a sound
economic system. We don't have the un-
controllable single factors involved in in-
flation that we had a few years ago.
The rapidly increasing prices of oil
from overseas had quadrupled, as you
know, in a short time, back in 1973.
There's not a worldwide shortage of raw
materials that forced up prices. And now
the American growth rate-how rapidly
our own economy is increasing is be-
coming almost the same as those of our
major trading partners. In the last few
years, the American growth rate has been
perhaps twice as great as most of our
trading partners.
Also, we have escalated the anti-in-
flation fight to a top domestic priority. I
from 4 percent of our GNP down to 1
percent of our GNP, a very substantial
improvement. At the same time, we have
gotten, I think, good results from our em-
ployment program. And I think that re-
cent statistics show that we can have this
stringent anti-inflation program without
causing a recession.
The last thing I'd like to say is that we
have, in addition to proving my determi-
nation and effectiveness at the Federal
Government level, we've had good re-
sponse from business. And I think there
will be growing response from labor as
government and business prove that we
mean business and can cooperate. I don't
intend to fail.
MS. WALTERS. A moment ago, you said
that if Senator Kennedy did run for
President, that you could beat him. What
he is beginning to represent is the liberal
or the side of certain groups, perhaps
blacks and labor leaders and women, who
say that in this inflation program, you are
cutting many of the very important do-
mestic social programs. Now, you have,
particularly this week, been meeting with
some members of those different groups.
And they seem to feel more assured that
you'll be able to keep
you'll be able to keep the social pro-
grams.
Okay, which ones are you going to cut,
and which ones can you assure them may
still stay?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question tonight. I want to say that Sen-
ator Kennedy is a formidable political
person, and I don't underestimate his
effectiveness and his popularity. But the
recent Democratic conference, I think,
gave me strong support in my anti-infla-
tion program, not because of unconcern
2250
