Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 13
I think it was an awareness that Scotty
would be instrumental in implementing
this legislation that made many people
accept it in faith. And our confidence in
you, Scotty, is complete. And I believe
the confidence of all those who serve the
Federal Government in you has made it
possible for this success to be achieved.
I want to express again my thanks to all
of you for a wonderful step forward in
making our Government better for the
American people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Ken-
neth Blaylock is president of the American Fed-
eration of Government Employees, and Alan K.
Campbell is Chairmar of the United States
Civil Service Commission.
As enacted, S. 2640 is Public Law 95-454,
approved October 13.
Civil Service Reform Act
of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2640 Into Law.
October 13, 1978
History will regard the Civil Service Re-
form Act of 1978 as one of the most im-
portant laws enacted by this Congress.
Congress has done an extraordinary job
in shaping this landmark legislation and
enacting it in just over 7 months.
The ceremony today and the legislation
it honors would not have been possible
without the skilled, consistent leadership
of Representative Morris Udall. I am al-
so grateful for the bipartisan efforts of
Representatives Edward Derwinski, and
Chairmen Robert Nix and Jack Brooks
on the House side, Chairman Abraham
Ribicoff and Charles Percy on the Senate
side, and the superb work done by Jim
McIntyre and Scotty Campbell. We all
owe a debt to these men.
In March, when I sent my proposals to
Congress, I said that civil service reform
and reorganization would be the center-
piece of my efforts to bring efficiency and
accountability to the Federal Government.
It will be the key to better performance
in all Federal agencies.
In August, Congress approved Re-
organization Plan No. 2 of 1978, which
restructured the central institutions of
Federal personnel management. This
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, which
I sign today, adds the muscle to that struc-
ture.
This legislation will bring fundamental
improvements to the Federal personnel
system.
It puts merit principles into statute and
defines prohibited personnel practices.
It establishes a Senior Executive Serv-
ice and bases the pay of executives and
senior managers on the quality of their
performance.
It provides a more sensible method for
evaluating individual performance.
It gives managers more flexibility and
more authority to hire, motivate, reward,
and discipline employees to ensure that
the public's work gets done. At the same
time, it provides better protection for em-
ployees against arbitrary actions and
abuses and contains safeguards against
political intrusion.
The act assures that whistleblowers will
be heard, and that they will be protected
from reprisal.
It moves Federal labor relations from
Executive order to statute and provides a
new agency, the Federal Labor Relations
Authority, to monitor the system.
And it provides for systematic research
and development in personnel manage-
ment to encourage continuing improve-
ments of the civil service system.
We know that legislation of this kind is
possible only when highly respected men
and women from outside government
1765
