Aug. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Armed Services Committee to promote
our national security. It's very fitting that
this new guided missile cruiser be named
for the home State of a man who has done
so much to keep our Nation safe and
strong.
In this ceremony today, we are com-
memorating the sources of our Nation's
strength, honoring the men and women
who defend it, and rededicating ourselves
to the principle that our national defense
is the surest protector of our liberty.
Exactly 200 years ago, early in our War
for Independence, that principle led us to
complete our first international alliance-
with the Government of France. Fifteen
hundred miles from where we are today,
in the town of Pascagoula, Mississippi,
the Ambassador of France is today com-
missioning a new American destroyer, the
Comte de Grasse. These twin ceremonies
underscore our unity with the great de-
mocracies of the world in defending free-
dom everywhere.
The vessel we are commissioning, on
which I stand, embodies the tradition of
strength. This is the fourth U.S.S. Missis-
sippi, the fourth to advance our Nation's
interests in peace and to maintain our se-
curity in time of war. Her predecessors
served our Nation during some of the
most crucial times in its history.
The first Mississippi was Commodore
Perry's flagship on his historic voyage to
Japan. The second Mississippi sailed with
President Theodore Roosevelt's Great
White Fleet, serving notice of America's
emergence as a naval power early in this
century. And the battleship Mississippi,
on which I later served, earned eight
battle stars in World War II, participat-
ing in some of that war's most important
Pacific engagements. I'm equally proud
to be here today as this new U.S.S. Mis-
sissippi assumes this great heritage and
these great responsibilities.
This nuclear cruiser will be devoted to
many varied duties, not the least of which
is the assignment to protect in time of
war, and to escort in war and peace, such
great naval ships as the U.S.S. Nimitz,
the nuclear aircraft carrier just behind
the audience.
It's interesting to note, as Admiral
Rickover pointed out to me a few minutes
ago, that 58 percent of the crew of this
modern warship, in fighting trim today,
well-trained, have never been to sea be-
fore on another ship. This is a credit to
the Navy. It shows the youth, the vigor,
the competence of men who man our
ships, and it shows the high technical skill
needed to man a nuclear-powered war-
ship in today's modern world.
In recent years, as Senator Stennis
pointed out, we saw confidence in our
Government and in our Nation falter, and
belief in our national strength and char-
acter has been called into question. But
our country always responded to chal-
lenge, and we have and will maintain this
strength that is so crucial. We have not
and we will not ever become a second-
rate power in any respect, and you can
depend on that.
No matter what is said, often by well-
meaning people, we now maintain, the
United States of America now maintains
the greatest military arsenal on Earth, to
protect and to preserve our freedom and
liberty but, most important of all—and I
speak for all men and women in uniform,
or who have ever served in uniform-to
preserve peace. No group of people wants
peace more than those who are ready to
give their lives in time of war. We possess
the finest service men and women in the
world-people of dedication, of convic-
tion, and of courage.
We've put our national reputation for-
ward, and we are known once again as
the defender of basic and inalienable hu-
1384
