Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 20
the context of discussions in the UNCTAD
Integrated Program for Commodities. Im-
port relief would also affect our bilateral
relations with Canada and with LDC
copper producers, such as Chile, Zambia,
and Peru, who are heavily dependent on
copper exports as a source of foreign ex-
change earnings.
5. Trade adjustment assistance benefits
have been and will continue to be avail-
able to copper mine, smelter, and refinery
workers.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Domestic Copper Industry
Memorandum From the President.
October 20, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination Under Section
202(b) of the Trade Act, Unwrought
Unalloyed Copper
Pursuant to section 202 (b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, 88 Stat.
1978), I have determined the action I
will take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC), transmitted to me on
August 23, 1978, concerning the results
of its investigation of a petition for import
relief. This petition was filed by the Ana-
conda Co., Asarco, Inc., Cities Service Co.
(Minerals Group), Copper Range Co.,
Cyprus Mines Corp., Duval Corp., Hecla
Mining Co., Inspiration Consolidated
Copper Co., Kennecott Copper Corp.,
Magma Copper Co., Phelps Dodge Corp.,
and Ranchers Exploration and Develop-
ment Corp., on behalf of the domestic in-
dustry producing unwrought, unalloyed
copper, provided for in item 612.06 of
the Tariff Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief is not in the national economic
interest for the following reasons:
1. Import relief would impose signifi-
cant costs on U.S. consumers of un-
wrought, unalloyed copper (refined cop-
per). The increases in refined copper
prices resulting from provision of relief
could create incentives for circumven-
tion of relief through increased imports
of other copper products such as scrap,
blister, and fabricated items. This would
effectively reduce the level of protection
provided to the domestic copper indus-
try. Moreover, domestic copper fabrica-
tors would be faced with higher refined
copper input costs and, at the same time,
possible increased import competition in
fabricated products.
2. Domestic copper market conditions
have improved during 1978 and there is
an improving outlook over the next sev-
eral years for both the U.S. and world
copper markets. U.S. and world copper
prices have risen markedly during 1978
and the world inventory overhang has
declined. Domestic refined copper pro-
duction was up slightly during the first
part of 1978; and imports have begun
to decline from the high levels prevailing
during the first part of the year.
3. Provision of import relief would sub-
ject U.S. jobs in other industries to pos-
sible foreign retaliation against U.S. ex-
ports or compensation by the United
States in the form of reducing import
restrictions on other products.
4. Import relief would adversely affect
U.S. international economic interests. It
would be contrary to our efforts to reduce
trade barriers in the MTN and to de-
1805
