Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
civil servants work-to reward good per-
formance, to correct bad performance, to
let managers manage, to let there be a
new spirit of service and pride for people
who are really self-sacrificing in many
ways, who have given their one life to a
full career of serving others. This is what
we hope to open is a new vision of what
dedicated, professional, career public
servants can do.
This was not an easy thing. But it shows
that Democrats in the White House and
in the Congress can work together to make
the organizational structure of our Gov-
ernment more efficient, more effective.
I also share with Bill Bradley a hope
that we can have better budgeting pro-
cedures. I believe in a balanced budget.
And I'm working hard to correct the de-
ficiencies that existed for so many years
before I was inaugurated as President.
When I ran for President in 1976 in
your State, the budget deficit was in the
high sixties of billions of dollars. The first
budget that I prepared, fiscal year 1978,
was in the fifties of billions of dollars, low
fifties-51, I think. This proposal that the
Congress now considers, fiscal year 1979,
will be in the low forties of billions of
dollars. I'm preparing the 1980 budget
now. It'll be in the thirties of billions of
dollars.
These reductions in deficits are what
the American people demand. At the same
time, we've not cut corners on delivering
services to the American people. And in
addition to the tremendous reduction in
deficits by the end of this year, I think the
Democrats in the Congress will have de-
livered to the American people a reduc-
tion in income taxes of more than $25 bil-
lion. This is the kind of record that makes
us all proud; it's the kind of philosophy
that has bound us together with the exist-
ing Members of Congress who are Demo-
crats; it's the kind of procedure that
I'm sure will be even enhanced when
Bill Bradley joins us next January in
Washington.
I guess when I was elected, the biggest
problem that Americans faced was unem-
ployment. At that time in our Nation, 10
million Americans who wanted to work
and who were able to work could not find
a full-time job. About 8 million Ameri-
cans had no job at all. The unemploy-
ment rate was 8 percent. And I and the
Democratic Congress began to work on
this problem together in harmony. Since
then, we've had a net increase of 6 million
new jobs in our country. Never before
have we seen a growth in employment ap-
proaching this magnitude. The unemploy-
ment rate has dropped 25 percent, from 8
down to 6 percent. And we've begun to
focus more accurately now on those who
have been the chronically unemployed-
minority groups, young people, women—
to bring them in this circle of Americans
who can stand with pride and say, "I sup-
port myself. God gave me a certain
amount of talent and ability, and now I
can use it for productive purposes."
There's nothing more devastating to a
young person who arrives at the age of
18 or 19, finishing high school, to know
that he has enormous promise within him-
self or within herself and to be deprived
of a right to serve usefully. After a year
or two of a self-realization of shame be-
cause one's life is not productive, there's
an inclination for a young person to turn
against society, to lash out at the structure
of our country.
And these are the things that Democrats
have been trying to accomplish.
We've still got some very serious prob-
lems obviously. We haven't solved all the
problems. For the last 10 years, we've had
an inflation rate of about 6 or 7 percent,
entirely too high. And now there comes a
time when we are ready to address this
1552
