Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 29
during the last 8 years, since Mr. Nouira
became Prime Minister of Tunisia.
I think among all those nations who
have had a close economic aid relation-
ship with the United States, Tunisia has
excelled in the rapid technological and
economic development among their peo-
ple. They have made full and increasing
use of the great natural resources and
human resources of their country. And
along with this economic development
has come a very rapid evolution into a
leadership role among the developing
nations of the world, the Arab commu-
nity, and within the United Nations
especially.
So, the political and economic lead-
ership which has exemplified Tunisia's
role accurately expresses the strength and
the purpose, the innovation and com-
mitment of the people of that great
country.
Tunisia is recognized as having a gov-
ernment and leaders that are at the same
time practical and effective and idealistic
and never deviating from proper princi-
ples of government. This leadership un-
der Prime Minister Nouira and President
Bourguiba has also been exemplified by
great courage.
As a member of the Arab nation com-
munity, as far back as 1965, President
Bourguiba called for a recognition of Is-
rael, its right to exist, its right to be rec-
ognized as a nation. We have received
good advice, good counsel, good support
from Tunisia during our own times of
effort to bring peace to the Middle East
and to the northern portion of the con-
tinent of Africa.
I'm looking forward to my opportunity
today to discuss with the Prime Minister
these same concerns that we share and
the same prospects for further progress
the future. We also are exploring ways
in
for
increased economic cooperation, mili-
tary counsel and communication, the
sharing, for both peace and security, ag-
ricultural development in Tunisia and
cultural exchange. At the same time we
have Peace Corps volunteers in Tunisia
teaching English and performing other
roles, there are volunteers from Tunisia
now working in Louisiana, teaching
French. This is typical of the human,
economic, and political interrelationships
that exist between our countries.
And again, on behalf of the American
people, I welcome Prime Minister Nou-
ira, an experienced statesman, a coura-
geous leader who works with us and for
his people for peace, prosperity, and do-
mestic and international justice.
Mr. Prime Minister, welcome to our
country.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
your words of welcome are a moving tes-
timony of the sympathy and support that
the United States has for Tunisia. On be-
half of my country, in the name of Presi-
dent Bourguiba, whose work of wisdom
you have just saluted, I want to thank
you. In my turn I extend to the American
people the very friendly greeting of the
Tunisian nation.
Coming to Washington, I have the
very natural feeling to be among friends
of Tunisia. Longstanding relations have
drawn our countries ever closer. Human-
istic America gave us her support and
sympathy during our struggle for national
liberation.
Modern Tunisia has found in your
country an active solidarity. Since the
time when free to shape our destiny, we
have worked to secure our economic and
social development. And so today we fol-
low this tradition of exchanges, exchange
of views and consultation, and thus I have
the privilege to reestablish a personal con-
tact with the chief of state for whom
2091
