Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 15
liams, and Congressmen Dent, Ullman,
Gibbons, Pickle, Conable, and Erlenborn
for their support and leadership on this
plan.
Agricultural Foreign Investment
Disclosure Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 3384 Into Law.
October 14, 1978
Today, I am signing into law S. 3384,
the Agricultural Foreign Investment Dis-
closure Act of 1978.
This legislation establishes a nationwide
system to monitor foreign purchases of
U.S. farmland and directs the Secretary
of Agriculture to evaluate the effects of
such foreign investment on family farms
and rural communities. The bill estab-
lishes a series of detailed reporting require-
ments that will apply to all foreign citizens
who hold or acquire a significant interest
in American agricultural land.
For some time, many of our Nation's
farmers have expressed concerns that in-
creased foreign investment in U.S. farm
real estate has driven land prices up.
There have also been fears that foreign
investors may be more willing to sub-
divide their land or divert it to other uses.
While recent surveys by the Commerce
Department and the General Accounting
Office suggest that foreign ownership of
domestic farmland is still very low, I rec-
ognized that we need more information
on farmland ownership patterns before we
reach definite conclusions.
S. 3384 should help fill that informa-
tion gap. Together with a study under
way
in the Agriculture Department to deter-
mine the best long-range approach to
monitoring foreign investment in U.S.
real estate, this legislation will help give
us a sound, factual basis for future policy
decisions.
I must, however, caution those who ex-
pect immediate results from the studies
required by S. 3384. The information ob-
tained through the bill's reporting require-
ments will have to be analyzed carefully.
The policy options that arise from such
analysis will have to be considered in the
light of overall U.S. trade policies, includ-
ing our opposition to unnecessary re-
strictions on international investment
flows. It will be particularly important to
evaluate whether various economic trends,
including higher real estate prices and
absentee ownership of land, are actually
due to foreign investment and whether
they reflect other domestic social and
economic factors.
At a time when government efficiency
is at the front of our people's minds, I am
glad that the Congress has given us an
opportunity to evaluate the efficiency and
effectiveness of this monitoring system
by requiring a report from the Secre-
tary of Agriculture at the end of 1 year.
I hope that that evaluation, which will
coincide with the completion of the study
required by the International Investment
Survey Act, will provide a sound basis for
shaping future Federal efforts in this area.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3384 is Public Law 95-
460, approved October 14.
National Energy Legislation
Statement on Congressional Approval of the
Legislation. October 15, 1978
Eighteen months ago, I said that our
decisions about energy would test the
character of our people and the ability of
our Nation to face its most difficult prob-
lems. Today the Congress has proven that
we can meet that test.
1783
