Dec. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
jure, destroy or remove any feature of this
monument and not to locate or settle upon
any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 1st day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred and seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:09 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Yukon Flats National Monument are print-
ed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 5,
1978.
Outstanding Contributions by
Federal Employees
Memorandum From the President.
December 1, 1978
scientific achievements, and contribu-
tions to the health and well-being of the
American people. Particularly outstand-
ing results have been achieved by per-
sonnel of the Departments of the Air
Force, Navy, and Health, Education,
and Welfare, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, and the National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration.
These results are gratifying. They
incentive, Federal personnel are eager to
prove that given proper motivation and
contribute to the growth of productivity
in Government. It is up to management
to use this great resource and to harness
the energy, creativity, and ingenuity of
those who work in our Government.
I ask all of you, therefore, to provide
personal leadership during the year ahead
in making full and effective use of the
incentive awards authorities to improve
Government productivity. And I ask you
to continue to emphasize to everyone in
your organizations the need for participa-
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart- tion in, and support of, this most impor-
ments and Agencies
On October 19, 1977, I announced a
program designed to motivate Federal
personnel at all levels to help improve
the quality and performance of Govern-
ment. I asked to be advised of exceptional
contributions by both civilian and mili-
tary personnel so that I might send a
personal letter of appreciation to each.
After one full year of operation of this
special recognition program, total tangi-
ble benefits to the Government have ex-
ceeded $210 million. Some 1,380 people,
representing 29 departments and agen-
cies, contributed to changes which saved
the public an amount equal to the average
income taxes of 95,000 Americans.
Equally important, there were benefits
to the Government and the nation to
which no dollar figure can be readily at-
tached-improvements in vital services,
tant effort.
JIMMY CARTER
Visit of Prime Minister Nouira
of Tunisia
Joint Communique. December 1, 1978
At the invitation of President Jimmy
Carter, Prime Minister Hedi Nouira cur-
rently is making an official visit to the
United States. He arrived on November
28 and will depart on December 5.
The Prime Minister, who is accom-
panied by his wife and a delegation which
includes Mr. Mohamed Fitouri, Foreign
Minister, Mr. Hassan Belkhodja, Minis-
ter of Agriculture, and Mr. Mustapha
Zaanouni, Minister of Planning, received
a warm and friendly welcome.
2144
