Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
others. And if I remember right, the aver-
age dairy farm at that time, which was
'76, had a capital investment of $180,000.
The average net income for the family
was $7,000. The average size of the fam-
ily was, I think, five people, which is an
extremely low per capita income. And the
fact was that the dairy farmer could very
well have sold his farm and invested it
at 5-percent interest and made $9,000 in-
come without having to work at all.
So, I don't think the general public yet
realizes how low farm income is, com-
pared to other farm income, for laborers,
and certainly they don't for a farm family
that has a tremendous capital investment.
There's still a wide disparity there that I
hope to help close.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
FARM PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, Ken Root from Okla-
homa City.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll get this one,
and then we'll-
Q. Do you have, following this ques-
tion, in case farm prices started up, say,
like they did in 1973, would there be any
chance that you would cut it off at the
other end by imposing any price controls
if a situation like that reoccurred?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely not; I
would never do that.
I need to go. I have another appoint-
ment. But if you don't object, I would like
for you to come by and let me get an in-
dividual photograph with you before you
leave. I don't have time for other ques-
tions as you come by, just a handshake
and a photograph, and then we'll send
them to you after you get home.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:18 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on September 30.
Fighting in Lebanon
Statement by the President.
September 30, 1978
I have just been reviewing the dan-
gerous situation in Lebanon with Secre-
tary of State Vance.
The fighting today was particularly
destructive and it seemed to be spread-
ing. I was therefore greatly relieved to
learn that President Asad of Syria had
been personally involved in bringing
about a cease-fire, which is holding for
now. I call urgently on all involved to ne-
gotiate a permanent end to the cycle of
confrontations which has gone on far too
long and at such a heavy cost in innocent
lives.
I hope other friends of Lebanon will
join with the United States in efforts to
bring an end to the tragedy in Lebanon
and to assist President Sarkis of Lebanon
in all appropriate ways as he tries to re-
store stability and calm.
Humphrey-Hawkins Full
Employment Legislation
Statement by the President.
September 30, 1978
Today marks the 8th annual dinner of
the Congressional Black Caucus. From its
inception, the caucus has played an in-
strumental role in the development and
passage of legislation benefiting all Ameri-
cans.
Since taking office, I have found the
caucus, under the leadership of Congress-
man Parren Mitchell, to be an extraordi-
narily talented group of legislators, always
having the interests of the Nation and
their constitutents as a primary concern.
For that reason, I have met regularly with
the caucus throughout my Presidency,
1678
