Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
the preservation of human rights. As you
know, the Final Act of the Helsinki agree-
ment was signed by, I think, 35 nations,
including the Soviet Union, voluntarily.
They also, of course, signed the Univer-
sal Declaration of Human Rights as a
member of the United Nations.
Their violation of these agreements is
something that I think is earning the
condemnation of the entire world, all
those who believe that a person should
have a right to emigrate, to live with his
family, to have some possibility for free
speech, to criticize one's own govern-
ment. This is the principle which is on
trial in the Soviet Union. We deplore this
and make our criticism clear to the Soviet
Union, both through diplomatic chan-
nels, through private comments, and in
we are proceeding enthusiastically to
bring about a successful resolution of those
issues. But on matters where we disagree
with the Soviets, because of a difference
of perspective and form of government—
human rights is one example; their un-
warranted intrusion into the African
situation is another-we don't hesitate to
let our displeasure be known.
HUMAN RIGHTS
PETER GRUBER [ZDF Television]. Mr.
President, after being in office for 12
years, if you judge your human rights
policy, don't you think it's counterproduc-
tive?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't.
MR. GRUBER. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that there is
some cases publicly. This is not a unique hardly a national leader in the world who
American attitude. Many people through-
out the world believe in these basic rights.
At the same time, we recognize that we
cannot intrude into the internal affairs of
the Soviet Union. We can't determine
the outcome of the trial. We can't set the
punishment, if any, that might be levied
against Mr. Shcharanskiy, Mr. Ginzburg,
Mr. Orlov, or others who have expressed
themselves and who have tried to mon-
itor the compliance with the Helsinki
agreement.
We've not let this interfere in our
pursuit of cooperation with the Soviet
Union on crucial matters. For instance,
we are negotiating, constantly, terms of a
SALT agreement to limit and even to re-
duce the inventory of atomic weapons. We
are working with the Soviet Union on a
comprehensive test ban. We're trying to
bring about, along with your government
and others, a successful conclusion to the
long stalemated mutual and balanced
force reduction talks in Vienna.
So, where there are matters where we
can cooperate, of mutual advantage to us,
doesn't now have as a constant concern
or consideration the subject of basic hu-
man rights, basic human freedoms,
whether or not one's own citizens con-
demn actions of the government or de-
plore actions of the government, whether
or not the rest of the world looks with
pleasure or displeasure on actions within
a country.
In many areas of the world the recom-
mitment to human rights initiated by us
and many others, I might say, has borne
rich dividends. There's been a strong shift
toward democratic principles in Latin
America. In Indonesia there have been
tens of thousands of people liberated from
prison. I think we've reexamined in our
own country some possible violations of
basic human rights. I think other free
Western democracies have done the same.
And I think the raising of this issue in a
responsible, clear way has been a very
constructive element throughout the
world in ensuring human freedoms in
which we believe so deeply.
1259
