Nov. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
flexible procedures. It now has the op-
portunity to do an effective, responsible
job.
This bill also requires the Commission
to review all of its regulations within the
next 18 months. This provision is an im-
portant contribution to our effort to up-
date outmoded regulations throughout
the Government and eliminate unneces-
sary ones.
This bill also addresses the difficult
problem of exports of products which do
not comply with U.S. safety standards.
While the work that Congress has done in
this area has been generally constructive,
I am concerned that the shipment-by-
shipment notification required by this bill
will impose unnecessary burdens
American exporters, and my administra-
tion will work with Congress to attempt
to reduce these burdens. United States
policy governing the export of hazardous
products has been proliferating on a
piecemeal basis. A number of statutes ap-
plicable to differing types of products ad-
dress the export issue in different ways.
An interagency task force, chaired by
Esther Peterson, my Special Assistant for
Consumer Affairs, has been evaluating
the laws in this area with the goal of de-
veloping a more uniform policy. We ex-
pect to announce recommendations in
this area by the end of the year.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2796 is Public Law 95-
631, approved November 10.
Endangered Species Act
Amendments of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 2899 Into Law.
November 10, 1978
I am signing into law today S. 2899,
the Endangered Species Act Amendments
of 1978.
In addition to providing needed au-
thorization for the endangered species pro-
gram, the bill establishes a special seven-
member Cabinet-level committee. The
Committee will be authorized to exempt
programs and activities of Federal agen-
cies from the requirement not to jeopard-
ize the continued existence of endangered
or threatened species. While I believe that
this new exemption process is not neces-
sary, I hope that as the Committee car-
ries out its responsibilities, it will make the
utmost efforts to protect the existence of
the species inhabiting this planet. In the
past, the act has worked well without this
exemption process, because all agencies
have made efforts to resolve conflicts and,
where necessary, to pursue alternate
courses of action. This consultation and
cooperation should continue under these
new amendments, minimizing the number
of requests for exemptions. Destruction of
the life of an endangered or threatened
species should never be undertaken lightly,
no matter how insignificant the species
may appear today.
I am asking that the Committee mem-
bers be exceedingly cautious in consider-
ing exemptions, and that the exercise of
possible national security exemptions by
the Secretary of Defense be undertaken
only in grave circumstances posing a clear
and immediate threat to national security.
In some ways these amendments im-
prove the Endangered Species Act. The
consultation process will be strengthened;
funds are authorized from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund to purchase
endangered plant habitat; and provisions
for enforcement against commercial vio-
lators of the act are improved. Of course,
the most welcome provision is the reau-
thorization of appropriations for the act,
which expired on September 30, 1978.
I recognize that this has been a difficult
issue. Many Members of Congress have
worked very hard to preserve the essence
2002
