Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
of which we can be proud once again, and
also a nation of which the entire world
can be proud.
There's a great determination, I think,
to have peace. And the change in attitude
and demeanor, the dropping of ancient,
unwarranted demands, the shuffling away
from longstanding hatreds, the forgetting
of four wars in 30 years by the two leaders
of Egypt and Israel was, I think, a part of
a growing sense in the world that things
can be better if people can work together
for a common purpose.
I was Governor of Georgia for 4 years,
and I watched the campaign of Pug Rav-
enel 4 years ago. It was like a breath of
fresh air that swept across the South.
There was a lot of inspiration in it for us.
I never had met Pug Ravenel. I came to
South Carolina early that year to kick off
the campaign of another candidate-
[laughter] Congressman Dorn. And it
was a bad year for the Democratic Party,
because the victor in the primary, because
of a legal technicality, was deprived of the
right to represent the South Carolina
people.
This is not typical of our party. It was
an extra-party thing, legal thing. I don't
have any background in law; I'm not
criticizing what was decided then. But it
was a loss to South Carolina. And there
were a lot of bitter feelings left over from
it.
The supporters of other candidates felt
that the party didn't come back together
quickly enough to repair the divisions that
had been caused, through no one's fault.
Now is a different time, and if we are not
successful in November-I think we will
be-but if we are not successful in No-
vember, the only reason will be that you
didn't grasp this additional opportunity
to have the leadership of this fine young
man and to heal old wounds, as we have
together healed old historical wounds in
the South, and to resolve together to reach
for an element of achievement and height
of accomplishment and greatness of which
I believe Pug Ravenel is capable.
It's nice of you to come tonight and to
make a substantial contribution, and I'm
grateful for your doing it. So is Pug. But
that's not enough. There is probably no
one here—with maybe just a very few ex-
ceptions-who couldn't give much more,
and I'm sure there's no one here who
coudn't go back home and raise 10 times
as much among your own neighbors and
friends who trust you and who would be
willing to make an investment in South
Carolina's future.
4
I hope that you won't be satisfied with
just having done this small thing to help
a man who, in effect, has devoted his last
years paying off old debts and getting
prepared to present his ideas, his hopes,
and his dreams for South Carolina to the
people who live in this State. You know
the formidable opposition he has and the
immense finances that have come in to
help his opponent, not only from South
Carolina but from other States.
I think the financial part is something
that's particularly of interest to you, be-
cause you've been blessed by God with
great financial security, most of you have,
and you can, among your own friends,
help him in that way. But I recognize in
many of you additional elements of lead-
ership that quite often are not adequately
tapped, maybe for your own professional
business, yes. But I think you can take the
next week or 2 weeks, or perhaps a month
or two, and make an investment of your
own great talent and ability in the future
of our country. Organize your own family,
your own block, your own community,
suburb, neighborhood, your own county,
on behalf of Pug Ravenel. Join in with
those who've been active for him in the
past. I need him in Washington.
You've got a superb United States Sen-
ator, Fritz Hollings, there, who helps me
1583
