Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 31
Domestic Bicycle Tire and
Tube Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a
Report. October 30, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
In accordance with section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
decision that import relief for the dom-
estic bicycle tire and tube industry is not
in the national economic interest, and ex-
plaining the reasons for my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
BICYCLE TIRES AND TUBES
As required under section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to Congress setting forth
the action I will take with respect to
bicycle tires and tubes covered by the
affirmative finding on September 1, 1978
of the U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion (USITC) under section 201 (d) (1)
of the Trade Act. As my action differs
from that recommended by the USITC,
I have included the reasons for my deci-
sion.
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202(c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief for the domestic bicycle tire
and tube industry would not be in the na-
tional economic interest for the following
reasons:
(1) The imposition of import relief in
the form of a tariff increase would not be
an effective means to promote the per-
manent adjustment in the domestic in-
dustry. The sole remaining domestic pro-
ducer has the most modern plant avail-
able, and very little can be done to im-
prove current operating efficiency. In
addition, corporate profits are high, and
the profit margin on bicycle tires and
tubes remains respectable in spite of low
capacity utilization levels.
(2) At current profit levels, it is un-
likely that the remaining domestic manu-
facturer will cease producing bicycle tires
and tubes. Should the corporation even-
tually decide to terminate production,
much of the plant's equipment could be
modified to produce other kinds of recrea-
tional tires made by the company.
(3) The relative stability in the do-
mestic producer's market share indicates
that domestic demand is less price sen-
sitive than is import demand. Con-
sequently, its market for domestically-
produced tires and tubes is expected to
remain intact.
(4) It is estimated that any loss in em-
ployment resulting from a denial of im-
port relief would be small, and that those
separated would be eligible for adjust-
ment assistance. The Department of
Labor estimates that the reemployment
prospects are probably fair for potentially
separated workers.
ary.
(5) Import relief would be inflation-
It is estimated that the consumer cost
of the relief recommendation made by the
USITC would be between $4.4 and $7.5
million for the first full year of relief.
(6) The foreign policy consequences of
granting relief measures are adverse. The
world trading community would view this
as a sign of growing protectionist senti-
ment. Moreover, because other petitions
of the industry are now being investi-
gated under the antidumping and coun-
tervailing duty statutes, it would also be
seen as an attempt to harass foreign ex-
porters through duplication of remedies.
(7) A duty increase such as recom-
mended by the USITC will not place
1903
