Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 26
ment to go and enrich themselves by going
into an area of private employment which
would use their influence recently derived
from Government service. It closes the
revolving door that has been so signifi-
cantly abused in the past.
This legislation also establishes a Spe-
cial Office of Government Ethics in the
new Office of Personnel Management,
which was brought about by a revision of
the civil service system of our country.
This bill responds to problems that de-
veloped at the highest level of Govern-
ment in the 1970's.
If in the future there are ever substan-
tial allegations of criminal violations by
the President or the Vice President, by
Members of the Congress [Cabinet] or
senior members of the President's staff, a
Special Prosecutor will be appointed by
a panel made up of U.S. Court of Appeals
judges of the District of Columbia to
prosecute or investigate and see if a prose-
cution is necessary. This Special Prose-
cutor could only be removed on the basis
of extraordinary impropriety or incapac-
ity, which gives the Special Prosecutor in
the future, if needed, a great protection in
carrying out his responsibilities without
interference.
I'm hopeful, of course, that this author-
ity will rarely be needed, but I believe it
is necessary in response to the lessons that
we have learned to the embarrassment of
our country in the past.
Enactment of this legislation would not
have been possible without the outstand-
ing leadership and enthusiastic personal
involvement by Speaker Tip O'Neill. And
I would like to point out too that Con-
gressman George Danielson, the floor
manager of the bill in the House, and
Senator Abe Ribicoff, the floor manager
in the Senate, did truly outstanding jobs
in their successful efforts on behalf of this
legislation. Senator Percy, Senator Robert
Byrd, Senator Case, and Representatives
Pat Schroeder, Richardson Preyer,
Samuel Stratton, James Mann, and
others deserve congratulations for their
excellent work on this bill.
There was a great deal of pressure from
many sources to weaken the provisions of
this ethics legislation. That pressure was
successfully withstood by those that I've
described. I'm very pleased that we've
achieved this milestone in the history of
safeguards against abuse of the public
trust by Government officials.
I believe this act will help to restore
public confidence in the integrity of our
Government, and I think it might serve
as a bellwether or a guide to other ele-
ments of our government at the State and
local level who might wish to imitate what
has been done so well by the Congress
this year.
It's with a great deal of pleasure that
I sign the ethics legislation, which guar-
antees higher standards of performance
and accountability to the public in all the
branches of the Federal Government.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Mr. Speaker, I thank you.
SPEAKER O'NEILL. I recall the first ses-
sion that we ever had, when I had been
designated as Speaker of the House, with
the President of the United States. It was
down in Georgia, and he had four goals.
One of them was an economic stabiliza-
tion package. Secondly was a strong ethics
package. Thirdly was reorganization, and
fourth was an energy package. It took us
a little while to accomplish them all, but
we did do them, and I think we did them
well.
And so, Mr. President, those are the
four goals of the first 2 years. They were
1855
