Nov. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
My mother visited Morocco recently.
King Hassan tells me that Morocco has
recovered from her visit. [Laughter] As a
matter of fact, my mother is a walking
chamber of commerce for Morocco. And
I thought she was the greatest supporter
of Morocco that I knew, until I sat next
to Mrs. Billy Casper. Her husband has
played in 8 [golf] tournaments in Mo-
rocco. They visited Morocco 20 times.
And she says that of all the countries she
has ever visited, it's her favorite.
The history, the customs, the tradition,
the achievements of Morocco are admir-
able in every respect. And it is a great
honor for us to have King Hassan come
and visit here, 11, 12 years since he made
his last visit. The first time he came here
with his own father as a Crown Prince,
and he's brought his oldest son, the
Crown Prince, with him this time.
The last time King Hassan came to
our country, about 12 years ago, the Mid-
dle East was in a time of crisis, indeed
war. On this occasion we are struggling
to prevent a recurrence of that kind of
crisis in the Middle East.
We've made historic progress in recent
months. The outcome of the final nego-
tiations for peace between Egypt and Is-
rael is still in doubt. But one of the
staunch allies and friends of President
Sadat who courageously supported him
when he made his historic journey to
Jerusalem almost exactly 12 months ago
was King Hassan of Morocco. It was not
an easy thing for him to do. He was casti-
gated and criticized by some because he
expressed his friendship and support for
that giant step toward peace. But this
is typical of his leadership.
He's been instrumental in giving us ad-
vice and counsel. Me, as a new President,
I had a lot to learn about the Arab world,
about historical interrelationships, about
the continent of Africa, the prospects for
peace. And in many ways that have never
been revealed, he's been very constructive
in laying a basis for progress that is now
being made.
My wife and the Crown Prince have
been speaking tonight in Spanish. The
Crown Prince is quite fluent; my wife is
still a student. But King Hassan told me
that even in years gone by, the Spanish
language has been very helpful to our Na-
tion. In 1943, as you well know, in a time
of worldwide crisis, President Roosevelt
met with the Prime Minister of Great
Britain, Churchill, in Casablanca.
It was a highly secret meeting. Intelli-
gence revealed their presence there. The
Germans were informed. Fortunately,
they had a Spanish translator in Berlin,
and the information that reached Hitler
was that the President of the United
States and the Prime Minister of Great
Britain were meeting in the White House.
[Laughter] So, although this building was
in danger of being bombed, President
Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill
escaped unscathed.
That's a true story, as a matter of fact,
but a very interesting element from his-
tory shows again that in time of crisis,
the great nation of Morocco was a place
for the resolution of differences and the
laying for groundwork for peace.
We are honored, too, because King
Hassan has been so diligent and so suc-
cessful in providing for his own people
an expanded opportunity for living a
fruitful life. Under his benevolent leader-
ship, the people of Morocco have been
granted constitutional government with
the holding of elections in a very success-
ful way,
the election of a new parliament,
including members of the political oppo-
sition. And this has been done in such a
fine and successful fashion that Morocco
has set, indeed, an example for other na-
tions to emulate.
The tremendous natural wealth of
2034
