Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 7
But we can't guarantee success in any
of these instances, including the Middle
East or Cyprus. But we're doing the best
we can, and I think to some degree just
stabilizing the situation and continuing
the negotiations is constructive.
I'll try to keep my other answers
briefer.
BILLY CARTER
Q. Could I shift gears, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
the documents with him. But I've only
gotten that from the press. I've never
asked either Kirbo or Billy about that.
U.S.-MEXICAN RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, could I ask you about
the Mexican policy that you have under
development now? I understand you want
to discuss immigration and some other
things that have to do with our dealings
with the Mexican Government. Can you
tell us a little bit about how that's
Q. About 6 weeks ago your brother ap- progressing and what you hope to
peared before an Atlanta grand jury that
was investigating the Lance affair. And
he later told reporters he'd invoked the
fifth amendment two or three times and
said-I don't know what his-there are
various interpretations of his mood at the
time-but he called it a Republican,
Yankee-inspired investigation. Have you
any general reaction to this, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Not that I would like
to express. [Laughter] I might say that I
promised the American people that I
would stay completely aloof from my own
business and so forth. I have never dis-
cussed this with Billy, although I talk to
him frequently about other things, but he
understands my commitment. And any
dealing with Carter's Warehouse, from
my point of view, is done by Mr. Kirbo,
and he'll make any statement that's ap-
propriate. But I don't care to comment
on it.
Q. Could you comment on his taking
the fifth, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't care to do
that, either.
I've read the news reports, and Billy's
explanation was that he was asked by the
grand jury to bring the records for a cer-
tain date, a period of time, and that when
questions were asked of him about finan-
cial details outside that period of time, he
refused to answer because he did not have
accomplish?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. In preparation
for my visit to Mexico in February, the
National Security Council has been as-
sessing all the facets of our Mexican pol-
icy-political, economic, and so forth.
We began this during the visit of Presi-
dent López Portillo to our country. He
was the first foreign visitor that I ever
had. And we set up kind of a task force
Treasury Department, the Attorney Gen-
from the Commerce Department, the
eral's office, and Defense and Agriculture
and so forth, and they have met at the
sub-Cabinet level, at the Assistant Secre-
tary level on several occasions to explore
potential progress between ourselves and
Mexico.
I consider our relationship with Mex-
ico to be as important as any other that
we have, and my relationship with Presi-
dent López Portillo has been very good.
We've also had negotiations with them
earlier this year on the purchase or pric-
ing of natural gas and, perhaps, even-
tually oil, as those fields are developed.
Because of the uncertainty of congres-
sional action on the energy legislation,
they were postponed, with agreement on
both sides, until after the Congress ad-
journed. Those will be recommenced,
and I would guess we'll do some back-
ground work on that before I arrive in
2179
