Dec. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Emergency Board To Investigate
an Airline Labor Dispute
Appointment of One Member and Announce-
ment of Extension of the Deadline for the
Board's Report. December 4, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of a new member of the Wien
Air Alaska emergency board, and an ex-
tension of the time within which the
board must report on the dispute.
The President appointed Laurence
Seibel, a Washington attorney and labor
dispute arbitrator, to replace John Gentry,
who resigned from the board. Paul Guth-
rie, already a member of the board, will
replace Gentry as Chairman.
The deadline for the board's report is
extended from December 2, 1978, to Jan-
uary 15, 1979.
Airplane Crash in Alaska
Statement on the Incident Involving Senator
and Mrs. Ted Stevens of Alaska and Others.
December 5, 1978
Rosalynn and I were shocked to learn
of the tragic plane crash in Alaska yester-
day which claimed the lives of five people,
including Mrs. Ted Stevens. We join the
families of Senator Stevens and Tony
Motley in praying for their quick recov-
ery, and we extend to Senator Stevens'
family and the families of Richard Sykes,
Richard Church, Joe Rudd, and Clarence
Kramer our deepest sympathies for their
loss.
Hubert H. Humphrey
North-South Scholarship
Program
Remarks at a White House Meeting on the
Program. December 5, 1978
First of all, let me say that I and Sen-
ator Muriel Humphrey, John Reinhardt,
and others are very delighted to have you
here this afternoon for what I believe is
the initiation of a very precious and valu-
able new program for our own country.
It's completely appropriate that the
program should have been conceived and
named because of and after Senator Hu-
bert Humphrey. He always exemplified
what this program is supposed to accom-
plish, that is, a deep belief in the human
spirit, the value of human progress, hope
in the face of at least partial discourage-
ment and sometimes even despair, the
breaking down of barriers that exist be-
tween people because of difference in
heritage or race or country of origin or
formal opportunity of their families.
Senator Humphrey also believed that
the crucial element in the growth of a
person was in education, formal educa-
tion, of course, but the stretching of one's
mind and heart in every conceivable way.
I think we all realize that to the limit of
his great ability, he strove for better inter-
end of wars and the prevention of war.
national understanding, for peace, for the
I believe that our country has a great
deal to offer that has not yet been ac-
cepted by people from other nations. I've
said on many occasions that in years gone
by I always dreaded seeing the United
Nations General Assembly convene, be-
cause our country was the target of every
attack and the butt of every joke from 100
2158
