Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Thank you very much. Help us all the Michigan chose a Democrat to be Gov-
way I've said.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. from
the steps of the Federal Hall National Memo-
rial. In his opening remarks, he referred to New
York Secretary of State Mario M. Cuomo,
Democratic candidate for Lieutenant Governor.
Following his remarks, the President at-
tended a fundraising luncheon for Governor
Carey at the Arthur Krim residence.
While at the Krim residence, the President
also met with Prime Minister Menahem Begin
of Israel and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance.
Prime Minister Begin was in New York City
to receive an award from the New York Coun-
cil of Churches.
Flint, Michigan
Remarks at a "Get Out the Vote" Rally.
November 2, 1978
Senator Don Riegle; Congressman Dale
Kildee; Speaker Bobby Crim; Mayor
Rutherford; your next United States Sen-
ator, Carl Levin; your next Governor, Bill
Fitzgerald; and my good friends from
Flint, Michigan:
It is true that almost exactly 2 years
ago, at the end of a long 2-year campaign
in all 50 States, Vice President Mondale
and I chose this auditorium to close our
campaign effort. We came here for sound
reasons. Flint is a famous community, the
birthplace of one of our greatest corpora-
tions-the greatest on Earth, perhaps―
the epitome of what it means to be an
honest, decent, hard-working American,
the birthplace of enlightened labor lead-
ership, and a place which epitomizes in
the finest way what our Nation is, what
our Nation has been, what our Nation can
be in the future.
It was mentioned that 1960 was the
year when John Kennedy was elected
President and was the last year that
ernor.
In 1960 two-thirds of the American
people went to the polls the first week in
November to vote. The projections are
that next week, two-thirds of the Ameri-
can people will not vote. This rally today
is an opportunity for me as President of
all the people of our country, Democrats
and Republicans, to remind you of the
great responsibility that we as Americans
have to demonstrate that we are able to
manage our own affairs, to run our own
government, to set our own standards, to
form a team, and to make a great nation
even greater in the future.
Will you help me next week by electing
this Democratic ticket and going out to
vote? [Applause]
I am going to breathe a sigh of relief
when Carl Levin comes to Washington as
your new United States Senator.
There are many problems which I have
as President of our great country. One is
to fight inflation, which has been hanging
over our head and putting a burden on the
working people of this country for the last
10 years. This is not an easy assignment. It
requires cooperation from labor, from bus-
iness, from agriculture, from the private
homeowner. It also requires the most in-
tense cooperation from your own elected
leadership.
Carl Levin's opponent has already dis-
counted the effort to fight inflation. I be-
lieve that you want a United States Sen-
ator that will help me help you control
inflation. Is that right? [Applause] Very
good.
I worked hard for 2 years to be elected
to this office I hold, because I wanted to
be President of the United States. I cast
my lot, when not 1 percent of the Ameri-
can people had ever heard my name, with
workers in factory shift lines, with people
on street corners, with elderly, retired citi-
zens, with young students, with those who
1932
