Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 23
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I think I might take just a few min-
utes to outline some of my present con-
cerns and plans, and then spend all the
time available answering your individual
questions. As Rosalynn may have told you,
we've enjoyed this responsibility that the
American people have given us. We have
a good, sound, and stable family life. We
have had more time together by far than
when I was campaigning and certainly as
much as we had while I was Governor of
Georgia. We have a good partnership be-
tween her and me, and my whole family
works on occasion for ceremonial affairs,
including my mother and my sons as well,
and their wives.
I might point out to you that we've had
a wide range of challenging tasks since I
have been in the White House. We've
put forward some very difficult decisions
for Congress to make in domestic and in
foreign affairs, and I think the Congress
has responded superbly.
In almost every highly controversial
matter, in my opinion, the Congress has
ultimately made the right decision. Some
of those decisions were difficult for them
because of the complexity and the disputes
that arise, particularly in the field of en-
ergy legislation, for instance, on domestic
affairs.
I don't think we've ever had a more
complicated, far-reaching, highly de-
bated and disputed bill in the history of
the Congress than this particular package
of legislation. My hope and my expecta-
tion is that next week we will have a suc-
cessful vote on the natural gas bill, which
is the heart of the energy package. The
other three measures have already been
passed relatively easily, relative to the
natural gas bill, through the conference
committees, and I think the Senate and
the House would act on them expeditious-
ly. We have one item concerning oil taxa-
tion that may come later or perhaps even
this year.
The Congress gave me full authority to
reorganize the Government under the re-
organization act, and we've had unani-
mous acceptance by the Congress for
every plan we put forward; quite a dra-
matic change from previous administra-
tions, even Democratic Presidents, when
about one out of three were accepted-
the other two were rejected by Congress.
But we learned from past mistakes that
had been made. We've worked very
harmoniously with the Congress, and the
third reorganization plan of this year has
just passed the Congress, almost unani-
mously, this week.
We've tried to deal effectively with
some of the major problems that I in-
herited. I won't go into detail about them.
A year ago, certainly 2 years ago, the over-
riding concern was about employment.
We had about 10 million Americans who
could not find a full-time job; between 7
and 8 million who had no jobs at all-
8 percent unemployment rate, it was in-
creasing rapidly during the last 8 years.
And we've turned that corner now. We
have had a net increase of 6 million jobs
in the country since I've been in office.
And the unemployment rate now, as you
know, is slightly below 6 percent, and a
very
stable reduction. This has been a very
good achievement.
We've inherited 10 years of inflation
that's of great concern to us now. I'd say
on the domestic scene, this is a matter of
most concern to the American people, to
the political figures in our government
structure at all levels, and also to me per-
sonally as President.
We're trying to deal with this effec-
tively. One way is to make government
more efficient, to hold down budget defi-
cits. I'm determined to work toward a
balanced budget as rapidly as possible.
1589
