Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
racies might have some beneficial aspects
of democratic principles in which we be-
lieve so deeply.
Thank you.
U.S. SPACE ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gerhard
Schofer. I'm a civil servant. My question
is this: After the completion of the space
shuttle project, do the U.S. plan further
Moon missions and landings?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't have any
specific plans now for additional manned
missions to the Moon nor to the other
planets. We have an ongoing program,
however, of unmanned missiles to the
outer planets as well as to the Moon.
I think these are adequate. We have
proven our capability to go to the Moon.
We still have that capability, of course.
We now are trying to make our explora-
tions into space, into outer space, much
more efficient as far as the dollars spent
compared to the results obtained. And
our manned space flights will be primarily
restricted to the increasing utilization of
the space shuttle.
We hope to make these space flights
using the shuttle a fairly routine proce-
dure, and we hope that they might be
concentrating upon those aspects of space
flight that bring more direct benefits to
the people here on Earth.
I think the scientific explorations, there-
fore, can basically be performed by in-
struments carried on our space vehicles,
and the manned space flights will be
closer in to Earth, using the space shuttle
itself.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Eberhard
Behrend. I'm a scientist, and my question
is this: Why has America, from the ex-
periences of the Vietnam war, drawn the
conclusion to withdraw the active support
of freedom fighters and opposition groups
in totalitarian parts of the world instead
of actively supporting them and looking
for a nonmilitary support of such resist-
ance groups in the oppressed parts of the
world?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a difficult ques-
tion to answer. I think that I share the
opinion of the American public that we
should not again become involved in a
military way in the internal affairs of an-
other country unless our own security is
directly threatened.
We do support the maintenance of
peace. We do this through multilateral or-
ganizations like the United Nations,
through multilateral teams such as we've
just formed and with which we've had
some success in Namibia, where we co-
operated with the Federal Republic of
Germany, with France, Great Britain, and
with Canada. And on some occasions we
work just with one other nation primarily,
as is presently the case in Rhodesia,
where we and the British are trying to
use our good offices to bring about a
peaceful resolution there.
But I don't contemplate, short of a
direct threat to the security of my own
Nation, the sending of troops to another
country to solve an internal conflict as we
did in Vietnam in the recent past.
This is not an abandonment of the
principles on which our Nation was
founded and which we believe. We have
stood staunch in the support for basic
human rights, and I think the recent
world attention focused upon these viola-
tions in different countries has been a
testimony to the fact that the Western
democratic system and our belief in free-
dom is letting its voice be heard and its
influence be felt. But just because we
don't send troops as we did in Vietnam
does not mean that we've abandoned
freedom or that we will sit back and let
local conflicts bring suffering upon those
1303
