Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 8
election results will come in through the
television broadcasts.
I will go from here to the White House,
and I will be on the telephone a large
part of the night calling and congratulat-
ing the winners and calling and consoling
the losers. I hope we won't have any Dem-
ocrats who are losers.
I might say this in closing: You are for-
tunate in many ways in coming to this
area immediately adjacent to Washington,
D.C., our National Capital. I hope that
while you are here you will enjoy your-
selves, because Americans like to enjoy
themselves as well.
There are many exciting places for you
to visit, and of course, you can learn about
the history of our Nation, of which we are,
of course, very proud. But I think the
most important thing which you will learn
is how the family with whom you stay
lives, what they believe, what they are,
what their interrelationships are with their
neighbors, and how grateful they are to
make new neighbors now across the ocean,
those of you who have come here from
Germany.
We are very, very grateful to have you.
We've exchanged visits, as you know, with
your Chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, and
his wife. They're very good friends of my
wife, Rosalynn. And this additional ex-
change will be the cement that ties your
great democracy even closer with our
own.
Thank you very much for coming. Wel-
come. And now I would like to walk
down the aisle and shake hands with each
of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
7 p.m. on board the airplane which had
brought the Friendship Force members to
Dulles International Airport, Va. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to German Ambassa-
dor to the United States Berndt von Staden
and Max Schmeling, former heavyweight box-
ing champion and chairman of the German
committee of the Friendship Force.
White House Forum on Inflation
Question-and-Answer Session by Telephone
With Participants in the Forum in Hartford,
Connecticut. November 8, 1978
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Bob.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Can you hear
us all right?
THE PRESIDENT. I hear you fine, yes.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Mr. President,
we're in, as you know, in Hartford, Con-
necticut, and Charlie Schultze, Fred
Kahn, Ray Marshall, Esther Peterson,
Lee Kling, and myself are here for our sec-
ond inflation forum, much the same for-
mat we had in St. Louis.
Before we begin, Mr. President, I want
to tell you that I was very brief when I
opened this meeting, and I asked every-
one to be exceedingly brief. And Schultze
told this crowd that I didn't have the
nerve to say that to you. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, I do want to say to you that we
were all a little lengthy in St. Louis, even
including our Washington call. [Laugh-
ter] So, now I've shown this crowd I'm
not afraid to say that to you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I'll begin with the first question. The
first question will be asked of you, Mr.
President by Johnny Driscoll, whom you
know, who's president of the Connecticut
State Labor Council, AFL-CIO.
Mr. President, before he takes his ques-
tion to you, would you make such state-
ment as you would care to make?
THE PRESIDENT. Bob, you've taken up
so much time telling me to be brief, I
think I'll go just right directly to the ques-
tion. [Laughter]
John Driscoll, go ahead.
MR. DRISCOLL. Mr. President, we sym-
pathize with you in the tremendous prob-
lem that you're trying to deal with in the
matter of inflation. And I'm very pleased
1967
