July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
PRESIDENT PARK OF THE REPUBLIC OF
KOREA
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. There is
the press speculation in Japan and South
Korea that you would invite General Park
Chung Hee of South Korea to Washing-
ton in next January for talks. Could you
comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any
invitation that is planned for President
Park. I would certainly have no objection
to meeting him, but we have not extended
an invitation to him so far as I know.
U.S. SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us how
you're leaning on the sale of the Dresser
equipment to the Soviet Union, and what
are some of the factors involved in the de-
cision?
THE PRESIDENT. We have taken all the
action that I intend to take for the time
being. We terminated the sale of a very
advanced computer to the Soviet Union-
roughly a $6 to $7 million sale-which
would have provided a quantum jump
in computer capability, multiplying the
speed of the computer, I think, 20-fold.
And this was supposed to have been
bought by TASS, one of the Soviet news
agencies, to, I think, handle the require-
ments for the 1980 Olympics. This was
far in excess of what they needed for that
purpose.
And I've put under the control agree-
ment in our country, where different
Government agencies assess the need for
sales equipment that would result in in-
creased oil production in the Soviet
Union. On the particular case to which
you refer, I have not cancelled that.
This sale of technology—the Germans
will install it—was approved, I think, the
last day of May, before we reassessed this
proposal. There is still pending one ele-
ment of this sale, some kind of arc weld-
ing, that I have not yet approved. I've not
decided what to do about it.
AMBASSADOR YOUNG
Q. Mr. President, News Secretary
Powell has indicated that in the future
when U.N. Ambassador Young speaks
out on issues such as human rights, that
perhaps this will be a subject for discussion
at the White House beforehand, perhaps
indicating that he might require your
prior approval on a number of topics.
Will this be the case?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think so. I
trust Andy to realize that he will be more
careful in the future. It would be almost
a full-time job for me if I tried to assess―
[laughter] if I tried to assess every state-
ment that Andy Young and other Ambas-
sadors make, or other officials who have
the same opportunity to consult directly
with the press.
And I don't intend to get into the cen-
soring business. I have to trust the sound
judgment of those-I've made mistakes
myself, and I've tried to correct them in
the future. I think in this particular case
Andy made a mistake. And I think he'll
try to correct it on his own initiative.
THE WILMINGTON 10
Q. Mr. President, members of your ad-
ministration, including yourself, have of-
ten cited the findings of Amnesty Interna-
tional with regard to political prisoners in
other countries. Why is it, then, that you
do not accept the group's finding with
respect to Reverend Chavis and the Wil-
mington 10? And also, sir, are you not
aware or concerned that what is called by
some black leaders a dichotomy in your
human rights policy with respect to for-
eign dissidents and with respect to human
rights in this country is threatening your
black constituency?
1330
