Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
year
I'm now preparing the 1980 fiscal
budget. I haven't had a pleasant session
yet. [Laughter] And I haven't even met
with my agency leaders, nor Cabinet
members. I've been meeting with my own
staff and the directors of the Office of
Management and Budget.
The choices that I have to make are
very narrow in their scope, very difficult,
and every day's session demonstrates
vividly that some very benevolent and
needy special interest group or some pow-
erful political force is not going to be
pleased with the budget decisions that I
am already making in a tentative form. I
think, however, that each one of those
interest groups, no matter how diverse
they might be in character, will be bene-
fited by controlling inflation more than
they would with a few million dollars' or
hundreds of millions of dollars' extra allo-
cation in the 1980 fiscal year budget.
We've already made some progress. In
1975 the Federal deficit was 4½ percent
of our gross national product. In 1980,
calendar year, the Federal deficit will be
1 percent of our gross national product.
And the progress that we are making is
steady. It's tenacious. It's a deep com-
mitment. We have decided to hold down
Federal Government employment. I think
we've had good response from the admin-
istrators of our Government.
We have a new Inspectors General bill
which will continue our struggle against
illegalities,
illegalities, improprieties, and corrup-
tion in government. This has not been a
pleasant nor an easy task. Some of our
efforts have been highly publicized-in
the General Services Administration,
Small Business Administration, and
others. But we are eagerly moving now,
not only to detect and reveal and to pun-
ish those who are violating proprieties of
administration but also to stop illegal
practices in their tracks and to make sure
that every administrator, no matter how
subordinate he or she might be, is equally
as dedicated as the President or the ad-
ministrator of a major agency or the At-
torney General.
The prevention of corruption and waste
is much more effective a way to address it
than to let it happen and then punish
those who were guilty.
We have now a good basis for an energy
policy. We're trying to cut down present
and future imports of oil. I think you will
see a substantial improvement in 1979 of
our balance-of-trade deficit. We are lay-
ing the groundwork for even greater suc-
cess in the future.
We've got an excellent interrelation-
ship with our major trading partners. Our
growth rate will be sustained at a moder-
ate level, not as high as it has been in the
last few years, but on the same basis,
I met with about 1,200 of the key roughly, as our major trading allies, who
leaders in the Federal Government this
week to let them realize that when we
have limited dollars, limited personnel,
we have to make each dollar and each
person and their influence be more effec-
tive. You can't educate a child with waste,
with corruption, nor inefficiency. You
can't feed a hungry person with waste,
corruption, or inefficiency. You can't
build a highway or guarantee housing
housing
construction with waste, corruption, or
inefficiency.
have had a much slower growth rate in
the past.
We have had to address much more
closely the proprieties of government and
also the priorities of government, what
our obligations are, what is proper and
decent and fair on the one hand, and in
addressing limited resources for the bene-
fit of all to make sure that we put the em-
phasis on those that are most important.
We've had superb response from the
business leaders of our country. I think
2051
