Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 22
He's a man who's been through a polit-
ical campaign and lost. I ran for Gov-
ernor in 1966 and I lost. And my loss re-
sulted eventually in Lester Maddox being
Governor of Georgia. And I felt like it
was a setback for me and Georgia and
the South, without any criticism of him.
But I think there are some things about
South Carolina that can be improved,
politically speaking, not in the Demo-
cratic Party, but in this election coming
up.
I think this is a time for inspiration
in our country and in this particular cam-
paign. We need to forget about some
things in the past. It's time we had two
United States Senators from South Caro-
lina who vote yes for matters of impor-
tance, who are willing to invest in people,
who are concerned about raising stand-
ards, not lowering standards.
Pug Ravenel is a man who believes in
a strong military defense; so do I. It's my
profession, the only profession I ever had,
except farming. But I see very clearly, as
does he, that a strong defense means more
than just airplanes and tanks and atomic
missiles and ships. The strength of a na-
tion also rests in the spirit of its people,
in ideals that don't change, in beliefs that
are realized, in trust in government, in
the search for peace, repairing damage
with other nations, trusting other people,
setting the standard, raising a banner of
human rights. These kinds of things are
what make a nation great within and
also make a nation great and strong in
international affairs. And we need candi-
dates who become public officials who
base their own strength, their own in-
fluence, their own decisions, their own
wisdom, on the folks back home, who
don't get separated from them, and who
try to heal differences and not create new
differences.
We've still got some problems in Wash-
ington that need solving. We're making
good progress on energy, good progress on
civil service, but there are still some ways
in which the people of this country, in-
cluding you, are getting cheated, and I
don't like it. I would like to have Pug
Ravenel, Jack Bass, other Congressmen,
Fritz Hollings, help me with it.
I'll just give you one example, because
it's coming up for a decision soon and
it's a tough battle, and that is inflation.
Inflation robs us all, saps away our
strength, particularly those who have fixed
incomes or a small savings account or who
live on a welfare payment or a pension.
It also hurts our Nation's reputation in
the world and takes away some of that
greatness and strength that I just talked
about.
The Congress can do a lot of things.
We're trying to get the budget balanced.
I believe in it. When I was elected in '76,
the deficit was in the high sixties of bil-
lions of dollars. In my first budget, I cut
it down to $50 billion. This year the Con-
in '79, will turn out a budget, along
gress,
with me, of about $40 billion. I hope next
year to have one down in the thirties of
billions of dollars. We're trying to bring
it down, but still give people good serv-
ices.
We are trying to make our system more
competitive and do away with the dep-
rivation of people brought about by a
twisting of the free enterprise system. We
are going to soon pass airline deregulation
to let there be competition for a change
in air travel.
One of the things that presses on me
is a problem with hospital cost contain-
ment. There's not anybody here in this au-
dience who's not directly affected by the
cost of medical care. And this is one of
the most serious problems there is. Now,
as you know, hospitals, particularly the
private hospitals, are quite often owned
and managed by the same people who
decide whether or not you go in the
hospital, how long you stay, what treat-
1587
