Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 17
to the days ahead with an added deter-
mination to pursue the noble goal of
peace.
Your able assistants spared no effort to
bring out this happy conclusion. We ap-
preciate their spirit and dedication. Our
hosts at Camp David and the State of
Maryland were most generous and hos-
pitable. To each one of them and to all
those who are watching this great event,
I say thank you.
Let us join in a prayer to God Almighty
to guide our path. Let us pledge to make
the spirit of Camp David a new chapter
in the history of our nations.
Thank you, Mr. President.
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. Mr. President
of the United States, Mr. President of the
Arab Republic of Egypt, ladies and gen-
tlemen:
The Camp David conference should be
renamed. It was the Jimmy Carter con-
ference. [Laughter]
The President undertook an initiative
most imaginative in our time and brought
President Sadat and myself and our col-
leagues and friends and advisers together
under one roof. In itself, it was a great
achievement. But the President took a
great risk for himself and did it with great
civil courage. And it was a famous French
field commander who said that it is much
more difficult to show civil courage than
military courage.
And the President worked. As far as my
historic experience is concerned, I think
that he worked harder than our fore-
fathers did in Egypt building the pyra-
mids. [Laughter]
Yes, indeed, he worked day and night,
and so did we [laughter]
PRESIDENT CARTER. Amen.
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. Day and night.
We used to go to bed at Camp David be-
tween 3 and 4 o'clock in the morning,
arise, as we are used to since our boyhood,
between 5 and 6, and continue working.
The President showed interest in every
section, every paragraph, every sentence,
every word, every letter-[laughter]-of
the framework agreements.
We had some difficult moments-as
usually there are some crises in negotia-
tions, as usually somebody gives a hint
that perhaps he would like to pick up and
go home. [Laughter] It's all usual. But ul-
timately, ladies and gentlemen, the Presi-
dent of the United States won the day.
And peace now celebrates a great victory
for the nations of Egypt and Israel and for
all mankind.
Mr. President, we, the Israelis, thank
you from the bottom of our hearts for all
you have done for the sake of peace, for
which we prayed and yearned more than
30 years. The Jewish people suffered
much, too much. And, therefore, peace to
us is a striving, coming innermost from
our heart and soul.
Now, when I came here to the Camp
David conference, I said, perhaps as a re-
sult of our work, one day people will, in
every corner of the world, be able to say,
Habemus pacem, in the spirit of these
days. Can we say so tonight? Not yet. We
still have to go a road until my friend
President Sadat and I sign the peace
treaties.
We promised each other that we shall
do so within 3 months. Mr. President [re-
ferring to President Sadat], tonight, at
this celebration of the great historic event,
let us promise each other that we shall do
it earlier than within 3 months.
Mr. President, you inscribed your name
forever in the history of two ancient civi-
lized peoples, the people of Egypt and the
people of Israel. Thank you, Mr.
President.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you very
much.
1521
