Oct. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
hope that the two frameworks will serve
as a solid foundation for a comprehensive
peace to be built in good faith by all
parties.
We came here with good faith and
earnest hope. We also came here deter-
mined to devote all the necessary time and
energy to achieve our goals. We sincerely
hope that our coming negotiations will be
another success to be added to the
achievement of Camp David.
We should encourage other Arab par-
ties to join with us in this great pursuit.
We also hope to continue our joint effort
until peace prevails throughout the area.
My colleagues and I are looking for-
ward to a very fruitful cooperation with
our good friend, Secretary Vance, and his
assistants.
ERNESTINE FRIEDL, of Durham, N.C., a profes-
sor of anthropology at Duke University;
WALTER E. MASSEY, of Providence, R.I., dean
of the college and professor of physics at
Brown University;
DAVID V. RAGONE, of Ann Arbor, Mich., dean
of the College of Engineering at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, an expert in metallurgi-
cal engineering;
EDWIN E. SALPETER, of Ithaca, N.Y., the
James Gilbert White Professor of Physical
Sciences at Cornell University, an expert in
astrophysics;
CHARLES P. SLICHTER, of Champaign, Ill., pro-
fessor of physics and in the Center for Ad-
vanced Study, Loomis Laboratory of Phy-
sics, at the University of Illinois.
Pension Benefit Guaranty
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:02 a.m. in Corporation
the East Room at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
State Cyrus R. Vance, head of the U.S. delega-
tion to the negotiations.
Following the ceremony, the U.S., Egyptian,
and Israeli delegations proceeded to Blair
House for the first working session.
National Science Board
Nomination of Seven Members.
October 12, 1978
The President today announced seven
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Science Board
for terms expiring May 10, 1984. They
are:
LEWIS M. BRANSCOMB, of Armonk, N.Y., vice
president and chief scientist for IBM Corp.,
former Director of the National Bureau of
Standards, and an expert in atomic physics;
EUGENE H. COTA-ROBLES, of Santa Cruz,
Calif., academic vice chancellor and profes-
sor of biology at the University of California
at Santa Cruz, an expert in bacteriology and
microbiology;
Appointment of Three Members of the
Advisory Committee. October 12, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of three persons as members
of the Advisory Committee to the Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation for
terms expiring February 19, 1981. They
are:
RICHARD H. FAY, a Washington, D.C., attorney
who deals with Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act (ERISA) and Federal
taxation problems, and a former legislative
assistant to several Senators and Congress-
men;
DAN M. MCGILL, of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., chair-
man of the insurance department at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, chairman of the
Pension Research Council, and chairman of
the governing board of the Leonard Davis
Institute of Health Economics;
JOHN F. TOMAYKO, of Bethel Park, Pa., as-
sistant to the president of the United Steel-
workers of America, where he has worked on
the negotiation and development of various
pension and benefits plans.
1760
