Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dispute about a particular drawing of a
line, or a phased withdrawal, or some-
thing of that kind that could not be re-
solved at the Foreign Minister or dele-
gate level, then I would get involved if
necessary.
I wouldn't want to see the talks break
down because of any timidity on my part.
I consider it to be one of the most impor-
tant responsibilities that I have. I would
guess, though, that the negotiations will
be carried on at a fairly high level, below
the President and Prime Minister level.
I understand from Prime Minister Be-
gin that the leader of his delegation will
be Foreign Minister Dayan. I don't know
yet who will head the Egyptian delega-
tion, and I've not yet decided on the
American delegation leader. But it'll be
at a fairly high level.
And the principles for settling the
Sinai disagreements have all been re-
solved. Now the details, which I don't
think are going to be highly controversial,
are the only things remaining to be re-
solved. The exact decision of whether a
particular road intersection or a hilltop
would be at the first withdrawal line,
those are the kind of things that would be
settled. And I believe we have a good
relationship between the two leaders that
wouldn't cause a deterioration in the ne-
gotiations.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. I enjoyed it.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-seventh news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Executive Order 12085. September 28, 1978
CREATING AN EMERGENCY BOARD TO IN-
VESTIGATE A DISPUTE BETWEEN THE
NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY AND CERTAIN OF ITS EM-
PLOYEES
A dispute exists between the Norfolk
and Western Railway Company and cer-
tain of its employees represented by the
Brotherhood of Railway, Airline and
Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Ex-
press and Station Employes, a labor or-
ganization;
adjusted under the provisions of the Rail-
This dispute has not heretofore been
way Labor Act, as amended; and
This dispute, in the judgment of the
National Mediation Board, threatens
substantially to interrupt interstate com-
merce to a degree such as to deprive a
section of the country of essential trans-
portation service:
Now, THEREFORE, by the authority
vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160),
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Establishment of Board. There
is established a board of three members to
be appointed by the President to investi-
gate this dispute. No member of the
board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise
interested in any organization of railroad
employees or any carrier.
1-102. Report. The board shall report
its finding to the President with respect to
the dispute within 30 days from the date
of this Order.
1-103. Maintaining Conditions. As pro-
vided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor
1662
