Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
sure that most of them, all of them-as
are you and I and everyone here—really
want to do a good job. And there might
be at times a lack of communication or
a lack of cooperation that's inadvertent.
And sometimes a Governor and the may-
ors in a State can have a very fine and
mutually constructive working relation-
ship, because they use a certain technique
or a certain attitude, and another Gover-
nor may not be aware of this.
So, if you would work through Jack
Watson and directly with me before Feb-
ruary, I'll put that at the top of my pri-
ority-near the top of my priority at
least-and work with the Governors to
ensure that there is a full partnership in-
cluding the State governments. I'd be
glad to do this.
Tom.
Q. Mr. President, we've always appre-
ciated your willingness to permit us to
have input into programs that are being
developed. I think this year's going to be
very critical, because we have pledged to
you that we will support the efforts
against inflation, and we'll work with
you in taking our fair share of cuts.
My question is, do you have some mecha-
nism by which we can offer input, with
which we can determine our own priori-
ties as to which programs we think ought
to be cut?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the
mechanisms, obviously, is this session this
morning. Bo Cutter is the primary one in
OMB, Office of Management and Budg-
et, that works with me as I make every
decision about what will be in the budget.
In fact, I would guess that between now
and the time the budget goes to the print-
ers, that I will never have a budget ses-
sion without Bo Cutter being present.
And also, of course, Jack Watson is avail-
able to work directly with you, and he at-
tends all those sessions as well. Stu Eizen-
stat is the same. You know all these
people very, very well.
I think you are right, Tom. In a time
of budget restraint, as we face clearly
now, cooperation is much more advanta-
geous than even in normal times. And I
think that as we evolved the national ur-
ban policy this past year, there was a sur-
prising degree of approval of it, after it
was concluded, out of all proportion to
the new Federal programs or even the
new money spent, because everybody felt
that it was evolved in cooperation and
that we recognized fiscal restraint. And
the onerous things about existing Federal
programs were identified to be elimi-
nated, and how they could be made effi-
cient was also clearly described.
So, as I make decisions on domestic
affairs, not only including direct aid and
programs to cities but also the more gen-
eral ones involving welfare, health, edu-
transportation, nothing could
cation, transportation,
benefit me more than to have direct
your
input. So, I would say, through my do-
mestic staff, Stu Eizenstat, Jack Watson,
more particularly, and the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, and directly with
me through all those mechanisms-we
are very eager to have your input.
Maybe one more question or comment,
then I'll have to go.
Q. Mr. President, the urban impact
analysis potentially, I think, is one of the
most powerful friends that the cities could
have. At what time will we be able to see
those analyses, since they come from the
different agencies, and will they extend
changes in existing programs, since prob-
not only to new programs but to major
ably there won't be too many new pro-
grams, according to your own words?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they apply both
to new programs and also to changes in
existing programs.
Jack, you might answer the question as
far as the time.
2083
