Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
ment appointments and resulting conver-
sions to career-conditional positions.
I am concerned with the wide disparity
between agencies in the utilization of Vet-
erans readjustment and resulting career-
conditional conversion appointments.
While some agencies have done a com-
mendable job others have virtually ig-
nored the Veterans readjustment and
career-conditional appointment program.
Access to Federal employment can be en-
hanced for Vietnam-era and disabled
Veterans with fuller utilization of the
Veterans readjustment appointment au-
thority outlined in 38 U.S.C. section 2014.
I have directed the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission to contact each
agency with a request for a specific plan
of action to include goals and timetables
for the implementation of the Veterans re-
adjustment program. I expect your full
cooperation on this matter.
JIMMY CARTER
Veterans' Federal Coordinating
Committee
Memorandum From the President.
October 10, 1978
Memorandum for the Secretary of De-
fense, the Attorney General, the Secretary
of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, the Administrator of Veterans Af-
fairs, the Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission, the Director of the Com-
munity Services Administration
We have recently completed an inter-
agency policy review of Federal programs
affecting Veterans of the Vietnam War
era. I have sent a Message to the Congress
reporting on the findings of that review as
well as proposing ways the Administration
can improve the delivery of services and
expand available benefits where necessary,
to these Veterans. While there already are
generous benefits and services available for
Veterans, what is required of us is better
identification of the special needs of Vet-
erans in general, and service-disabled Vet-
erans in particular, and developing meth-
ods for improving the delivery of services
to meet these needs. I have decided to es-
tablish a Veterans' Federal Coordinating
Committee that will be chaired by the As-
sistant to the President for Domestic Af-
fairs and Policy and the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget. Spe-
cifically, the Committee is charged with:
(a) Setting appropriate goals and tak-
ing such other actions as are needed to as-
sure the delivery of services to Veterans.
It will assume the employment responsi-
bilities previously charged to the Inter-
agency Jobs for Veterans Advisory
Committee.
(b) Fostering greater coordination and
linkage of programs affecting Veterans
both within the Federal Government and,
where appropriate, between Federal pro-
grams and those of State and local
governments.
(c) Insuring full implementation of the
decisions made as part of the Policy Re-
view Study.
I am requesting that you designate a
member of your staff for the purpose of
representing your department or agency
on this Committee.
Ralph H. Metcalfe
JIMMY CARTER
Statement on the Death of the Representative
From Illinois. October 10, 1978
With deep regret I learned today of the
death of Representative Ralph H. Met-
calfe. His life was genuinely inspiring. As
a famed Olympic sprinter-second only
1743
