Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 1
ored themselves, their families, their fel-
low musicians, their home communities,
our Nation, and the entire world with
their superb talent and their superb com-
mitment to demonstrate this talent for the
blessings of us all.
Nick, congratulations. Elmar, congrat-
ulations.
We would like to meet each one of you
individually, so Rosalynn and I will go
and form a two-person receiving line. Two
or four? Would you like to meet Nick and
Elmar? And we have Joan Mondale here,
too, who's the nationally famous art-
Joan, come on up. I understand. Come on
up.
As is so often the case in Washington,
our two-person receiving line has now
been expanded to five persons, and before
it gets any greater, I'm going to declare
this meeting adjourned and we'll meet
you right over here. And I would like for
the families of the two musicians to come
through the line first so that we might get
an individual photograph with all of
Thank you very much.
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:50 p.m. in the
Grand Hall at the White House.
Bowers was an insurance and real es-
tate broker from 1965 to 1974. From 1974
to 1977, he was a South Carolina State
highway commissioner, serving as chair-
man of the State Highway and Public
Transportation Commission in 1976-77.
Since 1977 Bowers has been Deputy Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Highway Ad-
ministration.
Arms Embargo Against Turkey
Statement on House of Representatives Action
To End the Embargo. August 1, 1978
I welcome today's vote in the House of
Representatives which clears the way for
a speedy end to the arms embargo on
Turkey.
Together with last week's vote in the
Senate, the House action reflects a bipar-
tisan, statesmanlike recognition that the
time has come to turn a new page in our
relations with the countries of the Eastern
Mediterranean.
In recent weeks, there have been signs
of improvement in the web of problems
affecting relations among Greece, Turkey,
and Cyprus. These developments helped
produce the congressional actions which
will now enable us to put the embargo
Federal Highway Administration era behind us.
Nomination of Karl Bowers To Be
Administrator. August 1, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Karl Bowers, of Estill,
S.C., to be Administrator of the Federal
Highway Administration. He would re-
place William Cox, who has resigned.
Bowers was born October 13, 1941, in
Estill, S.C. He received an A.S. in busi-
ness management from Virginia Southern
College in 1964. He serves in the Air Na-
tional Guard.
Both Greece and Turkey are valued
and respected allies of the United States.
We are eager to help them strengthen
their economies, their democratic institu-
tions, and their contribution to the de-
fense of the West.
My administration will continue to
press for a just and lasting solution in Cy-
prus. We continue to believe that the dis-
putes in the area must be settled through
peaceful procedures. Any effort to impose
a military solution would be actively and
unequivocally opposed by the United
States.
1357
