Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 3
worked to solve them, and who'll be solv-
ing those problems in California for the
next 4 years—my friend and your Gover-
nor, Jerry Brown, who will win a tremen-
dous victory next Tuesday.
More than any other political figure I
know, Jerry Brown is sensitive to the will
of the people of his State. He recognized
the mandate given to him last June, and
he's followed that mandate, not only with
enthusiasm and commitment but with ef-
fectiveness. He's been able to cut State
spending $3 billion. He's been able to cut
State taxes $1 billion. He's been able to re-
turn to local government, to hold down
property taxes $4 billion. This is just a
start. He's the kind of man that can lead
you to even greater life in a greater State
in the future, and I'm very proud to be
here on his behalf.
We have a good partnership between
the Federal and the State Governments.
And also there's a great partnership that
exists in the Jerry Brown-Merv Dymally
team. He inherited a tremendous unem-
ployment rate in California when he be-
came Governor. But with Merv Dymally's
help, there's been a great emphasis on re-
storing the economic soundness of the life
of California.
There have been 1 million new jobs
available for Californians with the Brown-
Dymally team. Corporate profits are at an
all-time high. Personal income is at an all-
time high. New industries are moving in
California as they've never done before.
You've got more foreign investments here
than any State in the entire Nation.
And we need to keep this team intact
for a better economic life, brighter pros-
pects, jobs, lower taxes, lower property
taxes, more savings, tougher State govern-
ment. So, I hope you'll support with all
your enthusiasm you, your friends, your
relatives, anyone you can influence, by
helping to vote—a great victory for Jerry
Brown, Merv Dymally next Tuesday.
We're also trying to do a good job in
Washington. You've got a great leader,
who's recognized by his own peers in the
United States Senate as the Democratic
whip, working with Bob Byrd. Your great
Alan Cranston is a man on whom I de-
pend to help me both with domestic af-
fairs and also foreign affairs.
You have a great congressional team:
Phil Burton, who's a tough in-fighter, who
believes in saving money, who has great
influence with his fellow Members of Con-
gress; Norman Mineta, an expert on ur-
ban affairs; Bizz Johnson, who is responsi-
ble for assuring that the airline industry
will be deregulated-lower fares, more
passengers, higher profits in the future;
Jim Corman, who's heading up the entire
Democratic effort throughout the country
this year to elect Congress Members for
the next session; John Burton; Pete Stark;
Ed Roybal, who's trying to emphasize a
much greater influence, through votes, by
Spanish-speaking Americans all over our
Nation. We are rapidly growing, very im-
portant constituency in our country. So
far, the voter turnout among Americans
who speak Spanish has not been high
enough. It's a great hope of the future.
And I want to encourage an increased
participation in politics, particularly Dem-
ocratic politics, by those whose ancestors
were from Latin America, who speak
Spanish, and who are enlightened, strong,
representing the principles and ideals of a
Democratic Party. Jerry Patterson—and I
particularly want you to help Dennis Ka-
zarian, Norma Bork, and in this area, I'm
especially pleased to be here on behalf of
Vic Fazio and Bob Matsui, who I'm sure
you are going to send to the Congress in
January.
Now I want to say a word about myself.
I've come here as President of our entire
1947
