Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
used to shrink up inside every year this
time when the United Nations General
Assembly convened, because I knew that
my Nation, which I love, would be the
butt of every joke and the target of every
attack for more than two-thirds of the
nations in the world. And I'm proud that
in the last 2 years that has not been the
case, and we've now got new friends
among the poor nations, the small nations,
the new nations, and the nations whose
people are black and brown and yellow.
We've made hundreds of new friends, and
I'm proud of that.
These are some of the promises that I
made to the American people during my 2
years of campaigning; they're part of our
Democratic platform, as you well know.
Two years ago I promised the American
people a responsible government, one that
was lean and efficient and manageable.
And that's what the Congress has helped
me give them.
Two years ago I promised the American
people that we would get control of the
bureaucracy, restore incentives and the
work ethic to our civil service system, let
good employees be rewarded, let poor em-
ployees be inspired to do better or trans-
ferred or perhaps discharged, let man-
agers manage, let our Government be a
source of pride and not despair, admira-
tion and not condemnation. That's what
we've done.
Two years ago I told the American peo-
ple that the Democrats believed that com-
petition and market forces in a free enter-
prise system should determine prices, and
we proved what we meant by making
good progress on the airline deregulation
bill, which I hope will pass, and by admin-
istrative decisions of the CAB, that's low-
ered fares and boosted profits of the air-
lines of the United States. I'm proud of
that, too.
Two years ago I said that Democrats
believed in a free economic system with
minimum intrusion by Government in
the private affairs of American citizens,
and we've proved it by eliminating reg-
ulations, almost as fast as the other party
used to write them, and we're beginning
to rewrite the ones that are left in plain
English so ordinary Americans, even
Democrats [laughter]-can understand
them.
And 2 years ago I promised to main-
tain our national security and to keep
our Nation strong, and we've done that.
The defense establishment has never,
never been so strong. But we've done more
than guarantee our basic security with
military strength; we've cut wasteful mili-
tary expenditures.
We put in a superb new management
team under Harold Brown and the new
Joint Chiefs of Staff to head our military
establishment. We've brought our stra-
tegic thinking into the 21st century.
We are now working on the last phases
of a SALT II agreement with the Soviet
Union, which I hope to consummate
very soon. And we have stopped the
spread of nuclear weapons and the ca-
pability to have nuclear explosions around
the world. The Congress did that; I'm
grateful to them.
But that's not all we've done. Two years
ago I said that peace is more than just
the absence of war. Peace is the unceasing
effort to preserve human freedom and to
preserve basic human rights. And we've
made that effort. It's becoming increas-
ingly successful. There's not a day that
I have been President that we've not
sought to narrow the gap between the
values that we hold most dear as a people
and our actions abroad in dealing with
other people. Our goal is freedom and
peace and justice for all. That's America's
most cherished purpose, and we are strong
in the pursuit of it.
I said 2 years ago that we would re-
move fraud, waste, and corruption from
1648
