Sept. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
array of critical international issues that
face us in these times.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:04 p.m., September 19, 1978]
United Nations Day, 1978
Statement by the President.
September 19, 1978
On this day marking the opening of the
33d United Nations General Assembly, I
have signed this proclamation designating
October 24 as United Nations Day, 1978.
The proclamation is a call for increased
attention and support by the American
people for the U.N. and its affiliated
agencies.
The U.N. is now more involved than
ever before with many of the central is-
sues of our time, and we cannot fully
advance our national interests or help
build a more peaceful world if we ignore
the potential of the U.N.
As a peacekeeper, the U.N. at this
moment has four major operations in the
Middle East and in Cyprus. In addition,
the Security Council is expected to adopt
soon a mandate for a U.N. civilian and
military presence which will implement
the agreed settlement in Namibia. And
the British-American proposal for settle-
ment of the Rhodesian crisis also includes
a U.N. peacekeeping role.
In the vital field of development, the
U.N. system has become the world's larg-
est purveyor of technical assistance, help-
ing to press development programs in
various fields, to uncover mineral deposits,
and to identify investment opportunities.
Few U.N. activities are more critical to
the United States than promotion of the
rapid and orderly development of the
poorer nations of the world-countries
which already constitute our fastest grow-
ing export market and the source of many
of our mineral requirements. And conduct
of the critical North-South economic dia-
log is occurring largely under the auspices
of the U.N.
In the promotion of human rights,
which has been one of the major concerns
of my administration, we have been
heartened by recent advances within
the U.N. system, even as we recognize that
much more progress needs to be made.
International organizations can play an
especially vital role in this field. This De-
cember we will mark the 30th anniversary
of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, a product of the United Nations,
which provides a special reason to hope
and work for greater progress in human
rights around the world.
Nor should the more direct benefits of
our participation in the U.N. be over-
looked. Americans are more protected
from health hazards, air accidents, sea
catastrophes, and environmental dangers
than ever before because of U.N. activi-
ties. U.N. programs like the World Health
Organization's smallpox eradication cam-
paign, or the World Meteorological Or-
ganization's World Weather Watch cost
relatively little, yet they save the Ameri-
can people several hundred million dollars
every year-year after year. We could not
possibly carry out these programs by our-
selves except at enormous cost. It is ap-
propriate that we acknowledge once a
year the unusual contributions to our
health and welfare that are provided by
these critical programs.
For all of these reasons, the United Na-
tions is of clear and growing value to the
United States, and the proclamation is-
1540
