Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
be confined to the smallest area compat-
ible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by Sec-
tion 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved as
the Aniakchak National Monument all
lands, including submerged lands, and
waters owned or controlled by the United
States within the boundaries of the area
depicted as the Aniakchak National Mon-
ument on the map numbered ANIA-
90,006 attached to and forming a part of
this Proclamation. The area reserved con-
sists of approximately 350,000 acres, and
is the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the ob-
jects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument upon acquisition of title there-
to by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, se-
lection, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, rights confirmed in
Section 15 of the Act of January 2, 1976
(89 Stat. 1145), and valid selections un-
der the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding
Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any withdrawal under Section
17 (d) (1) of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1));
however, the national monument shall be
the dominant reservation. Nothing in this
Proclamation is intended to modify or
revoke the terms of the Memorandum of
Understanding dated September 1, 1972,
entered into between the State of Alaska
and the United States as part of the nego-
tiated settlement of Alaska v. Morton,
Civil No. A-48-72 (D. Alaska, Complaint
filed April 10, 1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are ap-
propriate, including regulation of the op-
portunity to engage in a subsistence life-
style by local residents. The Secretary may
close the national monument, or any por-
tion thereof, to subsistence uses of a par-
ticular fish, wildlife or plant population
if necessary for reasons of public safety,
administration, or to ensure the natural
stability or continued viability of such
population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
jure, destroy or remove any feature of
this monument and not to locate or settle
upon any of the lands thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this first day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:54 p.m., December 1, 1978]
NOTE: The maps detailing the boundaries of
the Aniakchak National Monument are
Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Decem-
and under or confirmed in the Alaska
ber 5, 1978.
2115
