Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 15
gotten the aid that you sent to Americans
suffering from the cold winter early last
year, and we will continue to preserve,
through such instruments as the Airlift
Memorial Scholarships, close contact be-
tween generations that had not yet been
born when our fates were first bonded
together.
The Bible says a city that is set on a hill
cannot be hidden. What has been true of
my own land for 32 centuries is equally
true here in Berlin. As a city of human
freedom, human hope, and human rights,
Berlin is a light to the whole world; a city
on a hill-it cannot be hidden; the eyes
of all people are upon you. Was immer
sei, Berlin bleibt frei. (No matter what
happens, Berlin will stay free.)
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:23 p.m. at
the memorial following his arrival at Tempel-
hof Field, where he reviewed American troops.
Berlin, Federal Republic of
Germany
Question-and-Answer Session at a Town
Meeting. July 15, 1978
THE
PRESIDENT. Governing Mayor
Stobbe, this is my second visit to Berlin.
Five
years ago I came as Governor of the
State of Georgia. And my wife and I saw
the monuments by which Berlin teaches
all visitors about the basic realities of our
times. We saw the Wall, and we wor-
shipped at the Memorial Church, which
exists as a solid reminder of the tragedy
of the past and a hopeful promise of your
future. But I also experienced the warmth
and the wit of your irrepressible, stead-
fast people. I knew when I left that some-
day I would want to return.
I'm pleased to enjoy the warmth and
friendship of this hall, because a few
minutes ago I was standing in Potsdamer
Platz, looking silently at the Wall, a
spectacle that so accurately reflects a
wasteland of the human spirit responsible
for the existence of the Wall. This demon-
strates beyond the power of words the
difference between those who believe in
individual human rights, and those who
do not.
I'm thankful that the agreements that
have been reached in recent years have
done so much to make life better and
more humane for Berliners. And all of us
in this room must certainly hope that the
détente which made them possible will be
permitted to continue and to progress.
Almost 30 years ago in the darkest
hours of the Airlift, President Harry Tru-
man said that the courage displayed by
the people of Berlin in their beleaguered
outpost is proof to the world of the
strength of the democratic spirit. With
the help of Lucius Clay and John J.
McCloy, President Truman showed that
we would stand with you when your
liberty was in doubt.
And year after year, American leaders
have reaffirmed their unwavering com-
mitment to the freedom of your city. We
join the British and the French in this
constant pledge.
I'm honored to join the citizens of this
vital and dynamic city to declare again,
whatever happens, Berlin will remain
free.
And now I would like for us to speak
very freely with each other, as has been
my own custom with meetings of this
kind throughout the Nation of the United
States. I will answer your questions to the
best of my ability.
Thank you very much.
AMY CARTER
Q. I am a pupil, Mr. President. My
question is: Does your daughter Amy
learn German in school, Mr. President?
1295
