Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 19
designed to put any sort of pressure on the
Soviet Union. I think the outcome of the
new relationship between ourselves and
the billion people of China and their gov-
ernment is constructive and positive and
contributes toward the lessening of tension
rather than the building up of additional
tension. And that applies to our relation-
ship with the Soviet Union as well as to
other countries.
CONSULTATION WITH THE CONGRESS
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, some
Members of Congress, including Demo-
crats and some liberal Republicans, are
claiming that you failed to live up to an
administration pledge to consult with
Congress before taking any such action as
you have toward Taiwan and Peking. And
now, there's a threat of a court challenge
to the constitutionality of your cancelling
the treaty without congressional approval.
How seriously do you view this? Do you
feel that either Congress or the courts
could block this arrangement with both
Taiwan and Peking?
THE PRESIDENT. No. My constitutional
responsibility in establishing relationships
with foreign countries is clear and cannot
be successfully challenged in court.
We have had constant consultations
with the Congress over the past 2 years.
And our goal in establishing normal rela-
tions with China has been made clear on
numerous occasions by me personally.
When Secretary Vance went to China and
came back, he gave the Congress leaders
and Members a thorough briefing. Dr.
Brzezinski did the same thing after his
visit to China. I have met with all the
Members of the Congress who would
come to sessions here at the White House.
One of the deliberate items on my own
agenda in explaining to them and answer-
ing their questions was about the terms
under which we would normalize relation-
ships with China. I might add that when
numerous delegations of congressional
leaders have gone to the People's Repub-
lic and come back, they have also given
me and Secretary of State Vance their
views on what ought to be done. Almost
invariably their recommendation was to
proceed expeditiously with normalization
of relations with China.
So, there's been a clear understanding,
really ever since 1972, of the policy of
our Government toward China, a desire
to normalize relations, and also a clear
expression of my views both publicly and
privately to the Members of Congress
about our goals and the plans for accom-
plishing this goal.
I might say in complete candor that in
the last 2 or 3 weeks, when the negotia-
tions were building up to a climax in an
unanticipated degree of rapidity of move-
ment, we did not consult with anyone out-
side of a very tiny group within the exec-
utive branch of Government about the
prospective success. But what did happen
should not be a surprise to anyone. The
congressional views were well known to
me. My views were well known to the
Members of Congress.
U.S.-CHINESE NEGOTIATIONS
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, what
was the need for such haste? Why could
you not have consulted with the con-
gressional leaders first, before making the
final commitment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Walter, my ex-
perience in negotiating sensitive and com-
plicated agreements with foreign leaders,
including the experience at Camp David
and otherwise, is that to negotiate through
the news media, through public pro-
2277
