Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
year is 1 percent of our GNP, a substan-
tial reduction in the deficit. And I think
this is necessary to give people confidence
in the future.
And we tend to forget often that con-
trolling inflation is much more beneficial
to those who have marginal incomes,
those who are retired and live on fixed in-
comes, than it is to the wealthy or affluent
or well-educated, or those who have a
flexible opportunity to seek additional
means for income and support. The ones
who are tightly bound because of illiteracy
or because of immobility or because they
don't have options on new jobs, or be-
cause they have already finished their
life's work and are living on a fixed re-
tirement basis, these are the ones that suf-
fer most from inflation.
And when you take a strong stand
against inflation, it doesn't mean that
you're abandoning your commitment to
the well-being of people who need
government assistance and government
protection most. I think it's a contribut-
ing factor to government caring for, car-
ing about and caring for, these who are
most vulnerable.
Q. Mr. President, if you're going to
reach that goal of 30 billion or less on the
deficit-
THE PRESIDENT. I am.
Q. we are told that you'll have to
find somehow, to cut 15 billion or more
off just the cost of current programs
scheduled for next year. If you're going
to increase defense spending, what on
Earth are you going to find in the other
parts of the budget to squeeze that much
out of?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll find it. We've
got overall projections now, of course. Be-
fore I made that commitment, which was
a very serious commitment and one about
which we had a fairly substantial debate,
we had excellent projections that showed
that it was both feasible and that it would
be accomplished. It's not going to be easy.
And there are going to be many disap-
pointed heads of Federal agencies and
many disappointed interest groups in our
country. But it's going to be fair, equita-
ble, a sharing of some moderate sacrifice.
But the benefits to be derived from this
policy will be, I think, well recognized
and supported. We'll meet that goal.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, on the Middle East,
sir, do you think a time might come when
another summit might be necessary to un-
tangle all the apparently serious problems
that are cropping up?
THE PRESIDENT. I really hope not. And
this is not something that we are contem-
plating.
There are two serious problems that
we have now that we did not have at
Camp David. One is the lack of authority,
final authority, granted to the negotiators.
Three weeks ago I think it was 3 weeks
ago, 32 weeks ago I spent almost all
weekend, including late at night, early in
the morning, meeting with the Egyptian
and Israeli negotiators. We arrived at an
ageement on a treaty text. This text was
then submitted back to the national lead-
ers and cabinets and others, and was re-
jected because of what I consider to be
minor differences. They were important
to the negotiating nations: And at Camp
David, on the contrary, I could walk 50
yards or in 2 minutes have a private con-
versation in my own cabin with either
Begin or Sadat; sometimes, if necessary,
both together.
That's been one of the most frustrating
things. We've had to negotiate a treaty or
a settlement several times already; each
time someone has rejected the final con-
clusion.
I would say equally as serious, perhaps
even more serious, is that the negotiations
2042
