Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sept. 18
assuring internal and external security
and public order. A strong local police
force will be established, which may in-
clude Jordanian citizens. In addition, Is-
raeli and Jordanian forces will participate
in joint patrols and in the manning of
control posts to assure the security of the
borders.
(c) When the self-governing authority
(administrative council) in the West Bank
and Gaza is established and inaugurated,
the transitional period of five years will
begin. As soon as possible, but not later
than the third year after the beginning of
the transitional period, negotiations will
take place to determine the final status of
the West Bank and Gaza and its relation-
ship with its neighbors, and to conclude a
peace treaty between Israel and Jordan
by the end of the transitional period.
These negotiations will be conducted
among Egypt, Israel, Jordan, and the
elected representatives of the inhabitants
of the West Bank and Gaza. Two separate
but related committees will be convened,
one committee, consisting of representa-
tives of the four parties which will nego-
tiate and agree on the final status of the
West Bank and Gaza, and its relationship
with its neighbors, and the second com-
mittee, consisting of representatives of
Israel and representatives of Jordan to be
joined by the elected representatives of
the inhabitants of the West Bank and
Gaza, to negotiate the peace treaty be-
tween Israel and Jordan, taking into ac-
count the agreement reached on the final
status of the West Bank and Gaza. The
negotiations shall be based on all the pro-
visions and principles of UN Security
Council Resolution 242. The negotia-
tions will resolve, among other matters,
the location of the boundaries and the
nature of the security arrangements. The
solution from the negotiations must also
recognize the legitimate rights of the
Palestinian people and their just require-
ments. In this way, the Palestinians will
participate in the determination of their
own future through:
1) The negotiations among Egypt,
Israel, Jordan and the representa-
tives of the inhabitants of the West
Bank and Gaza to agree on the
final status of the West Bank and
Gaza and other outstanding issues
by the end of the transitional
period.
2) Submitting their agreement to a
vote by the elected representatives
of the inhabitants of the West Bank
and Gaza.
3) Providing for the elected repre-
sentatives of the inhabitants of the
West Bank and Gaza to decide
how they shall govern themselves
consistent with the provisions of
their agreement.
4) Participating as stated above in
the work of the committee nego-
tiating the peace treaty between
Israel and Jordan.
2. All necessary measures will be taken
and provisions made to assure the security
of Israel and its neighbors during the
transitional period and beyond. To assist
in providing such security, a strong local
police force will be constituted by the self-
governing authority. It will be composed
of inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza.
The police will maintain continuing liai-
son on internal security matters with the
designated Israeli, Jordanian, and Egyp-
tian officers.
3. During the transitional period, rep-
resentatives of Egypt, Israel, Jordan, and
the self-governing authority will consti-
tute a continuing committee to decide by
agreement on the modalities of admission
of persons displaced from the West Bank
and Gaza in 1967, together with necessary
measures to prevent disruption and dis-
order. Other matters of common concern
may also be dealt with by this committee.
1525
