Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
in political affairs and military affairs
that are not directly related to economics.
So, the complexity of it is certainly appre-
ciated by me.
But the basic strength of our country,
militarily and economically and politi-
cally, is the great resource that I have
that gives me confidence that, in spite of
my own limitations and the complexity of
issues, that I might do a good job in the
Congress.
Let me say that I'm thankful to you all
for coming to meet with me. I've enjoyed
it.
Q. Why don't we do it every 2 weeks?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have a press
conference every couple of weeks.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The interview began at 8:50 a.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Ambassador at Large
Nomination of W. Beverly Carter, Jr.
November 16, 1978
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate W. Beverly Carter,
Jr., to be Ambassador at Large to head a
new State Department Office for Liaison
with State and Local Governments.
Carter, 57, of Philadelphia, Pa., is Am-
bassador to the Republic of Liberia.
As head of the Office for Liaison with
State and Local Governments, Carter will
report directly to the Secretary of State,
and will also work closely with Jack
Watson, Assistant to the President for In-
tergovernmental Affairs.
The responsibilities of the new office
will include facilitating State and local
governments' priority international inter-
ests; arranging briefings and other com-
munications for Governors and key local
government leaders on international is-
sues of special interest to them, and con-
veying their views on such issues to the
President and the Secretary of State; as-
sisting senior State and local government
officials in planning their official overseas
travel and the visits of foreign officials;
coordinating assignments with State and
local governments for Foreign Service of-
ficers; and developing the State Depart-
ment's capabilities to identify and to re-
port to State and local governments on
how other societies at the national or sub-
national level understand and resolve
common problems of major importance.
Prior to his present assignment in Li-
beria, Carter served as Ambassador to
Tanzania (1972-1975) and Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of State for African Af-
fairs (1969-1972). A career Foreign Serv-
ice information officer, he has served in
public affairs and area positions in both
the former USIA and the State Depart-
ment.
David H. Shinn has been selected as
deputy to Ambassador Carter and will be
in charge of the new Office until Carter's
return in mid-January. Shinn, a career
Foreign Service officer, was most recently
detailed to the mayor's office in Seattle
under the Pearson Amendment domestic
assignment program.
National Council on the
Humanities
Recess Appointment of Nine Members.
November 16, 1978
The President today announced the re-
cess appointment of nine persons as mem-
bers of the National Council on the Hu-
manities. Eight of these persons had been
2049
