Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I do not have all the answers. Nobody
does. Perhaps there is no complete and
adequate answer. But I want to let you
know that fighting inflation will be a cen-
tral preoccupation of mine during the
months ahead, and I want to arouse our
Nation to join me in this effort.
There are two simplistic and familiar
answers which are sometimes proposed―
simple, familiar, and too extreme. One of
these answers is to impose a complicated
scheme of Federal Government wage and
price controls on our entire free economic
system. The other is a deliberate reces-
sion, which would throw millions of peo-
ple out of work. Both of these extreme
proposals would not work, and they must
be rejected.
I've spent many hours in the last few
months reviewing, with my own advisers
and with a number of outside experts,
every proposal, every suggestion, every
possibility for eliminating inflation. If
there's one thing I have learned beyond
any doubt, it is that there is no single so-
lution for inflation.
What we have, instead, is a number of
partial remedies. Some of them will help;
others may not. But we have no choice
but to use the best approaches we have
and to maintain a constant search for
additional steps which may be effective.
I want to discuss with you tonight some
of the approaches we have been able to
develop. They involve action by Govern-
ment, business, labor, and every other sec-
tor of our economy. Some of these factors
are under my control as President-espe-
cially Government actions—and I will in-
sist that the Government does its part of
the job.
But whether our efforts are successful
will finally depend on you as much as on
me. Your decisions-made every day at
your service station or your grocery store,
in your business, in your union meetings—
will determine our Nation's answer to in-
flation as much as decisions made here in
the White House or by the Congress on
Capitol Hill.
I cannot guarantee that our joint effort
will succeed. In fact, it is almost certain
not to succeed if success means quick or
dramatic changes. Every free government
on Earth is wrestling with this problem
of inflation, and every one of them knows
that a long-term disease requires long-
term treatment. It's up to us to make the
improvements we can, even at the risk of
partial failure, rather than to ensure fail-
ure by not trying at all.
I will concentrate my efforts within
the Government. We know that Govern-
ment is not the only cause of inflation. But
it is one of the causes, and Government
does set an example. Therefore, it must
take the lead in fiscal restraint.
We are going to hold down Govern-
ment spending, reduce the budget deficit,
and eliminate Government waste.
We will slash Federal hiring and cut
the Federal work force.
We will eliminate needless regulations.
We will bring more competition back
to our economy.
And we will oppose any further reduc-
tion in Federal income taxes until we have
convincing prospects that inflation will be
controlled.
Let me explain what each one of these
steps means.
The Federal deficit is too high. Our
people are simply sick and tired of waste-
ful Federal spending and the inflation it
brings with it.
We have already had some success.
We've brought the deficit down by one-
third since I ran for President-from
more than $66 billion in fiscal year 1976
to about $40 billion in fiscal year 1979—
a reduction of more than $25 billion in the
Federal deficit in just 3 years.
1840
