Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
own
government processes. They've
stopped voting. And this is a very serious
indictment of our own process of encour-
aging people to control their own affairs.
In 1950, two-thirds of the American
people voted. In 1978, so far, two-
thirds of the American people have not
voted. Of all the nations on Earth who
permit their citizens to vote, we are num-
ber one in nonparticipation. There is no
other country that approaches the United
States in citizens not participating in the
choosing of their own leaders.
Our very Nation's government basis
was that leaders should govern with the
consent of the governed, that laws should
be made by the consent of the governed.
And in our country lately, the trend has
been away from this commitment. There
are many reasons for it. Some have been
because of disillusionment evolving from
the war, from Watergate. Some of the
reasons have been because American citi-
zens don't think their voice makes a
difference.
My wife was in Ohio this past week,
and in the last several Governors elec-
tions and in also the Presidential elec-
tions, the outcome was determined by one
vote per precinct. So, every citizen's voice
should and does count.
Americans realize, I believe, as a body,
that the future is important. And they rec-
ognize that leaders like the President of
the United States and Members of the
Senate, Members of Congress, Governors,
mayors, have a responsibility.
Part of my responsibility the next 4
weeks will be to encourage Americans to
take part in the election process. We've
organized now and will implement, be-
ginning today, a 4 weeks' crusade among
Democratic Party officials-Senator Ford,
Jim Corman, John White, and others—
a crusade to get people to participate.
I have asked my family members, my
Cabinet members, and local and State of-
ficials throughout the country to join in
this effort. During the last few days before
the November vote, I'll make a personal
commitment of several days to encourage
people to participate in the process, as the
President of our country.
We have a need to remind people, "If
you don't vote, you're the loser." "If you
don't vote, you are the loser"—that will
be our slogan. That will be the motivation
for my own effort. And I hope that we can
correct one of the most serious defects in
the democratic system of our Nation. I
think our government will be better if our
people participate in choosing our leaders
and if the leaders of the government at
different levels know that the people care
who we are and what we do.
Our government's strength is derived
directly from the people themselves, and
I hope that this effort will be successful.
After I leave, Senator Ford and Con-
gressman Corman, Chairman White will
explain the details of our effort. But I
would like to ask the news media, particu-
larly, to publicize the fact that our Na-
tion's strength does depend upon partici-
pation of people in the government proc-
ess on election day and subsequent to that,
and that if they don't vote, then they, the
individual voters, are the losers.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. at
the Democratic National Committee Head-
quarters.
Foreign Relations Authorization
Act, Fiscal Year 1979
Statement on Signing H.R. 12598 Into Law.
October 10, 1978
I have signed into law H.R. 12598, the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act of
1979.
1734
