Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 17
Indian communities and their special re-
lationship to the Federal Government.
This act provides a needed base of stable
funding for postsecondary education on
our Indian reservations, and provides
American Indians with greater education-
al opportunities near their families, their
tribes, and their places of employment.
Special Congressional Medal
Honoring Marian Anderson
Remarks at the Presentation Ceremony.
October 17, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I'd like to
ask Marian Anderson to come up with
me.
On very rare occasions, there are people
who appear in the world community who
are an inspiration to literally millions of
I appreciate the efforts of Senator
Abourezk and Representative Blouin in
securing passage of this legislation, which
will enable American Indian citizens to
make greater contributions to their com- people because of their superb talent, be-
munities and to their Nation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1215 is Public Law
95-471, approved October 17.
Director of the Presidential
Personnel Office
Appointment of Arnold J. Miller.
October 17, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Arnold J. Miller, of Bur-
tonsville, Md., as Director of the Presiden-
tial Personnel Office. He replaces James
F. Gammill, Jr., who is going back to his
studies in economics and finance.
Miller, 37, is officer-in-charge of the
Washington office of Contract Research
Corp., a Massachusetts-based manage-
ment consulting and executive recruit-
ment firm. He was one of the founders
of the firm in 1973.
Before the founding of Contract Re-
search Corp., Miller was manager of na-
tional projects for Abt Associates in Cam-
bridge, Mass. He has done graduate study
at Harvard's Russian Research Center,
and is the author of "Manpower Pro-
grams for Offenders: A Technical As-
sistance Guide" and "An Operational
System for the Jacksonville, Florida Con-
centrated Employment Program."
cause of their sensitivity to others' yearn-
ings for status in life or opportunity or a
joy of living, and who at the same time
exemplify the characteristics of citizens of
a nation like our own whose ideals and
aspirations and standards all of us cherish.
Marian Anderson is one of those rare
people. Her musical talent is exceptional,
unique, recognized and enjoyed by peo-
ple everywhere. She's brought joy to mil-
lions of people, and she exemplifies the
finest aspects of American citizenship.
She's never considered herself to be a
crusader for the downtrodden or brown
or yellow or black people of our planet.
But she's done as much to elevate their
souls, their spirit, and their status among
other human beings as anyone else who's
ever lived.
No one in this country could ever forget
Easter Sunday in 1939, when Marian An-
derson let her beautiful voice be heard in
a quiet but forceful way, saying that black
people have rights in this country that
have not yet been recognized.
That was a long time ago. It was 15
years before the Supreme Court ruled that
there should be equality of rights in our
country. And she did it in such a way that
tore the heart of those who were afflicted
by their own conscience, but inspired
those who wanted more courage to bring
1787
