Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
on whether the people approve or not.
CAMP DAVID MEETINGS; HUMPHREY-
HAWKINS BILL
Q. Mr. President, it was recently re-
ported that you said in a meeting with the
Congressional Black Caucus that a Camp
David-type meeting on the Humphrey-
Hawkins full employment bill would be
ill-advised-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's correct.
Q.-causing John Conyers to storm
out, as everyone knows. And I was won-
dering, first, why would such a meeting be
ill-advised, and secondly, if Camp David
meetings are to be focused on interna-
tional affairs, might such a meeting take
place involving the principal ones in
South Africa and Rhodesia, where these
situations could be equally as violent and
turmoil could equally exist?
THE PRESIDENT. I've been in office now
for 20 months. I've faced many very diffi-
cult issues, in foreign affairs and domestic
affairs. I've never called a caucus or a
meeting at Camp David except once in
my life. This was a unique set of circum-
stances where I felt that extended nego-
tiations over several days—as you know,
it turned out to be 2 weeks-in almost
complete seclusion, was absolutely neces-
sary to reach an agreement.
I would guess that this might never
again occur. It may on very rare occa-
sions. But I don't ever intend to use a
Camp David meeting to settle matters
that ought best to be resolved within the
Congress, where they can best handle
them. I will use my utmost influence to
determine the outcome of those delibera-
tions in the Congress.
As far as the Humphrey-Hawkins bill
goes, I think it's very important that this
bill be passed. It's a full employment com-
mitment of our country, which I share.
We have helped to get the bill passed
through the House. It is now on the Sen-
ate calendar. I talked to Majority Leader
Byrd since lunch about this. He's proceed-
ing as rapidly as he can. He's trying to
get a time certain, an agreement by some
Republican Members of the Senate to
vote on the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
But it's just not appropriate and I think
it would be ill-advised for me to take a.
group of Senators or Congressmen in the
last 2 weeks of the session up to Camp
David to spend a week or two in seclusion.
It's just impractical.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, we hear reports that
you feel pretty good about how the SALT
negotiations are coming along these days.
How close are we to a SALT agreement
now?
THE PRESIDENT. The issues that divide
us and the Soviet Union on SALT have
been constantly narrowed over the last
18 months of negotiation. Now the issues
are quite few.
I also talked to Secretary Vance since
lunch. He's been meeting today and yes-
terday with Foreign Minister Gromyko of
the Soviet Union. I think that both men
are negotiating aggressively and in good
faith to reach a conclusion of the differ-
ences.
I don't know what the outcome will be.
It takes two to reach agreement. We hope
to conclude a SALT agreement this year,
and I will be meeting with Foreign Minis-
ter Gromyko Saturday to capitalize upon
the progress that I hope that Vance and
Gromyko are making now. I don't see any
insurmountable obstacles. But if the
Soviets are forthcoming and cooperative
and are willing to compromise some of
their positions, we will have an agreement.
1656
