Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 10
Act. That has passed the Senate and is
now pending in the House.
We've been somewhat delayed on re-
vamping and revising the LEAA because
it's complex. And we started out, because
of some of the things they'd done in the
past, with the idea that maybe it should be
abolished. We finally decided the thing
to do was to refurbish it in a way to take
out wasted overhead on local, State, and
Federal levels, and on the Federal level
we reduced the payroll by 15 percent
by 15 percent
since we've been here, number one. Num-
ber two, take the fat out, not spend any
more money on boondoggles, but to be
sure that the money goes to the process
of deterring and eliminating crime.
So, we're ending up with a three-
pronged agency—research and develop-
ment that will guarantee that our re-
search is worthwhile and that it will pro-
duce something that can be developed; a
Bureau of Justice Statistics, something
badly needed. We oftentimes do not know
what to do about the total system from
police, courts, and corrections and prose-
cutions, without having some idea of what
the statistical picture is in the country.
It's been fragmented. We're bringing that
together. And, of course, the grant part
of the program will be a great deal bet-
ter, because 70 percent of the money, as
the President said, will go out almost as
revenue-sharing, and the other 30 per-
cent will be reserved for discretionary
programs.
I'm quite pleased over the prospects,
and I'm more pleased than that by the
fact that Senator Kennedy and Chairman
Rodino and some of their colleagues will
be sponsoring this legislation. We hope to
have it in place by October of 1979, when
the present authorization for the LEAA
expires. At that time, we'll be ready to
move into the new system and, hopefully,
both committees will agree with the Pres-
ident and me that we ought to go ahead
and as much as possible put the new man-
agement concept in place now, because
this is a managerial problem. And when
I say that, I say serious managerial prob-
lem. And we need to go ahead and move
to better management.
I think that Mr. Gregg at the LEAA,
who has been the Acting Administrator
and is now, has done a wonderful job.
Mr. President, he's one of these super-
grades that goes about the Government
in management capacities as he's as-
signed, just as you're thinking of doing
in the civil service reform. And he's done
a fine job. But we want to go ahead and
put the new management in place as
quickly as possible.
Now, it's my pleasure to present to you
Senator Kennedy, who's got, I would say,
as wide-ranging an interest in the admin-
istration of justice as anyone I know. It
was Senator Kennedy and his staff that
did a great deal of the work on the bill
that's going to be introduced today.
It's my pleasure to introduce Senator
Kennedy.
SENATOR KENNEDY. Thank you very
much, General Bell, Mr. President.
I think there are few issues which are
of greater concern to the American people
than their own safety and security. I think
all of us are very mindful that the people
who suffer the most in terms of crime are
the really powerless people in our society,
whether it's in the urban areas or in rural
communities or in suburban areas.
Usually they're the senior citizens, the
poor, the disadvantaged people. I think
this legislation represents the best judg-
ment of those that have been interested
in the issues of crime in the Senate. It has
strong bipartisan support in the Senate. It
recognizes the importance of corrections
and rehabilitation.
I'm very hopeful that we'll get early
consideration of the legislation and early
passage of it, and it will symbolize that
1243
