Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Aug. 4
a long-term process of cooperation with
ASEAN. The United States will respond
to ASEAN's own regional priorities and
programs and has agreed to set up con-
sultative arrangements in key economic
areas such as aid, energy, science and
technology, food, business affairs, and
trade.
Philippine Foreign Minister General
Carlos P. Romulo, the spokesman for
ASEAN, noted that this first joint minis-
terial meeting represented the culmina-
tion of intensive preparations and con-
sultations between ASEAN and the
United States. The meeting, he added,
was an open dialog on the range of
international issues and afforded an excel-
lent opportunity to improve understand-
ing and set up long-term consultative
arrangements. General Romulo said the
meeting reinforces the partnership and
friendly relations that exist between the
United States and ASEAN.
Besides General Romulo, ASEAN was
represented by Ministers Widjojo and
Radius, and Ambassador Ashari of Indo-
nesia; Minister Rithauddeen and Am-
bassador Zain of Malaysia; Ministers
Marcos, Virata, Sicat, and Peterno, and
Ambassador Romualdez of the Philip-
pines; Ministers Rajaratnam and Goh,
and Ambassador Coomaraswaney of
Singapore; and Ministers Pachariyang-
kun, Amarand, and Sribhibhadh, and
Ambassador Visessurakarn of Thailand;
ASEAN Secretary-General Abdullah;
and Ambassador Manalo, ASEAN-U.S.
Coordinator of the Philippines.
On the U.S. side, besides President
Carter, Secretary Blumenthal of Treas-
ury; Deputy Secretary Christopher of
State; Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs; Ambassador Henry Owen and
Nicholas Platt of the National Security
Council; Under Secretary Richard
Cooper and Assistant Secretary Richard
Holbrooke of State; and Anthony Gerber,
State Department ASEAN-U.S. Coor-
dinator attended.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
July 31
The President met at Camp David,
Md., with:
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown,
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs, and Hamilton Jordan, Assist-
ant to the President;
-Vice President Mondale.
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David.
The President met with leaders of re-
ligious organizations in the Cabinet
Room at the White House to discuss for-
eign assistance programs.
August 1
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Secretary Brown and Representa-
tives George H. Mahon of Texas
and Jack Edwards of Alabama;
-members of the Vietnam Veterans in
Congress;
1379
