Nov. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President's Commission on
Mental Retardation
Appointment of Six Members.
November 22, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of six persons as members
of the President's Commission on Mental
Retardation, for terms expiring May 11,
1981. They are:
ANDREW I. T. CHANG, of Aiea, Hawaii, direc-
tor of the Hawaii Department of Social
Services and Housing;
HERBERT J. COHEN, a professor of pediatrics
at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in
the Bronx and director of Bronx Develop-
mental Services, a community mental re-
tardation services program;
RUTH W. DIGGS, of Norfolk, Va., a professor
in the department of special education at
Norfolk State College and a former teacher
and principal at a school for the mentally
retarded;
SHIRLEY C. MILLER, of Atlanta, chairperson
of the human rights committee of the
Atlanta Association for Retarded Citizens
and winner of awards for her work on be-
half of the mentally retarded;
EDWARD J. QUILLIGAN, a professor and asso-
ciate vice president of health affairs at the
University of Southern California School of
Medicine;
AILEEN A. WEISS, of Columbia, S.C., a speech
pathologist and head of the speech and
hearing program for the Military Dependent
Schools at Fort Jackson, S.C.
National Bible Week
Remarks at a White House Dinner in
Observance of the Week. November 22, 1978
Last night, in preparation for my intro-
ducing the guest performer, I reread the
Book of Mark and tried to think ahead
about the experience that we had in store
for us tonight. It became much more
obvious to me than it ever had before that
the Bible is not just a spiritual textbook,
but it's an excellent and exciting story, a
story about Jesus Christ, one of the most
exciting stories of all time, which some-
times loses its meaning and its fervor
when we take each verse apart and try
to analyze or diagram the verse or probe
into every single word. There's obviously
a time for that, but I think in the proc-
ess we lose perspective to some degree
and forget that Christ was a person who
was alive, dynamic, vigorous, strong, with
a great sense of humor.
And we have tonight a great performer
to tell us this story in a similar fashion to
what Mark might have used when he
burst forth to bring his Gospel to the
world.
As you know, Mark was an intimate
friend of Paul, with some ups and downs.
He was an intimate friend of Peter. And,
as you know, the Gospel means, in itself,
"good news."
I've not seen this performance or heard
this reading. But I think it is likely that
we'll hear the story of Christ told not in
a sad, dreary way of an interesting per-
son approaching death, but a vibrant
story of a man who was alive during the
time he was on Earth and who was alive
and is alive after death. So, it's a happy
story.
Alec McCowen is a noted performer
on his own. A small view of his biogra-
phy is in the program that you have. He
took upon himself the task of memorizing,
I believe, 678 verses in Mark. And we're
very delighted to have him here with us.
I talked to him for a few minutes before
we both came in, and he said it was going
to be as though he was in his own home
and among friends. And, Alec, that's the
way we look upon you as well.
Thank you for coming. We look for-
ward to your reading.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:46 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
The 38th annual National Bible Week was
sponsored by the National Bible Committee,
Inc.
2070
