Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 27
tivity directly, to reexamine the cost-
inflating work practices and the possibility
of adopting new technologies that will
combat rising costs. We will look to the
localities to attack directly high real estate
transaction costs.
Similarly, the States and localities must
attack other restraints on competition,
both governmental and private. These in-
clude the use of licensing to restrict entry
into occupations and eliminate competi-
tion, restrictions by private groups on ad-
vertising of prices by their members, in-
surance regulations that hold premium
costs up, public utility rate structures that
fail to encourage conservation and so pro-
mote the unnecessary installation of costly
additional capacity.
In the next few weeks I will be calling
on State and local officials and working
closely with you, when necessary, to revise
regulations of businesses to increase com-
petition and reduce costs and to follow
restrained, prudent tax and spending pol-
icies.
In this fight all sectors have a role. I've
taken painful action at the Federal level
already by reducing Federal spending,
putting a cap on Federal employment,
putting a cap on Federal salaries, vetoing
popular legislation, and performing a
tough cost analysis benefit of new regula-
tions.
The most important things that cities
can do to fight inflation is to make sure
that all goods and services which you pro-
cure come only from suppliers who will
certify that they are in compliance with
Federal wage and price guidelines. The
second is for cities themselves to abide by
our wage and price standards in nego-
tiating contracts and in setting your own
fees. This will not only help hold down
costs but set an example for private firms
and others in your own localities. I call
on you today to follow the guidelines in
these two important areas. But these steps
alone will not be enough.
Let me repeat what I said earlier: the
1980 budget will be very, very tight. It
will disappoint those who do not take in-
flation seriously. It will disappoint those
who expect protection from inflation
while someone else bears the burden. It
will disappoint those who think only of
next year and not the next decade. And
it will disappoint those who expect con-
stantly expanding Federal aid and a con-
stantly expanding number of Federal pro-
grams and agencies.
We must control inflation. We must
bring it down. We must stop it from in-
terfering with our lives, our aspirations,
and our hopes for the future. That's why
I need your understanding and your co-
operation and your help to solve this
problem once and for all.
If we fail to control inflation, we face
a deeply troubled future. We would erode
the commitment of the American public
to helping cities, to helping the poor, to
helping the elderly, the jobless, the sick,
and the weak. That is a prospect we dare
not face.
But as we are successful and bring
down inflation, with a concerted effort,
we can look back on these years with the
satisfaction that we built a solid founda-
tion that kept our country prosperous,
compassionate, and strong. That will take
an unprecedented effort by us all in the
next few years. It will take imagination.
It will require initiative, a close attention
paid to local and unique circumstances.
It will require sacrifice. And it will take
the patience to realize that we cannot af-
ford everything that we want now.
I believe strongly that we have the will
to solve this problem of inflation in Amer-
ica. I believe strongly that the people are
ready to make the necessary sacrifices, if
only government provides the leadership
2079
