Sept. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
thusiasm, by President Sadat, the leader
of one of the greatest nations on Earth.
The other document is
is entitled,
"Framework for the Conclusion of a
Peace Treaty Between Egypt and Israel."
It provides for the full exercise of Egyp-
tian sovereignty over the Sinai. It calls
for the full withdrawal of Israeli forces
from the Sinai and, after an interim with-
drawal which will be accomplished very
quickly, the establishment of normal,
peaceful relations between the two coun-
tries, including diplomatic relations.
Together with accompanying letters,
which we will make public tomorrow,
these two Camp David agreements pro-
vide the basis for progress and peace
throughout the Middle East.
There is one issue on which agreement
has not been reached. Egypt states that
the agreement to remove Israeli settle-
ments from Egyptian territory is a pre-
requisite to a peace treaty. Israel states
that the issue of the Israeli settlements
should be resolved during the peace ne-
gotiations. That's a substantial difference.
Within the next 2 weeks, the Knesset will
decide on the issue of these settlements.
Tomorrow night, I will go before the
Congress to explain these agreements
more fully and to talk about their impli-
cations for the United States and for the
world. For the moment, and in closing, I
want to speak more personally about my
admiration for all of those who have
taken part in this process and my hope
that the promise of this moment will be
fulfilled.
During the last 2 weeks, the members
of all three delegations have spent end-
less hours, day and night, talking, negoti-
ating, grappling with problems that have
divided their people for 30 years. When-
ever there was a danger that human ener-
gy would fail, or patience would be ex-
hausted or good will would run out-and
there were many such moments-these
two leaders and the able advisers in all
delegations found the resources within
them to keep the chances for peace alive.
Well, the long days at Camp David are
over. But many months of difficult nego-
tiations still lie ahead. I hope that the
foresight and the wisdom that have made
this session a success will guide these lead-
ers and the leaders of all nations as they
continue the progress toward peace.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Dear President Car-
ter, in this historic moment, I would like
to express to you my heartfelt congratu-
lations and appreciation. For long days
and nights, you devoted your time and
energy to the pursuit of peace. You have
been most courageous when you took the
gigantic step of convening this meeting.
The challenge was great and the risks
were high, but so was your determination.
You made a commitment to be a full
partner in the peace process. I'm happy to
say that you have honored your commit-
ment.
The signing of the framework for the
comprehensive peace settlement has a
significance far beyond the event. It sig-
nals the emergence of a new peace initia-
tive, with the American nation in the
heart of the entire process.
In the weeks ahead, important deci-
sions have to be made if we are to proceed
on the road to peace. We have to re-
affirm the faith of the Palestinian people
in the ideal of peace.
The continuation of your active role is
indispensable. We need your help and the
support of the American people. Let me
seize this opportunity to thank each and
every American for his genuine interest
in the cause of people in the Middle East.
Dear friend, we came to Camp David
with all the good will and faith we pos-
sessed, and we left Camp David a few
minutes ago with a renewed sense of hope
and inspiration. We are looking forward
1520
