Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
can't recall any time when there was a
retrogression or a pause in the commit-
ment to reach a SALT agreement. Our
position has been clear. We have har-
mony, I believe, among the Defense De-
partment, State Department, and the
White House on what should be the
United States position. If the Soviets are
adequately forthcoming, we will have an
agreement without further delay. If they
are not forthcoming, then we'll continue
to negotiate.
Q. And how about the summit?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that as we ap-
proach the time when we are sure that
the items have been resolved that are still
under negotiation, at that time we will
have a summit meeting. And at that sum-
mit meeting we will discuss not only con-
cluding the SALT agreement officially but
also have a broad agenda of other items
that are of mutual interest to us and the
Soviet Union.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
GASOLINE PRICES
Q. Mr. President, do you lean toward
or against the decontrolling of gasoline
prices at this time of high inflation? It's a
two-edged sword, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. It is, and it's one that
I haven't yet decided upon. When I pre-
sented my comprehensive energy plan to
the Congress in April of 1977, inflation,
although important, was not the preemi-
nent issue in my mind.
The Secretary of Energy, my own ad-
visers in the White House, and Alfred
Kahn, who's responsible for the anti-in-
flation program, are now assessing all the
ramifications of the pricing of gasoline,
and, of course, the Congress will be in-
volved in the decision also. But I've not
yet reached a decision about what the ad-
ministration's position will be.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, the other day you
took a very serious view of Israel and
Egypt going past the 17th of this month
without concluding a treaty-that's the
date they themselves set for it. Now, with
5 days left, what's your belief, or hunch,
as to whether they'll meet that deadline?
And do you still think it's sort of a "now
or never" proposition?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's now
or never. And you very accurately de-
scribed this deadline date as one estab-
lished by Israel and Egypt in the most
solemn commitment at Camp David.
Secretary Vance reports to me, from
Cairo, good progress having been made
between him and President Sadat. He has
not begun further negotiations with the
Israelis yet because of Mrs. Meir's funeral.
He will return to Egypt, try to conclude
his discussions with President Sadat, and
then go back to Israel for discussions with
the Israelis.
I consider the deadline date to be quite
important. If the Egyptians and Israelis
cannot keep a commitment on a 3-month
conclusion of a peace treaty when they
themselves are the only two nations in-
volved, serving as a mediator in the proc-
ess, then I think it would be very difficult
for them to expect the terms of the treaty
they are negotiating to be carried out with
assurance. It sets a very bad precedent for
Israel and Egypt not to reach a conclu-
sion.
I think the differences that presently
divide Israel and Egypt are minor, cer-
tainly compared to the resolution of
major differences in the past. And I be-
lieve that President Sadat has reconfirmed
his intention, his commitment, to Secre-
2220
