Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
-establish an unwise precedent for
paying industry for losses which occur
when a product is used to meet a reg-
ulatory standard and the product is
later found to be hazardous and elim-
inated from the marketplace;
-open the door for compensation of
businesses which marketed TRIS-
treated products after it was known,
or should have been known, that
TRIS was proving to be hazardous;
-result in complex, expensive and
time-consuming litigation, particu-
larly by large retailers who have sub-
stantial sums at stake and can finance
such litigation.
I understand that some small cutting
and sewing firms involved have received
loans from the Small Business Administra-
tion, specifically under the 15 USC 636
(b), to help them continue in business and
to preserve the livelihoods of their em-
ployees. I ask that SBA continue this work
but, in addition, assist other eligible firms
to the fullest extent possible under existing
loan programs. This would allow af-
fected firms which are facing financial
difficulties time to recover and, where
appropriate, to seek redress through the
judicial systems for any losses they may
have incurred.
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable A. Vernon Weaver, Adminis-
trator, Small Business Administration, 1441 C
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20416]
National Energy Bills
Remarks on Signing H.R. 4018, H.R. 5263,
H.R. 5037, H.R. 5146, and H.R. 5289 Into
Law. November 9, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is a day of great
progress for our Nation and of great per-
sonal satisfaction to me as President. And
I think it's a vindication of our system of
democratic government.
Today I'm very proud to sign into law
the five essential elements of our national
energy program. Today we can rightfully
claim that we have a conscious national
policy for dealing with the energy prob-
lems of the present and also to help us
deal with them in the future.
Enacting these five bills, as everyone
here knows, has been a difficult and some-
times a painful political process. It's re-
quired confidence, dedication, vision, and
hard work. But I know of no task which
we faced at the outset of my own admin-
istration which was more important to the
economic health and well-being and, in-
deed, even the national security of our
country.
Events of the past 18 months have
underscored the importance of this legis-
lation. A severe natural gas shortage dur-
ing one of our more severe winters, a crip-
pling and unpredictable coal strike, the
severe imbalance of payments in our Na-
tion's trade, a deterioration in the value of
the American dollar, and more recently in
Iran a threat to a major source of world
supplies each of these problems has
either aggravated or portends the aggra-
vation of our domestic inflationary pres-
sures. And each of them has been made
worse or would be making them worse in
the future without this legislation on the
desk before me.
The energy bills that I am about to sign
encompass the three major principles that
I outlined to the public and to the Con-
gress in April of 1977: first of all, that we
must learn to use energy efficiently. We
can no longer afford to run our factories,
our schools, our homes, our public build-
ings as though energy were cheap enough
and plentiful enough to waste. That's the
first principle.
Second, that we must provide adequate
incentives and predictability in the Fed-
1978
