Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 11, 1978
Norfolk, Virginia
Remarks at the Commissioning Ceremony for
the U.S.S. Mississippi. August 5, 1978
Senator Eastland, Senator Stennis, Gover-
nor Finch, Secretary of Defense Harold
Brown, Secretary of the Navy Claytor, Ad-
miral Kidd, Admiral Rickover, Captain
Hekman, distinguished officers and men
of the U.S.S. Mississippi, patriotic Ameri-
cans who have listened, I am sure, with
great attention to the fine address that we
have just had, reminding us of the basic
principles which have made our country
so great:
It's good to be back here in Norfolk, on
the Norfolk Navy Base, after so many
years. This is where I started my naval ca-
reer. It's where I started my married life.
It's where my oldest son was born. And
as has already been mentioned, my last
tour of duty here in Norfolk was as a
young officer, a lieutenant junior grade,
serving on the U.S.S. Mississippi.
I was electronics officer, gunnery officer,
doing experimental work. The U.S.S.
Mississippi was converted into an experi-
mental gunnery and radar ship on which
we tried out new naval techniques. You
just saw the finest missile-launching sys-
tem on Earth, and just aft of those missiles
is a 5-inch 54 gun. The first 5-inch 54
gun was fired on a ship under my super-
vision as electronics officer, on the U.S.S.
Mississippi. Those were not as exciting,
perhaps, as some of the new developments
in a modern navy, but after World War
II, they started us on the road to innova-
tion and flexibility that has kept our Na-
tion strong.
It's a pleasure for me as President to
share this occasion with representatives of
the people of Mississippi. I am very glad
to see here Mississippi's Governor Cliff
Finch and his daughter, Janet, who is the
U.S.S. Mississippi's sponsor.
I'm also glad that Marine Corps Com-
mandant General Lou Wilson, another
son of Mississippi, who has devoted his
life to our Nation's service, could be with
us on this ceremony.
And most of all, I'm honored to share
this dais with Senator James Eastland
and Senator John Stennis. Senator East-
land, as President pro tempore of the
Senate, is a senior Member of that body.
He's the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee and has served our Nation with in-
tegrity, with distinction, and with courage
for many years, and of that, Senator East-
land, I and the people of our country are
very proud. Thank you very much.
Senator John Stennis has worked long
and hard as chairman of the Senate
1383
