Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 9
that this country comes first, regardless of
their personal feelings.
And so, as we look to a new Congress,
the ability to work together, find the
rough edges in what we've done to polish
this piece of legislation, I believe this
country will recognize even though they
call it a stack here-I love it a little more
than that, because I do have some blood
in it but I do believe that this will be a
singular moment in the history of this
country. As we say to the rest of the world,
the free market system will work, and
we're going to get to it.
I thank you for the opportunity to be
here today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Bob Byrd has finally agreed to say a
word. Thank you. [Laughter]
SENATOR BYRD. Mr. President, someone
has said "Be bold and mighty forces will
come to your aid." You're the first Presi-
dent who has sent to the Congress a com-
prehensive national energy policy pro-
posal. It is a subject that has been around
a long time. It is one of the most divisive,
controversial, emotional, longstanding
issues that we have had to confront the
Congress in many years.
As you pointed out, Mr. Truman vetoed
a bill, and so did Mr. Eisenhower, that
dealt with natural gas pricing or deregu-
lation in one form or another. So, this
has been the toughest of all the issues as
far as I am concerned that I have ever seen
come before the Senate. And I want to
congratulate you as President of the
United States for having the courage and
the vision and the stick-to-it-iveness to
propose and to see this legislation through
to its fruition.
I also want to congratulate Speaker
O'Neill and the Members of the House
who worked so effectively and diligently
to make this day possible.
When I was in Europe in July at your
request, the foremost questions on the
minds of Mr. Callaghan, the Prime Min-
ister of England, Chancellor Schmidt of
Germany, and the leaders of Belgium,
dealt with energy. And they wanted to
know when the United States was going
to do something about its energy problem
and whether or not it had the discipline,
the self-discipline and the willpower to do
that. And I assured those leaders that the
Congress, much to their surprise, had not
buried the legislation, was going to enact
the legislation, and was going to put the
package on your desk before we ad-
journed. They had heard quite to the
contrary.
And I think that that assurance helped
in the forthcoming Bonn Summit, which
you attended, because they saw from the
congressional perspective that the legisla-
tion was not dead-and of course, re-
peatedly the tombstones had been erected
over this legislation. Never was I once in
doubt. And I assured those leaders we
were going to do it. We did it, and so, to-
day it's with particular gratification to my
heart that that word has been kept.
Now finally, I want to say that the men
on my side of the aisle-Henry Jackson,
Russell Long, Wendell Ford, all of the
other Senators who participated in com-
mittee, in the floor debate, and in con-
ference did a magnificent job, and I
personally am in their debt, as I feel that
the Senate is and as I feel that the country
is.
Dr. Schlesinger, Frank Moore, Dan
Tate, Bob Thompson, the other people
on your staff worked very closely with the
leadership in both Houses, and I think
that to all of them and to you great credit
is due. And finally, to our Nation I think
this is a great day.
There's a statue in Atlanta, Georgia,
on which there is the inscription, as you
should know. It's erected to the memory
of Benjamin Hill, and that inscription is
as follows:
1983
