Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ning of his career as a bomber pilot in the
Army Air Corps in World War II to his
service as an Air Force general and Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General
Brown served his country with distinction.
He preferred a cockpit to sitting behind a
desk, but wherever his country needed
him, he answered the call with honor.
George Brown was a forthright, cou-
rageous man who inspired the men and
women he served with and loved his
country. He was what he always intended
to be, a good soldier.
I extend my deepest sympathy to his
wife, Alice, and their three children.
Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe
Memorandum From the President.
December 6, 1978
Memorandum for the Vice President, the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of the
Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education
and Welfare, the Secretary of Transporta-
tion, the Secretary of Energy, the
Director, International Communication
Agency, the Administrator, Environ-
mental Protection Agency, the Chairman,
Board for International Broadcasting, the
Chairman, Commission on Civil Rights,
the Chairman, Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission, the Chairman, In-
ternational Trade Commission, the Presi-
dent, National Academy of Sciences, the
Chairman, National Endowment for the
Arts, the Chairman, National Endowment
for the Humanities, the Chairman, Na-
tional Science Foundation
This Administration attaches the great-
est significance to achieving full imple-
mentation of the Final Act of the Confer-
ence on Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope (CSCE). This document contains
solemn political pledges by the leaders of
the 35 States of Europe and North Amer-
ica which participated in the 1975 Hel-
sinki Summit-pledges to work toward
lowering the barriers between East and
West and improving the everyday lives of
their people.
I believe that our own record of imple-
mentation has been second to none among
the 35 participating States, but our work
is not complete. The Final Act pledges
us to strive constantly for improvement
both domestically, in the area of civil and
economic rights, and internationally, in
the expansion of our cooperation with the
other participating States. Other govern-
ments, including the Soviet Union, will
better understand the depth of our con-
cern for the full implementation of the
Helsinki pledges if we demonstrate that
we are working hard at home to fulfill
even more effectively our side of the Hel-
sinki bargain.
The work of each of your departments
and agencies touches upon important
and I ask you to keep these commitments
aspects of our Final Act commitments,
in mind as you develop your programs.
You should work with the Department of
State, and cooperate with the Commis-
sion on Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope, as they carry out their respective
responsibilities to assess implementation
and identify areas where American per-
formance can be improved. To facilitate
this task, I request that you designate an
official at the Assistant Secretary or the
Deputy Assistant Secretary level to serve
as CSCE contact. I will appreciate your
full cooperation with the Department of
State as it prepares the Administration's
2166
