Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 27, 1978
Wichita, Kansas
Remarks at a Rally for Bill Roy and John
Carlin. October 21, 1978
Senator Bill Roy-doesn't that sound
good? Well, it sounds good for the whole
country; Governor John Carlin-that al-
so sounds great—Congressman Dan Glick-
man; Congresswoman Martha Keys; dis-
tinguished officials of the Democratic
Party in Kansas, which is constantly
growing day by day, larger and larger,
stronger and stronger; my fellow Amer-
icans who realize that we have a great
country and we want to see it even
greater:
It's an honor for me to come back to
Kansas.
When I was first elected Governor of
Georgia, there was a man whom I met in
just a few days after the election, a man
who was an inspiration to me and to all
the other Governors who served with him,
who was kind of a guide for us, and who
set an example of sound management and
integrity, competence, and that was Bob
Docking.¹ And I think it's good that
Kansans remember the sound statesman-
ship that has been exemplified in him and
1 Former Governor of Kansas.
in your
your congressional delegation by
Democrats.
I've enjoyed replacing Republicans in
the White House. [Laughter] We've been
trying to turn the country around, trying
to manage the Government better, trying
to cut redtape. When I got there the Re-
publicans were cutting redtape, but they
were cutting it lengthwise. [Laughter]
We've had a good experience in the last
20 months. But I look forward to seeing
the Congress reconvene next January with
Bill Roy as the first Democratic Senator
to come from Kansas in, I believe, 46
years.
As you well know, he's a man of unique
character and ability and background and
experience. I think out of more than 200
million Americans, there are only 350
people who have both a degree in medi-
cine and one in law. And he's had an
ability as a Member of Congress, in the
House of Representatives, to assess long
before some of us realized it the intense
need to give better services to people,
particularly in the rural and small areas,
emergency medical care, and at the same
time cut the cost of this kind of care that
all of us need. He set up health mainte-
nance organizations, which gave us a
mechanism by which people could cooper-
1813
