Sept. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
down for Senator Long and others in the
Senate debate.
INDICTMENTS OF GSA PERSONNEL
I just got a memo here that a Federal
grand jury Friday indicted 18 persons on
charges stemming from the Government's
investigation of the scandal at the General
Services Administration. Where is that,
Jody?
PRESS SECRETARY POWELL. That's in
Baltimore. That's a Baltimore indictment.
THE PRESIDENT. That's the first in-
dictment. Well, I hope we can get it
straightened out.
PREDATOR CONTROL
Q. Mr. President, would you consider
rescinding or at least modifying the
stringency of Mr. Nixon's Presidential
order that banned the use of 1080 in the
control of coyotes? Sheep ranchers and
goat ranchers in Texas-I'm from Texas,
my name is Peeples are suffering ruin-
ous losses. I know of them going out of
business, and it's because of an animal
that is not endangered. You have it with-
in your power with the sweep of a pen to
do something about it.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to
answer that question. I've never discussed
it with Cecil Andrus or Bob Bergland. But
my present inclination would be to leave
the Executive order intact. I've not made
a study of it, but that's my present
thought.
COTTON DUST REGULATION
Q. Mr. President, Ernie Houdashell,
from Amarillo, Texas. Recently the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Adminis-
tration released the long-awaited cotton
dust standards. And in doing so, they put
an economic bind, a tremendous bind on
some segments of the cotton industry, pos-
sibly, that's going to close down some seg-
ments of the cotton industry. Are you ever
going to do anything about OSHA as far
as the people, these regulations? They're
running without control, so to speak, and
they are endangering industries like the
cotton industry. These cotton dust stand-
ards, they're not well founded according
to some experts.
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt if there's any
regulation that's been issued within the
last 12 months that I put more time on
personally than I did the standards on
cotton dust. You're talking about cotton
dust in textile mills, right?
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. Previously, the Re-
publican administration had advocated
standards and a method for enforcing
them that would have cost the industry an
estimated $7 billion, if I remember cor-
rectly. I think that's an accurate figure.
After quite a deep study by my Council
of Economic Advisers, also by my group
that controls inflation and tries to prevent
extraordinary burdens being placed on
producers and then consumers, and meet-
ing with the director of OSHA, who I
consider to be one of the best adminis-
trators in the Government, and also Ray
Marshall, we modified those standards
considerably and cut that cost, I would
say, to a fourth of what it was previously.
I think the present regulation is very
reasonable, the one that we've issued now.
And I'm sure that there are some who
don't want to change the standards at all.
But this has been a matter of concern to
administrations long before I became
President, and we've improved it greatly.
I think the regulation we issued is-
Q. It's being challenged in the courts
now by the National Cotton Council.
They are-
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that,
and that's their prerogative. But I think
the courts, when they review it, will rule
in our favor.
1674
