Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
July 12
able to buy our own goods that we would
like to sell.
Another thing that we need to do is to
have a successful multilateral trade nego-
tiation. We are very eager to see tariffs
and other trade obstacles removed. So far
we haven't had complete success. But to
the extent that these barriers to free inter-
national commerce are maintained, it
makes it much more difficult for us to al-
leviate these basic problems that we have
in trade balances.
As I said earlier, most of our trade
balance now comes from the purchase of
manufactured goods, not oil. Of course,
the nations like Japan and Germany, who
sell a lot of manufactured goods to us, like
to talk about our oil imports, but they
don't deplore the fact that we also buy
large quantities of manufactured goods
from your country and others.
But I think over a period of time, with
complete understanding of one another's
problems and a commitment on the part
of the leaders, political and economic
leaders, both within and out of govern-
ment, we can bring into more near bal-
ance these very wide differences that
presently exist in the trade among the
developed countries of the world.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
MR. BURNET. But already, Mr. Presi-
dent, there are many millions of people in
Europe and in America who are unem-
ployed and are likely to stay that way.
Now, if your talks fail, are we on the
brink of a big recession like the 1930's?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't believe so.
We analyze constantly in our country-
I'm sure you do in your own countries as
well-the underlying economic factors.
We compare them with the factors that
did exist at the time of the Great Depres-
sion and the subsequent, more moderate
recessions. One of the most pervasive is-
sues to be discussed at the London con-
ference 14 month ago was the extremely
high unemployment rate. This was the
most severe problem that I faced as I left
London and came back home.
I have only been in office 18 months,
and we have had a net increase in jobs
available in our own country of 6.4 mil-
lion, an unprecedented growth in job
opportunities. We've reduced the unem-
ployment level by 134 million persons, and
the unemployment rate about 2 percent,
a little bit more than 2 percent.
So, we've had good success in cutting
down the unemployment rate in our own
country. I know that other nations have
not had quite such good success yet. But
our growth rate in 1977 was very high.
At the same time we were increasing
employment opportunities, we also were
able to buy manufactured goods from
other nations. Other countries didn't grow
quite so fast and couldn't buy our goods.
And the present disparity in the value of
the dollar and trade balances are a result
of those factors.
But I don't anticipate any deterioration,
further, in the economic circumstances.
And if we can work in harmony with one
another, try to understand both common
problems and also individual, national
problems, and also assess accurately how
the action that we take at the summit
meeting can affect other nations in the
world, both those who are developed and
those which are developing, I think we
can act substantively to prevent a recur-
rence of the adverse economic circum-
stances, including a recession.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
MR. SEGUI. Mr. President, Western
solidarity is coming before or after U.S.
interests?
THE PRESIDENT. I find it difficult to
distinguish between the two. I think that
1255
