Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Oct. 10
These efforts will continue under the
Federal Employees Part-Time Career
Employment Act of 1978.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10126 is Public Law
95-437, approved October 10.
Bill Authorizing the Susan B.
Anthony Dollar Coin
Statement on Signing S. 3036 Into Law.
October 10, 1978
I have signed into law S. 3036, the
Susan B. Anthony Dollar Coin Act of
1978. This act authorizes the Secretary of
the Treasury to replace the current dollar
coin with the "Anthony dollar," a smaller,
more easily handled coin. I am confident
this act and the new dollar-will sub-
stantially improve our coinage system as
well as cutting Government coin produc-
tion costs.
I am particularly pleased that the new
dollar coin will-for the first time in his-
tory-bear the image of a great American
woman. The life of Susan B. Anthony ex-
emplifies the ideals for which our country
stands. The "Anthony dollar" will sym-
bolize for all American women the
achievement of their unalienable right to
vote. It will be a constant reminder of
nam-era, and to describe the actions I
will take to respond to the special prob-
lems a number of these Veterans still
face.
Veterans of World War I, World War
II and Korea have received the recogni-
tion and gratitude they deserve. They are
honored and remembered as men and
women who served their country. This
has not always been the case for those who
served during the War in Vietnam. In
many ways, their service was more painful
than in other eras: the selection process
was often arbitrary; the war was long and
brutal; the changes in warfare and inno-
vations in medicine meant that fewer
soldiers were killed than in other wars,
but a far greater percentage survived with
disabling injuries.
Because the war did not have the full
backing of the American public, neither
did those who fought in Vietnam. Many
civilians came to confuse their view of the
war with their view of those who were
called upon to fight it. They confused the
war with the warrior. Yet I know that all
Americans join me in stating that the
courage and patriotism of those who
served in Vietnam have earned them full
measure of honor and respect.
It is a tribute to the caliber of those
who served that most Vietnam-era Vet-
erans have already adjusted very success-
the continuing struggle for the equality fully to civilian life. Still, in many ways,
of all Americans.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3036 is Public Law
95-447, approved October 10.
Vietnam Era Veterans
Message to the Congress. October 10, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting this Message to report
on the progress of Veterans of the Viet-
the effects of the war in Vietnam linger
on. We have only begun to understand the
full impact of the conflict. As part of heal-
ing its wounds, we have recognized our
obligation to forget many harsh words
and rash acts, and to forgive those who
resisted the war. Of even greater import-
ance is our determination to recognize
those who did serve and to show our ap-
preciation for the sacrifices they made.
I have directed the Secretary of De-
fense to honor the memory of all those
1737
