Nov. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
export volume in dollars, $24 billion; this
year we'll pass $27 billion.
I just signed a new agricultural export
bill, while I was in Kansas recently, that
will let us make short-term loans for those
who'll buy agricultural products. It au-
thorizes the establishment of trade offices
in nations that are potential customers,
to let them know about the offer, the ex-
cellent products that we have to sell.
I think we're doing everything we can
within legal bounds to encourage export
sales. The final responsibility, however, is
on the producers of those products, in a
competitive world market, to sell their
own goods. And I don't know the gentle-
man to whom you refer, but some people
say if you put a total barrier against im-
ports, we can have a better chance to sell
our exports. That's obviously a fallacious
argument. Open trade opportunities are
much better for both sides. But in liter-
ally dozens of cases every month, I have
people, who want to have every possibility
to sell their own products, come and ask
me to erect trade barriers or tariffs or
quotas that would prevent any competi-
tion from coming in and challenging
them. But Americans benefit greatly from
trade.
open
And Bob Strauss is now negotiating in
Europe for a multilateral trade negotia-
tion agreement, which I think will help.
But we're doing all we can to improve ex-
ports and to cut down on unnecessary
imports, like excessive oil purchases.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, Senator Nelson of
Wisconsin 2 weeks ago suggested that
your voluntary wage-price control pro-
gram would not work and that it be sub-
stituted with a mandatory program for
the top 400 companies and unions. Why
would that not work?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any
case where mandatory price and wage
controls have ever worked.
I have said that I have no intention
of asking the Congress for that authority,
which I do not have under the law, nor
to impose wage and price controls in a
mandatory way-even if I had the au-
thority-except in time of national emer-
gency, when I thought the security of our
Nation was endangered. And that's a
pretty tight constraint, which I don't ever
anticipate occurring while I'm in office.
Even if I asked the Congress for man-
datory controls, I don't think we could
get 10 percent to support it. It's an idle
debate. And as long as I'm in the White
House, I have no intention of mandatory
price and wage controls.
Q. Even on a limited basis?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We are monitor-
ing the prices of those 400 top producers
of goods in our country-500, as a matter
of fact. And if they should exceed our
voluntary price guidelines, we have some
fairly effective measures to use to encour-
age compliance.
We've asked them to restrict their price
increases to one-half percent below the
increases they've experienced the last 2
years, and we're getting a very good re-
sponse from the business community in
this early stage. It's not apparent yet, be-
cause the details of the standards, which
are so very complicated, have not yet been
completely devised nor promulgated.
But I think mandatory wage and price
controls would be ill-advised. I see no
prospect of them being imposed in our
country.
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAMS
Q. With the high unemployment
among black teenagers in this country, is
the administration going to offer any kind
2066
