Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
stages of the legislation. They advised us
not to take that big a step at once.
So, there is a mid-level, GS-13 to
GS-15, where there are incentive rewards
planned. This will not be the same as the
Senior Executive Service, but it will
reward superior managerial experience
and obviously will open up to superiors
a chance to observe that good work, later
leading in one's career development to
the Senior Executive Service.
I believe I've got the GS levels correct,
but, Scotty, you might correct me.
MR. CAMPBELL. You do have them cor-
rect, and your point is exactly right. When
we were deciding at what levels the in-
centive pay system should apply and con-
sulted with top compensation people
from the private sector, they urged us to
adopt an incentive pay system, but take
a small step first as we learned how to use
it, and then perhaps could expand it
later as we became more competent in
its use. And it was for that reason that
we have 13 to 15 instead of the 9 to 15,
which is what I originally favored.
THE PRESIDENT. My guess is that in a
year or two after this system goes into
effect that there will be a persistent
demand from the GS-9, 10, 11, and 12
grades that they be included in the mid-
level incentive opportunity bracket. And
the Congress can always amend the law
to move down to lower levels, which
would let these fine managerial personnel
be rewarded and be given extra respon-
sibility and opportunities.
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RIGHTS
WAYNE F. BUCKLE. Mr. President, I
come from the American Federation of
Government Employees, and we're con-
cerned about some of the handling of
employees who are given a lot of publicity
in this procedure, namely, the question of
getting rid of people.
One of the things that's given me a lot
of concern in publicity that's happened
has been making it easier to fire people.
And I'm a little concerned that there can
get to be too much emphasis on this ques-
tion of how you get rid of people, versus
the due process that ought to be given
consideration in our society.
Our president, Ken Blaylock, has
worked with your administration and the
Congress in trying to resolve some of these
problems. And I think we've come up in
the bill that the House committee has re-
ported to deal with this a little more ef-
fectively than we started out with,
namely, that people who are accused of
wrongdoing or who are believed incom-
petent can be given the right of a hearing
and that the management must show a
preponderance of evidence that they
either have been guilty of misconduct or
incompetent.
Now, I believe that this is more in line
with our concepts of justice in dealing
with people who will have problems. And
I wonder if you are prepared to back the
House legislation as it comes from the
committee along those lines?
THE PRESIDENT. There are some
amendments that the House committee
put on with which I don't agree. I'm not
qualified to understand all the technical
changes that were made. But let me say
that I'm convinced that under this legis-
lation as it was proposed by us to the
Congress and it's been modified, I think,
according to your desires even since
then that the rights of Federal em-
ployees will be much better protected
than under the present system.
There will be a special counsel, a highly
qualified attorney, completely independ-
ent of me or anyone else, responsible only
to the employees themselves to guard
against abuse, to investigate, to present
evidence to the Merit System Protection
Board, which, as you know, is a three-
1366
