Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Nov. 16
rather take the chance of a mild recession
than what your people seem to think
would be the certainty of a deep depres-
sion in your program?
THE PRESIDENT. Sam [Sam Donald-
son, ABC News], the reason that Alfred
Kahn and I get in the posture of having
a tiny phrase extracted from an answer
is that the questions are extremely hypo-
thetical and all the caveats that are built
very carefully around the answer are
sometimes ignored. And then on TV and
so forth or in the news media a little tiny
phrase is used concerning an extreme
depression.
I watched on "Issues and Answers" two
or three Sundays ago when you asked Al-
fred Kahn repeatedly, "If you had to
choose between the two, which would you
go with?" And he said over and over, “I
do not anticipate this happening. I'm
reluctant to answer your question." You
said, "Well, if you answered the question,
how would it be?" He finally said it. And
it's really kind of an idle thing. And I'm
reluctant to say all my caveats and then
add two or three "ifs" and then ever
answer the question.
I just don't think we're going to have a
substantial economic setback next year. I
anticipate success with the anti-inflation
program. I can't anticipate perfect suc-
cess, complete success.
I think if we had a complete failure
and inflation ran rampant, then the pros-
pect for a recession and maybe a depres-
sion would be there. The definition of
recession, the way I understand it, is zero
growth for two quarters. We anticipate
still a growth rate that's fairly substantial
next year. Charlie Schultze's projections
still, on which we base our budget prep-
arations, is that if our inflation package
is moderately successful, then the growth
rate next year would average about 3
percent.
Q. Could I just follow up just one
more time? The reason I ask is not to trap
you into saying, "Aha! Deep depression
possibilities."
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. But I think one of the reasons most
people think that your dollar-strengthen-
ing program is successful, people around
the world said, "Well, he means busi-
ness." Do you really mean business?
THE PRESIDENT. I meant and do mean
business.
Q. All right. And looking ahead-and
I'm not predicting, I don't know anything
about it, a recession-but if there should
come a mild recession, people are going
to think, well, will he then, "Oh my
goodness, it's mild recession, and I'm go-
ing to start pumping the money in." In
other words, now, do we reverse policy
again, or do you just kind of hold to your
course?
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to hold to
my course.
Q. Come what may from the stand-
point of
THE PRESIDENT. With any foreseeable
circumstance, based on our current pro-
jections, I am going to hold my course.
Temporary aberrations or pressures from
interest groups will have very little effect.
And I think that the Congress has got-
ten the message on the desire of the
American people just as strongly or maybe
even more strongly than I have. I'm not
going to be taking a fiscally responsible
position opposed by a spendthrift Con-
gress. I think we're going to be working
in concert to bring about a responsible
but very strict fiscal policy.
I might point out to you that we've
made good progress already. In 1975, for
instance, the Federal deficit was 42
percent of our GNP-I think 4.6 percent,
to be accurate. Our projections for the
1980 fiscal year budget-no, these are
calendar years; I'm sorry-1980 calendar
2041
