July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rather have social programs financed by
other means than property taxes. I think
we've learned a lesson from their Propo-
sition 13. And whether or not Proposition
13 will be repeated in other States,
I think, though, would primarily relate
to the three factors that I described to
you earlier: State surplus, high property
taxes, and the financing of social pro-
grams out of property taxes.
CAPITAL GAINS TAXATION
Q. You recently spoke out quite strong-
ly against the Steiger amendment. Are
you totally against any change in capital
gains taxes? And if so, what method
would you like to see implemented for
better capital formation in the business
community?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, around this
very table, we've had meetings with the
members of the Business Roundtable,
others representing small business. I re-
member one day we had about 45 repre-
sentatives of small business around this
table, and their strong preference was to
have tax reductions through the corpo-
rate tax rate and perhaps some acceler-
ated depreciation and some investment
tax credit, not through removing capital
gains from the minimum tax.
When you analyze the beneficiaries of
the Steiger amendment, as I said in my
press conference, the beneficiaries are al-
most exclusively the very wealthy. I think
3,000 millionaires, as I said in my press
conference, get an average tax reduction
of $214,000, and the working families,
even those with moderate incomes up to
$30,000, get an average of only $1 a year
tax benefit from the Steiger amendment.
So, capital formation, stronger invest-
ment in new jobs and equipment, fac-
tories, is a very worthy goal.
I just think the Steiger amendment is
completely the wrong approach toward
reaching that goal. There's no balance of
benefits between the working American
and the very wealthy.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, the Congressional
Black Caucus has called upon you, I be-
lieve, to make a strong, perhaps, reaffir-
mation of affirmative action, that you do
so publicly. They've also asked you to
meet with them in that regard in light of
the recent Supreme Court decision re-
garding Allan Bakke. Can we expect such
a pronouncement forthcoming from you?
And if so, when? And do you intend to
meet with the Congressional Black
Caucus?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I meet with the
Congressional Black Caucus fairly reg-
ularly and consult with them almost on
a continuing basis, individual members or
about individual items.
I think it's accurate to say that the
Supreme Court decision on the Bakke
case was compatible with the desires of
the Black Caucus. We consulted with the
Black Caucus members and others before
the Attorney General presented the brief
from the Justice Department. And I read
the brief and approved it personally. It
called for a continuation of the affirma-
tive action option to alleviate racial dis-
crimination, either presently extant or the
apparent results of historical discrimina-
tion.
We have worked very closely through
the Justice Department to reassess all the
Federal programs to be sure that we not
only quietly had an affirmative action pro-
gram but an aggressive affirmative action
program.
I mentioned procurement a while ago.
We directed all the departments to pur-
chase a certain portion of Federal supplies
and equipment from black-owned and mi-
nority-owned firms. We've done the same
1230
