Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
here an essentially unspoiled laboratory
for the study of the northern boreal forest.
A rich variety of wildlife also occurs
within the area. Major portions of the
northwest arctic caribou herd
herd move
through the area in spring and fall migra-
tions. The area also includes one of only
two significant populations of the Alaskan
sheefish. The water environment is habi-
tat for nesting waterfowl, moose, and
muskrat. A relatively dense population
of grizzly and black bears, wolf, wolverine,
fox, otter, and other northern furbearing
mammals range over the entire area.
The land withdrawn and reserved by
this Proclamation for the protection of the
archeological, geological, biological, and
other phenomena enumerated above sup-
ports now, as it has in the past, the unique
subsistence culture of the local residents.
The continued existence of this culture,
which depends on subsistence hunting,
and its availability for study, enhances the
historic and scientific values of the nat-
ural objects protected herein because of
the ongoing interaction of the subsistence
culture with these objects. Accordingly,
the opportunity for local residents to en-
gage in subsistence hunting is one of the
values to be protected and will continue
under the administration of the monu-
ment.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34
Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes the
President, in his discretion, to declare by
public proclamation historic landmarks,
historic and prehistoric structures, and
other objects of historic or scientific inter-
est that are situated upon the lands owned
or controlled by the Government of the
United States to be national monuments,
and to reserve as part thereof parcels of
land, the limits of which in all cases shall
be confined to the smallest area compat-
ible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by Sec-
tion 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat.
225, 16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that
there are hereby set apart and reserved as
the Kobuk Valley National Monument
all lands, including submerged lands, and
waters owned or controlled by the United
States within the boundaries of the area
depicted as the Kobuk Valley National
Monument on the map numbered
KOVA-90,010 attached to and forming
a part of this Proclamation. The area re-
served consists of approximately 1,710,000
acres, and is the smallest area compatible
with the proper care and management of
the objects to be protected. Lands, includ-
ing submerged lands, and waters within
these boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument upon acquisition of title
thereto by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
tion, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument is
subject to valid existing rights, including,
but not limited to, valid selections under
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and
under or confirmed in the Alaska State-
hood Act (48 U.S.C. Note preceding Sec-
tion 21).
2131
