Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
commitment to NATO, waste the re-
sources available for defense, and weaken
our Nation's military capabilities in the
future.
I will be glad to cooperate with Con-
gress in passing a more responsible bill,
and I urge the Members of Congress to
face that duty as soon as they return from
their recess. The Nation's interest and
my oath of office require me to veto this
bill and to seek a stronger defense for our
country.
them face to face, trying to work out the
differences between them.
Since then, the interrelationships which
brought us such high hopes last winter
have deteriorated rapidly. In spite of our
best efforts, recently, those peace talks
broke down completely, not only at the
high level of the Prime Minister and
President but even at a lower level involv-
ing cabinet officers themselves. Even
when Secretary Vance had scheduled a
trip to the Mideast, we could not get the
Mr. Gerstenzang [James Gerstenzang, leaders to agree to meet.
Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
CAMP DAVID MEETING ON THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, your direct involve-
ment in the Middle East summit confer-
ence next month is seeming to be a high-
risk gamble. Could you say what led you
to take this step and what are the risks?
What happens if this effort fails?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, first of all,
that we don't act just as a noninterested
mediator or message carrier in the Mid-
east negotiations. Our own national se-
curity is vitally involved, not only in main-
taining peace around the world but es-
pecially in the Middle East, and we have
devoted our utmost effort to bringing
about a peaceful resolution of the long-
standing Middle Eastern disputes.
I have met in small groups and pri-
vately with Prime Minister Begin and
with President Sadat on many occasions.
I think I know them both quite well, and
I am absolutely convinced that both men
want peace and the people in both na-
tions genuinely want peace.
All of us were pleased last November
when the exchange of visits took place,
Sadat going to Jerusalem, Begin going to
Ismailia. It was one of the happiest few
weeks of my career as President not to be
involved in those negotiations and to see
It is a very high risk thing for me politi-
cally, because now I think if we are un-
successful at Camp David, I will certainly
have to share part of the blame for that
failure. But I don't see that I could do
anything differently, because I'm afraid
that if the leaders do not meet and do not
permit their subordinates to meet in a
continuing series of tough negotiations
that the situation in the Middle East
might be much more serious in the future
even than it is now.
So, I decided on my own, and later got
the concurrence of my top advisers, in-
cluding Secretary of State Vance and the
Vice President and others, to invite both
those men to meet with me at Camp
David. We do not have any assurance of
success. I do not anticipate being com-
pletely successful there and having a
peace treaty signed in that brief period
of time. But if we can get them to sit
down and discuss honestly and sincerely
their desires for peace, to explore the
compatibilities among them, to identify
very clearly the differences, try to resolve
those differences, then I think we can
set a framework for peace in the future.
It may result only in a redetermination
or recommitment to continue subsequent
negotiations. We might make more prog-
ress than that. But we will go there as
a full partner in the discussions, depend-
ing primarily, however, on the two na-
1440
