Nov. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Greek Cypriots, they really prefer to ne-
gotiate with one another without our
country being involved directly. And
when a third party is required to organize
or to enhance the discussions, almost
everyone agrees that it ought to be the
United Nations, rather than us.
So, although progress has been made,
compared to what it was before the em-
bargo was lifted, I'm not at liberty to dis-
cuss the status of the negotiations.
If you all would just come by, and we
will get a photograph made.
I want to thank you again for being
with us. I didn't thank you at the be-
ginning, but it's very helpful to me to
have you come to the White House and
meet with my own staff and ask me your
good questions.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:17 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the While House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on November 18.
Leo J. Ryan
Statement on the Death of the Representative
From California. November 19, 1978
I am saddened by the death of Con-
gressman Leo J. Ryan, an educator who
went on to a 22-year career of public serv-
ice at the local, State, and national levels.
His concern for environmental values
led him to the chairmanship of the Gov-
ernment Operations Subcommittee on
Environment, Energy, and Natural Re-
sources, where he became an authority
on the problems of nuclear waste disposal.
Congressman Ryan had taught in the
Watts ghetto to gain an understanding
of educational issues in the slums and once
spent a week as a voluntary prisoner to
examine penitentiary conditions. It was
this drive to get his information at first
hand that led to his tragic death.
Rosalynn and I join his family and his
constituents in their shock and grief.
NOTE: Congressman Ryan was killed on No-
vember 18 by members of the People's Temple,
a religious cult, during his investigation of the
People's Temple commune in Jonestown,
Guyana.
Death of Three Newsmen
in Guyana
Statement by the White House Press Secretary.
November 20, 1978
The President has asked me to convey
the shock and grief both he and the First
Lady share over the deaths of the three
American newsmen in Guyana.
He wishes to express his deepest con-
dolences to the families of Don Harris
and Robert Brown, of the National
Broadcasting Corporation, and Gregory
Robinson, of the San Francisco Examiner.
These three men were all hard-driving,
talented professionals who lost their lives
while pursuing the highest traditions of
journalism.
On behalf of the President, Vice Presi-
dent Mondale is personally calling their
families to express his
families to express his sympathies and
condolences.
NOTE: The three newsmen were killed on
November 18 by members of the People's
Temple, while accompanying Congressman
Leo J. Ryan on his investigation of the Peo-
ple's Temple commune in Jonestown, Guyana.
Press Secretary Jody Powell read the state-
ment at 2 p.m. to reporters assembled in the
Briefing Room at the White House.
2068
