Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
be protected and will continue under the
administration of the monument.
Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906
(34 Stat. 225, 16 U.S.C. 431), authorizes
the President, in his discretion, to declare
by public proclamation historic land-
marks, historic and prehistoric structures,
and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands
owned or controlled by the Government
of the United States to be national monu-
ments, and to reserve as part thereof
par-
cels of land, the limits of which in all cases
shall be confined to the smallest area com-
patible with the proper care and manage-
ment of the objects to be protected.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
by the authority vested in me by Section 2
of the Act of June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225,
16 U.S.C. 431), do proclaim that there
are hereby set apart and reserved as the
Yukon Flats National Monument all
lands, including submerged lands, and
waters owned or controlled by the United
States within the boundaries of the area
depicted as Yukon Flats National Monu-
ment on the map numbered FWS-81-00-
1514 attached to and forming a part of
this Proclamation. The area reserved con-
sists of approximately 10,600,000 acres,
and is the smallest area compatible with
the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected. Lands, including
submerged lands, and waters within these
boundaries not owned by the United
States shall be reserved as a part of the
monument upon acquisition of title there-
to by the United States.
All lands, including submerged lands,
and all waters within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated
and withdrawn from entry, location, selec-
tion, sale or other disposition under the
public land laws, other than exchange.
There is also reserved all water necessary
to the proper care and management of
those objects protected by this monument
and for the proper administration of the
monument in accordance with applicable
laws.
The establishment of this monument
is subject to valid existing rights, includ-
ing, but not limited to, valid selections
under the Alaska Native Claims Settle-
ment Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.), and under or confirmed in the
Alaska Statehood Act (48 U.S.C. Note
preceding Section 21).
Nothing in this Proclamation shall be
deemed to revoke any existing with-
drawal, reservation or appropriation, in-
cluding any public land order effecting a
withdrawal under Section 17(d) (1) of
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
43 U.S.C. 1616(d) (1); however, the na-
tional monument shall be the dominant
reservation. Nothing in this Proclamation
is intended to modify or revoke the terms
of the Memorandum of Understanding
dated September 1, 1972, entered into be-
tween the State of Alaska and the United
States as part of the negotiated settlement
of Alaska v. Morton, Civil No. A-48-72
(D. Alaska, Complaint filed April 10,
1972).
The Secretary of the Interior shall
promulgate such regulations as are appro-
priate, including regulation of sport hunt-
ing, and of the opportunity to engage in a
subsistence lifestyle by local residents.
The Secretary may close this national
monument, or any portion thereof, to
subsistence uses of a particular fish, wild-
life or plant population or to sport hunt-
ing of a particular fish or wildlife popula-
tion if necessary for reasons of public
safety, administration, or to ensure the
natural stability or continued viability of
such population.
Warning is hereby given to all unau-
thorized persons not to appropriate, in-
2143
