July 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ness over time, to accept and facilitate
structural change. Measures to prevent
such change perpetuate economic ineffi-
ciency, place the burden of structural
change on trading partners and inhibit the
integration of developing countries into
the world economy. We are determined
in our industrial, social, structural, and
regional policy initiatives to help sectors
in difficulties, without interfering with in-
ternational competition and trade flows.
20. We note the need for countries with
large current accounts deficits to increase
exports and for countries with large cur-
rent accounts surpluses to facilitate in-
creases in imports. In this context, the
United States is firmly committed to im-
prove its export performance and is
examining measures to this end. The
Prime Minister of Japan has stated that
he wishes to work for the increase of im-
ports through the expansion of domestic
demand and various efforts to facilitate
imports. Furthermore, he has stated that
in order to cope with the immediate situa-
tion of unusual surplus, the Government
of Japan is taking a temporary and ex-
traordinary step of calling for moderation
in exports with the aim of keeping the
total volume of Japan's exports for the
fiscal year of 1978 at or below the level of
fiscal year 1977.
21. We underline our willingness to in-
crease our co-operation in the field of for-
eign private investment flows among in-
dustrialized countries and between them
and developing countries. We will inten-
sify work for further agreements in the
OECD and elsewhere.
22. In the context of expanding world
economic activity, we recognize the re-
quirement for better access to our coun-
tries' markets for the products of the de-
veloping countries. At the same time we
look to increasing readiness on the part
of the more advanced developing coun-
tries to open their markets to imports.
RELATIONS WITH DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES
23. Success in our efforts to strengthen
our countries' economies will benefit the
developing countries, and their economic
progress will benefit us. This calls for joint
action on the basis of shared responsibil-
ity.
24. In the years ahead the developing
countries, particularly those most in need,
can count on us for an increased flow of
financial assistance and other resources
for their development. The Prime Min-
ister of Japan has stated that he will
strive to double Japan's official develop-
ment assistance in three years.
We deeply regret the failure of the
COMECON countries to take their due
share in the financial assistance to devel-
oping countries and invite them once
more to do so.
25. The poorer developing countries
require increased concessional aid. We
support the soft loan funds of the World
Bank and the three regional develop-
ment banks. We pledge our governments
to support replenishment of the Interna-
tional Development Association on a
scale that would permit its lending to rise
annually in real terms.
26. As regards the more advanced de-
veloping countries, we renew our pledge
to support replenishment of the multi-
lateral development banks' resources, on
the scale needed to meet the growing
needs for loans on commercial terms. We
will encourage governmental and private
co-financing of development projects
with these banks.
The co-operation of the developing
countries in creating a good investment
climate and adequate protection for for-
eign investment is required if foreign pri-
vate investment is to play its effective role
in generating economic growth and in
stimulating the transfer of technology.
1314
