Dec. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ican grain overseas, and by dictating the
decisions that farmers should make them-
selves.
We have ended grain embargoes, once
and for all. The Congress has passed a
superb new farm bill, and our Democratic
Congress and new legislation has untied
the farmers' hands. Farm exports, so vital
to our balance of trade, broke all records
year before last. They're breaking all rec-
ords this year, and farm income, net farm
income, is up 25 percent. We Democrats
are committed to what they have long de-
served and are now beginning to get-a
decent and fair income for American
farmers.
And for the first time in 40 years, we
have actually deregulated a major indus-
try. Now the airlines are making more
money, more Americans are flying, and
they are paying less. Now, that's what I
call free enterprise under Democrats. And
next year—next year—we'll bring similar
benefits to Americans by deregulating the
surface transportation industry.
Republicans promise tax cuts. We
Democrats have cut taxes nearly $25 bil-
lion. The Republicans left us the biggest
budget deficit in American history. We
have added new resources for human
needs, strengthened the American dol-
lar overseas, and cut that deficit $30 bil-
lion. Large deficits fuel the flames of in-
flation, so we must cut them even more,
and we will, for inflation threatens all
our gains and all our hopes for continued
growth.
Inflation is robbing those whom we
most want and need to help-working
families, the pensioner, the widow, and
the poor. It breeds a narrow politics of
fear. It's an illusion to believe we can pre-
serve a commitment to compassionate
and progressive government if we fail to
bring inflation under control.
Each of us must do our part, but
government must lead. I have set my
budget goals. I am determined to meet
them. Short-term sacifices must be made.
But we will balance those sacrifices fairly.
And if we err in this balance, it will be on
the side of those who are most in need.
That's the way Democrats govern.
By joining together to control infla-
tion now, we can lay the foundation for
an extended era of growth and prosper-
ity which all Americans can share with
more stable prices, with new jobs and op-
portunity, with new security and hope.
And as President, I have no alternative
except to bring inflation under control.
As Democrats and as partners, we will
meet this challenge, and we will meet it
successfully.
Now, most of us have dreams, the same
dreams for our children and our grand-
children the opportunity to learn in
schools that are challenging and which
nurture them, to be protected against
disease, to grow up in good neighbor-
hoods, to know the taste of clean water
and the smell of fresh air and the pleas-
ure of beauty, natural beauty around
them. We want a nation, as our Constitu-
tion promises, where the only limits on
our children are the talents God gave them
and their own determination and hard
work.
In the past 2 years, we have added more
new resources to educate America's chil-
dren than ever before in our history.
Across this country, 500,000 more handi-
capped children, 200,000 more children
of migrant workers, 125,000 children who
do not speak English as their native
language-all children who have lived on
the outskirts of hope too long-will start
life now with a better chance because of
our Democratic partnership. And for the
first time, every young person in our coun-
try, everyone who wants to go to college
or vocational school is now eligible for a
grant or a loan.
2192
