Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Inspector General in twelve major de-
partments and agencies. Today, I am
directing that significant features of the
Inspector General program be extended
throughout the Federal Government.
Eliminating waste, fraud, and error
should be as important to you as your
program objectives.
First, by January 31, each of you
should develop for my review a compre-
hensive plan setting the course for your
agency in this overall effort. You should
immediately designate a single official,
accountable directly to you, to oversee
preparation of the plan and to monitor
its implementation for you. The plan
should include at a minimum:
• An analysis of all resources now de-
voted to the audit and investigation
functions and the capacity of your
department or agency to prevent and
deal with problems of waste, fraud
and error.
• Your planned approach to using your
agency's audit and investigation re-
sources in a concerted effort to deal
with issues of waste, fraud and error,
especially in those programs and
activities you deem most vulnerable.
Second, I expect each of you person-
ally to review and respond to major alle-
gations by the Comptroller General and
others of waste, fraud or error.
Fifth, I have asked the Attorney Gen-
eral to prepare an action plan to assure
that investigations by Inspectors General
and similar officers are coordinated with
other investigative and prosecutorial
activities.
Finally, I am directing the Chairman
of the Civil Service Commission (or, fol-
lowing its establishment, the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management),
working with the Attorney General and
the Secretary of the Treasury, to improve
the training of investigative and audit
staffs throughout the Executive Branch.
JIMMY CARTER
Protection of Journalistic
Work Products
Statement Announcing Intention To Propose
Legislation. December 13, 1978
Of all the basic rights that contribute
to human development, one of the most
important is the first amendment freedom
of the press. A free press independent of
government control and expressing a
variety of viewpoints is crucial to both
democracy and individual liberty.
Since last May, my administration has
been trying to explore the proper consti-
tutional way for us and the Congress to-
Third, I would like each of you to sub-gether to correct the threat of encroach-
mit to me your suggestions on govern-
ment-wide action I can take to reduce
waste, fraud and error.
Fourth, I am assigning the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget re-
sponsibility for overseeing this program to
eliminate fraud and waste for me. He will
provide additional guidance as appropri-
ate. He will be responsible for keeping me
informed of progress under the program
and activities of Inspectors General and
their counterparts in the agencies.
ment on freedom of the press that was
raised in the Stanford Daily case.
As a result of this work, I will soon
propose legislation that would restrict
police intrusion into news media offices,
and would give members of the press
notice and an opportunity to challenge re-
quests for the products of their reporting
work.
I think this is a major step forward in
protecting the integrity of the freedom of
the press.
2234
