Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural
Organization
Nomination of U.S. Representatives and
Alternate Representatives to the 20th Session
of the General Conference.
September 26, 1978
The President today announced the
persons whom he will nominate to be
Representatives and Alternate Represent-
atives of the United States to the 20th
session of the General Conference of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),
to be held in Paris from October 24 to
November 28. They are:
Representatives
JOHN E. REINHARDT, Director of the U.S. In-
ternational Communication Agency;
ESTEBAN TORRES, U.S. Permanent Represent-
ative to UNESCO;
HALE CHAMPION, Under Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare;
SARAH G. POWER, chairwoman of the U.S.
National Commission for UNESCO, and re-
gent of the University of Michigan;
ing concern recently, has been the very
high negative trade balance. We have im-
ported a great deal more than we have
exported.
There are obviously several reasons for
this. One is the extraordinary increase in
the imports of oil which, as you know,
have increased 800 percent in the last 6
years, so that we now import about half
our total oil. This has created inflationary
pressures. It has caused some doubt about
our Nation's leadership, and we have been
considering for a number of months what
we might do about this problem.
I know the obvious cause for high trade
imbalance is not exporting enough of the
products that we ourselves can produce.
Secretary Juanita Kreps, Secretary of
Commerce, has been working with a task
force recently in trying to resolve this par-
ticular aspect of our problem.
Obviously, exported goods create much
needed jobs for Americans, and it cor-
rects the defects that I've just described
to you.
We've never been a nation that em-
WILLIAM ATTWOOD, president and publisher phasized exports enough, because we've
of Newsday, Inc.
Alternate Representatives
MATHILDE KRIM, associate member of the
Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Re-
search;
JOSEPH D. DUFFEY, Chairman of the National
Endowment for the Humanities;
ARTHUR K. SOLOMON, professor of biophysics
at Harvard Medical School;
LEILA FRASER, chief administrator to the mayor
of Milwaukee;
MAURICE A. FERRE, mayor of Miami.
United States Export Policy
Remarks Announcing Administration
Proposals. September 26, 1978
One of the problems that our Nation
has faced for several years, but with grow-
been so highly blessed with natural re-
sources, approaching a degree almost of
self-sufficiency.
We've never depended upon exports as
have other nations who trade with us like
Japan, Germany, and others. But there's a
growing consciousness in our country now
that we would like to accelerate, that ex-
port commitments should be a part of
every producer in our country, both large,
medium-sized, and small.
Many people don't know how to ex-
port. They don't know how to package
goods for sales overseas, how to get their
products to a transportation center, how
to deliver and handle the paperwork, how
to locate foreign buyers. These are the
kinds of educational processes that we
hope to explore, also.
1630
