Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Dec. 1
about being inaugurated as President.
[Laughter]
The national Rural Electric Coopera-
tives have always been close to me, and to
my family, as you well know. Those of
you who know anything about my back-
ground realize this. The formation of the
REA during the late thirties opened up
a new opportunity for an expanded and
productive life. My own family's knowl-
edge and awareness and influence ex-
panded beyond the boundaries of our
farm, really for the first time.
My father was an original REA director
and frequently in order to fight for the
life of the embryonic group, would come
to Washington to go to national conven-
tions, marshal the efforts of other farm-
ers, interested groups, and it added a new
dimension to his life, and ultimately to
mine, as well.
My own sense is that I and my admin-
istration have almost complete compati-
bility with the purposes of the rural elec-
trics today. There may be times when,
because of an absence of communication
or a difference in technique or perhaps a
time schedule, that we don't completely
agree on how to address controversial
problems, or how to deal with pressures
or questions that confront us all. But
there's a basic compatibility which I want
to maintain and also to enhance and to
strengthen.
One of the prerequisites for achieving
common purposes is to have constant un-
derstanding and communication. I think
if you understand what our desires are,
what our programs are, what our time
schedules are, what our budget constraints
are, it's much easier for you to cooperate
with us and to help us achieve those com-
mon ideals and goals. If there's a doubt or
uncertainty or perhaps misinformation on
which you base your own assessments, then
the concerns are not only unwarranted,
but they also prevent our acting in com-
mon to improve the quality of life of peo-
ple who look to you and to me for leader-
ship.
This afternoon you'll get a fairly thor-
ough briefing, to the extent that you de-
sire it, from the leaders in my own admin-
istration-Community Services, Labor,
Agriculture, of course, Energy, White
House staff, and others. And I want you
to take full advantage of this to the extent
that
you are willing and able. We've got
some distinguished congressional leaders
here, as well, who share with you and me
the responsibility for improving the qual-
ity of life in small cities and towns, on the
farms and ranches of our country.
In many ways, we detect and live with
a broad range of interrelated responsibili-
ties: environmental quality, conservation,
education, housing, health, transporta-
tion, international trade arrangements,
the improvement of net income for farm
families, enhancing the export of agricul-
tural products, reducing or perhaps even
eliminating the disharmonies that some-
times exist between growing suburban re-
gions served by you and the urban regions
which also house Americans about whom
we are concerned. These kinds of things
bind us together, and I think a realization
of the complexity of the issues is impor-
tant for us all.
I know enough about your own back-
ground, your own commitments, your own
history, your own statesmanship to realize
that you have never taken a narrowly fo-
cused and selfish position on issues that
affect America. It would be easy for you
to do it, but you've never done it. And I
know in basic considerations of national
defense, international relations, what's
best for our major cities, you representing
the rural areas of our country have always
taken an enlightened and constructive and
unselfish position.
I have tried since I've been in office to
eliminate some of the obstacles that have
2107
