Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
has to win an ultimate victory in spite of
tremendous, adverse odds.
The first time I came to New Hamp-
shire was in 1974 to campaign with
Norm D'Amours. We walked the streets
and shook factory shift hands, and I
learned then about the intense, personal
commitment of New Hampshire people
toward government.
You have very good political judg-
ment. The election of Congressman
D'Amours then, and again in '76, your
long-time commitment to the superb
leadership of Senator McIntyre, the re-
cent election of John Durkin, and last
but not particularly least, your support
of me in 1976-thank you for it. I'm glad
to be with you.
THE COAL STRIKE
Just before walking into this audito-
rium, I received a report from Washing-
ton that the coal mine operators and the
coal miners are willing to continue their
negotiations today. This is a very difficult
negotiating process. It has broken down
on several occasions, but the constant in-
volvement of Secretary of Labor Mar-
shall has been successful so far in at least
continuing the discussions, the dialog, the
probing for an agreement.
If no agreement is reached, it would be
a severe blow to the miners themselves. It
would be a severe blow to the coal mine
operators and owners. It would be a se-
vere blow to the collective bargaining
process and, also, a severe blow to our
country.
We hope and we pray that we can be
successful. The prospects right now are
not particularly encouraging. But we are
dedicated to continuing that process to
avoid much more serious intrusion into
the free enterprise system by the Federal
Government through various means.
So we will be continuing today and
tomorrow, if necessary, these discussions.
It's just a late news item in which I
thought you might be interested.
I'd like to make a brief statement on
an issue that is important to you here in
New Hampshire and around the country,
and then I'll start answering questions for
roughly an hour and 15 minutes. I have
heard through the grapevine that you've
been carefully preparing your questions.
I don't know what any of them will be,
but I'll try to do the best I can to be
frank with you. Young people don't like
evasion, they don't like equivocating, and
I know that my own standard of perform-
ance as a President is going to be judged
by you according to how well and how
truthfully and how frankly and thoroughly
I answer your questions.
FEDERAL CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
When I came to Washington, a little
more than a year ago for the first time,
I was surprised and pleased to find how
good our Government was. But I'm still
not satisfied, and I believe it can be better.
One of the ways it can be better is
through Government reorganization and,
specifically, through civil service reform.
For more than half our Nation's history,
the Government was changed almost en-
tirely and completely from top to bottom,
every time a new President went in office.
The party that won the election would
kick out all the old officeholders and re-
place them with new ones—maybe or
maybe not qualified-who were loyal to
the victorious candidate for President.
A large part of every President's time
and energy was spent just taking up per-
sonnel matters. Abraham Lincoln said
that it was the most difficult thing that
he had to contend with as President. This
system inevitably led to government by
favoritism, it led to corruption and in-
competence. There was no room there
366
