Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 5
information or assistance as the Commis-
sion deems necessary to carry out its func-
tions under this Order. Each agency shall,
to the extent permitted by law, furnish
such information or assistance to the
Commission.
1-302. The Commission is authorized
to request from any State agency such
information and assistance as the Com-
mission deems necessary. It is authorized
to obtain such information and assistance
to the extent permitted by State law.
1-303. Members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation. While
engaged in the work of the Commission,
members may receive travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703).
1-304. The Secretary of Defense shall
furnish to the Commission necessary ad-
ministrative support.
1-305. All necessary expenses incurred
in connection with the work of the Com-
mission, to the extent permitted by law,
shall be paid from funds available to the
Secretary of Defense.
1-4. General Provision.
1-401. No member of the Commission
shall, while serving on the Commission
or for a period of one year thereafter, be
eligible to be nominated to fill a position
as a judge on the Court of Military
Appeals.
1-402. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission, shall be performed by the
Secretary of Defense in accordance with
the guidelines and procedures established
by the Administrator of General Services.
1-403. The Commission shall terminate
on December 31, 1978, unless sooner
extended.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 5, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:18 a.m., June 6, 1978]
United States Tax Court
Nominating Commission
Executive Order 12064. June 5, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in or-
der to create in accordance with the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App. I) an advisory commission on the
membership of the United States Tax
Court, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Commission.
1-101. There is established the United
States Tax Court Nominating Commis-
sion. The Commission shall be comprised
of six members appointed by the Presi-
dent.
1-102. Not more than three members
shall be officials of the Federal govern-
ment. The Federal members shall include
the General Counsel of the Department of
the Treasury, who shall chair the Com-
mission. The private members shall have
special expertise in the field of Federal
taxation.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. When notified by the President
that he desires its assistance in filling a va-
cancy on the United States Tax Court,
the Commission shall conduct inquiries to
identify persons who may be qualified to
serve in the position and shall conduct
1039
