Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 4
bring about a settlement between those
two groups.
So, I have mixed emotions about it. I
wish that I was favorably assessed by
every news reporter and by every poll. But
I've tried to be frank with you. My per-
sonal rating is high; the performance of
my administration causes me some con-
cern in the polls. But it's because of some
of the difficulties of issues we've tackled
and the lack of cooperation of people who
don't see things the same way I do.
Let me say this-I've got to go, I've an-
other appointment at 12—but let me say
this: I don't believe I've met with a group
at any time in the last 13 months that had
such a wide range of questions, and ques-
tions that are more profound in their im-
portance. This is typical of young people
your age.
You have a lot of responsibility on you
as do I. Your position in society is one of
great privilege. The fact that you're here
today shows that you've been fortunate,
not just endowed with talent and intelli-
gence but also you come probably from
a good, solid family background or have
had benefits from government in getting
scholarships that others couldn't get. And
you have an advantage and a certain flex-
ibility of thought and analysis and per-
spective and a lack of heavy responsibility
on your shoulders that constrains your in-
dependence of thought and also mobility.
That won't always be the case. In a few
years you'll be employed in a major cor-
poration or have your own business as-
signment or be teaching school or be
working in a bank. And when that time
comes, perhaps surprisingly to you, your
freedom of expression and freedom of ac-
tion and freedom of analysis will be se-
verely restricted, because there will be an
inclination on your part to conform to
what the local school board or the prin-
cipal of the school wants or what the pres-
ident of the bank thinks or what your
customers at a filling station might want
you to believe.
And I really hope, as the President of
the greatest country on Earth, that you
won't relinquish your right and, even, re-
sponsibility for independent analysis and
deep inquisitiveness and expressions of
concern and open expressions of criticism
when public officials like myself don't
reach the standards that you've set for our
country.
This is important to me. I'm a human
being like you. I have a background per-
haps similar to many of yours. Three years
ago, I was completely unknown. I didn't
have any money. I worked on my own
with my family to become known enough
for me to get elected to the highest office
in our country. And that shows what our
Nation can do.
I'm trying to do a good job. I'll make
my share of mistakes. When I'm right, I
need your support and your public ex-
pression of support. And I believe that in
spite of its failures and faults and serious
mistakes in the past which have caused
doubt among people about the integrity
and meaning of our government, that
you won't lose that faith.
We have a kind of a self-correcting
mechanism in the United States in that
I'm directly responsible to you. And the
public opinion polls, expressed by people
who are well educated or have a special
knowledge of a subject, are very impor-
tant. And the voice of those with courage
is very important.
Our country is so strong and so influ-
ential in the rest of the world. We're so
fortunate in our country, not only in
material things but in the freedom of
spirit that we enjoy.
I hope that you'll emphasize not just
your criticism but an expression of your
faith and belief in the finest aspects of
what America is.
467
