Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The United States will give its unqual-
ified support to what you and your part-
ners in the Nine are doing to strengthen
European cooperation, for we see Euro-
pean strength and unity as a boon and
not as a threat to us. The real threat to
the interests of us all would be economic
weakness and disunity.
The fifth and the final item on the new
agenda for democracy is to cooperate
among ourselves in adapting to global
change. The same factors which led to our
economic successes over the past two gen-
erations-science, technology, education,
health, will, and wisdom of our people-
have also altered the interrelationship be-
tween the industrial democracies on the
one hand and the developing world on
the other.
European nations, individually or to-
gether, also have an increasing role to
play beyond this continent, particularly in
reordering relations between North and
South.
It was less than 100 years ago that the
European powers met and divided the
continent of Africa among you, and yet
today colonialism has nearly ended. Be-
fore World War II, 80 percent of the
world's land mass and 75 percent of its
people were under Western authority, but
today there are more than 100 new na-
tions, each with insistent needs and in-
sistent demands. A few years ago, the
West made virtually all the decisions
about the global economy, but now im-
portant resources are also under the con-
trol of the developing countries—as the
energy crisis has made very clear. The
councils of economic action can no longer
be limited just to a few.
During this trip, I've seen how the
developing nations are creating a new
role for themselves in the world's eco-
nomic system, redistributing global power,
posing new global problems, and assum-
ing new rights and new responsibilities.
We've long understood that greater in-
dividual equality can bring forth greater
prosperity in our domestic societies. But
now we also see how greater equality
among nations can promote the health
of the global economy, including our own.
No nation, nor any small group of nations,
can any longer shape its destiny alone.
In proposing the North-South confer-
ence, President Giscard spoke of creating
new forms of international cooperation.
What he said then stands as a watch-
word of all our efforts together, and I
quote him again: "(This) should not con-
stitute a victory for some countries over
others, achieved by taking advantage of
temporary power relationships. Rather
it must be a victory of mankind over
itself. . . .”
If we move in that spirit and direct our
efforts together to solving the problems
that face the nations of the world, then
we shall surely gain that victory of which
he spoke. We will vindicate our deep and
abiding faith in the strength of democ-
racy to grow and to develop with the
times.
Six days ago, I left the United States on
a tour whose constant theme has been the
universal vitality of democracy. In Po-
land, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, India,
and now in France, I've emphasized that
our modern struggle is not only to estab-
lish peace but also to protect the individ-
ual from abuse by the state.
Tomorrow, with President Giscard
d'Estaing, I will leave Paris and visit the
beaches at Normandy. If the names
Omaha, Utah, Juno, Gold, and Sword
will always live in the memories of both
our peoples, it's because they remind us
at what cost our liberties have been pur-
chased and what a precious heritage has
been left for us to attend and to defend.
These names remind us that liberty is
not secured with just one defense but must
26
