Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
our tasks nor conceal our failures. We are
fully convinced that, in the end, a de-
mocracy gathers vigor from open dissent,
and a consensus makes for firmer founda-
tions. What we ask of the international
community, and that too as a supplement
to our own national efforts, is construc-
tive cooperation or at least a benign un-
derstanding of our endeavors.
On the wider canvas, my government
remains faithful to the fundamental prin-
ciples of our foreign policy. The remnants
of colonialism and racialism, where they
still exist, must go. Racialism, which cer-
tainly persists in Africa in defiance of
international opinion, must give way to
governments representative of the ma-
jority.
We believe this is no time for increasing
but, rather, arresting and eliminating
great power deployment in the hitherto
tension-free areas such as the Indian
Ocean.
We welcome the negotiations between
the United States and the Soviet Union
on the limitations of strategic weapons
and efforts to consolidate détente.
Faithful to the spirit of the United
Nations Charter, India will always be on
the side of the peaceful resolution of in-
ternational disputes. We are determined
to be true to the friendships which have
served our national interests. We are
equally convinced that in keeping with
contemporary realities, we can widen and
intensify our relations, to mutual advan-
tage, with many countries.
In the final instance, peace will remain
fragile if nuclear weapons, capable of
such annihilative destruction, are kept and
multiplied. We appreciate the concern
and sincerity which you have expressed at
these dangers and the efforts you are mak-
ing to arrest the proliferation of nuclear
weapons.
For our part, we have unilaterally ab-
jured the development of such means of
mass destruction. But, Mr. President, we
hope that you will agree with the dangers
of nuclear war, by accident or design, will
remain, until such time as all nations,
without arbitrary distinctions, join in a
firm commitment for the progressive re-
duction and eventual elimination of nu-
clear weapons from all parts of the world.
The challenge demands not just restraints
from nuclear weapons but pledges by
the nuclear "haves" to turn away from
the use of this instrument of modern sci-
ence for military purposes. But, in the
meanwhile, must countries who have no
nuclear weapons be inhibited from using
nuclear science as an instrument for eco-
nomic transformation? I would like to
emphasize with a full sense of responsibil-
ity that India, for her part, will not in-
dulge in the perverse use of nuclear
science.
Mr. President, our bilateral coopera-
tion has been rich in range and content.
My government acknowledges the debt of
gratitude we owe to the United States,
which has provided us generous aid when
we were in need. Your assistance has been
an important factor in our development
and in the progress towards the diversifi-
cation of our economy.
Of all the many-sided links between us,
I would particularly like to recall that
students and technologists trained in
American institutions have, on return,
grafted their acquired knowledge and
skills to our national development.
Multifaceted and beneficial as has been
our bilateral relationship, the range and
sophistication has a wide scope for further
development. It is for these reasons that
we believe that the Indo-U.S. Joint Com-
mission and its three subcommissions
merit fuller encouragement and support.
13
