Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
much. You know, you realize, you think
this is a soft job. When you stand in line
like that and greet this many people and
shake hands with these alleged friends-
[laughter]-some of them squeeze a little
hard, I want to tell you. I mean, you've
got to appreciate the fact that the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Carter take time to do this.
This is not an election year, you know.
[Laughter]
It's wonderful, and we appreciate it
very much. And I want to apologize for
some of the things I've said on television—
right now, let me see [laughter]-no,
when I said that Mr. Carter was a very
religious man, because every time I ate a
peanut, I feel immortal-[laughter]—I'm
sorry about that.
I just want to thank all of you for com-
ing. I want to thank the President and
Mrs. Carter for loaning us our house.
[Laughter] God knows we paid for it.
[Laughter] I would have mailed this
speech in, but I couldn't afford it.
[Laughter] The price went up to 15 cents.
It was supposed to go up in '63, but the
Postmaster General just got the letter.
[Laughter]
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Bob was embarrassed
to say this, but he wanted me to point out
again to you how deeply honored he is to
have you here. And he says that you're
the best friends he has in the world. He
doesn't get a chance to see you very often,
and he would like for all of you to wait in
the room until he's outside. He'd like to
shake hands with you again as you leave.
[Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:58 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. Enter-
tainer Bob Hope, who has traditionally led
Christmas programs for U.S. servicemen over-
seas under USO sponsorship, was guest of
honor at the event.
Natural Gas Legislation
Statement on the Agreement of the
Congressional Conferees. May 24, 1978
I am pleased and gratified that the con-
gressional energy conferees, after 6
months of arduous work, have reached
final agreement on natural gas legislation.
A solution to the natural gas issue has
eluded Presidents and Congresses for
more than a quarter of a century. I con-
gratulate the conferees for their fine work.
This historic agreement represents a
long-overdue step toward the creation of
a truly national market for natural gas,
as well as a crucial breakthrough toward
enactment of the long-delayed national
energy legislation.
Our objective, when we sent the na-
tional energy act to Congress on April
20, 1977, was to protect the Nation's con-
sumers and the economy from the sudden
imposition of the substantially higher nat-
ural gas prices that would result from im-
mediate deregulation. We also sought to
provide producers with higher incentives
to stimulate natural gas production. Those
objectives have been met by the legis-
lation the conferees have agreed upon
today.
The compromise, according to best
available estimates, will cost American
consumers no more than they would pay
if today's inadequate regulatory system
were to be maintained. Moreover, if the
compromise is accepted by the full Con-
gress, new supplies of natural gas, for-
merly available only in the intrastate
market, will flow to gas-starved interstate
systems at reasonable prices. These new
supplies will replace billions of dollars
worth of more expensive fuels, including
imported oil.
This agreement represents a major step
forward toward finalization of the na-
tional energy legislation. I urge the Con-
967
