May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. Mr. President, to follow that up, if
I may: General Motors' response to your
deceleration program was to announce an
average increase of about $100 on each,
or most, new model lines. A.T.&T.'s
response, with estimated profits this year
of $5 to $6 billion, was a statement by
Chairman deButts that A.T.&T. probably
would need a rate increase this year. And
the response of several unions has been
that they do, indeed, consider the coal
settlement as a pattern for wage increases
next year of 10, 12, or 13 percent.
In the light of that, what possible as-
surance can you give the American peo-
ple that there is going to be any progress
in fighting inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't guaran-
tee success. The only thing I can do is the
best effort in my power. I can't mandate
action by those people involved. That's
not compatible with what I've heard from
Tom Murphy, who is head of General
Motors, or Mr. deButts, who's head of
A.T.&T. My hope is still that from the
automobile manufacturers-Ford, Gen-
eral Motors, and others—that they will
hold their price increases below the 6
percent average for the last 2 years.
And we have two major labor settle-
ments this year, as you know-railroads
and Post Office employees.
We're going to do the best we can—I,
Bob Strauss, and others-to hold down
those
settlements below the average
wage
that they got for the last 2 years on a
nationwide wage-rate basis. And I believe
we have a good chance to succeed. But it's
going to take the concerted effort of all
Americans to hold down the inflation
rate. It's not something that government
can do by itself. It's not something that
one labor union can do by itself, nor one
major corporation.
There's a common goal that we share
not only with Americans but also with
other countries. But it's a top priority
in my economic package this year to hold
down the inflation rate, and I hope that
we'll have equal success as we did with
unemployment last year.
INDIAN LAND CLAIMS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Randy Lewis,
KEDO Radio in Longview, Washington.
You mentioned native Americans a while
ago. And that brings me to a question
that's quite serious in the State of Wash-
ington, where there is growing resentment
toward some land claims that native
Americans are making, claiming treaty
rights. There's also resentment that the
Federal Government is taking an active
role in supporting these land claims
against the property rights of non-Indians.
Are you aware of this feeling, and do you
think there is a reassessment of this Fed-
eral role needed?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'm aware of
the feeling, of course. As you know, the
disputes between native Indians and
other Americans have been growing in re-
cent years, primarily through the Federal
courts. The ruling in this area concerning
harvesting of fish between Indians and
other Americans has been one of great im-
portance to me and, I know, of high in-
terest to all the people in this area.
We've had our Secretaries of Inte-
rior and Commerce working with the De-
partment of Justice, trying to evolve a
compromise between Indians and other
Americans to try to take this case out of
court.
We had a similar case that came to a
head in Maine. I appointed Judge Wil-
liam Gunter to work out a compromise
between the Indians and other residents
in that area, and, hopefully, we can reach
a solution there.
The Federal Government is charged
with the responsibility of representing the
Indian claims. Secretary Cecil Andrus,
850
