May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
some issues that have arisen among us
and which ordinarily are addressed
through bilateral conversations between
me and other NATO government heads
of state.
Congress is dealing with the budget
and with the energy question. We hope
that we'll have an early resolution of the
natural gas pricing and deregulation
proposal which has been the most diffi-
cult issue of all. That will still leave the
question of the crude oil equalization tax,
which is to be decided by a separate com-
mittee, at least from the Senate point of
view.
We have civil service reform proposals
now in the House and Senate. As far as
legislation goes, I consider this to be the
most important issue in reorganization
effort. We're trying to make the bureauc-
racy and the Federal Government more
responsive and more manageable.
As I've said several times, it's much
worse than I thought it was before I got
here. [Laughter] And I think that to give
very dedicated career civil servants an
opportunity to do a better job and to be
rewarded when they do a good job, and
also to encourage those who aren't per-
forming well to perform better, to give
our managers authority among the per-
sonnel, civil service, will be a major step
in the right direction. This is in the Post
Office and Civil Service Committee in
the House, and the Government Opera-
tions Committee in the Senate. And we
are spending a lot of time getting ready
for this vote, which I hope and expect to
be favorable.
We've got many other issues at stake.
I think in order to save time, since I
came in here a little bit late, I'll answer
your questions, and then address more
directly those questions that are very im-
portant to you.
I might say, before I take the first ques-
tion, that I have enjoyed being President.
[Laughter] It's a full-time job, I've dis-
covered. But there are pleasant working
conditions, as you can see. I don't have
to ride very far to get to work. I think it's
kind of brought our family together.
Rosalynn has been an equal partner with
me in many ways. And she's presently
involved to a major degree in building
up volunteer work in the improvement of
the quality of life in our communities,
around the country, of all sizes. She's
studying Spanish and has made two or
three trips to Spanish-speaking countries
to the south with great effectiveness, I
think.
And I've got a superb Cabinet. There's
not a single member of my Cabinet that
I would want to change. And my hope
is all of them will stay here as long as
I'm in the White House. I've got a good
staff, solid.
So, I've enjoyed the job, and I never
got up out of bed yet that I didn't look
forward to the day. Sometimes I've been
disappointed after I got up. [Laughter]
QUESTIONS
YURI ORLOV
Q. Mr. President, may we have your
personal reaction to the trial of Yuri
Orlov in the Soviet Union?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The State De-
partment, with my approval, has issued a
statement on this subject. We are deeply
disturbed about this action by the Soviet
Union, which in my opinion subverts the
spirit of the Helsinki agreement concern-
ing human rights. Orlov was a Soviet
citizen who organized a group to moni-
tor compliance with the so-called third
basket in the Helsinki agreement, which
was signed not only voluntarily but with
a good bit of publicity on the part of the
Soviet Union.
We are concerned about the severity
of the sentence, the secrecy of the trial,
938
