Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
for a reduction in those weapons and to
kind of work with other countries in vary-
ing forms of success to get them to join
in, in removing the threat of complete
nuclear annihilation.
It's not easy to negotiate with the
Russians on a SALT agreement, which is
crucial to our country, and at the same
time not let that be prevented by the
unwarranted Soviet intrusion with their
Cuban surrogates into Africa.
The Congress has dealt historically and
courageously with the question of a Pan-
ama Canal Treaty, not a popular thing
in the United States, but one, I think,
that's absolutely important to our proper
dealing with small countries around the
world who look upon us to demonstrate
that we believe in equality, that we be-
lieve in fairness, that we believe in human
rights a very difficult vote.
We've had another one recently on the
Mideast arms sales, almost impossible to
resolve to the satisfaction of the Ameri-
can people. It took a lot of courage to
make those decisions, how to move to-
ward peace in the Middle East, retain our
total commitment to the security of
Israel, at the same time not sever our
relationship with the moderate Arab
countries who also want peace so that
they would have to turn to the Soviet
Union or other Eastern bloc countries for
their friendship and military needs-diffi-
cult questions. I recognize how hard it is
to be a good State legislator, Governor, or
Member of Congress.
This afternoon, I go back from here to
West Virginia. I'll be talking about a sub-
ject that's important to Illinois-coal.
And to study the technical aspects of the
evolution of coal's use in the future, to
correlate it with environmental protec-
tion, liquefaction, gasification, its compe-
tition with other energy sources is very,
very complicated, and it's important for
me to understand that subject, just as it
is for you here in Illinois, a great coal-
producing State.
Later tonight, I'll be meeting with
President Giscard d'Estaing from France.
Tomorrow morning I'm tentatively
scheduled to meet with Foreign Minister
Gromyko of the Soviet Union. I'll be
getting tonight, late, a report from Dr.
Zbigniew Brzezinski, who's just come back
from days of negotiation and communica-
tion with the leaders of the People's Re-
public of China.
So, I'm not saying these things to de-
plore the responsibility that I have to
share with
share with you, but to indicate to you that
quite often the difficulties of public serv-
ice are not adequately understood by the
American people. And the best way to let
them understand it is to keep an open
mind and an open heart and an open door
and to reach out for them for advice and
counsel, because I believe that all these
subjects can be best resolved successfully
to the extent that the American people,
the people of Illinois are involved in the
deliberative process, that the debates are
open. But when you make a decision in
isolation, you have a tendency to create
a Watergate or Vietnam war or a CIA
embarrassment. But the American people
are basically decent, basically honest,
basically have great common sense, and
to the extent that they are involved in a
process, we can avoid the potential pit-
falls of making an improper decision.
The eyes of the Nation now are focused
on the men and women in this chamber.
Illinois has a great tradition of insisting
upon equality of opportunity. Lincoln
conducted his debates in this very place.
Illinois was the first State that voted to
ratify the constitutional amendment giv-
ing women a right to vote. You have
written into your own constitution equal
rights for women.
Thirty-five other States have now rati-
fied the equal rights amendment, and
what you do here in this chamber in the
next few weeks might very well determine
989
