Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 7
Shah and I have had very all-encom-
passing discussions about human rights. I
am not inclined to reveal the private con-
versations. But the basic question in Iran
is the law that exists that outlaws the
Communist Party and that outlaws com-
munism are very similar to the laws that
we have enforced in the past very rigidly.
And this is the basis for the problem.
But the Shah is very deeply concerned
about human rights, and I mentioned
human rights in my statement in Iran.
But we've seen in Iran, in many ways, the
opening up of the rights of women, the
welcoming of disparate religious and
racial groups to Iran-a very fine move-
ment forward, I would say, equivalent to
what we've done in the last 20 years.
(The last phrase refers specifically to
movement on the rights of women and
racial and religious minorities.) 3
VIEWS ON THE TRIP
Q. Sir, if I could, I would like to get
off the hard news for a minute here.
THE PRESIDENT. Good deal.
Q. And, really, I guess it's a two-part
question. One is that you, in many of your
talks and after the statements and things
that you made, you mentioned the word
"symbolism." You said, "This is a sym-
bol" of various things.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I guess the first part is, was the trip
partly symbolic? And the second is that
you have stayed in the last 9 days in some
of the most elaborate buildings in the
world. [Laughter] Are you at all uncom-
fortable with where you have been and
the service you've been given in staying at
places you didn't stay at Versailles, but
being in places like Versailles-is that at
all uncomfortable to you?
3 Printed in the White House press release.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll have to be honest
and say it was not uncomfortable.
[Laughter]
MRS. CARTER. I enjoyed it.
THE PRESIDENT. It was obvious that
every leader, beginning with Poland all
the way through the stay in the palace in
France, went out of their way to try to
make me feel welcome and to give me
not only friendship but show what their
nation had to offer, historically and cul-
turally and in the spirit of hospitality.
So, I enjoyed it. It was very fine, and
we expressed our appreciation to them.
I've already written thank-you notes to
everybody, including our departure from
Paris, and told them how much we ap-
preciated it.
The trip was symbolic. It's a very sure
and comforting feeling to represent what
I consider to be the greatest nation on
Earth. And we don't have any weakness
that I feel that requires me to artificially
prove our strength. We don't have any
need that I feel that requires me to take
advantage of someone else to meet our
need. We don't have any feeling of su-
periority or domination over other na-
tions with whom we visited. We genuinely
treat them as equals, as partners, as peo-
ple with whom we would like to be even
closer friends in the future.
So, it was a trip that was symbolic of
the power and influence and the good
will of the United States. I tried to em-
phasize everywhere I went the concepts
of morality and decency and goodness
and friendship and human rights. So, I
didn't feel under any sort of uncomfort-
able strain to prove something that I
don't really think our Nation represents.
It was symbolic to that degree. It symbol-
ized what America is, what America
wants to be.
47
