June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the fight against inflation from the per-
spective of the Federal Government itself
depends on Congress action in the days
ahead. Unless the Congress is responsible,
the Federal deficit will rise at a time when
it must and can be reduced. Unless the
Congress shows restraint in spending, it
will set the worst possible example for our
workers and businessmen, whom I've
asked to restrain their own wage and price
increases in order to hold down inflation.
Unless we recognize the limits on our
ability to spend in the Federal Govern-
ment, then both American citizens and
those in foreign countries will see that we
cannot take the difficult decisions that are
necessary if inflation is to be controlled.
I'm concerned in particular at this time
about the public works appropriations bill
that the House will begin voting on to-
morrow. That bill, as passed by the Ap-
propriations Committee, would add not
only $1.4 billion in spending over the life
of 46 new water projects, but it also con-
tinues spending for the unsound water
projects which the Congress agreed not
to fund last year. It would waste far too
much of our taxpayers' money, and we
just can't afford it.
With the help of many of the House
Members who are also concerned about
the inflationary impact of the public
works bill, we will be working to elimi-
nate the unnecessary spending proposals
for water projects in that bill. Unless
they are eliminated, I intend to veto it.
And now, I'd like to recognize Ms.
Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press In-
ternational].
QUESTIONS
CUBAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANGOLA
Q. Mr. President, do you think that
Fidel Castro is lying when he says that
there's been no Cuban involvement in the
recent invasion of Zaire? And since you
made the charge, contrary to Castro's
word, do you have proof that he did not
attempt to restrain the rebels?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't really desire
to get into a public dispute with Mr.
Castro through the news media. The facts
are these: In Zaire, the Cubans now have
more than 20,000 armed troops plus other
support personnel-in Angola, excuse me.
They also are deeply involved in the min-
istries of the Angolan Government itself,
and they have substantial control over the
transportation facilities in Angola-the
seaports, the airports, and so forth.
In the southeastern (northeastern) ยน
part of Angola from which the Katangan
attack was launched, the Cubans have
around 4,000 or more troops. They are a
heavy influence, both with all personnel in
Angola, including the Katangans, and
also, of course, with the Neto government
itself.
There's no doubt about the fact that
Cuba has been involved in the training
of Katangan people who did invade. We
have firm proof of this fact. And the
knowledge that Cuba had of the impend-
ing invasion has been admitted by Cas-
tro himself.
This was a story published, I think, in
Time magazine the last week in May,
and later Castro informed one of our own
diplomats that he knew about the im-
pending invasion ahead of time and that
he attempted to notify President Neto in
Angola and was unsuccessful. (Castro in-
formed one of our own diplomats that he
knew about the impending invasion ahead
of time and that he attempted to notify
President Neto in Angola and was unsuc-
cessful, and there was a story printed in
Time magazine.) 2
The fact is that Castro could have done
much more, had he genuinely wanted to
stop the invasion. He could have inter-
ceded with the Katangans themselves. He
ยน Printed in the transcript.
2 Printed in the transcript.
1092
