May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
fession. And one day he knelt in the mid-
dle of the field and asked God to give him
some guidance on how he should spend
the rest of his life. And as he finished his
prayer and looked up into the heavens,
he thought he saw spelled out in the
clouds something that looked like
"g-o-a-p." So he said, "God wants me to
go out and preach." So, after 2 years of
unsuccessful ministry in the pulpit, he
realized that God was telling him to go
on and plow. [Laughter]
We ourselves, no matter what our pro-
fession might be, no matter what our call-
ing might be in life, often feel that we are
aliens in God's world. This morning we
are remembering an admonition from na-
tive Americans who, perhaps, as much as
any group of human beings on Earth,
have lived and often still live in close com-
munion with nature. And their admoni-
tion is "Touch the Earth."
God said, "The Earth is Mine and the
fullness thereof." We are increasingly re-
minded of how much we have despoiled
God's Earth.
A few days ago, I had a visitor in the
Oval Office whose name was Iron Eyes
Cody. I know all of you have seen the
award-winning advertisement on televi-
sion where a dignified, proud, quite native
American, Iron Eyes Cody, walks across
what seems to be God's beautiful Earth,
looks down at his feet and sees trash,
garbage, dips his hand in what ought to
be a clear stream and comes up with filth,
and a tear runs down his cheek. There
are no words spoken, but the message
is gripping and impelling.
We look upon the mysteries of nature
with great wonder and a growing realiza-
tion of the unfathomable accomplish-
ment of God. Recently, for the first time,
we detected with assurance a so-called
black hole in the heavens, a phenomenon
known to astronomers where a world such
as we know collapses with such tremen-
dous force that a cubic inch of that ma-
terial can weigh thousands and thou-
sands and thousands of tons, with a pole
of gravity so great that nothing can
escape, even a ray of light. And from our
own observation here on Earth looking
toward it, a black hole is created because
no light can leave it nor pass near it.
These infinite phenomena cause
concern, but they also teach us how fragile
is the environment created for us on
Earth, given to us by God, carefully
balanced, very delicate, subject to minute,
incremental changes made by you and me
which can destroy the very gift of life that
we've received from God.
My first memory of farming during the
thirties was struggling to preserve the
quality of our land which steadily de-
teriorated-in Georgia, in Oklahoma,
perhaps, here in Colorado. Because of in-
attention to our stewardship of the land,
the topsoil was washed away, or the top-
soil was blown away, or the quality of the
earth itself deteriorated rapidly. And
there was a sense of foredoom, of warn-
ing about the future getting ever more
troubling to the farmers who lived there.
The church itself, all denominations,
organized annual stewardship weeks, and
the laymen and the pastors, the preachers,
the priests would devote that whole week
from the pulpit of God's church to teach
farmers and others how to preserve the
quality of their land. We didn't burn
much oil and gasoline or coal in those
days. The air was pure. The streams were
contaminated only by earth which had
washed away. But in those early days of
warning in my own life 40 years ago, I
have seen a deterioration since then with
other forms of pollution that have caused
us even greater concern.
As a coastal State, Georgia and others
like it are faced with the present circum-
stance where sand beaches, so attractive
to tourists and others who love the ocean,
830
