Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
The American economy remains strong.
Our competitive position in international
trade is excellent. In 1977 our merchan-
dise exports exceeded imports (except for
oil) by a large amount. Our inflation rate
is among the lowest in the industrial
world.
But our balance of trade and payments
incurred a large and worrisome deficit.
There were two main causes:
-In 1977, $45 billion flowed out to pay
for imported oil. This wiped out what
would otherwise have been a trade
surplus.
-The demand here for foreign goods
was much greater than the demand for
American goods abroad. In 1977, Amer-
ican GNP increased roughly twice as fast
in real terms as the GNP of our main trad-
ing partners.
Against this background, the exchange
rate of the dollar declined relative to the
currencies of Japan, Germany, Switzer-
land, and other European countries.
These developments led to disorderly con-
ditions in the exchange markets. In De-
cember I made clear that the United
States would intervene to counter these
disorders, and we have done so.
To assure the integrity of the dollar we
must act now:
We need a healthy and growing
United States economy, with adequate in-
vestment, a prudent budget, and declin-
ing inflation. This will make us more com-
petitive and more attractive to foreign
investors.
-We need to conserve energy and de-
velop alternative sources of supply. This
will reduce our dependence on imported
oil, and cut the outflow of dollars.
-We need to see a more vigorous
world economy. Stronger growth, par-
ticularly in countries like Germany,
Japan, Switzerland, and the Netherlands,
can help reduce our own deficits and bring
stability to international payments.
Factors already at work will reduce our
trade deficit. Economic activity in Eu-
rope and elsewhere should rise. Our oil
imports should level off this year. The
effect of new exchange rates that have al-
ready occurred will, when their full effect
is realized, improve our trade balance by
several billions of dollars. While our trade
and payments deficit in 1978 will be large,
our external position should show some
improvement.
We must also augment our capacity to
deal with possible strains and pressures by
strengthening our international trade and
monetary system. I urge the Congress to
act promptly to approve United States
participation in the IMF's Supplemen-
tary Financing Facility.
The trading nations of the world are
engaged in negotiations to reduce bar-
riers and improve the international trad-
ing system by a reciprocal and balanced
opening of markets. Freer trade will en-
able us all to use the world's resources
more efficiently and will contribute to
economic growth.
We will also attempt to strengthen the
rules that have regulated international
trade during the last 30 years. Interna-
tional competition must take place with-
in a framework of agreed rules that are
recognized as appropriate and fair.
THE DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
One of the most critical issues facing
the United States is our economic and
po-
litical relationship with developing coun-
tries. Our economy has become visibly
dependent on the developing world for
supplies and markets.
119
