Mar. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that the energy conference had reached an
agreement. And I've had several happy
days when we've resolved the terms of the
coal contract. [Laughter]
I've also had a chance to learn a lot.
I came here naive, proud of myself for
having been elected as the first person
from the Deep South to take over the reins
of the great Federal Government of our
country. And then I came to Washington
and found out that Russell Long had
filled that position for a long time.
[Laughter]
I wanted to bring a breath of fresh air
to Washington. I told my Cabinet that I
wanted to get away from the smoke-filled
rooms. Joe Califano was the only one that
heard me. [Laughter]
I have had an ability to kind of roll
with the punches. I've been criticized a lot,
as you know, either for indecision or for
making decisions. The Republicans have
been constantly on the attack, claiming
that my foreign policy was a disaster. I
felt when I took office that there ought to
be some continuity at least between the
Republicans and Democrats. [Laughter]
We've had some unpopular decisions, I
know. I understand from the Park Service
that you have to stand in line now to get
a permit to demonstrate against me in
front of the White House. [Laughter] So,
one of my good friends, who happens to
be a Governor from California, recom-
mended that I get ahold of a good and
popular issue. He thought that I ought to
look to the South since everybody loves
our friends in this hemisphere. He sug-
gested that the Panama Canal Treaty
would be a good issue-[laughter]—to get
ahold of. And he was right. This has
helped with the demonstrations. This is
the only subject we've never had a dem-
onstration in front of the White House in
favor of, the Panama Canal treaties.
[Laughter]
I've had a hard time learning how to
compromise. It's very difficult for me, as
has also been criticized. The other day
Jim Allen came in, and I thought I had
finally achieved success. He said, "I am
ready to compromise with you on the
Panama Canal treaties," and I breathed
a sigh of relief. He said, "I've worked out
a deal where we give the Panamanians
one side of the canal and we keep the
other side." [Laughter] I responded to this
well, because we've been looking for a
place for a Palestinian homeland.
[Laughter]
I thought the best way to resolve the is-
sue and to demonstrate the strength of my
own leadership was to have a mass meet-
ing in support of the Panama Canal
treaties, and we had the meeting. Both
of us were very glad that the other one
came. [Laughter]
That was one of my worst days. I have
a hard time relaxing after I get back to
the Mansion, but that night I decided I'd
get in the tub, take a warm bath—and my
Ivory soap sank. [Laughter]
I think it's good when we gather to-
gether as Democrats to recognize our
strengths and our weaknesses. We stand
these days, with the help of Tip O'Neill,
Bob Byrd, many of you, particularly
Wendell Ford and Jim Corman,¹ who
have done such a superb job this year and
for whom we'll be deeply grateful the
morning after the election in November, as
a united party.
There are no differences that separate
us one from another, and there is a strong
sense that I have of mutual respect and
cooperation between the Congress and the
White House, executive branch of Gov-
ernment.
1 Senator Wendell H. Ford, chairman of the
National Democratic Campaign Committee,
and Representative James C. Corman of Cali-
fornia, chairman of the Democratic National
Congressional Committee.
512
