Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
ground, a common commitment to the newness, how we can exert our leader-
common future.
I particularly want to thank Senator
Enrico Rezende and my good and old
friend, Deputado Erasmo Martins Pedro,
for those inspirational words. There is no
way that I can match your eloquence.
There's no way that I can improve upon
what you have said. And your compli-
mentary words to me, undeserved, will be
an inspiration in the years ahead.
I've been here before in this cham-
ber, in your country. I've been impressed
with the greatness of Brazil. I've seen
the compatibility between your own
people and ours the origins of your
country; the struggle for freedom against
colonial rule; the courage, the tenacity,
the dedication that was required in our
country and yours to explore new fron-
tiers, to carve out for ourselves a better
life, a greater life, and a position of lead-
ership throughout the whole world.
I recognize that in your country and
in mine there is a great diversity of in-
terest, differences among people, and a
constant, unceasing, most often successful
struggle to bring harmony among differ-
ences and to carve out common commit-
ments that will add the strength of all
those different people together to reach a
destiny even more inspirational than the
past history has already given to us.
We share a common religion among
many of our people, a common hope for
peace. We share a feeling that our na-
tions are bound together with unbreak-
able chains. We share a realization that
while friendship is strong enough to sus-
tain transient differences of opinion, that
we can exchange ideas freely and without
constraint and, in the process, learn
about one another and perhaps improve
the attitudes of people in the United
States and also in Brazil.
We are learning together in the Western
Hemisphere, which still has the vigor of
ship throughout the rest of the world in
dealing with hunger and despair, in deal-
ing with the struggle for basic human
rights.
We understand the broad definition of
these two important words—the right to
freedom, the right to criticize a govern-
ment, the right of people to contain with-
in themselves, collectively, the ultimate
authority, the right to an education, the
right to good health, a place to live, food,
the right to share more equitably the
riches with which God has blessed us,
the right to express opinions, the right to
enhance our own individuality, the right
to seek collective solutions to private and
public problems, the right to expose the
greatness of our own nations which we
love.
I'm grateful for the invitation to ap-
pear before this great Congress as one
whose own political career began in a
legislature. I've seen the importance of
a good relationship between a Governor
and a State legislature, between a Presi-
dent and a national Congress. And I join
you in honoring the ultimate purpose of
any legislative body, that of ensuring that
individual people who have small voices
may participate through you in the deci-
sions that affect their lives.
Thirty-one years ago, another Ameri-
can President stood before the Brazilian
Congress, another Congress in a different
city, since your vision of Brasília had not
yet been fulfilled. I'd like to quote
from the words of Harry Truman: "It is
not too much to describe our relations as
those of life-long friends," he said. And
then he asked, "Why are the ties be-
tween Brazil and the United States so
close? The distance between our coun-
tries is great. And until recent years com-
munications were slow and difficult. It is
not physical proximity that alone makes
friends and neighbors; it is rather the fact
635
