Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tual limit on both the quality and the
quantity of the giant nuclear arsenals of
both nations, and then we want actual
reductions in strategic arms as a major
step toward the ultimate elimination of
nuclear weapons from the face of the
Earth.
If these talks result in an agreement
this year—and I trust they will-I pledge
to you that the agreement will maintain
and enhance the stability of the world's
strategic balance and the security of the
United States.
For 30 years, concerted but unsuccess-
ful efforts have been made to ban the
testing of atomic explosives-both mili-
tary weapons and peaceful nuclear de-
vices.
We are hard at work with Great Brit-
ain and the Soviet Union on an agree-
ment which will stop testing and will
protect our national security and provide
for adequate verification of compliance.
We are now making, I believe, good prog-
ress toward this comprehensive ban on
nuclear explosions.
We are also working vigorously to halt
the proliferation of nuclear weapons
among the nations of the world which do
not now have them and to reduce the
deadly global traffic in conventional arms
sales. Our stand for peace is suspect if
we are also the principal arms merchant
of the world. So, we've decided to cut
down our arms transfers abroad on a
year-by-year basis and to work with other
major arms exporters to encourage their
similar constraint.
Every American has a stake in our sec-
ond major goal-a world at peace. In a
nuclear age, each of us is threatened when
peace is not secured everywhere. We are
trying to promote harmony in those parts
of the world where major differences exist
among other nations and threaten inter-
national peace.
In the Middle East, we are contribut-
ing our good offices to maintain the
momentum of the current negotiations
and to keep open the lines of communi-
cation among the Middle Eastern leaders.
The whole world has a great stake in the
success of these efforts. This is a precious
opportunity for a historic settlement of a
longstanding conflict-an opportunity
which may never come again in our life-
time.
Our role has been difficult and some-
times thankless and controversial. But it
has been constructive and it has been nec-
essary, and it will continue.
Our third major foreign policy goal is
one that touches the life of every Ameri-
can citizen every day-world economic
growth and stability.
This requires strong economic perform-
ance by the industrialized democracies
like ourselves and progress in resolving
the global energy crisis. Last fall, with the
help of others, we succeeded in our vig-
orous efforts to maintain the stability of
the price of oil. But as many foreign lead-
ers have emphasized to me personally and,
I am sure, to you, the greatest future con-
tribution that America can make to the
world economy would be an effective en-
ergy conservation program here at home.
We will not hesitate to take the actions
needed to protect the integrity of the
American dollar.
We are trying to develop a more just in-
ternational system. And in this spirit, we
are supporting the struggle for human de-
velopment in Africa, in Asia, and in Latin
America.
Finally, the world is watching to see
how we act on one of our most important
and controversial items of business-ap-
proval of the Panama Canal treaties. The
treaties now before the Senate are the re-
sult of the work of four administrations—
two Democratic, two Republican.
96
