June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Congress has now passed legisla-
tion ensuring a nonproliferation policy by
the end of this year.
For the first time in 30, 35 years, we'll
have a proposal to make on waste dis-
posal. We've tried to expedite the licens-
ing of nuclear powerplants which are
needed, to be sure they'll be located in
safe places and to be sure they're envi-
ronmentally acceptable.
So, I would say that our position is bal-
anced. I have never said, nor do I believe,
that we should not use nuclear power.
But we ought to have conservation, per-
manent sources used, like solar power,
long-term sources like coal, and have nu-
clear power, when it is used, be safe.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is P. L.
Jones. I'm from Arlington, Texas. And my
question is, do you think there is a chance
of a decrease in the inflation rate in the
near, foreseeable future?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter] I
think the underlying inflation rate has
now gone up about a half of 1 percent.
We did have an extraordinary inflation
rate for the first 3 months of this year.
That will not be maintained; it will go
down, I think, some. But our first goal is
just to stabilize the inflation rate and not
let it keep going up. This is not an easy
thing to do. It's going to require tough
government action, and I intend to do all
I can to prevent unnecessary spending.
I'll use the veto, if necessary, to stop any
attack on holding down the budget deficit.
The Federal Government can also set a
limit on how much unnecessary regulation
costs on the inflation rate. Airline deregu-
lation has been a good example of that.
We are trying to get industry and labor to
cooperate. But you have to remember that
we have very fine special interest groups,
each one of which wants everybody else to
control inflation. Everybody wants to
build water projects. The veterans want
more payments. Farmers want higher
prices. We want to have as much increase
in wages among labor unions. Business
doesn't want to have their own profit mar-
gins or prices constrained. Teachers want
more money for education, and so forth.
Every one of those groups has a good
argument, and somebody has got to stand
up and say, no, inflation has got to come
first. And that person is me.
Since I mentioned teachers, let me say,
"That person is I." [Laughter]
EMPLOYMENT OF MINORITIES
Q. Hello, Mr. President, my name is
Guinevere Bradley. I'm from Sweetwater,
Texas. I'm representing the Mayor's
Council on Youth Opportunity, and my
question is, with rising prices and inflation
at its highest, what do you see in the fu-
ture for better hiring practices, more and
better jobs for minorities?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said a few min-
utes ago, a year ago the overriding ques-
tion that was on my shoulders, as the
number one domestic problem, was unem-
ployment. We had about 8 percent unem-
ployment when I came in office. Because
of the good action of the Congress and also
the private sector, we've improved that
substantially. We've had a net increase of
about 5.5 million jobs in the last 17
months. Among adult male minority
Americans the unemployment rate has
dropped substantially. Among all Amer-
icans the unemployment rate has dropped
substantially.
In Texas, for instance, the unemploy-
ment rate has dropped over 22 percent.
You've had more than 500,000 net jobs
added in Texas in the last year. But we
still have a very serious problem among
minority young people and minority
women.
1162
