Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
To address this problem, I propose a
major new Federal grant program. Urban
communities will compete for funds to
revive and rebuild parks and recreation
facilities. Challenge grants totalling $150
million will be provided for construction
and major rehabilitation of urban recre-
ation systems, such as parks, tennis and
basketball courts, swimming pools, bicycle
paths, and other facilities. Cities will be
awarded grants based on the quality of
their planning, the degree of need and
their ability to match the Federal funds
with private and local contributions.
Social Services
Urban revitalization efforts must be ac-
companied by efforts to help those in need
to improve their own lives. A variety of
income support and social service pro-
grams are designed to do this. Since 1974,
however, the support given to State social
service programs by the Federal govern-
ment has declined in real terms.
I
propose an additional $150 million of
new budget authority for the Title XX
program. These funds will be used to im-
prove the delivery of social services in
urban areas ranging from Meals on
Wheels for the elderly to day care for chil-
dren of working mothers-and to develop
greater coordination between local, pub-
lic and private agencies.
Health Services
Nearly 50 million Americans live in
areas without adequate health services.
These areas, many of which are in inner
cities, suffer from higher infant mortality
rates, greater poverty and shortages of
health care personnel.
In underserved areas, emergency room
and outpatient departments of city hos-
pitals are used as the routine source of
medical care by the poor, primarily due to
the lack of private physicians. As these de-
partments were not designed to provide
comprehensive medical care, the hospital
resources are strained and the poor often
go without adequate care.
To help meet the primary health care
needs of the urban poor and reduce the
strain on city hospitals, I propose to ex-
pand federally-supported Community
Health Centers and to fund city-spon-
sored programs which provide compre-
hensive, but less costly, primary care serv-
ices. The city-sponsored programs will en-
roll the medically indigent in existing
health systems, such as HMOs. They also
will help expand locally-supported cen-
ters, reform hospital outpatient depart-
ments and provide comprehensive health
services.
Education
Schools are the focus of community ac-
tivities in many places. Yet they are sel-
dom fully used or linked to other com-
munity and social services.
I intend to provide $1.5 million to ex-
pand the experimental Cities in Schools
program which seeks to bridge the gap by
uniting a number of social services within
schools to better serve both students and
their families. We intend to expand this
promising new program to 10 pilot
schools.
In addition, I urge the Congress to
enact the $600 million increase in the
Title I program of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act, which I re-
cently proposed, including my recom-
mendation that $400 million of these
funds be targeted to cities and other areas
with high concentrations of low-income
families.
V. NEIGHBORHOODS AND VOLUNTEER
ORGANIZATIONS
No resource of our urban communities
is more valuable than the commitment of
our citizens.
Volunteer groups, which gain strength
from the selfless efforts of many individ-
591
