Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
port at least semiannually to the President
on the effectiveness of the Order and
agency compliance with its provisions. By
May 1, 1980, OMB shall recommend to
the President whether or not there is a
continued need for the Order and any
further steps or actions necessary to
achieve its purposes.
SEC. 6. Coverage.
(a) As used in this Order, the term
regulation means both rules and regula-
tions issued by agencies including those
which establish conditions for financial
assistance. Closely related sets of regula-
tions shall be considered together.
(b) This Order does not apply to:
(1) regulations issued in accordance
with the formal rulemaking provi-
sions of the Administrative Proce-
dure Act (5 U.S.C. 556, 557);
(2) regulations issued with respect to
a military or foreign affairs func-
tion of the United States;
(3) matters related to agency manage-
ment or personnel;
(4) regulations related to Federal Gov-
ernment procurement;
(5) regulations issued by the independ-
ent regulatory agencies; or
(6) regulations that are issued in re-
sponse to an emergency or which
are governed by short-term statu-
tory or judicial deadlines. In these
cases, the agency shall publish in
the FEDERAL REGISTER a statement
of the reasons why it is impracti-
cable or contrary to the public in-
terest for the agency to follow the
procedures of this Order. Such a
statement shall include the name of
the policy official responsible for
this determination.
SEC. 7. This Order is intended to im-
prove the quality of Executive Agency
regulatory practices. It is not intended to
create delay in the process or provide new
grounds for judicial review. Nothing in
this Order shall be considered to super-
sede existing statutory obligations govern-
ing rulemaking.
SEC. 8. Unless extended, this Executive
Order expires on June 30, 1980.
The White House,
March 23, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:58 p.m., March 23, 1978]
NOTE: The Summary and Analysis of Public
Comments is printed in Part VI of the FEDERAL
REGISTER of March 24, 1978.
Improving Government
Regulations
Statement on Executive Order 12044.
March 23, 1978
I have often said that the American
people are sick and tired of excessive Fed-
eral regulation. To many citizens who
have to deal with it on a regular basis,
the Federal Government has become like
a foreign country, complete with its own
interests and its own language.
As a farmer and a small businessman,
and later as a Governor, I shared this re-
sentment and frustration. I resented the
cost of Government redtape, the interfer-
ence it represented in my business and
personal life, and not least of all, having
to deal with the bureaucratic gobbledy-
gook itself. I know I am not alone in this
frustration. Many Members of Congress
have expressed to me their personal con-
cerns in this area.
I came to Washington to reorganize a
Federal Government which had grown
more preoccupied with its own bureau-
cratic needs than with those of the people.
This Executive order is an instrument for
reversing this trend. It promises to make
Federal regulations clearer, less burden-
some, and more cost-effective.
First, it will direct that regulations be
written in plain English. Government
561
