Apr. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
members of your entourage, a pleas-
ant stay in Nigeria and a safe journey
back home at the end of what we expect
to be a rewarding visit and experience.
You are welcome.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Excellency,
General Obasanjo, distinguished officials
of the Military Government of Nigeria,
and the people who are friends of the
people of my country, the United States:
It is a personal privilege for me to
begin this first state visit of a President of
the United States to the sub-Saharan
region of Africa. It also reflects the in-
creasing role which so many nations of
this diverse continent are now playing in
international affairs.
I am pleased to come to Nigeria, where
the vision of your own government in
meeting African challenges has been an
inspiration far beyond the borders of your
own great country.
Quite apart from the great political
events which are shaping our times, the
American people have a longstanding
but growing interest in the continent of
Africa-its history, its cultural richness,
its increasingly developed economic
potential.
During the past years, we in the United
States have been enriched-and particu-
larly the last few months-by significant
visits of Nigerian painters, sculptors, mu-
sicians, and other artists. Our awareness
of your 2,000-year-old artistic tradition is
being enhanced even now, by such events
as the exhibit this month, in Washington,
of regional arts of the Nigerian people.
As I told General Obasanjo earlier
on his visit to Washington, I, myself, and
my family are avid readers of the fine
literary works of Chinua Achebe and
others who write of the past and present
life in your great country.
It is in this context of growing aware-
ness about African culture that so many
people in the United States are looking
back with increased interest to their
family origins here. But the relationship
between the United States and Nigeria is
based on current realities and common
hopes, as well as ancestral ties. We share
with you a desire to see all the people of
Africa at peace with each other, preserv-
ing their diversity and their national char-
acter, living in mutual respect, and en-
joying the fruits of development and of
democracy.
The presence of more than 15,000 Ni-
gerian students in the United States and
many Americans here underlines the
depth of our cooperation in the field of
education. We are also bound by eco-
nomic interests, and we are learning from
each other about trade and about indus-
trial and agricultural development.
Our relationship with you is one of
mutual dependence, and our goals should
always be to find ways of making this
relationship even more beneficial to both
our peoples. And we share the hope of
achieving peace with justice in southern
Africa.
I am particularly happy to renew my
close acquaintance with General Oba-
sanjo. We first met last October, when
he paid an official visit to the United
States. Since then, I have benefited from
his counsel in many ways.
I am especially pleased that the Ni-
gerian people and Government, your
leaders, are so deeply committed to dem-
ocratic principles. A freely elected assem-
bly is even now debating the draft of
your nation's new constitution. This
demonstration of faith in the judgment
of Nigerian citizens is heartening to all
of us in America who care so deeply
about self-determination, majority rule,
and human rights.
I'm looking forward to even closer co-
operation with Nigeria and with other
nations in Africa. And during this visit,
644
