Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
inconsistent standards of compli-
ance;
—duplicative, inconsistent paperwork
requirements and investigative ef-
forts;
-conflicts within agencies between
their program responsibilities and
their responsibility to enforce the
civil rights laws;
-confusion on the part of workers
about how and where to seek
redress;
-lack of accountability.
I am proposing today a series of steps
to bring coherence to the equal employ-
ment enforcement effort. These steps, to
be accomplished by the Reorganization
Plan and Executive Orders, constitute an
important step toward consolidation of
equal employment opportunity enforce-
ment. They will be implemented over
the next two years, so that the agencies
involved may continue their internal
reform.
Its experience and broad scope make
the EEOC suitable for the role of princi-
pal Federal agency in fair employment
enforcement. Located in the Executive
Branch and responsible to the President,
the EEOC has developed considerable
expertise in the field of employment dis-
crimination since Congress created it by
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Com-
mission has played a pioneer role in de-
fining both employment discrimination
and its appropriate remedies.
While it has had management prob-
lems in past administrations, the EEOC's
new leadership is making substantial prog-
ress in correcting them. In the last seven
months the Commission has redesigned
its internal structures and adopted proven
management techniques. Early experience
with these procedures indicates a high
degree of success in reducing and expedit-
ing new cases. At my direction, the Of-
fice of Management and Budget is actively
assisting the EEOC to ensure that these
reforms continue.
The Reorganization Plan I am sub-
mitting will accomplish the following:
• On July 1, 1978, abolish the Equal
Employment Opportunity Coordinating
Council (42 U.S.C. 2000e-14) and trans-
fer its duties to the EEOC (no positions
or funds shifted).
• On October 1, 1978, shift enforce-
ment of equal employment opportunity
for Federal employees from the CSC to
the EEOC (100 positions and $6.5 mil-
lion shifted).
• On July 1, 1979, shift responsibility
for enforcing both the Equal Pay Act and
the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act from the Labor Department to the
EEOC (198 positions and $5.3 million
shifted for Equal Pay; 119 positions and
$3.5 million for Age Discrimination).
• Clarify the Attorney General's au-
thority to initiate "pattern or practice"
suits under Title VII in the public sector.
In addition, I will issue an Executive
Order on October 1, 1978, to consolidate
the contract compliance program—now
the responsibility of Labor and eleven
"compliance agencies"-into the Labor
Department (1,517 positions and $33.1
million shifted).
These proposed transfers and consoli-
dations reduce from fifteen to three the
number of Federal agencies having im-
portant equal employment opportunity
responsibilities under Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Federal
contract compliance provisions.
Each element of my Plan is important
to the success of the entire proposal.
By abolishing the Equal Employment
Opportunity Coordinating Council and
transferring its responsibilities to the
EEOC, this plan places the Commission
at the center of equal employment oppor-
402
