Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(g) Serve as the chief point of liaison
between the President and the
Corporation.
(h) The Secretary of Commerce shall
timely submit to the President each year
the report (including evaluations and
recommendations) provided for in Sec-
tion 404(a) of the Act (47 U.S.C.
744(a)).
(i) The Secretary of Commerce shall
coordinate the performance of these
functions with the Secretary of State. The
Corporation and other concerned Execu-
tive agencies shall provide the Secretary
of Commerce with such assistance, docu-
ments, and other cooperation as will en-
able the Secretary to carry out these
functions.
2-4. Other Telecommunications Func-
tions. Certain functions assigned, subject
to the authority and control of the Presi-
dent to the Director of the Office of Tele-
communications Policy by Section 2 of
Executive Order No. 11556 were trans-
ferred to the Secretary of Commerce.
These functions, subject to the authority
and control of the President, are set forth
in the following subsections.
2-401. The Secretary of Commerce
shall serve as the President's principal ad-
viser on telecommunications policies per-
taining to the Nation's economic and tech-
nological advancement and to the regula-
tion of the telecommunications industry.
2-402. The Secretary of Commerce
shall advise the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget on the develop-
ment of policies relating to the procure-
ment and management of Federal tele-
communications systems.
2-403. The Secretary of Commerce
shall conduct studies and evaluations con-
cerning telecommunications research and
development, and concerning the initia-
tion, improvement, expansion, testing, op-
eration, and use of Federal telecommuni-
cations systems. The Secretary shall advise
appropriate agencies, including the Office
of Management and Budget, of the rec-
ommendations which result from such
studies and evaluations.
2-404. The Secretary of Commerce
shall develop and set forth, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of State and other
interested agencies, plans, policies, and
programs which relate to international
telecommunications issues, conferences,
and negotiations. The Secretary of Com-
merce shall coordinate economic, techni-
cal, operational and related preparations
for United States participation in inter-
national telecommunications conferences
and negotiations. The Secretary shall pro-
vide advice and assistance to the Secretary
of State on international telecommunica-
tions policies to strengthen the position
and serve the best interests of the United
States, in support of the Secretary of
State's responsibility for the conduct of
foreign affairs.
2-405. The Secretary of Commerce
shall provide for the coordination of the
telecommunications activities of the Ex-
ecutive Branch, and shall assist in the
formulation of policies and standards for
those activities, including but not limited
to considerations of interoperability, pri-
vacy, security, spectrum use and emer-
gency readiness.
2-406. The Secretary of Commerce
shall develop and set forth telecommuni-
cations policies pertaining to the Nation's
economic and technological advancement
and to the regulation of the telecommuni-
cations industry.
2-407. The Secretary of Commerce
shall ensure that the Executive Branch
views on telecommunications matters are
effectively presented to the Federal Com-
munications Commission and, in coordi-
nation with the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, to the Con-
gress.
600
