May 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
leading to an even greater country in the phasize the crucial support and the
years ahead.
Thank you very much.
HARRY A. APPLEGATE. Mr. President,
ever since Congress created attention to
this instructional phase of education, we
believe we have met the challenge with a
very successful program. But the unique-
ness of it has been our insistence on co-
operation and placement with the private
sector. We continue a national advisory
board, which consists of representatives of
some 60 major corporations in the Na-
tion, and we continue a congressional ad-
visory board, with some 30 Members of
the Senate and the House, continuing to
help guide and direct us in that effort.
It is our pleasure to be here this morn-
ing. And on behalf of the delegation and
the national officers, we sincerely ap-
preciate your interest and your show of
support. It's our pleasure to be here.
I would like to introduce to you our na-
tional president, Ken Conner, who has a
presentation to make.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank
Thank you, Mr.
Applegate.
MR. CONNER. Mr. President, on be-
half of the 180,000 Distributive Educa-
tion Clubs of America members across the
the country, we'd like to present you
with
this official DECA cardigan. Since you
staunch support in the Congress for your
program. And I believe that the presence
here of many of the key Members of the
Congress this morning is indicative of that
support. I know how much it means to
me to have their experience, their back-
ground, and their strong partnership in
trying to shape a greater country. And I
particularly want to thank the Members
of Congress for being here.
And, Ken, this is a gift that I will wear
with pride and appreciation. It will be
a constant reminder to me of what you all
mean to me personally and what you
mean to our country, now and in the
future.
Thank you very much again.
You all have a good time in Wash-
ington.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Harry
A. Applegate is executive director of the Dis-
tributive Education Clubs of America, and
Robert Kenneth Conner is president of the or-
ganization's high school division.
Mother's Day, 1978
Proclamation 4570. May 11, 1978
have brought the cardigan back into style By the President of the United States
lately-[laughter]—we thought it would
be appropriate, and we hope that you will
wear it with our support.
We also appreciate the support that
your administration has given us, and we
hope to continue that support in the
years to come.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. This might inspire me
to make another fireside chat. [Laughter]
I might say that it would be a mistake
for me to lose an opportunity again to em-
of America
A Proclamation
Motherhood is a lifelong commitment.
It is a promise to share in fulfilling all
the unique potential of a helpless new-
born child, and to shape that person into
an independent, responsible adult. For
some, motherhood means guiding bright
minds, strong bodies, and exquisite tal-
ents-maintaining a delicate balance be-
tween humanity and the special gifts of
890
