Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. Congress has recently passed a re-
strictive Hyde amendment. Could you
give me your view of HEW's liberal inter-
pretation of this amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not favor and
I have not favored the use of Federal
funds to finance abortions. I am willing to
use Federal funds if the pregnancy is a
result of rape or incest.
I think, though, that this should be
administered in such a way that women
are not encouraged to lie about it and to
use that legal, congressional mandate as
an excuse for abortions when no rape or
incest has taken place. And if it appears
to me and to Joe Califano, who feels the
same way I do about the question, that
the ruling is being abused and that women
who have not actually been raped or had
a pregnancy caused by incest, then I
would favor a tightening up of those
HEW regulations. I think we ought to
be very strict about the administration of
the law and the ruling.
INDIAN LAND CLAIMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Francis
Anthill, I am a Penobscot Indian, full-
blooded. I live at Indian Island, Maine.
Would you veto any attempt by the
Congress to abolish the Penobscot and
Passamaquoddy Indian land claim suit?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that I'll face
that prospect. I can't imagine the Con-
gress abolishing a lawsuit by statute.
I would say yes, I would veto such
legislation.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, let me add one
other thing, because I'm not sure I un-
derstand all the meaning of your question.
If I felt that the suit had been resolved
in a fair way, say, based on the settlement
that the Indians have already agreed to,
then the lawsuit would no longer be neces-
sary. But I would not take away the rights
of the Indians that have already been
negotiated by short circuiting the process
with Federal legislation.
Is that what you meant? In other words,
if the lawsuit is successfully negotiated and
the Indians accept the negotiation, then
the lawsuit would no longer be needed; is
that correct? Did I understand your ques-
tion right?
Q. Would you veto any attempt by the
Congress to abolish the Passamaquoddi
and Penobscot Indian land claim suit?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes. I
would veto any legislation that would try
to resolve the whole Indian claims ques-
tion just by abolishing your suit. Yes, I
would veto that.
IMPORTANCE OF THE INDIVIDUAL
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. My
name is Marie Mathieson, and I live in
Bangor, and I attend John Baps High
School.
My question to you tonight, sir, is,
whom do you consider contributes more to
the welfare of our country, a coal miner
or a United States Senator? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
there are coal miners who are now United
States Senators. And there are peanut
farmers who are now United States Presi-
dents. [Laughter] So, I don't think you
could say who contributes more. Quite
often when someone does become a
United States Senator, it's because in
their own profession-whether it be a col-
lege professor or a schoolteacher or a
farmer like myself or a miner or perhaps
an engineer or business executive or a
lawyer-they have shown leadership
qualities, and they've either been in the
Congress or been a Governor and proven
to be a good representative of many
people. And because of the trust that
they've built up among people who know
them, they've been sent to the United
356
