Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
generated by these requirements; the pub-
lic benefits little, if at all. My legislative
proposals would authorize the Office of
Personnel Management to delegate per-
sonnel authority to departments and
agencies.
The risk of abuse would be minimized
by performance agreements between
agencies and the Office of Personnel
Management, by requirements for report-
ing, and by follow-up evaluations.
7. Changes in the Veterans Preference
Law
Granting preference in Federal em-
ployment to veterans of military service
has long been an important and worth-
while national policy. It will remain our
policy because of the debt we owe those
who have served our nation. It is espe-
cially essential for disabled veterans, and
there should be no change in current law
which would adversely affect them. But
the Veterans Preference Act of 1944 also
conferred a lifetime benefit upon the non-
disabled veteran, far beyond anything
provided by other veterans readjustment
laws like the GI Bill, the benefits of which
are limited to 10 years following discharge
from the service. Current law also severely
limits agency ability to consider qualified
applicants by forbidding consideration of
all except the three highest-scoring appli-
cants the so-called "rule of three." As a
result of the 5-point lifetime preference
and the "rule of three", women, minori-
ties and other qualified non-veteran can-
didates often face insuperable obstacles in
their quest for Federal jobs.
Similarly, where a manager believes a
program would benefit from fewer em-
ployees, the veterans preference provides
an absolute lifetime benefit to veterans. In
any Reduction in Force, all veterans may
"bump" all non-veterans, even those with
far greater seniority. Thus women and
minorities who have recently acquired
middle management positions are more
likely to lose their jobs in any cutback.
Therefore I propose:
-Limiting the 5-point veterans prefer-
ence to the 10 year period following
their discharge from the service, be-
ginning 2 years after legislation is
enacted;
-Expanding the number of applicants
who may be considered by a hiring
agency from three to seven, unless
the Office of Personnel Management
should determine that another num-
ber or category ranking is more ap-
propriate;
-Eliminating the veterans preference
for retired military officers of field
grade rank or above and limiting its
availability for other military per-
sonnel who have retired after at least
20 years in service to 3 years follow-
ing their retirement;
-Restricting the absolute preference
now accorded veterans in Reduc-
tions in Force to their first 3 years
of
Federal employment, after which
time they would be granted 5 extra
years of seniority for purposes of de-
termining their rights when Reduc-
tion in Force occurs.
These changes would focus the vet-
erans preference more sharply to help dis-
abled veterans and veterans of the Viet
Nam conflict. I have already proposed a
2-year extension of the Veterans Read-
justment Appointment Authority to give
these veterans easier entry into the Fed-
eral workforce; I support amendments to
waive the educational limitation for dis-
abled veterans and to expand Federal job
openings for certain veterans in grades
GS-5 to GS-7 under this authority. I
propose that veterans with 50% or higher
disability be eligible for non-competitive
appointments.
These changes are intended to let the
Federal Government meet the needs of
the American people more effectively. At
448
