Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 3
RALPH LAZARUS, of Cincinnati, chairman of
the board and chief executive officer of
Federated Department Stores (reappoint-
ment);
C. J. MEDBERRY, of Los Angeles, chairman of
the board of BankAmerica Corp. and Bank
of America NT & SA (reappointment);
KENNETH D. NADEN, of Bethesda, Md., presi-
dent of the National Council of Farmer
Cooperatives;
CHARLES H. PILLARD, international president
of the International Brotherhood of Elec-
trical Workers (reappointment);
ELSPETH D. ROSTOW, dean of the Lyndon B.
Johnson School of Public Affairs at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin;
WILLIAM J. ROCHE, vice president of Texas
Instruments Inc.;
J. STANFORD SMITH, chairman and chief exec-
utive officer, International Paper Co.;
JEAN H. SISCo, coordinator for business and
community affairs at American University
in Washington, D.C.;
THEODORE SORENSEN, a New York attorney
and former Special Counsel to the President
(1961-1964);
ROY UTKE, president of Sunkist Growers, Inc.,
in Los Angeles (reappointment);
C. WILLIAM VERITY, JR., chairman of the
board of directors, Armco Steel Corp., in
Middletown, Ohio (reappointment);
DON A. WOODWARD, of Pendleton, Oreg., in-
ternational trade affairs representative of
the National Association of Wheat Growers
(reappointment).
Food Aid Convention
Announcement of Increase in United States
Contribution. March 3, 1978
President Carter has doubled the U.S.
food aid commitment to developing na-
tions.
The President has authorized U.S. offi-
cials, now in Geneva negotiating a new
Food Aid Convention (FAC) agreement,
to guarantee that the United States will
deliver up to half of a global food target
of 10 million metric tons of grains annu-
ally. The World Food Conference set the
target in 1974.
Under the new U.S. pledge, develop-
ing countries are guaranteed a specific
quantity of food aid, even in years when
supplies are scarce.
Approval of the sharp increase in U.S.
food aid guarantees was recommended to
the President by Agriculture Secretary
Bob Bergland.
The new pledge-almost two-and-one-
half times greater than the existing
United States Food Aid Convention com-
mitment which expires on June 30,
1978-will be met under the current level
of Public Law 480 shipments. The United
States commitment had been 1.89 million
tons annually since 1967.
United States negotiators will today
pledge 4.47 million tons of grain annually
to the Food Aid Convention. If other
FAC donor countries collectively con-
tribute more than the minimum Amer-
ican pledge, then the United States will
increase its contribution on a matching
ton-for-ton basis. The United States will
also propose special FAC provisions de-
signed to increase food assistance to meet
extraordinary situations in developing
countries.
In authorizing the increased U.S. con-
tribution, which will be announced in
Geneva today, President Carter said he
has taken the step in an effort to solve
three major problems affecting food aid
programs.
"First, the world level of food aid falls
short of the needs of developing coun-
tries," the President said. "The interna-
tional community has agreed that a mini-
mum level of 10 million tons of grain is
needed each year. However, this target
has not been achieved in recent years.
The fight against world hunger through
food aid programs cannot be left to the
small number of food exporting and tra-
ditional donor countries.
"Second, food aid levels have fluctu-
ated without much regard for the needs
455
