Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 20
minating the affairs of any agencies abol-
ished herein and for such further meas-
ures and dispositions as such Director
deems necessary to effectuate the purposes
of this Reorganization Plan.
SECTION 303. Interim Officers. The
President may authorize any persons who,
immediately prior to the effective date of
this Plan, held positions in the Executive
Branch to which they were appointed by
and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, to act as Director, Deputy Direc-
tor, and Associate Directors of the
Agency, until those offices are for the first
time filled pursuant to the provisions of
this Reorganization Plan or by recess ap-
pointment, as the case may be. The Presi-
dent may authorize any such person to
receive the compensation attached to the
Office in respect of which that person so
serves, in lieu of other compensation from
the United States.
SECTION 304. Effective Date. The pro-
visions of this Reorganization Plan shall
become effective at such time or times, on
or before April 1, 1979, as the President
shall specify, but not sooner than the ear-
liest time allowable under Section 906 of
Title 5, United States Code.
Clifford R. Allen
Statement on the Death of the Representative
From Tennessee. June 19, 1978
With the death of Congressman Clif-
ford Allen, the Congress has lost a man
of great integrity who dedicated his life
to public service. He served the people of
Tennessee in many capacities for 30 years
and proved himself an earnest spokesman
for our Nation's good in his all-too-brief
tenure in the House of Representatives.
Congressman Allen well deserved his
reputation as a champion of the common
man. His concern for the welfare of all
people is best exemplified by his success-
ful effort to provide free textbooks for the
schoolchildren of Tennessee.
He worked all his life for the things in
which he believed and for the people of his
State and country. I extend my own deep-
est sympathies to his family.
Veto of Bill To Reduce Federal
Firefighters' Work Week
Message to the House of Representatives
Returning H.R. 3161 Without Approval.
June 19, 1978
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval,
H.R. 3161, a bill which would substan-
tially reduce the work week for Federal
firefighters, while maintaining their pay
at nearly the present level. I have three
principal objections to this bill. First, this
measure would reduce firefighters' work
week without reducing the premium
pay which was designed for a longer
standby schedule. In effect, it would raise
firefighters' total hourly pay by more than
15%. If only the basic hourly pay is con-
sidered, without overtime pay, the in-
crease is almost 30%. I do not believe this
is justified, particularly in light of the
5.5% pay cap I have recommended for
Federal employees as part of my efforts to
hold down inflation. Moreover, the length
of the work week for Federal firefighters
must be considered in light of the nature
of their duty. Fires tend to be less frequent
at Federal installations than in urban
areas. Comparatively, there is a very low
incidence of fire and there are very few
severe fires.
Second, H.R. 3161 would impair the
ability of agency heads to manage the
work force and regulate the work week.
Third, H.R. 3161 would require the
Department of Defense alone to hire 4,-
1133
