Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
goods and services to pay for our pur-
chases abroad.
A Cabinet-level task force, headed by
the Secretary of Commerce, will develop
these additional measures for me to pro-
mote exports and report back within 60
days.
Now I will discuss the steps that we
must take to protect our national eco-
nomic growth and the jobs and the pros-
perity of our people from the most serious
threat of growing inflation.
Conserving energy, increasing efficien-
cy and productivity, eliminating waste,
reducing oil imports, expanding our ex-
ports will help to fight inflation. But mak-
ing the fight a success will require firm
government policies and full private
cooperation.
The inflation that we are suffering
today began many years ago and was
aggravated in 1973 and 1974 by a quad-
rupling of OPEC oil prices, widespread
crop shortages, excessive Soviet grain
purchases, substantial devaluation of the
dollar, and a worldwide industrial boom
that led to double-digit inflation both here
in the United States and around the
world. Inflation has now become em-
bedded in the very tissue of our economy.
It has resisted the most severe recession in
a generation. It persists because all of us—
business, labor, farmers, consumers—are
caught on a treadmill which none can
stop alone. Each group tries to raise its
income to keep up with present and an-
ticipated rising costs, and eventually we
all lose the inflationary battle together.
There are no easy answers. We will not
solve inflation by increasing unemploy-
ment. We will not impose wage and price
controls. We will work with measures
that avoid both these extremes.
Our first and most direct efforts are
within government itself. Where govern-
ment contributes to inflation, that con-
tribution must be lessened; where govern-
ment expenditures are too high, that
spending must be reduced; where govern-
ment imposes an inflationary burden on
business, labor, and the consumers, those
burdens must be lightened; wherever
government can set an example of re-
straint and efficiency, it must do so.
The budget that I've proposed for the
next fiscal year is both tight and capable
of meeting the Nation's most pressing
needs. The prospective deficit in the
budget is as large as we can afford with-
out compromising our hopes for a bal-
anced economic growth and a declining
inflation rate. But, as always, pressures are
developing on all sides to increase spend-
ing and to enlarge the deficit.
Potential outlay increases in the 1979
budget which are now being considered
seriously by congressional committees
would add between $9 billion and $13 bil-
lion to spending levels next year. The
price of some of these politically attractive
programs would escalate rapidly in future
years. I'm especially concerned about
tuition tax credits, highway and urban
transit programs, postal service financing,
farm legislation, and defense spending.
By every means at my disposal, I will resist
these pressures and protect the integrity
of the budget.
Indeed, as opportunities arise, we must
work to reduce the budget deficit and to
ensure that beyond 1979 the deficit de-
clines steadily and moves us toward a bal-
anced budget. I will work closely with the
Congress, and if necessary, I will exercise
my veto authority to keep the 1979 budget
deficit at or below the limits that I've
proposed.
The Federal Government must also act
directy to moderate inflation. Two months
ago I proposed that in each industry and
each sector of our economy that wage and
price increases this year be voluntarily
held substantially below the average wage
increases for the last 2 years. I'm deter-
723
