Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
Horn of Africa and on Cyprus. And we
have negotiated two Panama Canal
Treaties that will enhance our country's
relations with all the nations of Latin
America.
The Middle East
In an effort to break with the rigid
approaches of the past and bring about
an overall peace settlement, I have looked
to three basic principles: normalization of
political, economic and cultural relations
through peace treaties; withdrawal of
armed forces from occupied territory to
recognized and secure borders and the
establishment of effective security meas-
ures; and a resolution of the Palestinian
question.
Significant progress toward peace in
the Middle East was made last year; we
particularly applaud President Sadat's
courageous initiative, reciprocated by
Prime Minister Begin, in launching direct
negotiations. The United States will con-
tinue this year to encourage all parties to
resolve this deep-seated conflict.
Southern Africa
The entering Administration inherited
problems in Rhodesia, Namibia, and
South Africa.
-With the British, the United States
launched new Rhodesian discussions last
year. The Anglo-American Plan of Sep-
tember 1 sets forth fair and workable prin-
ciples for majority rule: a transition pe-
riod leading to free elections, a UN pres-
ence, a constitution with a judicially pro-
tected bill of rights, and a Zimbabwe
Development Fund.
-The five-power Contact Group, in
which the United States participates, has
held discussions with South Africa and
with the Southwest Africa Peoples Orga-
nization and other interested parties on an
internationally acceptable settlement for
an independent Namibia under majority
rule. This effort has produced wide agree-
ment, including provisions for a substan-
tial UN presence.
-The United States has told the South
African Prime Minister that unless his
nation begins a progressive transforma-
tion toward full political participation for
all its people, our relations will suffer. We
supported a Union Nations arms em-
bargo on South Africa, prohibited "gray
area" sales, and began a review of US/
South African economic relations.
The Horn of Africa
Arms supplied by the Soviet Union now
fuel both sides of a conflict in the Horn
of Africa between Somalia and Ethiopia.
There is a danger that the Soviet Union
and Cuba will commit their own soldiers
in this conflict, transforming it from a
local war to a confrontation with broader
strategic implications.
We deplore the fact that disagreements
in this region have grown-with the assist-
ance of outside powers-into bloody con-
flict. We have made clear to both sides
that we will supply no arms for aggres-
sive purposes. We will not recognize forc-
ible changes in boundaries. We want to
see the fighting end and the parties move
from the battlefield to the negotiating
table.
Cyprus
We hope that the groundwork was laid
in 1977 for a permanent settlement in
Cyprus and we are encouraging move-
ment in that direction.
PRESERVING PEACE
During the past year, the Administra-
tion has assessed the threats to our own
and our Allies' security, as well as our
collective strength to combat these threats.
121
