Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
maintenance of necessary files and data
bases, as necessary in the performance of
assigned responsibilities for the manage-
ment of electromagnetic spectrum.
(b) Conduct research and analysis of
electromagnetic propagation, radio sys-
tems characteristics, and operating tech-
niques affecting the utilization of the elec-
tromagnetic spectrum in coordination
with specialized, related research and
analysis performed by other Federal agen-
cies in their areas of responsibility.
(c) Conduct research and analysis in
the general field of telecommunications
sciences in support of assigned functions
and in support of other Government
agencies.
5-102. The Secretary of Commerce
shall participate, as appropriate, in eval-
uating the capability of telecommunica-
tions resources, in recommending reme-
dial actions, and in developing policy
options.
5-2. Department of State.
5-201. With respect to telecommunica-
tions, the Secretary of State shall exercise
primary authority for the conduct of for-
eign policy, including the determination
of United States positions and the conduct
of United States participation in negotia-
tions with foreign governments and inter-
national bodies. In exercising this respon-
sibility the Secretary of State shall coordi-
nate with other agencies as appropriate,
and, in particular, shall give full consider-
ation to the Federal Communications
Commission's regulatory and policy re-
sponsibility in this area.
5-202. The Secretary of State shall con-
tinue to perform the following functions
previously assigned by Executive Order
No. 11191, as amended:
(a) Exercise the supervision provided
for in Section 201 (a) (4) of the Commu-
nications Satellite Act of 1962, as
amended (47 U.S.C. 721 (a) (4)); be re-
sponsible, although the Secretary of Com-
merce is the chief point of liaison, for in-
structing the Communications Satellite
Corporation in its role as the designated
United States representative to the Inter-
national Telecommunications Satellite
Organization; and direct the foreign rela-
tions of the United States with respect to
actions under the Communications Satel-
lite Act of 1962, as amended.
(b) Coordinate, in accordance with the
applicable interagency agreements, the
performance of these functions with the
Secretary of Commerce, the Federal Com-
munications Commission, other concerned
Executive agencies, and the Communica-
tions Satellite Corporation (see 47 U.S.C.
731-735). The Corporation and other
concerned Executive agencies shall pro-
vide the Secretary of State with such as-
sistance, documents, and other coopera-
tion as will enable the Secretary to carry
out these functions.
5-3. General Services Administration. The
Administrator of General Services shall
coordinate with the Secretary of Com-
merce, the Director of the Office of Sci-
ence and Technology Policy, and the Na-
tional Security Council the development
of policies, plans, programs, and stand-
ards for the emergency use of telecommu-
nications.
SECTION 6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
6-1. Transfer Provisions.
6-101. In order to reflect the transfer
and assignment made by Section 5B of Re-
organization Plan No. 1 of 1977 and Sec-
tion 13 of this Order, the President's
Memorandum of August 21, 1963, en-
titled "Establishment of the National
Communications System" (28 FR 9413,
3 CFR 1959-1963 Compilation)
603
