Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 6
-requiring development of water con-
servation programs as a condition of
contracts for storage or delivery of
municipal and industrial water sup-
plies from federal projects;
-requiring the General Services Ad-
ministration, in consultation with af-
fected agencies, to establish water
conservation goals and standards in
Federal buildings and facilities;
-encouraging water conservation in
the agricultural assistance programs
of the Department of Agriculture
and the Department of Interior
which affect water consumption in
water-short areas; and
-requesting all Federal agencies to ex-
amine their programs and policies
so that they can implement appro-
priate measures to increase water
conservation and re-use.
• A directive to the Secretary of the
Interior to improve the implementation
of irrigation repayment and water service
contract procedures under existing au-
thorities of the Bureau of Reclamation.
The Secretary will:
—require that new and renegotiated
contracts include provisions for re-
calculation and renegotiation of wa-
ter rates every five years. This will
replace the previous practice of 40-
year contracts which often do not re-
flect inflation and thus do not meet
the beneficiaries' repayment obliga-
tions;
-under existing authority add provi-
sions to recover operation and main-
tenance costs when existing contracts
are renegotiated, or earlier where
existing contracts have adjustment
clauses;
-more precisely calculate and imple-
ment the "ability to pay" provision in
existing law which governs recovery
of a portion of project capital costs.
Preparation of legislation to allow
States the option of requiring higher prices
for municipal and industrial water sup-
plies from Federal projects in order to
promote conservation, provided that State
revenues in excess of Federal costs would
be returned to municipalities or other
public water supply entities for use in
water conservation or rehabilitation of
water supply systems.
FEDERAL-STATE COOPERATION
States must be the focal point for water
resource management. The water reforms
are based on this guiding principle. There-
fore, I am taking several initiatives to
strengthen Federal-State relations in the
water policy area and to develop a new,
creative partnership. In addition to pro-
posing that States increase their roles and
responsibilities in water resources devel-
opment through cost-sharing, the actions
I am taking include:
Proposing a substantial increase from
$3 million to $25 million annually in the
funding of State water planning under
the existing 50%-50% matching program
administered by the Water Resources
Council. State water planning would in-
tegrate water management and imple-
mentation programs which emphasize
water conservation and which are tai-
lored to each State's needs including
assessment of water delivery system reha-
bilitation needs and development of pro-
grams to protect and manage ground-
water and instream flows.
• Preparation of legislation to provide
$25 million annually in 50%-50% match-
ing grant assistance to States to implement
water conservation technical assistance
programs. These funds could be passed
through to counties and cities for use in
urban or rural water conservation pro-
grams. This program will be administered
by the Water Resources Council in con-
1049
