Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
retary of Labor, the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, the
Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary
of Energy, the Chairman, Civil Service
Commission, the Director, Community
Services Administration, the Chairman of
the Council of Economic Advisers, the
Administrator, Environmental Protection
Agency, the Administrator, General Serv-
ices Administration, the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, the Admin-
istrator, Small Business Administration,
the Director of the United States Arms
Control and Disarmament Agency
This Administration has initiated a
major effort to strengthen military effec-
tiveness and to reduce unnecessary De-
fense expenditures. Many
Many required
required
changes can be implemented with mini-
mal impact on individuals and communi-
ties. Other changes, however, will involve
a requirement to close installations or
eliminate jobs and these could result in a
serious economic impact in some localities.
I am fully committed to a reduction in
Defense costs, but the burden should not
be borne solely by the citizens who happen
to reside or work in an impacted area.
Therefore, I am equally committed to the
implementation of these changes in a
manner that reflects my genuine concern
for those individuals and communities
that are directly affected.
I have asked Secretary Brown to con-
tinue to chair the Economic Adjustment
Committee in order to assure that coordi-
nated Federal assistance is provided to
impacted communities when it is required
and that increased consideration is given
to social and economic impacts in the
implementation of Defense realignment
actions.
The Economic Adjustment Committee
has helped many communities to success-
fully overcome the impact of Defense
changes in the past. The scope and extent
of possible future changes, however, im-
pose a requirement for increased partici-
pation and priority attention by all agen-
cies involved with the Committee. To
meet this need, I have today signed an
Executive Order designating you as a
member of the Committee. I have also
designated Jack Watson, my Assistant for
Intergovernmental Affairs and Secretary
to the Cabinet, as a member of this Com-
mittee. Additionally, you should name a
representative to work closely with the
permanent Committee staff in the Office
of Economic Adjustment.
My objective in issuing the order to
strengthen the Committee is to assure that
available Federal resources are coordi-
nated and targeted in a manner that is
responsive to the most important needs of
Defense impacted communities. Priority
consideration should be given to require-
ments for technical and financial assist-
ance or other actions that may be required
to support the Committee's projects.
You will appreciate that Defense im-
pacts vary widely and they pose a complex
challenge for the affected communities.
and states. They also serve as a test of the
ability of the Federal departments and
agencies to provide effective assistance. I
therefore expect you to review your agen-
cy's support of economic adjustment as-
sistance projects with the objective of
identifying improvements, wherever pos-
sible.
Recognizing that funding and property
are two Federal resources most often re-
quired to resolve local impact problems, I
have asked the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to (1) review
arrangements for identification of eco-
nomic adjustment resources in the budgets
of appropriate Federal agency programs,
and (2) work with the Department of De-
fense and the General Services Adminis-
tration to ensure that Federal property
procedures are streamlined to expedite
595
