Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
ing of land and money as we are in the
State of Maine?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, the
Indian claims case in the State of Maine
was initiated, I think, about 1971, when
copies of old treaties were discovered and
the Indians felt that they had a legit-
imate claim in court. Under the laws of
our Nation, the Interior Department is
responsible for Native Americans and is
obligated to defend and to protect and
even to intercede in court on behalf of
the Indians, and the Attorney General is
required to represent the Secretary of In-
terior in that relationship.
When I came into office a year ago, this
case had been continuing for a long time.
And if you think back a year, you can re-
member that almost every property owner
in Maine was in danger of not being able
to transfer their own property or to buy
additional property, because no one could
get a clear title even to their own land
because of the threat of the Indian law-
suits.
Well, obviously, I've got as much as I
can handle as President. And I could rec-
ognize very clearly that there are more
non-Indians than there are Indians in
Maine. So, politically, there's no advan-
tage in trying to resolve a question of this
kind.
I could have washed my hands of it
and said let the people of Maine sweat
it out. But I felt then that there was a
need for us to resolve it fairly quickly, and
we've been working on it for a year.
I sent the best lawyer I know up here
to work with it, Judge William Gunter,
and he worked out an agreement that he
thought was fair, that the Indians re-
jected. Later, I got Eliot Cutler from
Bangor, Maine, knowing your people, to
come in and take over as the head of a
negotiating committee.
What we've worked out, I think, is a
very good resolution. The Indians have
accepted it. And what it says is that any-
body in Maine that owns less than 50,000
acres of land will no longer have to worry
about lawsuit attacks on their rights or
deeds to their own property. That's an
agreement that I reached on behalf of the
American people and the Congress will
have to ratify.
The only ones left still not resolved are
14 landowners in Maine who have more
than 50,000 dollars (acres) ยน and the
State of Maine itself. What we have
negotiated doesn't put any obligation on
those large landowners, nor the govern-
ment of Maine.
The Indians have said, if you want to
accept it, fine. We are ready to accept it
on those terms. But if the Governor of
Maine or the 14 landowners don't want
to accept it, they have three choices. They
can either continue to negotiate, they can
accept the agreement that we worked out
and have an end to it, or they can stay
in court and litigate. I have no prefer-
ence about it.
I don't have any personal interest in
it, as you well know, but I thought it was
good to get this question out of the way
as quickly as possible to let the people of
Maine, in two-thirds of the area of your
State, stop worrying about possible fu-
ture lawsuits about which they know very
little and over which they had very little
control.
So, I think I've done my job as well as
I could. We have not imposed the will of
the executive branch on the State of
is still completely free to do anything it
Maine at all. The government of Maine
chooses.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. One other part of your
question, how many other States will be
1 Printed in the transcript.
351
