Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the members of the Community—at the
Belgrade Review Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe.
Finally, in stressing our commitment to
European unity, I look forward to con-
tinuing a close and productive associa-
tion between the United States and the
European Community in the years ahead.
And I can think of no more fitting tribute
to what you are doing than to cite the
words of Jean Monnet, the father of Eu-
ropean unity: "You are not making a
coalition of states; you are uniting
peoples."
NOTE: The meeting began at approximately
3 p.m. in the Community Conference Room
at the Commission's headquarters. Prior to
the meeting, the President met with Roy
Jenkins, President of the Commission.
The text of the remarks was released at
Brussels, Belgium.
Brussels, Belgium
Text of Remarks at a Meeting of the
North Atlantic Council. January 6, 1978
Mr. Secretary General, General Haig,
and members of the Council:
I am happy to meet again with the
North Atlantic Council, after our success-
ful discussions in London last May.
I come to see you at the end of a
journey which has taken me to seven na-
tions and which, from beginning to end,
has reminded me of the causes for which
our alliance was formed.
At every point on this journey, in East
and West, in nations trying to cope with
their poverty and those adjusting to the
consequences of material wealth, I have
emphasized the vitality of democratic
rule, individual freedoms, human rights.
We in this hall understand those values
well. Without them, the West stands for
nothing at all. And we also know, too
often from personal experience, the cost
the defense of these liberties can demand.
Yesterday, I walked with President Gis-
card d'Estaing along the beaches of Nor-
mandy—as I might also have walked in
Anzio, in Verdun, or here in Belgium in
Flanders Field. If those names fill us
simultaneously with mourning and with
pride, it is because they remind us of the
price that has been paid for our freedom
before, the price we hope never to have to
pay again.
No one who recalls those sacrifices can
wish them ever to be repeated. The an-
cient soil of Europe bears constant, visible
evidence of the carnage that war inevita-
bly brings. In Warsaw, I saw brave people
who have rebuilt much of the graceful
city that war took from them; but what
is new only emphasizes how much of the
old was lost. Here in Belgium, too often
the battlefield of Europe, every family
knows of friends, homes, dreams that have
been crushed by war.
That is the challenge for our alliance:
to defend our values fearlessly, while tire-
lessly working to prevent war.
We know that the path to lasting peace
depends on human understandings, nego-
tiated agreements, acts of good will; the
brave initiatives in the Middle East shine
a ray of hope onto all international ef-
forts. But we are united in believing that
our defense must always be strong enough
to deter any thoughts of aggression-that
we must be prepared for combat we al-
ways hope to avoid.
When I met with the leaders of the
alliance in London this past May, I was
impressed with the allies' seriousness of
purpose and by our common determina-
tion to prepare NATO for the challenges
of the next decade.
At that meeting, we agreed to embark
on four major efforts:
36
