Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 31, 1978
Labor Disputes in the
Coal Industry
Statement Following Mineworkers'
Approval of a Contract. March 25, 1978
I am pleased that the members of the
United Mine Workers have voted to ap-
prove the latest coal contract. Miners will
now be returning to work early next
week, and full coal production will re-
sume shortly.
From the outset, we have known that
the only satisfactory conclusion to this
strike would be a collectively bargained
agreement, acceptable to both sides. Over
the past 6 weeks, our efforts have been
directed toward that end.
With Friday's vote, we have achieved
that goal. This Nation has endured a long
strike without widespread unemployment
or drastic reductions in electric power.
Despite many predictions to the contrary,
there has been no serious violence.
The contract which was approved on
Friday upholds the important principle of
industrywide bargaining between the coal
operators and the UMW.
The Governors of the States most af-
fected by the strike have displayed great
leadership and cooperation in dealing
with its consequences.
I particularly wish to thank the people
of the affected regions. Through their
conservation efforts, coal demand was
reduced and far worse coal shortages
averted.
The work of three Federal depart-
ments also greatly aided the resolution of
this problem. The Department of Labor
and the Federal Mediation and Concilia-
tion Service were evenhanded as they
facilitated collective bargaining, and the
Department of Energy showed great in-
genuity and organization as it coordi-
nated the movement of coal to the areas
which needed it most.
However, the Government's interest in
the coal industry does not end with this
contract agreement. I will soon appoint a
Presidential Commission on the Coal In-
dustry, a panel which will address the in-
dustry's long-term problems.
Friday's agreement, coupled with the
work of this Commission, will enable the
coal industry to take its rightful place as
one of the foundations of our long-term
energy strategy.
573
