Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
3. The Department of Labor has stated
that reemployment prospects for unem-
ployed fastener workers are fair since
many of these workers are located in areas
with unemployment rates below the na-
tional average.
4. Provision of import relief would
subject U.S. jobs in other industries to
possible foreign retaliation against U.S.
exports or compensation by the United
States by lessening U.S. import restric-
tions on other products.
5. Import relief would adversely affect
U.S. international economic interests,
particularly in light of U.S. efforts to re-
duce trade barriers in the multilateral
trade negotiations.
6. The appreciation of the yen during
1977 will alleviate competitive pressures
from Japanese fastener exports to the
United States. Imports from Japan have
comprised about three-fourths of total
U.S. fastener imports in recent years.
In conjunction with my decision not to
provide import relief on fasteners, I have
directed the Secretary of the Treasury
to initiate an expedited national security
investigation, under Section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, of U.S. im-
ports of bolts, nuts, and large screws. I
am taking this action in light of a staff
study by the Federal Preparedness Agency
which indicated that domestic fastener
production capability was inadequate to
satisfy U.S. requirements in a national
emergency. This investigation will permit
assessment of U.S. national security in-
terests as they relate specifically to bolts,
nuts, and large screws; I will consider
whether to take action relating to imports
of these products following completion of
the national security investigation.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:41 p.m., February 13, 1978]
American Bolt, Nut, and Large
Screw Industry
Letter to Secretary of the Treasury
W. Michael Blumenthal. February 10, 1978
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Pursuant to Section 202(b) of the
Trade Act of 1974, I have determined
that provision of import relief on U.S.
imports of iron or steel lag screws or
bolts, bolts (except mine-roof bolts) and
bolts and their nuts in the same ship-
ment, nuts, and screws having shanks or
threads over 0.24 inch in diameter, pro-
vided for in items 646.49, 646.54, 646.56,
and 646.63 of the Tariff Schedules of the
United States (TSUS) would not be in
the national economic interest.
In conjunction with my decision not
to provide import relief to the domestic
bolt, nut, and large screw industry, I
have determined that, in light of a re-
cent Federal Preparedness Agency (FPA)
staff study which indicates that domestic
fastener production capability is not ade-
quate to satisfy wartime metal fastener
requirements,
requirements, further investigation of
U.S. national security interests as they re-
late to bolts, nuts, and large screws is war-
ranted. Accordingly, I hereby direct that
you undertake an expedited national se-
curity investigation under Section 232 of
the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19
USC 1862) pertaining to U.S. imports of
iron or steel lag screws and bolts, bolts
(except mine-roof bolts), nuts, and large
screws provided for in TSUS items
646.49, 646.54, 646.56, and 646.63.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable W. Michael Blumenthal, Sec-
retary of the Treasury, Washington, D.C.
20220]
300
