Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
Airline Regulatory Reform
Last year, I signed legislation deregu-
lating all cargo air transportation. This
I will continue to work for passage
year,
of the airline regulatory reform bill for
passengers. That bill will allow air car-
riers to compete through lower fares, new
services, and new markets, without exces-
sive government interference or disrup-
tion of service to small communities.
Trucking Regulatory Reform
Forty years of tight government con-
trols have not done enough to bring us
competitive prices, good service, and effi-
cient use of fuel. We will consider meas-
ures to bring more competition into the
motor carrier area.
Drugs
regu-
We will propose legislation to reform
regulation of the drug industry, which
will protect the consumer and make
lations fairer and less burdensome.
Regulatory Process
Early in 1978, I will issue an Executive
Order to improve the regulatory process.
This Order will require officials respon-
sible for regulations to sign them; assure
that policy-level officials are fully involved
in the process; require that regulations be
written in plain English; make it easier
for the public to participate in the proc-
ess; increase coordination between agen-
cies with overlapping responsibilities; re-
quire a closer look at the cost of regula-
tions before they are issued; and require
"sunset" reviews of existing regulations.
I have also set up an interagency com-
mittee to help regulatory agencies review
the economic effects of major regulations,
so that we can be sure that the costs of
each proposed regulation have been fully
considered. In this way we will be able
to identify the least costly means of
achieving our regulatory goals.
Paperwork Reduction
In 1977, my Administration decreased
by 12% the paperwork burden that the
Government imposes on the people. This
was done by eliminating, consolidating,
simplifying, and decreasing the frequency
of reports. That savings is the equivalent
of 50,000 full-time workers filling out
Federal forms for a full year. All depart-
ments and agencies are currently setting
goals for further substantial reductions in
1978. All reporting requirements associ-
ated with grant-in-aid programs will be
subject to "sunset" review, and ended
unless they are found nece sary. In addi-
tion, we are reviewing the recom-
mendations of the Commission on Federal
Paperwork.
LABOR LAW REFORM
Last year we proposed legislation to
reform our Nation's labor laws, in order
to streamline the conduct of elections for
employee representation and strengthen
the enforcement powers of the National
Labor Relations Board. We will work
closely with Congress to ensure early
passage of this bill, which is one of my
highest legislative goals this year.
ELECTION REFORM
Last year, I supported proposals to
make our elections fairer and more hon-
est. These included public financing of
Congressional campaigns, amendments to
the Federal Election Campaign Act and
other election reforms. The Administra-
tion will continue to support Congression-
al action on these measures.
109
