Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
the Christian Science Monitor. Do you
feel that the administration waited too
long before intervening in the coal strike?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter]
Q. On another subject-[laughter]—
recent public opinion polls-this from
Judy Woodruff of NBC-show a continu-
ing decline in the rating people give you
for your job performance as President.
How concerned are you that your ad-
ministration is perhaps developing a rep-
utation for fumbling and ineptitude be-
cause of incidents like the Marston firing
or for a failure to exert leadership be-
cause of the stalemate on the energy bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that we
have had to deal, and have decided to
deal, with some longstanding, very diffi-
cult, controversial issues that in some in-
stances had not been adequately ad-
dressed by my predecessors. I say that
without criticism.
But obviously we needed a comprehen-
sive energy policy years ago. No one has
ever proposed it to the Congress from the
White House until last April 20. This
needs to be acted upon immediately by
the Congress. The House completed its
action last August. We still have not been
able to break a deadlock in the Senate
energy committees. Hard work is going
on on that right now. It's one of the con-
tributing causes to the lowered value of
the dollar overseas. I think if we can get
a resolution of the natural gas issue alone
in the conference committees, imme-
diately there would be a restoration of
confidence in our Nation's will to act on
a difficult question and our competence
to deal with those complicated issues.
Obviously, we have addressed other
measures that are difficult as well. We've
had remarkable success, I think, in the
last year in holding down the increase in
inflation, in reducing substantially the
unemployment rate, in having a carefully
predicted increase in our gross national
product. We've got a good record on
budget preparation, cooperation with the
House and the Senate, and we have
learned in this last year.
There is some criticism that we acted
too late in the coal strike and too early
by others. My own deep commitment is
that whenever the collective bargaining
system can function, government ought
to let it function. And I think, had we
precipitously imposed our will in the coal
strike deliberations, that effort would
have been counterproductive. I don't
know what the miners will do this week-
end. I hope they'll vote affirmatively on
the negotiated settlement. But I think it
was not an exhibition of irresoluteness on
our part. It was a carefully balanced judg-
ment about what we should do.
We have addressed some questions on
the Middle East that in the past had too
long been ignored, trying to bring about
a comprehensive settlement there. This
is a very difficult, complicated issue over
which we don't have control. We have
encouraged direct negotiations with
Israel and the major Arab countries.
We've been successful in seeing that occur
because of the action by foreign leaders,
between Begin and Sadat, something that
was hoped for for generations, or at least
for decades. We've seen a recognition of
Israel's right to exist by Egypt, and prog-
ress has been made; obviously, not yet
have we been successful.
So, I think that the polls show that my
own personal popularity is very high. The
assessment of how successful our admin-
istration has been is disappointing, but it's
a partnership between us and Congress,
between us and the nations in the Middle
East, between us and the coal miners and
the coal operators. And government
doesn't have the unilateral, autocratic
control over some of these very difficult
issues.
439
