Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 17
room for bad faith in that relationship. It
requires a hospitable and a cordial atti-
tude, not only on our part but Panama's
as well.
I think all of you may have observed
yesterday a tremendous outpouring of ap-
preciation and friendship expressed by
the Panamanian people. The largest
crowd that I have ever seen came out in
a spirit of appreciation and commitment
to a good partnership in the future, based
on mutual respect, a desire for peace and
a realization that the operation of the
canal without interruption is important
not only to our two countries and our
people but to the rest of the world. We
know that Panama will show strict regard
for all its responsibilities toward you.
We've also tried to carry out our ob-
ligation to you by ensuring that the terms
and conditions of your employment will
generally stay the same when the treaty
goes into effect. We know that the cir-
cumstances under which you work matter
a great deal, as do good schools, medical
care, and other services. These have not
been neglected in the long negotiations
over the last 14 years.
According to the treaties, the canal will
increasingly be a place of Panamanian
employment. Some of you might leave
very soon; others will remain for many,
many years. I'm relying on all of you to
help make this transition as smooth as
possible. That is your duty, your respon-
sibility, and the people of both nations
expect nothing less. You've never disap-
pointed our country in the past; I'm sure
you will not do so in the future.
We are trying and we hope that you
will help us to succeed to bring about a
successful new chapter in the history of
the canal that you've managed and cared
for so long. You've brought credit to your-
selves and to your country by operating
the canal efficiently, honestly, and honor-
ably for the benefit of all nations.
The time when this was America's job
alone is now coming to an end. The trea-
ties reflect that time, and in so doing, they
help guarantee that the rest of the world
will recognize our essential fairness and
decency as a people.
The future of this waterway will de-
pend upon the cooperation and the un-
derstanding of both Panamanians and
Americans. I know that some day we will
join in looking back with admiration and
respect at the dedication and devotion of
the thousands of employees, American
and Panamanian, who made and con-
tinue to make the canal one of the su-
preme human achievements of all time.
That's part of the history of our great
country. That's part of the future of our
great country. In this time of change,
as President of the United States, you can
consider me to be a partner of yours.
I've instructed all the officials, both
military and civilian, in this Canal Zone
to contact me directly to alleviate any con-
cerns, any maladministration, any differ-
ences between ourselves and the people
of Panama as these changing times ap-
proach.
And to close my statements to you,
I'd like to repeat again that as the
leader of our great Nation, the greatest
on Earth, I'm proud of what you have
done in the past, what you are doing
today. And I have complete confidence.
that you will continue to represent our
Nation in the finest spirit of dedication,
of competence, and of good will in the
years to come.
Thank you everyone. God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. at
Jarman Field.
Following his remarks, the President went to
the Miraflores Locks, where he operated the
controls which allowed the passage of the con-
tainer ship American Apollo to pass through
the locks. He then went to a picnic site over-
looking the locks, where he had a working
luncheon with approximately 2 dozen residents
of the Canal Zone.
1127
