Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dent, the members of the Cabinet, all
those who serve with us, and, I think,
in particular, me, I pledge to Judge Web-
ster my absolute and total confidence, my
deepest political and personal commit-
ment to cooperate with him as full part-
ners in preserving the standards which
have, through the ages, made our Nation
so great.
It's a partnership that I feel is of superb
importance to our country. And I'm very
proud to have a man like Judge Webster
who has undertaken to even enhance the
tremendous public record and the tremen-
dous reputation of one of the finest or-
ganizations in Government and, certainly,
the finest law enforcement agency in the
world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:52 p.m. in
the auditorium of the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I.
Building. Prior to his remarks, Chief Justice of
the United States Warren E. Burger adminis-
tered the oath of office to Judge Webster.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Enforcement
Remarks Announcing Reorganization Plan No.
1 of 1978. February 23, 1978
know how broad is the interest and sup-
port for the action that we will introduce
this afternoon: the Urban League, the
National Urban Coalition, the NAACP,
the Leadership Conference on Civil
Rights, the National Organization of
Women, the American GI Forum, the
Mexican-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, the American Associa-
tion of Retired Persons, the American
Federation of Government Employees, the
National Federation of Federal Em-
ployees, the National Association of Gov-
ernment Employees, the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States, the Busi-
ness Roundtable, the National Association
of Manufacturers, the National Gover-
nors' Conference; representatives from
other groups like the United Automobile
Workers; major corporations, NBC, Gen-
eral Motors. And we are particularly
honored to have with us two women who
represent leaders who were the great and
courageous innovators in equality of op-
portunity and civil rights in our country,
Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr., on my left,
and Mrs. Lynda Robb, the daughter of
President Lyndon Johnson.
I welcome all of you to the White
House to join with me in taking an im-
portant step toward a more competent
Government and toward a more just
We are assembled here today in the society. We are here today to announce
East Room of the White House on what
is truly an historic occasion. It's a great
honor for me to stand on the plat-
form with these distinguished men and
women-Members of the Congress, in
particular, who have joined with me in a
partnership, continuing past actions of
officials of our Government to make our
country a fairer and a more enjoyable
and productive place to live.
We have with us officials of a wide
range of organizations, some of which I
would just like to mention so that you'll
a comprehensive series of measures to
consolidate and to streamline the enforce-
laws in our country.
ment of equal employment opportunity
I believe that this is the single most
important action to improve civil rights
in the last decade. Many of you in this
room have participated in the struggle
to make human rights a richer and a
fuller reality in our country. You have
led and represented different groups,
fought different obstacles, but your com-
mitments have been and are today the
same. You've seen the evils of discrimina-
398
