May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
National Transportation Policy
Study Commission
Appointment of William H. Tucker as a
Member. May 18, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of William H. Tucker, of
Boston, Mass., as a member of the Na-
tional Transportation Policy Study Com-
mission.
Tucker, 54, is an attorney in Boston.
He is a former Chairman of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission and has
also served as vice president in charge
of Penn Central's Residual Rail Asset
Department.
Counsellor to the President
on Aging
Announcement Issued Following a Meeting
With the Ad Hoc Leadership Council of
Aging Organizations. May 18, 1978
In his meeting with the Ad Hoc
Leadership Council of Aging Organiza-
tions today, the President outlined the
will be reminded of the impact that pro-
posed solutions will have on the lives of
older persons.
-To have placed before him pro-
posals designed to make it possible for
him to make the maximum possible con-
tribution to coordinating programs in the
executive branch that have an impact on
the lives of older persons.
-To have a personal representative
who can present his views on issues in the
field of aging to the departments and
agencies of the executive branch, to the
Members of Congress, and to representa-
tives of organizations in both the public
and private sectors.
The President also noted that he has
designated the Counsellor as Chairman
of the Federal Council on the Aging. Put-
ting these two functions in the hands of
one person will make it possible for the
Counsellor to present to the President
a broad consensus of views in the field
of aging that are represented by the
membership of the Federal Council on
the Aging.
following points about his objectives in Security Assistance to Zaire
establishing the position of Counsellor to
the President on Aging:
-To ensure that he will have placed
before him proposed initiatives in the
field of aging designed not only to meet
the needs of older persons but also to make
it possible for the Nation to benefit from
the unique contributions that older per-
sons can make to the strengthening of our
Nation by opening up opportunities for
their continued involvement in the life
of our day.
-To ensure that whenever policy is-
sues are presented to him in such areas as
social security, employment, housing,
health, transportation, and welfare, he
Memorandum From the President.
May 18, 1978
Presidential Determination No. 78-11
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
by Section 25 of the International Secu-
rity Assistance Act of 1977, I hereby de-
termine that:
(a) The furnishing to Zaire of not to
exceed $2,500,000 in international mili-
tary education and training for the fiscal
year 1978 under chapter 5 of part II of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the
extension to and utilization by Zaire of
not to exceed $17,500,000 for the fiscal
930
