Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Small Business Week, 1978
Proclamation 4553. March 16, 1978
World Trade Week, 1978
Proclamation 4554. March 16, 1978
By the President of the United States By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Small business has been the economic
backbone of American life since the ear-
liest colonial days. Traders, craftsmen and
merchants spurred the economy and
played a vital role in the Nation's west-
ward movement and growth. They helped
create the multitude of opportunities that
distinguish our free enterprise system—
the system which has made American
progress the envy of the world.
Of the 14 million businesses in the
United States today, more than 13 million
of them are small, including some three
million farms. Together, they provide em-
ployment for over half the business labor
force and account for more than 48 per-
cent of the gross business product. Amer-
ica's prestige in the world today could
never have been achieved without this
outstanding productivity.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week beginning
April 30, 1978, as Small Business Week,
and I urgently call on every American to
join me in this very special tribute.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:44 p.m., March 16, 1978]
of America
A Proclamation
From the days of its founding, the
United States has always been a trading
nation. Commercial relations with the rest
of the world enabled our country to de-
velop, prosper, and grow strong. Today,
more than ever, international trade is es-
sential to our national well-being.
For the American consumer, expanded
trade means broader choices in the mar-
ketplace. For American business, it means
more opportunities to sell the products of
American ingenuity in the world's mar-
kets. For the American worker, it means
more jobs at home.
International trade encourages the ex-
change of ideas as well as knowledge and
experience among nations. It helps make
better use of global resources and nurtures
trust among the world's nations.
The United States is firmly committed
to fair and open trade. To that end, we
and our trading partners are pledged to
eliminate impediments to trade, bring
about sound and liberal trade rules, and
keep the world's economy moving ahead.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States, do hereby
proclaim the week beginning May 21,
1978, as World Trade Week, and I urge
that all the people of the United States
participate during this week in activities
that will promote continuing awareness of
the importance of world trade to our
Nation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
514
