Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And, most of all, I was proud as an
American at the warmth of our reception.
I think the day of the so-called ugly
American is over. I never saw, among
the hundreds of thousands of people who
welcomed us, a single gesture or sign or
poster or indication of anything except
friendship. This is quite different from
what it has been in the past. The friendly
crowds that greeted us everywhere
showed an affection for the United States,
based not so much on our country's power
or even our accomplishments but on what
we stand for in the world.
At every stop in this journey I said to
the people there that I was coming to
greet a great nation, which was true. But
nothing makes me prouder than the truly
great Nation it is my privilege to
represent.
Thank you very much. It's good to be
home.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:40 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
National Advisory Committee
for Women
Executive Order 12050. April 4, 1978
ESTABLISHING A NATIONAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE FOR WOMEN
By virtue of my authority as President
of the United States of America, and in
order to promote equality for women in
the cultural, social, economic and politi-
cal life of this Nation, it is hereby ordered
as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of a Na-
tional Advisory Committee for Women.
There is established a National Advisory
Committee for Women (hereafter the
Committee).
SEC. 2. Membership. The President
shall appoint not more than thirty indi-
viduals to serve on the Committee and
shall designate one member to chair the
Committee.
SEC. 3. Responsibilities of the Commit-
tee. (a) The Committee shall advise the
President on a regular basis of initiatives
needed to promote full equality for
American women.
(b) The Committee shall assist in re-
viewing the applicability of such initia-
tives, including recommendations of the
1977 National Women's Conference, to
particular programs and policies.
(c) The Committee shall promote
the national observance of the United
Nations Decade for Women, Equality,
Development and Peace (1975-1985).
(d) The Committee shall gather and
disseminate information relating to its
responsibilities.
(e) The Committee shall consult reg-
ularly with the Interdepartmental Task
Force established in Section 6.
SEC. 4. Committee Procedures. (a)
The Committee may establish, within the
limits of available funds, such working
groups as may be necessary to fulfill its
tasks. The membership of such groups
may include persons not members of the
Committee.
(b) The Committee shall establish
such procedural regulations as are neces-
sary to carry out its responsibilities.
(c) The Committee shall conclude its
work by March 1, 1980, and shall make a
final report to the President.
SEC. 5. Assistance and Cooperation.
The Committee may request any agency
of the Executive Branch of the govern-
ment to furnish it with such information,
advice, funds and services as may be use-
ful for the fulfillment of the Committee's
functions under this Order. Such agencies
680
