Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 26
-consolidation of more than 30 high-
way and public transportation grant
programs into fewer and more flexi-
ble programs for both rural and
urban areas;
-a uniform Federal share for all grant
programs except Interstate construc-
tion and Interstate transfer projects;
-focusing the transit discretionary
program on major investments;
—an expanded bridge replacement and
rehabilitation program;
-a unified safety program; and
-greater flexibility for State and local
governments to pursue their own
priorities.
To achieve our objectives in this area,
we propose a reorganization of a variety
of highway and transit programs into a
simpler and more manageable system of
Federal assistance. Certain aspects of our
new approach to these programs should
be emphasized.
Transportation Planning
To promote more efficient short-range
and long-range planning by state and
local officials, I propose to consolidate
highway and transit planning funds and
to distribute these funds as a single grant,
under a formula to be determined by the
Secretary of Transportation.
Planning grants will be made directly to
designated metropolitan planning orga-
nizations in urbanized areas over one
million in population. The Secretary will
review transportation plans for such areas
to ensure that they take reasonable ac-
count of such issues as air quality, energy
conservation, environmental quality, ac-
cessibility to employment, effect on mi-
norities, housing, land use and future de-
velopment. The planning process for
other areas will be strengthened as well.
Interstate System
Our first priority will be to complete
the essential gaps in the Interstate System.
Fifty percent of the apportionment for-
mula will be based on the cost to complete
the essential gaps and fifty percent on the
cost to complete the total system. High-
way projects substituted after an Inter-
state withdrawal will be funded from a
state's Interstate apportionment, and sub-
stitute mass transit projects will be funded
from the General Fund. Interstate substi-
tute projects, both highway and transit,
will be eligible for a ninety percent fed-
eral share.
States will be required to have com-
pleted the Environmental Impact State-
ment process or to have submitted an
application for an Interstate withdrawal
on all uncompleted segments of the Inter-
state by September 30, 1982. Segments
which have not met either requirement
will be removed from the system. All in-
complete Interstate segments must be
under contract for construction and ini-
tial construction must have commenced
by September 30, 1986.
Federal-Aid Primary System
To simplify an unduly restrictive fund-
ing structure, seven highway categories
will be consolidated into a single Primary
program. Funds will be apportioned by a
formula specified in the legislation and
the Federal share will be eighty percent.
Up to fifty percent of a state's primary
system funds may be transferred to the
urban highway or the small urban and
rural transportation programs.
Urban Formula Grants
tablished, one for highways, and one for
Two compatible programs will be es-
transit, for all urbanized areas with a pop-
ulation of 50,000 or more. The highway
program will consolidate five categorical
programs, and all urban roads not on the
Interstate or primary systems will be eli-
gible for assistance. The transit program
will provide assistance for the acquisition,
construction and improvement of facilities
221
