Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Disarmament and affirmed their mutual
desire that the Special Session lead to
positive steps towards a reduction and
eventual elimination of armaments and
the alleviation of international tensions.
Drawing on their deep common herit-
age of respect for the Rule of Law and
their determination to improve the con-
ditions of life of their peoples, both Presi-
dents reaffirmed and agreed that the
progress of mankind will be measured in
large part by advances made in guaran-
teeing and assuring the political, eco-
nomic and social rights of all peoples.
President Carter emphasized the funda-
mental commitment of his country to the
promotion of human rights and demo-
cratic freedoms as basic to the process of
building a more just world, and stated
that the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the OAS Charter provide a
framework for international concern in
this area. In this regard President Geisel
recalled that international cooperation for
the affirmation of human rights, in all
their aspects, is one of the noblest tasks
of the United Nations. He stressed the
preoccupation of the Brazilian Govern-
ment with the observance of human rights
and noted the essential role of economic,
social and political development in at-
taining progress in this area.
President Carter reviewed the global
scope of the non-proliferation policy of
the United States, illustrated the practical
implementation of this policy within the
United States itself, and described the on-
going efforts of his Administration to pre-
vent both vertical and horizontal prolifer-
ation on a worldwide basis. He empha-
sized that U.S. policy is designed to curb
the spread of nuclear weapons, while
encouraging international cooperation in
the development of the peaceful uses of
atomic energy. President Geisel noted
Brazil's equal concern for non-prolifera-
tion of nuclear weapons, both vertical and
horizontal. In this connection, he stressed
that Brazil strongly supports international
efforts towards disarmament; that Brazil's
nuclear program has strictly peaceful ob-
jectives and is designed to meet her energy
needs; and that Brazil favors the adop-
tion of the IAEA's international non-dis-
criminatory safeguards.
The two Presidents reviewed the con-
ditions and prospects of the world econ-
omy. They discussed the critical relation-
ship of developments in the U.S. economy
to global stability and growth, and ex-
amined Brazil's rapidly expanding role
within the global economic system. Both
Presidents stressed that it is important that
the industrialized countries as a group
pursue appropriate policies to ensure the
resumption of more rapid worldwide eco-
nomic growth, which also requires appro-
priate policies in the developing countries
to maintain healthy economies. They wel-
comed the decision of OPEC taken in
Caracas in December to maintain the pre-
vailing level of petroleum prices.
President Carter emphasized his Ad-
ministration's commitment to freer trade.
President Geisel stressed the importance
of export growth to Brazilian develop-
ment. In this connection, both Presidents
emphasized their resolve to work toward
a more open and fair global trading sys-
tem, to fight protectionism and to cooper-
ate in bringing the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations to a successful conclusion.
The two Presidents agreed that the major
contributions in this field should be made
by the developed countries. President
Carter emphasized the determination of
the United States to negotiate special
and differential treatment for developing
countries, where feasible and appropriate.
He also noted the desirability of contribu-
tions by the developing countries toward
trade liberalization. President Geisel ex-
pressed Brazil's readiness to contribute,
together with other countries, to the lib-
638
