Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
review the economic effects of major reg-
ulations. This committee will seek to as-
sure that the costs of each regulation have
been fully considered, and that all alter-
natives have been explored, so that we
may find and apply the least costly means
of achieving our regulatory objectives. I
have also directed my advisers to explore
ways in which we can undertake an as-
sessment of the impact of regulation on
the economy as a whole and within each
major sector. We need to find a way to
set priorities among regulatory objectives
and understand more fully the combined
effects of our regulatory actions on the
private economy.
Where regulation of economic activity
has become outmoded and substantial
overhaul is called for, I will pursue ef-
fective legislation. For example, I have
supported actively congressional efforts to
reform regulation of the airline industry,
and I am considering proposals to re-
form the regulation of other industries.
I have given special attention to re-
ducing the runaway cost of health care.
The cost of a day in the hospital has more
than doubled since 1970. Continuing
escalation in the charges for hospital care
can no longer be tolerated. I have sub-
mitted legislation, the Hospital Cost
Containment Act of 1977, that would
limit sharply the rate of growth in hos-
pital spending, and I urge the Congress
to enact this legislation in 1978.
The States can also play a role in
moderating the current inflation. In 1976,
State governments collected $50 billion in
sales taxes. For the most part, these taxes
enter directly into the cost of goods we
buy and thus increase the price level. To-
day, State governments with significant
surpluses are considering tax reductions.
I urge those in a position to do so to con-
sider the advantages to the national
economy of reducing sales taxes, thereby
helping to slow inflation.
Government alone cannot unwind the
current inflation, however. Today's infla-
tionary process is largely the consequence
of self-fulfilling expectations. Businessmen,
expecting inflation to continue, are less
resistant to cost increases than they might
be, since they have come to believe that,
with all prices rising, their own increased
costs can be passed on to consumers
through higher prices. Wage increases are
based on the expectation that prices will
continue to rise. Wage gains in one sector
spur similar demands in others.
There are gainers and losers in this
process, since some groups in the economy
are more successful than others at defend-
ing themselves against inflation. On the
whole, however, the main result is con-
tinued inflation. No one group-neither
business, nor labor, nor government—can
stop this spiral on its own. What is needed
is a joint effort.
Since the current inflation has devel-
oped strong momentum, it cannot be
brought to a sudden halt. But we can
achieve a gradual but sustained decelera-
tion-having each succeeding year's in-
flation lower than the previous one. The
benefits of slower growth of prices and
wages would be broadly shared. Everyone
would be better off. A conscious effort
should be made by those who make wage
and price decisions to take the individual
actions necessary to bring about an
economy-wide deceleration of inflation.
I am therefore asking the business
community and American workers to par-
ticipate in a voluntary program to de-
celerate the rate of price and wage
increase. This program is based on the
initial presumption that prices and wages
in each industry should rise significantly
141
