Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 22
training and other placement opportuni-
ties with private firms for young workers
and other participants in the CETA
system.
The CETA legislation that I am pre-
senting today provides Congress with a
plan for a rational, efficient and targeted
structural and countercyclical employ-
ment program.
We need an employment and training
system which is administratively clear,
that helps those most in need, that creates
needed jobs and provides maximum op-
portunity for cooperation between the
public and private sectors. To reach the
goal of full employment, and price sta-
bility which we have set in the Hum-
phrey-Hawkins bill, we must make these
programs work. The legislation I am
sending to Congress today can provide a
framework within which we can all work
together to achieve that commitment.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 22, 1978.
Dinner for Retiring Members
of Congress
Remarks at the White House Dinner.
February 22, 1978
I hope I didn't interrupt anyone's meal.
I presume you're through by now.
First of all, I'd like to say that Rosalynn
and I are deeply honored and very
pleased to have all of you here this eve-
ning in a religious time of our year. Of all
the folks in Washington, I know you gave
up more for Lent than anyone else—
[laughter]—your seat in the House and
Senate. But the country's given up even
more by being deprived of your service in
the future.
Frank Moore figured out today that the
cumulative experience represented among
the Members of Congress here tonight is
more than 400 years. And we still haven't
been able to get an energy bill through.
[Laughter]
I know that all of you now are think-
ing about what you'll do after you leave
the Congress this next January. If you
haven't chosen a second career yet, I wish
that some of you would consider mining
coal. [Laughter] It would be a lot of help
to us here. We have made some progress
today. And I hope that the miners and
coal operators will get together perhaps
without too much delay.
I have a few comments to make. I was
a little bit hesitant to get up here. I no-
ticed in the paper when Congressman
Otis Pike was asked why he was leaving
the Congress, he said he was tired of wast-
ing his time listening to drivel. [Laughter]
I hope that Congressman Pike will excuse
me just for a few minutes this evening.
[Laughter]
We have represented here tonight al-
most every committee of Congress. We
have some of the most powerful and in-
fluential Members who have ever served
in Washington, the chairman of the
House Appropriations Committee, the
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, and others. And we have the
two most senior Members of Congress who
will be retiring at the end of this year,
men who have been here since-for more
than 40 years. In fact, we have three at
my table, who have each served more than
four decades.
We have the only two Members of
Congress, I think, here tonight, who were
born before this century. We've got a for-
mer Governor, Dewey Bartlett. We've got
a former candidate for Vice President,
who's a fine and wonderful gentleman.
We have also some men who have
shown a great deal of courage. John Moss,
whose service in the Congress I deeply ad-
mire, was one of the first men who ever
brought to the forefront of our Nation's
393
