Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
maintenance of an effective earthquake
hazards reduction program." I am trans-
mitting today a plan for a National
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Pro-
gram. This program is designed to meet
the objectives of the important legisla-
tion you have passed. It deals with: pre-
dicting and preparing for earthquakes;
ways in which government, industry, and
the public can apply knowledge of seis-
mic risk when making land-use deci-
sions; and achieving earthquake-resist-
ant design and construction.
As this program emphasizes, the Fed-
eral Government must set a strong ex-
ample in developing guidelines and
standards for its own facilities. But Fed-
eral effort alone is not enough; to succeed
in this effort, we must have the coopera-
tive efforts of State and local govern-
ments, industry and business, professional
and volunteer organizations, and the
public.
The White House,
June 22, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 30-page report is entitled "The
National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Pro-
gram."
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Progress Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
June 23, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104, this
report describes the progress that has been
made during the past sixty days towards a
negotiated settlement on Cyprus.
On April 13 representatives of the
Turkish Cypriot community presented to
U.N. Secretary General Waldheim a de-
scription of the proposals that they intend
to put on the table once the Cyprus inter-
communal talks, in recess since April 1977,
are reconvened. After examining these
proposals, the Secretary General issued
a public statement characterizing them as
"concrete and substantial" yet cautioning
at the same time that he had reached no
judgment on their merits. On April 19 the
Secretary General travelled to Nicosia,
where he explained the new Turkish
Cypriot proposals to the Government of
Cyprus. Later that day President Kypria-
nou declared to a press conference that
the proposals were "entirely inadmissible"
and totally inadequate as a basis for re-
suming intercommunal negotiations. At
the same time, however, he did not com-
pletely close the door to a new round of
talks.
These new Turkish Cypriot proposals
represent a limited advance over the posi-
tions that the Turkish Cypriots have as-
sumed in previous negotiating sessions.
Reflecting earlier ideas, the new constitu-
tional proposal stresses substantial self-
government for each of the two zones and
the concept of equality of representation
for the two communities in the future cen-
tral government of Cyprus. Yet it is sub-
stantially more developed and detailed
than the brief and sketchy paper tabled
by the Turkish Cypriot representative at
the last round of talks in Vienna in April
1977. Our understanding, moreover, is
that the Turkish Cypriots have in fact
prepared an entire draft constitution for
consideration once negotiations com-
mence. As far as the territorial issue is
concerned, the Turkish Cypriots have des-
ignated six general areas in the vicinity of
the present demarcation line whose trans-
fer to Greek administration they would be
prepared to negotiate, and they have not
ruled out discussing other areas that the
Greek Cypriots may wish to raise. The
Turkish Cypriots refrained from specify-
1151
