June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
COMMUNITY SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
Q. Mr. President, the head of the Com-
munity Services Administration testified
yesterday in Federal court that some of
your top aides, including Frank Moore,
asked the CSA to cut off funds to the
Zavala County Economic Development
Corporation. Why did your administra-
tion want to cut off funds to this Texas-
Mexican American group?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there has
been-I don't know many details about
the proposal, but I do know that the Gov-
ernor of Texas had complained earlier
about the way the funds were managed,
and this question was raised with the
CSA. Later after the CSA, following an
investigation, decided that some of the
funding should be either cut back or ter-
minated unless the management was im-
proved, the people involved in the Zavala
County effort tried to get the Federal
Government to reverse its decision.
When that request was refused, the
Zavala County officials went to court. A
decision was made by Grace Olivarez, the
Administrator of CSA, that the Federal
Government position was the proper one.
And we are prepared to go to court and to
have the full information revealed to the
court, and let the court decide whether it
should be administered or not.
Q. I would like to follow that up.
THE PRESIDENT. Please do.
Q. Why did you claim executive priv-
ilege on the nine memos regarding that,
from various aides to you and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think as a gen-
eral rule, when I have a wide range of
advice coming to me following the com-
plaint of a mayor or a Governor or a State
legislator or some other responsible offi-
cial, when some of the complaints are
based on hearsay or allegations or person-
alities or specific criticisms of the qualifi-
cations of administering officials, it would
not be appropriate to reveal all those
memos to the public.
This is something that's been honored
for generations in our Government. And
I think that if there was a possibility that
those kind of confidential memoranda
would later be made public, when they
have to be very frank and open and free
expressions of even contradictory views,
there would be a tight reluctance on the
part of my subordinates to give me free
advice, because they would have to assess
every document presented to me or every
expression of opinion to see whether or
not it could stand up to scrutiny later on
for public analysis maybe 2 years later.
So, I think the confidential privilege of
having my own subordinates give me free
advice without their memoranda being
revealed to the public is something that
I would have to preserve.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
CUBAN AND SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN
AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, other than being crit-
ical of the Cubans and the Russians for
their involvement in Africa, what can this
Government do specifically to discourage
any further involvement in the future?
And specifically, have you made a decision
about any possible retaliatory action
against the Cubans, in the way of trade
or travel restrictions, or against the Soviet
Union because of the recent activities in
Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't contem-
plate any retaliatory action. As you know,
we have a trade embargo against Cuba at
this time, and we do not have diplomatic
relations with Cuba. We do have a rep-
resentative in Washington and in Havana
that provides us communication service,
if nothing else.
We are doing the best we can to ac-
quaint the world with the hazards and the
consequences of increasing involvement of
the Soviets and the Cubans in Africa. I
think it's accurate to say that they take
advantage of local disturbances and move
1094
