Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
The two Presidents reviewed recent
developments and pledged renewed ef-
forts to lower the barriers to understand-
ing and contact between all peoples of
Europe, in accordance with their com-
mon aspirations. In this regard, they dis-
cussed the results of the Belgrade Con-
ference and agreed that it has signifi-
cantly strengthened the foundations for
the continuation of multilateral efforts to
increase security and cooperation in
Europe. They reaffirmed their commit-
ment to the success of the CSCE process
and to full implementation of all sections
of the Final Act. They urged all signatory
states to join in efforts to achieve full im-
plementation in order to further the
process of consultation and contact be-
tween the participating countries and to
promote mutual understanding. They
pledged continued efforts toward these
goals in the period leading to the next
Conference in Madrid in 1980.
Presidents Tito and Carter expressed
their special concern about the situation
in the Middle East which remains a
source of great tension in international
affairs. They agreed on the urgent need
to find a comprehensive, just and lasting
solution to the problems of the Middle
East and explained in detail their respec-
tive views on the current situation.
The two Presidents also agreed that
the Ethiopia-Somalia conflict should be
resolved by peaceful means, taking ac-
count of the need to respect both terri-
torial integrity and the legitimate aspira-
tions of the peoples of both countries,
and in conformity with the principles of
the Charter of the Organization of Afri-
can Unity and the Charter of the United
Nations. They expressed their belief that
the international community should exert
greater efforts for securing conditions to
maintain the territorial integrity, inde-
pendence and nonaligned position of
these two countries.
In their discussion of developments in
Southern Africa, the two Presidents ex-
pressed support for the legitimate aspira-
tions of the African peoples to self-deter-
mination and majority rule. They con-
demned racism in all forms.
The two Presidents discussed a variety
of aspects of human rights in the contem-
porary world and agreed that efforts to-
ward the implementation of human rights
in all countries should be in accord with
the provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations, the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights and the Helsinki
Final Act.
Presidents Carter and Tito reviewed
the international economic situation with
particular attention. While approaching
global economic problems from different
perspectives, they recognized their grav-
ity and stressed the need for necessary
changes in world economic relations
which take into account the interests and
equality of all countries. They noted in
particular the importance of increased
support for accelerated economic devel-
opment for the developing countries and
a broader linkage between the economies
of the industrialized and developing
countries. They emphasized the signifi-
cance of the global economic dialogue as
a vital element in fostering cooperation
between the industrialized and develop-
ing countries, which is an indispensable
precondition for the settlement of exist-
ing economic problems.
The two Presidents voiced their deep
concern over the continuation of the
arms race, which renders difficult the
solution of substantial political, economic,
and other problems besetting mankind
today. Both governments believe that
durable peace in the world as a whole
can only be assured if effective measures
are undertaken to halt the arms race and
to take concrete steps for nuclear dis-
armament toward the ultimate goal of
487
