Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 6
-short-term measures to meet imme-
diate military problems;
-a long-term defense program, sur-
veying NATO's requirements in 10
specific areas;
-an East-West study to gain better
understanding of trends in Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union, an
overall assesment of Warsaw Pact
power, and the implications for the
NATO alliance; and
-intensified effort to improve coop-
eration in defense procurement.
We have already taken major steps in
all four areas. I was pleased by reports of
the recent ministerial meeting of the De-
fense Planning Committee and the North
Atlantic Council, and I look forward to
the transatlantic dialog on defense trade
that the Independent European Program
Group has proposed.
Together, we are setting the NATO
alliance on a course that will reaffirm
our shared commitment to peace, to a
strong and vital alliance, and to meeting
any challenge to our strength and cohe-
sion in the years ahead.
The leaders of the alliance will have
the opportunity to review the results of
our efforts in a summit-level NATO con-
ference this spring. I am happy to renew
my invitation to the alliance to hold that
meeting in Washington on May 30 and
31.
The defense budget that I will be sub-
mitting to the Congress later this month
will provide for real increases in United
States defense spending, more than com-
pensating for the effects of inflation. Even
more important, a major part of this ef-
fort will respond directly to our objectives
in the long-term defense program, and
will improve the United States military
commitment to the alliance.
The number of United States soldiers
in Europe will increase by more than
8,000 in the next year and a half, and we
will substantially improve our reinforce-
ment capability.
We have made these efforts in the name
of the alliance. We hope that with a far-
reaching, realistic, long-term defense pro-
gram, the alliance as a whole will match
or exceed the improvements which we
ourselves are now undertaking.
The United States will continue to
maintain-undiminished-its firm com-
mitment to NATO and will continue to
provide the forces needed to back up that
commitment.
We will continue to subscribe to the
doctrine, strategy, and policies of the alli-
ance, including forward defense and flex-
ible response.
We will work with you to maintain de-
terrence across the entire spectrum of
strategic, theater nuclear, and conven-
tional forces, so that the Warsaw Pact
states will know that all of us are united
in commitment to defense of all the terri-
tories of NATO members.
There will be no flagging of American
will or ability to meet all of our NATO
commitments, which have the firm sup-
port of the American people.
There are other responsibilities facing
the alliance.
We have set an excellent record of con-
sulting with one another on a wide range
of issues. That can and should continue,
and the United States will increasingly
draw the NATO allies into its counsels.
As SALT II proceeds towards an
agreement, which we hope will come
soon, we will intensify our consultations
with all of you, recognizing that the
Council is the focus of our deliberations.
As we move beyond SALT II, we will
undertake broad discussions here on all
allied security issues.
We must approach these issues to-
gether, as an alliance, and judge each
37
