Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and unemployment out of all proportion
to their percentage of the national
population.
We have increased greatly the eco-
nomic benefits, at least the job oppor-
tunities of minority groups since I've been
in office, not only in the appointments
that I've made to major leaders for posi-
tions of executive authority but in other
ways.
For instance, we set as a goal for the
first year of our administration to have
more than $100 million in Federal de-
posits in black-owned banks, minority-
owned banks. We've reached that goal.
The Congress passed legislation requiring
that in the public works program, a $4
billion program, that 10 percent of this
money be spent with businesses owned
by minority stockholders as a dominant
stockholding group. That goal has been
exceeded.
We have now proposed to the Con-
gress—and I predict immediate passage,
no delay—a complete reorganization of
the equal employment opportunity func-
tions within the Federal Government. We
are struggling to bring up the unemploy-
ment [employment] rate among minority
citizens. And I think that in the housing
area, in our urban policy program that
we just put forward, all these things have
been done.
So, to measure my own effectiveness as
a leader in this respect is something that
I am not able to do. I don't think we've
achieved notable success as yet. But I
think I, combining my voice with con-
gressional leaders, those in private busi-
ness, the minority organization leaders
who are very evocative and very effec-
tive, the sum total of that, plus, obviously,
editorial support from all of you, can
make a difference.
My own belief is that minority groups
have prospered in this country the last 10
years, compared to their previous circum-
stances. But they have a long way to go,
and I feel responsible to make sure that
they go that long way toward equality of
opportunity in our country.
U.S.-CHINESE RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Bud Smyser from
the Honolulu Star-Bulletin. I would like
to ask about your China policy and about
Taiwan in particular.
The present Peking Government says
that it will not use force in the near term
to settle the Taiwan question, but it will
not rule out the use of force for the in-
definite future. Does this reservation by
Peking pose an insurmountable obstacle
to our full diplomatic recognition of
Peking?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not acknowl-
edge any insurmountable obstacle in
reaching the goals expressed in the
Shanghai Communique, which is binding
on us—and which I fully support—and
binding on the People's Republic of
China leaders. We recognize the concept
that is shared in Taiwan and on the
Mainland that there's only one China.
We recognize that it's for the best in-
terests of our own Nation to have full
diplomatic relationships with China. And
my hope is that over a period of months-
we are not in any big hurry; neither are
the People's Republic of China leaders—
that we will completely realize the hopes
expressed in the Shanghai Communique.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, Al Fitzpatrick from
the Beacon Journal in Akron, Ohio. You
mentioned in your speech that conserving
energy and that we all ought to conserve
energy. I think many people have done
just that. But how does one justify saving
energy when those monthly utility bills
continue to rise?
732
