Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
Counsel with responsibility for agencies
within the Intelligence Community shall:
3–201. Transmit timely reports to the
IOB concerning any intelligence activi-
ties that come to their attention and that
raise questions of legality or propriety;
3-202. Promptly report to the IOB ac-
tions taken concerning the Board's find-
ings on intelligence activities that raise
questions of legality or propriety;
3-203. Provide to the IOB information
requested concerning the legality or pro-
priety of intelligence activities within their
respective agencies;
3-204. Formulate practices and pro-
cedures for discovering and reporting to
the IOB intelligence activities that raise
questions of legality or propriety; and
3–205. Report to the IOB any occasion
on which the Inspectors General or Gen-
eral Counsel were directed not to report
any intelligence activity to the IOB which
they believed raised questions of legality
or propriety.
and ensure that any intelligence activity
within the United States or directed
against any United States person is con-
ducted by the least intrusive means pos-
sible. The procedures shall also ensure
that any use, dissemination and storage of
information about United States persons
acquired through intelligence activities is
limited to that necessary to achieve lawful
governmental purposes.
3-4. Congressional Intelligence Commit-
tees. Under such procedures as the Presi-
dent may establish and consistent with
applicable authorities and duties, includ-
ing those conferred by the Constitution
upon the Executive and Legislative
Branches and by law to protect sources
and methods, the Director of Central In-
telligence and heads of departments and
agencies of the United States involved in
intelligence activities shall:
3-401. Keep the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House
of Representatives and the Select Com-
3-3. Attorney General. The Attorney mittee on Intelligence of the Senate fully
General shall:
3-301. Receive and consider reports
from agencies within the Intelligence
Community forwarded by the IOB;
3-302. Report to the President in a
timely fashion any intelligence activities
which raise questions of legality;
3-303. Report to the IOB and to the
President in a timely fashion decisions
made or actions taken in response to re-
ports from agencies within the Intelli-
gence Community forwarded to the At-
torney General by the IOB;
3-304. Inform the IOB of legal opin-
ions affecting the operations of the In-
telligence Community; and
3–305. Establish or approve procedures,
as required by this Order, for the con-
duct of intelligence activities. Such pro-
cedures shall ensure compliance with law,
protect constitutional rights and privacy,
and currently informed concerning intel-
ligence activities, including any signifi-
cant anticipated activities which are the
responsibility of, or engaged in, by such
department or agency. This requirement
does not constitute a condition precedent
to the implementation of such intelligence
activities;
3-402. Provide any information or
document in the possession, custody, or
control of the department or agency or
person paid by such department or agency,
within the jurisdiction of the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives or the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate,
upon the request of such committee; and
3-403. Report in a timely fashion to
the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence of the House of Representatives
and the Select Committee on Intelligence
211
