Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that will lead to a stable, dynamic, and
elected democratic political system where
the weak and the strong will equally feel
secure and protected.
On the economic front, our program is
designed not only to provide a firm and
strong industrial base but also to pro-
gressively gain control of the commanding
heights of our economy and to spread the
fruits of development evenly through our
society.
In this challenging enterprise we have
always welcomed and we will continue
to welcome the understanding and active
cooperation and collaboration of all
genuine friends from outside our borders.
And we will continue, as we have done
in the past, to ensure security of all
investments made in our economy,
in accordance with our laws and our
regulations.
We share in common with the rest of
the developing world the usual disabilities
of inadequate food and shelter, weak
economic structures, poor health facilities,
mass illiteracy, lack of an adequate tech-
nological base, and an unflattering human
environment—all mainly caused by
colonialism.
While we count our own modest
achievements in our struggle for develop-
ment, we can only do so in marginal and
relative terms. Besides, our low level of
development stands out in bold relief,
because we live in a continent where
poverty, illiteracy, ignorance, disease, and
squalor are the rule, rather than the ex-
ception, and where a majority of the least
developed nations in the world are found.
The development objectives and
achievements of Nigeria, therefore, can-
not be viewed in isolation from conti-
nental obligations and situations on the
one hand, and internationally acceptable
definition of development on the other.
On the political plane, Mr. President,
one outstanding and most welcome devel-
opment in contemporary relations be-
tween Nigeria and your great country,
particularly since the inception of your
administration, as I had occasion to say
when I welcomed you in Dodan Barracks,
is the growing contact and consultation
between us.
As a result of this development, you
are now, no doubt, better equipped to
understand the reason for our persistent
reference to the grave threat to interna-
tional peace and security caused by the
explosive situation in the southern part
of Africa.
For obvious reasons, and by virtue of
our position, we cannot remain indiffer-
ent while the racists in southern Africa
oppress, repress, and subject to inhuman
degradation the overwhelming majority
of the indigenous people of the area and
deny them the most basic human rights
and elementary freedoms.
You will, no doubt, understand and
appreciate, therefore, our uncompromis-
ing insistence on dismantling the present
inhuman systems in southern Africa in
favor of a fair and just society.
From all indications our two Govern-
ments share identical views in this regard,
which I believe is perfectly understand-
able, judging by your own country's great
struggles, soon after its foundation, for
the attainment of these same ideals.
In our endeavors to achieve these goals,
our choice of means and methods and our
precision of timing may differ. But from
our exchange of views from this visit, we
are convinced that our common desires
and dedication to the task cannot be
called in doubt. On our part, we shall
therefore continue to extend all necessary
moral and material assistance to the vic-
tims of injustice, oppression, and apart-
heid in southern Africa.
I believe, also, that it is pertinent to
mention our deep concern about the pres-
ent level of foreign collaboration with
656
