Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We now have a period of 4 months to
make a complete report to the Congress
about the progress that has been con-
cluded. Without trying to preempt what
I know Chairman Bella Abzug will say,
we have had some successes already. The
Senate has passed a bill relating to preg-
nancy disability. It's now in the House.
We're fighting to get it passed.
In October, I signed a bill to Congress
that passed concerning child abuse. I
signed a bill against child pornography in
February of this year.
We are continuing the $200 million
commitment to child care under our Bet-
ter Jobs and Income Program. We have
an additional $600 million for child care
asked for in the Congress. Two major re-
organization proposals will have a perma-
nent and very profound impact on wom-
en's employment.
In the last 12 to 14 months, we've seen
the unemployment rate drop two full per-
centage points in our country. And women
have shared their portion of the net in-
crease of 4.1 million new jobs in America.
We've never had that big an increase
before.
But there's still a dearth of adequate
opportunity under the law and adminis-
Under Juanita Kreps, the new census
regulations will move to redress the un-
fairness with which data applied to
women to ensure their proper portion of
attention from Federal laws, the admin-
istration of justice, and the distribution of
our Nation's wealth to those who need it
most.
I will establish by Executive order a
continuing interdepartmental agency
group. And I will also establish a con-
tinuing committee of women, many of
you, to work intimately with the Cabinet
officers, the agency heads, the White
House staff, and me, personally, to be
sure that the superb work that you did at
Houston and since Houston will not be
lost, but will be implemented completely.
And now I would like to take an oppor-
tunity as a great honor for myself to intro-
duce to you my friend and a great chair-
man, Bella Abzug.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Following his
remarks, Bella S. Abzug, presiding officer of
the Commission, presented the President with
a copy of the Commission's report on the
National Women's Conference.
trative regulations, even in the Federal Department of Commerce
Government.
Under Eleanor Holmes Norton, we
hope to completely reorganize the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission's
work and focus the responsibility for that
fine principle under one strong and bold
leader.
Another reorganization plan that's now
being presented to the Congress is for the
change in the civil service laws, which, al-
though very fine in their vision a hundred
years ago, have over the years perpetu-
ated a deprivation of women's rights for
adequate and equal employment opportu-
nities. And the changes that we have pro-
posed will go a long way toward elimi-
nating that discrepancy.
Nomination of Henry Geller To Be
Assistant Secretary for Communications
and Information. March 22, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Henry Geller, of Alex-
andria, Va., to be Assistant Secretary of
Commerce for Communications and In-
formation.
Geller was born March 14, 1924, in
Springfield, Mass. He received a B.S. from
the University of Michigan in 1943 and
a J.D. from Northwestern School of Law
in 1949.
Geller was an attorney adviser in the
Law Department of the Federal Com-
munications Commission in 1949 and a
554
