Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 12
States. Mr. President, you are welcome to
our country.
We paid him a special honor today,
perhaps unprecedented in the history of
our Nation. We played two different na-
tional anthems to Romania [laughter]
the incorrect one this morning and the
correct one tonight. And I think this gives
us an excellent opportunity to judge the
tremendous progress that has been made
in Romania-[laughter]—because I like
the one tonight much better, Mr.
President.
It's always an exciting thing for us to
have distinguished leaders from other
nations come to visit us, and we always
like to put our best foot forward and not
only entertain our guests but to let them
know what a great country we have.
1
I was particularly eager to impress the
President's wife tonight, because she, on
her own, is a distinguished scientist, a
chemist, has done great research work.
And I was very careful to place on her left
someone who could speak her language
about science and about whom I could
brag as a distinguished American to show
how superior our country was. As a mat-
ter of fact, Dr. Palade ¹ is a Nobel laure-
ate, and I wanted to let Mrs. Ceausescu
know how advanced we were in training
Americans to win the foremost prize in all
the world. So, I was explaining it to her
very carefully, and in the middle of my
very proud dissertation, he pointed out to
me he was born, raised, and trained in
Romania. [Laughter] So we learned a lot
about each other.
I've had a delightful day with the Pres-
ident of this great country. I think it's ac-
curate to point out that as the leader of
his great nation, he's not only brought
tremendous progress to Romania but also
has taken on a role of leadership in the
¹ 1974 laureate George Emil Palade.
entire international community that's
notable.
He's been dedicated to the proposition
that a nation was sovereign, that its ter-
ritorial integrity should be honored, that
its people should be independent, and
that in spite of this complete commitment
to the pride of one's own nation, that there
should be bridges built, not only to other
countries from your own but between
other countries that have difficulty in
communicating because of different po-
litical and economic organizations within
their own countries.
He was one of the first leaders, I think,
who saw the benefits, economically, po-
litically, militarily, in détente, and he's
been a foremost proponent in trying to
bridge the gap between the Warsaw Pact
nations and the NATO countries. He has
a unique ability to relate easily to leaders
of nations, regardless of their political
commitment or orientation or back-
ground or history or conviction about the
present or future status of their countries.
He's been very helpful to me and my
predecessors in the White House in trying
to bring messages directly from leaders
with whom we don't communicate be-
cause of an absence of diplomatic inter-
relationships, and has provided a bridge
for the easing of tensions and the better
understanding on a worldwide basis.
As a member of the developing nations
of the world, he's been able to be an evoc-
ative and a very effective spokesman in
acquainting the industrial nations of the
world about how we could interrelate
more easily and more effectively with a
group of countries who quite often are
not well organized or not willing to sit
down and calmly negotiate the way to al-
leviate the wide disparity in economic
benefits.
He's the leader of one of the few Eastern
European nations who is a member of the
739
