June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Pursuant to the provisions of Section
1-202 of said Order, I designate the
Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers and the President's Personal
Representative for Micronesian Status
Negotiations to originally classify infor-
mation as "Secret".
Any delegation of this authority shall
be in accordance with Section 1-204 of
the Order.
This Order shall be published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
The White House,
June 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:19 p.m., June 29, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the order was released on
June 29.
Consumer Product Safety
Commission
Designation of Susan B. King as Chairman.
June 29, 1978
The President today announced that
he will designate Susan Bennett King as
Chairman of the Consumer Product
Safety Commission. In announcing the
designation, the President emphasized
that he personally made the decision to
support the 3-year reauthorization of the
agency and that he backs the OMB
budget recommendation for FY 1979.
King, 38, of Washington, D.C., was
nominated to be a member of the Com-
mission last January. She has also served
as special assistant to the Chairman of
the Federal Election Commission, as vice
president of the Center for Public Fi-
nancing of Elections, and as Washington
director of the National Committee for
an Effective Congress.
Student Loan Marketing
Association
Appointment of Five Members of the
Board of Directors. June 29, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of five persons as members
of the Board of Directors of the Student
Loan Marketing Association. They are:
BRENDA L. CATTERTON, of Arnold, Md., di-
rector of program development for the Na-
tional Student Educational Fund;
E. T. DUNLAP, chancellor of the Oklahoma
State Regents for Higher Education;
HERMAN E. GALLEGOS, president of the Hu-
man Resources Corporation in San Fran-
cisco, a management consulting firm;
GREGORY SCOTT NICHOLS, a political science
student at Iowa State University;
LOIS D. RICE, of Washington, D.C., vice pres-
ident of the College Entrance Examination
Board.
The Student Loan Marketing Associa-
tion was established by Congress in 1972.
There are 21 members on the Board of
Directors, and its purpose is to determine
general policies to govern the operation
of the Association in the buying, selling,
and warehousing of guaranteed student
loans.
New York City Financing
Legislation
Statement on Senate Action Approving
Guarantee Legislation. June 29, 1978
Today's action by the Senate represents
an historic point in New York's path to
economic recovery and financing self-
sufficiency.
Earlier this year, the prevailing view
was that the long-term guarantee legisla-
tion proposed by the administration could
never be enacted. The Senate's action to-
day reflects its awareness of the progress
the city has made, as well as its recogni-
1208
