Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Article XI of the Agreement provides
that it shall enter into force on the date
of exchange of written notices of accept-
ance by the Governments of the United
States of America and the Hungarian
People's Republic; and
Section 405 (c) of the Act provides that
a bilateral commercial agreement and a
proclamation implementing such agree-
ment shall take effect only if approved by
the Congress;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, proclaim as follows:
(1) This Proclamation shall become ef-
fective, said Agreement shall enter into
force according to its terms, and nondis-
criminatory treatment shall be extended
to the products of the Hungarian People's
Republic in accordance with the terms of
the said Agreement, on the date of ex-
change of written notices of acceptance in
accordance with Article XI of the said
Agreement; and
(2) General Headnote 3(e) of the
Tariff Schedules of the United States is
amended by deleting therefrom "Hun-
gary" as of the effective date of this proc-
lamation and a notice thereof shall be
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER
promptly thereafter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed
this Proclamation this seventh day of
April, in the year of our Lord one thou-
sand nine hundred seventy-eight, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:21 p.m., April 7, 1978]
NOTE: The agreement on U.S.-Hungarian
trade relations was filed with the Office of the
Federal Register as part of the original docu-
ment.
United States-Hungary
Trade Relations
Message to the Congress. April 7, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Section 402 (c) (2) of the
Trade Act of 1974, (hereinafter, "the
Act") I shall issue today an Executive
Order waiving the application of Subsec-
tions (a) and (b) of Section 402 of the
Act with respect to the Hungarian Peo-
ple's Republic.
I wish to report to the Congress that
I have determined that this waiver will
substantially promote the objectives of
Section 402 of the Act; and that I have
received assurances that the emigration
practices of the Hungarian People's Re-
public will henceforth lead substantially
to the achievement of those objectives.
The White House,
April 7, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Hungary
Trade Relations
Executive Order 12051. April 7, 1978
WAIVER UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF
1974 WITH RESPECT ΤΟ THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S Republic
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President of the United States of
America by Section 402 (c) (2) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 2057, 19
U.S.C. 2432 (c) (2)), which continues to
apply to the Hungarian People's Repub-
lic pursuant to Section 402(d), and
having made the report to the Congress
required by Section 402 (c) (2), I waive
the application of subsections (a) and
706
