Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 11
They've now agreed in principle on de-
regulation with an initial price of natural
gas, an increase in natural gas, with a cer-
tain percentage per year, complete de-
regulation to exist some years in the
future. I'm being vague because the posi-
tion of the Senators is vague. They've
worked out at least alternate proposals
on the definition of new gas, both on
land and in the Outer Continental Shelf
areas.
I met this morning with Senator How-
ard Baker. I met the day before yesterday
with Senator Jackson. And both of them
feel that we will have an energy bill. After
we finish the natural gas deregulation
discussion in the Senate, then before
there's an actual vote, there would be a
meeting with the House conferees and
Dr. Schlesinger, who would represent me,
and there would be a fairly general con-
sensus that this is what we will support.
Then the conference committee will
send their recommendations back to the
House and Senate. That would leave the
oil pricing legislation as the only remain-
ing issue. And I've had indications from
the Senators, Senator Long and others,
that once the natural gas problem is re-
solved, there would be a fairly rapid de-
cision on the crude oil equalization tax
question whether or not they have a
reserve fund to enhance oil production
and how the collected taxes would be
distributed.
So, I've been very disappointed at the
delay. The first veto of a natural gas de-
regulation bill was in 1950, 28 years ago.
And I have never seen in my own expe-
rience, and the Members of Congress tell
me that they've never seen such a compli-
cated subject with so many highly con-
flicting and intensely held opinions and
with such a repeated and ancient commit-
ment expressed for conflicting points of
view by previous votes.
It's very hard for a Congress Member
to vote five times in a row for deregulation
instantly and then decide that he'll wait
8 years before it's deregulated, or 5 years,
and so forth. The inability to compromise
has been very hard. But I would say that
we will have bills. It's of crucial impor-
tance. And I think the Congress is feeling
an increasing desire to resolve this issue
once and for all. My understanding from
the Senate leaders is that as soon as the
Panama Canal treaties are completed,
that energy will be the number one item
on the agenda.
TAX REFORM
Q. Mr. President, you've recommended
a $25 billion tax cut program. The Re-
publicans on the other hand have the
Kemp-Roth bill, which would cut taxes by
about 33 percent over a 3-year period.
Why do you think your package is better
than theirs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, as
President, I had all the options to choose
from. We assessed tax packages all the
way from $10 billion to $50 billion. And
I felt that we needed several things re-
lated to taxes: One was a reform of some
of the inequities that seemed to me to be
obvious to provide more fairness; sec-
ondly, a substantial simplification of the
tax laws and, therefore, the tax forms to
be filled out; and an overall tax reduction.
I think that our proposal reduces the
taxes of a four-person family, for every-
one in the country who makes less than
$100,000 or $200,000. And it more than
compensates in almost every instance for
the increase in social security taxes.
The primary people that are having to
pay increased social security taxes are
those who make $20,000, roughly, or
above. They deliberately ignore the fact
that although they are paying more for
social security, their retirement benefits
311
