Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Although the President sends annual re-
ports to Congress on U.S. activities in the
United Nations, this is the first report con-
cerning reform of the U.N. organization it-
self and, accordingly, contains the adminis-
tration's recommendations for realistically
strengthening the U.N. organization in a num-
ber of areas. The report generally indicates
the administration's commitment to giving a
higher priority to resolving issues within the
U.N. framework and its belief that reforms in
a number of areas are urgently needed. A basic
premise of the report is that under present
circumstances, reform by amending the U.N.
Charter is improbable, and it is, therefore,
more productive to seek institutional and ad-
ministrative reforms within the present charter
framework.
The President's report (accompanied by a
longer analysis by the Secretary of State) is
organized around seven areas of concern to the
Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on Strengthening the Role
of the Organization. These are:
1. Peace, security, and strengthening inter-
national law;
2. Decisionmaking processes in the United
Nations;
3. Human rights;
4. Financing the United Nations;
5. Achieving greater efficiency in the United
Nations system;
6. Improving United States participation in
the work of the organizations and pro-
grams of the United Nations system;
7. The Secretariat of the United Nations
system.
Among the major recommendations in the
President's report are the following:
-to press for strengthening of human rights
procedures in the U.N.
-to assist, upon request from the Secretary
General, with airlift of troops and equipment
required for establishing a U.N. Peacekeeping
Force authorized by the Security Council.
-to offer factual information from aircraft
reconnaissance technology to the Security
Council, when the parties to a dispute agree
and under Security Council authorization.
-to explore the possibility of establishing a
Special Peacekeeping Fund on the order of
$100 million to help cover initial costs of op-
erations authorized by the Security Council.
-to work for better coordination of the
U.N. Technical Assistance activities by making
the U.N. Development Program (UNDP) the
major channel for U.S. voluntary contributions
and helping to strengthen the UNDP's pro-
graming and coordinating role.
-to hold periodic meetings of the Security
Council at the Foreign Minister level as part of
a general effort to strengthen the role of the
Security Council in the peaceful settlement of
disputes.
-to foster greater use of the International
Court of Justice by a variety of means, includ-
ing reevaluating existing disputes to see whether
they are appropriate to submit to the Court.
-to give substantially greater weight in our
national policy to decisions arrived at by con-
sensus in United Nations bodies.
-to support recent General Assembly plans
to restructure and reform the economic and
social functions of the U.N.
-to explore new ways of meeting the U.N.
financial deficit and explore the possibility of
supplementing U.N. finances from sources other
than contributions of member governments.
On the subject of weighted voting, the Pres-
ident's report states, "There is no prospect for
the adoption of a generally applicable
weighted-voting system in the General Assem-
bly." The report suggests that instead of trying
to work for weighted voting, "it would be better
to employ our efforts toward defining volun-
tary, but common standards to curtail the use
of the veto in the Security Council and reduce
the necessity of invoking it."
The report notes that, "If we are to develop
adequate machinery for management of the
world's common problems, a central concern
of our foreign policy in the remaining years of
this century must be the building of a more
effective U.N. system. To this end, this ad-
ministration is committed to working for a
stronger and more effective United Nations."
In the context of consultations with Con-
gress, the United States will proceed to discuss
these proposals with other members of the
United Nations and with Secretary General
Waldheim and to seek their support.
450
