June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Veterans Preference in Civil
Service Reform
Letter to Chairman Robert N.C. Nix of the
House Post Office and Civil Service
Committee. June 20, 1978
To Chairman Robert Nix
I understand that the House Post Of-
fice and Civil Service Committee will be-
gin markup on Civil Service reform this
week. As you know, the Civil Service re-
forms I have proposed to Congress in-
clude a number of critically important
measures to reform the Civil Service sys-
tem. Chairman Alan Campbell of the
Civil Service Commission has sent you a
separate letter outlining our positions on
how the Committee has dealt with a
number of these issues in its new Commit-
tee print. I look forward to the Commit-
tee's review of these comments.
I am pleased with the progress that has
been made so far and I am confident that
the Committee will move responsibly and
expeditiously through the markup process.
I want to take this opportunity to re-
affirm my commitment to changing the
Veterans Preference System in Federal
employment, and I urge the Committee
to join me in this effort. We owe veterans
our deep gratitude for serving their coun-
try, and they more than deserve special
treatment from our government. How-
ever, veterans preference as it presently
operates severely interferes with employ-
ment opportunities for women and other
minorities, discriminates against younger
veterans who are outnumbered by vet-
erans who served before, and greatly
hampers managerial flexibility.
Under my proposals, veterans prefer-
ence would be focused where it is most
needed: on Vietnam-era veterans and
those who are disabled. Veterans prefer-
ence would not be abolished. Rather, it
would be brought into line with its orig-
inal
purpose, to help veterans readjust to
civilian life. Let me point out that Con-
gress itself ended veterans preference en-
tirely for non-disabled veterans who en-
tered the service on or after October 16,
1976.
On the Senate side, a compromise had
been worked out with some Members of
the Senate Governmental Affairs Com-
mittee which I supported, but which did
not carry, but only by a narrow margin.
Under this compromise, which I continue
to support:
-Veterans preference would be avail-
able for one time use for a full 15 years
following discharge from the armed
forces.
-All veterans would be eligible for an
absolute preference where Reductions in
Force occur for their first 8 years of Fed-
eral employment.
-Veterans preference would be elimi-
nated for retired military officers of field
grade rank or above and limited for other
military personnel who have retired after
at least 20 years in service to 3 years fol-
lowing retirement.
As you know, my veterans preference
proposals would not adversely affect dis-
abled veterans. In fact, I also proposed
steps to go beyond existing programs for
disabled and Vietnam-era veterans. I
have agreed that disabled veterans for the
first time be permitted non-competitive
appointment to Federal service if they
either have a 30% or more service con-
nected disability or are involved with a
Veterans Administration prescribed job
training course.
I have also proposed an extension as
well as a significant expansion of the Vet-
erans Readjustment Appointment Au-
thority to aid employment of Vietnam-era
and disabled veterans that has now been
1138
