Apr. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
nation, as well as among nations. Ameri-
can development assistance will go in-
creasingly to those areas where it can
make the greatest contribution to the eco-
nomic rights of the poor.
Progress towards economic develop-
ment requires the pursuit of our third goal
as well-again which we share with
you-a peaceful Africa, free of military
intervention, for economic progress is
best pursued in times of peace.
Africans themselves can best find
peaceful answers to African disputes
through the Organization of African
Unity and, when needed, with the help
of the United Nations.
We support your efforts to strengthen
the peacemaking role of the Organization
of African Unity, and we share Nigeria's
belief in the practical contributions the
United Nations can make.
U.N. peacekeeping forces are already,
today, playing a crucial role in the Middle
East. They can help bring independence
and majority rule, in peace, to Namibia
and to Zimbabwe.
The military intervention of outside
powers or their proxies in such disputes
too often makes local conflicts even more
complicated and dangerous and opens
the door to a new form of domination or
colonialism. We oppose such intervention
by outside military forces. We must not
allow great power rivalries to destroy our
hopes for an Africa at peace.
This is one reason we applaud the
leading role of Nigeria in seeking to find
peaceful solutions to such tragedies as
the recent struggle between Ethiopia and
Somalia in the Horn of Africa.
We are concerned that foreign troops
are already planning for military action
inside Ethiopia against the Eritreans,
which will result in greatly increased
bloodshed among those unfortunate peo-
ples. Although I will remain careful to
see that our friends are not put at a dis-
advantage, I am working to curb our own
role as a supplier of arms, and we urge
others to show similar restraint.
We prefer to seek good relations with
African and other nations through the
works of peace, not war. America's contri-
bution will be to life and development
and not to death or destruction.
Plainly, military restraint by outsiders
can best be brought about if all nations,
including those who buy weapons, ac-
tively seek that constraint. We would wel-
come and support voluntary regional
agreements among African leaders to re-
duce the purchase of weapons as a major
step towards peace and away from the
economic deprivation of the poor, when
badly needed money that could give them
a better life goes to purchase weapons to
take lives.
I've talked about many subjects this
afternoon, very briefly, but in one way or
another, I've been talking about change
in the world that we all share. Sometimes
we grow impatient or cynical about that
change, thinking that it's too slow, that
it may not come at all.
I know something about social change.
In my own lifetime, I've seen the re-
gion of my birth, the southern part of the
United States, changed from a place of
poverty and despair and racial division to
a land of bright promise and opportunity
and increasing racial harmony.
I've seen the towering wall between
the races taken down, piece by piece, until
the whites and the blacks of my country
could reach across it to each other.
I know that our own society is different
from any other, and I know that we still
have much to do in the United States.
But nothing can shake my faith that in
every part of the world, peaceful change
can come and bless the lives of human be-
ings. Nothing can make me doubt that
this continent will win its struggle for
freedom-freedom from racism and the
650
