May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President, will certainly take full advan-
tage of everything we can derive from you
in counsel and advice and well-deserved
criticism when we do forget that we in
our affluence, with the historic blessings
of freedom and equality for the majority
of our people, must be reminded that
other nations are still struggling for those
attributes that all mankind desires so
deeply.
So, it's with a great deal of pleasure
that I say in your language, Mwaiseni
Murwai [welcome to you, sir], and in an-
other language that I happen to know, I
would like to say, from the people of the
United States, we would like to propose
a toast to a great leader, President
Kaunda, and to the fine people of Zambia
for a great common future and for human
rights throughout the world.
PRESIDENT KAUNDA. Mr. President, I
know you've got an appointment to go to,
but I shall invite my colleagues to come
and join me in their short song, which,
since you are also revolutionaries—you
fought for your own independence this
song we sing when we are reminding our-
selves about the ongoing struggle. Dele-
gation—including the press. [Laughter]
[At this point President Kaunda and members
of his cabinet sang the song. He then resumed
speaking.]
Mr. President, sisters and brothers:
President Carter and myself have ex-
changed many letters since he assumed
office on January 20, 1977. I was corre-
sponding with a man about whom I knew
little. Fortunately, the American political
system affords Americanologists in the
world to assess an American President
even before he enters the White House.
So, even before meeting him, I had al-
ready regarded him as a man I under-
stood and admired from the principles
widely disseminated by the American
news media. Today it is a pleasure to be
with him in Washington to share with him
the experiences, the joys, the burdens, and
the challenges of this world. My discus-
sions with him today have confirmed my
impressions. He is a man endowed with
penetrating simplicity and humility as
well as transparent honesty reminiscent
of a peasant.
As you know, honesty is such a rare
commodity in a world that has become
increasingly cruel, cruel against men and
cruel against itself. Already President
Carter has done two most important
things, among others, affecting man's re-
lations with man throughout the world.
He has injected an important moral tonic
into politics among nations. He has
brought human rights into the full focus
of international attention, thereby imple-
menting on a world scale the principles
enunciated by the Founding Fathers of
the United States.
That the American people should bring
to power a person like Jimmy Carter is a
credit to their political system. Though it
is different from ours, your two-party
system, and our one-party, but still a
democracy, attempt to give people of dif-
ferent backgrounds, men and women of
humble beginnings, opportunity to lead
their fellow man in shaping their
destinies.
Jimmy Carter's background has greatly
assisted America's approach to Africa and
the Third World. Africa today is much
higher on the list of American priorities.
This is not a favor to Africa. It is simply
the result of an honest facing of realities in
the maintenance of international peace
and security.
America's relations with African coun-
tries have improved. Zambia's relations
with the United States have improved.
Conflict of views is being replaced by
concord in the solution of current crises.
Where America would have rushed to be
involved in supporting a wrong cause,
fighting by proxy any infestation of com-
922
