Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question. I don't know the answer.
Q. One more question. Have you dis-
cussed the subject with Secretary Cali-
fano since your meeting with Governor
Hunt and Senator Morgan 2 weeks ago?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we had a discus-
sion about this Monday morning at the
Cabinet meeting.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. I wish I could stay longer, but I've
got to go out and see how airplanes work
on carriers.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 9:50 a.m. outside Wait Chapel at Wake
Forest University.
Savannah, Georgia
Remarks During a Visit Aboard the U.S.S.
Dwight D. Eisenhower. March 17, 1978
In 1942, before many of you were born,
I entered the Navy as an ROTC student
at Georgia Tech. Later I went to the U.S.
Naval Academy, and I was graduated in
1946 in the Class of 1947. And I then
went to the U.S.S. Mississippi and the
U.S.S. Wyoming, an old battleship that
was doing modern experimental work.
Later I went into submarines and
served on the U.S.S. Pomfret, later the
U.S.S. K-1. And I was the commanding
officer of the precommissioning crew of
the U.S.S. Seawolf, the second atomic
submarine that was ever built. Then I
resigned from the Navy, and a number of
years later I got a slight promotion to my
new job. [Laughter]
But I'm still one of you. As President of
the United States and as Commander in
Chief, I've had a chance today to be re-
assured that our Nation is strong, that
that strength is being used to preserve
peace around the world, and that the
destiny of our country rests on the shoul-
ders of strong men like yourselves, who
exemplify superb service and courage in
one of the great ships of the greatest navy
in the greatest country on Earth.
You can be truly proud of what you are
doing. I know that for many of you this
is your first tour at sea, and you serve on
one of the newest and the best ships in the
world. I've had a chance today to see how
the ship operates, to study it before I
came out this morning from an air base
in Savannah. I've seen your nuclear reac-
tor areas and the machinery areas, the
flight deck operation. I've been on the
bridge. I've seen your great crew main-
tain the U.S.S. Eisenhower and operate
it in a means that would make the Navy
proud had you been training for these
specific duties for years and years, or even
a whole career.
It's extremely
important that the
Eisenhower, as a major fighting compo-
nent of our Nation's defense, be con-
stantly ready for that purpose. We hope
and we pray that the tremendous nuclear
power and tactical power of our country
won't have to be used in combat during
our lifetime. And the best way to ensure
that this is the case, that we do maintain
peace for our own country, for our allies,
for our friends, is to be strong. And as
long as I'm Commander in Chief and
President, I'll do the best I can to keep
our country strong.
There is an inherent partnership be-
tween civilian leadership-myself, the
Secretary of Defense, who's here, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, who's here, Dr. Brze-
zinski, the head of my National Security
Council, who is here on the one hand,
along with the Congress, and you, the
fighting men of our Armed Forces.
There's also a close partnership that's
required and certainly has been exhibited
today between the ship's crew and the air
combat fighters who have exhibited their
!
538
