Jan. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
referred to Jean-Louis Le Carpentier, mayor of
Bayeux.
Following the remarks, President Carter and
President Giscard d'Estaing boarded a train
at Bayeux for the return trip to Paris. Dur-
ing the trip, they held a working luncheon and
a meeting.
Versailles, France
Toast at the State Dinner. January 5, 1978
Mr. President and Mrs. Giscard d'Estaing,
distinguished leaders of France, friends
who have made our brief visit here so in-
spirational and so enjoyable:
We have said many times since arriving
in France how closely related our nations
have been since the origins of our repub-
lics. In addition to the heroism shown by
warriors who fought together in times of
conflict and trial, we also had intimate re-
lations that existed between the early
leaders of our country and the leaders and
the people of France.
Two of our earliest Presidents served
here during their tutelage for leadership,
Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. Ben-
jamin Franklin, another great leader of
our country, served here as Ambassador of
the United States in its formative stage.
Unbeknown to the Continental Congress
and other national leaders, Benjamin
Franklin was also an Ambassador from my
own State of Georgia. We paid him, se-
cretly, $15 a month. [Laughter] I under-
stand he did our work at night, along with
"This is my country." The interesting
thing is that he said this, "a thorough
knowledge of the rights of man," years
before the Declaration of the Rights of
Man.
As President Giscard d'Estaing has al-
ready said, the first treaty of independence
between Great Britain and the United
States was signed here at Versailles. And
President Wilson came back here in 1919,
at this very place, to sign the Treaty of
Versailles, establishing again both peace
and a worldwide commitment to freedom
and liberty.
It is difficult, perhaps, for citizens of
France to know or to comprehend the
deep feeling of brotherhood, mutual pur-
pose, and appreciation held in the hearts
of Americans for what your nation has
done for us.
In the early years of our young nation,
Lafayette was still a great hero in our
country. In my own State of Georgia, he
traveled widely, visiting the cities of Au-
gusta, Sparta, Milledgeville, Savannah,
and we even know that he visited a small
Indian village between Georgia and Ala-
bama very close to where I live. We have
both a city and a county in my own State
named after Lafayette.
The Declaration of Independence and
the Declaration of the Rights of Man ini-
tiated the startling concept throughout the
world of basic human rights. Since I've
been here, President Giscard d'Estaing
and I have discussed some of the aspects
that go with the definition of human
many other interesting things. [Laughter] rights. One of the most important is that
Benjamin Franklin made a very inter-
esting statement during the time he was
Ambassador here which I would like to
read. "God grant that not only the love of
liberty but a thorough knowledge of the
rights of man may pervade all the nations
of the earth so that a philosopher may set
his foot anywhere on its surface and say
of worldwide peace.
Another is economic benefit, which
guarantees free people a chance for food,
shelter, health, education, and a chance
for their spirits to grow.
Another is to strengthen the ties of
friendship, such as those which exist be-
30
