Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
I didn't claim nor do I now claim that
I know all the answers. I've had press
conferences at least twice a month to let
the national news media cross-examine
me in an unconstrained, unrehearsed way
on the most difficult issues that any
human being could possibly face, dom-
estic and international issues involving
the very life of our country and our
people.
And I've had experiences like this
where citizens cross-examine me without
so much time constraint for a full hour
and a half in places like New Hampshire
and Mississippi, Massachusetts, to listen
to your voice, to the tone of your voice,
to the thrust of your question, and then
to try to respond.
Again, I don't claim to know all the
answers, but I'm not afraid to face them.
And I look forward to the time when
people will begin to see much more clearly
that we are now addressing some of the
most difficult questions that our Nation
has ever faced, at least in peacetime.
Almost 200 years ago, Congress voted
to place our National Capital at what was
then almost the exact center of the
United States. But even then, Washing-
ton, D.C., seemed to be a very distant, a
remote place to some parts of our Nation,
like Georgia, because it took several days,
many days, to go from Georgia to see the
Congress or even to send a letter to
Washington, D.C., and get a reply back.
And I think that you all know, without
my having to explain it to you, that Wash-
ington, D.C., is no longer the center of
our country geographically. It's way over
on one side of the Nation-some people
say on the wrong side. But the sheer size
of our country today would obviously
amaze our Founding Fathers.
Technology, the innovation of Ameri-
can people, has shrunk those distances.
We can now communicate directly by
telephone or other means in a matter of
seconds, and we can visit with one an-
other personally after a delay of only a
few hours. So the distances are less in
those respects. But still Washington, D.C.,
is 2,500 miles from Washington State.
And it can still seem distant and remote.
One of the reasons I ran for President
was because I thought I could reduce that
sense of distance or alienation or remote-
ness. This trip is part of that effort.
I've come here to the great Northwest
to talk about the most pressing issues that
all of us face together, and to listen to
what you have to say about those issues.
We have a lot to do and a lot to discuss.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
One of the issues that is ever present
on my mind is the question of inflation,
which hurts every family in this country.
It's perhaps the toughest domestic prob-
lem we face, and there are no easy an-
swers to it. It's going to take a lot of time
and a lot of ingenuity to bring inflation
under control, and it is going to take
some sacrifice, some sacrifice from all of
us.
I'm going to take the leadership as
President through a series of specific ac-
tions, including holding down pay in-
creases for Federal employees-for those
at the executive management level, zero
increase this year. I'm going to cut down
wasteful spending and make sure that we
don't have any greater deficit than the
one we already face.
I'm going to work for legislation to
control hospital costs, which have been
going up for all our people at twice the
rate of other inflation, increased 15 per-
cent last year. And I'm going to reduce
unnecessary government regulations and
intrusion into the lives of American
people, sometimes very costly in infla-
tion, like in the deregulation of the air-
line industry. But all of us need to work
861
