Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
scinded and that all suspension orders
issued by the Governor be terminated ef-
fective on the day of that rescission. The
Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency retains full authority to
disapprove temporary suspensions of reg-
ulations in Maryland and to exercise his
emergency powers authority under Sec-
tion 303 of the Clean Air Act, when and
if necessary.
I urge the Governor to act with due
care if he suspends air pollution regula-
tions under the authority provided by this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health. In
conducting hearings and making findings,
I urge the Governor to consider carefully
that suspensions which would allow a fa-
cility to burn available fuel which could
not otherwise be utilized generally are ap-
propriate. On the other hand, suspen-
sions which permit facilities to turn off
pollution control devices should be used
sparingly and as a last resort, because
such suspensions will accomplish only
small energy savings while increasing
risks to public health.
I also urge the Governor to implement
fully necessary energy conservation meas-
ures so that the necessity for suspension
of pollution control regulations can be
minimized.
NOTE: The Presidential determination is
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 24,
1978.
Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 9375 Into Law.
March 7, 1978
The Supplemental Appropriations Act,
H.R. 9375, which I am signing today,
contains three major elements that I had
requested: it rescinds funds for the B-1
bomber, makes available $4.5 billion in
waste water treatment grants to local
communities, and provides $1.4 billion
for Small Business Administration disaster
loans to farmers who suffered crop losses
in last year's drought.
I am particularly pleased that the Con-
gress has supported the rescission of the
funds formerly planned for construction
of the fifth and sixth B-1 bombers. In sup-
porting this rescission, the Congress has
saved the taxpayers nearly half a billion
dollars.
The program of research and testing
we will carry out, using the first four B-1
aircraft, will provide an adequate hedge
against the unlikely possibility that our
current plans for modernizing the B-52
bombers with cruise missiles do not work
out.
I am especially grateful to Chairman
George Mahon and Senators John Sten-
nis and John Culver for their dedicated
work in the passage of this bill, in keep-
ing out additional B–1 funds.
The largest appropriation in this bill is
for the waste treatment grants. The Con-
gress has authorized funding of this pro-
gram through fiscal year 1982, so that
local governments can plan their projects
better. I am committed to consistent long-
term Federal support for the effort to
clean up our water supplies. As a legisla-
tor and as a Governor, I saw the serious
problems and needless expense that local
communities often suffered when funds
were inconsistent, delayed, or impounded.
Under current law, both the Farmers
Home Administration in the Department
of Agriculture and the SBA have author-
ity to grant disaster loans to farmers. I
have recommended legislation to remedy
this overlapping jurisdiction by giving the
Department of Agriculture sole responsi-
bility in this area. In the meantime, the
funds in this supplemental appropriation
will enable SBA to handle current appli-
cations for low-cost loans.
472
