Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
However, again, we know that in our
free society, private business is still the
best source of new jobs. Therefore, I will
propose a new program to encourage busi-
nesses to hire young and disadvantaged
Americans. These young people only need
skills and a chance in order to take their
place in our economic system. Let's give
them the chance they need. A major step
in the right direction would be the early
passage of a greatly improved Humphrey-
Hawkins bill.
My budget for 1979 addresses these na-
tional needs, but it is lean and tight. I
have cut waste wherever possible.
I am proposing an increase of less than
2 percent after adjusting for inflation—
the smallest increase in the Federal budget
in 4 years.
Lately, Federal spending has taken a
steadily increasing portion of what Amer-
icans produce. Our new budget reverses
that trend, and later I hope to bring the
Government's toll down even further.
And with your help, we'll do that.
In time of high employment and a
strong economy, deficit spending should
not be a feature of our budget. As the
economy continues to gain strength and as
our unemployment rates continue to fall,
revenues will grow. With careful plan-
ning, efficient management, and proper
restraint on spending, we can move rap-
idly toward a balanced budget-and we
will.
Next year the budget deficit will be only
slightly less than this year. But one-third
of the deficit is due to the necessary tax
cuts that I've proposed. This year the
right choice is to reduce the burden on
taxpayers and provide more jobs for our
people.
The third element in our program is a
renewed attack on inflation. We've
learned the hard way that high unemploy-
ment will not prevent or cure inflation.
Government can help us by stimulating
private investment and by maintaining a
responsible economic policy. Through a
new top-level review process, we will do a
better job of reducing Government reg-
ulation that drives up costs and drives up
prices.
But again, Government alone cannot
bring down the rate of inflation. When a
level of high inflation is expected to con-
tinue, then companies raise prices to pro-
tect their profit margins against prospec-
tive increases in wages and other costs,
while workers demand higher wages as
protection against expected price in-
creases. It's like an escalation in the arms
race, and understandably, no one wants
to disarm alone.
Now, no one firm or a group of workers
can halt this process. It's an effort that we
must all make together. I'm therefore ask-
ing government, business, labor, and other
groups to join in a voluntary program to
moderate inflation by holding wage and
price increases in each sector of the econ-
omy during 1978 below the average in-
creases of the last 2 years.
I do not believe in wage and price con-
trols. A sincere commitment to voluntary
constraint provides a way—perhaps the
only way-to fight inflation without Gov-
ernment interference.
As I came into the Capitol tonight, I
saw the farmers, my fellow farmers, stand-
ing out in the snow. I'm familiar with
their problem, and I know from Congress
action that you are too. When I was run-
ning Carters Warehouse, we had spread
on our own farms 5-10-15 fertilizer for
about $40 a ton. The last time I was
home, the price was about $100 a ton. The
cost of nitrogen has gone up 150 percent,
and the price of products that farmers
sell has either stayed the same or gone
down a little.
93
