Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
lays has been held to less than 2 percent
and the share of Federal expenditures in
GNP will fall to 22.0 percent. I intend to
continue prudent expenditure controls in
the future. With good management we
can, I believe, achieve our Nation's im-
portant social goals and still reduce over
time the share of gross national product
committed to Federal expenditures to
about 21 percent.
USING TAX REDUCTIONS TO PROMOTE
STEADY ECONOMIC EXPANSION
I propose to rely principally upon
principally upon
growth in the private sector of the econ-
omy to reduce unemployment and raise
incomes. Special Federal efforts will, of
course, be necessary to deal with such
problems as structural unemployment,
but tax reductions will be the primary
means by which Federal budget policy
will promote growth. Careful manage-
ment of budget outlays and a growing
economy should permit substantial re-
ductions in the years ahead. Tax reduc-
tions will be needed to strengthen
consumer purchasing power and expand
consumer markets. Stable growth in mar-
kets, together with added tax incentives
for business, will lead to rising business
investment and growing productivity.
As inflation and real economic growth
raise the incomes of most Americans, they
are pushed into higher income tax brack-
ets. The tax burden on individuals is
raised just as if higher rates had been en-
acted. The payroll taxes levied on work-
ers and business firms for social security
and unemployment insurance will also in-
crease substantially over the years ahead.
These are very large increases, but they
are needed to keep our social security
and unemployment insurance systems
soundly financed.
Between 1977 and 1979, taxes on busi-
nesses and individuals will rise very
sharply as a result of these several factors.
Even though our economy is basically
healthy, this increasingly heavy tax bur-
den would exert a mounting drag on eco-
nomic growth. It must, therefore, be
counteracted by tax reductions. The mag-
nitude and timing of the reductions
should be designed to maintain economic
growth at a steady pace, taking into ac-
count the effects both of the growing tax
burden and of other factors at work in
the economy.
Consistent with this strategy, I am pro-
posing a $25 billion program of net tax
reductions accompanied by substantial
tax reforms.
Individual income taxes will be re-
duced primarily through across-the-board
reductions in personal tax rates, with spe-
cial emphasis on low- and middle-income
taxpayers. Personal taxes also will be sim-
plified by my proposal to replace the ex-
isting personal exemption and credit with
a tax credit of $240 for each person in the
taxpayer's family.
There also will be important reforms
that will improve the individual income
tax system and raise substantial revenues,
enabling me to recommend larger per-
sonal tax reductions.
Overall, I am proposing personal tax
reductions of $24 billion, offset by $7 bil-
lion in tax reforms. These tax cuts, which
will take effect next October 1, will sig-
nificantly improve the progressivity of the
tax system. The typical four-person
family with $15,000 in income will receive
a tax cut of $258—or more than 19 per-
cent. As a result of the changes I am rec-
ommending, filling out tax returns will be
simpler for many people.
Individuals also will benefit from re-
ductions I have proposed in the Federal
excise tax on telephone bills, and in the
Federal payroll tax for unemployment in-
surance. These two proposals will add
134
