Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 4
have been deprived in the past. He has an
excellent understanding of economics in
every respect, and as you know, he has
received overwhelming support already
in the Congress after investigation of
him.
So, I have complete confidence in him.
I think he's capable of balancing the
same two basic factors that I have to
balance on a daily basis-inflation, on the
one hand, and restoration of job oppor-
tunities, on the other.
This past year we were highly success-
ful in both areas. I've only been in office
1 year. I inherited an unemployment rate
of, I think, 8.1 percent. At the end of the
year the unemployment rate, this in Jan-
uary, was 6.3 percent, a remarkable
reduction.
At the same time, for the last 6 months
of 1977, the inflation rate had dropped
to about 4 percent, 42 percent, whereas
I inherited an inflation rate approach-
ing 10 percent. So, we've made good
progress.
INFLATION
Q. Do you have any specific policies
that you will submit to Congress for
fighting inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. In every respect-you
know, we have in every decision I make
involving economics, whether it's a jobs
bill or a level of budget authorizations
or a decision on Executive administra-
tion, in every one of those items we have
to carefully consider the impact of infla-
tion. On our importing of oil, we're try-
ing to cut down on that with a compre-
hensive energy package.
We've asked the labor and business to
voluntarily constrain themselves on in-
creasing wages and prices, so that their
new negotiations for wage settlements
beginning this year and their increases in
prices would be below what they were
the last 2 years.
We've had an underlying inflation rate
of 6 to 62 percent, which is still prevail-
ing. But we have set a goal for ourselves
to reduce this substantially below 5 per-
cent. And that's compatible with the
other elements of our economic package,
to increase the GNP 4 or 5 percent per
year and to cut the unemployment rate
down as well.
So, those three things-to have a stim-
ulus to keep our economy growing to
put our people back to work, to limit
Government expenditures as a percent-
age of total GNP and total income of the
people of our country, and to hold down
inflation—are very tightly knit and coher-
ent Government policy on economics.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Recently the dollar hit a record low
in international monetary markets, re-
flecting the continued lack of confidence
throughout the world in our currency.
How do you account for this lack of con-
fidence, and what action is your admin-
istration taking to alleviate the plight?
THE PRESIDENT. I pointed out yester-
day at the National Press Club that the
basic elements of economic theory have
pretty well been ignored in the last 2 or 3
weeks. We have been trying to get Ger-
many, Japan, and other very strong na-
tions who are prosperous and who are
growing to meet us on an economic stim-
ulus effort.
The fact is that the OPEC nations
export about $60 billion worth of prod-
ucts more than they import. In other
words, they have got a $60 billion positive
trade balance. The trade balance all over
the world has got to be zero. You've got
to have a total amount of exports in all
cases equal to the total amount of imports.
So, the rest of the nations have to
absorb about a $60 billion deficit. We are
absorbing our portion of it, more than
our portion now. The Germans and the
461
