Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
as President of our country. And I want to
thank them and the people of Iowa and
all of the Americans who have their
hearts, at this moment, focused on India
because of the presence here of me and my
wife.
I've come, just a few moments ago,
from the beautiful and simple memorial
to Mahatma Gandhi, a man who repre-
sented in his simple, courageous, and
dedicated life, principles which never
change. He was, indeed, and still is a
spiritual leader of the whole world, and
he represents principles that I try to keep
ever present in my own mind—a hope
for peace, for nonviolence, for pure
truth, for dedication, for compassion, for
understanding, for love, for simplicity.
And even in his great strength as a moral
leader, he was able to exhibit all these
characteristics.
It's a sobering thought to know the
economic and military and political
and political
power of the United States. When I met
last night and this morning with the lead-
ers of India-President Reddy, Prime
Minister Desai, members of the Cabi-
net-in almost every important discussion
that arose concerning atomic weapons or
the prohibition against them, or conven-
tional arms sales to the Horn of Africa,
the Middle East, international trade, the
functions of the United Nations-in al-
most every instance, Prime Minister
Desai said, "Well, the responsibility lies
on the shoulders of you and the Soviet
Union." And I think he has a tendency
to exaggerate the influence of our coun-
try, perhaps, somewhat, but still it is a
sobering thought to know that the world
looks to us for the maintenance of peace
and for mutual progress and for the so-
lution of some of the economic and so-
cial ills that afflict the world.
I come here representing our Nation as
a President sobered by power and also
proud to represent the freedoms and the
commitment to human rights and the
search for peace that is our Nation and
which exemplifies the deep yearnings of
all the American people. So, I am an im-
portant representative here in India, one
of our closest and most valued friends in
the largest democracy on Earth.
But equally with me, you represent our
country also in a very tangible way and in
a permanent way-not just the Ambassa-
dor and his wife, but every member of the
staff, both American and Indian. You rep-
resent the United States here on Ameri-
can soil and in your every contact with the
people who look to you and say, "There
goes a representative of America." And
the wives and husbands of the staff mem-
bers, and even the smallest child who's
perhaps only 2 or 3 years old, you are part
of the United States of America here in
India. It's with a great sense of awareness
that I recognize the professional commit-
ment and the quality of your work in the
Embassy here in New Delhi.
Your responsibility is to know this
country—its strengths, its weaknesses, its
achievements, its problems, its past, its
present, and its future-and also to know
the same characteristics of our own Na-
tion; to search for common commitments
and areas of agreement and means by
which we can strengthen the valuable
friendships which bind us together.
At the same time, it's incumbent upon
you to let us know back in Washington in
a continuing, routine way how I, as Presi-
dent, and the Secretary of State, other
leaders in our administration and the
Congress, can perform better to realize
the tremendous hopes that we all share.
India is a special place because of
Gandhi, because of Nehru, because of
Desai and others. There is a sense in the
world that moral leadership derives from
the Indian people in a direct and continu-
ing fashion. And I think the elections in
India this past year have again shown a
4
