Feb. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I will now appoint a Presidential com-
mission, which has already been discussed
with you, to work with union and man-
agement to find answers to the basic ques-
tions of health, safety, and stable produc-
tivity. In the meantime, I offer my con-
gratulations and my sincere thanks to
those who have made the collective bar-
gaining process work.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:03 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. His re-
marks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
Reception for Friends From
New Hampshire
Remarks at the White House Reception.
February 24, 1978
My whole family is coming in. We've
been very grateful to interrupt the receiv-
ing line. Nobody will complain, I'm sure,
because we have reached a long-sought
agreement on the coal contract, and we
hope that within the next 10 days or 2
weeks- Happlause]. All afternoon I've
been writing two speeches: a long one if
we failed-and we had television time al-
ready arranged for 9 o'clock this eve-
ning—and a short one if we succeeded.
And I preferred the short speech.
I just spoke to Lucille Kelley and Rosa-
lynn, and I told Lucille that "Second only
to you, I've spent more nights with her
than I have any other woman in the
world." [Laughter]
You can't imagine how close we feel to
you. Although it's been exactly 2 years
since we heard the tremendous news of
the New Hampshire primary election re-
turns, you've remained constantly in our
hearts.
I went to New Hampshire as a lonely
candidate with practically no friends. I
was later followed by all the members of
my family and then by hundreds of mem-
bers of the Peanut Brigade, some of whom
are here tonight. And you took us in, and
we felt that we were part of you. It was a
lot like Georgia, with the small commu-
nities, close-knit families, deep religious
convictions, a belief in our Nation and
what it stands for, a willingness to work
hard, sometimes poverty, but always en-
couragement.
At first we had a hard time knowing
what to call you. Some folks said "New
Hampshiremen," but we knew the women
would get mad. Some folks said "New
Hampshirites." Some said "Granite
Staters." Somebody in Georgia said, “Just
call them Republicans." [Laughter] We
proved that was wrong. And so finally I
and all my family, the Peanut Brigaders,
found a word to call you, and that word
was "friends." And we thank you for it.
There's a uniqueness about New
Hampshire. It's different from every other
place in this country, but in many ways,
New Hampshire is kind of like the United
States in microcosm. You're a miniature
picture of what our country is. And in the
intense person-to-person campaigning on
the streets, in the stores, in shops, factory
shift lines, in your homes, later in larger
meetings, we became acquainted with the
problems of our Nation, with the hopes
and dreams and ideals of American peo-
ple, with issues which we had not previ-
ously debated, and with your own ideas.
And it would be hard for you to real-
ize who come from New Hampshire-
how much those early days of a political
campaign shape the future campaign it-
self and the attitudes that I brought into
the White House, representing you.
There's a special place in this White
House for you, and we've been looking
forward with great anticipation to this an-
niversary of your gift to me. And I want to
420
