Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 17
In pledging themselves to these objec-
tives, they invite all states to join with
them in this spirit of cooperation to work
actively for peace, human rights, partici-
patory government, and a just and
equitable international economic system.
NOTE: The multilateral discussions were held
in the Panama Room at the El Panama Hotel.
The first meeting took place on the evening of
June 16, and the second meeting was held on
the morning of June 17.
Visit to Panama
Remarks at Fort Clayton. June 17, 1978
Distinguished officials who have operated
and defended the canal, who have per-
formed superb service for our Govern-
ment, who are an integral and admired
part of the American community:
I come here with a sense of history, a
sense of appreciation for what you have
accomplished and are accomplishing for
our country, a sense of gratitude to you.
A few months ago as I was visiting
with David McCulloch, who wrote the
book "The Path Between the Seas," I
began to sense and to feel the enthu-
siasm for the extraordinary engineering
achievement that the canal represents.
I've just returned from a flight over
the canal to see the beautiful operation
of it. I've been looking forward to a
chance to visit Fort Clayton, Miraflores
Locks, so that I could see firsthand the
professionalism and the dedication that
make this canal work and which keep
the canal secure.
I'm very proud of those of you who
belong to the various military compo-
nents of the Southern Command. I was
in the Navy for 11 years. And as you well
know, we depended on the Army to take
care of the canal so that we could go
from one [applause]-
Through a long and difficult period
you've maintained a very high level of
preparedness for the defense of the canal
and for the protection of American lives
and property and for the representation
of the spirit and character of the United
States in the most superb way. It's your
effort and your training that have kept
Americans assured of our strength and
our security here, and I thank you for it.
Those of you who are civilians, both
Americans and Panamanians, have con-
tributed immeasurably to the operation of
the canal. My life would be easier if every
Government employee showed the same
consistent combination of efficiency and
talent as your group does, and we all
appreciate this superb performance. You
always do your job and you do it well.
For many years, the legal arrangements
governing the Panama Canal and the
zone have been a source of contention
and argument and dispute between the
United States and Panama. Most people
who looked at the situation agreed that
some change, of some kind, was called
for. I think most of you who live in the
canal agree with that statement. We dis-
agreed not about whether there should
be changes, but what those changes ought
to be.
As you know, my predecessors in the
White House, President Ford, President
Nixon, President Johnson, President Ken-
nedy, understood that some changes had
to be made. I know each of you has known
you were defending American interests
here in the Canal Zone, and I respect
your convictions and your spirit and your
loyalty to your country, even though we
did not always agree about the best
course to take.
The Senate of the United States has
acted, and the treaties are now a fact.
I'm not here to justify them, or to sug-
gest that if you understood the treaties
better that you would like them. I know
1125
