Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Japanese, on the other hand, have in-
sisted on having a positive trade balance
of their own, which aggravates the situa-
tion that I have just described to you.
Because of that, there has been some
inevitable adjustments downward in the
value of the dollar as it relates to the yen,
the deutsche mark, and some other major
trade currencies used.
We have three basic principles or fac-
tors that will be affecting the value of the
dollar in 1978. In each instance, there's
a substantial improvement in prospect
this year compared to last year. We will
not be increasing the quantity of oil we
import during 1978. We were rapidly in-
creasing oil imports during 1977. That's
one factor.
The second one is that last year we had
a growth rate in our economy of about 3
percent higher than the average of our
major trading partners, which meant
that as our economy grows and prospers
and our people are at work, we are able
to buy their goods easier than they can
buy our goods. We are more prosperous.
We can purchase things. They are less
prosperous. They have to sell things. That
3 percent difference is going to be re-
duced substantially this year. We'll still
have a pretty strong growth rate, not quite
as strong as last year. They'll have a
better growth rate.
And the third thing is that because of
varying factors, an attempt to control in-
flation by the Federal Reserve and other
factors, that the interest paid on invest-
ments in our country this year will be
higher than last year, which means that
other nations who own currencies will
have a tendency to invest them in the
United States, more this year than last
year. So, there will be an inevitable cor-
rection, I think, of the value of the
dollar.
What we would do is try to intercede
in the market only to compensate for dis-
orderly marketing circumstances. We
don't say that the dollar should be equal
to 2.02 deutsche marks and try to hold
that, you know, no matter what the world
situation does. There's got to be some
fluidity, some natural adjustment in the
value of the dollar.
We're trying to stabilize it as best we
can against disorderly marketing. And
those three factors that I've described
to you will bring about restoration of
the acknowledgement of the true value
of the dollar this year compared to last
year.
TAX CREDITS FOR COLLEGE TUITION
Q. Mr. President, several weeks ago
you went on record as being opposed to
the tuition tax credit, and you have also
come out in favor of increased Govern-
ment loans to students. And you said that
the tuition tax credit, I believe, and both
the increased Government grants would
be inefficient and wasteful. Could you
elaborate more on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I will not ac-
cept, to the limit of my ability as Presi-
dent, both the tuition tax credit, which is
very expensive and not focused well and
is really a boon to the very affluent fami-
lies, on the one hand, plus the proposal
that we made. There's a narrowly
focused, I think a very well focused, pro-
posal that we put forward to increase
direct grants to students when they come
from low- and middle-income families,
to authorize an increase in loans to stu-
dents and families at low, middle income,
and a little bit higher level of income,
and work-study programs for students.
This will increase the number of stu-
dents eligible for loans, grants, and work-
study from about 3 million this year to
5 million when our program is put into
effect. The cost of this will be less than
one-half of the so-called income tax
credits. It will also give aid to families
462
