Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 24
Technology `propriations, available or to be made
Science, Engineering, and Technology
Advisory Panel. The Panel members shall
include representatives of such Executive
agencies and such officials of State and
local governments as the Director may
designate.
SEC. 3. The Federal science, engineer-
ing, and technology functions under Sec-
tion 303(a) and (b) (1) of the Act (42
U.S.C. 6633(a) and (b)(1)), which
were transferred to the President (see
Section 1(b) of this Order), are dele-
gated to the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy: Except
that, those functions concerned with re-
organization, including Federal-State li-
aison, are delegated to the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, who
shall be provided advice and assistance
thereon by the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy.
SEC. 4. The science, engineering, and
technology and related activities functions
under Section 401 (e) of the Act (42
U.S.C. 6651 (e)), which were transferred
to the President (see Section 1(b) of this
Order), are delegated to the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology
Policy.
SEC. 5. There is hereby established the
Federal Coordinating Council for Sci-
ence, Engineering, and Technology. The
Council shall be composed of the Direc-
tor of the Office of Science and Technol-
ogy Policy, who shall be Chairman, and
representatives of such other Executive
agencies designated by the Chairman.
The head of an agency so designated
shall designate an appropriate individual
to serve on the Council. The Council
shall advise and assist the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy
in the performance of those functions
delegated under Section 4 of this Order.
SEC. 6. The records, property, per-
sonnel, and unexpended balances of ap-
available, which relate to the functions
transferred, reassigned, or redelegated by
this Order are hereby transferred to the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, the Director of the Office
of Science and Technology Policy, or the
Director of the National Science Foun-
dation, as appropriate.
SEC. 7. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make
such determinations, issue such orders,
and take all actions necessary or appro-
priate to effectuate the transfers or reas-
signments provided by this Order, in-
cluding the transfer of funds, records,
property, and personnel.
SEC. 8. This Order shall be effective on
February 26, 1978.
The White House,
February 24, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:12 p.m., February 24, 1978]
Environmental Evaluation
Functions
Executive Order 12040. February 24, 1978
RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF CERTAIN
ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION FUNC-
TIONS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and laws of the
United States of America, including Sec-
tion 7 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of
1977 (42 FR
FR 56101 (October 21,
1977)), and as President of the United
States of America, in order to effectuate
the transfer of certain environmental
quality functions, it is hereby ordered as
follows:
413
