Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ethnic and cultural background, in reli-
gious belief, and even in language and
place of origin. What unites us in our
diversity is a common commitment to
the Constitution and the laws, and the
liberties they represent. These are the basis
of our very Nationhood.
This year we once again set aside a
special day to honor our commitment to
the rule of law. For this year's observance,
the American Bar Association has selected
the theme of "Your Access to Justice." It
is a most appropriate one, for it asks us to
reflect not only upon how our legal system
can be made more responsive to our needs,
but also upon the nature of justice itself.
Access to justice involves issues that lie
beyond the scope of any single group. The
law is not the private property of lawyers,
nor is justice the exclusive province of
judges and juries. In the final analysis,
true justice is not a matter of courts and
law books, but of a commitment in each of
us to liberty and to mutual respect. Ac-
cordingly, the efforts of the legal profes-
sion to elicit the help and advice of all
Americans are to be commended.
To encourage the people of the United
States to consider their individual respon-
sibilities with respect to our legal system,
the Congress, by joint resolution approved
April 7, 1961 (75 Stat. 43, 36 U.S.C. 164)
has requested the President to issue a
proclamation calling upon the American
people to observe the first day of May of
each year as Law Day, U.S.A.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, ask all Americans to celebrate Mon-
day, May 1, 1978, as Law Day, U.S.A.,
and to honor the principle of equal jus-
tice under law. I ask all public officials to
display the flag of the United States on
all public buildings on that day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:05 p.m., April 25, 1978]
National Architectural Barrier
Awareness Week, 1978
Proclamation 4566. April 25, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Physical access is often the key to
whether people can enjoy their rights
and freedoms, and exercise their respon-
sibilities. Every day, however, millions of
elderly and handicapped Americans are
denied access to places of employment,
houses of worship, shops, schools, public
services, recreational areas and many
other facilities that other Americans take
for granted.
If all Americans are to have true ac-
cess, we must remove the architectural
barriers in our society that block some of
our people from full participation and
self-reliance. We must also remove the
barriers of attitude and custom that have
prevented many people from doing what
they can.
The Congress expressed its commit-
ment to the removal of physical barriers
from Federal buildings by enacting the
Architectural and Transportation Bar-
riers Act in 1968. The Architectural and
Transportation Barriers Compliance
Board, created to enforce that act, will
soon launch a national media campaign
about barriers using the slogan, "Access
America."
This Administration has taken steps to
improve the access of handicapped citi-
774
