May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And we've tried to address these issues
as strongly and as openly and as aggres-
sively as is humanly capable to do. In ad-
dition to that, we've tried to bring some
order out of chaos of some of the prob-
lems in the Federal Government—with
welfare refrom, the creation of a Depart-
ment of Energy, to have a comprehensive
energy policy for the first time, to put the
civil service back in the proper working
order, and all of these things cause some
disturbance in the political structure of
our country.
I feel very sure that almost all of the
attemps that we have made are in the
best interests of the American people.
And I believe that as they are under-
stood, that the present low rating in the
polls will be improving. So, I am hopeful
that my popularity in the polls will go up.
I think any politician would feel the same,
but I'm satisfied with the administra-
tion's progress so far. I've also found a
very good reception on this trip to the
West-better, I migh say, than the last
time I was out here.
Let me get Ann [Ann Compton, ABC
News].
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, this week you and
some members of your administration
have indicated there is not a new SALT
compromise reached when Secretary
Vance was in Moscow. Could you tell us
what the United States has on the
negotiating table in terms of SALT
negotiations and whether the chances are
better than remote that you and Presi-
dent Brezhnev would meet this summer?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not dis-
cussed any time for President Brezhnev to
come here to the United States to meet
with me. We extended him an invitation
in the early days of my administration,
because the last visit had been by Presi-
dent Ford to Vladivostok in the Soviet
Union. I think the essence of it is that he
is likely to come over here when we see a
SALT agreement imminent, so that he
and I, perhaps, can resolve the last, very
few remaining issues that the negotiators
can't resolve themselves.
Our determination is that any SALT
agreement would protect the ability of
the United States to defend itself against
any conceivable attack. We would also
insist upon the maintenance of equivalent
capability, destructive power, between the
nuclear armaments of our country and
the Soviet Union. And on top of that, any
SALT agreement would have to provide
for adequate proof, verifiability of the
other nation carrying out the terms of the
agreement.
This is a very complicated subject. We
have made a lot of progress in the last
year, and my hope is that we can reach an
agreement this year. But there are still sev-
eral issues that have not been resolved.
Q. Have you put number figures, can
you put number figures on what the
United States is proposing at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think the Ameri-
can proposal has been revealed 4 or 5
months ago with the number of MIRV's
that can be kept, the number of land-
based missiles that can be kept by each
side, and the total number of missiles of
all kinds that can be kept. That's our
proposal, but we've not reached agree-
ment on all those matters, because they
are interrelated. Any yielding on our part
involving one of those figures would have
to result in an equivalent advantage to
our country by the Soviets yielding on a
comparable figure.
We have not reached any point yet for
revealing the details of our recent discus-
sions with the Soviet Union.
HELEN THOMAS [United Press Inter-
national]. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-first news con-
ference began at 7:30 p.m. in the Ballroom at
the Portland Hilton Hotel. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
852
