Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 29
of the timber products, but also will try
to increase the amount of timber that is
processed in this country and ship a
smaller portion of timber overseas in log
form than has been the case in the past.
unique, and some of them are long over-
due in being addressed: grazing lands,
basic water policy, the problems of im-
pact aid for strip mining and other min-
eral harvesting-we proposed legislation,
now, to the Congress for non-energy type
mining operations, which I think will
add stability to it-how to deal with the
acreage limitation on federally subsidized,
irrigated lands.
We will have a definitive analysis,
that's been underway now since I've been
in office, for publication in June, and the
final decision in December. But I've
asked in my anti-inflation speech before
the American Society of Newspaper Edi-
tors that this report to me on how we can
rapidly increase the rate of production
on timberlands, to be on my desk within_sial—and that's the reason that previous
30 days of that time.
PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO COLORADO
Q. Mr. President, your trip to Denver
next week has been compared by some as
a trip to a foreign country. Could you
briefly assess your own views on your re-
lationship with the West and, perhaps,
comment on the solar energy package I
understand you might address on your
visit Wednesday?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I will. This will
be my second trip to Denver since I've
been President. The last time, I had a
public hearing there, primarily related to
water projects, as you know, which I
thought was very good and constructive,
and, in the process, invited the Western
Governors to come to Denver to meet
with me for that purpose. I'll be making
an additional stop in Colorado, as well.
This will be, coincidentally, on Sun Day,
and I will be making a speech, relatively
brief, on the use of solar power in the
future.
Colorado has been blessed, I think, by
the decision that I made to place a major
research facility for solar power in Colo-
rado. But I look on this as a friendly
visit with the prospect for reception to be
good. We've devoted a lot of time to
Western problems because they are
These are matters that have been in
contention for decades or even genera-
tions. And although they are controver-
Presidents have not been eager to address
them-I think they should be addressed
frankly and forcefully and fairly, and let
those dissident arguments be laid to rest
once and for all. So, I look forward to my
trip, and it's not the first one to Denver,
even since I've been in office.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, Anthony Sampson, in
"Arms Bazaar," quotes Kenneth Gal-
braith as saying that, in effect, the United
States caused the India-Pakistan war by
selling arms to Pakistan. In fact, they
sold to both sides. It created an im-
balance in that area, and that's what led
to the war. Now, changing the balance in
the Middle East, will it not likewise in-
evitably cause another war? Isn't it a
repetition of a road to disaster if
you lump
these sales together, to sell both to the
Arab countries and to Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
our arms policy in the Mideast has been
to sell moderate supplies of arms to all
of our close allies there and to give an
extra attention to the needs of Israel,
pretty much as defined by Israel.
I think it's obvious that the Israeli mili-
tary strength is overwhelming in the air.
We have longstanding commitments
made to the Saudi Arabians, dating back
807
