May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ern part of California into the refineries
in Texas-Louisiana-Alabama area. This
would let us move that oil where it is
needed.
We have now been required by law to
take that surplus oil and to transport it
to the gulf coast through the Panama
Canal, which is a fairly expensive proc-
ess and which works a financial hardship
on the State of Alaska because they have
to share in the transportation costs along
with the oil companies.
I could not presently route that oil to
Japan. The law prohibits it at this point.
I believe it was the law that set up the
Alaskan pipeline that said that the Alas-
kan oil had to be used on the mainland of
our country. But this is one of the options
that we are considering. I think a lot of it
depends on how rapidly we can turn the
Sohio line around and transport oil across
the southern part of our country to the
presently existing refineries.
If that should fall through as a proposi-
tion, then I think trade for some of the
surplus oil on a temporary basis with
Japan would be one of the options that
we would consider very seriously. I just
don't know yet.
Yes, sir?
Q. Mr. President, my name-
THE PRESIDENT. The Japanese want it,
by the way.
MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Stephen
Balburg, and I'm concerned about mental
health-related issues in our country. I
know that your wife is very much in-
volved in mental health throughout the
country. I'm especially concerned about
possible budgetary cuts or additions with-
in the next fiscal
year. Could you com-
ment on what the future is of mental
health in regards to those concerns in the
next year or two?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Within the past
week I received a report from the mental
health study commission that was headed
by my wife, who's honorary chairman. She
was a very active chairperson, partici-
pated in public hearings all over the
country, had, I think, 21 people to work
with her, representing all elements of the
mental health care problem in our coun-
try; had a very fine professional doctor,
Dr. Tom Bryant, to help her with it.
It's a good report. It advocates a fur-
ther move toward community health care
centers, where mental patients of all kinds
could live as well as possible within their
own homes or either near their own
homes, to continue to cut down the popu-
lation of mental patients who are in hos-
pitals, mental hospitals, because we know
that once they are there, it is an extreme-
ly expensive thing for the taxpayers to
support them, costing anywhere from
$30,000 to $50,000 per patient. To take
care of a patient under normal circum-
stances in a mental health treatment
center would cost maybe one-fifth that
much or even less.
In Georgia, under my wife's leader-
ship again and with me giving her some
aid as Governor, we established a large
number of these community health treat-
ment centers. They were supervised by
psychiatrists or professional psychologists.
But in the process we used a lot of parents
or people who had, for instance, a re-
tarded child or a child with some other
mental defect. They worked under the
supervision there in the center of maybe
retired schoolteachers or those who quit
teaching to come to work in this kind of
environment. Existing social workers
joined in to help, volunteers helped, and
there was a revitalization of the lives of
some of those patients who were quite old,
who had been scorned, hidden in the
closets or in the basements of homes, or
dwelt all their lives, perhaps, in a mental
institution.
878
