Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
Administration in numerous areas, and I
plan to make certain that this year our ef-
forts on behalf of civil rights and equal
opportunities continue unabated. Our
Nation's concern for human rights must
be heard as clearly at home as abroad.
Educational Opportunities
In 1977, my Administration vigorously
attacked educational discrimination on
the elementary, secondary and higher
education levels. A major suit was pursued
to ensure non-discrimination at the uni-
versity level. At the same time, we rec-
ognized and reaffirmed the importance
of affirmative action programs to ensure
equal opportunities at educational institu-
tions through our brief in the Bakke case.
Our efforts to eliminate discrimination
and promote affirmative action programs,
relying on flexible goals rather than on
quotas, will continue in full force.
Handicapped
HEW issued regulations and guidelines
to implement legislation guaranteeing
equal access to programs receiving finan-
cial assistance from HEW. This year the
other Cabinet Departments will issue
similar regulations, so that the rights of
handicapped Americans will begin to be
fully observed. We are providing a $50
million loan fund to States and institu-
tions to enable them to comply with these
regulations and to eliminate barriers
which prevent access by our handicapped
citizens to federally assisted programs
and activities. We are proposing a major
increase in funding under the Education
of all Handicapped Children Act.
Equal Opportunity
This past year the Administration re-
affirmed Executive Order 11375, which
prohibits discrimination on the basis
the basis
of sex in Federal employment. In addi-
tion, I voluntarily placed the Executive
Office of the President under Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act. This year, as part
of our effort to eliminate sex discrimina-
tion in unemployment and education, I
will continue to urge the ratification of
the Equal Rights Amendment to the
Constitution.
This past year the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission was reorga-
nized to increase its efficiency. As a result,
the Commission made substantial prog-
ress on reducing its backlog of complaints.
With the more than 40% increase in
funding that will be proposed in the 1979
budget, the EEOC will be able to fur-
ther reduce its backlog. Early this year I
will
propose to Congress a reorganization
plan concerning equal opportunity en-
forcement which will strengthen the
EEOC.
Anti-Foreign Boycott
I strongly supported, and signed, leg-
islation to prohibit American participa-
tion in secondary economic boycotts by
foreign countries. That law will be strictly
enforced by my Administration this year
through the regulations just issued by the
Department of Commerce.
Minority Business
Last year, we started a number of pro-
grams to make more opportunities avail-
able for minority-owned businesses. That
effort will be continued and strengthened
this year:
-We are half way toward our two-
year goal of $2 billion in Federal pur-
chases of services and goods from minor-
ity-owned firms. We will reach that goal
by the end of the year.
-We will raise the goal for Federal
deposits in minority-owned banks above
the 1977 level of $100 billion.
111
