Mar. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Rosalynn joins me in sending our very
best wishes for a swift and complete
recovery.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the letter was released at
St. Simons Island, Ga.
Visit of Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 21, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's with great pleasure
that I, on behalf of the people of the
United States, welcome to our country
again Prime Minister Begin of the great
and courageous state of Israel.
Our mutual commitment to the search
for a permanent peace in the Middle East
is exemplified by the fact that this is our
third meeting personally within the last
year. In 2 months we will all be celebrat-
ing the 30th anniversary of the founding
of the nation of Israel.
We have a commitment to the preser-
vation of Israel as a nation, to the security
of Israel, the right of the Israeli people,
who have suffered so much, to live in
peace that is absolutely permanent and
unshakable.
The ties that bind the people of the
United States and the people of Israel
together, the ties of blood, kinship, ties of
history, ties of common religious beliefs,
the dream, centuries old, of the founding
of the new nation of Israel have been real-
ized. But the dream that the new nation
of Israel should be guaranteed a right to
live in peace has not yet been realized for
its people and those who love Israel
around the world.
This dream has been prevented by the
shackles of potential war, and have pre-
vented the pursuit of justice and the re-
duction in human suffering which has so
long been a characteristic of Jews every-
where.
Since 1967 we've been working in a
concerted way with the leaders of the
Israeli Government, trying to bring the
prospects and the realization of peace. For
10 years, under the broad scope of United
Nations Resolution 242, this search has
been going on in a concerted way.
And last November, with the dramatic
welcoming of President Sadat to Jeru-
salem by Prime Minister Begin and the
Israeli people, the hopes of the world
were raised.
Those bright days of new opportunity
have now been clouded over, and the re-
cent cowardly and unjustified attack by
terrorists on innocent civilians in Israel
have resulted in the loss of hundreds of
lives and tens of thousands of people who
are now homeless.
We still hope and pray for an end to
the disputes which would almost instan-
taneously transform the lives of the people
of the Middle East into ones of hope,
friendship, trade, prosperity, brotherhood,
and peace.
Those hopes have not and will not be
abandoned. Israel is now, militarily and
in many other ways, stronger than ever
before in history, and with this strength in
physical terms and with this strength of
the leadership of Israel rests the prospects
for a resolution of the difficulties that
have so long divided the people of the
Middle East.
Peace can come from a guarantee of
security, and our staunch friendship for
Israel will continue to be a major element
in this foundation for progress.
We welcome this morning Prime Min-
ister Begin, a man of destiny who has had
thrust upon
his able shoulders the respon-
sibilities for the future of his own people,
of the people in the Middle East, and in-
544
