Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 29
tance of withdrawal on all fronts pursuant
to Resolution 242 and the resolution of all
aspects of the Palestinian question.
They noted their meeting coincided
with the opening of the Seventh Session
of the United Nations Conference on Law
of the Sea, which held its first substantive
meeting in Caracas four years ago. They
agreed that it is essential that the confer-
ence reach agreements which are just and
fair for all countries.
The two Presidents dedicated an im-
portant portion of their time to the con-
sideration of the idea already agreed to in
Washington in 1977 concerning the de-
velopment program for the Caribbean
basin. They examined the role played in
the preliminary studies by the World Bank
as well as by other international institu-
tions. Even as they manifested their satis-
faction with the process already under
way, they agreed that it is urgent to bring
this idea to fruition and to promote coop-
eration between the countries of that area
and the rest of Latin America in such a
way as to help the states of the Caribbean
in their effort for a viable development
which satisfies their own aspirations.
The themes concerning Latin Amer-
ican economic integration were the ob-
ject of particular attention. The Presi-
dents examined the progress of the
Andean Pact, its important program
agreements signed in 1977, the function-
ing of LAFTA and the progress of SELA.
Both Presidents recognized the important
cooperative effort of the countries of the
area reflected in the different programs of
regional integration and manifested their
sympathy and support for these programs.
With relation to nuclear non-prolifera-
tion the two Presidents took note of the
necessity for implementing greater safe-
guards and making greater use of nuclear
energy for peaceful purposes once the
risks, not yet resolved, are taken care of.
The Presidents gave special importance to
the entry into force of the Treaty of
Tlatelolco, and noted with satisfaction
the progress in the International Nuclear
Fuel Cycle Evaluation.
The Presidents exchanged ideas about
arms restraint in Latin America. They
expressed their disquiet with growing
arms purchases and in the resurgence of
old conflicts. They agreed that it is urgent
to restrict the transfer of conventional
weapons as was envisaged in the 1974
Ayacucho Declaration.
They discussed the United Nations
Special Session on Disarmament and
agreed that the Session should provide a
stimulus to further concrete disarmament
efforts.
Insofar as bilateral matters are con-
cerned they confirmed the importance of
cooperation in the field of energy and the
continuing participation of Venezuelan
petroleum exports in the United States
market. They considered useful the re-
sults of the meeting held at the beginning
of March between the Venezuelan Min-
ister of Mines and Energy and the U.S.
Secretary of Energy pointing out the pos-
sibility of cooperation for the develop-
ment of heavy crudes. The two Presidents
reaffirmed their desire to continue con-
sultations both at the technical level and
at the political level on energy matters as
well as to establish periodic consultations
on economic and commercial matters.
The two Presidents took note with sat-
isfaction of the signature during the visit
of the Treaty on Maritime Boundaries
between the two countries and a Memo-
randum of Understanding on Narcotics
and of the prospects of negotiating other
agreements, reflecting the spirit of coop-
eration existing between the two coun-
tries.
The two Chiefs of State expressed their
complete personal satisfaction with the
results of their conversations and took
note that this state visit, the third meet-
625
