Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
posed, and what I hope the Congress will
approve, is a combination of direct grants
to students whose families have a moder-
ate or low income, loans to students in
the low-, moderate-, and middle-income
group, and work-study programs, where
the student can receive part-time employ-
ment to help finance college education.
We will increase throughout our coun-
try the number of students who can par-
ticipate in these loans by 2 million, which
is about, almost, a 50-percent increase at
one time, if my own proposals are put
forward. They are much more narrowly
focused on the student who actually needs
help, and they are much less costly to the
Federal Government than giving a tax
credit. So, I do not favor the tax credit
proposal. I think it's ill-advised. I think
the combination of the grants, loans, and
student work programs are a much better
approach. And I will try very hard to get
the Congress to approve those this year.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Donna
Schroeder, and I am representing the
Presentation of Mary Academy in Hud-
son. My question for you this morning
is what action would the United States
take if we sign the treaties and, once the
Panamanians have control of the canal,
they close the canal to our use?
THE PRESIDENT. This will have to be
the last question.
There is no possibility of that. The
Panamanian people would be much more
inclined to want to keep the canal open
if the treaties are approved than if they
are disapproved, regardless of what the
Panamanian Government wants. Even
though they have been dissatisfied with
the terms of the present treaty, they rec-
ognize that keeping the canal open is an
important economic consideration for
them.
We want the canal to stay open, but
it's crucial to the Panamanians. The
treaties specifically say that the canal will
be kept open and available for use to
ships of all countries. And if a need or
emergency should arise, our own ships,
our warships, could go to the head of the
line, ahead of any ships, and go through
the canal expeditiously.
We retain the right to defend the canal
during this century and forever. And if
the Panamanians should close the canal,
I would take whatever action is neces-
sary to protect the canal and to keep it
open.
Let me say in closing that this has been
a very good experience for me, and I hope
it's been beneficial to you as well. The
national news media will send actually
around the world the substance of your
questions and the substance of my an-
swers.
I've never claimed to know all the an-
swers. I have very good partnership with
John Durkin and with Tom McIntyre,
with Members of the Congress and the
Senate, and I believe I also have a good
partnership with the people of America.
And I hope that you will join me in being
obviously and openly critical of the de-
fects in our political system.
But I hope you'll be equally deter-
mined to point out to each other and to
the world the fine aspects of our free en-
terprise system, the soundness of our Con-
stitution and the principles on which our
country was founded, and remind each
other and the rest of the world that you
and I still live in the greatest country on
Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in
the gymnasium at the Nashua Senior High
School.
383
