Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 7
in Normandy Beach, on the site of the
loss of 2,000 American lives in just a few
hours in Omaha, and to see a tremendous
American flag and a tremendous French
tri-color flag flying over the graves of over
9,300 Americans who died for the liberty
of France and Europe and for our own
freedom was a great experience for me.
So, I've learned a lot. We were received
with open arms and friendship, even
among nations who in the past have been
kind of cool toward us, and I was able to
see very clearly what the United States of
America means to those people around
the world.
When we are clean and decent they
are pleased. When we are honest they are
relieved. When we are strong they're pro-
tected, and when we extend the hand of
friendship they respond with an open
heart.
I was proud of the friendship we re-
ceived and the friendship we left behind
us, but at all times I was even more proud
of the people that I represent.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:14 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
The President's Overseas Trip
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on Board Air Force One en Route to the
United States. January 6, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I think I will answer
your questions for a while.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS ON THE TRIP
Q. Starting out, Mr. President, would
you give us your assessment of the trip
and what you think you accomplished?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wanted to
project the image of a nation that stands
for what is right and decent and good,
strengthen the concept of democracy,
both in the developing and the developed
nations, try to make progress on resolving
the Middle Eastern dispute. And one
thing that evolved everywhere I went
was an expression of interest or concern
on the part of the foreign leaders about
how we were going to address the energy
question.
Additionally, of course, I wanted to
strengthen, if possible, the friendship in
varying degrees that existed originally be-
tween our own Nation and the other
countries that we visited.
I had never been before to India or
the Middle East-or the countries that we
went to in the Middle East. These were
the four or five things that I had in mind.
I think we did a fairly good job.
Q. I know that's what you intended
to do, but do you think you accomplished
those? What, in particular, do you think
you have accomplished?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is no doubt
that the friendship between ourselves and
Poland, ourselves and India, ourselves and
Saudi Arabia, ourselves and Iran, our-
selves and Egypt, ourselves and France
and Belgium were enhanced. And this
was accomplished.
I believe that we made some progress
in the Middle East. So far as I know, there
are no differences that separate us from
Sadat, for instance. We reemphasized the
same basic principles that we proposed
6 or 8 months ago to the Arab and the
Israeli leaders. In this respect, the trip
was successful.
I made two or three major speeches,
too: one on democracy as it relates to the
developing nations in the world under
changing circumstances; the other one,
democracy as it relates to the developed
or industrialized nations in the world in
changing circumstances. It's hard to say
whether the speech has made any impact
or not.
41
