Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
We've had town meetings now, since
I've been President, in Massachusetts and
in Mississippi. We'll have an hour and a
half. I'd like to make a brief opening
statement on a subject that is important
to you and then I'll answer questions. I'll
take the last question about 20 minutes
after 9.
ENERGY
Last year, New England suffered the
worst winter ever recorded, and this win-
ter may be just as harsh. Certainly, the
blizzard of 1978, just 10 days ago, will go
down in history along with the terrible
blizzard of 1888.
You are expert in an average year in
contending with freezing weather and
winds of gale force and in handling large
snowfall. And yet in some ways you are
more vulnerable to winter than any other
section of the country. You don't have ac-
cess to cheap supplies of natural gas or
oil, and you are heavily dependent on im-
ported energy, primarily oil. It costs you
more to heat your homes and your fac-
tories here than it does anywhere else in
the 48 States in this country-Alaska
maybe a little more. But even now Alaska
has cheaper supplies of oil. Your jobs are
in danger of leaving Maine, some of
them, because to provide a certain
amount of heat, the energy costs you
about 45 percent more than the average
place in our country.
No part of the Nation has suffered
more from a lack of a comprehensive na-
tional energy plan than has New Eng-
land. I've tried my best to close that gap,
to correct the unfairness in energy distri-
bution and energy prices. The House and
Senate have both passed now a version of
our energy proposal, and the conference
committees are hard at work.
Let me tell you some of the ways, very
briefly, that this energy package would
make your own lives more prosperous and
your own future more sure.
At present, natural gas produced and
sold within a State like Louisiana, Texas,
Alabama, Mississippi, Oklahoma brings a
higher price than gas exported to another
State. The energy bill would create a sin-
gle price so that producers would no
longer be discouraged from marketing
their natural gas in other regions like
your own State.
The energy bill sets efficiency standards
for motor vehicles, for appliances, and for
buildings, to save energy. The bill gives
tax credits to homeowners and business
leaders who insulate their buildings and
save energy. For those with incomes so
low that they don't pay taxes, the energy
bill establishes a program to weatherize
the houses of the poor at no cost to them.
Local utilities will be required to work
with their customers on energy audits to
see where energy is being lost and where
economies can be effected. Energy bills
can be cut down even more by use of solar
energy to meet part of your heating needs.
The energy bill also encourages this by
offering tax credits to those who install
solar energy equipment.
The bill provides research and develop-
ment funds to study ways in which we can
make better use of energy sources that are
renewable, the ones that come from the
Sun. One of these, obviously, is wood,
which has traditionally been an important
fuel throughout much of New England
and also in my own home State of Geor-
gia. But wood can be used in many new
and innovative ways, and we aim to ex-
plore those ways by research and develop-
ment.
I don't mean to suggest that any of
these things can come about easily or
overnight. The problem of energy has
been ignored too long for us to expect any
quick solution. But we need to start down
the road, or we will never bring our de-
345
