Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion to both the public and, if necessary,
to the mechanism by which employees'
rights are protected and, on an appeal
basis, to the courts themselves.
SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN THE
HORN OF AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, this is from Warren
Rogers of the Trib of New York. With the
Soviets active now in the Horn of Africa,
and with other strains in U.S.-Soviet rela-
tions, what hope do you have for early
resumption of SALT talks?
THE PRESIDENT. The SALT talks have
never been discontinued or delayed. They
are ongoing now, and the Soviet involve-
ment in the Horn has not interrupted that
process. We do not initiate any Govern-
ment policy that has a linkage between
the Soviet involvement in Ethiopia-
Somalia dispute on the one hand and
SALT or the comprehensive test ban ne-
gotiations on the other.
Obviously any negotiation, if concluded
successfully at the executive level, would
have to be ratified by the Congress, who
would be heavily influenced by opinion
of the American people. And the fact that
the Soviets have over-armed to the teeth,
the Somalians who then use Soviet weap-
ons to invade Ethiopia and now are over-
arming Ethiopia and directing their mili-
tary effort has caused a threat to peace in
the Horn area of Africa.
We have added our own importunities
for a peaceful resolution and our own
caution comments to the Soviets. They
have assured me directly through Foreign
Minister Gromyko that the Ethiopians
would not cross the Somalia border. We
have sent a delegation to meet with Pres-
ident Mengistu, who assured me person-
ally that they would not cross the Somalia
border.
We have three hopes there that we
trust and certainly hope that the Soviets
will honor.
One is a Somalian withdrawal from
the territories which they occupy in east-
ern Ethiopia, in the Ogaden area; sec-
ondly, a removal from Ethiopia of Cuban
and Soviet troops; third, a lessening of
the tensions that exist between those coun-
tries and an honoring of the sometimes
arbitrarily drawn international bound-
aries in Africa.
And we would hope that the OAU, the
Organization of African Unity, would be-
come more successful in their efforts to
resolve this dispute in a peaceful way. But
at this time, Somalia is the invading na-
tion. We have refused to send any weap-
ons into that area or permit third coun-
tries who bought weapons from us to
transfer them into that area, and I think
our policy is completely accurate.
The Soviets' violating of these princi-
ples would be a cause of concern to me,
would lessen the confidence of the Amer-
ican people in the word and peaceful in-
tentions of the Soviet Union, would make
it more difficult to ratify a SALT agree-
ment or comprehensive test ban agree-
ment if concluded, and therefore, the two
are linked because of actions by the So-
viets. We don't initiate the linkage.
U.S.-BRITISH AIR SERVICES AGREEMENT
Q. Mr. President, we have several ques-
tions related to the Braniff Airways low-
cost service between Dallas and London,
one from Ross Mark of the Daily Express
of London, and another from Roy Bode of
the Dallas Times-Herald.
First of all, have you received a rec-
ommendation from the CAB for retalia-
tory action, and do you plan to take such
action against the British carrier? And
secondly, do you believe that the British
Government is abiding by its commit-
ments in the Bermuda II airline
agreements?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not received a
recommendation from the CAB at this
442
