Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We believe that there are certain prin-
ciples, fundamentally, which must be ob-
served before a just and a comprehensive
peace can be achieved. First, true peace
must be based on normal relations among
the parties to the peace. Peace means
more than just an end to belligerency.
Second, there must be withdrawal by
Israel from territories occupied in 1967
and agreement on secure and recognized
borders for all parties in the context of
normal and peaceful relations in accord-
ance with United Nations Resolutions
242 and 338. And third, there must be a
resolution of the Palestinian problem in
all its aspects. The problem must recog-
nize the legitimate rights of the Palestin-
ian people and enable the Palestinians
to participate in the determination of
their own future.
Some flexibility is always needed to en-
sure successful negotiations and the res-
olution of conflicting views. We know that
the mark of greatness among leaders is to
consider carefully the views of others and
the greater benefits that can result among
the people of all nations which can come
from a successful search for peace.
Mr. President, our consultations this
morning have reconfirmed our common
commitment to the fundamentals which
will, with God's help, make 1978 the year
for permanent peace in the Middle East.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:15 a.m. at
Aswan Airport.
Following their remarks, the President
boarded Air Force One for the flight to Paris.
During the flight, he telephoned Israeli Prime
Minister Menahem Begin to discuss the talks
held with President Sadat and other leaders
concerning the Middle East.
Paris, France
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
January 4, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, distin-
guished members of the French Govern-
ment, people of France:
I am delighted to be here in Paris, the
Queen of Cities, and to make my second
visit to France, whose intellectual and
cultural parentage of the United States
has been exceeded only by the nation
whose language I now speak.
I have had the privilege of meeting
with President Giscard d'Estaing in Lon-
don and of welcoming Prime Minister
Barre to the White House this past year.
Their advice and knowledge, especially
on international, political, and economic
matters of concern to both our nations,
has been very helpful.
As your President said, the relationship
between our people is special and rare
because it has largely been an alliance of
ideals. Two hundred years ago, leaders in
both our nations helped each other to a
definition of a revolutionary principle-
that citizens possess certain natural rights
which stood higher than the claims of
power of any state.
In their time, the Declaration of the
Rights of Man and the Declaration of In-
dependence turned the world upside
down, and they are still the bedrock of
our own democratic systems of govern-
ment and of the demands for human
rights, which is being heard with increas-
ing intensity throughout the world.
But our alliance has embodied more
than ideals. Americans will forever re-
member the crucial assistance which La-
fayette and the French nation gave us
during those painful and dangerous days
of our own national birth. It was with
the same spirit of common purpose that
20
