Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I invited both sides to come to the
White House, which they did, and the
union expanded their negotiating team
from six members to nine members to try
to bring in some of those who did not
agree with the first settlement, to more
closely assure that when another settle-
ment was reached the miners would ac-
cept it. Now we are keeping the bargain-
ing council in an adjacent room to the
negotiators themselves, and there's a con-
stant interrelationship of communications
with them.
But I believe that all of the negotiators
and the bargaining council, on behalf of
the union, are negotiating in good faith.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, Joshua Resnek, the
Chelsea Record, Chelsea, Massachusetts.
Earlier you said that the machinery of
our economy is sound despite shocks.
However, shortly before the American
Revolution, the great economist Adam
Smith wrote about governments like our
own which incessantly spend far more
than they raise in taxes and which, as a
result of such practices, are doomed to in-
evitable bankruptcy.
First, I'd like to ask you if you
agree with economic reasoning like Mr.
Smith's. And second, will your adminis-
tration continue to spend moneys it is
clearly incapable of raising?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my goal, as you
know, is to balance the budget. This year
we are faced with a deficit that's about
$15 or $20 billion higher than it
would have been because we're trying to
give a tax break, tax reduction, to the
American people. In every instance, you
have to make a judgment on that.
One of the reasons that we are giving
the tax reduction is because the taxes are
too high; another one is that it would re-
sult in a stimulated economy, a million
more people at work and paying taxes
rather than on the Federal dole. And so
you have to make a judgment.
We have expectations, with some fairly
accurate projections, that the budget defi-
cit next year, fiscal year 1980, will be con-
siderably below 1979. And if the economy
continues to progress, then I have good
hopes that in 1981 we will reach my goal.
Obviously, I don't have complete control
over the economy. But I've not given up
in trying to carry out the principles that
Adam Smith espoused in your quote.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, on the Middle East,
arms to the Middle East, I want to ask a
kind of a philosophic question. How do
you rationalize the idea of selling weapons,
more sophisticated weapons of war, with
the argument that they would help to
bring about peace?
And does it bother you that these more
and more sophisticated weapons are being
sold to both sides and that if a new war
were to break out, it would be a more
violent confrontation than any in the
past?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, we
are not introducing new weapons into the
Middle East. F-15's are already being de-
livered into the Middle East. Also, I have
pledged myself to cut down on the volume
of weapons each succeeding year as long
as I'm in office, barring some unpredict-
able, worldwide military outbreak. This
year there will be less weapons sales than
last and this will include, of course,
year,
the Middle East.
I think it's very good for nations to turn
to us for their security needs, instead of
having to turn to the Soviet Union as they
have in the past. I'm talking specifically
about Egypt. And you have to remember
338
