Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
peace treaties between Israel and each of
its neighbors.
-The settlement must be based on all
the principles of Security Council Reso-
lution 242, including withdrawal of
Israeli armed forces from territories oc-
cupied in 1967 and the right of every
state in the area to live in peace within
secure and recognized boundaries. Reso-
lution 242 is applicable to all fronts of the
conflict.
-There can be no just and lasting
peace without resolution of the Pales-
tinian problem.
The President reaffirmed what he said
at his meeting with President Sadat in
Aswan January 4: There must be a reso-
lution of the Palestinian problem in all its
aspects; it must recognize the legitimate
rights of the Palestinian people and en-
able the Palestinians to participate in the
determination of their own future.
President Carter also reaffirmed the
longstanding United States view that
Israeli settlements in occupied territory
are contrary to international law and an
obstacle to peace, and that further set-
tlement activity would be inconsistent
with the effort to reach a peace settle-
ment.
President Sadat affirmed that the door
remains open to negotiations and that
Egypt will continue to do its part to assure
continuity in this negotiating process in
an atmosphere conducive to tangible
progress.
The two Presidents also spent some
time reviewing the current situation in
the Horn of Africa and agreed that con-
tinuing conflict and instability there are
of concern to them both. President Carter
and President Sadat have agreed to con-
sult with other countries on this matter.
Finally, the two Presidents committed
themselves to remain in close personal
touch through direct correspondence and
diplomatic channels. In this way they are
determined to ensure continuing, full
understanding between them both in the
peace process and in bilateral relations
between Egypt and the United States.
Commissioner of Patents and
Trademarks
Nomination of Donald W. Banner.
February 8, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Donald W. Banner, of
Aurora, Ill., to be Commissioner of Pat-
ents and Trademarks. He would replace
C. Marshall Dann, resigned.
Banner was born February 23, 1924, in
Chicago. He received a B.S. from Purdue
University in 1948, a J.D. from the Uni-
versity of Detroit in 1952, and a Master of
Patent Laws degree from John Marshall
Law School in 1958.
Banner has been with Borg-Warner
Corp. since 1953 and has been general
patent counsel there since 1964. He is
responsible for all matters relating to
patents, trademarks, copyrights, and li-
censing and technology exchange agree-
ments.
Banner is president-elect of the Ameri-
can Patent Law Association and vice
president of the International Patent and
Trademark Association.
Grain Set-Aside and Reserve
Programs
Announcement of Approval of the Agricultural
Programs. February 8, 1978
The President today made final a 10-
percent feed grain set-aside program for
292
