Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
the Intelligence Community. Such in-
formation may be retained only by the
agency threatened and, if appropriate,
by the United States Secret Service and
the FBI.
employee's relationship with the parent
agency.
2-305. Prohibition on Assassination.
No person employed by or acting on be-
half of the United States Government
2–3. Additional Restrictions and Limita- shall engage in, or conspire to engage in,
tions.
2-301. Tax Information. No agency
within the Intelligence Community shall
examine tax returns or tax information
except as permitted by applicable law.
2-302. Restrictions on Experimenta-
tion. No agency within the Intelligence
Community shall sponsor, contract for,
or conduct research on human subjects
except in accordance with guidelines is-
sued by the Department of Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare. The subject's in-
formed consent shall be documented as
required by those guidelines.
2-303. Restrictions on Contracting. No
agency within the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall enter into a contract or arrange-
ment for the provision of goods or serv-
ices with private companies or institutions
in the United States unless the agency
sponsorship is known to the appropriate
officials of the company or institution. In
the case of any company or institution
other than an academic institution, intel-
ligence agency sponsorship may be con-
cealed where it is determined, pursuant to
procedures approved by the Attorney
General, that such concealment is neces-
sary to maintain essential cover or pro-
prietary arrangements for authorized in-
telligence purposes.
2-304. Restrictions on Personnel As-
signed to Other Agencies. An employee
detailed to another agency within the
federal government shall be responsible to
the host agency and shall not report to
the parent agency on the affairs of the
host agency unless so directed by the host
agency. The head of the host agency, and
any successor, shall be informed of the
assassination.
2-306. Restrictions on Special Activi-
ties. No component of the United States
Government except an agency within the
Intelligence Community may conduct
any special activity. No such agency ex-
cept the CIA (or the military services in
wartime) may conduct any special ac-
tivity unless the President determines, with
the SCC's advice, that another agency is
more likely to achieve a particular ob-
jective.
2-307. Restrictions on Indirect Partic-
ipation in Prohibited Activities. No agency
of the Intelligence Community shall re-
quest or otherwise encourage, directly or
indirectly, any person, organization, or
government agency to undertake activi-
ties forbidden by this Order or by appli-
cable law.
2-308. Restrictions on Assistance to
Law Enforcement Authorities. Agencies
within the Intelligence Community other
than the FBI shall not, except as ex-
pressly authorized by law:
(a) Provide services, equipment, per-
sonnel or facilities to the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Administration (or its
successor agencies) or to state or local
police organizations of the United States;
or
(b) Participate in or fund any law en-
forcement activity within the United
States.
2-309. Permissible Assistance to Law
Enforcement Authorities. The restric-
tions in Section 2-308 shall not preclude:
(a) Cooperation with appropriate law
enforcement agencies for the purpose of
protecting the personnel and facilities of
209
