Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 7, 1978
Lagos, Nigeria
Remarks of the President and Lt. Gen.
Olusegun Obasanjo at the Welcoming
Ceremony. April 1, 1978
GENERAL OBASANJO. President and Mrs.
Carter, on behalf of the people and Gov-
ernment of Nigeria, I would like to take
this opportunity to welcome you to Ni-
geria and, indeed, to Africa on this his-
toric visit.
In the interest of peace and stability in
Africa, in particular, and in the world in
general, and for the mutual benefit of
our two countries, contact and consulta-
tion between our countries, especially
since your arrival in the White House,
has been on the increase. We welcome
this development.
I fondly remember my visit to your
great country only last October and the
warm and generous reception accorded
me. That visit afforded us an opportunity
for frank and cordial exchange of views
and ideas on contemporary issues of in-
terest to our two countries. I hope this
visit, the first of its kind and so timely,
will be as rewarding and as fruitful as my
memorable visit last October.
The whole of Africa, and indeed the
whole world, will be interested in your
visit to our country as marking a signifi-
cant redirection in American policy to-
wards black Africa.
This visit will afford you, Mr. President,
and Mrs. Carter and, through you, the
majority of American people a closer
understanding of Africa today and Afri-
can aspirations.
We as leaders cannot afford to disap-
point our two peoples, in particular, who
have great expectations from this ex-
change of visits. There are present issues
which must engage our attention during
this visit. Your personal commitment to
human values, rights, and dignity, based
on the principles and ideals of the Found-
ing Fathers of your great country, have
given us some hope in our joint endeavor
to eradicate racialism on this continent
and to ensure improvement of peace, jus-
tice, and fairness on our continent and
in the world.
We believe that world economies are
complementary and interdependent, and
we hope this visit will afford us the oppor-
tunity of exploring the areas of coopera-
tion and collaboration between our two
countries for our mutual benefits, and
finding ways and means of bringing about
a more equitable world economic order.
May I especially once again welcome
Mrs. Carter to Nigeria and wish you,
President and Mrs. Carter, and all the
643
