Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
outside the government—since then, my
mother's been to Ireland on a trip. This
one actually originated in Des Moines,
Iowa. And Mother just went out and
joined them to fly over to Ireland and
spent 10 days and came back. My mother-
in-law and my brother-in-law went to
England, to Newcastle, England. This
trip to Caracas, I think, originated in
Tennessee, did it not?
Q. Yes, sir; in Nashville.
THE PRESIDENT. And my second son,
Chip, and his wife will go from Connecti-
cut this coming week, I think, to Tel
Aviv, to Israel, and stay over there. I
think there will be 420 people on a 747
going from Connecticut to Israel. And
that same plane will bring 425 Israelis
over here to stay in the Connecticut area.
It's one of the finest programs I've ever
seen. It really generates a genuine inter-
est in each other's countries.
And we'd like for that to happen all
over the Nation. If you have an interest
in it, you could write my wife. And I
think if you could stir up a planeload of
people, you would find that your problem
would be trying to keep the crowd down,
rather than to recruit people. It's a won-
derful, nongovernmental program that I
think is worthy of legitimate pride. I'm
glad you brought it up.
U.S. FORCES IN EUROPE
Q. Mr. President, Steve Frady from
Carson City, Nevada. Do you intend to
use the troops leaving South Korea to
meet the pledge you made to the NATO
nations?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Those troops will
probably come back to our country to a
staging area. We will increase in the
NATO area our troop placement, in this
18-month period, about 8,000. We now
have about 210,000, roughly, soldiers in
Europe and roughly 300,000 in all, in-
cluding the Air Force and the Navy, plus
another 50,000, approximately, in ships
around the European theater.
But we are trying, also, at the same
time, to make a more efficient use of our
money. We'll reduce substantially the pro-
jected defense expenditures below what
President Ford had projected for 1979.
But at the same time, we'll have a real
growth above the inflation rate of about
3 percent in outlays or expenditures this
coming fiscal year. We are trying to cut
down waste, and we're trying to orient our
forces where they're most needed.
We also are preparing-by stockpiling
materiel in the European theater and by
having a much more mobile military capa-
bility-we are trying to reduce substan-
tially the amount of time it would take to
shift continent-based, United States-based
mobile units over into Europe if it became
necessary. Of course, what we are doing
this for is not to create a war but to pro-
vide an open, sure demonstration to the
Warsaw Pact nations that we are capable
of defending Europe, along with our Euro-
pean allies.
So, when we do bring the troops back
from Korea, they won't be disbanded.
They'll be used on this continent as a re-
serve force that can be used in Europe
expeditiously, if necessary.
Let me just take one more question.
Q. Mr. President, you may be sorry.
THE PRESIDENT. That's all right.
Q. This is going to be a Marston ques-
tion. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
U.S. ATTORNEY DAVID MARSTON
Q. It seems to have become, from a
local political squabble, it has escalated
into a national test of the political climate
of this administration. I wonder if any
thought had been given to the heavy bur-
den that whatever Democratic appointee
would carry going in there, having to pro-
76
