Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Africa now for about a week. This is one
of the reasons that he is there. And I will
be glad to give you a more detailed report
after I get additional information.
NUCLEAR ENERGY AND NONPROLIFERATION
Q. Mr. President, now that you have a
broad nonproliferation act in your hands,
do you expect you can persuade Brazil
to give up reprocessing and enrich-
ment technology being acquired from
Germany? And in that case, what are the
carrots you might specifically use to
further the power of your arguments in
your meetings with President Geisel?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we strongly
favor the right of any country to have part
of its energy supplies come from nuclear
power. As you know, our country has been
the leader in the evolution of atomic
power for peaceful uses, and we would do
nothing to prevent this trend continuing,
both in Brazil and in other countries
around the world.
Our own nuclear nonproliferation
policy, however, tries to draw a distinc-
tion between the right and the meeting of
need of countries to produce energy
from atomic power on the one hand, and
the right of the country to evolve weap-
ons-grade nuclear materials through
either enrichment processes or through
reprocessing.
We have no authority over either West
Germany nor Brazil, nor do we want any.
But as a friend of both countries, we re-
serve the right to express our opinion to
them, that it would be very good to have,
and possible to have, a complete nuclear
fuel system throughout a country without
having the ability to reprocess spent fuel
from the power reactors. In the United
States, for instance, in the last 25 years
or so, on several occasions major invest-
ments, multibillion-dollar investments in
all, have been made in reprocessing plants.
So far as I know, for the civilian nuclear
technology, all those plants have now been
abandoned as being noneconomical.
So, this is a difference that does exist
between Brazil and the United States. The
right of Brazil and West Germany to con-
tinue with their agreement is one that we
don't challenge, but we have reserved the
right and have used the right to express
our concern, both to the Brazilian Gov-
ernment and to the West German Gov-
ernment.
I think it's accurate to say that the
European nations have now announced
that in the future, they will not make re-
processing plants part of their overseas
sales inventory. And we are very deeply
concerned about this. Of course, Brazil
has announced that they have no inten-
tion of producing nuclear explosives.
Brazil is a signatory to the Treaty of
Tlatelolco. So far, however, Brazil has re-
tained a caveat that it will not apply to
them until all the other nations sign it.
And Argentina, Cuba, France, Russia
have not yet signed the Tlatelolco Treaty.
We would hope that every effort would
be made by Brazil and other countries,
as it is on the part of our own country,
to prevent the spread of nuclear explosive
capability to any nation which does not
presently have it.
Q. Mr. President, what are the carrots?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have no spe-
cific carrots to offer, except that we are
making available to countries—and now
in a much more predictable way with the
new congressional law-enriched urani-
um, which is suitable for production of
power but not suitable for explosives, and
technological advice and counsel, both in
the use of uranium, with which Brazil is
not blessed as a natural resource, and also
thorium, which we have in our own coun-
try and which Brazil already has.
The new thorium technology is a much
safer one to provide power without going
630
