Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
capita than any other metropolitan area
in the United States, perhaps the world.
The result has been financial prosperity
and also problems. Denver has the worst
carbon monoxide problem in the whole
Nation, three times worse than national
health and safety standards permit. And
other pollutants-hydrocarbons, sulfur
oxides, particulates endanger the air of
your beautiful community.
The Denver Air Project will greatly
improve the coordination, for the first
time in the history of our country, of 25
different Federal activities that relate to
air pollution in the metropolitan area.
This has never been attempted before.
The project will make an additional $15
million available for such activities as
transit-related construction, van pool
projects, free off-peak bus service, elec-
tric car use, and efforts to prevent tam-
pering with antipollution devices on auto-
mobiles.
Up to $42 million may be made avail-
able as this project develops if it is suc-
cessful, and I expect it to be successful.
In addition, a separate $16 million ur-
ban mass transit grant from the Depart-
ment of Transportation will also go to
improve bus service here in Denver.
I believe that we can deal with this
problem not through heavy-handed gov-
ernment prohibitions, but rather through
a positive demonstration of how Federal,
State, and local resources and, of course,
those of the private sector as well, can be
brought to bear in a coordinated way.
The Federal Regional Council, under
Betty Miller, has done an unprecedented
job in bringing together all these forces in
a common effort, working very closely
with Alan Merson of the Environmental
Protection Agency.
Denver's pollution problem is decen-
tralized. It's not caused by a few large
pollution-spouting factories or industrial
plants, but it's caused by hundreds of
thousands of individual vehicles. That
means that everyone must help to deal
with the problems. And I'm confident
that the people of Denver will respond
with support for the efforts that will be
launched or enhanced through the Den-
ver Air Project.
This morning I looked at a pledge card
that's now being distributed among the
people of Denver, asking individual citi-
zens to promise to ride the bus, to ride a
bicycle, to walk to work, to share a car, to
have their air pollution devices carefully
adjusted, to have special devices installed
for the high altitude combustion required
of automobile engines here, quite often
built for a much denser atmosphere.
But the desire of people for a healthy
environment, while meeting our own en-
ergy needs, is not unique in urban areas.
Places like the western slope of Colorado
and the coal fields of West Virginia will
play a major role in helping our country
meet pressing demands for alternatives to
oil and natural gas.
When I announced my comprehensive
I promised that no State, no community,
energy plan a little more than a year ago,
and no Indian tribe would be forced to
bear an unfair share of the burden of
recognized the disruption of rural com-
meeting our national energy needs. We
munities which rapid development of new
energy sources can bring. The boom and
bust syndrome in communities such as
Craig must not continue.
My administration, Governor Lamm,
and Governors of other Western and Ap-
palachian States joined with community
and tribal leaders in a task force to deter-
mine what additional Federal assistance
was needed to help communities over-
come the problems caused by extraordi-
nary energy-related growth.
833
