Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
ticular, among the other continents and
communities of the world.
So tonight, I would like to refer more
personally to my impressions of the visit
that I have had with General Obasanjo.
I noticed when the entertainment was
introduced, the first statement made was,
"No one knows where we go when we
die." General Obasanjo and I have dis-
cussed our future when we die as political
leaders in a few years, and [laughter]—
since we both come from great peanut-
producing nations, we decided we would
go into a farming partnership. [Laughter]
I'll share my farm with him in Georgia,
and he'll have to share some farmland
with me in Nigeria. And we'll have a
chance to travel back and forth to learn
to like each other even more and to get
better acquainted even with the people in
our two countries.
I also noticed that the ancient custom
of not being able to tell an oba bad news
is one that I would really appreciate as
President of the United States. [Laughter]
The only problem is I'm afraid that no
one would ever have a chance to talk to
me about anything, because bad news is
all I have a chance to talk about as Presi-
dent of our country. [Laughter]
We have formed a good relationship, a
friendly one, one based not just on serious
things but on discussions that show that
we are at ease with one another. And we
share the responsibilities of leadership of
two of the great nations of the world.
Today when I was getting ready to
leave for Tin Can Island, I invited Gen-
eral Obasanjo to go with me on the trip.
He said he couldn't stand to go and look
at how much money Nigeria was spend-
ing on new port facilities. But when I got
there and saw the tremendous new capa-
bilities that Nigeria has now opened up to
trade with the rest of the world, I realized
what a wise government Nigeria has and
how the present investments will pay rich
dividends in the future.
Your growth has been extraordinary,
very rapid. And I know, even from a na-
tion that has been in existence now for
more than 200 years, how difficult it is to
deal with rapid change and rapid growth
and a yearning among our people for a
better life, a proper distribution of wealth
and opportunity. And these are the kinds
of things that we learn, one from another.
As I mentioned in church this morning,
I first began to learn about Nigeria more
than 40 years ago, as we studied in a small
Baptist church in my town in Georgia
about the common religious faith that
aroused our interest as Christians in your
country. We are a highly diverse nation
with a wide range of religious beliefs, as
are you. But there is a fundamental faith
in a higher authority on which we've
predicated our laws, our customs, our be-
liefs, and our hopes and confidence in the
future.
and it has done it for many ages in the
This is one thing that binds us together,
past, and it will be a basis for a common
purpose and a common sharing of life in
the future.
We've had a chance during the few
hours we've been here-I, my wife, my
little daughter-to learn about the an-
cient culture of Nigeria, much more ad-
vanced than ours, beautiful artifacts of
2,000 or more years ago, where you had an
already existing culture, well based on the
intelligence and the beauty of your peo-
ple's minds, that has existed down to the
present day. And I believe it's accurate to
say that when a county is dynamic, is
growing, is struggling, is challenged on
occasion-as Andy Young said yesterday,
it's when we learn to appreciate our an-
cient culture, our roots, and our past even
more.
You have much to be admired, and we
have new things as well from which we
659
