Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mestic groups will not produce chaos and
discord, but a new harmony of effort for
the common good.
It means increasing our efforts to en-
sure that the fruits of economic growth
reach all parts of society, so that each
individual will share in the benefits of
economic progress. And it means using
our resources to promote human develop-
ment-not just growth for its own sake.
Our democratic economies now have
unprecedented strength to meet this chal-
lenge. We have skilled work forces. We
have productive plants and equipment,
effective management, and the will and
the means to cooperate closely with one
another-both within nations and also
among nations.
And in the free market we have a
means of matching production to human
needs that is swifter and more subtle than
any computer, more sensitive to society's
requirements than any state committee.
My country is able and willing to join
with its partners in building on that
strength, to put the global economy on
the path to growth and to rising pros-
perity.
America's efforts will be directed
toward maintaining the strength of the
dollar, continuing steady progress against
unemployment and inflation, and stimu-
lating private investment.
This year we will cut taxes substantially
for both business and consumers, and
we'll take these steps primarily because
they are in our own interests, but also be-
cause we recognize the importance of
continued noninflationary recovery in
the United States to the economies of the
rest of the world.
We are working with our economic
partners also in the Geneva trade nego-
tiations to reach rapid agreement that
will improve the open trading system, ex-
pand commerce, and create new jobs.
And following the French example, we
are hard at work on a comprehensive en-
ergy program which will lessen our im-
ports of foreign oil, reduce undue de-
pendence, and cut the deficit in our
balance of trade.
France and America and the other
industrial democracies are emerging from
the economic recession of recent years.
Some of us can turn our attention at once
to noninflationary growth, like the
United States. Others must first take
painful measures simply to reduce infla-
tion. As more nations are able to pursue
higher growth, our economies will create
more jobs, and unemployment will go
down.
Confidence in steady growth will re-
duce pressures for trade restrictions, pro-
tectionism, make it easier for us to adapt
to changes within our societies, help us to
make more efficient use of energy, and
make it easier for countries with pay-
ments surpluses to open their markets to
developed and developing nations alike.
But there are also many other eco-
nomic needs today. The economic insti-
tutions that served us well in the past
need to be strengthened. We must reach
a better understanding of basic economic
forces so that we can solve the problems
simultaneously of inflation and unem-
ployment. We've not yet been able to do
this.
We must devote much greater effort to
further advances in high technology to
help all our nations compete effectively in
tomorrow's markets.
We must develop new and productive
industries and services so that we can
moderate the impact on our peoples of
change imposed by increased global com-
petition for jobs and markets that's sure
to come. And we must solve the problem
of youth unemployment. Unless we do,
24
