May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
worked so hard, to begin cutting down
our extraordinary dependence on
foreign oil.
We are now importing about $45 bil-
lion worth of oil from overseas. That
money comes out of your pocket and
mine. It robs us of job opportunities and
growth and a better living standard. We
are importing now almost half of the total
oil we use. But we are on the verge now
of having a good energy policy for a
change.
We've devised, as the mayor men-
tioned, a national urban policy to create
a new partnership between all levels of
government and the private sector, to put
new life back into our great cities-and
particularly those who haven't done
quite as well as Chicago, but there's
plenty there to help Chicago, too.
And when we evolved this program we
did not do it in the isolation of a back-
room in the Oval Office of the White
House. We consulted with Mayor Bi-
landic and other mayors around the
country. We worked with the Members of
Congress. We worked with Governors,
State legislators, county officials to make
sure that when we came out with a pro-
gram it was sound, and we didn't add very
much money to the Federal budget to
carry it out. We primarily are now en-
suring that partnership lets us get more
benefit, more service from all the on-
going programs and for the few new ones
that we are adding. We are revitalizing
housing programs, job training, public
transportation, environmental protec-
tion, civil rights protection, the Peace
Corps. Under all this I'm completely
dedicated to binding American families
back together.
We ended the Republican cutbacks in
aid to education. And I noticed from
what Mike said, you've got the same phi-
losophy in the State Capitol, to cut back
education. We tried to change that. In
fact, we've increased aid to education
more than ever before in history, and we
put the emphasis back on the efficient use
of funds for basic learning skills.
We are keeping a strong defense and
breathing new life into our vital military
alliances like NATO. Our strength mili-
tarily, economically, politically, the har-
mony between the Congress and the
White House, is preserving peace. We've
gone for the past year and a half without
having one single American soldier shed
blood in any foreign war.
And I'm determined to sustain this
record and create world peace. We've
made progress in the movement toward
peace in the Middle East, but not in any
way at the expense of our special relation-
ship with Israel or at any risk to Israel's
security. As I have said many times, we
will never waver from our deep friend-
ship and partnership with Israel and our
total commitment to its peace and
security.
We are working to stop nuclear pro-
liferation and to remove the threat of
human destruction by atomic weapons.
And I'm proud to say we've put our na-
tional prestige on the line for human
rights in every corner of the world.
Whether a country is behind the Iron
Curtain or not, we will no longer be si-
lent as a nation about oppression and in-
justice. We are saying, "Give your people
freedom to worship, to express themselves,
to shape their own destiny, to vote, to live
in peace, and to live in freedom.” And as
long as I'm President, we will never back
down on our struggle for human rights
around the world.
Well, we've done all this in less than
a year and a half. And it's just the be-
ginning. We are going to reform our
health care system to guarantee decent
health care at minimum cost for Ameri-
can citizens.
We are going to reform our welfare
system, to cut waste and to help break
986
