Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 28
level which will give greater opportuni-
ties to millions of children.
EMERGENCY SCHOOL AID ACT
We must move aggressively to end the
last vestiges of racial and ethnic mistrust
and disharmony in our schools and in our
society as a whole. Great progress toward
that goal has been made, particularly in
the South, but much remains to be done.
The Emergency School Aid Act has
helped numerous local school districts re-
spond to the problems of racial isolation
and improve education for all their chil-
dren. I recommend amendments to that
legislation which would:
-encourage voluntary local initiatives
to overcome the adverse effects of
minority group isolation;
offer flexibility to meet the needs of
desegregating districts;
-and encourage multi-year planning
and implementation of desegrega-
tion.
To give us more flexibility in meeting
changing needs, I propose to increase the
share of discretionary funds from 22 per-
cent to 42 percent. This will permit allo-
cation of resources to areas of greatest
need. At the same time I am recommend-
ing a new system of multi-year grants
which will sharply reduce paperwork and
will help local school systems plan for the
future.
BASIC SKILLS
The Federal government can play an
important role in funding research and
demonstration projects which will show
us how to improve the quality and effec-
tiveness of our educational system. Stu-
dent achievement can be improved
through innovation, and a concentration
on basic skills. I propose several improve-
ments in this area:
-the creation of a new Basic Skills
and Educational Quality title in the
Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion Act which would encourage state
and local demonstration efforts to
improve basic skills in reading,
writing and mathematics, including
increased use of achievement testing
and the participation by parents in
teaching their children;
-the creation of a new Special Proj-
ects title in the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act to consolidate
educational quality developmental
programs and provide greater flexi-
bility; and strengthen our efforts,
through the Community Schools pro-
gram, to link the school with em-
ployers and other resources in the
surrounding community;
-changes in the Adult Education Act
to put more emphasis on competency
in basic skills and on obtaining high
school credentials, and to increase
sponsorship of adult education pro-
grams by business, labor and other
community organizations.
IMPACT AID
which must be faced. The purpose of the
Reform of Impact Aid is a challenge
program is to compensate school districts
for the cost of educating children when
local revenues are reduced by tax-exempt
federally-owned land and when local
school enrollments are increased by chil-
dren whose parents live and/or work on
that land. Yet Impact Aid, as currently
structured, has strayed far from that
purpose.
The legislation I propose makes real-
istic and responsible reforms:
-elimination of payments for children
whose parents work on Federal
property outside the country in
which the school district is located;
-a two-year cap on payments which
are based on public housing at the
427
