Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 5
I would like to say one more thing to
you. I've given you a lot of credit, which
you deserve, but I think a major part of
the credit that the Communication
Workers of America has earned is because
of the superb leadership of Glenn Watts.
As I said before, you are a progressive
union, and he's a progressive leader. You
are an enlightened union, and he's an
enlightened leader. You are a union that's
unselfish, that tries to get benefits for peo-
ple in our country who are not members
of your own organization, and that's
the kind of man he is. You are an effec-
tive group, and he's an effective leader.
You are American citizens who represent
the finest aspect of what our country has
been, is, and can be to an even greater
degree in the future, and he accurately
represents that in his own leadership role.
He's a kind man, a gentleman, an effec-
tive man, and a tough negotiator, as you
know, and a good, competent friend to
have.
It's with a great deal of honor that I
stand here on this small podium with one
of my best personal friends who had con-
fidence in me very early, who sets high
demands on my own performance of duty
as President, who's never satisfied with
mediocrity or halfway reaching of very
high goals. I look on him as a counselor,
as a constructive critic, as someone who
supports me when I'm right, and is not
afraid to criticize me when I'm wrong.
And he is valuable to you; he's valuable
to me; he's valuable to our country. So,
together you represent the kind of friends
and partners I need, I like, and I appreci-
ate from the bottom of my heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Appalachian Regional
Commission
Nomination of William E. Albers To Be
Alternate Federal Cochairman. April 5, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate William E. Albers, of
Washington, D.C., to be Alternate Fed-
eral Cochairman of the Appalachian Re-
gional Commission. He would replace
George Siebels, resigned.
Albers was born August 3, 1943. He
received a B.S. from Southeast Missouri
State University in 1967. From 1967 to
1969, he was a systems analyst for the De-
fense Nuclear Support Agency of the De-
fense Department, and from 1969 to
1971, he was a senior staff member, per-
forming management consulting activities
for Brandon Applied Systems, Inc.
From 1971 to 1972, and again in 1974
and 1975, he served as Management Pro-
grams Officer for the U.S. Bureau of
Prisons. In 1972 and 1973, he was a self-
employed consultant, providing manage-
ment and organizational consulting serv-
ices. In 1973 and 1974, he worked for the
Justice Department's Office of Criminal
Justice, working on development of a
long-range planning capability for the
Department.
In 1976 Albers was a national fundrais-
ing director for the Carter campaign and
then worked for the Transition Talent
Inventory Program. In 1977 he was a
consultant to the Law Enforcement As-
sistance Administration. From September
1977 to March 1978, he was a consultant
to ACTION, working on a new program
for the Agency in the area of criminal jus-
tice. He is currently a consultant to the
Appalachian Regional Commission.
687
