June 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Why was that decision made? Why was
it decided that Bell would go ahead and
prosecute when Days had decided not to?
THE PRESIDENT. There was an errone-
ous press report, which sometimes occurs
in our Nation, which indicated that Drew
Days had made a decision and that he
had recommended to Mr. Civiletti, who
pursues criminal cases, that this case not
be pursued further.
We inquired of Mr. Days about the ac-
curacy of that report. He has not yet made
a decision about whether he would rec-
ommend any further Justice Department
involvement. And I asked the Attorney
General, which is appropriate, to look into
the case himself. This is a case of high
interest to the Spanish-speaking commu-
nity in the Southwest, and again, his de-
cision would be made on the basis of the
merits of the case. But Mr. Days has not
made any decision on his own. He has not
made any recommendation to Mr. Civi-
letti, which was erroneously reported by
the press.
DAVID G. GARTNER
Q. Mr. President, it's been reported
that you've asked David Gartner to resign
from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and it's been rumored that
he has told you that he wouldn't. Are
these things true? And if so, what are you
going to do about them?
THE PRESIDENT. I might say I don't
know Mr. Gartner. He's one of the
roughly 700 people that we recom-
mended to the Congress be appointed to
positions of importance. In assessing the
factors in his case during the last week or
so, both I and my staff members, after
consultation with the Vice President, who
does know Mr. Gartner well, we have
decided Mr. Gartner ought to resign.
He has not committed a crime, he has
not violated the law, but the image of
impropriety, resulting from the acceptance
by his children of a substantial gift, leads
me to think that it would be better if he
did resign. I understand that Friday, Mr.
Gartner called my staff members and said
that he did not intend to resign.
So, the description that you made is sub-
stantially correct. I do not have authority
to remove Mr. Gartner from office once
he has been confirmed by the Senate. But
I think he should resign. The decision
now is up to him.
Q. Mr. President, so there's no further
step that you feel you can take at this
point?
THE PRESIDENT. No, except to encour-
age him to reconsider and resign.
Q. Well, sir, it was my impression at
your last news conference here that you
had already assessed the case, because you
seemed at that time to indicate that you
saw nothing wrong with the circum-
stances surrounding all of this. What has
caused you to change your mind?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have looked
into it much more thoroughly than I had
before I came to the last press confer-
ence. The report I made last time was
basically accurate, that he had reported
voluntarily the acceptance of the gift to
his children, that the Senate Agriculture
Committee had been thoroughly conver-
sant with this fact, and that the Senate
committee and the Senate itself had con-
firmed him, that he had not committed
any crime. I believe, though, in light of
the fact that there is an allegation of im-
propriety on his part, with which I agree,
that he should resign.
EUROPEAN TROOP REDUCTIONS
Q. Mr. President, along with the re-
cent tougher rhetoric from Moscow,
there's also reportedly been an important
concession by the Soviets that the talks
over reducing the number of NATO and
Warsaw Pact troops faced off in Europe,
I wonder, in light of that, what are the
prospects now for an agreement of those
talks?
1182
