May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(b) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Com-
mission shall be paid from the appropri-
ation for "Unanticipated Needs" in the
Executive Office Appropriations Act or
from such other funds as may be avail-
able.
(c) Expenditures authorized by this
Section may be made only after the Presi-
dent has notified a panel's chairman that
he desires the panel's assistance in accord-
ance with Section 3 above, and before the
termination of appointments to the panel
in accordance with Section 7 below.
Sec. 7. Term of Membership. Unless
extended by the President, each appoint-
ment to a panel shall terminate thirty
days after submission of the panel's re-
port to the President.
SEC. 8. Termination of Commission.
The Commission shall terminate on De-
pride and dignity. Each day we enjoy
peace is a reminder of their important
role.
It is with equal pride that we Ameri-
cans set aside one day each year to pay
tribute to these patriotic volunteers, sta-
tioned throughout the world.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States and Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of
the United States, continuing the prece-
dent of my six immediate predecessors in
this Office, do hereby proclaim the third
Saturday of each May as Armed Forces
Day.
I direct the Secretary of Defense on
Force, and the Marine Corps, and the
behalf of the Army, the Navy, the Air
Secretary of Transportation on behalf of
the Coast Guard, to plan for appropriate
observances each year, with the Secretary
of Defense responsible for soliciting the
cember 31, 1978, unless sooner extended participation and cooperation of civil au-
by the President.
SEC. 9. Revocations. Executive Order
No. 11972 and Executive Order No.
11993 are hereby revoked.
The White House,
May 11, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:02 p.m., May 15, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on May 15.
Armed Forces Day, 1978
Proclamation 4571. May 15, 1978
thorities and private citizens.
I invite the Governors of the States,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and
other areas subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States, to provide for the
observance of Armed Forces Day within
their jurisdiction each year in an appro-
priate manner designed to increase pub-
lic understanding and appreciation of the
Armed Forces of the United States.
I also invite national and local veter-
ans, civic and other organizations to join
in the observance of Armed Forces Day
each year.
I call upon my fellow Americans not
only to display the flag of the United
States at their homes on Armed Forces
By the President of the United States Day, but also to learn about our system
of America
A Proclamation
The men and women of the Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and
Coast Guard serve their country with
of defense, and about the men and wom-
en who sustain it, by attending and
participating in the local observances of
the day.
Proclamation 4492 of March 22, 1977,
is hereby superseded.
912
