Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I would like to say in closing that I
believe that we need and I believe that we
will get a separate department of educa-
tion. This is a matter that I considered
very carefully before I promised your offi-
cers before the election that I would do.
Since I've been in the White House,
I've had the need for this separate depart-
ment impressed even more vividly on my
mind. When I was Governor for 4 years,
I would guess at least 20 or 25 percent of
my time was spent in dealing with issues
directly related to public education at the
elementary, secondary, preschool, or the
college level. This is a subject that rarely
arises at a Cabinet meeting of your Gov-
ernment in Washington.
The only time it does arise is when
there's a legal question involving civil
rights or the allocation of funds. And I
would say that the Attorney General really
When politicians like myself have been
fearful to address difficult changes in our
attitudes and social structures, our educa-
tors have had to bear the brunt of criti-
cism and have had to take courageous
action.
I've seen it at first hand. And the results
of your courage and your dedication and
sometimes your sacrifice have been a pro-
found benefit to our country.
I have a great admiration for you all
and a great appreciation for what you
have meant for our country and a great
awareness and confidence in what you
will mean to our country even more in the
future. It's an honor to have you here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Nomination of Gloria Cusumano Jimenez.
February 10, 1978
has more of a problem to bring to the Federal Insurance Administrator
Cabinet meeting than does the Secretary
of HEW. Joe Califano is a superb man.
He's dedicated to a finer education in our
country. But the point is that as long as
the educational function is buried within
a large department with welfare and
health, I don't think that education will
ever get the visibility that it deserves.
And so, my own experience, where
maybe 2 or 3 percent of my time as Presi-
dent, even among domestic issues, is de-
voted to education, compared to 10 times
that much as Governor, shows me that
it doesn't have the visibility and the im-
portance that it warrants in our demo-
cratic and free society.
I could talk to you a lot about our
national image around the world and the
need to emphasize basic human rights.
But I won't emphasize those points
specifically. I would like to say that I
recognize in you a kind of cutting edge
for social change that sometimes is quite
onerous for you.
The President today announced that
he will nominate Gloria Cusumano Jime-
nez, of Durham, N.C., to be Federal In-
surance Administrator.
Jimenez was born July 1, 1932, in New
York City. She received an LL.B. from
Brooklyn Law School in 1954.
From 1955 to 1966, she practiced law
in New York, and in 1965 and 1966, she
also served as district aide to Congress-
man Richard Ottinger.
From 1968 to 1970, Jimenez was direc-
tor of housing and urban programs for
the North Carolina Department of Local
Affairs. From 1971 to 1974, she was a
housing consultant and assistant director
of the Low Income Housing Develop-
ment Corporation in Durham. Since
1975 she has been deputy commissioner
and general counsel of the North Caro-
lina Department of Insurance.
298
