Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
flation, there was a healthy increase in
workers' wages.
And this year, our country will have
the first $2 trillion economy in the his-
tory of the world.
Now, we are proud of this progress the
first year, but we must do even better in
the future.
We still have serious problems on which
all of us must work together. Our trade
deficit is too large. Inflation is still too
high, and too many Americans still do not
have a job.
Now, I didn't have any simple answers
for all these problems. But we have de-
veloped an economic policy that is work-
ing, because it's simple, balanced, and
fair. It's based on four principles:
First, the economy must keep on ex-
panding to produce new jobs and better
income, which our people need. The
fruits of growth must be widely shared.
More jobs must be made available to
those who have been bypassed until now.
And the tax system must be made fairer
and simpler.
Secondly, private business and not the
Government must lead the expansion in
the future.
Third, we must lower the rate of infla-
tion and keep it down. Inflation slows
down economic growth, and it's the most
cruel to the poor and also to the elderly
and others who live on fixed incomes.
And fourth, we must contribute to the
strength of the world economy.
I will announce detailed proposals for
improving our tax system later this week.
We can make our tax laws fairer, we can
make them simpler and easier to under-
stand, and at the same time, we can-
and we will reduce the tax burden on
American citizens by $25 billion.
The tax reforms and the tax reductions
go together. Only with the long overdue
reforms will the full tax cut be advisable.
Almost $17 billion in income tax cuts
will go to individuals. Ninety-six percent
of all American taxpayers will see their
taxes go down. For a typical family of
four, this means an annual saving of more
than $250 a year, or a tax reduction of
about 20 percent. A further $2 billion cut
in excise taxes will give more relief and
also contribute directly to lowering the
rate of inflation.
And we will also provide strong addi-
tional incentives for business investment
and growth through substantial cuts in
the corporate tax rates and improvement
in the investment tax credit.
Now, these tax proposals will increase
opportunity everywhere in the Nation.
But additional jobs for the disadvantaged
deserve special attention.
We've already passed laws to assure
equal access to the voting booth and to
restaurants and to schools, to housing, and
laws to permit access to jobs. But job op-
portunity-the chance to earn a decent
living is also a basic human right, which
we cannot and will not ignore.
A major priority for our Nation is the
final elimination of the barriers that re-
strict the opportunities available to
women and also to black people and
Hispanics and other minorities. We've
come a long way toward that goal. But
there is still much to do. What we in-
herited from the past must not be per-
mitted to shackle us in the future.
I'll be asking you for a substantial in-
crease in funds for public jobs for our
young people, and I also am recommend-
ing that the Congress continue the public
service employment programs at more
than twice the level of a year ago. When
welfare reform is completed, we will have
more than a million additional jobs so
that those on welfare who are able to work
can work.
92
32
