Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 4
Americans came to the Normandy beaches
and to the Marne to join France in pre-
serving your liberty and, thereby, our own.
Now we are again allied in a search for
answers to difficult questions that concern
us both. President Giscard d'Estaing and
wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the
Unknown Soldier. They then proceeded to
Elysee Palace for meetings.
I will discuss ensuring the stability and Paris, France
growth of the international economy and
working for economic justice within our
own societies and among the nations of
the world, maintaining the defense of our
Western nations, while constantly search-
ing for peace in troubled areas such as
the Middle East, for constantly improved
Remarks at the Palais des Congres.
January 4, 1978
relations with the Soviet Union and East-
ern Europe, and for reductions in the
level of all kinds of armaments every-
where in the world, addressing other is-
sues which no nation can afford to ignore,
especially the world's energy problems,
and continuing the struggle for basic
human rights, which our two nations pro-
claimed 200 years ago.
The statue in the harbor of New York
that symbolizes our own liberty, like many
of the ideas which first inspired our own
demands for freedom, came as a gift from
the people of France.
Our approaches to specific questions
may not always be the same, but our deep
respect for the independence and leader-
ship of France and our affection for your
people have remained strong for more
than 200 years. I hope and believe that in
the future the ties between France and
the United States of America will grow
even stronger.
Mr. President, we are delighted to be
here in your great country with your great
people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. at
Orly International Airport in response to wel-
coming remarks by President Valéry Giscard
d'Estaing.
Following the ceremony, the President and
President Giscard d'Estaing motorcaded to the
Arc de Triomphe, where they participated in a
Mr. Foreign Minister, presidents of the
organizations who daily work to ensure
friendship between our two countries,
ladies and gentlemen of France and the
United States who have come this eve-
ning:
This afternoon I laid a wreath, along
with the President of France, on the grave
of the soldier who commemorated the
bravery of the French people. And stand-
ing on my left was a group of men in the
same regiment who fought with George
Washington at Yorktown 200 years ago.
When our democracy was born, France
was there. And for more than 200 years,
our two nations have shared the same
ideals and the same culture.
There is one belief above all others that
has made us what we are. This is the
belief tht the rights of the individual
inherently stand higher than the claims or
demands of the state. This is the message
that the American and French peoples,
each in turn, carried forward to the world
two centuries ago, and these are the values
which the world still depends upon us to
affirm.
Democracy was then a new and an un-
tried concept. Now it is a standard for
our Western civilization. The American
Declaration of Independence inspired so
greatly by French philosophy, spoke of the
unalienable rights of persons, of life
and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
These rights were controversial then, and
now they are the measure by which the
21
