Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 2
ning of my Administration, and was pre-
pared by the Department of Labor.
The report indicates that not all agen-
cies of the Federal Government have in
the past fully followed guidelines set forth
by the Department of Labor for work-
place safety and health programs. This
Administration is studying ways to im-
prove the workplace safety and health
efforts of all Federal agencies, including
those programs that affect Federal em-
ployees. I intend that reports covering the
years of this Administration will reflect
significant progress in that regard.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 2, 1978.
NOTE: The 13-page report is entitled "Occu-
pational Safety & Health Activities in the Fed-
eral Government, the President's Annual Re-
port to the Senate and House of Representa-
tives."
Trade With Hungary and
Romania
Message to the Congress. June 2, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with subsection 402 (d)
(5) of the Trade Act of 1974, I transmit
herewith my recommendation for a fur-
ther 12-month extension of the authority
to waive subsections (a) and (b) of sec-
tion 402.
In accordance with subsections 402 (d)
(5) (B) and (C), this recommendation
gives my reasons for recommending the
extension of waiver authority and for my
determination that continuation of the
waivers applicable to the Socialist Repub-
lic of Romania and to the Hungarian Peo-
ple's Republic will substantially promote
the objectives of section 402.
I include as part of my recommenda-
tion, my determination that further ex-
tension of the waiver authority, and con-
tinuation of the waivers applicable to the
Socialist Republic of Romania and to the
Hungarian People's Republic, will sub-
stantially promote the objectives of section
402.
For the information of the Congress, I
also include my finding and determina-
tion that the requirements for renewal of
the United States-Romanian Agreement
on Trade Relations under section 405 (b)
of the Trade Act have been satisfied.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 2, 1978.
RECOMMENDATION FOR EXTENSION OF
WAIVER AUTHORITY
I recommend to the Congress that the
waiver authority granted by subsection
402 (c) of the Trade Act of 1974 (herein-
after referred to as "the Act") be further
extended for twelve months. Pursuant to
subsection 402 (d) (5) of the Act, I have
today determined that further extension
of the waiver authority granted by section
402 (c) of the Act and continuation of the
waivers currently applicable to the Social-
ist Republic of Romania and to the Hun-
garian People's Republic will substantially
promote the objectives of section 402 of
the Act. My determinations are attached
to this recommendation, and are incor-
porated herein.
The general waiver authority conferred
by section 402(c) of the Act has proved to
be a useful instrument in permitting the
expansion of relations between the United
States and East European countries. It
permitted us to sign bilateral trade agree-
ments with Romania and Hungary in
1031
