Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tives of the chiefs of each of the Depart-
ment of Defense intelligence organizations
engaged in national foreign intelligence
activities. Other agencies within the In-
telligence Community may also designate
representatives.
1-502. Responsibilities. The NITC
shall be the central mechanism by which
the Director of Central Intelligence:
(a) Translates national foreign intelli-
gence requirements and priorities de-
veloped by the PRC into specific collec-
tion objectives and targets for the Intelli-
gence Community;
(b) Assigns targets and objectives to
national foreign intelligence collection
organizations and systems;
(c) Ensures the timely dissemination
and exploitation of data for national for-
eign intelligence purposes gathered by na-
tional foreign intelligence collection
means, and ensures the resulting intel-
ligence flow is routed immediately to rele-
vant components and commands;
(d) Provides advisory tasking concern-
ing collection of national foreign intelli-
gence to departments and agencies hav-
ing information collection capabilities or
intelligence assets that are not a part of the
National Foreign Intelligence Program.
Particular emphasis shall be placed on in-
creasing the contribution of departments
or agencies to the collection of informa-
tion through overt means.
1-503. Resolution of Conflicts. The
NITC shall have the authority to re-
solve conflicts of priority. Any PRC mem-
ber may appeal such a resolution to the
PRC; pending the PRC's decision, the
tasking remains in effect.
1-504. Transfer of Authority. All re-
sponsibilities and authorities of the Direc-
tor of Central Intelligence concerning the
NITC shall be transferred to the Secre-
tary of Defense upon the express direction
of the President. To maintain readiness
for such transfer, the Secretary of De-
fense shall, with advance agreement of
the Director of Central Intelligence, as-
sume temporarily during regular practice
exercises all responsibilities and author-
ities of the Director of Central Intelligence
concerning the NITC.
1-6. The Director of Central Intelligence.
1-601. Duties. The Director of Central
Intelligence shall be responsible directly to
the NSC and, in addition to the duties
specified elsewhere in this Order, shall:
(a) Act as the primary adviser to the
President and the NSC on national for-
eign intelligence and provide the President
and other officials in the Executive Branch
with national foreign intelligence;
(b) Be the head of the CIA and of such
staff elements as may be required for dis-
charge of the Director's Intelligence Com-
munity responsibilities;
(c) Act, in appropriate consultation
with the departments and agencies, as
the Intelligence Community's principal
spokesperson to the Congress, the news
media and the public, and facilitate the
use of national foreign intelligence prod-
ucts by the Congress in a secure manner;
(d) Develop, consistent with the re-
quirements and priorities established by
the PRC, such objectives and guidance
for the Intelligence Community as will en-
hance capabilities for responding to ex-
pected future needs for national foreign
intelligence;
(e) Promote the development and
maintenance of services of common con-
cern by designated foreign intelligence or-
ganizations on behalf of the Intelligence
Community;
(f) Ensure implementation of special
activities;
(g) Formulate policies concerning in-
telligence arrangements with foreign gov-
ernments, and coordinate intelligence re-
lationships between agencies of the Intel-
198
