June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cotton production, number one in grain
sorghum production, a State that stands
for the essence of what America is.
I've tapped very heavily in Texas to
help me with some of my most important
questions, and quite often at a Cabinet
meeting, Bob Strauss will look around
and remind me that Texas outnumbers
Georgia 2 to 1 when the Cabinet meets
with me.
I'm committed to a strong defense, and
Charles Duncan from Texas, the Deputy
Secretary of Defense, is there at my right
hand constantly to deal with problems of
increasing the power of NATO to main-
tain peace. I'm interested in preserving
peace in the Middle East. Sam Lewis,
Ambassador to Israel, happens to be a
Texan.
We're trying to deal with inflation. Bob
Strauss is helping me there-happens to
be a Texan. We're dealing with the Fed-
eral bureaucracy. One of the most impor-
tant goals that we have is to bring about
more efficiency with civil service reform.
The leader of this effort, the Chairman of
the Civil Service Commission, is Scotty
Campbell-happens to be a Texan.
We're dealing with some of the sensitive
human issues, immigration, naturalization
laws. The man in charge of this, Leonel
Castillo, happens to be a Texan.
A year ago my biggest problem domes-
tically was an extremely high unemploy-
ment rate. We've brought it down now 2
percent. We have 5 million more Ameri-
cans at work today than we did when I
came in office. The man responsible for
that to a major degree is the Secretary of
Labor, Ray Marshall, who happens to be
from Texas.
I think last year the Congress passed
the best farm bill of all time. It's start-
ing to turn around some serious prob-
lems in agriculture. The Deputy Secre-
tary of Agriculture who helped marshal
this bill through the Congress was John
White, who happens to be from Texas.
I could take all my time talking about
others who helped me in Washington. But
I think you can see very clearly that what
we are doing there represents accurately,
with strong leadership from your State,
what Texans want and expect from gov-
ernment.
I'd like to mention just two particular
items before I answer questions. One of
them is agriculture, because I know this
is the center of one of the major produc-
ing areas of the country, even the world.
We have had some improvement since
last August when the new farm bill went
into effect. Farm prices are up 25 per-
cent; wheat, 30 percent; soybeans, 30
percent; corn, 40 percent; cattle, 40
percent.
I'll discuss in a few minutes the prob-
lems with beef, because I know that's so
important to you. But even by increasing
beef imports to a very tiny degree, com-
pared to total production, we'll still have
in our country this year 1 billion pounds
more beef consumed than we can or will
produce.
We've had net farm income go up. Last
year net farm income was about $20 bil-
lion. We anticipate now a 25-percent in-
crease, to more than $25 billion this year.
And we've concentrated on exports, as
well. Last year we set an all-time record
for farm exports, $24 billion, and we'll
increase that this year with a total ton-
nage of farm exports, even with a better
price, up about 10 percent.
The other item I'd like to discuss
briefly, and I'll talk about it more in
Houston this evening, is energy. Our na-
tional will is being tested. We are the
only developed nation in the world that
has not cut back on energy consumption
since the oil embargo and the rapid in-
crease in price brought about by OPEC
1158
