Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 18
Peter B. Putnam. Mr. President, some
years ago, I remember attending an In-
dependence Day celebration for Switzer-
land, and at the time, the person who
spoke said this is a country with no natural
resources, what it had was human re-
sources. We've been very blessed with
natural resources, but I still think our
human resources are our most important
asset.
And I would like to pay tribute to the
volunteer readers who are the human re-
sources to help develop these human
resources, and they have been of ex-
traordinary help to us. They're not just
ordinary men and women, they are highly
educated, highly skilled, highly trained.
And you mentioned our studio in Oak
Ridge. We had to found that because we
had to get nuclear scientists to read the
kind of advanced mathematics and phys-
ics our students were studying. And they
are extraordinary people.
We have an award that we give to our
volunteers. And I don't know who in the
world wants to wear a necktie today, but
I would like you to have it. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
very
much. I might point out as a matter of
interest that these four students on my
right in their achievement of their bache-
lors degrees have studied and, I presume,
mastered a total of 639 books, all re-
corded by volunteers and all included in
the library of more than 35,000 volumes
now available to blind people in our
country.
So, I would like to congratulate all of
you and express my appreciation, also,
for the volunteers and others who make
this wonderful program possible.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:23 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Peter
B. Putnam is president of Recording for the
Blind, Inc.
Federal Anti-Inflation
Actions
Memorandum From the President.
May 18, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Inflation is a corrosive nation-wide
problem, and yet the Federal Govern-
ment's direct control over wages and
prices is limited. If we are to expect labor
and industry to join in voluntary re-
straints, then we must lead the way where
we can.
I have already ordered pay raises re-
duced for Federal employees. To com-
plement and balance this constraint on
labor in the public sector, I am now order-
ing additional anti-inflation actions
through the Federal Government's $81
billion annual purchases of goods and
services.
Like any consumer, the Government
must react to high costs and the inflation-
ary spiral. If goods or services are priced
too high, the Government must decide
whether it can do without certain things,
or whether it can delay purchases. There-
fore, I hereby direct all Agencies to avoid
or delay the purchase of those goods or
services whose prices are rising rapidly.
The only exceptions will be where such
action (1) would seriously jeopardize our
National defense, or (2) would cause seri-
ous and counterproductive unemploy-
ment problems; and suitable alternatives
or substitutes are not available.
In addition, I am directing that price
escalation clauses of all new or renego-
tiated Federal contracts reflect the prin-
ciple of deceleration. This will slow the
built-in spiral of inflation in several bil-
lion dollars worth of purchases.
These new procurement procedures,
and others to come, will be carried out by
927
