Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
foreign intelligence requirements, it will
be tasked by the NITC. Collection of na-
tional foreign intelligence, not otherwise
obtainable, outside the United States shall
be coordinated with the CIA, and such
collection within the United States shall
be coordinated with the FBI;
(b) Conduct of counterintelligence ac-
tivities outside the United States in co-
ordination with the CIA, and within the
United States in coordination with the
FBI, and production and dissemination
of counterintelligence studies or reports;
and
(c) Monitoring of the development,
procurement and management of tacti-
cal intelligence systems and equipment
and conducting related research, develop-
ment, and test and evaluation activities.
1-1205. Other offices within the De-
partment of Defense appropriate for con-
duct of the intelligence missions and re-
sponsibilities assigned to the Secretary of
Defense. If such other offices are used for
intelligence purposes, the provisions of
Sections 2-101 through 2-309 of this
Order shall apply to those offices when
used for those purposes.
1-13. The Department of Energy. The
Secretary of Energy shall:
1-1301. Participate with the Depart-
ment of State in overtly collecting politi-
cal, economic and technical information
with respect to foreign energy matters;
1-1302. Produce and disseminate for-
eign intelligence necessary for the Secre-
tary's responsibilities;
1-1303. Participate in formulating in-
telligence collection and analysis re-
quirements where the special expert ca-
pability of the Department can contrib-
ute; and
1-1304. Provide expert technical, ana-
lytical and research capability to other
agencies within the Intelligence Com-
munity.
1-14. The Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion. Under the supervision of the Attor-
ney General and pursuant to such regula-
tions as the Attorney General may estab-
lish, the Director of the FBI shall:
1-1401. Within the United States con-
duct counterintelligence and coordinate
counterintelligence activities of other
agencies within the Intelligence Commu-
nity. When a counterintelligence activity
of the FBI involves military or civilian
personnel of the Department of Defense,
the FBI shall coordinate with the De-
partment of Defense;
1-1402. Conduct counterintelligence
activities outside the United States in co-
ordination with the CIA, subject to the
approval of the Director of Central In-
telligence;
1-1403. Conduct within the United
States, when requested by officials of the
Intelligence Community designated by
the President, lawful activities undertaken
to collect foreign intelligence or support
foreign intelligence collection require-
ments of other agencies within the Intel-
ligence Community;
1-1404. Produce and disseminate for-
eign intelligence, counterintelligence and
counterintelligence studies and reports;
and
1-1405. Carry out or contract for re-
search, development and procurement of
technical systems and devices relating to
the functions authorized above.
1-15. The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion. Under the supervision of the Attor-
ney General and pursuant to such regula-
tions as the Attorney General may estab-
lish, the Administrator of DEA shall:
1-1501. Collect, produce and dissemi-
nate intelligence on the foreign and
domestic aspects of narcotics production
and trafficking in coordination with other
agencies with responsibilities in these
areas;
205
