Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 1
The White House Fellowship program
was established in 1964 to provide out-
standing Americans with firsthand expe-
rience in the process of governing the
Nation. It is open to U.S. citizens, early in
their careers, from all occupations and
professions. Employees of the Federal
Government are not eligible, with the ex-
ception of career Armed Forces personnel.
In addition to their job assignments
with the Vice President, members of the
Cabinet, and with the White House staff,
the Fellows participate in an education
program that includes off-the-record dis-
cussions with top-level Government offi-
cials, journalists, and leaders from various
other segments of private life.
Leadership, intellectual and profes-
sional ability, and a commitment to com-
munity and Nation are broad criteria em-
ployed in the selection process.
Applications for the 1979-80 program
will be available in August 1978. Applica-
tion forms and additional information on
the program may be obtained by sending
a postcard to the Director, President's
Commission on White House Fellowships,
Washington, D.C. 20415, or by calling
(202) 653-6263.
National Gallery of Art
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for
the East Building. June 1, 1978
Mr. Mellon, Bishop Walker, Mrs. Mon-
dale, ladies and gentlemen:
In the name of the people of the United
States of America, and on their behalf, I
accept for the Nation this East Building
of the National Gallery of Art.
I accept it with a full heart, with grati-
tude to all who have had a hand in its
creation, and with a sense of exhilaration
and joy that I know will be shared by the
millions of people who will come here to
look, to study, to contemplate, and to be
moved and delighted and ennobled by
what they find here.
This building is a gift of Paul Mellon,
of his late sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce, who's
represented here by her grandchildren,
and of the Andrew Mellon Foundation.
We owe them thanks for the grandeur of
their gift and for the modesty and grace
with which it is given.
This building, too, is the product of
many minds, of many hands, all intent on
giving America their best. All have done
so. I. M. Pei and his associates have given
us an architectural masterpiece.
This great architect saw the unusual
shape of the site not as an obstacle, but as
an opportunity. And he has taken bril-
liant advantage of that opportunity. His
design is sensitive to its surroundings. It is
at once dignified and daring. It is monu-
mental, yet without pomposity. And it re-
flects the human scale. It combines a
reverence for the past with an eagerness
for the future. It's worthy of the thou-
sands of years of artistic creation that will
be seen and studied under its roof.
J. Carter Brown, the Director of the
National Gallery, has untiringly pursued
the vision of a museum for people that
would also be a center for art scholarship.
Many others provided their skills and
talents to this project, from the curators
to the contractors, from the commissioned
artists to the construction workers, who
lovingly crafted each detail of the build-
ing, inside and out.
This beautiful building is an important
addition to that unique repository of
knowledge and culture, the Smithsonian
Institution. Eight of its museums collect
art, art that ranges from Vermeer to Pol-
lock, from the sculpture of Henry Moore
1027
