Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
workers of the Federal Government, is
reasonable. But I can't imagine any cir-
cumstance under which I would favor
mandatory wage and price controls.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, Dick Harwood with
the Washington Post. To further clarify
your remarks on this question of wage and
price restraint, are you proposing that the
52 percent should be a standard for pri-
vate wage settlements this year? And are
you proposing any numerical ceiling or
guideline on price increases?
THE PRESIDENT. No, the level that I
have set as a target for the private sector-
and it's a voluntary compliance provi-
sion is to take the increases for the last
2 years and have the 1978 increases be less
than that 2-year average. And that would
apply to both prices and wages. Once we
turn the corner on inflation and start with
a slight downward trend instead of a con-
tinued upward trend, I think we'd have
a very healthy result throughout the coun-
try without anyone suffering.
As I pointed out, all of us anticipate
continued inflation. We make our plans
accordingly and therefore perpetuate the
inflation rate. There's an underlying in-
flation rate that has existed in our country
now for a number of years of 6 to 6½ per-
cent. I certainly don't want to see that
underlying inflation rate increase. I would
like to bring it downward, and we've set
that as a goal for ourselves.
Last year we met this goal, both in infla-
tion and also in the unemployment rate,
and also in national growth rate. But I
think that if everyone would voluntarily
comply with the standard that I've de-
scribed to you, it would be an extremely
beneficial thing to our country, and no one
would suffer in the process.
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, Christy Bulkeley,
Danville, Illinois, Commercial News. You
expressed concern about the tuition tax
credits that are in Congress.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Do you intend to veto the bill if
it reaches you as proposed, or do you see
an acceptable level of tuition tax credits?
THE PRESIDENT. My present intention
would be to veto any bill that was costly
and which was unconstitutional. All of
the proposals that I have seen in the Con-
gress so far are both costly and uncon-
stitutional, particularly as they apply to
elementary and secondary schools. But
until I see legislation actually on my desk,
I couldn't give you a firm commitment
that I would veto it. But unless those two
provisions are corrected, that I've just
described as potential defects, then I
would veto it.
Q. The second question I asked was,
do
you see a possible compromise on a
level that you would consider acceptable?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't favor tui-
tion tax credits under any circumstance,
even if it was at a very slight level, be-
cause this would inevitably rapidly grow
with each succeeding budget; and the
first thing that you know, tuition tax
credits would be the major Federal ex-
penditure for all education in the United
States. And so, I think that tuition tax
credits itself, as a subject, is very detri-
mental to the future of education in our
country.
It gives the credits to those who need
them least, and it makes the average par-
ent who is a working class person, par-
ticularly who has his children in public
schools, pay for high tax benefits for fam-
ilies in a higher tax group who have their
children in private schools. So, I think the
730
