Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
distribute aid than the loans in the past.
I have said often during the campaign
that I'm not in favor of collecting taxes
from the poor people in our rich country
and giving that money to the rich people
in the poor countries. And that's what
we're trying to do in Government now.
Thank you very much.
EDUCATION
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. My
name is Anne Mary Dulski, and I am from
Mount St. Mary's Seminary here in
Seminary here in
Nashua. I'd like to know why do you pro-
pose to establish a separate department of
education, and would this mean that there
would be more Federal controls on educa-
tion in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not, under any
circumstances, willing to see the Federal
Government have more control over col-
leges, high schools, grammar schools, kin-
dergartens, or any other aspect of public
education or private education in our
Nation. The reason for advocating a sep-
arate department of education has noth-
ing to do with control.
When I was Governor of Georgia, I
spent about 25 percent of my time trying
to have a better education system in our
State. It was a constant challenge for me,
and I was constantly involved in it, work-
ing with the State administrators in edu-
cation, the classroom teachers, PTA
groups, and others.
When I became President, I was deeply
concerned about the quality of education
in our country. We spend enormous sums
of money. We have, in many instances,
young people who graduate from high
school who can't read and write. They
know very little about the political struc-
ture of our own Government. They know
very little about the principles on which
our Nation was founded.
Too many students who have an unde-
tected problem at the third or fourth
grade level are automatically promoted
to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
grade not being able to read and write.
They obviously can't learn other subjects.
And I just feel that there are many ways
in which the Federal Government can
work more closely and in harmony with
the State, local governments and private
institutions to give education a boost.
I haven't spent a half of 1 percent of
my time since I've been President dealing
with education issues. It rarely comes up
in my weekly Cabinet meetings. When it
does, it involves something concerning the
Civil Rights Act or some legal aspect of
education.
Twice, now, since I've been President,
we've had all the State school superin-
tendents come into Washington. The last
time they met with me for an extended
meeting at the White House, in the White
House Mansion itself, to try to get some
way where we could have a cutting down
of paperwork requirements and a much
more active and accurate way to channel
available Federal funds into our educa-
tion system.
I don't think we'll ever have the visi-
bility for education, I don't ever think
we'll have the personal involvement of
the President and the Secretary at the
Cabinet level in education to promote its
good points, to correct its deficiencies, as
long as we have the department of edu-
cation buried underneath health and wel-
fare. I just think it needs to be separate.
Thank you.
introduced in the Senate, in the Govern-
I might say that there has been already
ment Operations Committee under Sena-
tor Ribicoff, a bill that would establish a
separate department, and we will not in-
troduce a separate piece of legislation. We
will add our support politically from the
White House and administration to the
381
