Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
Greater accountability will be built into
the process in the future, since agency
heads are required to publish semiannu-
ally a list of significant regulations which
they are considering or which they have
under review, and because, again, of a
greater opportunity for public involve-
ment before the head of an agency makes
a decision on a regulation.
We have also required in this Executive
order, which I shall soon sign, that agency
heads reassess the effectiveness of exist-
ing regulations to determine not only the
prospective need for regulation that's
new but the continuing of demonstrated
need of existing ones.
When a regulation is determined to be
required, we want it to be the least bur-
densome alternative among many that
are considered. I want to be sure that the
regulations, for a change, will be written
in plain English that I can understand
and that the head of the department can
understand, and that the person who's
written the regulation be identified by
name. I want to have a lot of pride of
authorship in the regulation and not
shame when a regulation is indecipher-
able.
Another requirement in the Executive
order will be that the economic impact
of regulations be assessed, whether or not
they contribute to a burdensome and
costly additional requirement on those
who have to comply with the regulations.
In the major ones we want to be sure
that they don't contribute to inflationary
costs and that they are compatible with
the overall economic policy of our coun-
try.
I will be personally involved in assur-
ing that the Executive order is carried
out. And under me, the Office of Man-
agement and Budget will be working very
closely with the heads of agencies and de-
partments to assure that the spirit and the
letter of the Executive order is honored.
We want to make this a common effort.
The independent regulatory agencies
are not included in the Executive order.
Many of the heads of those agencies are
here. The overwhelming response of al-
most everyone in the initial publication
of the proposed Executive order was that
regulatory agencies should come under
the Executive order. I don't think that's
necessary. I think their independence
should be preserved. But to the extent
that the Executive order is applicable and
advisable, I would certainly hope that the
regulatory agencies would decide to im-
plement them on your own initiative as a
voluntary effort.
You might want to go even further in
some instances than I have done in this
Executive order, because this has to apply
to literally dozens of agencies. And you
might, through your own actions, focus
more nearly on correcting a defect that
exists within the ICC or the FTC or
others.
I'm very pleased that a common effort
has brought this into being, and I'm look-
ing forward to a benefit for our entire
country because of the cooperation that I
expect.
I'd now like to sign the Executive or-
der which I think will be a major step
forward for the people of the United
States, to make my job easier, make your
job easier. I think everyone benefits by
this one; nobody will suffer except peo-
ple who sell typewriter ribbons, and may-
be some of the printers won't have as
much to print. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:31 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the Roosevelt Room
at the White House.
557
