Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 19
tions. This reorganization would permit
more rational decisions on the relative
costs and benefits of alternative ap-
proaches to disasters by making the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency the
focal point of all Federal hazard mitiga-
tion activities and by combining these with
the key Federal preparedness and response
functions.
The affected hazard mitigation activi-
ties include the Federal Insurance Admin-
istration which seeks to reduce flood losses
by assisting states and local governments
in developing appropriate land uses and
building standards and several agencies
that presently seek to reduce fire and
earthquake losses through research and
education.
Most State and local governments have
consolidated emergency planning, pre-
paredness and response functions on an
"all hazard" basis to take advantage of the
similarities in preparing for and respond-
ing to the full range of potential emer-
gencies. The Federal Government can and
should follow this lead.
Each of the changes set forth in the
plan is necessary to accomplish one or
more of the purposes set forth in Section
901 (a) of Title 5 of the United States
Code. The Plan does not call for abolish-
ing any functions now authorized by law.
The provisions in the Plan for the ap-
pointment and pay of any head or officer
of the new agency have been found by me
to be necessary.
I do not expect these actions to result
in any significant changes in program ex-
penditures for those authorities to be
transferred. However, cost savings of be-
tween $10-$15 million annually can be
achieved by consolidating headquarters
and regional facilities and staffs. The elim-
ination (through attrition) of about 300
jobs is also anticipated.
The emergency planning and response
authorities involved in this Plan are vitally
important to the security and well-being
of our Nation. I urge the Congress to ap-
prove it.
The White House,
June 19, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZAtion Plan Number 3 of 1978
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives in Congress assembled, June 19, 1978,
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 9 of
Title 5 of the United States Code.
PART I. FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY
SECTION 101. Establishment of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency.
There is hereby established as an inde-
pendent establishment in the Executive
Branch, the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency (the "Agency").
SECTION 102. The Director. The Agency
shall be headed by a Director, who shall
be appointed by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, and
shall be compensated at the rate now or
hereafter prescribed by law for level II
of the Executive Schedule.
SECTION 103. The Deputy Director.
There shall be within the Agency a Dep-
uty Director, who shall be appointed
by the President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, and shall be
compensated at the rate now or hereafter
prescribed by law for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule. The Deputy Director
shall perform such functions as the Direc-
tor may from time to time prescribe and
shall act as Director during the absence
or disability of the Director or in the event
of a vacancy in the Office of the Director.
SECTION 104. Associate Directors. There
shall be within the Agency not more than
four Associate Directors, who shall be ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, two of
whom shall be compensated at the rate
1131
