Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ent, this has been the first item that he's
brought up: "Please expedite the approval
of the sales of military planes to Israel."
I think that the timing is proper. We're
not trying to shortcircuit the allotted time
for the Congress. As a matter of fact, we
will not begin the process until after the
Congress reconvenes, the Senate recon-
venes. So there will be a full 50 days for the
Congress to consider the matter. Twenty
days after this coming Monday, I'll send
the official papers.
up
So, I don't think it's a bad time to send
it up. I recognized ahead of time that
there would be some controversy about it.
And we did give it second and third
thoughts before I made a decision about
the composition of the package and the
date for submitting it.
Mr. Bradley [Ed Bradley] with CBS.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, back on the subject
of the coal talks, does that 2-day deadline
that Secretary Marshall talked about yes-
terday is that still in effect? And if at the
end of that period they have not reached
agreement, you can invoke the Taft-Hart-
ley Act, but the miners have said they
will not mine the coal and the Army can't.
If you do invoke those provisions and they
refuse to mine coal, what can you do, sir?
The President. Well, that's all spelled
out in the law. The miners, the coal opera-
tors, the Secretary of Labor, I, the Attor-
ney General, the Governors all would like,
if possible, to avoid an invocation of the
Taft-Hartley law and to let the coal dis-
pute, through collective bargaining, lead
to a new and acceptable contract. So
there's no rigid time limit.
If it's obvious to me that progress is
being made, then my preference would be
to keep the bargaining process going.
In the last 24 hours I have detected
progress, and we have not yet been able to
get a final settlement. Even after a settle-
ment is reached at the Labor Department,
even after the bargaining council, who
represents the coal miners, approve the
terms that have been derived with the ne-
gotiating team, it would still have to be
submitted to the union members back
home for their approval. So that would
take 2, 3 weeks. And I think it would
probably take an additional week or so
before coal could start flowing to its desti-
nation after it has been mined.
So we still face a substantial delay. And
I recognize that it's one of the most serious
problems that I've faced as President.
And I believe that the negotiators do, too.
But I'm not trying and don't want to
predict exactly what will happen in the
future. And I don't want to set a rigid
time limit on anyone. But I have had the
urgency of this question imparted by me
personally and constantly by the Secretary
of Labor during the negotiating times.
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
Q. Mr. President, Robert Goldman,
University of Rhode Island. You're an
advocate of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
Will the bill help with providing job op-
portunities for college graduates?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think the Hum-
phrey-Hawkins bill, if passed—and I think
it has a good chance to be passed—would
provide enhanced job opportunities for
college graduates as well as others. It
would set a goal of a 4-percent unemploy-
ment rate, and it would permit me to
judge when this was in conflict with a
control of inflation.
It would also bring into being a much
closer coordination of effort between the
President, the Federal Reserve Banks, the
Congress, and others in the Government
and in private industry to work together.
336
