June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
orders as it deems necessary to carry out
its responsibilities under this order. It
shall advise and offer to consult with the
affected Federal departments and agen-
cies during the development of any pro-
posed rules, regulations, policies, proce-
dures or orders and shall formally submit
such proposed issuances to affected de-
partments and agencies at least 15 work-
ing days prior to public announcement.
The Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission shall use its best efforts to
reach agreement with the agencies on
matters in dispute. Departments and
agencies shall comply with all final rules,
regulations, policies, procedures or orders
of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission.
1-304. All Federal departments and
agencies shall advise and offer to consult
with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission during the development of
any proposed rules, regulations, policies,
procedures or orders concerning equal
employment opportunity. Departments
and agencies shall formally submit such
proposed issuances to the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission and other
interested Federal departments and agen-
cies at least 15 working days prior to
public announcement. The Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission shall
review such proposed rules, regulations,
policies, procedures or orders to ensure
consistency among the operations of the
various Federal departments and agen-
cies. Issuances related to internal man-
agement and administration are exempt
from this clearance process. Case han-
dling procedures unique to a single pro-
gram also are exempt, although the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
may review such procedures in order to
assure maximum consistency within the
Federal equal employment opportunity
program.
1-305. Before promulgating significant
rules, regulations, policies, procedures or
orders involving equal employment op-
portunity, the Commission and affected
departments and agencies shall afford the
public an opportunity to comment.
1-306. The Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission may make recom-
mendations concerning staff size and re-
source needs of the Federal departments
and agencies having equal employment
opportunity responsibilities to the Office
of Management and Budget.
1-307. (a) It is the intent of this order
that disputes between or among agencies
concerning matters covered by this order
shall be resolved through good faith ef-
forts of the affected agencies to reach
mutual agreement. Use of the dispute
resolution mechanism contained in Sub-
sections (b) and (c) of this Section
should be resorted to only in extraordi-
nary circumstances.
(b) Whenever a dispute which cannot
be resolved through good faith efforts
arises between the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission and another
Federal department or agency concern-
ing the issuance of an equal employment
opportunity rule, regulation, policy, pro-
cedure, order or any matter covered by
this Order, the Chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or
the head of the affected department or
agency may refer the matter to the Execu-
tive Office of the President. Such refer-
ence must be in writing and may not be
made later than 15 working days follow-
ing receipt of the initiating agency's no-
tice of intent publicly to announce an
equal employment opportunity rule, reg-
ulation, policy, procedure or order. If no
reference is made within the 15 day
period, the decision of the agency which
initiated the proposed issuance will be-
come effective.
(c) Following reference of a disputed
matter to the Executive Office of the
President, the Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs and Policy (or such
1214
