Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
I recommend substantial simplification
of these provisions. The deductions for
medical and casualty expenses will be
combined, and a new "extraordinary ex-
pense" deduction will be available for
medical and casualty expenses in excess of
10 percent of adjusted gross income. In
the case of casualty losses, the excess over
$100 will be included in this computation.
Medical insurance premiums and medi-
cines will be treated the same as other
medical expenses.
Medical and casualty expenditures
should properly be deductible only when
they are unusually large and have a sig-
nificant impact on the taxpayer's ability
to pay. The medical expense deduction
originally met that standard. But, as a
result of the changing relationship be-
tween medical costs and income, that
standard is no longer satisfied. Substan-
tial recordkeeping burdens and admin-
istrative problems can be eliminated
through the proposed simplification of the
deduction and the redefinition of "ex-
traordinary" in the light of current expe-
rience among taxpayers.
PROPOSALS TO CURTAIL INAPPROPRIATE
SUBSIDIES, SPECIAL PRIVILEGES, INEQUI-
TIES AND ABUSES OF THE TAX SYSTEM
Entertainment and Other Expenditures
for Personal Consumption
One feature of the current tax system
that is most disheartening to average tax-
payers is the favorable tax treatment ac-
corded extravagant entertainment ex-
penses that are claimed to be business-
related. Some individuals are able to
deduct expenditures that provide personal
enjoyment with little or no business bene-
fit. And, even where entertainment ex-
penditures may have some relationship to
the production of income, they provide
untaxed personal benefits to the partici-
pants. More than $2 billion of tax revenue
is lost every year through these tax
preferences.
For example, one person claimed a de-
duction of $17,000 for the cost of enter-
taining other members of his profession
at his home, at a country club, at sporting
events, at restaurants, and at a rental cot-
tage. Another individual wrote off the
cost of business lunches 338 days of the
year at an average cost far exceeding $20
for each lunch. But there is no deduction
in the tax laws for the factory worker's
ticket to a football game or the secretary's
lunch with fellow workers.
These special tax advantages for the
privileged few undermine confidence in
our Nation's tax system. The disparity
must be eliminated by denying a deduc-
tion for expenditures to the extent they
provide the participants with such un-
taxed personal enjoyment and benefits.
(1) Theater and Sporting Events. No
deduction will be permitted for purchases
of tickets to theater and sporting events.
Present law, by allowing a deduction for
the purchase of such tickets, provides a
"two for the price of one" bargain to
some taxpayers. As long as an individual
is in the 50 percent tax bracket or above,
he may be able to invite a business friend
at no cost to himself by having the Federal
government pay for at least one-half of
the total ticket costs. The overwhelming
majority of our citizens pay for their the-
ater and sports tickets out of their own
after-tax dollars. No taxpayer should be
asked to help subsidize someone else's per-
sonal entertainment.
(2) Other Entertainment Expenses.
The tax reform program will also deny
deductibility of any expenses of main-
taining facilities such as yachts, hunting
lodges and swimming pools and for fees
paid to social, athletic, or sporting clubs.
During a recent tax year, one small cor-
poration deducted $67,000 for yacht ex-
penses incurred in entertaining customers
165
