Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
tion) to systematically review the semi-
annual regulation agendas to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER by each execu-
tive department and agency.
• Any of these national organizations
should notify the appropriate executive
department or agency if it believes that
a regulation included on an agency reg-
ulation agenda would have major inter-
governmental significance. Notification
should be made through the senior inter-
governmental officials whose names I an-
nounced in a FEDERAL REGISTER notice
on September 20, 1977.
• Upon receipt of notification from any
of the above named organizations, the
agency shall develop a specific plan for
consultation with State and local govern-
ments in the development of that regula-
tion. Such consultation shall include the
solicitation of comments from the above
named groups, from other representative
organizations and from individual State
and local governments as appropriate.
Consistent with my memorandum to
you of February 25, 1977, whenever
major agency regulations identified as
having major intergovernmental signifi-
cance are submitted to the Office of Man-
agement and Budget for review or are
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER, those
proposed regulations shall be accom-
panied by a brief description of how State
and local governments have been con-
sulted, what the nature of the State and
local comments was, and how the agency
dealt with such comments.
As you implement the new Executive
Order, I expect that you will include in
your revised agency procedures, provi-
sions which will institute intergovern-
mental consultation described in this
memorandum.
Because the goals and procedures of the
new Order duplicate those of the OMB
circular now governing the consultation
process, OMB has rescinded it. However,
nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed as in any way diminishing the
affirmative obligation of the executive de-
partments and agencies to actively seek
out, encourage, and facilitate the submis-
sion of State and local comments in
the development of Federal regulations in
any other ways appropriate to the agency
and the proposed regulation.
JIMMY CARTER
Improving Government
Regulations
Letter to the Heads of Independent
Regulatory Agencies. March 23, 1978
Today I issued an Executive Order to
improve government regulations. This
Order will open up new opportunities for
public participation in the regulatory
process, require regulations to be clearer
and more understandable, and assure
more effective oversight of the develop-
ment of agency regulations.
I believe that this effort is one of the
most important reform initiatives to be
undertaken by my Administration. I have
asked the members of the Cabinet and
other agency heads to give personal pri-
ority and attention to implementing the
Order. To be fully effective and achieve
the full range of needed improvements, I
believe that it would be useful for the
independent regulatory commissions to
initiate a voluntary effort to achieve sim-
ilar procedural reforms.
As you know, public comment on
whether or not to apply these procedures
to independent regulatory agencies was
specifically sought in the November 18,
1977 notice in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
The overwhelming response was that these
agencies should adopt the provisions of
the Order. The public is seeking a change.
They are encouraging us to seek new ap-
proaches to the way in which govern-
ment regulates. They point out that if
563
