Jan. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
realized the importance of this legisla-
tion. It will be the first order of business.
It's the first priority for this year's work.
And it is holding up other very important
matters that the Congress is interested in.
So, I think the answer to your second
question is that, yes, there will be a com-
there will be a com-
promise reached. It will be acceptable to
me and to the country. And I think it will
come very early in this session.
The third thing, what will I do if the
Congress does not act, is something that
I'm not yet prepared to answer. There are
authorities that I have and Dr. James
Schlesinger has as head of the Energy De-
partment that would be much more un-
settling to our Nation's economy-the im-
position of import charges on oil that we
hope to avoid, and I think the Members
of the House and Senate want to avoid
those kinds of disruptive actions just as
much as we do.
The present laws are inadequate to deal
with the increasing problems of the en-
ergy demand, which are met so exces-
sively by imports of oil. I think we do need
to have passed adequate incentives. What
we have proposed to the Congress would
give oil producers for new oil the highest
price in the world, and it would mean
that in natural gas, there would be a sub-
stantial increase in prices to the producers,
compared to what we have had in the
past.
I think our proposal is fair and well bal-
anced, and I think there's a growing con-
sensus within the Congress that this is a
basis on which to reach an agreement.
And I hope to avoid having to take ad-
ministrative action that would be dam-
aging to the economy in order to protect
us in the future.
Q. My followup was simply, were you
surprised at the NAACP's opposition to
your program, and do you think it'll have
an impact?
THE PRESIDENT. I was surprised. I
talked to the president of the NAACP this
morning, Benjamin Hooks. He said the
major thrust of their report was that they
want to have a sustained growth in the
economy and therefore provide additional
jobs for people in our Nation. But I dis-
agree strongly with the conclusion the
NAACP reached, that the way to do that
was to channel enormous sums of money,
$40, $50, $60, $70 billion into the pockets
of those who own the major oil compa-
nies, out of the pockets of consumers.
I want to have a strong economy, too.
But I don't think that's the right way to
do it.
SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, everywhere you trav-
eled, except Poland, we were told that
you and the leaders talked about Soviet
and Cuban penetration in the Horn of
Africa, but we only got very generalized
and vague statements on this. Can you
enunciate the depth of our concern, and
what can we do about it except jawbone?
THE PRESIDENT. We've taken a posi-
tion concerning Africa that we would use
our influence to bring about peace with-
out shipping arms to the disputing parties
and without our injecting ourselves into
disputes that could best be resolved by
Africans, both those parties that are in
dispute and the Organization of African
Unity. The Soviets have done just the
opposite.
They, in effect, contributed to the war
that's presently taking place between So-
malia and Ethiopia. They sold excessive
quantities of arms and weapons both to
Somalia and to Ethiopia. The war began
using Soviet weapons, and now they are
shipping large quantities of weapons,
some men, and they are also dispatching
Cubans into Ethiopia, perhaps to become
combatants themselves. We have ex-
56
