Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
partment, in protecting our country
against subversion. And there has to be
a careful balancing there between strength
in protecting our country and the protec-
tion of the basic rights of American peo-
ple. We've seen during the Nixon years
that this can be abused.
Bill Hathaway happens to be the
chairman of the subcommittee that looks
into the financing, the budget of the In-
telligence Community. And he did the
first complete audit of how funds are
spent and whether they were legal. And
his work and those of others on that com-
mittee have been responsible already for
the preparation of an Executive order
that I issued recently, in close cooperation
with the Senators involved, that I think
brings order out of the chaos that pre-
viously existed in the management of this
sensitive area of our country.
And now legislation is being prepared
for the first time to spell out the author-
ity, responsibility, and the limitations in
the collection, dissemination of intelli-
gence, and the protection of our country
against counterintelligence.
Just in one day in my life as President,
I had encounters with Bill Hathaway. In
the morning, I met with the intelligence
committee to talk about these things that
I've just described to you. And later on
that day I signed the small business assist-
ance legislation for 2 years to help small
business people. That was authored by,
you guessed it, Bill Hathaway.
It's a very fine record and one that
quite often is not adequately recognized
around the Nation, because Hathaway is
a Senator who doesn't protect his own
achievements by personally bragging
about them. He doesn't call press con-
ferences to say, "Look what I did," or
"Look at the error I found," or "Look at
the advantage that I've now achieved for
the people back in Maine or the United
States." He's almost too reticent. But his
peers in the U.S. Senate and his executive
partner in the White House recognize the
stature and the competence of this man.
He's had a special responsibility also
in career education, which is important
to me as a person who's had to work all
my life. And I come from a part of the
country that's very poor; many parts of
Maine are very poor.
Those who grow crops under the
ground have something in common. We
don't make much money. [Laughter] And
a lot of our children don't have a chance
to get an advanced education and career
education. And the matching of the grad-
uates of our vocational schools, high
schools, technical schools, with the job
opportunities has been the special prov-
ince in the United States Senate of Sen-
ator Bill Hathaway. And he's the author
of that legislation that I signed into law
this past December.
I won't mention many other things, but
I would like to say that he is a coauthor
of the Older Americans Act, and a lot of
people don't know it.
I've been all over the country during
the campaign to meet with, and I've eaten
many lunches with older people in a ren-
ovated old building, and I've also been
into homes when the meals on wheels
were served.
I'll bet you not more than a thousand
people in the whole country know that
Bill Hathaway was the coauthor of the
legislation that treats older people with
dignity and respect and compassion.
And the last thing I'd like to say in just
a brief few minutes is he knows his own
State. He has a special interest in textile
workers. Georgia has 60,000 textile work-
ers. And Bill understands them and fights
for them. He understands and knows the
potato farmers. He protects them and he
fights for them. He understands the capa-
bilities of the shipbuilding opportunities
343
