Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
regulations were simpler, less burdensome,
and more clearly understandable, people
would be better able to comply with them.
I believe that the new spirit of open-
ness, simplicity and clarity advocated in
this Executive Order responds to the pub-
lic's concerns. I know that many impor-
tant reforms are already underway in the
independent agencies and I believe that
the requirements of the Order comple-
ment these efforts. I am asking you as
Chairman of your agency to initiate your
own program to incorporate the provi-
sions of the Order. In addition, it would
be useful for you to report progress on
your efforts to the Congress and to me by
June 30, 1978. I look forward to review-
ing these reports.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Chairmen of the Civil Aeronau-
tics Board, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Consumer Product Safety
Commission, the Federal Communications
Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, the Federal Election Commission,
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the
Federal Maritime Commission, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the National Labor
Relations Board, the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission, the Occupational Safety and Health
Review Commission, the Postal Rate Commis-
sion, and the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission.
Meeting With Prime Minister
James Callaghan of the
United Kingdom
Remarks on the Departure of the Prime
Minister. March 23, 1978
The President. I am sorry we kept you
waiting for a few minutes, but I would
like to point out again how delighted we
are to have Prime Minister Callaghan
come for an overly brief visit with us.
He's here in our country visiting his
daughter, son-in-law, and his grandchil-
dren, and a month or so ago we made ar-
rangements for him to come and consult
with me on some very important matters
that affect our countries.
Prime Minister Callaghan has a superb
background in the British Government
concerning economics, and we all rec-
ognize and have had thorough discussions
about the possibilities for multilateral ac-
tion to improve the economic circum-
stances of the trading world.
Obviously, each country has to take its
own initiatives against unemployment,
against inflation, for the stabilization of
currencies, for the enhancement of trade,
for the conservation and proper use of
energy, to prevent protectionist senti-
ments putting an obstruction before the
progress of the standard of living of peo-
ple in the world. And we've discussed all
those matters this morning.
We've outlined to the British leaders
some of the actions that we have in mind
as possibilities. We've discussed our pri-
vate conversations with the leaders of
Germany, Japan, France, other trading
partners.
Prime Minister Callaghan will be back
here again in May, along with other
heads of state, to consult on NATO mat-
ters, and we'll have a chance for political
and economic discussions at that time.
And I'll be joining with him and others
in Bonn in July at an economic summit.
But we have been very gratified at his
initiative in coming here. We will be con-
sulting with other leaders as well. Prime
Minister Fukuda will come to visit me
personally later on this spring.
The harmony that exists between our-
selves and Great Britain is a very gratify-
ing thing for a President. This has been
a sustaining factor in our lives in this coun-
564
