Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
cluding the authority to amend, modify,
or revoke such assignments, was trans-
ferred to the Secretary of Commerce.
2–102. This authority, which was orig-
inally vested in the President by Section
305(a) of the Communications Act of
1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 305 (a)),
was transferred and assigned to the Di-
rector of the Office of Telecommunica-
tions Policy by Section 1 of Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 of 1970 and Section 3 of
Executive Order No. 11556.
2-103. The authority to assign fre-
quencies to radio stations is subject to the
authority to dispose of appeals from fre-
quency assignments as set forth in Section
3-2 of this Order.
2-2. Construction of Radio Stations.
2-201. The authority to authorize a
foreign government to construct and op-
erate a radio station at the seat of govern-
ment of the United States was transferred
to the Secretary of Commerce. Author-
ization for the construction and operation
of a radio station pursuant to this author-
ity and the assignment of a frequency for
its use can be made only upon recom-
mendation of the Secretary of State and
after consultation with the Attorney Gen-
eral and the Chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission.
Order No. 11191, as amended by Execu-
tive Order No. 11556. The functions in-
clude authority vested in the President by
Section 201 (a) of the Communications
Satellite Act of 1962 (76 Stat. 421, 47
U.S.C. 721(a)). These functions are
specifically set forth in the following pro-
visions of this Section.
(a) Aid in the planning and develop-
ment of the commercial communications
satellite system and aid in the execution.
of a national program for the operation
of such a system.
(b) Conduct a continuous review of
all phases of the development and opera-
tion of such system, including the activi-
ties of the Corporation.
(c) Coordinate, in consultation with
the Secretary of State, the activities of
governmental agencies with responsibili-
ties in the field of telecommunications, so
as to insure that there is full and effective
compliance at all times with the policies
set forth in the Act.
(d) Make recommendations to the
President and others as appropriate, with
respect to all steps necessary to insure the
availability and appropriate utilization of
the communications satellite system for
general government purposes in conso-
nance with Section 201 (a) (6) of the Act.
(e) Help attain coordinated and effi-
cient use of the electromagnetic spectrum
and the technical compatibility of the
communications satellite system with ex-
2-202. This authority, which was
originally vested in the President by Sec-
tion 305(d) of the Communications Act
of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 305),
was delegated to the Director of the Of-isting communications facilities both in
fice of Telecommunications Policy by
Section 5 of Executive Order No. 11556.
2-3. Communications Satellite System.
2-301. Certain functions relating to
the communications satellite system were
transferred to the Secretary of Com-
merce. Those functions were delegated or
assigned to the Director of the Office of
Telecommunications Policy by Executive
the United States and abroad.
(f) Assist in the preparation of Presi-
dential action documents for considera-
tion by the President as may be appropri-
ate under Section 201 (a) of the Act,
make necessary recommendations to the
President in connection therewith, and
keep the President currently informed
with respect to the carrying out of the
Act.
599
