Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
ple, that people ought to control their
government, not let government control
them, and that public officials should
never forget who put us in office, and that
we don't know all the answers at the State
capital or the National Capital. The
answers must be derived, even to most
complicated questions involving foreign
policy and national defense, from people
like you all over our great Nation.
Today, we come to think about a par-
ticular aspect of American life. Since the
days when I was a State legislator and
then a Governor in Georgia, I've under-
stood the special need to promote en-
vironmental and historical perspective
and preservation. This is a place of lasting
value that is also an economic boom to
your whole entire region and State. I'm
glad that the Federal Government has
been able to join-not in a leadership role,
but a supporting role-State government,
the city of Spokane, and business interests
like your railroads and the Land Re-
sources Corporation, in creating some-
thing that brings enjoyment and prosper-
ity to so many people.
Riverfront Park also shows very clearly
what can be accomplished in urban re-
development. You've transformed an
area that was declining, that was
far short of its great potential, into one
of the Nation's most innovative and re-
freshing urban settings. I have proposed,
as part of my own administration's new
urban policy, a $150 million urban park
and recreation program which can make
possible, under Cecil Andrus' leadership,
other parks like your own beautiful one
here. And it also shows in a symbolic way
the continuing relationship between
energy and the environment.
Most of the Federal share that helped
build this park came from our lease
revenues from oil and gas production on
the Outer Continental Shelf. My admin-
istration is committed to the belief that we
can meet our Nation's energy needs and
continue to protect and to enhance our ir-
replaceable natural environment. As those
of you who have come from Coeur
d'Alene know firsthand, we have in Cecil
Andrus a Secretary of Interior from Idaho
who's deeply and personally committed to
that goal.
In the 15 months since I became Presi-
dent, my administration and the Con-
gress have begun to tackle the most dif-
ficult problems facing our country. I've
come here to listen to the people of this
region and to ask your help for the pro-
grams and policies we need.
Later on today, I'll be facing for an
extended period of time many of you and
your fellow citizens in a direct interchange
of questions and ideas, where there is no
constraint on what you want to ask me
or to suggest to me in how I can be a
better President.
To solve the problems of our decade,
we must recapture what is best in our
national spirit. We must be willing to put
aside regional differences. We must be
willing to put aside, also, our special in-
terests, our selfish grasping for advantage,
and contribute to the general good. We
must be willing to make sacrifices so that
others will follow our lead. Because I am
confident that our Nation is ready for
that kind of challenge, and because we
have no alternative except to face diffi-
cult problems, I've asked the Congress
and the people to work with me in areas
of greatest challenge.
On energy, we must act to conserve
and to produce more, to import less, and
develop alternative sources. On infla-
tion, we must work together in a spirit
of cooperation and restraint to slow the
rising costs that threaten the economic
security and the well-being of every
American family. It's here that our
greatest challenge may come. We cannot
859
