Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Union address, we cannot do everything
for everybody. We must be willing to face
difficult decisions.
In developing our economic program,
we've made difficult decisions, and we
propose an economic proposal or program
that will sustain growth, that will increase
employment, and reduce inflation.
SOVIET COSMOS SATELLITE
The other thing I would like to do very
briefly is to outline the history of the Soviet
satellite, the Cosmos 954. This satellite,
which had a nuclear power source on it,
was launched on the 18th of September,
last year. It was obvious to us later on that
the Soviets were having trouble control-
ling the satellite. On the 19th of Decem-
ber, we set up a small task force in the
White House. On the 6th of January, we
felt that control had been lost, and I de-
cided personally to notify the Soviets on
the 12th of January that we were aware
of their problems, to offer our help in
monitoring the path of the satellite, and
to begin preparing jointly to predict where
it would fall and also to prepare for han-
dling it if it should contact the Earth.
The Soviets replied that it was designed
so that it would be destroyed as it came
back into Earth, and it was designed also
so there was no possibility of an atomic
explosion.
On the 17th and 18th of January, we
notified the key congressional leaders,
some of our allies around the world who
were capable of joining us in a tracking
effort. And the Soviets a day later, on the
19th, repeated their comment it will not
explode.
On the 22d of January, we went back
to the Soviets to ask them to give us an
update to confirm the information we had
from monitoring sources. And on the 23d
of January, the Soviets, notified us that it
would probably enter the atmosphere the
following day, which is the 24th.
Early on the morning of the 24th, I was
notified that the satellite would enter the
atmosphere quite early. We did not know
whether it would hit between Hawaii on
a very high curve up to the northern part
of Canada or the western coast of Africa,
because sometimes the satellites can skip
from one place to another as they enter
the atmosphere. It, as you know, entered
the atmosphere in Canada.
I immediately called Prime Minister
Pierre Trudeau, informed him about the
approximate location, which later turned
out to be accurate. And on the 29th, as
you know, just recently, the remains of the
satellite have been recovered.
The last satellite we put into Earth
orbit with an atomic power source was in
1965. This satellite at the conclusion of its
useful life was raised into a higher orbit
that has a lifespan of at least 4,000 years.
I think we need to have more rigid
safety precautions assured among all na-
tions in Earth-orbiting satellites. In fact,
we would be glad to forgo the deployment
of any such satellite altogether and will
pursue that option along with the Soviet
Union.
The only time a satellite needs a long-
lasting power source that's free of the use
of solar energy, which can be derived from
the Sun, is when you go into deep outer
space. For instance, if we send a probe to
the outer planets, there would not be ade-
quate source of energy from the Sun to
trigger our solar cells, and we might need
power from atomic sources then.
But I see no reason for us to continue
with the option of nations to have Earth-
orbiting satellites unless much more ad-
vanced safety precautions can be initiated.
QUESTIONS
U.S. ARMS SALES IN THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, since I assume the
subject will come up when you meet with
244
