Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Last year we were growing much
faster than our major trading partners
Germany, Great Britain, Italy, France,
Japan, and others. This year those other
nations will have a faster growth, which
means that they can buy more of our
goods and cut down on our adverse bal-
ance of payments. So, for all these reasons
and others that I could describe, I think
the prospects for a stable dollar are very
good.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Did you discuss human rights and
any specifics at all, and particularly, did
you discuss Uganda and Idi Amin in re-
gards to human rights?
THE PRESIDENT. We did not discuss
Uganda. I did mention in my speech
yesterday my gratitude that the Organiza-
tion of African States has shown fit not
only to condemn white nations when they
deprive persons of human rights but also
condemn black leaders, as well, where
human rights are abridged.
We did discuss the question of human
rights. There is no difference, of course,
between our Government, Nigeria and
the United States, because we recognize
that within our own countries, we have
made every effort to enhance human
rights. I think political oppressions and
the right of people to participate in their
government is one that has good pros-
pects of even greater improvement in the
future.
We also discussed the problem of
human rights that accrue because of
poverty―deprived of a right of a place
to live and to adequate food and cloth-
ing and education and health care. And
through our own contributions to the
African Development Bank, our
contributions to the International Mone-
tary Fund, the World Bank, through di-
rect bilateral aid, which primarily goes
to the very poor countries, and through
increased trade and technical service to
countries that have had good success, like
Nigeria, we are trying to alleviate those
human rights and deprivations that come
from poverty.
So, we have a very close relationship
in our commitment to human rights be-
tween ourselves and the Nigerians, and
also we have a very good, permanent,
personal friendship between myself, Gen-
eral Obasanjo, and other leaders of our
Government, which is very helpful to us.
We have benefited just as much in the
United States from our good relation-
ships with Nigeria as have the Nigerians,
and although it has been very good his-
torically and at the present time, we be-
lieve that those relations are going to be
even better than in the years to come.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The session began at 12:25 p.m. at
the State House Marina, following the de-
parture of General Obasanjo.
As printed above, the item follows the White
House press release.
Lagos, Nigeria
Toasts at the State Dinner. April 2, 1978
GENERAL OBASANJO. President Jimmy
Carter and Mrs. Carter, distinguished
guests:
It gives me great pleasure and satisfac-
tion, Mr. President, to once again wel-
come you and Mrs. Carter to Nigeria on
behalf of the Government of Nigeria and
in the name of the entire people of our
country.
Your presence with us, historic in itself
as the first state visit ever undertaken by a
President of the United States of America
to this part of the world, is of unique
significance.
It is also gratifying that you are visiting
Nigeria so soon after my own visit to your
great country, thus affording us the op-
654
