Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
under social security will be substantially
enhanced because they'll have a higher
level of income on which to base their ulti-
mate monthly retirement benefits. So, I
think that in balance that the purposes are
met.
As far as the choice between $20 billion
and $30 billion or $25 billion or $15 bil-
lion or $35 billion-that's somewhat of an
arbitrary figure. I wanted to be sure that
our deficit this year, this coming year, was
no larger than the one this year, in spite
of the tax decrease. A $25 billion tax re-
duction shows up as a $15 billion or $20
billion net increase in the deficit. Without
that, we would have had a substantial
reduction. That's one factor.
Next year, the deficit would be much
less than it is in the '79 budget. I wanted
to be sure we didn't contribute to in-
creased inflation. And this is another im-
portant matter. I think that we wanted to
have some economic stimulation.
Our goal is to continue a downward
trend in unemployment, although it would
be a slight downward trend as we project
it in 1978. And I wanted to try to have a
target of 43/4 to 5 percent on increasing
the GNP in real terms.
In our judgment, mine and the econo-
mists who work with me-the Secretary
of Treasury, Commerce, and others—the
$25 billion figure was the one that best fit
all those requirements.
SOCIAL SECURITY
Q. Mr. President, it was mentioned
earlier this morning that there may be
some reconsideration being given to the
social security bill. Can you comment on
that? Are you reconsidering or do you
know if the Members of Congress are
reconsidering?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think all of the
Members of Congress are concerned. As
you know, the bill that was passed by
Congress was much more costly to the
working families, the taxpayers, than the
one we proposed.
We thought that there ought to be some
shift of funds from one social security
reserve fund to another when needed, and
that when the inflation rate and the un-
employment rate had an exceptionally
high drain on the social security system,
that general funds should be used and
triggered for those transient times.
The Congress rejected both those ele-
ments and put all the burden of paying
the social security increase on the working
families themselves. I think there will be a
continuing reassessment of how to better
balance the origin of the funds.
With a lowered unemployment rate
and, I guess, more specifically, a much
higher participation in the labor force,
you tend to build up the reserve funds for
a given level of taxation. That will help. I
think the unemployment compensation
payments are dropping off.
So, a growing economy will help us to
protect the integrity of the social security
system. The present level of social security
payments is completely attributable not to
this past year's legislation, but to previous
legislation that had built in automatic in-
creases. And that's something that the
public has forgotten, as well. But I don't
see any substantial change in the social
security income and payment.
The system has got to have fiscal integ-
rity on a permanent basis. And I think
this will provide it. There may be some
modification by the Congress in the future
of exactly where the origin of those funds
might be and more flexibility in shifting
money from one fund to another.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The President. Thank all of you. I've
really enjoyed being with you and hope
312
