Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
MR. JARRETT. Mr. President, there's
not a single black leader in this country,
however low on the totempole that he
or she may be, who does not show a pro-
found concern about the Humphrey-
Hawkins bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. JARRETT. We know that you had
some reservations about it even when you
were campaigning for the Presidency. Are
you at this moment willing to call together
the leaders of the Democratic Party to
launch a massive assault on unemploy-
ment through Humphrey-Hawkins? Or is
this something that you've had to just al-
most back into through the different
amendments that have come up? Is there
going to be a real serious campaign from
your office to get that bill passed?
The President. Yes. We're completely
committed to Humphrey-Hawkins. And
I think, as you know, that was a proposal
that had been in the Congress for years.
It had been sitting around having a great
difficulty getting out of committee, get-
ting on the floor for a vote, because of the
absence of support in the past from the
White House.
When I got in office, it had support
from the White House. We worked with
Senator Humphrey before his death, with
Gus Hawkins in the House, my own do-
mestic staff did. And we put together a
proposal that we can support enthusias-
tically, which we are supporting enthusi-
astically, which the Democratic leader-
ship in
in the House has supported
enthusiastically, which can pass the Con-
gress and which can be implemented. And
I think we've removed all those aggrava-
tions that were brought about by delay
and are moving expeditiously.
My prediction is the Humphrey-Haw-
kins bill will pass this year.
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS
MR. BRYANT. Mr. President, it seems
that some of the things that have been
mentioned so far that have led to some
dissatisfaction or at least disappointment
with the administration thus far, to which
you have responded that, of course, it's
difficult. And even though you've made
some strides comparably to the Republi-
can administration, it doesn't seem like
much. Is there anything that you're pre-
pared to do that would dramatically—
I hesitate to use the word "drastically,"
but dramatically-show where your com-
mitment and interests are?
We are 10 years away from the Kerner
Commission report, which indicated we
had an America that was divided, black
and white, separate and unequal. And
now we literally have a third member of
permanently disadvantaged, irrevocably
that group, that is, the underclass, the
lost in poverty and economic strife.
Is there something that your adminis-
tration can do that would perhaps even
entail some political risk on your part, but
that would dramatically show where
Jimmy Carter and the Democratic ad-
ministration is with regard to black peo-
ple in America?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would really
rather be measured by the actual achieve-
ments of my administration and not just
on public relations stunts that might be
dramatic, but not bring in any real divi-
dends.
MR. BRYANT. I'm not suggesting a pub-
lic relations stunt as much as something
substantive and real that would get to the
people at the bottom of this broad-based
pyramid that we live in, that-
THE PRESIDENT. But when you start
examining the results of our programs—
better health care for young people under
our CHAPS program; better housing
under the newly revived Housing and
693
