Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
clear Fuel Cycle Evaluation is under way.
As this legislation now becomes law, we
are establishing clear criteria and incen-
tives for nuclear cooperation, as well as
sanctions against violations of safeguards.
Although I still have reservations about
the numerous provisions in this act which
state that Congress may invalidate or
approve executive branch action by con-
current resolution, I am signing it because
of its overwhelming importance to our
nonproliferation policy. I do wish to
make clear, however, that by signing this
act, I am not agreeing that the Congress
can overturn authorized executive actions
through procedures not provided in the
Constitution.
In conclusion, I am persuaded that the
new criteria, incentives, and procedures
in this act will help solve the problems of
proliferation. They will help to ensure
that access to nuclear energy will not be
accompanied by the spread of nuclear ex-
plosive capability. While I recognize that
some of these provisions may involve ad-
justments by our friends abroad, this
more comprehensive policy will greatly
increase international security. I believe
that they will ultimately join us in our
belief that improved world security justi-
fies the steps which we all must take to
bring it about. Control over the spread of
nuclear weapons on our planet is one of
the paramount questions of our time.
If the world is to benefit from the great
potential of nuclear power, we must act
now to protect ourselves and future gen-
erations from its worst dangers. We in the
United States will dedicate our expertise
and technical resources to this task, and
we urge other countries to do the same.
Let us continue to work together to
achieve these goals.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8638 is Public Law
95-242, approved March 10.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. March 10, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report a
new Department of Agriculture deferral
of Forest Service funds totalling $4.5 mil-
lion in budget authority. In addition, I am
reporting a routine revision to a previously
reported deferral of Forest Service funds,
increasing the amount deferred by $4.8
million.
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
March 10, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the de-
ferrals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER
of March 16, 1978.
Meeting With Israeli Defense
Minister Ezer Weizman
White House Statement. March 10, 1978
The President met this afternoon for
70 minutes with Israeli Defense Minister
Ezer Weizman for an exchange of views
on the security situation in the Middle
East and the status of the current peace
negotiations.
The President assured the Defense Min-
ister that United States commitment to
the strength and security of Israel was a
fundamental aspect of American Middle
East policy and would continue to be in
the future.
The President reviewed the close co-
operation which currently exists between
Israel and the United States on security
matters, noting that he had approved in
502
