Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment to technologies we cannot yet safely
manage on a commercial scale; and we
are seeking to persuade others that there
are sound economic and energy reasons
for them to do likewise.
Arms Sales
The world is threatened by the spiral-
ing increase in trade of conventional
arms. Not only do these arms increase the
likelihood of conflict, they also divert re-
sources from other human needs. It will
not be easy to slow this spiral. We will
begin to cut back on our own sales in rec-
ognition of the fact that, as the world's
principal seller, we have a duty to take
the first step. But we know that our ef-
forts can only succeed if other major arms
suppliers and recipients cooperate.
TIES WITH FRIENDS AND ALLIES
The energy crisis has underscored the
reality of interdependence among nations
and the need for a stable international fi-
nancial and trading system. Our own ac-
tions reflect the belief that consultations
with traditional friends and dialogue with
developing nations are the only way that
the United States can provide the eco-
nomic and political leadership which the
world expects of us.
Working with the Allies
During the past year, the United States
restored our traditional friends and allies
to the center of our foreign policy. Within
days after his inauguration, the Vice
President visited Brussels, Rome, Bonn,
Paris, Reykjavík, and Tokyo. I met fre-
quently in Washington with European
and Japanese leaders. I participated in
the Economic Summit in London, the
1977 NATO Summit, and a Four-Power
Summit with leaders of Britain, Germany,
and France. At the beginning of 1978, I
visited France and Belgium—and while
in Brussels, made the first visit by an
American President to the headquarters
of the European Community. We have
also consulted with our European Allies
on such diverse subjects as SALT, MBFR,
the Middle East, Africa, human rights,
the Belgrade Conference, energy, non-
proliferation, the global economy, and
North-South relations. We will intensify
these efforts this year, expanding the list
to include close consultations with the
Allies on major arms control issues.
On May 30-31, we will host a NATO
Summit in Washington, and we are also
planning another Economic Summit this
year.
We have shown in our dealings with
Japan that close allies can find solutions
to shared problems. Early in the year,
we were concerned about nuclear reproc-
essing in Japan, but through flexibility
and goodwill on both sides a suitable ac-
commodation was reached on the building
of a nuclear reprocessing plant there.
Most recently, we reached agreement with
the Japanese on ways to deal with their
large current account surplus. Our trade
and economic talks are another example
of constructive action.
International Economic Cooperation
We are working to improve and extend
the international economic system, to
strengthen international economic institu-
tions, and to ensure that international
economic competition takes place in an
orderly fashion. We will seek to improve
cooperation among nations in the IMF,
the GATT, the World Bank, the OECD,
and other international organizations
which have enabled us to maintain an
open, liberal, trade and payments system.
118
