Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
As I said earlier, we've initiated zero-
based budgeting. We've begun to cut back
on paperwork. We're eliminating unnec-
essary regulations and constraints on the
free enterprise system and also on private
citizens. We've made substantial progress
with OSHA, for instance, which is one
of the most highly criticized Federal
programs.
I think that we have brought some
constructive ideas to Washington, derived
from our long campaigning around the
Nation and also from my own experiences
as President.
We've got a superb Cabinet. There's
not a single member of the Cabinet that
sits around this table every Monday morn-
ing that I would want to change. I'm
proud of every one of them. They're indi-
vidualistic. They run their own depart-
ments without interference from me. They
consult with me and the other Cabinet
officers on basic policy. There's a har-
mony among them that's almost unprece-
dented, and the harmony exists, too,
among people within the White House
staff and between the White House staff
and the Cabinet. Some of these things are
quite different than they have been in the
past.
When we deal with the Soviets on
SALT or a comprehensive test ban, or
when we deal with the Middle East
ques-
tion, I don't have to worry about conten-
tiousness or jealousy or lack of communi-
cation or an incompatibility between the
national security adviser, the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secre-
tary of Treasury, and others.
This has not always been the case.
We've still got a lot of faults, of course,
but I think in these ways, we've improved
the situation in Washington. That's a
completely objective and unbiased
opinion. [Laughter]
SECOND TERM IN OFFICE
Q. Mr. President, Marx Gibson from
Joliet, Illinois. You said you've enjoyed
the first year in the White House. When
will you decide if you're going to try for a
second term, and are you aware of Gov-
ernor Thompson from Illinois' interests in
replacing you here?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to your
first question is I don't know, and the
answer to the second question is no.
[Laughter]
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, I gather there's some
concern at the State Department over the
course of Middle East negotiations, spe-
cifically a feeling that President Sadat's
initiative has not really been matched so
far by Israel and specifically a feeling that
Israeli action over the settlements has not
been helpful.
Do you feel that the Israeli response so
far has been satisfactory, or do you simply
feel that it would be impolitic for you to
exert the influence that, I guess, some
people at the State Department are urging
you to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any
urging that has originated in the State
Department to which I have not re-
sponded to their satisfaction. Cy Vance
and I, you know, are constantly working
together, along with the Vice President
and Dr. Brzezinski and all of the staff that
work under all of us, to make sure that
our approach to the Middle East is care-
fully considered.
We have a limited role to play. We are
there to be constructive and to respond
to their requests and to be active when
there's a dormant situation in the Middle
East; to be much more reticent when we
think progress is being made without us.
70
