Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
That purpose is unchanged. But the
world has been changing, and our re-
sponses as a nation must change with it.
This morning I would like to talk to
you about our national security-where
we now stand, what new circumstances
we face, and what we are going to do in
the future.
Let me deal at the beginning with
some myths. One myth is that this coun-
try somehow is pulling back from pro-
tecting its interests and its friends around
the world. That is not the case, as will
be explained in this speech and demon-
strated in our actions as a nation.
Another myth is that our defense
budget is too burdensome and consumes
an undue part of our Federal revenues.
National defense is, of course, a large and
important item of expenditures, but it
represents only about 5 percent of our
gross national product and about a quar-
ter of our current Federal budget.
It also is a mistake to believe that our
country's defense spending is mainly for
intercontinental missiles or nuclear weap-
ons. Only about 10 percent of our defense
budget goes for strategic forces or for nu-
clear deterrence. More than 50 percent is
simply to pay for and support the serv-
ices of the men and women in our Armed
Forces.
Finally, some believe that because we
do possess nuclear weapons of great de-
structive power, that we need do nothing
more to guarantee our Nation's security.
Unfortunately, it's not that simple.
Our potential adversaries have now
built up massive forces armed with con-
ventional weapons-tanks, aircraft, in-
fantry, mechanized units. These forces
could be used for political blackmail, and
they could threaten our vital interests
unless we and our allies and friends have
our own military strength and conven-
tional forces as a counterbalance.
Of course, our national security rests on
more than just military power. It depends
partly on the productive capacity of our
factories and our farms, on an adequate
supply of natural resources with which
God has blessed us, on an economic sys-
tem which values human freedom above
centralized control, on the creative ideas
of our best minds, on the hard work,
cohesion, moral strength, and determina-
tion of the American people, and on the
friendship of our neighbors to the north
and south.
Our security depends on strong bonds
with our allies and on whether other na-
tions seek to live in peace and refrain
from trying to dominate those who live
around them.
But adequate and capable military
forces are still an essential element of our
national security. We, like our ancestors,
have the obligation to maintain strength
equal to the challenges of the world in
which we live, and we Americans will
continue to do so.
Let us review briefly how national secu-
rity issues have changed over the past
decade or two.
The world has grown both more com-
plex and more interdependent. There is
now a division among the Communist
powers. The old colonial empires have
fallen, and many new nations have risen
in their place. Old ideological labels have
lost some of their meaning.
There have also been changes in the
military balance among nations. Over the
past 20 years, the military forces of the
Soviets have grown substantially, both in
absolute numbers and relative to our own.
There also has been an ominous inclina-
tion on the part of the Soviet Union to
use its military power-to intervene in
local conflicts, with advisers, with equip-
ment, and with full logistical support and
encouragement for mercenaries from
531
