June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
authority is delegated in accordance with 1-202, and 1–203, and by officials with
Section 1-204:
The Secretary of Commerce
The Secretary of Transportation
The Administrator, Agency for Inter-
national Development
The Director, International Commu-
nication Agency
1-203. Confidential. Authority for
original classification of information as
Confidential may be exercised only by
such officials as the President may desig-
nate by publication in the FEDeral Reg-
ISTER, by the agency heads listed below,
by officials who have Top Secret or Secret
classification authority, and by officials to
whom such authority is delegated in ac-
cordance with Section 1-204:
The President and Chairman, Export-
Import Bank of the United States
The President and Chief Executive Of-
ficer, Overseas Private Investment
Corporation
1-204. Limitations on Delegation of
Classification Authority.
may
be
(a) Authority for original classifica-
tion of information as Top Secret
delegated only to principal subordinate
officials who have a frequent need to ex-
ercise such authority as determined by
the President or by agency heads listed
in Section 1-201.
(b) Authority for original classifica-
tion of information as Secret may be
delegated only to subordinate officials
who have a frequent need to exercise such
authority as determined by the President,
by agency heads listed in Sections 1-201
and 1–202, and by officials with Top Se-
cret classification authority.
(c) Authority for original classifica-
tion of information as Confidential may
be delegated only to subordinate officials
who have a frequent need to exercise such
authority as determined by the President,
by agency heads listed in Sections 1-201,
Top Secret classification authority.
(d) Delegated original classification
authority may not be redelegated.
(e) Each delegation of original clas-
sification authority shall be in writing by
name or title of position held.
(f) Delegations of original classifica-
tion authority shall be held to an absolute
minimum. Periodic reviews of such dele-
gations shall be made to ensure that the
officials so designated have demonstrated
a continuing need to exercise such au-
thority.
1-205. Exceptional Cases. When an
employee or contractor of an agency that
does not have original classification au-
thority originates information believed to
require classification, the information
shall be protected in the manner pre-
scribed by this Order and implementing
directives. The information shall be trans-
mitted promptly under appropriate safe-
guards to the agency which has appro-
priate subject matter interest and classifi-
cation authority. That agency shall de-
cide within 30 days whether to classify
that information. If it is not clear which
agency should get the information, it shall
be sent to the Director of the Information
Security Oversight Office established in
Section 5-2 for a determination.
1-3. Classification Requirements.
1-301. Information may not be con-
sidered for classification unless it con-
cerns:
(a) military plans, weapons, or opera-
tions;
(b) foreign government information;
(c) intelligence activities, sources or
methods;
(d) foreign relations or foreign activ-
ities of the United States;
(e) scientific, technological, or eco-
nomic matters relating to the national
security;
1196
