Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 15
SEC. 3. Functions of Panels. (a) A
panel shall begin functioning when the
President or his designee notifies its
Chairman that the President desires the
panel's assistance in aid of his constitu-
tional responsibility and discretion to
select a nominee to fill a vacancy or va-
cancies on a United States Court of Ap-
peals. Upon such notification, the panel
shall:
(1) Give public notice of the vacancy
or vacancies within the relevant geo-
graphic area, inviting suggestions as to
potential nominees;
(2) That they possess, and have repu-
tations for, integrity and good character;
(3) That they are of sound health;
(4) That they possess, and have dem-
onstrated, outstanding legal ability and
commitment to equal justice under law;
and
(5) That their demeanor, character,
and personality indicate that they would
exhibit judicial temperament if ap-
pointed to the position of United States
Circuit Judge.
(b) In selecting persons whose names
will be transmitted to the President, a
(2) Conduct inquiries to identify po- panel shall consider whether the train-
tential nominees;
(3) Conduct inquiries to identify those
persons among the potential nominees
who are well qualified to serve as a United
States Circuit Judge; and
(4) Report to the President, within
the time specified in the notification of
the vacancy or vacancies, the results of its
activities, including its recommendations
as to the persons whom the panel con-
siders best qualified to fill the vacancy or
vacancies.
(b) The Panel for the District of Co-
lumbia Circuit shall have the additional
function of recommending nominees for
the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, in accordance with
the standards and procedures prescribed
by this order for recommending nominees
for circuit judges.
Sec. 4. Standards for Selection of Pro-
SEC.
posed Nominees. (a) Before transmitting
to the President the names of the persons
it deems best qualified to fill an existing
vacancy or vacancies, a panel shall have
determined:
(1) That those persons are members in
good standing of at least one state bar, or
the District of Columbia bar, and mem-
bers in good standing of any other bars of
which they may be members;
ing, experience, or expertise of certain
help to meet a perceived need of the
of the well qualified individuals would
court of appeals on which the vacancy
or vacancies exist.
(c) To implement the above stand-
ards, a panel may adopt such additional
criteria or guidelines as it considers ap-
propriate for the identification of poten-
tial nominees and the selection of those
best qualified to serve as United States
Circuit Judges.
(d) Each panel is encouraged to make
special efforts to seek out and identify
well qualified women and members of
minority groups as potential nominees.
SEC. 5. Ineligibility of Commission
Members. No person shall be considered
by a panel as a potential nominee while
serving as a Commission member or for
a period of one year after termination of
such service.
SEC. 6. Travel Expenses and Financing.
(a) Members of the Commission shall
receive no compensation from the Gov-
ernment of the United States for their
service as members of the Commission,
but may be allowed travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703) for persons intermittently em-
ployed in the government service.
911
