Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 28
That represents an increase of 24 percent
above the FY 1978 level and a total in-
crease of 46 percent and $4 billion in the
last two fiscal years.
I have requested appropriations of $6.9
billion for elementary and secondary edu-
cation, an increase of fifteen percent over
FY 1978. This increase is the largest since
the creation of the program and exceeds
the FY 1977 budget by $1.7 billion. Along
with these increases goes a forty percent
increase in student assistance programs
for higher education and a new effort to
expand the reach of these programs to
moderate income families hard-pressed by
escalating tuition costs. Funding for these
student assistance programs will rise from
$3.8 billion in FY 1978 to $5.2 billion in
FY 1979.
This budget reflects the judgment,
widely shared by the Congress, that im-
proving the education of our children is
a wise investment in our future.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
I have instructed the Office of Man-
agement and Budget and the Department
of Health, Education and Welfare to
work with Congress on legislation needed
to establish a Department of Education
which will:
-let us focus on Federal educational
policy, at the highest levels of our
government;
-permit closer coordination of Federal
education programs and other re-
lated activities;
-reduce Federal regulations and re-
porting requirements and cut dupli-
cation;
-assist school districts, teachers, and
parents to make better use of local
resources and ingenuity.
A separate Cabinet-level department
will enable the Federal government to be
a true partner with State, local, and pri-
vate education institutions in sustaining
and improving the quality of our educa-
tion system.
COLLEGE STUDENT ASSISTANCE
I recently proposed a major expansion
of the programs providing financial as-
sistance to students in higher education.
Average college costs have increased by
seventy-seven percent in the last ten years.
At average costs of $4,500 per year in pri-
vate higher education and $2,500 in pub-
lic universities low and middle income
families are finding it difficult to send
their children to college. No able student
should be denied a college education be-
cause his or her family cannot afford tui-
tion, room and board.
My proposals will increase the number
of students receiving assistance from three
million to more than five million at a cost
of $1.46 billion. The proposals would:
-expand the Basic Educational Op-
portunity Grants program to serve
students from families with incomes
up to $25,000 and increase the maxi-
mum grant to $1,800;
-make interest-subsidized Guaranteed
Student Loans available to families
with incomes up to $45,000;
-provide part-time jobs to college stu-
dents through an expanded College
Work-Study Program.
This coordinated program is the best
way to meet the needs of our students and
their families. I strongly oppose the
enactment of a tuition tax credit.
A college tuition tax credit would cost
too much, would provide benefits to those
without need, would provide less benefit
to genuinely hard-pressed families than
the proposals we have advanced, and
would fragment educational policy within
the executive and legislative branches of
the Federal government.
A choice must be made. We cannot af-
ford-and I will not accept-both a tui-
425
