Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
equivalent and equal basis, to guarantee
the freedom of the people of the United
States. We considered that to be both a
joint effort and also that the results of
the victory in Europe to be of equal bene-
fit to us along with you. But it did demon-
strate vividly the close ties that bind us
together. And I am very thankful that you
have welcomed us with such hospitality.
Your Majesties, I would like to propose
on behalf of the people of the United
States a toast to you and Queen Fabiola,
to the distinguished Prime Minister and
the officials of Belgium, to the great inter-
national organizations represented here,
to the people of your great country, and
to peace throughout the world.
strong and united Europe and to the
European Community.
It has been my pleasure to meet often
with the Community's leaders. In addi-
tion to meeting President Jenkins, both at
the London Economic Summit and in
Washington, I benefited from meeting
with Prime Ministers Callaghan and
Tindemans during their countries' term
in the presidency of the Council.
As I have traveled in these last 9 days,
crossing continents and cultures, discuss-
ing different systems of politics and eco-
nomics, seeing humanity in its full, diverse
array, I have reaffirmed certain con-
stant themes time after time. I have
stressed the importance of democratic
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:50 p.m. in political values, and the steps needed to
La Grande Galerie at the Royal Palace.
Prior to the luncheon, the President met at
the Royal Palace with King Baudouin I and
Prime Minister Léo Tindemans.
Brussels, Belgium
Text of Remarks at a Meeting of the
Commission of the European Communities.
January 6, 1978
Mr. President, and members of the Com-
mission:
I am glad to meet with you today and
to continue the discussions that began
when my administration was only a few
hours old. Before my first week in office
was over, Vice President Mondale began
his visit to our traditional allies, stopping
first of all in Brussels, home of those inter-
national institutions that represent our
shared hope for a secure and prosperous
future.
As the first American President to visit
the headquarters of the European Com-
munity, I believe this meeting symbolizes
America's abiding commitment to a
defend them; the economic challenges we
face in our relations with the developing
world, and the need to cope with prob-
lems of our own. We must also open our
hearts to improve the chances for peace,
while always maintaining the strong right
arm of our defense.
I have repeated these themes because
they need repetition, because they express
to the world the values my Nation most
deeply holds.
I am proud today to add another—
that the United States welcomes a strong,
united Europe as a common force for the
values our peoples share.
The United States will do its part to
work with you.
Our economy is prosperous and grow-
ing, continuing its steady recovery. Be-
Icause we have confidence in the funda-
mental strength of our economy, we have
confidence in the fundamental strength
of the dollar, now and for the future. But
we are also aware of the degree to which
our own prosperity depends more than
ever on international economic coopera-
tion.
34
