Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 21
legislative veto provisions in bills pre-
sented to me for signature. Herbert
Hoover and every subsequent President
have taken this position. The purpose of
this message is to underscore and explain
the concern and to propose alternatives.
The legislative veto was first used in
the 1932 statute which authorized the
President to reorganize the Executive
Branch. The provision was repeated in
subsequent reorganization acts, including
the statute in effect today. This kind of
legislative veto does not involve Congres-
sional intrusion into the administration
of on-going substantive programs, and it
preserves the President's authority be-
cause he decides which proposals to sub-
mit to Congress. The Reorganization Act
jeopardizes neither the President's re-
sponsibilities nor the prerogatives of
Congress.
As employed in some recent legislation,
however, the legislative veto injects the
Congress into the details of administering
substantive programs and laws. These new
provisions require the President or an ad-
ministrator of a government agency to
submit to Congress each decision or regu-
lation adopted under a program. Instead
of the decision going into effect, action
is blocked for a set time-typically 60
congressional working days-while Con-
gress studies it. A majority of both
Houses, or either House, or even a single
committee, is authorized to veto the ac-
tion during that period.
Such intrusive devices infringe on the
Executive's constitutional duty to faith-
fully execute the laws. They also au-
thorize Congressional action that has the
effect of legislation while denying the
President the opportunity to exercise his
veto. Legislative vetoes thereby circum-
vent the President's role in the legislative
process established by Article I, Section
7 of the Constitution.
These are fundamental constitutional
issues. The Attorney General is seeking a
definitive judgment on them from the
courts, but no immediate resolution is in
prospect. Pending a decision by the Su-
preme Court, it is my view, and that of
the Attorney General, that these legis-
lative veto provisions are unconstitu-
tional.
Moreover, the legislative veto raises
serious, practical policy problems.
Federal agencies issue thousands of
complex regulations each year. Many are
adopted after months or years of hearings
and are based on many volumes of evi-
dence. To act responsibly under a typical
legislative veto provision, Congress would
have to examine all of this evidence, hold
its own hearings, and decide whether to
overrule the agency-all in a few weeks.
This task would add an additional burden
to Congress' legislative agenda.
The regulatory process is rightly criti-
cized for being slow and for creating un-
certainty which cripples planning by
business, state and local governments, and
many others. The legislative veto greatly
compounds both problems. At best, it pro-
longs the period of uncertainty for each
regulation by several months. At worst, it
can mean years of delay. Under the legis-
lative veto procedure, Congress can only
block an agency's rules, not rewrite them.
If the House and Senate agree that a
regulation is needed but disagree with the
agency or each other on the specifics, ex-
ercise of the veto can lead to indefinite
deadlock.
This danger is illustrated by the regula-
tions concerning President Nixon's papers.
Three versions of these regulations were
vetoed, and it took three years to reach
agreement on them. Whatever the merits
of the issues, this is clearly an unsatisfac-
tory way to decide them. Such lengthy,
expensive procedures could easily become
1147
