May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
those Government-supported programs
much more accurately upon the minority
citizens and young people. So, I think that
this is a good prospect now for there
to be a more rapid decrease in the un-
employment rate among those for whom
you are concerned. And the last month's
figures showed a substantial improvement
in the unemployment rate among Span-
ish-speaking citizens, black citizens, and
young people, in particular.
TEMPORARY WORK PERMITS
Q. Mr. President, agricultural labor
leaders in agriculture are fearful that this
year you're going to allow a tremendous
increase in temporary worker permits in
the agricultural fields this summer, such
as you did last year in Texas. And you are
under tremendous pressure from growers
to waive some of the requirements. What
is your feeling on that? Are you going
to allow temporary worker permits, either
under the H-2 or bracero program or
what have you?
THE PRESIDENT. We made it clear when
we sent up the legislation to Congress that
we don't intend to expand the H-2 pro-
gram or to put in any sort of bracero pro-
gram and so forth.
Those permits would be handled un-
der existing law, basically the same policy
that we have followed, administered by
the Secretary of Labor. If a dispute comes
up about a particular decision, as far
as the legality of it is concerned, as has
been the case in the past, the Secretary of
Labor would turn to the Attorney General
for advice. But we have no plans to ex-
pand that program.
WHITE HOUSE NEWS SUMMARY
Q. Mr. President, I happened to no-
tice this morning that the news summary
that you receive every morning did not
contain any items from the Hispanic
media. We asked the question as to why
that was, and we were told there ap-
parently wasn't a staffer in the White
House who could cull the information
from the Hispanic media. Would you feel
inclined to include items from the His-
panic media in the future in the White
House News Summary?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would.
Q. I think that would be important.
THE PRESIDENT. On occasion, by the
way, there are excerpts from the Spanish
media. I would say in an average day,
we get excerpts from 40-I'm just guess-
ing-40 sources. You could take today's
little summary as a typical one. We don't
use the same newspapers every day; we
don't use the same editorial sources
every day.
We do use all three networks and sum-
marize their evening news program, and
we do use the lead stories from AP and
UPI. That's the only thing that's in-
cluded every day.
The rest of the time they come from a
very wide range of sources, sometimes lit-
tle tiny newspapers, sometimes Spanish-
Hispanic-American newspapers, some-
times black-owned newspapers. But I
think we could use more information from
the Spanish-speaking community.
PRESIDENTIAL ASSISTANT FOR HISPANIC
AMERICAN CONCERNS
Q. Mr. President, are you now favor-
ably disposed or could you be favorably
disposed to appointing a Presidential as-
sistant with a staff to loo: after Latino
concerns in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've got Joe
Aragon here who's a top assistant in the
White House, who is a very fine spokes-
man, but I'm not inclined to set up a
special office in addition to what I already
have, no.
Q. He says that only 5 percent of his
time is directly related to Latino concerns,
906
