Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
We will continue to move forward with
a major research program on breeder
technology.
We will begin to implement our pro-
gram for government management of
spent fuel from nuclear reactors.
In 1978, my Administration will work
towards a policy for safe, permanent dis-
posal of nuclear wastes.
In 1978 and beyond, we will carry on
a vigorous nuclear research and develop-
ment program designed to give us safe
technologies that will reduce the danger
of nuclear proliferation and will be envi-
ronmentally responsible. We will also
seek to improve the current system of
licensing nuclear power reactors in order
to cut bureaucratic delays, while firmly
maintaining and strengthening health,
safety and environmental requirements. I
will propose nuclear licensing legislation
to the Congress this year.
ENVIRONMENT
One of my deepest personal commit-
ments is to a clean, healthy environment
for all of our citizens. Last May, I out-
lined this Administration's environmental
priorities and policies in a comprehensive
Environmental Message. Working closely
with the Congress, we have made good
progress on many of the measures con-
tained in that Message; it will continue to
guide our administrative and legislative
actions in 1978. Overall, we will:
-increase our environmental outlays
by more than 10%, and provide the new
staff resources necessary to ensure that
the Nation's environmental laws are
obeyed;
—determine the best way of enforcing
the landmark environmental statutes en-
acted in 1977, taking considerations of
science and public policy into account;
-pursue several important initiatives,
including a National Heritage program
and designation of national interest lands
in Alaska, to manage our precious natural
resources better and to preserve our
heritage.
Environmental Statutes
In 1977, we worked closely with Con-
gress to enact three of the most significant
environmental statutes in recent years:
-The Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act establishes a joint
Federal-State program to make sure we
use economically and environmentally
sound strip-mining practices. It also sets
up a fund to reclaim lands which have
been ravaged by uncontrolled, careless
mining, and provides clear, stable policy
direction for operators.
-The Clean Air Act Amendments
establish strict but achievable standards
for auto emissions and ensure continued
progress in reducing pollution from sta-
tionary air pollution sources.
-The Clean Water Act authorizes
many of our most important water clean-
up programs and will protect our Na-
tion's wetlands without unnecessary Fed-
eral requirements. The Act also reforms
the sewage treatment construction grant
program and gives strong emphasis to
the control of toxic chemicals in our
environment.
We will provide the leadership and the
funding necessary to carry out these new
laws.
Water Policy
In 1977, an effort was begun to ensure
that Federal programs and policies pro-
vide sound and fair management of our
limited and valuable water resources. We
began a complete review of Federal water
policy, which will be completed this year.
After close consultation with the Con-
gress, the States, and the public, we will
propose measures needed to carry out the
recommendations of that study.
115
