May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ple award scholarships each year for out-
standing students who want to continue
their education, who happen to be blind.
On my right are four of those students
to whom I will present awards in a few
moments. But I would like to congratu-
late them on behalf of their fellow citi-
zens in our great country for demonstrat-
ing that there is no constraint on the
achievement of a physically handicapped
person. Not only have they honored me by
coming, made their families proud, dem-
onstrated the efficacy of a fine organiza-
tion and its work, but they can act and do
act as an inspiration to other Americans
who want high achievement and who
need additional courage and example to
follow.
So, I want to congratulate all four of
you and point out that these four future
lawyers that [laughter]-I am sure,
will fill a very useful place in our society.
And I look forward with great interest to
having you join the ranks of those who
believe in the finest aspects of the law and
want to pursue justice, from the vantage
point of one who knows a need for oppor-
tunity for all.
So, thank you again for coming and
honoring me by your presence, and I will
now give the achievement awards to each
of you.
The first one is to Harry John Miller II.
And, I'd like to read it first.
“The Board of Directors of Recording
for the Blind, Incorporated, present this
scholastic achievement award to Harry
John Miller II in recognition of the ex-
traordinary scholarship, determination,
and intellectual vigor displayed in earning
the degree of Bachelor of Arts from Ari-
zona State University."
It's a great honor for me to present this
to you.
MR. MILLER. Thank you very much,
Mr. President. God bless you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. The enve-
lope contains a check. [Laughter]
The next one is to Christopher John
Palano. "The Board of Directors of Re-
cording for the Blind, Incorporated, pre-
sent this scholarship achievement award
to Christopher John Palano in recognition
of the extraordinary scholarship, determi-
nation, and intellectual vigor displayed
in earning the degree of Bachelor of Arts
from Clark University.”
I present this to you with my congratu-
lations and best wishes.
MR. PALANO. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. And now Merilyn
Carol Rosenthal, who, by the way, will be
the first blind woman to attend the Har-
vard Law School.
"The Board of Directors of Recording
for the Blind, Incorporated, present this
scholastic achievement award to Merilyn
Carol Rosenthal in recognition of the
extraordinary scholarship, determination,
and intellectual vigor displayed in earning
the degree of Bachelor of Arts from the
Douglas College of Rutgers University.”
Congratulations to you.
MISS ROSENTHAL. Thank you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
This next award is to John Britt De-
Luca, who, I noticed, wears a Phi Beta
Directors of Recording for the Blind, In-
Kappa key on his lapel. "The Board of
corporated, present this scholastic achieve-
ment award to John Britt DeLuca in rec-
ognition of the extraordinary scholarship,
determination, and intellectual vigor dis-
played in earning the Bachelor of Arts
degree from Duke University.”
John Britt DeLuca, congratulations to
you.
MR. DELUCA. Thank you very much.
926
