Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
reception for members of the Southern
Baptist Convention Mission Service
Corps, and in the evening, he attended a
dinner with the members at the May-
flower Hotel.
May 3
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mr. Moore.
The President met with Prime Min-
ister Takeo Fukuda in the Cabinet Room
at the White House, and then hosted a
working luncheon for the Prime Minister.
At the Cosmopolitan Hotel in Denver,
the President met with Secretary of Agri-
culture Bob Bergland, Senator Floyd K.
Haskell of Colorado, and four of the Sen-
ator's constituents. Following the meeting,
the President met with Secretary of the
Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Senator
Haskell, and three of the Senator's con-
stituents at the hotel.
While in Denver, the President had a
dinner meeting with representatives from
government, industry, and the academic
community, to discuss solar energy. The
dinner was held at Rick's Cafe, a former
garage converted into a solar-heated
restaurant.
May 4
The President met at the Cosmopolitan
Hotel with Representative Timothy E.
Wirth of Denver, Colorado, and a group
of volunteers with area civic and chari-
table organizations.
Before departing Los Angeles Interna-
tional Airport for Portland, the President
met on Air Force One with Representa-
tive Mark W. Hannaford of California.
May 5
While in Portland, the President had a
breakfast meeting at the Benson Hotel
with city and county officials from Alaska,
Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Gover-
nor Robert W. Straub of Oregon, Secre-
taries Andrus and Bergland, and several
other Federal Government officials also
participated in the meeting.
The President returned to the White
House late in the evening.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted May 1, 1978
FRANCIS H. MCADAMS, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be a member of the National
Transportation Safety Board for the term ex-
piring December 31, 1982 (reappointment).
Submitted May 3, 1978
RICHARD F. KNEIP, of South Dakota, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to the
Republic of Singapore.
SIDNEY I. LEZAK, of Oregon, to be United
States Attorney for the District of Oregon
for the term of 4 years (reappointment).
Withdrawn May 3, 1978
ANTHONY HASWELL, of Illinois, to be a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation for a term
expiring July 18, 1981, vice Donald P.
Jacobs, term expired, which was sent to the
Senate January 26, 1978.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following releases of the Office of the
White House Press Secretary, distributed dur-
ing the period covered by this issue, are not
included in the issue.
Released April 30, 1978
Announcement:
antiterrorist demonstration
at Fort Bragg attended by members of the
Special Coordination Committee of the Na-
tional Security Council
881
