May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
One of the greatest failings of the orga-
nized bar in the past century since the
American Bar Association was founded is
that it has fought innovations. When
greater competition has come to the legal
profession, when no-fault systems have
been adopted, when lawyers have begun
to advertise or compete in short, when
the profession has accommodated the in-
terests of the public, it's done so only
when forced to.
Constructive work is now under way,
and as this second century of the bar as-
sociation begins, the people of this coun-
try are beginning to see leadership from
the members of the bar.
But as we make litigation more acces-
sible, our fourth challenge is to make the
adversary system less necessary for the
daily lives of most Americans—and more
efficient when it must be used. By resort-
ing to litigation at the drop of a hat, by re-
garding the adversary system as an end in
itself, we have made justice more cumber-
some, more expensive, and less equal than
it ought to be. This is a phenomenon
more and more widely recognized, I
know, among members of the bar.
One answer is to be sure that other
pathways to justice do exist. Many sug-
gestions have already been made for mak-
ing litigation less necessary, and my ad-
ministration will work with you and other
members of the bar to implement them.
In a great number of cases there is
no sound reason for a lawyer to be in-
volved in land transfers or title searches.
Simplified procedures and use of modern
computer technology can save consumers
needless legal fees.
We must eliminate from our judicial
system cases which can be resolved in
other ways. No-fault automobile insur-
ance systems, adopted by many States, are
a step in the right direction. National
standards for no-fault will have a much
greater impact. We support no-fault
divorce laws, like those passed when I was
Governor of Georgia and the ones passed
here in California, that can reduce litiga-
tion that's unnecessary and also the bit-
terness that litigation brings. We must
look for ways to reduce the tremendous
burden of medical malpractice costs.
Delays in our courts because of ex-
cessive litigation are matched by the in-
terminable delays in many Federal regu-
latory agencies.
In trying to solve society's problems,
our regulators have proposed unneces-
sarily detailed specifications and written
regulations in the kind of gobbledygook
that could employ a generation of law
school graduates just to interpret them.
I've pledged to reduce this regula-
tory burden for the first time on Amer-
ican citizens, and we've taken some
steps toward change. A few weeks ago, I
signed an Executive order that will be
carried out, which requires that heads of
departments and agencies personally
approve the regulatory agendas of their
organizations, that regulations be signed
by the one who wrote them, that regula-
tions be gone over rigorously in "sunset”
reviews to terminate them when they
have served their purpose, that they be
simply written, and that they are the most
cost-effective rules possible to devise.
Where the free marketplace can do a
better job than regulations-as in the
setting of airline fares-I will work hard
to deregulate that industry and to encour-
age free and effective competition.
The Senate has passed a superb airline
deregulation bill. I predict that next week
it will come out of the House subcom-
mittee, and we expect success on the floor
of the House.
We must also find a way to remove the
vested interests in overlitigation and
delay. Last year, corporations spent $24
billion on legal services-12 times as
much as we spent on all Federal, State,
840
