Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
Nation and the Defense Department
decides that we only need two of them
and will close one, they put all three on
the list to be assessed, so that after their
assessment is complete, they will present
to me and to the Congress proposals for
the closing down of a base or changing
its character. But before that is done,
there will be 9 or 10 months of very care-
ful analysis, plus a very careful study
being done, which will continue for a long
period of time, about the economic conse-
quences to that area and to the country
if it is closed down.
So, you've got the military assessment of
need, a very long list-very few of the
bases will actually be closed in the final
analysis, not more than a third or so-and
the economic consequences if a base is
closed. So, I recognize the political conse-
quences. But even then, I'll have to make
a final judgment, and so will the Congress,
on the basis of what's best for our country,
not how much a local community might
react adversely if a decision is made
against them.
PRESIDENT'S RELATIONSHIP WITH
ILLINOIS DEMOCRATS
Q. Sir, will you have any private discus-
sions to warm up the political relationship
with the Cook County organization?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've already
begun those discussions. I was met by
many of the candidates for office at the
airport. All the Members of the House of
Representatives are running for reelec-
tion, as you know. I met with them today.
I've already met and ridden in and been
up in my hotel room with Mayor Bilandic,
who also happens to be here. Obviously,
one of the reasons that I came here to
Chicago is not only to meet and address
the legislature tomorrow morning, which
will be a bipartisan effort, but to help
the Cook County Democrats and the Illi-
nois Democrats win in the fall.
And my heart's in it. There is no dif-
ference of opinion between me and the
Democratic candidates or leaders here
about what should be done by the Illinois
people in the elections this fall.
U.S. FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, a question about
Africa again. Can you be more specific
in the kinds of changes you would seek
in this review? For instance, how do you
feel that your hands are tied in extend-
ing aid to these nations in Africa? And
further, under what conditions would you
want to be able to extend aid, lethal or
nonlethal, to such groups as the opposi-
tion forces in Angola?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have no in-
tention of getting involved in the conflict
in Angola. This is not my intention at all.
But the Congress has had an increasing
inclination recently, beginning long be-
fore I came in office, to impose one-House
vetoes and to put very tight constraints
on what countries we could give any aid
to and prohibit even World Bank loans
for countries, say, that produced com-
petitive crops in the United States. For
instance, last year the Congress attempted
to impose a prohibition against any loans
by the World Bank against a country that
produced sugar products because it com-
peted with sugar produced in our own
country, or to prevent any aid being given
to a country that produced tung (palm)ยน
oil because it competed with soybean oil
grown in our own country.
That means that we are prohibited
from giving much needed friendship,
mutual support, building up a trade re-
lationship, giving aid when it's necessary
to countries that might desperately desire
our help, but be forced, because of an
absence of it, to turn to the Soviet Union
or to turn to Eastern bloc countries to
help them sustain themselves.
ยน Printed in the transcript.
975
