Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Tens of thousands of people are already more acceptable terms can be negotiated
out of work because factories have laid off nationwide between management and
workers to conserve fuel. Power curtail- labor.
ments have reached 50 percent in In-
diana, 30 percent in West Virginia, and
critical levels in other parts of the Mid-
west. One month from now, at least a
million more Americans would be unem-
ployed if the coal strike continued.
My responsibility is to protect the
health and safety of the American public,
and I intend to do so.
I've ordered the Attorney General,
General,
under the Taft-Hartley Act, to prepare
for an injunction to require the miners to
return to work and the mineowners to
place the mines back into production.
I've appointed a Board of Inquiry and
asked it to report back to me as soon as
possible to begin the emergency dispute-
settling procedure under the Taft-Hartley
Act.
In addition, I've asked the Attorney
General and the Governors of the af-
fected States to make certain that the law
is obeyed, that violence is prevented, and
that lives and property are fully pro-
tected.
The Department of Energy will use, as
necessary, its allocation powers to mini-
mize the effects of fuel shortage on regions
which are most dependent on coal by
moving energy resources to places where
they are most urgently needed. We will
depend on the free and voluntary dis-
tribution of energy whenever possible.
I have not taken this action lightly.
These steps are absolutely necessary if
our Nation is not to be the innocent
victim of a total breakdown of the collec-
tive bargaining process.
I expect that all parties affected by
these actions will cooperate fully and
abide completely by the law. Under a
Taft-Hartley injunction, miners ordi-
narily are required by law to return to
work under the existing contract, unless
During recent negotiations, both mine-
workers and operators agreed on new
wages to begin in 1978. When the Taft-
Hartley injunction takes effect, we will
seek to permit any company to offer this
new wage settlement to those who return
to work under the injunction.
The new 1978 wage package is a gen-
erous one which reflects the special con-
ditions of coal mining. And I must say
quite frankly that I do not support and
would personally oppose any more liberal
and inflationary wage settlement.
The best permanent solution to this
dispute is a settlement reached through
collective bargaining. While the Taft-
Hartley injunction is in effect, I will take
steps to see that all parties resume nego-
tiations as rapidly as possible. Whenever
negotiated coal contracts are ratified by
the UMW membership, the Taft-Hartley
injunction will be lifted.
The difficult and dangerous work of
coal miners has helped America prosper
and grow strong. For too many years in
the past, the miners, their parents, and
their grandparents paid an unfair and
bitter price for working in the mines.
They often did not have the safety pro-
tection they needed. And they did not re-
ceive compensation for black lung disease
and other hazards that they encounter
daily.
More improvements are still needed in
these working conditions for miners. But
we have made important progress. I re-
cently signed legislation, passed by Con-
gress, that will significantly improve both
black lung benefits and the enforcement
of Federal health and safety standards in
the coal mines.
As Americans, we all share the respon-
sibility for preserving the health and
safety of our country, which is now in
470
