May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
control inflation without common sac-
rifice and common commitment by us all.
On civil service, I need your support
to help pass my reforms and to bring
more efficiency and more incentive into
the bloated Federal bureaucracy, which
must be improved.
Here in the West, as well as elsewhere,
we must improve our ability to protect
the national environment while main-
and we need it in Washington State, and
I know that we can find it.
This partnership between you and me
will help to realize the true greatness of
our Nation.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:16 p.m.
taining economic growth and develop- Spokane, Washington
ment. This is a great challenge, but I
have every confidence that we can meet
it and succeed. We will never see the
quality of life, the beauty of our environ-
ment deteriorate as long as I'm serving
you as President in the White House.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session at a Town Meeting. May 5, 1978
None of this is going to be easy, and I
don't pretend that any of us has all the
answers. Many people say that as Presi-
dent of the United States, I have the most
difficult job in all the world. But I have
confidence that the people understand
that there are no easy answers. I believe
that people understand that difficult
questions, too long ignored, must now be
addressed.
I think people understand that there
are conflicts of interest, even among the
most well-meaning and dedicated and
patriotic American citizens. This is part
of our democratic society. But I feel an
assurance, as President, that I can do a
good job, to the extent that I maintain my
close relationship with you and enhance
the partnership that must exist in our
great Nation.
I know that our reaction to these chal-
lenges will be the measure by which we
will be judged by future generations.
The Congress and my administration
can only do so much. We can never suc-
ceed without broad public support. We
need the confidence and the understand-
ing and the commitment of the American
people. We need it in Washington, D.C.,
THE PRESIDENT. No one could be in a
better political position than to be pre-
ceded and introduced by men like Tom
Foley and Senator Warren Magnuson. I
know of no one in the Congress than
these two men who are more respected,
more dedicated to serving their own
people well, but who have also reached,
because of their experience and knowl-
edge, sound judgment and commitment,
a position of national and even interna-
tional renown and leadership.
I'm also glad to be here with you,
the people who had enough good judg-
ment to elect men like this to come to
Washington, D.C.
I ran for President as an outsider, as an
independent person, a Democrat, but one
who didn't owe special interest groups
anything. And when I began my own
campaign, as you certainly remember,
at least in retrospect, no one knew who
I was, no one cared who I was. When I
came here to Spokane the first time,
I was a Governor of a great State, but my
prospects for being President were con-
sidered to be almost nonexistent. I cast
my lot with you and people like you all
over the country. And I promised that
I would stay in close touch with you as I
made decisions about very difficult and
challenging questions.
860
