Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:17 p.m., January 20, 1978]
The State of the Union
Address Delivered Before a Joint Session of the
Congress. January 19, 1978
Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of
the 95th Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
Two years ago today we had the first
caucus in Iowa, and one year ago tomor-
row, I walked from here to the White
House to take up the duties of President
of the United States. I didn't know it then
when I walked, but I've been trying to
save energy ever since. [Laughter]
I return tonight to fulfill one of those
duties of the Constitution: to give to the
Congress and to the Nation-informa-
tion on the state of the Union.
Militarily, politically, economically, and
in spirit, the state of our Union is sound.
We are a great country, a strong coun-
try, a vital and a dynamic country-and
so we will remain.
We are a confident people and a hard-
working people, a decent and a compas-
sionate people-and so we will remain.
I want to speak to you tonight about
where we are and where we must go,
about what we have done and what we
must do. And I want to pledge to you my
best efforts and ask you to pledge yours.
Each generation of Americans has to
face circumstances not of its own choos-
ing, but by which its character is meas-
ured and its spirit is tested.
There are times of emergency, when
a nation and its leaders must bring their
energies to bear on a single urgent task.
That was the duty Abraham Lincoln
faced when our land was torn apart by
conflict in the War Between the States.
That was the duty faced by Franklin
Roosevelt when he led America out of an
economic depression and again when he
led America to victory in war.
There are other times when there is no
single overwhelming crisis, yet profound
national interests are at stake.
At such times the risk of inaction can
be equally great. It becomes the task of
leaders to call forth the vast and restless
energies of our people to build for the
future.
That is what Harry Truman did in the
years after the Second World War, when
we helped Europe and Japan rebuild
themselves and secured an international
order that has protected freedom from
aggression.
We live in such times now, and we face
such duties.
We've come through a long period of
turmoil and doubt, but we've once again
found our moral course, and with a new.
spirit, we are striving to express our best
instincts to the rest of the world.
There is all across our land a growing
sense of peace and a sense of common
purpose. This sense of unity cannot be
expressed in programs or in legislation or
in dollars. It's an achievement that be-
longs to every individual American. This
unity ties together, and it towers over all
our efforts here in Washington, and it
serves as an inspiring beacon for all of us
who are elected to serve.
This new atmosphere demands a new
spirit, a partnership between those of us
who lead and those who elect. The foun-
dations of this partnership are truth, the
courage to face hard decisions, concern
for one another and the common good
over special interests, and a basic faith and
90
