Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Our review generated a large number
of proposals for changes in existing pro-
grams. Some will require legislation; most
of them can be done through immediate
administrative action. There are more
than 150 of them. Let me mention just
three or four.
All agencies will develop goals and
timetables for minority participation in
their grants and contracts. Five major
agencies have already taken such action.
The Defense Department will set up a
new program to increase purchases in
urban areas.
The Environmental Protection Agency
will modify its water and sewer programs
to discourage wasteful sprawl.
The General Services Administration
will retain facilities in downtown urban
areas and will also put new ones there.
If the kind of review that led to these
changes had been done on a regular basis
in the past, our urban problems would be
much less severe today.
As a key component part of the compre-
hensive urban policy, I'm establishing a
continuing mechanism, involving many of
you, to analyze the effects of new Federal
policies and programs on our communi-
ties. Once that mechanism is in place,
analysis of the urban and regional impact
of new programs will be an integral and a
permanent part of all policy development
throughout our Government.
I believe that this reorientation of Fed-
eral activities, to take account of the needs
of other communities, will be as signifi-
cant as any action the Federal Govern-
ment could take.
But even with substantial increases and
improvements in existing programs, gaps
still remain. The new initiatives that I am
proposing today $4.4 billion in budget
authority, $1.7 billion in new tax incen-
tives, and $2.2 billion in loan guaran-
tees are designed precisely to fill those
gaps.
To make government at all levels more
efficient, I propose incentives to cities with
coordinated economic development plans,
a simplification of planning requirements,
and a new coordinating mechanism for
Federal programs.
To help relieve the distress of the most
fiscally strained communities-replace
the expiring countercyclical aid program
with a new fiscal assistance program tar-
geted on those communities with the high-
est unemployment rate.
To encourage the States to channel ad-
ditional resources into their own distressed
areas a new incentive grant program.
To provide increased opportunities for
our unemployed a new employment tax
credit to encourage private industry to
hire jobless young people, whose plight is
among the most serious human problems
of our whole society, and a new program
to encourage private industry, a new part-
nership with mayors, to hire and to train
more disadvantaged workers.
To strengthen the economic base of
cities-major incentives to private invest-
ment in urban areas through increased
and affordable credit from a new Na-
tional Development Bank, expanded
grants, and a new tax incentive, and an
innovative program of labor-intensive
public works, aimed at repairing and re-
habilitating the existing facilities in our
urban communities.
An inner-city health and social service
initiative, together with expanded sup-
port for mass transit, housing rehabilita-
tion, and urban parks and recreation ini-
tiative, and a new arts and cultural pro-
gram will promote community and
human development and preserve historic
buildings in our urban areas.
And to marshal the thousands of Amer-
icans who want to contribute their time
and energy to the betterment of their own
neighborhoods, I'm proposing neighbor-
580
