Mar. 17
Administration af Jimmy Carter, 1978
We're a nation of people who believe
in peace. We like to get along with our
neighbors. We want to protect our women
and children and our future generations
from the threat of nuclear war, and so far
we've been successful-one of the first
times in modern history that in the first
year or 18 months of a new administra-
tion we haven't had American soldiers
dying somewhere on Earth.
But if God gives me strength and judg-
ment, I pray, joined by you, that we can
preserve and enhance peace around the
world-not based on weakness, but based
on strength.
Today I made a speech in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, Wake Forest Uni-
versity, about national security and then
came out this afternoon, flew from Savan-
nah by helicopter to land on the greatest
warship in the world, a brand new
atomic-powered aircraft carrier, 95,000
tons, the U.S.S. Eisenhower, operating
off your coast. And I saw there a superb
crew, young crew-the average age, 192
years old.
More than half of the crew, before the
Eisenhower was commissioned last fall,
had never been on a ship. And we
watched the most complicated, challeng-
ing military exercises that I have ever
seen, and they went off with absolute per-
fection. And as the President of our coun-
try, as Commander in Chief, I realized
even more intently that the best way to
peace is to be strong. And as long as I'm
President, our country's going to stay
strong.
The South has known better than any
other part of our great Nation what it
means to be devastated and occupied as a
result of war. And we are determined to
maintain the leadership that's been shown
by Senator Talmadge, by Bo Ginn, by
Sam Nunn, who's taken the place in every
way of the great Senator Dick Russell,
that our country will have armed forces
adequate to protect our country.
Another thing I learned when I was
campaigning around our Nation was
that as a result of the Vietnam war, as a
result of Watergate, as a result of mis-
takes made and revealed in the CIA, that
there had been a loss of spirit and con-
fidence, there had been a loss of respect
and a sense of partnership between the
American people and our government.
And I felt that something needed to be
done, not only to correct those mistakes
and to deal in such a way that those would
not be repeated but to hoist a banner that
would make our people proud to follow.
And I searched back in the early days
of Savannah, Georgia, and the rest of
the Thirteen Colonies and tried to under-
stand what our people stood for who wrote
the Declaration of Independence and
who wrote the Constitution of the United
States. And I knew then and I know
now that our country always has to be
the well-recognized leader and bulwark
in protecting basic human dignity, basic
human liberty, basic self-respect, known
by the words "human rights." And they
will be protected also as long as I'm in
Washington and you give me your
support.
I had a lot of criticism by some of the
cynics in Washington and the national
news media about saying that I wanted a
government that was as good and decent
and honest and truthful as the American
people. But I sense among our people a
hunger for that kind of knowledge that
you need not ever be ashamed again, rec-
ognizing that government is not infallible,
that we do make mistakes, recognizing
that the Federal Government cannot and
ought not to do everything to shape and
control our lives, understanding that the
Federal Government ought to be simple,
well-organized.
542
