Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Washington. I have no plans now for any
additional trips anywhere after I return
to Washington.
PRESIDENT'S MEETINGS IN BRAZIL
Q. What's the purpose of this meeting
that you are having in Rio with Cardinal
Arns and five other people? I mean, what
specifically are you intending to discuss
with them and hear from them?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any
agenda prepared for my visit with Cardi-
nal Arns and the others. In a diverse
society like you have here in Brazil, it's
important for me to visit with different
persons who represent different views. I
will have thorough discussions, as you
know, with President Geisel and his ad-
ministration, and I want to meet with
as many other people as I can. I have,
by the way, met and talked to Cardinal
Arns previously in the United States. I
think this is typical of leaders who visit
other countries. I noticed, for instance,
with some interest, that when President
Geisel visited the Federal Republic of
Germany recently, he not only met with
Chancellor Schmidt but he met with the
leaders of the opposition parties.
And as a leader of a nation, I reserve
the right to meet with whom I please. And
I think this is a constructive thing, which
will give me a much better overall under-
standing of what exists in Brazil. And I
think the right of people to speak to me
as a foreign visitor is one that's important
to Brazil to preserve and to cherish. And
I am thankful that I have that right when
I visit your country.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, when you return
from this Latin American and African
trip, do you have any specific plans to
combat the number one concern of the
American people? I refer to inflation.
Specifically, do you have any changes in
mind in your, up to now, voluntary pro-
gram of price and wage restraints?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. My administra-
tion, during the last couple of weeks, has
been evolving a complete analysis of what
we can do, both through administrative
action, through
through public statements,
through working with the business com-
munity and the labor community, and
through congressional action to control
inflation, which is becoming an increas-
ingly important problem for us.
I think the Consumer Price Index fig-
ures that were released this week, the day
we left Washington, were much better
than we had anticipated, but still a cause
for concern.
So, when I get home, one of the first
acts that I shall take is to make public
the decisions that we are now putting
together.
Q. Will they change the voluntary na-
ture of the program, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll address the details
when I get back home.
GENERAL FIGUEIREDO
Q. [in Portuguese] I'd like to know
whether in your meeting with General
Figueiredo yesterday you discussed the
program of the political opening up of the
Brazilian Government and the imple-
mentation of that plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not have an op-
portunity to discuss any matters of im-
portance with General Figueiredo. I only
met him very briefly in a larger group of
people, 30 or 40 people, and in the re-
ceiving line when I came into the airport.
So, I've not had a chance to discuss this
with him.
Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News].
STEEL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, despite some jawbon-
ing pressure from your administration,
U.S. Steel has raised its prices again. How
632
