May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Senators Hart and Haskell had already
done much of the spadework through
hearings and through legislative pro-
posals. Congress Members Wirth and
Schroeder are enthusiastic supporters of
this kind of legislation. Their work is now
reflected in a new proposal for inland
energy impact assistance, which I'm an-
nouncing here today. This proposal,
which Senator Hart has agreed to incor-
porate into his own bill, recognizes that no
one wants rampant, uncontrolled growth
which destroys the natural environment,
disrupts established patterns of life, and
locks communities into expenditures with
a short burst of effort which they cannot
afford to maintain on a permanent basis.
It also recognizes that economic bene-
fits, new jobs, and new tax revenues can
result from new development in a bene-
ficial way if it's properly planned.
My proposal is predicated on a strong
partnership with the States, recognizing
that they can better set priorities and
policies which will assist communities
while making sure that those whose bene-
fit derives from new development pay
their share of the cost.
This legislation will establish a 5-year
program of energy impact assistance and
other aid to inland areas, which will be
funded by $675 million in direct Federal
grants. It also provides up to $12 billion
in loan guarantees to States at subsidized
interest rates. The Economic Develop-
ment Assistance program will administer
this program and give impacted areas one
place to turn for assistance, the EDA.
Under this proposal, States and local
communities will be guaranteed a timely
voice in Federal decisionmaking related
to energy development within their own
jurisdictions. The Federal Government
will join with States and communities,
locally, to assess more fully the needs for
facilities and services that are related
directly to energy development.
The States and local governments in
turn must be able to plan for energy de-
velopment and to gradually increase their
own contribution to meeting impact needs
on a permanent basis.
This new program is both comprehen-
sive and flexible enough to let States tailor
impact assistance programs to their own
specific needs.
Senator Haskell, along with the Mem-
bers of the congressional delegation from
the Appalachian States, has labored long
and hard to provide impact assistance
programs for housing. While I believe the
new program meets all energy impact
needs, not only housing, I would not ob-
ject to Congress designating some of these
new funds for the alternative housing
program.
The cooperation and knowledge which
I have found among the Governors, key
Members of Congress whom I've already
mentioned, and representatives of in-
dividual communities and tribes has really
paid off. I believe that working together
we can enact legislation this year which
will give energy-impacted areas the help
they need so much. Together, we will not
fail.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 a.m. in
the Broadway Arms Room at the Cosmopoli-
tan Hotel.
Los Angeles, California
Remarks at the 100th Anniversary Luncheon
of the Los Angeles County Bar Association.
May 4, 1978
Governor Brown, Mayor Bradley, Presi-
dent Williams, President-elect Taylor, dis-
tinguished members of the Los Angeles
County Bar, ladies and gentlemen:
For the last half hour, I've been sitting
in a room nearby listening to the report
834
