Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 2
Strategic Arms Limitation
Talks
Remarks to Reporters. June 2, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that on oc-
casion there will be inadvertent inaccu-
racies in reporting of news. And this is
part of our system and I don't condemn
it; I live with it. But this morning there
was an example that I think is serious
enough to warrant a direct appearance
before you by the President of the United
States.
This story in the Washington Post,
"White House Imposes Freeze on Strate-
gic Arms Talks," is totally inaccurate.
And before that story was published,
the reporters were informed that the
story was totally inaccurate. The editors
decided to go ahead with it anyhow.
It damages our country, it damages my
credibility, and I think it damages the
prospect for a continuation of the basic
policy of our Government, which has not
changed since I came in office, that is,
to proceed aggressively with SALT dis-
cussions, to conclude a treaty as early as
possible and without delay because of po-
litical considerations, and to make sure
that that treaty, when concluded, is in the
best interests of our country.
This matter has never been discussed,
even informally, among the three people
in our Government responsible for SALT
discussions-Paul Warnke, the head of
ACDA, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance,
or myself. We have never even discussed
it, and I wanted to make it clear and on
the record that this story is inaccurate,
that our policy is unchanged. And this is
the statement I wanted to make to you.
Q. Is it possible someone's trying to
torpedo the negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. Jody will respond in
depth in just a few minutes to any ques-
tions that you might have.
Q. Can you tell us anything about your
talks with Gromyko, were there any hope-
ful prospects?
THE PRESIDENT. Jody can
that.
can answer
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. Jody
Powell is Press Secretary to the President.
James B. Allen
Statement on the Death of the Senator
From Alabama. June 2, 1978
With the death of Senator James B.
Allen of Alabama, the Senate has lost one
of the great masters of parliamentary pro-
cedure in the long tradition of Southern
Senators.
He was an honorable and indefatigable
fighter for his beliefs and a man of great
personal integrity. I extend my deepest
sympathy to his family.
United States Ambassador to
Ecuador
Nomination of Raymond E. González.
June 2, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Raymond E. González, of
La Habra, Calif., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to Ecuador. He would re-
place Richard J. Bloomfield, who has
been transferred.
González was born December 24, 1924,
in Pasadena, Calif. He received a B.A.
from the University of Southern Califor-
nia in 1949 and an M.A. from the
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy
in 1950. He served in the U.S. Army from
1943 to 1946.
1029
