Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sun Day, 1978
Proclamation 4558. March 27, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Today the need to develop and expand
renewable energy sources that can pro-
vide heating, cooling and power for
homes, farms and factories is greater than
at any other time in our Nation's history.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this 27th day of March,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:43 p.m., March 27, 1978]
United States Savings
Bonds Program
Memorandum From the President.
For this reason, Americans are seeking
ways of using the sun as an inexhaustible
source of clean energy.
The Federal government and private March 27, 1978
organizations are working on programs to
improve solar technology and encourage
greater use of this safe, environmentally
acceptable energy source. Our success,
however, will depend upon an informed
and involved public.
In order to inform the general public,
industry and labor about solar technolo-
gies and to demonstrate the sun's poten-
tial in meeting America's energy needs,
the Ninety-fifth Congress has adopted a
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 715) designat-
ing Wednesday, May 3, 1978, as Sun Day
and calling upon the President to issue a
proclamation calling for its appropriate
observance.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday,
May 3, 1978, as Sun Day and call upon
the American people to observe that day
with appropriate activities and cere-
monies that will demonstrate the poten-
tial of solar energy. I direct all appropri-
ate Federal agencies to support this
national observance.
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I have appointed Ray Marshall, Sec-
retary of Labor, as Chairman of the Fed-
eral Interagency Committee for the pur-
chase of United States Savings Bonds.
This is a crucial appointment, because he
will be charged with the responsibility for
making the government a leader in the
Savings Bonds program.
The U.S. Savings Bonds program is a
key tool in the management of the pub-
lic debt. Today Americans own $77 bil-
lion worth of these securities, more than
ever before. Savings Bonds constitute
nearly one-fifth of the publicly-held por-
tion of the Federal debt, and are the most
stable element in the entire debt structure.
The program has also helped individ-
uals save for a financially secure future.
Because the purchase of U.S. Savings
Bonds supports the Government's policies
and programs in these two important
ways, it is fitting that employees of the
Federal Government should take the ini-
tiative in the purchase of Savings Bonds
574
