Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 28
mendations of this report. I think it will
have a profound beneficial effect on our
country in years to come.
And as President I'm deeply indebted
to this group and the 450 other people
who worked on this report for what they
have contributed to our own ability to
serve the American people better.
Rosalynn and all of you, thank you very
much for what you've done.
NOTE: The ceremony began at 2 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Prior to his
remarks, the President received the report from
Mrs. Carter, Honorary Chairperson of the
Commission. Dr. Thomas E. Bryant is Chair-
man of the Commission.
The report is entitled "Report to the Presi-
dent From the President's Commission on
Mental Health, 1978" (Government Printing
Office, 94 pages plus appendices).
Loyalty Day, 1978
Proclamation 4567. April 27, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Throughout the remainder of our
third century of national existence,
America will face problems that will dif-
fer markedly from those we have con-
fronted in the past. Yet some things will
remain constant. Among these is the
loyalty of the American people.
Because we are a free people, the
loyalty we feel to our country is deeper
than that which any imposed political
or ideological orthodoxy could possibly
evoke. And as long as we continue to re-
main faithful to the principles and free-
doms on which our republic was founded,
that loyalty will see us through whatever
challenges lie ahead.
To encourage the people of the United
States to reflect upon the liberties and
institutions that have inspired the loyalty
of so many generations of Americans, the
Congress, by joint resolution of July 18,
1958 (72 Stat. 369; 36 U.S.C. 162) has
designated the first day of May of each
year as Loyalty Day and has requested
the President to issue a proclamation call-
ing for its appropriate observance.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, call upon all Americans to observe
Monday, May 1, 1978, as Loyalty Day. I
ask the appropriate officials of the Gov-
ernment to display the flag of the United
States on that day on all Government
buildings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of April, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:25 a.m., April 28, 1978]
The President's Visit to Panama
Announcement of the Visit. April 28, 1978
President Carter has accepted an invita-
tion from Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos to
visit Panama. In consultations with Pan-
ama, the dates of June 16 and 17 have
been set for the visit.
The principal purpose of the visit is to
sign the protocol confirming the exchange
of the documents ratifying the Panama
Canal treaties. Pursuant to a reservation
adopted by the Senate, the effective date
of this exchange will be March 31, 1979,
unless Congress passes implementing legis-
lation at an earlier date.
The details of the President's schedule
are being worked out with the Govern-
ment of Panama.
793
