Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 10
Panama next weekend, the Panama
Canal Treaty.
We are negotiating on a daily basis
with the Soviet Union on a SALT II
agreement. I think the prospects, as I
said a couple of days ago, are good. We
have narrowed down the difference to a
very small number of items, still very sig-
nificant. We don't see the end in sight
yet.
The comprehensive test ban negotia-
tions between ourselves, the Soviet Union,
and Great Britain are making good prog-
ress. We've just recently initiated talks
with the Soviet Union on two important
items. One is to limit the sale of conven-
tional weapons to other countries, and the
other one is to prohibit the attack on
peaceful satellites by either the Soviets or
us or to develop that capability.
We are quite concerned about Africa.
Our Nation has had a late-blooming in-
terest in Africa. I think it's true that 2
or 3 years ago we had very little interest
there. But we have strengthened our ties
of friendship, trade, understanding, com-
munication with many of the African
leaders who in the past looked on our
Nation with great concern or distrust. I
think this is a step in the right direction.
And, of course, we had a notable suc-
cess last week in putting together a very
strong recommitment of our Nation to
the support of NATO. And our allies in
that fine organization have reaffirmed
their commitment to providing strength. I
believe that only through a strong national
defense posture can we have enough sense
of security among American people to
give us a flexibility to negotiate reduction
in arms levels on a mutual basis or to
deal with our allies with a sense of mutual
commitment and partnership.
Well, these are just a few of the items.
I could list a dozen or so more. But I think
I would prefer to take what time we have
available answering your questions.
QUESTIONS
MAYOR RICHARD G. HATCHER OF GARY;
PETER F. FLAHERTY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dennis
Schatzman, Pittsburgh Courier. My ques-
tion is two-fold. One, Mayor Hatcher's
within the White House as one of your
recent refusal to accept the position
advisers raises the question, what is the
problem that people like Mayor Hatcher
and other notable blacks are refusing this
position? Is it because of the fact that
they are not satisfied with the amount of
power and accessibility that they want in
reference to you? If that's the case, what
is it they want, and why can't they get it?
And part two, your friend Peter Fla-
herty is running for Governor in my State
and has a very bad image in the black
part of Pittsburgh, his native Pittsburgh.
If he asked you to come in and campaign
for him, would you, for instance, go into
the black community and support him?
And if you would, what kind of way
would you posture yourself in an atmos-
phere that's quite hostile to Mr. Flaherty?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer your last
question first, I would be glad to help
Pete Flaherty in any way I could if he
requested it, either I or the members of
the Cabinet or the Vice President or my
wife or family. I think Pete did a good
job as mayor; I know him very well. He
was occupying one of the most difficult
positions in the Nation, that is, the mayor
of a major city. And I saw the progress
that was made in Pittsburgh. I don't
claim that he could meet the needs of all
the constituency groups to their satis-
faction.
I've also been able to observe Pete
Flaherty as he performed as a Deputy
Attorney General responsible for the ad-
ministration and enforcement of the laws
of our country, and he performed su-
1075
