Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Education and Labor in the House, we
seem to be here at this desk and watching
you sign so many measures into law that
expand opportunities for a full life for
people, protections where they need it. I
want to thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
There's one other person on whom I
want to call to make a statement, who has
been a key factor in the successful passage
of this legislation, that's Carl Perkins.
REPRESENTATIVE PERKINS. First, Mr.
President, let me thank you for the active
support that you have given to this legis-
lation ever since you came to the White
House. But for the support, the active
support, of the President due to the
Presidency and Senator Claude Pepper, I
don't think we would have been here
today.
This is a happy day for the elderly peo-
ple in this country. We're all happy about
the passage of this legislation, and I cer-
tainly want to thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. Paul?
REPRESENTATIVE FINDLEY. Mr. Presi-
dent, Paul Findley of Illinois. In 1974 I
introduced the first bill to outlaw manda-
tory retirement. There were then just
three cosponsors. It's become a very popu-
lar idea, I'm glad to say.
I consider your signature on this legis-
lation to be the most notable act to ad-
vance social justice in at least 10 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Well, I want to thank all of you for
coming. I know that we had to restrain
the participants this morning because of
the capacity of the Rose Garden. But this
is the kind of legislation that will have a
direct impact on literally millions of
Americans. And although it was a tough
battle and a long battle to get it passed,
the people around me deserve a great deal
of interest. And on behalf of the American
people who are not here, I want to thank
all of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:17 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House.
As enacted, H.R. 5383 is Public Law 95-256,
approved April 6.
Farm Legislation
Letter to Congressional Leaders Concerning
the Administration's Position on H.R. 6782.
April 6, 1978
Sixteen months ago, I asked Bob Berg-
land to join with the Congress to help re-
store a sense of direction and purpose to
the farm and food policies of this nation.
The extreme volatility of farm and food
prices of recent years has not been in the
best interest of either our Nation's farm-
ers or consumers.
When we took office, farm income was
in sharp decline. We undertook to reverse
this trend and return stability to the na-
tion's farm economy. Working with you
and other members of the Congress, we
developed the most sweeping farm legis-
lation of the past 40 years. Using the au-
thorities of that law, we have moved to
improve the incomes
the incomes of America's
farmers.
This policy is working. Our agricultural
economy has improved markedly in recent
months. To further strengthen this recov-
ery, we announced last week:
⚫ an expansion and liberalization of
the farmer-held grain reserve.
• paid diversion of 7 to 9 million acres
of excess cropland.
700
