June 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dent, I make the decisions, and I want to
be responsible for those decisions once
they are made.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, what precisely is our
position with relation to the Soviets? It
isn't always easy for us to discern the pre-
cise position. Is it hard-nosed or is it con-
ciliatory or is it somewhere in between?
I wonder whether you could refine your
answer on this a bit.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know any
clearer way to express it than I did in the
speech I made in Annapolis a few weeks
ago, which I very carefully wrote myself,
and a speech that I went over with my
advisers, almost every word in it.
We want to be friends with the Soviets.
We want to improve our relationship
with the Soviets. We want to make prog-
ress, and I might say we are making
progress on a SALT agreement, on a
comprehensive test ban agreement, the
prohibition against attacks on one an-
other's satellites, the reduction in the level
of forces in Eastern and Western Europe,
which I've already discussed, and so forth.
These discussions, these negotiations, are
going along very well. We're making good
progress. And as I said in my speech in
Annapolis, I believe that Mr. Brezhnev
wants the same thing I do. He wants peace
between our country and theirs.
We do, however, stay in a state of com-
petition. This is inevitable. I think it's
going to be that way 15, 20 years in the
future. We want to have accommodation
when we can mutually benefit from that
accommodation. We are willing to meet
the Soviets in competition of a peaceful
nature.
When the Soviets commit some act
with which we disagree, I have to make
a judgment whether to be quiet about it
or to speak out openly and acquaint the
American people with the facts so that
Americans can understand the interrela-
tionship between us and the Soviet
Union.
As I said, I think in an interview with
a Dallas newspaper a couple of weeks
ago, though, our relationship with the
Soviet Union overall is stable. It's not in
danger. There is no present threat to
peace.
The negotiations are proceeding in
good faith. There's no cause for alarm.
And I think this is pretty much a normal
circumstance. I would hope that when
we conclude the SALT and the compre-
hensive test ban negotiations, hopefully
without too much delay, that Mr. Brezh-
nev and I might meet personally and to
ratify the agreement that's basically been
hammered out.
We are much closer to an agreement
than we were a few weeks ago. We've
made good progress.
Q. No chance of a meeting before
then?
THE PRESIDENT. I have extended an
almost standing invitation to Mr. Brezh-
nev to come over and meet with me.
My belief, however, is that he will not
meet until the prospect for an agreement
is quite imminent. But I welcome this.
And I feel quite at ease about our rela-
tionship with the Soviet Union, although
there are public debates, public disputes,
sometimes public disagreements.
ANGOLA
Q. Secretary of State Vance has said
that we want to cooperate with the Neto
government in Angola, and we just sent
a diplomat over to Angola to do just that,
talk to them. But a few weeks earlier, the
CIA Director had been up on Capitol
Hill trying to get approval from the Sen-
ate for a plan to back-door weapons to
the rebels in Angola. What is the con-
1184
