Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
shared by many of our citizens in Florida
and throughout the nation.
Ratification of the Panama Canal
Treaties should not be viewed by any
power as signaling a retreat by the United
States in Latin America. Our country will
continue to play a visible and dynamic
role in Western Hemisphere affairs.
In particular, it has been and will con-
tinue to be the policy of the United States
to oppose any efforts, direct or indirect,
by the Soviet Union to establish military
bases in the Western Hemisphere. More-
over, we will maintain our military bases
in the Caribbean necessary to the defense
of the Panama Canal and the security of
the United States and its allies in the
Western Hemisphere.
You have asked when the Government
of Panama plans to hold Assembly elec-
tions. I am pleased to inform you that
Panama will hold elections for its Na-
tional Assembly on August 6 of this year.
The newly-elected members will take of-
fice in October.
You have done much to clarify ambi-
guities that have developed during the de-
bate on the Panama Canal Treaties. I
believe the Treaties are very important to
the continuing improvement in our rela-
tions with Latin America and I hope they
will have your support.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Richard Stone, United States
Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation
Appointment of Calvin W. Carter and Richard
H. Jenrette as Members of the Council.
January 27, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Calvin W. Carter and Rich-
ard H. Jenrette as members of the Advi-
sory Council on Historic Preservation for
terms expiring February 28, 1982.
Carter, 43, of Tampa, Fla., is president
and chief executive officer of the O. H.
Carter Co., an insurance company.
Jenrette, 48, of New York City, is also
designated Chairman of the Council. He
is chairman of the board and chief execu-
tive officer of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jen-
rette, Inc. He is a trustee of the National
Trust for Historic Preservation.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
January 20
While in Atlanta, Ga., the President
met with a group of Southern State Gov-
ernors at the Omni International Hotel.
January 21
The President attended funeral services
for his uncle, Alton Carter, in Plains, Ga.
January 23
The President returned to the White
House following a weekend stay at St.
Simons Island, Ga.
January 24
The President telephoned Canadian
Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau to
discuss joint U.S.-Canadian efforts to lo-
cate and assess the effects of a Soviet nu-
clear-powered Cosmos satellite which had
reentered the Earth's atmosphere over
northern Canada that morning.
The President met at the White House
with:
228
