Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
occupied by Israel. And we hope to search
out at the top level of government some
resolution of the differences on specifics
relating to the Sinai and also on a state-
ment of principles relating to the oc-
cupied territories of the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip, hoping at that time that
Egypt and the Jordanians and the
Palestinian Arabs who live in the West
Bank, Gaza Strip would be satisfied to
conclude perhaps some agreements and
to proceed with further negotiations lead-
ing to an ultimate resolution of the issue,
based on United Nations Resolution 242.
One of the crucial elements of any prog-
ress in the Middle East is a cleaving to
the commitment that U.N. 242 is a basis
for continued negotiations and a solution.
The abandonment of that would put us
back many months or years. So, this is
what I hope to accomplish with Prime
Minister Begin, to frankly discuss with
him my previous agreements and discus-
sions with President Sadat, to encourage
direct negotiations to be resumed, and to
search out common ground, based on ad-
vice given to me by Secretary of State
Vance and also by Mr. Atherton, on the
latest possible language changes that
might be necessary to let Egypt and Israel
agree. So, this is what I hope to ac-
complish, and I believe the personal dis-
cussions will be good.
provide for whistleblowers? And the other
part is that Frank Snepp, the ex-CIA
agent, is the most famous whistleblower
of all, writing a book exposing incom-
petence and treachery. After a report to
the Inspector General produced no re-
sults, you're prosecuting him. How does
this encourage whistleblowing?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'd like to re-
spond to those completely unbiased ques-
tions. [Laughter] I don't look on Frank
Snepp as one of the greatest whistle-
blowers of all times. He signed voluntarily
a contract, later confirmed this agreement
with the Director of the CIA, that before
his book was published that it would be
examined to assure there were no revela-
tions of secret material. And I have not
read the book; don't know the substance
of it. I don't believe that he has revealed
anything that would lead to an improve-
ment in our security apparatus or the
protection of Americans' civil rights.
But the Attorney General has decided
that when a contract is signed that it
ought to be honored. If everyone who
came into the CIA or other highly secret
organizations in Government felt free to
resign because of a dispute or to retire
at the end of satisfactory service and then
write a book revealing our Nation's ut-
most secrets, it would be very devastating
I would much prefer that the personal selves in peace or war and to negotiate
to our Nation's ability to protect our-
discussions be carried on between Sadat
and Begin. But in the absence of that
possibility at this moment, we hope to
restore it and act as an intermediary.
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
Q. There are several questions here
related to the civil service reorganization.
This is a combined question from Mary
McGrory of the Washington Star and
Mark Goodin of the Houston Post.
The first part is, what sort of protec-
tion will the Office of Special Counsel
on a confidential and successful basis with
other government leaders.
So, I believe that this is important as
a distinction to be drawn. The Special
Counsel will be there, independent from
me, to protect through the courts, if nec-
essary, those who are legitimate whistle-
blowers and who do point out violations
of ethics, or those who through serious
error hurt our country. And this is a func-
tion that's not presently extant. I think
it will be a step in the right direction, and
there will be presentation after investiga-
441
