Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 23
pur-
measures and dispositions as such Direc-
tor deems necessary to effectuate the
poses of this Reorganization Plan.
SECTION 402. Interim Officers.
(a) The President may authorize any
persons who, immediately prior to the
effective date of this Plan, held positions
in the Executive Branch of the Govern-
ment, to act as Director of the Office of
Personnel Management, the Deputy Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, the Special Counsel, the Chairman
and other members of the Federal Labor
Relations Authority, the Chairman and
other members of the Federal Service Im-
passes Panel, or the General Counsel of
the Authority, until those offices are for
the first time filled pursuant to the provi-
sions of this Reorganization Plan or by
recess appointment, as the case may be.
(b) The President may authorize any
such person to receive the compensation
attached to the Office in respect of which
that person so serves, in lieu of other com-
pensation from the United States.
SECTION 403. Effective Date. The provi-
sions of this Reorganization Plan shall
become effective at such time or times,
on or before January 1, 1979, as the Pres-
of $750,000 of funds made available
under the United States Emergency Ref-
ugee and Migration Assistance Fund
In order to meet emergent needs of
refugees who are in Somalia and Djibouti
as a result of hostilities in the Horn of
Africa, I hereby determine, pursuant to
Section 2(c) (1) of the Act, that it is im-
portant to the national interest that up to
$750,000 in funds appropriated under the
United States Emergency Refugee and
Migration Assistance Fund be made
available for assistance to such refugees.
This assistance will be furnished through
contributions to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, international
organizations and voluntary agencies
helping these refugees.
The Secretary of State is requested to
inform the appropriate committees of
Congress of the Determination and the
obligation of funds made under their
authority.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:55 p.m., June 9, 1978]
ident shall specify, but not sooner than Private Sector Initiative Program
the earliest time allowable under Section
906 of Title 5, United States Code.
Assistance for Refugees in
Somalia and Djibouti
Memorandum From the President.
May 23, 1978
Presidential Determination No. 78-12
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination pursuant to Sec-
tion 2(c) (1) of the Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended,
(The "Act") authorizing the obligation
Remarks at a White House Meeting on the
Employment Program. May 23, 1978
I'll just be with you here for a few min-
utes, and then I'll be back with you again
for supper.
This afternoon I've been having
budget hearings for fiscal year 1980, and
I've also been getting good news from
some of the business leaders about their
commitment to our effort to hold down
the inflation rate.
We've had remarkable success in the
last 16 months in dealing with the very
severe problem that we faced at the be-
ginning of last year on massive unemploy-
959
