Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 30
much lower. And I intend to reduce it
year by year until the end of my term.
We could have had about a $20 billion
lower Federal deficit had we not advo-
cated a tax cut. But there you have to
balance off the advantages from a tax cut
that's substantial and reducing the Fed-
eral deficit in a very rigid way. I think we
made the right choice.
We also have to deal with the jobs pro-
grams, and we had an increase in Federal
spending to put our people back to work,
to cut down the unemployment rate. At
the same time, we can't stimulate the
economy too much or we'd run into in-
creased rate of inflation.
So, those four factors have to go to-
gether, and I think we've put them to-
gether in a very careful way. If the Con-
gress should change any of those factors,
which I hope they will not, then we'd
have to use our own influence in the Con-
gress and with the American people to
try to induce them to accept some reason-
able alternative which would still keep
a balanced economic package.
Families are both the foundation of
American society and its most important
institution. In a world becoming more
complex every day, our families remain
the most lasting influence on our lives.
I am confident that the American
family is basically sound and that we can
and will adjust to the challenges of chang-
growing problems. Two out of five mar-
ing times. Yet American families confront
riages now end in divorce. One child in
eight is born outside of marriage. A mil-
lion young Americans now run away from
home each year. In the face of these diffi-
culties, I am encouraged by the increasing
interest in the state of the family by people
from all walks of life.
The main purpose of this White House
Conference will be to examine the
strengths of American families, the diffi-
culties they face, and the ways in which
family life is affected by public policies.
The Conference will examine the impor-
tant effects that the world of work, the
mass media, the court system, private in-
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. stitutions, and other major facets of our
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-fourth news
conference began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450
of the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
White House Conference on
Families
Statement Announcing the Conference.
January 30, 1978
In order to help stimulate a national
discussion of the state of American fami-
lies, I will convene a White House Con-
ference on Families in Washington, D.C.,
December 9-13, 1979.
society have on American families.
This Conference will clearly recognize
the pluralism of family life in America.
The widely differing regional, religious,
cultural, and ethnic heritages of our coun-
try affect family life and contribute to its
diversity and strength. Families also differ
in age and composition. There are families
in which several generations live together,
families with two parents or one, and
families with or without children. The
Conference will respect this diversity.
The work of this Conference, in con-
junction with our current efforts to imple-
ment family-oriented government policies,
can help strengthen and support this most
vital and enduring social resource. I look
forward to participating in the work of
the Conference and receiving its report.
251
