Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
ited Federal resources. In fiscal 1976,
Federal outlays amounted to 22½ per-
cent of the Nation's gross national prod-
uct. This is considerably higher than the
share devoted to government spending
that prevailed for many years. To some
degree, the recent higher share reflects the
fact that the economy is still performing
below its capacity, and that Federal pro-
grams to support the unemployed and the
needy are larger than they would be in a
high-employment economy. But it also
stems from very rapid growth in a num-
ber of Federal programs instituted over
the past 10 to 15 years.
Most of our Federal expenditure pro-
grams are designed to achieve important
national goals that the private sector of
the economy cannot accomplish. Only the
government can provide for the national
defense, and government resources are
essential to cushion the hardships created
by economic recession, to preserve our na-
tional resources, to protect the environ-
ment, and to meet other critical needs.
The Federal Government has a partic-
ular obligation to provide assistance to
those who remain in need even during
good times. Last year I presented to the
Congress a program to reform the wel-
fare system—the Better Jobs and Income
Act of 1977—that is a concrete example
of our commitment to devote resources
to the most pressing national needs. My
program will cost money. But it also will
establish a more easily understood wel-
fare system that is less costly to admin-
ister, less subject to abuse, and more re-
sponsive to the true needs of those who
receive a helping hand from government.
This program will create up to 1.4 million
jobs for those able to work, and it will re-
place the patchwork of Federal, State,
and local programs with a consistent in-
come-support system that will relieve
much of the enormous burden now placed
on State and local governments.
In the management of a business en-
terprise, efficiency is enforced by the dis-
cipline of the market place. The collec-
tive judgments of millions of consumers
establish an environment in which waste
and efficiency are eventually penalized.
The government, however, is not subject
to that discipline. We in government must
therefore impose stringent controls on
ourselves to ensure greater efficiency and
to make better choices among the possible
uses of the taxpayers' money.
To assist us in this endeavor, I have
adopted methods of budgetary control
that have been tested in the business
community. Early last year I asked the
Office of Management and Budget to in-
augurate a system of zero-based budget-
ing throughout the Federal Government.
Within this budgetary system, every Fed-
eral program is given careful scrutiny—
no matter how large or how small it may
be, no matter how long it has been in ex-
istence or how recently established. This
new system of budgetary planning helped
to hold down less essential outlays in the
budget for fiscal 1979 and focus our re-
sources on our important national needs.
It will produce even greater savings in
subsequent years. A process of multiyear
budgeting also has been inaugurated
within the Federal Government that will
require tentative budget plans to be de-
veloped and reviewed for three years
ahead. With this system we can more
effectively control future expenditures—
by avoiding commitments now to en-
deavors that would grow in the future
beyond the proportions we desire.
In formulating my recommendations
for the 1979 budget, I have exercised
very strict controls over spending. Ad-
justed for inflation, the increase in out-
133
