Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 7
forceful about our nonproliferation pro-
gram, pointed out to him very frankly and
bluntly that the Congress was likely to
pass stringent requirements on fuel sup-
plies in the future, with my approval.
And I wanted him to know at least 18
months ahead of time that it would affect
India.
And he and I made a joke of it several
times after that in a perfectly easy way.
And after we departed, their reports to
the press were that it was a very construc-
tive visit.
I think it showed Desai was, as I re-
ferred to him, adamant in the Indian
position. We tried to evolve some solution
to this potential conflict about interna-
tional safeguards on production of nuclear
power versus an adequate supply of fuel.
One possibility that we will explore is that
if we and the Soviets, the British, can con-
clude a comprehensive test ban, that this
would be an adequate new factor to per-
mit Desai to accept comprehensive safe-
guards without having to violate the prin-
ciples of autonomy or independence.
But I regret that the open mike thing
occurred. I can't mislead you about that.
Between me and Desai, it was always a
matter of humor and good reception. I
think anybody that observed me and him
closely saw that there was a genuine feel-
ing of mutual respect.
Q. Let me just follow up here.
THE PRESIDENT. Please do. But it was
a mistake.
Q. Yes, sir, it was probably a mistake,
but was it a mistake because of the way
the press operates or was it a mistake on
your part?
THE PRESIDENT. It was a mistake on
my part. I should have said "a very frank
and factual letter" and not "a blunt and
cold letter.” But what I was trying to talk
about to Cy Vance-obviously I had
nothing of ill feeling toward Desai—what
I was talking about was it was a cold,
technical subject, and it ought to be de-
scribed to the Indians in no uncertain
terms so that they would know what to
expect 18 months after the legislation
takes place.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, I am intrigued that
you-I don't want to belabor the Middle
East episode, but it certainly did over-
shadow the trip in many ways; develop-
ments kept going-you say that-Sadat
said that you have an identity of views,
and you say that you don't seem to have
any differences. Does that put you-and
Sadat has differences with Begin-so
where does that put you with Begin?
THE PRESIDENT. I read the news re-
ports after my statement at Aswan, and
Begin expressed approval of what I said.
There is a fairly good agreement between
Begin and Sadat on matters concerning
the definition of peace.
Sadat told me that when he met in
April with me in Washington and I out-
lined the three basic principles, one was
complete peace between Egypt and
Israel-open borders, diplomatic recogni-
tion, ambassadorial exchange, free trade,
tourist and student and cultural ex-
changes. And he told me it would never
happen in his lifetime, which he did-he
told me that in April.
He told me the other morning in Aswan
that he was completely wrong, that not
only was he well accepted in Israel but
he was a hero when he came back to
Egypt, that when the Israeli negotiators
came to Cairo, that they were embraced
and the Egyptians wept. And he said to
me, "My people were far ahead of me,
and what you proposed in April that I
thought was never possible has already
proven to be possible." That's one aspect.
43
