Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 1
I expect to learn firsthand about some
of Africa's problems and opportunities
from your distinguished leaders.
General Obasanjo, thank you for your
welcome. It is a great pleasure for me, for
my wife, for my daughter, and other
American officials, to be with you in
your great and growing country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:12 a.m. at
Dodan Barracks.
The President had arrived in Lagos on the
evening of March 31. He was met at Murtala
Muhammed Airport by General Obasanjo,
Head of State of Nigeria, and then went to
the State House Marina where he stayed dur-
ing his visit to Lagos.
Following the welcoming ceremony, the
President and General Obasanjo went to the
VIP Room at Dodan Barracks for meetings.
The President then proceeded to Tafawa
Balewa Square, where he placed a wreath at
the memorial cenotaph, dedicated to the
memory of Nigerian soldiers who died in the
two World Wars and the Nigerian civil war.
Lagos, Nigeria
Remarks at the National Arts Theatre.
April 1, 1978
DR. AKINYEMI. Your Excellency, Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter, Mrs. Carter, Your
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great honor for me to welcome
you and Mrs. Carter this afternoon on be-
half of the Nigerian Institute of Interna-
tional Affairs.
All of us here this afternoon are privi-
leged to be present at this significant occa-
sion, when the President of the United
States speaks to the Nigerian people. This
occasion is an indication of the President's
recognition of the need to talk not only
to governments but also to peoples; to
share his views not only with government
officials but also with the general public.
This occasion is also a recognition of the
formidable role which informed and ar-
ticulate public opinion plays in the formu-
lation and development of a nation's
foreign policy.
Commentators on the present foreign
policy of the United States are quick to
point out the constraints which are placed
on the President in the development of
policies towards other nations. This plu-
rality of society is one of the things which
Nigeria has in common with the United
States.
In the case of Nigeria, this pluralism
manifests itself in enormous pressures on
our Government to pursue our foreign
policy objectives as rapidly and vigorously
as possible. This occasion is a recognition
of the pluralism of Nigerian society.
Mr. President, the Nigerian public has
noticed the new direction which you have
given to the foreign policy of the United
States, the sincerity of your crusade
against violations of human rights
throughout the world, and your commit-
ment to the right of individual nations to
self-determination. But at the same time,
the Nigerian public has learned to meas-
ure policy pronouncements by results and
not by expectations.
The Nigerian public believes that the
United States has a duty to mankind to
take positive policy initiatives in southern
Africa. The Nigerian public hopes that
your deep concern for human rights, Mr.
President, will be translated into action
aimed at destroying institutionalized vio-
lation of human rights in southern Africa.
As representatives of the Nigerian pub-
lic privileged to be here this afternoon, we
await your voice, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Director Akinyemi,
Commissioner Garba, distinguished offi-
cials of the Government of Nigeria and
of the United States, distinguished guests
from other countries, and my friends, the
Nigerian people:
645
