June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(c) establish a process to decide ap-
peals from denials of declassification re-
quests submitted pursuant to Section
3-5;
(d) establish a program to familiarize
agency and other personnel who have ac-
cess to classified information with the
provisions of this Order and implement-
ing directives. This program shall im-
press upon agency personnel their re-
sponsibility to exercise vigilance in com-
plying with this Order. The program
shall encourage agency personnel to chal-
lenge, through Mandatory Review and
other appropriate procedures, those clas-
sification decisions they believe to be
improper;
(e) promulgate guidelines for system-
atic review in accordance with Section
3-402;
(f) establish procedures to prevent un-
necessary access to classified information,
including procedures which require that a
demonstrable need for access to classified
information is established before initiat-
ing administrative clearance procedures,
and which ensures that the number of
people granted access to classified infor-
mation is reduced to and maintained at
the minimum number that is consistent
with operational requirements and
needs; and
(g) ensure that practices for safe-
guarding information are systematically
reviewed and that those which are dupli-
cative or unnecessary are eliminated.
5-405. Agencies shall submit to the In-
formation Security Oversight Office such
information or reports as the Director of
the Office may find necessary to carry out
the Office's responsibilities.
5-5. Administrative Sanctions.
5-501. If the Information Security
Oversight Office finds that a violation of
this Order or any implementing directives
may have occurred, it shall make a report
to the head of the agency concerned so
that corrective steps may be taken.
5-502. Officers and employees of the
United States Government shall be sub-
ject to appropriate administrative sanc-
tions if they:
(a) knowingly and willfully classify or
continue the classification of information
in violation of this Order or any imple-
menting directives; or
(b) knowingly, willfully and without
authorization disclose information prop-
erly classified under this Order or prior
Orders or compromise properly classified
information through negligence; or
(c) knowingly and willfully violate any
other provision of this Order or imple-
menting directive.
5-503. Sanctions may include repri-
mand, suspension without pay, removal,
termination of classification authority, or
other sanction in accordance with appli-
cable law and agency regulations.
5-504. Agency heads shall ensure that
appropriate and prompt corrective action
is taken whenever a violation under Sec-
tion 5-502 occurs. The Director of the In-
formation Security Oversight Office shall
be informed when such violations occur.
5-505. Agency heads shall report to the
Attorney General evidence reflected in
classified information of possible viola-
tions of Federal criminal law by an agency
employee and of possible violations by any
other person of those Federal criminal
laws specified in guidelines adopted by
the Attorney General.
SECTION 6. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
6-1. Definitions.
6-101. "Agency" has the meaning de-
fined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
6-102. "Classified information" means
information or material, herein collec-
tively termed information, that is owned
1206
