Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
substantial part of the bituminous coal
industry of the United States. As a result
of dwindling coal stocks in the affected re-
gion, electricity curtailments are in effect,
the production of materials and parts es-
sential to manufacturing industries has
decreased, and unemployment has in-
creased and threatens to increase drasti-
cally if the coal strike is allowed to con-
tinue. This strike, if permitted to con-
tinue, will imperil the national health and
safety.
Therefore, in order to remove this peril
and to secure the resumption of bitumi-
nous coal production, I direct you at this
time, pursuant to the provisions of Section
208 of the Labor Management Relations
Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 178), to petition in
the name of the United States in any Dis-
trict Court of the United States having
jurisdiction of the parties to enjoin the
continuance of such strike in the bitumi-
nous coal industry and for such other re-
tiating stalemate, and we know that this
has closed our Nation's coal mines.
This morning, the Board presented its
report to me. Its finding was that an im-
passe does exist and that the situation is
serious. This morning, using the authority
of the Taft-Hartley Act, I directed the
Attorney General to seek this afternoon
a court injunction which will order the
miners to return to work and the opera-
tors to open the mines during the 80-day
cooling off period, during which time ne-
gotiations will proceed.
The welfare of our Nation requires this
difficult step, and I expect that all parties
will obey the law. The Federal Govern-
ment will use its resources to minimize the
national economic and social dislocations
caused by this labor dispute.
The Department of Energy and the
State Governors will improve the distri-
bution of energy resources by moving our
lief as may in your judgment be necessary supplies of coal to places where the need
or appropriate.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Griffin B. Bell, The Attorney
General, Washington, D.C. 20530]
NOTE: The White House press release also in-
cluded the text of the Board of Inquiry's report
to the President.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 9, 1978
The President. Good afternoon. I have
two brief statements to make before I an-
swer questions.
THE COAL STRIKE
Three days ago, I appointed a Board
of Inquiry whose purpose under the Taft-
Hartley Act was to investigate the nego-
is most urgent. The relief agencies of the
Federal Government are prepared, if nec-
essary, to act in a coordinated fashion to
assist local areas which are particularly
hard hit.
This is a time for cooling off. We will
do everything in our power to be sure that
it does not become a time of confronta-
tion. The law must be enforced.
I have met this afternoon with the
Attorney General and have asked him
to assume personal direction of Federal
law enforcement activities in this area.
The Secretary of Labor just informed
me that he has asked the Board of In-
quiry, as an extension of their duties, to
go into the coal mining areas and consult
with the miners, to encourage compliance
with the law and to return to the negoti-
ating area.
There is no easy solution to this prob-
lem. What is required from all of us now
is reason, patience, and a willingness to
489
