Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Our visit here takes place at a time
when the relations between Romania and
the United States have seen continuous
progress. Indeed, in the last 10 years,
there was a significant growth in our eco-
nomic exchanges, which have increased
almost 10 times over, as well as in our co-
operation in the field of science, culture,
and in the exchange of citizens between
our two countries.
I do hope that in the course of our
talks these days we shall be able to iden-
tify new opportunities, so that in the
forthcoming years we shall make even
more significant progress in our relation-
ship, in full accord with the basic inter-
ests of our two nations and with the
interests of cooperation and peace
throughout the world.
It is true, as you mentioned, sir, that
our two countries have different social
systems. But I believe that in the world
of today this should not be an obstacle
in the way of more active cooperation in
all fields, based on mutual respect of each
country's independence and sovereignty,
renunciation of the use or threat of force,
and mutually advantageous cooperation.
I would like to mention with satisfac-
tion, as well, that it is precisely on that
basis that the relations between Romania
and the United States have been estab-
lished and are now developing.
So, Mr. President, I think we can be
satisfied with the present level of the
relations between our two countries. As
for the state of international affairs, un-
fortunately we are still facing events
which are both complex and complicated.
The world is now confronted with se-
vere economic problems. In many areas
of the world there are still conflicts, and
threatening clouds are menacing the
peace of the world with very severe
consequences.
In the face of this situation, it is now
necessary for all countries, irrespective of
their size, of their military might, of their
social system, to take action and to up-
hold the principles of peaceful coexist-
ence in order to build a kind of cooper-
ation based on equal rights and mutual
respect, and to ensure to each nation the
right to develop in freedom without any
outside interference.
As participants and signatories of the
Helsinki documents on European secu-
rity, both Romania and the United States
are working for the implementation of
those documents, which we both see as
one whole in the economic, cultural, sci-
entific, humanitarian fields, as well as in
the field of military disengagement.
Unfortunately, at Belgrade, no signifi-
cant progress was made. That is why
we believe it necessary now that before
our next meeting in Madrid, new ef-
forts should be made in order to meet
the peoples' aspiration for peace and
cooperation.
It is also true that no effort should be
spared in order to bring peace to the
Middle East, leading to the withdrawal of
Israel from the territories occupied as
a result of 1967 war, the settlement of
the Palestinian question, including the
establishment of an independent Pales-
tinian state, and by guaranteeing the in-
dependence, sovereignty, and integrity of
all the states in the area, which should
establish their relations on the principles
of good neighborly relations and
cooperation.
We would like to work together closely
on such matters as disarmament. We are
hopeful that at the forthcoming Special
Session of the United Nations General
Assembly, practical results will be worked
out, leading to actual disarmament and, in
particular, nuclear disarmament, enabling
us thus to build a world of cooperation
and peace for all.
Although the United States is a devel-
oped country—I would say a highly de-
736
