June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Today we have an uncommon oppor-
tunity to tackle some fundamental prob-
lems which we've had to push aside while
tending to more urgent crises like civil
rights a few years ago, or Watergate, or
the war in Vietnam.
Energy is one of these persistent prob-
lems that we now have to deal with. Like
inflation, it's not a problem that we cre-
ated, it's one that we inherited.
As America entered this decade, our per
capita energy consumption was already
nearly double that of the United King-
dom and West Germany, triple that of
France and Japan, more than quadruple
that of the rest of the developed world.
Each year our appetite for imported oil
has grown. We would need a new North
Slope or a new North Sea every year or 15
months just to keep up with the present
rate of growth in energy consumption. Al-
though we differ on the exact date, there
is no doubt that at some point in this cen-
tury, central global petroleum demand is
going to exceed global petroleum supply.
Our strategy for change, controversial,
is now being considered by the Congress, is
focused and fair. It's based on three ele-
mentary and essential principles: first is
conservation-stop wasting. The second
one is to encourage exploration and pro-
duction and give incentives to do so. And
third is to develop alternatives to fossil
fuels.
I want to emphasize just one aspect of
conservation that is sometimes overlooked.
We waste in this country almost half of
the energy we use. Fuel economy must be
a primary consideration in the design of
our industrial plants, our homes, our ve-
hicles, our splendid array of large and
small appliances.
The second element of the energy pro-
gram provides incentives for new produc-
tion and exploration. The energy legisla-
tion will make sure that American oil
commands as high a price as any in the
world. New natural gas supplies will get
generous price increases immediately and
full deregulation in 1985.
Now, these rewards, which don't suit
everyone I realize that-are balanced by
essential safeguards to protect consumers
here in Texas and elsewhere in the
country.
Our third and final strategy is speeding
the conversion to more abundant existing
fuels. This State, Texas, set an example
for the Nation with your pioneering 1975
statewide conversion program to coal.
Texas will continue to be a major energy
State long after you have exhausted the
major portion of your petroleum reserves.
You have geothermal steam, geopressur-
ized methane sources to tap. You have
substantial lignite reserves you're now be-
ginning to use in large quantities. You're
the Nation's third largest producers of
uranium, and you're working hard to ad-
vance the day when such renewable re-
sources as the Sun, wind, and biomass will
relieve some of the demand for oil and gas
and coal.
These alternative fuels are critical to
the continuing economic growth of your
State and the Nation, and they are equally
vital to our continuing strong national
defense.
It's essential that we pass this energy
legislation. It's been thoroughly debated.
All viewpoints have been considered.
Compromises have been made for 14
months. Each day that we continue with-
out a national energy policy further erodes
our domestic economy and also our inter-
national image.
In fact, and unfortunately, we do have
an energy policy now. It's a policy by de-
1172
