Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
on the background of this tremendous
organization and also listening to the re-
port on the future of the organization.
And I've been thrilled with your past
accomplishments, and I've been touched
by some of the struggles that you've ex-
perienced in your own history. I con-
gratulate you on your 100th anniversary.
I would like to begin my speech with
a quote from a book published in 1852.
"Jarndyce and Jarndyce drones on.
This scarecrow of a suit has, in the course
of time, become so complicated that no
man alive knows what it means-innu-
merable children have been born into the
case; innumerable old people have died
out of it; whole families have inherited
legendary hatreds with the suit-there
are not three Jarndyces left upon the
earth, perhaps since old Tom Jarndyce in
despair blew his brains out at a coffee
house in Chancery Lane, but Jarndyce
and Jarndyce still drags its dreary length
before the court."
This quotation comes from the novel
"Bleak House," and although Charles
Dickens, who, by the way, was a court
reporter himself, was writing about a
chancery suit in London long ago, he
could have been writing about a modern
antitrust suit in Federal Court. His sub-
ject was the same that should preoccupy
you and me-lawyers, mayors, Gover-
nors, and the President of the United
States, that is, ensuring that our legal
system serves the ends of justice without
delay.
I'm not a lawyer, but there is no ques-
tion that has concerned me more through-
out my adult life than that of human jus-
tice-striving to alleviate the inequali-
ties, the unfairness, the chance differ-
ences of fortune that exist among people,
and to help ensure that all people possess
the basic material and political rights
that they need for full participation in
the life of our society.
I grew up in a community in Georgia
that often did not provide simple justice
for a majority of our citizens because of
the divisions of privilege between those
who owned land and property and those
who did not, the divisions of power be-
tween those who controlled the political
system and those who were controlled by
it, the wall of discrimination that sepa-
rated blacks and whites.
As a Governor and as a President, I've
learned that, as Reinhold Niebuhr
said, "It is the sad duty of politics to es-
tablish justice in a sinful world." I'm
trying now as your President to carry our
Nation's message of basic justice and
human rights to other nations. But I
know that we cannot speak of human
rights in other countries unless we are
going to do our utmost to protect the
rights of our own people here at home.
Let me tell you about some of the
things that concern me.
On the last day of the administration
of Lyndon Johnson, the Government
filed an antitrust suit against a major
computer company. Nine years have
passed; three new Presidential adminis-
trations have taken office; hundreds of
millions of dollars have been spent on
legal fees. But still the trial is not nearly
over, and it has been speculated that the
judge who has supervised it for the last 9
years may die or retire before the trial is
completed, in which case it would start
all over again. Generations of computers
have come and gone; there is not a single
computer now being sold that were being
sold when the case began—but still the
case goes on.
I'm worried about a legal system in
which expensive talent on both sides pro-
duces interminable delay—especially
when delay itself can often mean victory
for one side.
835
