Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
nothing for, and may even disadvantage,
our import sensitive industries and our ex-
porters not using the DISC provision. In-
dependent experts believe that DISC may
have had no positive effect on our balance
of payments.
Congress has recognized the wasteful
nature of DISC and, in 1976, limited its
applicability. However, DISC continues
to cost U.S. taxpayers over $1 billion per
year, with 65 percent of DISC benefits
going to corporations with more than
$250 million in assets.
I propose the elimination of one-third
of DISC benefits in 1979, two-thirds in
1980, and all DISC benefits in 1981 and
thereafter.
Foreign Tax Deferral
Domestic corporations can now avoid
paying a U.S. tax on the earnings of their
foreign subsidiaries as long as those earn-
ings remain overseas. A U.S. tax is gen-
erally deferred until dividends are paid by
the subsidiary to its domestic parent, and
then U.S. tax liability is offset by a tax
credit for foreign income taxes paid on
those remitted earnings. Fifty percent of
all the benefits of tax deferral is obtained
by 30 large multinational corporations.
I recommend that this deferral privi-
lege be phased out over a 3-year period.
At least one-third of a foreign subsidiary's
earnings will be taxed to the U.S. parent
in 1979, at least two-thirds in 1980, and
all the subsidiary's earnings after 1980.
The tax reform program is designed to
create incentives for investment in the
United States and the creation of jobs for
American workers. Tax deferral runs
counter to these objectives. By providing
a preference for foreign source income,
the current deferral provision provides an
incentive for investing abroad rather than
in the United States, thereby having the
effect of reducing job opportunities for
Americans. Moreover, deferral can en-
courage multinational corporations to
manipulate internal transfer prices in or-
der to allocate income to low-tax
countries.
There is no reason to defer the imposi-
tion of a U.S. tax just because business
operations are conducted abroad rather
than in the United States, regardless of
the motivation for creating a foreign sub-
sidiary. Congress eliminated in 1969 cer-
tain special tax preferences for busi-
nesses conducted in the United States
through multi-layered corporations. I
propose that Congress act in a similar
manner to end the present preference for
business operations conducted interna-
tionally through such multinational cor-
porate structures.
The foreign tax credit will be retained
in its present form. Therefore, elimina-
tion of deferral will not result in a double
taxation of overseas earnings. And, in the
event it appears to be in the national in-
terest to permit tax deferral with respect
to specific countries, such treatment can
be provided selectively under negotiated
tax treaties involving mutual concessions.
SPECIAL TAX REDUCTIONS PROPOSED TO
REDUCE COSTS FOR CONSUMERS
BUSINESSES
AND
I
propose two tax reduction meas-
ures outside the income tax system-
that will assist our efforts to attain price
stability.
Repeal of Excise Tax on Telephone Serv-
ices
The present 4 percent excise tax on
amounts paid for telephone services is
now being phased out at the rate of 1
percentage point a year, with full repeal
scheduled as of January 1, 1982.
I recommend complete repeal of this
tax as of October 1, 1978. This action will
reduce the cost of living directly. It will
also lower consumer prices indirectly
173
