Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 6
shed programs of the Soil Conservation county, city and other local levels of gov-
Service by:
-working with the Fish and Wildlife
Service to apply fully the recently-
adopted stream channel modifica-
tion guidelines;
-encouraging accelerated land treat-
ment measures prior to funding of
structural measures on watershed
projects, and making appropriate
land treatment measures eligible for
Federal cost-sharing;
-establishing periodic post-project
periodic post-project
monitoring to ensure implementa-
tion of land treatment and opera-
tion and maintenance activities
specified in the work plan and to
provide information helpful in im-
proving the design of future projects.
• A directive to Federal agency heads
to provide increased cooperation with
States and leadership in maintaining in-
stream flows and protecting groundwater
through joint assessment of needs, in-
creased assistance in the gathering and
sharing of data, appropriate design and
operation of Federal water facilities, and
other means. I also call upon the Gov-
ernors and the Congress to work with
Federal agencies to protect the fish and
wildlife and other values associated with
adequate instream flows. New and exist-
ing projects should be planned and oper-
ated to protect instream flows, consistent
with State law and in close consultation
with States. Where prior commitments
and economic feasibility permit, amend-
ments to authorizing statutes should be
ernment. I want to work with the Con-
gress, State and local governments and the
public to implement this policy. Together
we can protect and manage our nation's
water resources putting water to use for
society's benefit, preserving our rivers and
streams for future generations of Ameri-
cans, and averting critical water shortages
in the future through adequate supply,
conservation and wise planning.
The White House,
June 6, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
National Commission on
Unemployment Compensation
Appointment of Bert Seidman and
Delores G. Sanchez as Members.
June 6, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the National Commission on Unem-
ployment Compensation. They are Bert
Seidman, of Falls Church, Va., director
of the AFL-CIO's department of social
security, and Delores G. Sanchez, of Los
Angeles, Calif., partner in La Quebradita
Supermarket in Los Angeles and a found-
ing member of the Mexican American
Grocers Association.
sought in order to provide for streamflow Robert F. Kennedy
maintenance.
CONCLUSION
These initiatives establish the goals and
the framework for water policy reform.
They do so without impinging on the
rights of States and by calling for a closer
partnership among the Federal, State,
Statement by the President. June 6, 1978
The death of Robert Kennedy, 10 years
ago today, was a terrible blow to the
people of this Nation and the world. As
a champion of the poor, of the victims of
injustice, and of reconciliation and peace,
he was an apostle and a symbol of hope.
1051
