Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Now, this past year in 1977, you, the
Congress, and I together passed a new
agricultural act. It went into effect Oc-
tober 1. It'll have its first impact on the
1978 crops. It will help a great deal. It'll
add $62 billion or more to help the
farmers with their price supports and
target prices.
Last year we had the highest level of
exports of farm products in the history of
our country-$24 billion. We expect to
have more this year. We'll be working to-
gether. But I think it's incumbent on us to
monitor very carefully the farm situation
and continue to work harmoniously with
the farmers of our country. What's best
for the farmers, the farm families, in the
long run is also best for the consumers of
our country.
Economic success at home is also the key
to success in our international economic
policy. An effective energy program,
strong investment and productivity, and
controlled inflation will provide [improve]
our trade balance and balance it, and it
will help to protect the integrity of the
dollar overseas.
By working closely with our friends
abroad, we can promote the economic
health of the whole world, with fair and
balanced agreements lowering the barriers
to trade.
Despite the inevitable pressures that
build up when the world economy suffers
from high unemployment, we must firm-
ly resist the demands for self-defeating
protectionism. But free trade must also be
fair trade. And I am determined to pro-
tect American industry and American
workers against foreign trade practices
which are unfair or illegal.
In a separate written message to Con-
gress, I've outlined other domestic initia-
tives, such as welfare reform, consumer
protection, basic education skills, urban
policy, reform of our labor laws, and na-
tional health care later on this year. I will
not repeat these tonight. But there are
several other points that I would like to
make directly to you.
During these past years, Americans
have seen our Government grow far from
us.
For some citizens, the Government has
almost become like a foreign country, so
strange and distant that we've often had
to deal with it through trained ambassa-
dors who have sometimes become too
powerful and too influential-lawyers, ac-
countants, and lobbyists. This cannot go
on.
We must have what Abraham Lincoln
wanted a government for the people.
We've made progress toward that kind
of government. You've given me the au-
thority I requested to reorganize the Fed-
eral bureaucracy. And I am using that
authority.
We've already begun a series of re-
organization plans which will be com-
pleted over a period of 3 years. We have
also proposed abolishing almost 500 Fed-
eral advisory and other commissions and
boards. But I know that the American
people are still sick and tired of Federal
paperwork and redtape. Bit by bit we are
chopping down the thicket of unneces-
sary Federal regulations by which Gov-
ernment too often interferes in our per-
sonal lives and our personal business.
We've cut the public's Federal paperwork
load by more than 12 percent in less than
a year. And we are not through cutting.
We've made a good start on turning the
gobbledygook of Federal regulations into
plain English that people can understand.
But we know that we still have a long
way to go.
We've brought together parts of 11
Government agencies to create a new De-
partment of Energy. And now it's time
94
