Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
tains a predominant air capability and
military capability. There is no threat to
their security. But it also lets the nations
involved and the world know that our
friendship, our partnership, our sharing of
military equipment with the moderate
Arab nations is an important permanent
factor of our foreign policy.
U.S. COMMERCIAL BANK LOANS TO BRAZIL
Q. Mr. President, from Jornal do
Brasil. The American commercial banks
are the main Brazilian source of external
credit. It seems to some people in Wash-
ington that sooner or later a Congressman
may try to establish a link between the
commercial banking loans and the human
rights policy. I'd like to know your opinion
about this subject.
THE PRESIDENT. Brazil is a major trad-
ing partner of the United States in com-
mercial goods and also in loans and, I
might say, timely repayments. The debt of
Brazil is very manageable. The loans of
the American banks to Brazil are sound.
Additional loans are being pursued by the
American banks as an excellent advantage
for their future investments in Brazil,
based on the strength of your country.
It would be inconceivable to me that any
act of Congress would try to restrict the
lending of money by American private
banks to Brazil under any circumstances.
This would violate the principles of our
own free enterprise system, and if such an
act was passed by Congress, I would not
approve it.
FREE ENTERPRISE AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. What comes in the first place for
you: the private enterprise and the pri-
vate system or the human rights policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they're both im-
portant to us. And I don't see any incom-
patibility between a belief in a free en-
terprise system, where government does
not dominate the banks or the production
of agricultural products or commercial
products on the one hand, and a deep and
consistent and permanent and strong
belief in enhancing human rights around
the world.
I might say that the American business
community, the Congress of the United
States, the general populace of the United
States supports completely a commit-
ment of our Nation to human rights. It's
a basic element of our national conscious-
ness that has no violation at all-or no
conflict between human rights on the one
hand and the free enterprise system on
the other.
NAMIBIA
Q. Mr. President, tomorrow you fly to
Africa. What can you tell us today about
the revised five-power proposals on
Namibia?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, under
the auspices of the United Nations, our
own country, Canada, Britain, France,
and the Federal Republic of Germany
have been working jointly to present to
South Africa and to the so-called SWAPO
organization, South West Africa Political
Organization, a compromise solution to
restoring majority rule in Namibia.
We have presented this proposal this
week to the South African Government,
which now controls Namibia, and also to
the SWAPO leaders. We are hopeful that
if the proposal is not completely accept-
able to both those parties, that it will at
least be acceptable enough to prevent uni-
lateral action on the part of South Africa
to hold elections in complete violation
of the United Nations resolutions and in
complete violation of the principle of re-
storing majority rule to Namibia.
I can't tell you what the outcome of
those consultations will be. I will get a
more complete report when I arrive in
Lagos. Ambassador Young has been in
629
