Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing and experience. Wage rates are bid up
and prices follow, while large numbers
from other groups are still looking unsuc-
cessfully for work. Efforts to reduce un-
employment among the unskilled and
otherwise disadvantaged can be frustrated
by inflationary pressures set off in those
sectors of the labor market already fully
employed.
To reach high levels of employment
while maintaining reasonable price sta-
bility, we must take effective and ade-
quate measures now to increase the em-
ployment opportunities of the disadvan-
taged. This principle is a key element of
the Humphrey-Hawkins Bill-The Full
Employment and Balanced Growth Act.
I support this legislation and hope the
Congress will enact it.
We have already taken several signifi-
cant steps in this direction. Last year I
proposed and the Congress appropriated
$8.4 billion to expand the Public Service
Employment Program to 725,000 jobs.
These jobs are more sharply targeted on
the long-term unemployed and the poor
than previous programs under the Com-
prehensive Employment and Training
Act. Direct opportunities for youth also
have been expanded. The Youth Em-
ployment and Demonstration Projects
Act of 1977, which is providing job ex-
perience and training in skills to unem-
ployed youths, also was proposed by my
Administration and enacted in 1977, pro-
viding 166,000 work and training posi-
tions for unemployed youths.
Several further measures are proposed
in my 1979 budget. I have recommended
that Public Service Employment be con-
tinued at the 725,000 job level through-
out 1979, and that the number of jobs be
phased down gradually in subsequent
years as progress is made in reducing the
overall level of unemployment. I have
also recommended an expansion to $1.2
billion of the Youth Employment and
Demonstration Projects Act to provide
work opportunities and skill training for
the unemployed youth who most need
help. The Better Jobs and Income Pro-
gram that I sent to the Congress in mid-
1977 will create up to 1.4 million jobs,
supplemented by cash allowances, for
poor people who are able to work. An
initial demonstration project for this pro-
gram that will create 50,000 jobs is pro-
posed in my 1979 budget, and more jobs
will be phased in gradually once the wel-
fare reform program is enacted.
Government programs can provide val-
uable assistance to the unemployed. In
the end, however, we must turn to the
private sector for the bulk of permanent
job opportunities for the disadvantaged.
It is in private industry that most pro-
ductive jobs with opportunity for ad-
vancement are found. For this reason, I
am requesting $400 million in my 1979
budget to begin a major new initiative
for private sector hiring of the disadvan-
taged. Details of this proposal will be
submitted to the Congress shortly. I am
requesting the fullest cooperation of the
business community in this initiative and
have been assured by business leaders that
it will be forthcoming.
GREATER EMPHASIS ON PROMOTING BUSI-
NESS CAPITAL FORMATION
Over a broad expanse of years, im-
provement of the standard of living in
this Nation depends primarily on growth
in the productivity of the American work
force. During the first two decades of the
ican labor increased at an average
postwar period, the productivity of Amer-
annual
rate of about 3 percent. Over the past ten
years, however, productivity growth has
slowed markedly-to about 2 percent or
less a year.
138
