Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
My specific proposals are these:
1. Replacing the Civil Service Commis-
sion with an Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and a Merit Protection Board
Originally established to conduct Civil
Service examinations, the Civil Service
Commission has, over the years, assumed
additional and inherently conflicting re-
sponsibilities. It serves simultaneously
both as the protector of employee rights
and as the promoter of efficient personnel
management policy. It is a manager, rule-
maker, prosecutor and judge. Conse-
quently, none of these jobs are being done
as effectively as they should be.
Acting under my existing reorganiza-
tion authority, I propose to correct the
inherent conflict of interest within the
Civil Service Commission by abolishing
the Commission and replacing it with a
Merit Protection Board and Office of Per-
sonnel Management.
The Office of Personnel Management
will be the center for personnel adminis-
tration (including examination, training,
and administration of pay and benefits);
it will not have any prosecutorial or ad-
judicative powers against individuals. Its
Director will be appointed by the Presi-
dent and confirmed by the Senate. The
Director will be the government's man-
agement spokesman on Federal employee
labor relations and will coordinate Fed-
eral personnel matters, except for Presi-
dential appointments.
The Merit Protection Board will be the
adjudicatory arm of the new personnel
system. It will be headed by a bipartisan
board of three members, appointed for 7
years, serving non-renewable overlapping
terms, and removable only for cause. This
structure will guarantee independent and
impartial protection to employees. I also
propose to create a Special Counsel to the
Board, appointed by the President and
confirmed by the Senate, who will investi-
gate and prosecute political abuses and
merit system violations. This will help
safeguard the rights of Federal employees
who "blow the whistle" on violations of
laws or regulations by other employees,
including their supervisors.
In addition, these proposals will write
into law for the first time the fundamental
principles of the merit system and enu-
merate prohibited personnel practices.
2. A Senior Executive Service
A critical factor in determining whether
Federal programs succeed or fail is the
ability of the senior managers who run
them. Throughout the Executive Branch,
these 9200 top administrators carry re-
sponsibilities that are often more chal-
lenging than comparable work in private
industry. But under the Civil Service sys-
tem, they lack the incentives for first-rate
performance that managers in private in-
dustry have. The Civil Service system
treats top managers just like the 2.1 mil-
lion employees whose activities they di-
rect. They are equally insulated from the
risks of poor performance, and equally de-
prived of tangible rewards for excellence.
To help solve these problems I am pro-
posing legislation to create a Senior Exec-
utive Service affecting managers in grades
GS-16 through non-Presidentially ap-
pointed Executive Level IV or its equiva-
lent. It would allow:
-Transfer of executives among senior
positions on the basis of government
need;
-Authority for agency heads to adjust
salaries within a range set by law
with the result that top managers
would no longer receive automatic
pay increases based on longevity;
-Annual performance reviews, with
inadequate performance resulting in
removal from the Senior Executive
Service (back to GS-15) without
any right of appeal to the Merit Pro-
tection Board.
445
