Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing out responsibilities assigned in this
Order, shall be chaired by the Director
of Central Intelligence and composed of
the Vice President, the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secre-
tary of Defense, the Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, and
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
or their designees, and other senior offi-
cials, as appropriate.
1-202. Duties. The PRC shall:
(a) Establish requirements and prior-
ities for national foreign intelligence;
(b) Review the National Foreign In-
telligence Program and budget proposals
and report to the President as to whether
the resource allocations for intelligence
capabilities are responsive to the intelli-
gence requirements of the members of the
NSC.
(c) Conduct periodic reviews of na-
tional foreign intelligence products, eval-
uate the quality of the intelligence prod-
uct, develop policy guidance to ensure
quality intelligence and to meet changing
intelligence requirements; and
(d) Submit an annual report on its ac-
tivities to the NSC.
1-203. Appeals. Recommendations of
the PRC on intelligence matters may be
appealed to the President or the NSC by
any member of the PRC.
1-3. NSC Special Coordination Commit-
tee.
1-301. Membership. The NSC Special
Coordination Committee (SCC) is
chaired by the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs and its
membership includes the statutory mem-
bers of the NSC and other senior officials,
as appropriate.
1-302. Special Activities. The SCC
shall consider and submit to the President
a policy recommendation, including all
dissents, on each special activity. When
meeting for this purpose, the members of
the SCC shall include the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Defense, the At-
torney General, the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, the Assist-
ant to the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs, the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence.
1-303. Sensitive Foreign Intelligence
Collection Operations. Under standards
established by the President, proposals for
sensitive foreign intelligence collection
operations shall be reported to the Chair-
man by the Director of Central Intelli-
gence for appropriate review and ap-
proval. When meeting for the purpose of
reviewing proposals for sensitive foreign
intelligence collection operations, the
members of the SCC shall include the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of De-
fense, the Attorney General, the Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs, the Director of Central Intelligence,
and such other members designated by
the Chairman to ensure proper considera-
tion of these operations.
1-304. Counterintelligence. The SCC
shall develop policy with respect to the
conduct of counterintelligence activities.
When meeting for this purpose the mem-
bers of the SCC shall include the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of Defense,
the Attorney General, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, the
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, the Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence, and the Director of the
FBI. The SCC's counterintelligence func-
tions shall include:
(a) Developing standards and doctrine
for the counterintelligence activities of
the United States;
(b) Resolving interagency differences
concerning implementation of counter-
intelligence policy;
196
