Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 24
fault, a mass of confusing and conflicting
legislative and regulatory restrictions. It
does precisely the opposite of what we
want. It encourages consumption and dis-
courages exploration and production. It
rewards those who use the most of our
least abundant fuels.
It's time to end this folly that we've
inherited. If we are to attain the peaceful
and prosperous world we seek, we have to
meet—and beat—this serious challenge
now.
The energy bill buys us critical time
that we need to plan for the future. The
bill is before the Congress now, as you
know. Now is the time for us to act.
Here in Texas and neighboring States
and particularly, I would say, here in
Houston-is the center of the United
States petroleum industry. I come, as
President of the greatest nation in the
world, to ask you for help to do what is
best for our Nation, what's best for Texas,
and what I'm convinced is best for you.
Now, I know that no acts of Congress,
no program of our Government, no Exec-
utive order of mine as President can by
itself achieve these major goals of control-
ling inflation and the interrelated prob-
lem of meeting our future energy needs.
It will require a change from our pre-
occupation with self and a willingness to
sacrifice for the common good.
We Democrats have never been timid
nor fearful in the face of any challenge
to our Nation. We will not betray the
trust of leadership which you and I share
together. Together we can create an even
greater United States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:07 p.m. in
the Imperial Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Gov. Dolph Briscoe, Jr., of Texas, Gov. Edwin
W. Edwards of Louisiana, Mayor James Mc-
Conn of Houston, Texas Attorney General
John L. Hill, and Lt. Gov. William P. Hobby
of Texas.
Beaumont, Texas
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the
Jack Brooks Federal Building. June 24, 1978
Mayor Myers, Senator Lloyd Bentsen,
my good friend Congressman Jack Brooks,
Congressmen Corman and Charlie Wil-
tinguished guests and friends:
son, Mrs. Brooks, Jay Solomon, and dis-
The first thing I want to do is to thank
all of you and others who live in this dis-
trict for giving me an enormous victory
here when I ran for President. I thank
you. You're my friends. I'll never forget
it.
leaving the Navy to come home to Plains,
Twenty-five years ago, when I was
Georgia, to be a farmer, a young fresh-
man Congressman was leaving Beaumont
to go to Washington. In that quarter of
a century, the Ninth District has garnered
more Federal projects than ever before:
the Intracoastal Canal, the Nation's first
strategic storage facility for oil, a whole
host of Federal works projects too numer-
ous to name this morning, research grants
for your district colleges and universities,
and a wide variety of miscellaneous Fed-
eral contracts and awards.
I don't recall a single major Federal
program in Plains in the last 25 years.
[Laughter] One reason I came here was to
get Jack Brooks to help me in the future.
If he brings down to Beaumont more than
you can handle, I want Plains to be the
first spillover point for things that you
reject.
I think it's accurate to say that the si-
multaneous presence of Jack Brooks in
Washington and so many Federal projects
coming into the Ninth District was not
just a coincidence. But I have to point
out as well that it takes more than a re-
spected and an influential Member of
Congress to bring these kinds of projects
to a district. There must be a fertile
ground present among the people who live
1173
