Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
associated with
expenditures.
projected capital
capital
(2) Increased Tax Liability Ceiling.
The investment credit claimed during any
taxable year cannot generally exceed
$25,000 plus 50 percent of tax liability in
excess of that amount (with excess credits
being eligible for a 3-year carryback and
a 7-year carry-forward). My tax program
will provide a ceiling of 90 percent of tax
liability (including the first $25,000) and
will thereby increase the incentive for
those businesses with relatively high in-
vestment needs and low taxable incomes.
Developing businesses and firms suffering
from temporary business reversals will be
helped to compete more effectively with
their larger or more stable competitors.
(3) Eligibility of Structures. The in-
vestment credit now applies only to
machinery and equipment. My tax pro-
gram will extend eligibility for the credit
to utility and industrial structures, where
investments have been especially sluggish.
Investment in these structures reached
its peak over 4 years ago and is now 16
percent below that level. It is important
that we act to remedy the existing tax
bias against structures and encourage
balanced industrial expansion. In order to
ensure that this provision has no anti-
urban bias, I propose that the investment
credit be available for both new struc-
tures and the rehabilitation of existing
structures.
qualify for a full 10 percent credit even
if special 5-year amortization is claimed
under the provisions of existing law. Cur-
rently, only a 5 percent credit may be
combined with rapid amortization. This
proposal will provide significant tax relief
for industries that are forced to make
pollution control expenditures in order
to comply with environmental regula-
tions.
Revision and Simplification of Regula-
tions Under the Asset Depreciation
Range System
The asset depreciation range (ADR)
system provides substantial tax benefits
to businesses. Under ADR, generous class
lives are prescribed for categories of as-
sets, and a taxpayer can select useful lives
for depreciation purposes within a range
that extends from 20 percent below to
20 percent above the designated class life.
However, certain complexities in the
ADR regulations discourage most busi-
nesses, especially small ones, from electing
this depreciation system and impose ad-
ministrative burdens on those businesses
that do use ADR.
I recommend legislation expressly per-
mitting the Treasury Department to issue
regulations that will simplify the ADR
system. Included among the changes will
be a termination of the annual reporting
requirement.
I recommend that this provision apply Proposals Focused on Small Business
to construction costs incurred after De-
cember 31, 1977. In the case of new
structures, there will be an additional
requirement that the facility be placed
in service after that date.
(4) Liberalized Credit for Pollution
Control Facilities. I propose that pollu-
tion abatement facilities placed in service
after December 31, 1977, be allowed to
The tax reductions I recommend will
provide significant benefits for small busi-
nesses. For example, a small corporation
with annual income of $50,000 will save
$1,000 in taxes due to corporate rate re-
ductions. For that corporation, tax lia-
bility will be reduced by nearly 10 percent.
Moreover, those small businesses con-
ducted in partnership or sole proprietor-
175
