June 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion-some States, very strict environmen-
tal laws, some with no environmental laws
or lax ones. Eventually it worked up to the
point where the Federal Government, in
order to provide some uniformity, passed
federal laws.
But the first experimenters and the first
innovators were and should be the States.
And as the Federal Government observed
which States' environmental laws were
effective, which ones were not, then we
could make a much more sound judgment
here in Washington. I was a Governor
back in those days.
Another example has been no-fault au-
tomobile insurance, where States have
tried out no-fault insurance. Some provi-
sions or proposals have worked well; some
have not. Now the Federal Government is
in the posture of trying to evolve some uni-
form standards by which no-fault insur-
ance laws could be assessed.
But this is part of our Federal system
that gives us a way for 1 State out of
50 to try a new idea to see how well it
works. And I think the whole Nation, in-
cluding myself and the Congress, will be
watching very closely in the next few
months to see how California deals with
it.
As you know, California has a fairly
large State budget surplus, which was one
of the causes of criticism and concern by
the California people-that you would
collect more taxes than you needed and
hold those taxes in a reserve fund. That
created some disturbance. But once that
$4, $5 billion is spent, then a 50-
percent reduction in property taxes is
going to be a very difficult reduction to ac-
commodate, because in California, for in-
stance, a substantial part of the welfare
costs are paid for by local property taxes.
This is not the case in Georgia; we elimi-
nated those while I was there as
Governor.
But I think that this is the kind of thing
that's going to work a very great challenge
to Governor Brown, who's acting, I think,
in a very responsible way now, and also to
the people in California, because the ones
who suffer are the poor and the depend-
ent. The ones who celebrate and who en-
joy reduction in property taxes are those
who are affluent enough to be property
owners. And, of course, that's not just rich
people, that's average folks that have been
able to buy a home or buy equity in a
home.
It's an unpredictable sort of thing, and
I think everyone in the country has gotten
the message. I certainly welcome this kind
of experimentation in our country.
ETHICS IN GOVERNMENT
Q. President Carter, I'm Ron De Fatta,
KNOE Radio, Monroe, Louisiana. I
have a question pertaining to the Korean
influence buying scandal. What measures
are you taking to ensure that this type of
thing will not happen during your admin-
istration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
this is something that I don't think ever
touched the executive branch of Govern-
ment, so far as I've heard it described. It
primarily was an allegation of lobbying
efforts within the Congress. We have
done everything we could to reveal the
facts and also to provide testimony from
Mr. Park, who was here and who has
been very forthcoming in giving informa-
tion about what did occur.
He was willing to be examined and
cross-examined; he was willing to do this
examination with a lie detector in place.
As far as we can tell, his testimony was
complete and accurate. And all this in-
formation has been turned over to the
Justice Department, who derived it, and
Tongsun Park, former Korean lobbyist.
1078
