May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Georgia, I've seen some very serious abuses
in the Soil and Water Conservation Serv-
ice. I understand that in the Midwest
and the West, the same conditions don't
prevail.
In Georgia, for instance, the abuses
that I tried to correct, I think success-
fully while I was in office, was the unwar-
ranted draining of freshwater wetland
areas, which is highly costly, utilizes chan-
nelization, destroys the environmental
protection for wildlife and game. I won't
outline all the advantages there, but pri-
marily the result is to reward financially
the landowners who bought the prop-
erty, knowing that it was a wetland and
who want to have it changed into pro-
ductive farmland at government expense
when we have an adequate supply of
farmland in Georgia.
Another problem in some of our moun-
tain regions was in the design of dam
structures in some of our smaller moun-
tain streams, where the type of discharge
raised the temperature of those mountain
streams 10 to 15 degrees sometimes and
therefore destroyed all the wildlife below
the dam which had formerly been in-
digenous to that area.
So, I think the establishment of a good
water policy will help to resolve those
questions. But specifics on how many per-
sons would be discharged, I'm not familiar
with that at all and don't know of any
plans to do that.
Let me say, again, that I appreciate
you being here. And I would like, if you
don't mind, for you to come by and let
me have a photograph made with each
one of you. It would be a pleasure for
me.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:10 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on May 20.
White House Promenade
Remarks at the Reception for Members of
Congress and Their Families. May 20, 1978
While you're getting settled, let me say
the napkins and tablecloths were designed
by Calvin Klein, and they are yours to
take with you. We want you to remember
this evening, and we'll remember it, too.
First of all, let me say that for Rosalynn
and for Amy and for me, this is a wonder-
ful occasion. We have the advantage as a
family, along with Chip and Caron and
Jeffrey and Annette and James, to live
very close to where I work, which is over
here in the Oval Office.
Many Members of Congress, however,
don't have that easy a time being close to
your families. And we thought it would
be a very appropriate thing to have a
family evening. God gave us beautiful
weather and an almost full Moon that's
coming up at the right time, and we are
very delighted to have you here.
I might say that the evening has already
been memorable because of the weather
and the companionship. But the most ex-
citing part of it is still to come.
A man who has played more good
music for more Americans than anyone
who's ever lived is here to conduct the
finest music for us tonight. The Marine
Band and representatives of the bands of
the Army and the Air Force are being
conducted by him.
This wonderful maestro came to our
country from Russia in 1922. He's fallen
in love with the United States and vice
versa. He has sold more than 52 million
records, which means that everybody in
our country only has to share one of his
records with three other people. And as
you know, most of the time when Andre
Kostelanetz starts to play, more than four
people gather around to listen to the
music.
944
