Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
by speaking the truth as we see it and by
providing an admirable example of what
democracy can mean and what it can
accomplish.
The danger of war threatens everyone,
and the United States is trying to help
reduce that danger-in the SALT nego-
tiations with the Soviet Union, in talks
aimed at a comprehensive ban of the
testing of all nuclear explosives any-
where on Earth, and in our own policy of
restraint on conventional arms transfers.
We are also working hard to restrict the
proliferation of nuclear explosives.
We are seeking to help the process of
peace in Africa and the Middle East. And
we are taking steps to forestall, along with
the Soviets, great power rivalry and the
escalation of military presence in your own
Indian Ocean.
India is pledged to peaceful coopera-
tion with your neighbors, and India is an
important part of almost any United Na-
tions peacekeeping force. India is a pres-
ent and frequent member of the Security
Council and has been in the forefront of
campaigns against colonialism and against
apartheid.
The motto of my country is "In God We
Trust;" India's is Satyameva Jayte-
"Truth Alone Prevails." I believe that
such is the commonality of our fundamen-
tal values that your motto could be ours,
and perhaps our motto could also be
yours.
Our nations share the goals of peace in
the world and human development in our
own societies. And we share, as well, the
conviction that the means that we employ
to reach these goals must be as much in
keeping with the principles of freedom
and human dignity and social justice as
are the goals themselves.
This affinity of belief is as strong a tie
as there can be between any two nations
on Earth. The values that Americans and
Indians share have deeply affected my
own life. I come to you as a national
leader, yes, in the hope that my visit will
mark a new and a higher stage in the
steadily improving relations between our
two countries.
But in a more personal sense-a sense
that is very close to my own heart-I
come also as a pilgrim.
This morning I had the honor of laying
a wreath on the memorial to Mahatma
Gandhi. In that sacred place, so simple
and so serene, I recalled anew the ways in
which Gandhi's teachings have touched
the lives of so many millions of people in
my own country.
When I was growing up on a farm in
the State of Georgia, in the heart of the
Southern United States, an invisible wall
of racial segregation stood between me
and my black classmates, schoolmates,
playmates, when we were old enough to
know what segregation was. But it seemed
then as if that wall between us would exist
forever.
But it did not stand forever. It crum-
bled and fell. And though the rubble has
not yet been completely removed, it no
longer separates us from one another,
blighting the lives of those on both sides
of it.
Among the many who marched and
suffered and bore witness against the evil
of racial prejudice, the greatest was Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. He was a son of
Georgia and a spiritual son of Mahatma
Gandhi.
The most important influence in the
life and work of Dr. King, apart from his
own religious faith, was the life and work
of Gandhi. Martin Luther King took
Gandhi's concepts of nonviolence and
truth-force and put them to work in the
American South.
Like Gandhi, King believed that truth
and love are the strongest forces in the
universe. Like Gandhi, he knew that or-
dinary people, armed only with courage
10
