Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 6
Your leadership in the developing na-
tions of the world is because of the demo-
cratic principles on which your govern-
ment is founded and in which your people
believe, your complete commitment to
preserving and enhancing basic human
rights. And we are very proud to share
these noble ideals with people for whom
we care so deeply.
Thank you very much.
by longstanding tradition and laws. In
other areas of the country, flooding is
more of a problem than drought. And in
many areas, plentiful water resources
have been offering opportunities for hy-
droelectric power and for navigation.
Urban areas throughout the country face
the need for rehabilitation of their drink-
ing water systems. And everywhere, water
is fundamental to environmental quality.
This policy recognizes the substantial
benefits that water development has pro-
vided to our country. But our Federal
water resource programs are now plagued
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:20 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Joaquin
Gamboa Pascoe, majority leader of the Mex-
ican Senate, and Enrique Alvarez del Cas-
tillo, president of the Great Commission in by inefficiencies and environmental prob-
the Mexican Chamber of Deputies.
Federal Water Policy
Remarks Announcing the Administration's
Policy. June 6, 1978
Last year, I asked Secretary Cecil An-
drus to lead an interagency review of Fed-
eral water policy. And today, I'm sending
to Congress a water policy message de-
signed to achieve four basic objectives:
one, improved planning and efficient
management of Federal water policy pro-
grams, which will permit the completion
of necessary water projects that are cost-
effective, safe, and environmentally
sound; two, a new national emphasis on
water conservation; three, enhanced Fed-
eral-State cooperation in water policy and
in planning; and four, increased attention
to environmental quality. We will achieve
these objectives without imposing any new
Federal regulatory program for water
management.
This policy recognizes that across the
Nation there is remarkable diversity in
the role that water plays. In most of the
West, water is scarce and must be man-
aged very carefully. Its use is governed
lems. These initiatives are specifically ad-
dressed to the four objectives of water
policy.
First, to improve Federal water re-
source programs, I propose the use of new
criteria and uniform procedures for the
computation of project costs and benefits
with an expedited interagency review to
assure that projects are assessed rapidly
and consistently, and cost-sharing to give
States a more meaningful role in water
project designs and decisions, yet to pro-
tect small States from undue financial
burdens. Second, to establish water con-
servation as a new national priority, I'm
directing all Federal agencies to incor-
porate water conservation requirements in
all applicable programs, and proposing
legislation to allow States the option of
charging more for municipal and indus-
trial water supplies from Federal reser-
voirs to encourage conservation, provided
that the additional revenue is returned to
the municipality.
Third, to enhance Federal-State co-
operation, I'm proposing grant programs
totaling $50 million to help States plan
for their water needs and to implement
water conservation programs, and creat-
ing a task force with State, local, and Fed-
eral officials to examine water-related
1043
