May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
been criticized by Latino groups on sev-
eral points. One of the main criticisms,
however, is that the immigration package
is a series of palliatives which will do little
to attack the fundamental causes of that
illegal immigration, that is, underdevel-
opment in these so-called sending coun-
tries, particularly in Latin America.
Now, the question is, why does your im-
migration package say so little about eco-
nomic development in Mexico and the
rest of Latin America? And as a followup
to that, what specifically will you be do-
ing in the future to correct the apparent
or at least perceived shortcomings?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer your ques-
tion very briefly, the Judiciary Commit-
tees, which are responsible for legislation
concerning undocumented workers, are
not charged with economic development
in a foreign country. The legislation spe-
cifically is not related to economic de-
velopment, so you can't put it in the same
legislative proposal. But we are working
very hard with the Mexicans- for in-
stance, myself with López Portillo; we've
been together a couple of times. My wife
has been down there to spend time with
López Portillo. Secretary Vance has just
recently returned; Mike Blumenthal has
just come back from Mexico City.
We've had delegations formed, as a
result of my meetings with López Portillo
around this table, representing our De-
partment of Commerce, our Treasury De-
partment, Agriculture Department, State
Department, to work with his Ministers
on enhancing the economic prospects in
Mexico for the future. We've been very
supportive of Mexico, in addition, in their
need for developing products to export.
Petroleum products is a major example;
agricultural products is another.
We've tried to reduce the obstacles at
the borders for the free trade that ought
to exist between our countries that would
help economically. We've also tried to
help Mexico qualify for and we've been
supportive of Mexico's needs for long-
range loans from the World Bank and the
Regional Banks, the IMF.
So, we're very much aware that the
permanent solution, or at least partial
solution to the undocumented workers'
problem is better economic conditions in
Mexico. The reason that we haven't com-
bined that facet in the undocumented
workers legislation is that that goes to
the Judiciary Committee, which has no
responsibility for economic development.
CUBAN INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, appealing to the
principle of open policy in your admin-
istration, what options do we have to
stop this outrageous escalation of Com-
munist troops in Africa? Also, what op-
tions do we have to terminate this type
of situation emanating from Communist
Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, I
have let it be clear that we want better
relationships with Cuba. But the unneces-
sary and excessive use of military force
by Castro all over the African continent,
to some degree, lately, in the Middle East,
like in South Yemen, has indicated to me
that he has not abandoned the interest
that Cuba has to subvert other (govern-
ment)¹ people through military means.
As you know, he was unsuccessful in
doing so in South America, although he
made a strong effort there and in Central
America. And now I think he's moved
his emphasis to Africa.
There is no possibility that we would
see any substantial, further improvement
in our relationship with Cuba as long as
he's committed to this military intrusion
policy in the internal affairs of African
people.
There's no doubt in my mind that
1 Printed in the transcript.
904
