Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
treatment has doubled, has been doubling
every 5 years, an unbelievable, unwar-
ranted increase in health care costs. We
now spend about $6 or $700-I'm not
sure of the exact figure-for every man,
woman, and child in this country for
health care, and we don't nearly have the
best health care in the world.
So, I think that a much more effective
program can be evolved than the one
now. A step in the right direction was
Medicaid and Medicare. We've now got
health care responsibilities scattered all
over the Federal Government. I think to
bring that together and have one tight,
good administration would be better.
I personally want to keep open the
option of the insurance portion being ad-
ministered by private insurance com-
panies. I don't want to see the Govern-
ment take over this full responsibility.
And I'm also committed to the proposi-
tion that individual American citizens
would continue to have the right to choose
their own family physician. I don't want
the Federal Government telling a pa-
tient you have to go to that particular
physician to get your care.
Another aspect that we are trying to
move on is to cut down the cost of drugs
and to cut down the cost of all kinds of
treatment mechanisms that are very, very
expensive. Generic drugs sometimes cost
only one-fifth as much as brand-name
drugs that are identical in composition,
taste, and everything else, including
quality.
So, you can see that we've got a very
serious problem in our country on health
care. But within the bounds that I've just
described to you very briefly, I believe
that we can evolve over a period of years
to be implemented very slowly but very
cautiously a comprehensive health care
program that the American people would
see is not any more costly, is much more
effective, and would improve substantially
the health of the American people.
Now, where exactly to start the first
year, we've not yet decided. It might be
on health care for very young people, it
might be health care in the case of cata-
strophic illnesses,
strophic illnesses, where it's far beyond
the capability financially of a family. But
we'll feel our way very cautiously, but I
think the American people are ready for
the kind of changes that I've described
to you.
OIL SURPLUSES
Q. Mr. President, I'm John Bjork.
Reportedly we have an oil glut here on
the west coast now, supposedly because
of Alaskan oil. Would you support, per-
haps on a temporary basis, trading Alas-
kan oil to Japan and redistributing Mid-
dle East oil that would be going to Japan
to other parts of our country?
THE PRESIDENT. Since the Alaskan oil
began to come down to the mainland,
about 1.2 million barrels a day, we've got
a surplus of oil on the west coast. Five
and a half million to maybe-550,000 to
maybe 700,000 barrels of oil extra come
into our country daily on the west coast
that we are not presently using.
This situation is aggravated by the fact
that most of the oil that is produced in
California has a high sulfur content
called sour oil and is a very low viscosity
or thick oil. And the refineries in Cali-
fornia for instance are not designed to use
the California oil.
What to do about the subject is a ques-
tion that we've not adequately resolved.
One proposal is that there be placed into
use an existing pipeline owned by the
Sohio Company that presently brings nat-
ural gas from Texas, Louisiana fields in-
to California-to change that pipeline
into one that can carry oil from the south-
877
