Jan. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
one of hundreds of U.S. attorneys in the
country, and I was not familiar with the
case until it became highly publicized.
The Attorney General is handling the in-
vestigation of the replacement for Mr.
Marston. I think the focusing of attention
on this case will certainly doubly inspire
him to make a selection that will be ad-
mirable and a credit to him and to me,
and I've not interfered in it at all.
Before I first heard about Mr. Marston,
the Attorney General had already decided
to replace him. We have encouraged the
Members of Congress, Democratic Mem-
bers of Congress, not to be involved in
trying to influence the Attorney General
about who should be the new U.S. at-
torney there.
I'd be glad to answer a followup
question.
Q. Is it the Attorney General's feeling,
sir, that he has not done a good job?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't that
say
Mr. Marston has or has not done a good
job. He was appointed at the last minute
under the previous administration. He
was not a practicing attorney, had never
had any prosecuting experience. And the
only criticism that I've heard about him
was that he had a very heavy commitment
to calling press conferences and so forth.
when he obtained evidence or when a
grand jury took action in an indictment. I
think this is not unique in the country.
I've not discussed the case with the At-
torney General and asked him specifically
what was wrong with Marston. I don't
know who he will recommend to me for
the replacement. But I can assure you
that when the replacement is announced,
that there will be the emphasis on the
quality of the replacement, his qualifica-
tions compared to the incumbent. And I
have absolute confidence that the Attor-
ney General will do a good job in that
respect.
FUEL PRICES
Q. Could I have a followup on energy?
You have said that you want a fair
bill from Congress.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do.
energy
Q. And you've indicated, repeated to-
day again, a warning about funneling un-
due amounts of money from the pockets
of the consumers to the oil companies. Yet
your Energy Department has told some
northeastern Congressmen that it will no
longer continue weekly monitoring of
home heating oil prices, that it will not
monitor fuel prices at the refinery gates,
and that if the prices to consumers do go
up unduly this winter, they'll take action
next winter. Now, how does that protect
the consumers against a ripoff?
THE PRESIDENT. If what you say is true,
then I don't see that it does protect the
consumers adequately. I'm not familiar
with that statement, but I will find out an
answer for you and let you know the
answer.1
On the following day, the White House
issued the following announcement:
The President said during his press confer-
ence that he would look into a question con-
cerning monitoring of home heating oil prices
by the Energy Department.
In July 1976, price controls on home heat-
ing oil and diesel fuel were lifted. A one-
season price monitoring system was instituted
by the Ford administration for the 1976-1977
winter season to ease the transition to the free
market.
That monitoring system expired, and work
has been underway on a new system for some
time. In accordance with Federal rulemaking
procedures, a proposed regulation outlining the
new system was published in September. Public
hearings were held, and the final regulation
establishing the new system is expected to be
signed this week.
In the meantime, the Department has con-
tinued to monitor home heating oil prices
through the Energy Information Administra-
tion. No significant increases in home heating
oil prices have been detected in this heating
season.
58
