Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
and I quote from him: "These unhappy
times call for the building of plans, from
the bottom up, and not from the top
down, that put their faith once more in
the forgotten man at the bottom of the
economic pyramid."
Now, compare that with the Republi-
can Party. Its answer to just about every
serious question and problem in this coun-
try has been one word "no." Before I
got elected with your help, the Republi-
can administration even said no to putting
people back to work. But we Democrats
are saying yes to better education, yes to
decent health care, yes to a real effort to
stop inflation with mutual sacrifice, yes to
tax reduction and tax reform, yes to solv-
ing our energy crisis, yes to reorganization
and efficiency in government, and yes
human rights in our own country and
throughout the world.
Well, in 1976, because of these differ-
ences, the Nation said no to the Repub-
licans, and we will tell them, the Re-
publicans, the same thing again in No-
vember, in Cook County, in Illinois, and
in every other State in the Nation.
With the help of Adlai Stevenson,
Danny Rostenkowski, and many others,
all the Illinois Democratic Delegation,
we've already begun to tackle our most
serious problems, some of them almost
insoluble, some of them long ignored be-
cause they are politically difficult. They
are not popular, but we've had success
already.
We've added 5.5 million net new jobs
to our economy since January of last
year.
This is a record that's never before been
equaled in the history of our country, and
we are still expanding jobs for Ameri-
cans.
Last month alone, we created more
than a half million more jobs, and we are
making sure, as the mayor pointed out,
that Cook County gets its fair share of
those jobs. And the reason for it is be-
cause you are willing to do your part.
The mayor was very gracious in say-
ing that we were financing from Wash-
ington Chicago's plan for development.
As a matter of fact, we committed yester-
day to provide $7 million-later on this
year, perhaps $12 million more. But
when Juanita Kreps, the Secretary of
Commerce, came to talk to Mayor Bi-
landic and she said, "What are you going
to do? What are your local lending in-
stitutions going to do to finance this pro-
gram?" he said, "Our banks will put up
$250 million." And she looked quizzical,
so he presented it to her in writing.
And that sort of partnership between
the Federal, State, and local government,
Democrats working together with private
industry, private labor, will be responsible
over the next 3 years for an additional
17,000 industrial jobs.
We are also facing up to inflation, the
most difficult single domestic issue that
I have on my shoulder and that you have
on your shoulder. We are not addressing
inflation by keeping people out of work.
We are not imposing mandatory price
and wage controls. But by a voluntary
partnership to pull down the wage-price
spiral, we've frozen salaries for Federal
executives to make sure that the Govern-
ment sets an example of restraint.
We are bringing the huge Federal
bureaucracy under control. We are re-
organizing it. We are cutting redtape. We
are eliminating useless regulations.
In 1 day OSHA eliminated 1,100 regu-
lations, a bright day. We've even begun
to write the necessary regulations in
English for a change that farmers and our
kinfolks from Plains, Georgia, can un-
derstand. And I've even asked the
authors of the regulations now to sign
them, and I hope they will be proud of
what they produce.
We are close to a national energy plan
that our country has needed for decades,
a goal for which Adlai Stevenson and
your whole congressional delegation have
985
