Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 25
zens by issuing regulations under Section
504 of the Rehabilitation Act which re-
quire recipients of federal financial as-
sistance to improve the accessibility of
their programs to the disabled. We have
also proposed a loan fund to assist in-
stitutions to pay for physical alterations
when needed.
Many of the barriers that block peo-
ple from opportunity and fulfillment are
not subject to Federal regulation. Their
elimination will require awareness and
concern on the part of business and in-
dustry, state and local governments and
organizations of all sorts, as well as in-
dividuals, in order that our society may
provide access for full participation to all
our people.
To encourage public awareness of the
problems of such barriers, the Ninety-fifth
Congress has adopted a joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 578) requesting the President
to issue a proclamation designating the
third week in May of 1978 and of 1979 as
National Architectural Barrier Awareness
Week and calling for its appropriate ob-
servance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the third week of
May, 1978 as National Architectural Bar-
rier Awareness Week and ask all Ameri-
cans to do all that lies within their power
to remove these unnecessary barriers and
to eliminate any lingering social and
psychological stigma surrounding dis-
abilities. Together we can make access a
reality for all Americans.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-eight, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:14 p.m., April 25, 1978]
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 25, 1978
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
THE PRESIDENT. Before I became Presi-
dent I realized and was warned that deal-
ing with the Federal bureaucracy would
be one of the worst problems I would have
to face. It's been even worse than I had
anticipated. Of all the steps that we can
take to make government more efficient
and effective, reforming the civil service
system is the most important of all.
The civil service reform proposals
which I submitted last month will re-
turn the civil service to some system of
reward and incentive for the tens of thou-
sands of superb public servants who want
to do a good job for the American people.
This will also give managers a chance to
manage. It will reward excellence, good
service, dedication, and will protect em-
ployees' vital and legitimate rights.
It will also expand the protection
against political abuse that employees
need in order to do their jobs well and will
make our civil service one of the most de-
pendable and one of the most effective
and honest in the whole world.
Nearly everyone in our country will
benefit from the civil service reform pro-
posals. For those in private business, it
will mean faster government action, less
intrusion in the private sector of our econ-
omy. For taxpayers, it will mean that we
get more for the money that we pay. For
those who depend on government for
help, it will mean better services to them,
quicker, more effective.
And most of all, for the civil service
employees, for the Government em-
ployees, it will mean that they can do
their jobs better and more effective. They
only have one life to live, and sometimes
775
