Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 22
their elected leaders the means to pro-
tect the future of the Appalachian Trail.
The Appalachian Trail was conceived
more than 50 years ago by Benton Mac-
Kaye, an eminent conservationist. By the
time of World War II, a massive volun-
teer effort by concerned citizens had
made the trail a reality. It now extends
over 2,000 miles through 14 States from
Maine to Georgia, and volunteer effort is
still the primary means by which it is
maintained.
Although much has been done to pro-
tect the Appalachian Trail over the years,
the Congress and my administration rec-
ognized that more needed to be done.
The result was this bill, to which Rep-
resentatives Byron, Burton, and Sebelius,
Senators Abourezk, Durkin, and Mathias,
Secretary Andrus and Assistant Secre-
tary Herbst made especially significant
contributions.
The trail runs through national parks
and forests, but it also runs through more
than 650 miles of private land. H.R. 8803
provides increased authority and funding
for the Secretary of the Interior to ac-
quire lands to protect parts of the trail
threatened by development and to re-
locate portions of the trail along its orig-
inal route. Just as importantly, the bill
requires the Secretary of the Interior-
after consultation with the Advisory
Council for the Appalachian National
Scenic Trail, the Governors of the af-
fected States, and the Appalachian Trail
Conference (a coalition of citizens
groups) to develop and submit to the
Congress by 1980 a comprehensive plan
for land acquisition and for the manage-
ment, development, and use of the Ap-
palachian Trail.
The enactment of this bill into law
means that the Federal Government can
now work more effectively with the States
and citizens to provide the protection
necessary to preserve and ultimately
enhance this important part of our
American heritage.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8803 is Public Law
95-248, approved March 21.
United States Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 22, 1978
One year ago, in my inaugural address,
I pledged "perseverance and wisdom in
our efforts to limit the world's armaments
to those necessary for each nation's own
domestic safety." The report which I am
transmitting is an account of the actions
taken in 1977 by the U.S. Arms Control
and Disarmament Agency towards the
fulfillment of that pledge.
The Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency is the focal point of my Admin-
istration's efforts to reach arms control
agreements through negotiations and to
develop policies which will lead to re-
duced worldwide reliance on weaponry.
This central role was legislated by the
Congress seventeen years ago, and it is
entirely in keeping with my concept of
how these objectives should be pursued.
The arms control policy and goals set
forth in this report reflect my own com-
mitment to the achievement of these im-
portant objectives. In the nuclear age,
when war could bring catastrophic con-
sequences, our national security policy
must include efforts to control arms, as
well as to provide for our military defense.
The two are complementary activities,
both necessary to achieve our overall ob-
jectives-peace and security for this Na-
tion and the world.
When necessary, we will maintain our
security and protect our interests by
549
