May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I need Jennings Randolph in Washing-
ton to help me to serve our people, those
who live here and those who live around
the country. This is not going to be an
easy election year. It will not be an
easy campaign for Jennings Randolph.
And I know that you've sacrificed coming
here, contributing to his campaign finan-
cially. And I would hate for any one of
you to go away thinking that you've done
all that he or I expect from you.
When you get back home, think about
the prospects for victory in your family, in
your block, in your rural neighborhood,
in your town, and say, "What can I do,
myself, to organize an effective campaign
with me as the campaign manager?"
Don't wait for anyone from Jennings' or-
ganization to call you. Just start on your
own. Ask the people in your church, in
your Lions Club, who work with you in
a factory, who mine coal with you, who
have respect for you, who may not be very
interested in politics, to join in helping to
help West Virginia and to help the
United States by keeping there in the
Senate a great leader who has genuinely
earned the admiration and appreciation
of our country—my good, personal friend,
Jennings Randolph, your Senator now
and years to come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in
the West Virginia Room at the Charleston
Civic Center.
Charleston, West Virginia
Remarks Announcing the Establishment of
the President's Commission on the Coal
Industry. May 26, 1978
My good friend Senator Jennings Ran-
dolph, Governor and Mrs. Jay Rocke-
feller, Congressman Slack, Mayor and
Mrs. Hutchinson, Ed Wiles, Governor
Bob Scott, and President Arnold Miller,
other friends of mine who are interested
in the present circumstances and the
future of West Virginia:
I started my day in Du Page County, a
suburb of Chicago, and I flew down to
Springfield to have several meetings, one
of which was to address the legislature of
the State of Illinois. I talked to them
about the proper relationship between
government and people and where the
strengths lie and the need for trust and
an appreciation of the challenges of pub-
lic service in a rapidly changing, modern
technological world.
I'm deeply concerned about your State
and deeply hopeful that this meeting
today will lead to that bright future in
the distance which Jennings Randolph
has so eloquently described.
It's great to be here and to see just
where Superblock 1 is going to be. It's my
second visit. I wish I'd been here last
night to hear Willie Nelson play. He's
one of my favorite musicians. We've in-
vited him to come and play at the White
House in September, when we're having
the stock car race drivers as our guests.
They will be personal guests of mine and
Rosalynn. The taxpayers won't pay for
that, of course. [Laughter]
I think it's important for someone in
my position, as is greatly illustrated by
these great men behind me, to stay in
close touch with the thinking and the
hopes and dreams and fears and concerns
of American people who have to work
for a living and who share with us the
prospect for the future of our country.
I'm glad that the Economic Develop-
ment Administration was able to an-
nounce a $5 million grant this week for
this convention center complex, which I
Proposed $41 million addition to the
Charleston Civic Center.
1002
