May 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Improving Government
Regulations
Statement by the President. May 31, 1978
On March 23 I signed Executive Order
12044, creating a program to reform the
regulatory process. We have now passed
the first milestone in this effort.
Each executive agency that issues regu-
lations has just published new procedures
in the FEDERAL REGISTER, as well as lists
of existing regulations proposed for "sun-
set" reviews.
These new procedures require that fu-
ture regulations be written in plain Eng-
lish and be signed by the officials who
issue them—and that they minimize the
burden on the public.
Public comment on the new procedures
and lists is due by late July, so that they
can be revised in time to go into effect this
fall.
I urge the public to give us its advice
on whether the new procedures will do
the job and whether we have selected the
right targets for “sunset” review. We need
public participation to make regulatory
reform work.
NOTE: For a list indicating the dates of publica-
tion of agency proposals implementing Execu-
tive Order 12044, see page 24212 of the FED-
ERAL REGISTER of June 2, 1978.
North Atlantic Alliance Summit
Remarks Following the Conclusion of the
Final Session. May 31, 1978
I would like to say as the leader of the
host government that it's been a gratifying
experience to us to have the meeting of
the NATO Alliance countries here in
Washington. We've spent 2 days in what
the more experienced leaders have said is
the most comprehensive and candid and
productive discussion of any NATO con-
ference to date.
The most vivid impression that I have
is one of a well-acknowledged common
purpose. The Alliance is obviously one of
unity. It's one of complete dedication, and
it is an alliance also that recognizes that
30 years of peace have been derived
among 15 or so countries because we are
mutually strong and mutually committed
in a partnership based on common beliefs
and ideals, common heritage, a common
commitment to democracy, to freedom,
and to the rule of law.
In addition to the maintenance of
strength for common defense, we've also
reconfirmed the fact that we want to have
countries, our potential adversaries, and
general peace with the Warsaw Pact
that there is no incompatibility between
the Special Session on Disarmament in
New York, its purposes, and the purposes
of the North Atlantic Alliance.
We believe that the most fruitful step
toward general disarmament is an ac-
knowledged strength among the NATO
Allies. We considered three basic proposi-
tions. One was cooperation in the devel-
opment and production of weapons,
which can lead to a more balanced re-
sponsibility for this very important pur-
pose, and also result in standardization of
weapon components and systems, a much
higher level of defense capability for a
given expenditure of public funds.
Secondly, we completed the analysis
of a year-long study of East-West rela-
tionships, political, economic, and mili-
tary, which was an enlightening experi-
ence in its preparation, and I think it
cemented a common understanding of
the present and possible future interrela-
tionships between the Warsaw Pact coun-
tries, their friends and other allies, and
1024
