Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
trolled by the people that gives us a good
basis for future growth and achievement.
I'm thankful for what you've done al-
ready, but I'm even more thankful for
what you can do and will do in the
future.
Thank you for letting me be part of
this ceremony.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House to representa-
tives from 24 State electric cooperatives.
Reception For Black Business
Executives
Remarks at the White House Reception.
June 14, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It is good to see you.
Please be seated.
I notice in the New York Times this
morning that this is the first time this
group has been recognized in the White
House by the President. It is not nearly
so much an honor for you to come here as
it is for me to have you here. I deeply
appreciate all the help that many of you
have given me in the past, in my cam-
paign to become President, and since
I've been in this very important office.
Many of you have been here to the
White House to counsel with me and
others in shaping the policies of our
country. But I noticed in the analysis of
your achievements the substantial in-
come that you all have derived from your
own efforts. And I was invited by Jessie
Hill and Johnny Johnston and Nat Gold-
stein and Herman Russell and a few
others to bring this group in here to ask
you to help me balance the Federal
budget by [laughter]—making a
tribution to our Nation. And I'm sure
you won't object. If you won't do it
voluntarily, we'll collect through the In-
ternal Revenue Service. [Laughter]
I think it's accurate to say that this
meeting is one that could not possibly
have been successful 10, 15 years ago.
The dynamism of each one of you in-
dividually, your competence, your ambi-
tion, the recognition and esteem with
which you are held by your customers
and your clients, is an achievement in
itself. And it's something of which I'm
very proud as a leader of our Nation.
I think it's also accurate to say that al-
though many of your businesses evolved
primarily within the black community,
that the influence has been extensive
throughout the entire structure of the
American economy. I notice that almost
every one of your businesses is growing
rapidly, and the competition is increasing
to be recognized as one of the top 100.
It's very good that the Black Enterprise
publication would provide this opportu-
nity for the rest of the Nation to recog-
nize your achievement.
It does me good to stand here and be
honored by your presence. And I think
it's a real inspiration to Americans of all
kinds, white or black, those who speak
English fluently, those who perhaps speak
Spanish, or those whose families have
been here for generations, those whose
families have just come, to recognize that
in a society like our own, based on free
enterprise, freedom, and the slow but
rapidly increasing removal of discrimina-
tion, that there is an upward mobility
possible if one has confidence in the
American dream, confidence in oneself,
and a respect for those with whom one
has to deal.
I've tried to do what I could in a
limited way, as President, to recognize
the need to overcome past discrimina-
tions, the evidence of which still prevails
throughout our country. We set a goal,
for instance, to have at the end of last
year a deposit of $100 million in black-
1103
