Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 7
ington, because it's such a center for diplo-
matic visits. But I thought it was a very
good expression of friendship.
And as I said earlier, I thought the
community of memories, of history ex-
pressed on the beach near Omaha yester-
day was something that you can't antic-
ipate and you can't contrive. I thought
it was really genuine. Well, those are a
couple of things that impressed me.
lot of jobs for American people, that won't
violate at all our nonproliferation policies.
So, there were some things that we
hadn't really laid down on the agenda
ahead of time that occurred. But it's hard
for me to be objective about it.
Q. What about any kind of negative
aspects? Were you surprised by anything
that didn't go as well as you thought it
might have?
Rosalynn's and Dr. Brzezinski's visit
with Cardinal Wyszynski showed that
there's a pluralism in the Polish society anything. But perhaps you can.
that is not frequently acknowledged in an
eastern European country.
THE PRESIDENT. No. I can't think of
It's obvious that as far as the influence
on the minds and hearts and future of
the Polish people that there's a sharing
between a great religious leader and the
political leader.
And privately they expressed admira-
tion for each other. And I think this is
a good, kind of a pleasant surprise to know
more about the nations behind the Iron
Curtain.
I think the Curtain is being parted. I
think it's a good step forward. We con-
summated an additional proper action
today by returning the crown to Hungary.ยน
We're not trying to drive a wedge be-
tween those Warsaw Pact nations and the
Soviet Union. But we are trying to get
them to look to us as friends who want
peace, who recognize the horrible suffer-
ing that they've experienced, and who
are building a basis for friendship and
trade and mutual exchange.
We signed a nuclear agreement with
the Iranians that will provide billions of
dollars of trade for American industry, a
ยน The Crown of St. Stephen and other Hun-
garian coronation regalia were returned to the
Hungarian people by a delegation headed by
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance at a cere-
mony in Budapest on January 6.
VISIT TO POLAND
Q. As a follow on your discussions about
Poland, I have two questions: One is
why didn't you yourself see Cardinal
Wyszynski, and did you make any efforts
to suggest to Mr. Gierek that he should
allow his dissident journalists into your
press conference?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We requested
that the press conference be open ahead
of time. That's his country. He made that
decision. And I made the decision to
comment on it publicly. And he made the
decision, I presume, for my comment to
be published very freely in the Polish
newspapers and also on the television that
evening.
We extended an invitation to Cardinal
Wyszynski to come and meet with me.
But he said it was not proper for a cardi-
nal to come to pay his respects to me. So,
we thought it was a good solution there,
at the last moment I might say, for Ros-
alynn to accompany Dr. Brzezinski, who
had planned to see Cardinal Wysznyski all
the time.
I wrote him a private message. He
wrote me a little note, and it was a mu-
tually beneficial thing. But I think the
contact with him through Zbig and Ros-
alynn was adequate.
45
