Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 29
Members of Congress this year will do
better in the West than I did—[laugh-
ter]-in the Presidential race, because as
you pointed out, I carried very few States
in the West. I came very close in a few.
But I think the Democrats will have a
good success this year. They've got an
excellent record when it's analyzed
carefully.
I think when the Congress adjourns
late this summer, there will be a much
more careful and factual analysis of what
has been accomplished and what has not
been accomplished. So the record is going
to be good. I think there's a minimal
amount of coattail riding these days, not
just because of me but also my immedi-
ate predecessors.
The new classes in Congress, the 94th
and 95th Congresses, are highly independ-
ent. They ran their campaigns basically
the same way I did, one priding one-
self in not being a part of the establish-
ment, not being dominated by the polit-
ical leaders, being tied directly to constit-
uents, or being independent in attitude
and in the legislative process. So, I think
there's a much more close welding now of
Members of Congress, particularly the
newer classes, to their own constituents
than there has been in the past, histori-
cally, and a much less interrelationship
between individual Members of Congress
and the popularity or unpopularity of an
incumbent President. Back in the days of
Eisenhower, Roosevelt, back that far,
there was a very close melding of the two.
But I don't think that's the case anymore,
regardless of who's in the White House.
So, I think that as I said earlier, the
problems that we did have in 1976 in the
West were primarily attributed to the fact
that I was not well known, I had to con-
centrate my efforts where I thought my
success would be most notable. And the
second point is I think that we've had an
exacerbation of that problem, because
we've tried to address some very, very
controversial issues that have been
ignored for too long. But my belief is that
after this year, when these issues have
been resolved, either by us, by the Con-
gress, or by the courts, that those prob-
lems will be lessened.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I may answer
one more question.
PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO WESTERN STATES
Q. Have you decided who will accom-
pany you on your trip, Mr. President,
the Western trip the Cabinet officers,
some of your family, what Congressmen,
White House staff?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. I
would guess that it would be among the—
Dr. Schlesinger, I'm sure, will be with me
for part of the trip, Bergland will prob-
ably be with me, and Cecil Andrus will
probably be with me for part of the trip.
I really don't know. Do you happen to
know, Walt?
MR. WURFEL. No, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't really seen
the list of people who will go with me, but
I know that those three will be there for
part of the trip. I need Bergland partic-
ularly, for instance, for the timber area,
Oregon and Washington. Schlesinger
needs to be with me in Colorado for the
solar energy question; Cecil Andrus in
California and other places for addressing
the question of maximum acreage to be
owned by families in the irrigated regions
where water comes from Federal sources.
But I can't answer your question any
better than that at this point.
Let me say that I always get a lot out
of these sessions, because you ask the kind
of questions that very seldom come up at
a White House news conference. They are
811
