Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
We will work actively with the Con-
gress in the coming year to pass the Bet-
ter Jobs and Income Act, and we will
and we will
provide in this year's budget for pilot em-
ployment programs so we will be ready
to implement the welfare reform program.
Family and Children
My Administration will continue its
strong commitment to strengthening the
American family and to expanding pro-
grams for children.
The Administration will propose this
year that the school breakfast program be
made mandatory in schools with high
concentrations of needy children. Fur-
ther, we will propose a major expansion
in special supplemental food programs for
women, infants, and children.
Among other major actions in 1978
will be:
-convening a White House Confer-
ence on Families;
-pressing for enactment of our pro-
posed reforms in foster care pro-
grams including new financial as-
sistance to aid in the adoption of
hard-to-place children;
-more than doubling the budget out-
lays for child welfare services, with
an emphasis on services that help
keep families together;
-continuing $200 million in special
funding for day care under Title
XX of the Social Security Act.
We will also depend upon the revital-
ized Community Services Administration
to develop new approaches to assist the
poor.
THE ELDERLY
Last year saw the enactment of Social
Security financing legislation that will as-
sure the system's financial integrity into
the next century. This year the Admin-
istration will continue to work for
strengthened legislation against unwar-
ranted age discrimination in the Federal
and private sector. We will propose leg-
islation to extend and strengthen the
Older Americans Act and we will seek a
13% increase in funding for programs
providing daily meals to the elderly, rais-
ing the total of daily meals served to
385,000. In addition, the Administration
will work to assure that the contributions
of older Americans are sought in our ef-
forts to meet national needs.
HOUSING
Last year we made progress toward
our national goal of a decent home in a
suitable environment for every American
family. 1977 was a good year for housing,
generally, with total new starts exceeding
two million. And we have renewed the
Federal government's commitment to
housing for the needy.
Early last year, the Administration pro-
posed major new initiatives to meet the
housing needs of low- and moderate-in-
come Americans-initiatives which are
central to our urban development strat-
egy. We had about 118,000 starts under
section 8 and public housing subsidized
programs in 1977. We look forward to an-
other 30 percent increase in subsidized
housing starts in these programs for 1978,
and 92,000 starts in the Assisted Housing
Rehabilitation Loan Programs. We will
reassess our national housing needs and
goals and our current housing and credit
policies designed to meet those needs.
In 1978, the Administration will
strengthen its commitment to meet the
housing needs of all communities with a
variety of expanded programs and new
initiatives:
-Rental housing assistance to an addi-
tional 400,000 low-income families, and
105
