Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And further, do you feel that by taking
this action the Israelis will be pressured
into making more concessions with Egypt?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I have
met already with Prime Minister Begin,
personally, on two occasions, and he will
be coming to our country next month on
the 14th and 15th and 16th to meet with
me again.
Every time I've ever met with him,
either privately or within a small group,
his first request has been to go ahead and
approve or recommend to the Congress
approval of the sale of very advanced
fighter planes, the F-16's and F–15's, our
best planes of all, to Israel.
The previous administration and I have
promised our long-time friends and allies,
the Saudi Arabians, to sell 60 F-15's to
them. The Egyptian request was much
more modest-to sell them the F-5E's,
which is not a very advanced fighter
plane. It's of fairly short range. And to
be perfectly frank, in a combat situation,
they would not be a match for the F-15's.
I thought it was proper and advisable
and hope the Congress will approve the
sale that I have advocated to the Israelis,
the Saudi Arabians, and the Egyptians.
It will not upset the balance of strength
in the Middle East. I would say that the
Israeli Air Force will still be the domi-
nant and the most efficient and effective
air force there by far.
One reason that I wanted to honor
President Sadat's request is that a few
years ago, Egypt was closely allied with
the Soviet Union and was completely de-
pendent upon Russia to give them their
military weapons. Since then, Egypt has
moved toward us, and now Sadat and I
have the closest possible personal relation-
ship, and Egypt is one of our own closest
possible friends. So, we cannot leave Egypt
defenseless.
I don't think there's any likelihood at
all of a war between Egypt and Israel.
They're well on the way toward peace.
But Egypt is still threatened by some of
their neighbors. Libya has heavy ship-
ments of arms coming in from the Soviet
Union; Ethiopia, the same; Iraq, the
same; Syria, the same; Algeria, the same.
And Egypt has got to be able to defend
themselves. The weapons that they did
buy, years back, from the Soviet Union
are now becoming obsolete.
And so I think this is a well-balanced
package. It does contribute to a greater
sense of security in the Middle East
among our own friends and neighbors,
and I think it also does not upset the bal-
ance of military power in the Middle
East. I might close by saying this: I
pledge myself each year while I'm in
office to cut down on the volume of sales
that we make to nations of this kind.
And we will reduce our sales.
We've also begun to discuss this issue
with other arms suppliers, not only
France, Germany, Belgium, Britain, and
so forth, but also the Soviet Union. And
we hope that we can get a worldwide
commitment to lessen or reduce the sale
of those conventional weapons at the same
time we work to reduce and then, hope-
fully, to eliminate nuclear weapons in the
future.
Thank you very much.
TAX REDUCTIONS AND THE BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, my name is Ken
Estey. I belong to Calvary Christian
School in Derry, New Hampshire, and I
live in Brookline, New Hampshire. My
question is, during your campaign for the
Presidency, you expressed a desire to bal-
ance the budget by 1981 and reduce the
size of the Federal Government. How can
this be accomplished in the light of the
fact that you approved a budget of over
$500 billion, which is a sizable increase
over the last budget?
THE PRESIDENT. The budget that I've
recommended to the Congress has the
368
