Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
QUESTIONS
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Do you think that Congress will go
along with your decision to send sophisti-
cated fighter jets to the Middle East? And
can you give us your rationale for includ-
ing, for the first time in these sales, Egypt
and Saudi Arabia along with Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think Congress
will go along with the proposal to sell a
limited number of airplanes in the Middle
East. F-15 planes are already being de-
livered to Israel, and in the new proposal
livered to Israel, and in the new proposal
Israel will receive additional F-15's and
F-16's, very advanced fighter planes.
We have for a long time sold military
equipment to Saudi Arabia, one of our
closest allies, staunchest friends, and eco-
nomic partners. This is the first time we've
sold F-15's to Saudi Arabia, but they have
other advanced equipment.
The first planes will be delivered to
Saudi Arabia not this year or next year,
but in 1981 or 1982. The planes that we
have agreed to sell to Egypt are the F-
5E's, not nearly so advanced a weapon as
the F-15's or F-16's. But as you know, a
few years ago, Egypt, which is now one of
our staunchest friends and allies, severed
their close relationship with the Soviet
Union and, in effect, became an ally of
ours. And I don't believe that there's any
danger of this relatively short-range, not
advanced fighter causing any disruption
in the peace between Egypt and Israel.
So for those reasons, I am advocating
to the Congress that they approve these
sales, and I believe the Congress will
agree.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, without asking you
to announce a deadline for a coal settle-
ment, can you give us any clue as to the
extent of your patience with the situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the country is
suffering already from the consequences of
the coal strike. I have asked the Secretary
of Labor and I've asked the negotiators
from the workers and from the coal
operators to stay at the bargaining table
in constant sessions until they reach an
agreement. There has been some progress
made to date.
the labor union itself. But the bargaining
As you know, there is a division within
council, which consists of 39 members, is
being kept as close as possible to the ne-
gotiating team that represents labor. We
hope that when an agreement is reached
that this will be in such a form and with
close enough consultations ahead of time
that it will be presented immediately to
the membership of the United Mine
Workers for approval.
So, I think that all of us are determined.
I've met personally at the White House
with labor and management in the coal
industry, and I can testify to you that they
are sincere in wanting to reach an agree-
ment.
Q. Would you be willing to see it go
on for another week?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't think we
could afford another week of negotia-
tions. I would hope that they could con-
clude their negotiations within the next
few hours or a day or so.
DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR NEW
ENGLAND
Q. Mr. President, Dan Rea, WBZ-TV,
channel 4, in Boston, Westinghouse
Broadcasting. Last week, as I'm sure you
very well know, New England was hit
with a very bad blizzard, and hundreds of
thousands of hourly production workers
in Massachusetts lost wages, wages that
will be made up in some part by the
State unemployment compensation fund.
But the difference between the unemploy-
333
