Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
What is now publicly identified as a
very difficult negotiating process has been
apparent to us as difficult for a long time,
and not just in this administration but
in the previous one as well. But I think
the prospect for peace now, compared to
what it was a year ago, is very good.
Q. How much money are you going to
raise tonight?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. They
feel good about it in Georgia. All the
States around, plus Puerto Rico, are
healthy. I think later we'll have a fund-
raiser in Texas, right?
Strauss has told me that whatever we
raise in Georgia, they're going to double
it in Texas. So, we hope to set a good
base for him to meet.
MR. STRAUSS. He's setting goals for the
administration now. [Laughter]
NOTE: The question-and-answer session was
held during the flight from Andrews Air Force
Base, Md., to Dobbins Air Force Base, Ga.
Ambassador Robert S. Strauss is Special Rep-
resentative for Trade Negotiations and
former chairman of the Democratic National
Committee.
Q. When are you going to get around
to actually working out the difficulty with
the Dallas-London route and putting your
signature on the transatlantic route—
[inaudible]?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that was not a
difficult decision for me. My own inclina-
tion is, wherever possible, to encourage
competition both in the international
routes and also in the domestic routes.
And I hope that the domestic carriers that
have benefited from the flights overseas
would be just as eager to have competition
here on the domestic routes.
Q. Can we get a commitment from you
to come to Atlanta to play a softball game
with the media this summer-laugh-
ter]-when it's warmer.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I hope
I get a chance to come back to Georgia
this summer.
Q. Mr. President, some of the big city
mayors were unhappy, and they expressed
that unhappiness with the fact that you
did not mention more help for the cities
your State of the Union address. What
do you say to that?
in
THE PRESIDENT. Well, almost every
item that's in the domestic budget is di-
Dobbins Air Force Base, Georgia rectly helpful to the major cities. We pro-
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on Arrival. January 20, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. [Inaudible]-with Presi-
dent Sadat. Well, we're trying to keep
both the military and the political talks
going on there.
Q. Mr. President, how do you apprise
the reaction of Congress to your State of
the Union address?
THE PRESIDENT. It was surprisingly
good. The last speech I made to them was
not one that aroused any applause at all.
It was devoted entirely to energy. But I
thought that the response last night was
excellent.
posed hundreds of millions of dollars for
basic education, for training programs,
for public service jobs, for transportation,
for housing, for crime control.
These moneys go into the urban centers,
sometimes in much larger quantities than
they do in other parts of the country, be-
cause the problems there are greater. And
the fact that we don't have a special allot-
ment of funds just for large cities is to be
expected, and it certainly is no cause for
concern by them.
I think the budget that I've put forward
now-and our urban policy report that
will be coming forward in March-will
be very adequate for the cities, including
Atlanta.
153
