Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the territorial issue, Mr. Denktash de-
clared that he was prepared to consider
"significant geographical readjustments"
which would enable "a considerable num-
ber of Greek Cypriots to resettle." Third,
Mr. Denktash spoke of important conces-
sions on Varosha, including the return of
some 35,000 Greek Cypriot inhabitants in
the course of negotiations. And fourth,
Mr. Denktash stated that the Turkish
Cypriots were eager to discuss with the
Greek Cypriots other steps for healing the
wounds of the past, such as the reopening
of Nicosia airport and joint economic
projects. It should be possible to build on
these ideas, and on the proposals put for-
ward by the two sides, to move towards
an early resolution of the Cyprus problem.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's daily schedule and other items
of general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
June 17
The President had breakfast with Brig.
Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, Chief of
the Government and Commander of the
National Guard of Panama, at the El
Panama Hotel, prior to the second multi-
lateral discussion with other Latin
American and Caribbean leaders.
Following the departure ceremony at
Tocumen International Airport, which
was attended by General Torrijos and
President Lakas of Panama, the Presi-
dent left Panama and returned to the
White House.
In his May 24 address to the U.N. Spe-
cial Session on Disarmament, President
Kyprianou put forward a proposal for
the complete demilitarization of Cyprus
and for the creation of a mixed Greek
Cypriot-Turkish Cypriot police force, in
proportion to population, under the
guidance and supervision of the United June 18
Nations.
The Administration has fully supported
the efforts of the Secretary General to
reconvene productive
productive intercommunal
negotiations. We will continue to do so.
It is our conviction that this is a crucial
moment in the history of Cyprus. If talks
are not resumed at an early date, oppor-
tunties for progress on the issue may well
be delayed for some time to come, and
as a consequence the unfortunate de facto
division of the island could further
solidify. It is for this reason that every
effort must now be made to bring the
parties together for sustained, good-faith,
and productive negotiations.
The White House,
June 23, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted
a buffet supper and jazz festival, featuring
40 American jazz artists, on the South
Lawn of the White House. The event was
in honor of the 25th anniversary of the
Newport Jazz Festival.
June 19
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
the Cabinet;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
At the invitation of the President of the
Federal Republic of Germany, Walter
Scheel, the President and Mrs. Carter will
make a state visit to the Federal Republic
1153
