Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
youth, of eternal vigor, and of eternal
courage.
The Nation of Yugoslavia has been
close to us in the United States since its
very foundations, when Woodrow Wilson,
our President, was instrumental in help-
ing Yugoslavia become a country.
President Tito was a contemporary of
great men, Prime Minister Churchill,
President Roosevelt, General de Gaulle,
and, as you know, many others, partic-
ularly Stalin. And he, along with Presi-
dent Nasser and Prime Minister Nehru,
originated the concept of the strength of
the nonaligned nations.
Not only the world but he's watched
the history of the United States evolve.
I'm the seventh American President in
succession whom he has known.
He is a man who is very vigorous in
his leadership. Within the last 8 or 9
months he's visited many countries per-
sonally, including the People's Republic
of China, Peking; the Soviet Union, Mos-
cow; our own country, Washington.
He's constantly searching for common
beliefs and common hopes and common
dreams that can unite people who might
otherwise be separated by a lack of com-
munication or differences in philosophi-
cal or political outlook.
He's a man who believes in disarma-
ment. As a matter of fact, he is a father
of the upcoming United Nations confer-
ence on disarmament.
He's a man who believes in human
rights. He was the host this past few
months of the human rights conference
which was designed to assess the progress
of the Helsinki agreement in that matter,
human rights, plus searching for a more
common ground on which the nations of
Eastern and Western Europe might unite
and resolve our differences.
Early in the present conflict between
Israel and her neighbors, he told me
today, on a trip to Egypt he reminded
that Arab nation, which was then in-
volved in disharmony and even hatred
and war with Israel, that a time had come
to recognize the right of Israel to exist
and to exist in peace.
There is a feeling of personal friend-
ship and warmth and admiration that
exists among the people of the United
States toward this great leader and the
land which he has guided through very
difficult times in recent decades.
On behalf of the American people, I
would like to offer a toast to the great
and courageous leader, President Tito,
and to the independent and proud coun-
try which he leads, Yugoslavia.
PRESIDENT TITO. Mr. President, dear
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen,
friends:
May I first thank you sincerely for the
expressions of welcome, the exquisite
hospitality you are surrounding us with,
and particularly for the friendly words
you have addressed to the peoples of
Yugoslavia and to me personally.
I wish straightaway to underscore my
pleasure at the successful development of
relations and ever broader cooperation
in numerous fields between our two coun-
tries, to which you, Mr. President, are
contributing so much.
In founding the relations on the famil-
iar principles of equality, noninterfer-
ence, and mutual respect, Yugoslavia and
the United States have, by the results that
we have achieved, reaffirmed to the full
extent the vitality and the irreplaceable
validity of these principles.
This can only encourage us to proceed
along that path and these bases in de-
veloping increasingly our cooperation in
political and economic fields, in science,
technology, engineering, culture, tourism,
and other spheres.
I am certain that this is also a safe way
for the constant strengthening of friend-
ship between our peoples, for the building
476
