May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Justice should not be forced to obey
the timetables of those who seek to avoid
it.
As a public official I've inspected
many prisons, and I know that nearly all
inmates are drawn from the ranks of the
powerless and the poor. A child of privi-
lege frequently receives the benefit of the
doubt; a child of poverty seldom does.
In many courts, plea bargaining serves
the convenience of the judge and the law-
yers, not the ends of justice, because the
courts simply lack the time to give every-
one a fair trial.
We have the heaviest concentration of
lawyers on Earth-1 for every 500
Americans; three times as many as are
in England, four times as many as are in
West Germany, twenty-one times as
many as there are in Japan. We have
more litigation, but I am not sure that
we have more justice. No resources of
talent and training in our own society,
even including the medical care, is more
wastefully or unfairly distributed than
legal skills.
Ninety percent of our lawyers serve 10
percent of our people. We are over-law-
yered and under-represented.
Excessive litigation and legal feather-
bedding are encouraged. Noncontested
divorces become major legal confronta-
tions in many States. Complete title
searches on the same property are unnec-
essarily repeated with each sale. Routine
automobile accidents-the cases clog our
courts while no-fault automobile insur-
ance is opposed.
The number of medical malpractice
suits skyrockets. Mahatma Gandhi, who
himself was a very successful lawyer, said
of his profession, and I quote, "Lawyers
will as a rule advance quarrels rather
than repress them." We do not serve
justice when we encourage disputes in
our society, rather than resolving them.
In my own region of the country, per-
haps even yours as well, lawyers of great
influence and prestige led the fight
against civil rights and economic justice.
They were paid lavish fees by their States
and heaped with honors for their efforts.
They knew all the maneuvers, and for too
long they kept the promises of the Con-
stitution of the United States from com-
ing true.
The basic right to vote, to hold a job,
to own a home, to be informed of one's
legal rights when arrested, to have legal
counsel if an indigent these rights have
been denied for generations in our coun-
try and are being recently won only after
intense struggle.
I think about these things when I come
to speak with you. What I think about
most, however, is the enormous potential
for good within an aroused legal profes-
sion and how often that potential has not
been and is not used. More than any
other nation on Earth, ours was created
out of respect for the law. We had the
first written Constitution-it's the oldest.
We proclaimed ourselves a government of
laws, not of men; we put our faith in in-
terpretations of the laws to resolve our
most basic disputes.
None of us would change our system
of laws and justice for any other in the
world. From the beginning, it made the
citizens the masters of the state and not
the other way around, and it has ex-
tended increasing protection to the poor
and the victims of discrimination.
It's because of the enormous power of
the law, and of the position of great in-
fluence and privilege which lawyers oc-
cupy within our society, that lawyers bear
such a heavy obligation to serve the ends
of true justice and, through dynamic ef-
fort, individually and collectively, through
organizations such as this, search for
those ends of justice.
836
