Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
States, but is in the tradition of a number
of earlier treaties between the United
States and Italy. The first United States
treaty to deal with any aspect of social
security was concluded with Italy in
1913, and the 1948 treaty of Friendship,
Commerce and Navigation with Italy
was the first of the post World War II
era to contain broad social security pro-
visions. This totalization agreement can
be expected to be even more advanta-
geous to Americans who have worked in
Italy, either as U.S. citizens or before
their immigration to this country, than
any of the earlier treaties or agreements.
I also transmit for the information of
the Congress a comprehensive report
prepared by the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare which explains
the provisions of the Agreement and pro-
vides the actuarial data on the number
of persons affected by the agreements
and the effect
social security
security
financing as required by the same provi-
sion of the Social Security Amendments
of 1977.
on
The Department of State and the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare join in commending this Agreement,
Protocol and Exchange of Notes.
The White House,
February 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Council on Environmental
Quality
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. February 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In 1977, we took together a number of
important measures to protect and im-
prove our environment. Most notable
were the "mid-course correction" amend-
ments that strengthened the basic goals
of our air and water pollution control
laws; a strong stripmining bill; and our
selection, with Canada, of the least dam-
aging route for a natural gas pipeline from
Alaska to the lower 48 states.
The Administration began reviews of
traditional policies on our use and devel-
opment of natural resources, especially
water and non-fuel minerals; put into
effect new policies to reduce oil spills and
regulate development of oil and gas on
the Outer Continental Shelf; proposed
expansions of wilderness and park areas;
started work on a coherent Federal strat-
egy for the control of toxic substances;
and advocated measures to curb nuclear
proliferation. On some of these matters
we submitted legislative proposals to Con-
gress.
We share a record of solid accomplish-
ment in the environmental area, and we
have set out worthwhile plans for the fu-
ture.
In June, 1977, the Council on Environ-
mental Quality convened a series of meet-
ings at my direction. The purpose was to
develop recommendations for improving
National Environmental Policy Act pro-
cedures, including the familiar "environ-
mental impact statement". CEQ solicited
testimony from corporations, state gov-
ernments, labor unions, environmental
groups, other Federal agencies, and the
public.
Virtually every witness criticized some
aspect of the Government's procedures for
translating environmental policy into
practical action. But, remarkably, not a
single witness called for the repeal or seri-
ous weakening of the National Environ-
mental Policy Act. On the contrary, all
agreed that the goals of NEPA were
sound, and that its procedures—while
needing improvement-should be re-
tained.
Such unanimity on the value of NEPA
indicates to me how far we have come in
430
