Feb. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Ghorbal, Ambassador of the Arab Repub-
lic of Egypt; and Mr. Ahmed Maheral-
Sayed, Director of the Foreign Minister's
Cabinet; and on the American side by
Vice President Mondale; Secretary of
State Cyrus Vance;
Vance; Dr. Zbigniew
Brzezinski, National Security Adviser to
the President; Ambassador Hermann
Eilts, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt; Assist-
ant Secretary Alfred L. Atherton; and
William Quandt, member of the National
Security Council staff.
President Carter reaffirmed his convic-
tion that the events set in train by Presi-
dent Sadat's initiative in going to
Jerusalem have, after decades of conflict,
opened the prospect of real peace in the
Middle East. The two Presidents are
agreed that no obstacles must be allowed
to prevent the achievement of a just and
lasting settlement. They believe that an
important beginning has been made in
breaking through the psychological bar-
riers to peace between Arabs and Israelis
and that unremitting efforts must con-
tinue to overcome the remaining legacy of
mistrust resulting from 30 years of conflict.
Recognizing the overriding importance of
peace to the future of the Middle East
and its peoples, they stressed the impor-
tance of maintaining the negotiating
momentum generated over the past few
months. Both Presidents recognized that
their efforts in the cause of peace will be
of fundamental importance not only for
the immediate future but for generations
to come. Their overriding conviction is
that a peaceful solution must be found to
spare the people of the Middle East the
agony of another war.
As a result of their extensive talks,
President Carter feels that he has a better
understanding of President Sadat's con-
cerns about the need for the peace process
to move forward without delay. He also
took the occasion of these talks to explain
in detail to President Sadat how the
United States envisages its role and re-
sponsibilities in the peace process as a
friend of both sides with a strong interest
in peace and stability in the region. Presi-
dent Carter reaffirmed the commitment of
the United States to play an active role
in the search for peace and to redouble its
efforts to ensure that progress is made in
the weeks ahead.
In the course of their long discussions,
President Sadat and President Carter re-
viewed the reasons for the slow pace of
progress and the factors which have
hampered the achievement of substantive
agreement. They found themselves in ac-
cord that efforts should remain focused
on creating conditions which are condu-
cive to the achievement of tangible results
and the broadening of negotiations, look-
ing toward the realization of a compre-
hensive settlement. To this end, the two
Presidents examined ways in which these
objectives can be accomplished. They will
further refine their views in the exchanges
between their representatives over the
next few days, as well as in their final
meeting on Wednesday.
As part of their effort to continue the
peace process, the two Presidents agreed
that Assistant Secretary Atherton should
return to the area in the near future to
continue the work that has been under
way, looking toward completion of a dec-
laration of principles. They view such a
declaration as an important step in estab-
lishing the framework for comprehensive
peace in the area.
The two Presidents also discussed other
issues of mutual concern to Egypt and the
United States, such as the dangerous sit-
uation in the Horn of Africa.
Both President Sadat and President
Carter expressed their satisfaction that the
Camp David meetings had provided the
opportunity for such thorough and fruit-
280
