Mar. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment that would take note of the full
review of implementation-including
human rights-that was the centerpiece
of the conference.
We regret that the Soviet Union failed
to permit the conference to proceed to
its proper conclusion. We intend to press
the Soviet Union to fulfill its commitment
to respect human rights, to fulfill the
Helsinki process, and to adhere to the
final Helsinki Act itself. The Soviet re-
fusal, under the consensus procedure, to
accept a full final document in no way
detracts from the success of the confer-
ence in conducting a full review of im-
plementation, especially in the area of
human rights. What has been done can-
not be ignored, whether or not the Soviet
Union is prepared to see it recognized in
a formal document.
We will continue to build on the suc-
cess that the Belgrade conference as a
whole represents. During the period be-
tween now and the Madrid meeting, we
will continue our efforts to promote imple-
mentation of the Helsinki Final Act. We
will work closely with our allies, and with
the European community, in that
process.
And at Madrid, we will renew the process
of review, seeking always to raise the in-
ternational standard of behavior, in all
aspects of the Helsinki Final Act and
particularly in the area of human rights.
Advisory Committee for
Trade Negotiations
Appointment of 29 Members. March 3, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of 29 persons as members
of the Advisory Committee for Trade
Negotiations for 2-year terms. They are:
W. JAMES AMOSS, JR., of New Orleans, presi-
dent of Lykes Brothers Steamship Co. (re-
appointment);
JAMES H. BINGER, of Minneapolis, chairman
of the executive committee of Honeywell,
Inc. (reappointment);
DAVID W. BROOKS, of Atlanta, chairman of
the policy committee of Gold Kist, Inc. (re-
appointment);
ALEX CHISHOLM, president of L & M Radiator,
Inc., in Hibbing, Minn. (reappointment);
JOAN GANZ COONEY, of New York City, pres-
ident of Children's Television Workshop;
MORTON H. DARMAN, president of the Top
Co. and Ivy Enterprises in Boston (reap-
pointment);
TONY T. DECHANT, of Denver, president of
the National Farmers Union;
W. D. EBERLE, president of the U.S. Council
of the International Chamber of Commerce,
senior partner in a Boston consulting firm,
and chairman of the board of several com-
panies (reappointment);
MURRAY H. FINLEY, of New York, president
of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile
Workers Union (reappointment);
DANIEL L. GOLDY, director of the Oregon State
Department of Economic Development (re-
appointment);
PATRICK ALLAN GRANT, president of the
American Farm Bureau Federation in Park
Ridge, Ill.
MAURICE R. GREENBERG, president and chief
executive officer of American International
Group, Inc., and C. V. Starr & Co. (reap-
pointment);
KARL D. GREGORY, professor of economics
management at Oakland University in
Michigan and management and economic
consultant;
LOYD HACKLER, president of the American
Retail Foundation;
RUTH J. HINERFELD, of Larchmont, N.Y., vice
president of the League of Women Voters
(reappointment);
ROBERT M. IVIE, president of Guild Wineries
and Distilleries in San Francisco (reap-
pointment);
HARVEY E. KAPNICK, JR., chairman of Arthur
Andersen & Co., in Chicago (reappoint-
ment);
454
