Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 12
forts towards peace, towards more dem-
ocratic international relations, and to-
wards ensuring to each and every nation
the right to live in freedom and to develop
according to their own aspirations.
You said, Mr. President, that many
people here in the United States have
come from Europe or other parts of the
world. I cannot boast that many Ro-
manians have come from other parts of
the world, because for almost 2,050
years because in 1980 we are going to
celebrate the 2,050th anniversary of the
first centralized nation state in Ro-
mania-Romanians have been there, and
they are going to stay there. They fought
to be free, and they want to be always
free.
In many ways the history of our two
respective countries are different, and the
present is also different from a number of
viewpoints. The United States is a devel-
oped country and a big country. Romania
is a smaller country and a still developing
country. But it is our wish, by relying on
the labors and efforts of our own people,
to develop on broader lines, to gain access
to modern science, to civilization, and
to live a life of dignity, freedom, and
independence.
I think that despite all differences, in-
cluding differences in social systems,
there are many things that can be com-
mon to our two countries and to our two
peoples, and mainly our common wish
for progress, our wish to see that the
accomplishments of human genius are
put in the service of happiness of all
peoples. No doubt, also, we have a com-
mon determination to do everything we
can in order to see to it that the wonder-
ful achievements of science should not
serve destruction and war, but the prog-
ress, well-being, and happiness of each
people and of all peoples.
I think that that is precisely the su-
preme rationale of human existence, and
that is also the fundamental problem, the
core of human rights the right to be
free, the right and the duty to respect the
freedom of others, and the duty to work
in such a way in order to enjoy himself
or herself and let others enjoy the bene-
fits of civilization.
Maybe on certain aspects of human
rights we might have different philo-
sophical concepts, and there is nothing
wrong in that. But we in Romania set
out from the premise that everything we
do should serve the well-being of the
people, should help all people live life
with more dignity and more freedom.
And we have a saying in Romania that
the little we have, we should distribute
fairly for all to enjoy.
You told me tonight, Mr. President,
about your Presidential campaign in the
early stages and how you really got
elected President. It's wonderful that you
could win over all obstacles, and now to
have a farmer at the head of the United
States, and also a farmer's son, and that
I used to work in the fields, I used to work
in factories, and we have there in Ro-
mania a farmer's son who has worked
all his life with his hands, and he's now a
President, too.
Maybe that helps our people also un-
derstand that whatever we do is for the
people to benefit and for them to live life
with more dignity.
As a matter of fact, if I remember
right, either the first or the second Presi-
dent of the United States used to be a
worker, and the founding father of scien-
tific socialism, Marx, used to say and to
quote that as an example of how a work-
ing man can rise to the highest dignity of
office.
Now when we talk about human rights,
it is good to remember all these things,
because the rights of all human beings
begin with the right to work, with the
right to learn, with the right to have ac-
741
