Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
reconfirmation of commitment to democ-
racy in its purest form: the right of
individual citizens to make their own
decisions through freely elected govern-
ment officials.
It's no coincidence that we share those
strong ties of friendship with this great
country. We share mutual achievements.
We share mutual problems. And we try to
exercise our influence in a beneficent way
toward areas of the world that might be
troubled with conflict and even greater
trial or tribulation.
So, as President, I come to express the
appreciation of the American people who
are at home for the American people who
are here doing such a fine job, and to let
you know how proud I am of you. We are
partners in a noble effort to exemplify the
finest hopes and aspirations of the Ameri-
can people throughout the Earth.
Thank you very much for letting me
have this chance to share with you what
we do together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Robert
F. Goheen, United States Ambassador to India.
Following his remarks, the President went
to Roosevelt House, the Ambassador's resi-
dence, for a working luncheon with Prime
Minister Desai.
Earlier in the day, the President met with
Prime Minister Desai at the Rashtrapati
Bhavan and participated in a wreathlaying
ceremony at the Gandhi Memorial.
New Delhi, India
Remarks Before the Indian Parliament.
January 2, 1978
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister,
Mr. Speaker, distinguished leaders of the
Republic of India:
I stand before you in this house, the
seat of one of the world's greatest legisla-
tures, with feelings of profound friend-
ship and respect.
I bring with me the warm greetings and
good wishes of the people of the second
largest democracy on Earth, the United
States of America, to the people of the
largest democracy, the Republic of India.
Not long ago, both of our people's gov-
ernments passed through grave crises. In
different ways, the values for which so
many have lived and died were threat-
ened. In different ways, and on opposite
sides of the world, these values have now
been triumphant.
It is sometimes argued that the modern
industrial state-with its materialism, its
centralized bureaucracies, and the techno-
logical instruments of control available to
those who hold power-must inevitably
lose sight of the democratic ideal.
The opposite argument is made even
more frequently. There are those who say
that democracy is a kind of rich man's
plaything, and that the poor are too pre-
occupied with survival to care about the
luxury of freedom and the right to choose
their own government.
This argument is repeated all over the
world-mostly, I have noticed, by persons
whose own bellies are full and who speak
from positions of privilege and power in
their own societies.
Their argument reminds me of a state-
ment made by a great President of the
United States, Abraham Lincoln. He said,
"Whenever I hear anyone arguing for
slavery, I feel a strong impulse to see it
tried on him personally."
The evidence, both in India and in
America, is plain. It is that there is more
than one form of hunger, and neither the
rich nor the poor will feel satisfied without
being fed in body and in spirit.
Is democracy important? Is human
freedom valued by all people?
India has given her affirmative action
and answer in a thunderous voice, a voice
5
