Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. No, no.
Q. How did you enjoy your trip to Ni-
geria? We were talking about the results.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought it was a
great trip to all three countries so far,
much better than we had anticipated in
every way. Of course, our ties with Vene-
zuela have been permanent and assured
by two former visits between me and
President Pérez, but I think the results of
the Brazilian trip were more than we had
any reason to expect.
The response by the Brazilian Govern-
ment and people was extraordinary in my
opinion, and Nigeria is a country with
which we have just entered a new era of
consultation, improved trade and diplo-
matic relations, and obviously it's one of
the major new national leaders in the
world.
We also enjoyed the trip very much.
It was a good experience for us.
Q. There any low points?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I thought the
translations- -[laughter].
Q. You only have yourself to blame.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. In Nigeria, was very bad.
Q. I've got a question for you.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that
when we get to Liberia, we're going to be
having some southern accents instead of
British accents.
Q. Listen, I had a little trouble under-
standing Obasanjo.
The President. That's British, but you
won't have any trouble in Liberia because
they still speak with a southern accent.
Q. Which is hotter, Nigeria or a peanut
field in Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. A peanut field in
Georgia. [Laughter] I think it was 87 in
Washington yesterday.
Q. It was. I talked to my wife last
night.
THE PRESIDENT. It was a good trip,
though.
Q. You were pleased with your meet-
ings with Obasanjo? You really thought
you had some new understandings or any-
thing? We're mainly concerned about this
business in the Horn, that they don't seem
to put the same emphasis that you do on
it.
THE PRESIDENT. I think his comments
last night, both when we signed the joint
communique and at his toasts, showed
that he's very concerned about foreign
troop presence in Africa.
I know that Tolbert in Liberia has been
even more outspoken on this subject.
Mobutu in Zaire is very concerned about
increasing Cuban presence in the nations
around him. Secretary Vance is much
more conversant with the latest develop-
ments.
SECRETARY VANCE. The same is true
with respect to Senghor and to Hou-
phouët-Boigny, too. They both expressed
concern about this.
Q. On Brazil, Mr. President, how do
you read the communique statement on
human rights, the expression of preoccu-
pation with the subject by General Geisel,
in view of the fact that there obviously are
deficiencies in the country? Is there a real
indication that they're going to return to
democracy any time soon?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are real
deficiencies in our own country as well,
but I think if you judge the progress over
the last 10 years, it is a matter of some
satisfaction on the part of President Geisel.
I was there 6 or 7 years ago, and there
was no room for public debate or con-
troversy. The press was very reticent in
their criticism of the government. I think
Cardinal Arns' ability to speak as freely
as he does is all a sign of improvement.
The number of political prisoners has been
reduced 90 percent. There are still a few.
Q. Do you think General Obasanjo
shares your concern? Did you get the im-
pression from your private conversations
670
