Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 6
are tied together militarily through a long
series of wars which we hope will never
come again. We are tied together politi-
cally in generations past, and we still have
strong friendships of trade and hope for
the future in Poland now. And we are tied
together culturally, and I think perhaps
most importantly of all, we are tied to-
gether through blood kinship.
There are millions of Polish Americans
here. I have gotten varying reports on
how many millions. [Laughter] I was
cautioned before I went there to be con-
servative in my estimates so that I
wouldn't claim too much. When I was
with First Secretary Gierek, the first thing
I said was there are 8 million Americans
of Polish descent. He said, “No, that's not
right. There are at least 12 or 14 million."
So I didn't argue with him. [Laughter]
But I think you know that this is a very
important thing to cherish. And during
the campaign, I was permitted to visit
many communities in our Nation which
have a heavy concentration of Americans
of Polish descent. Dr. Brzezinski, who was
in the receiving line, is very close to me,
and the man who's had the most effect
on my life, other than my own father,
Admiral Hyman Rickover, as you know,
is also from Poland.
I would like to make one other com-
ment, just as a matter of interest.
We are all impressed by the beautiful
musical heritage of Poland. And many of
our great performers who have moved
here are from Poland, the great com-
posers. As we sat in the ballroom the
evening of the state banquet, we listened
with great care to the quality of the Amer-
can National Anthem that was being
played by the orchestra there. And we
were in many other countries, but by far,
the outstanding performance, the most
perfect rendition of the Star-Spangled
Banner, we heard in Poland. And it was
with a sense of great appreciation that I
told First Secretary Gierek about the high
quality of this performance, and Dr.
Brzezinski did not argue with me when I
pointed out that this was the best per-
formance. [Laughter]
We have a performance scheduled for
you in a few minutes. The pianist, whom
my wife will introduce later and whom I
won't, is 80 years old. He has been at the
Washington train station. It took the
White House car an hour to get there.
He's on the way here. So, if you don't
mind until he gets here, Rosalynn and I
would like to come out and just be with
you for a few minutes to let you know that
we cherish your presence here in our
home, which is also your home.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the reception guests sang a tra-
then resumed speaking.]
ditional Polish song of greeting. The President
When Rosalynn and I laid a wreath at
the Nike Monument and we walked back
to the streets, the Polish Government had
not publicized our presence there, to hold
down the crowd. But there was a great
crowd. And when we walked back, they
sang that to me.
So, I just waded into the crowd
and shook hands-[laughter]-because it
made me feel at home. And once we did
stop at a corner at Dr. Brzezinski's sugges-
tion, just unannounced. And I got out of
the car, and I was just absolutely swept up
by heartfelt embraces and handshakes,
and the Secret Service, who were trying to
protect me, and the Polish police were not
able to hold the crowd back. So, finally I
got back in the car, opened the top, and
I stood on top of the car and shook hands
with them. [Laughter]
But it was a great reception. And I
think the friendship that exists in Poland
for our country is absolutely unshakable
283
