June 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
control some privilege that they have in
setting unnecessarily high prices. And I
will do my part. I believe the American
people will understand the need for it, and
I'm perfectly willing to take the political
consequences when people are dissatisfied
with the requirement of having to make
some modest sacrifice of their own.
This afternoon, Bob Strauss and Bob
Bergland will explain some specific actions
that we have been taking and will be
taking. And I believe that it is important
for the American people to understand
that this is a great challenge to us, but it's
extremely important. And I believe that
there will be approbation or approval
among American people if we adhere to
the principles that I've described briefly
this afternoon.
Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:35 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Sec-
retary of Agriculture Bob Bergland and Am-
bassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations, held a news con-
ference on the increases in beef imports.
New York City
Financing Legislation
Statement on House Action Approving
Guarantee Legislation. June 8, 1978
I am extremely gratified by the respon-
sible action of the House of Representa-
tives in approving guarantee legislation
which will assist New York City in meet-
ing its financing needs.
I believe that the overwhelming House
majority reflects its awareness of the prog-
ress that the city has made, as well as its
recognition that the city's financing prob-
lems require a permanent solution.
It is my strong view that the enactment
of the legislation supported by the admin-
istration is the appropriate course to avert
long-term Federal dependency and restore
New York to financing self-sufficiency.
National Council of
Senior Citizens
Remarks at the National Council's
Convention. June 9, 1978
Good morning. My good friend Nelson
Cruikshank and I rode over together, and
he described to me the history of this
remarkable organization. I want to say to
Jim Carbray that I'm very grateful to be
here to speak to you this morning from
the perspective of the President of our
great country.
A while back I got a letter from a very
young student who said, "Mr. Carter, you
have been in office for a few months now.
Would you rather be President or a real
person?" [Laughter]
As I prepared to come over here this
morning, I thought about that, because
quite often the same thing could be said
about those who have retired. "Would
you rather be a retired citizen or a real
person?" And the essence of our relation-
ship with one another, as the leader of
our country, and as an outstanding mem-
ber of our society, President on the one
hand, you on the other, is that we are real
people. We relate to one another as in-
dividuals. We are different from one an-
other. And there is no automatic, sharp
transition in a person at the time of retire-
ment. You're not one person the day
before retirement; you're not a different
person the day after.
And what I'd like to say this morning
is that our country recognizes the tre-
mendous contribution that all of you col-
lectively have made. We've not always
repaid that debt adequately. But at the
same time, in the repayment of that debt,
in the repair of oversights, we must re-
member the individuality of human be-
ings, even those who have reached retire-
ment age.
We've made a lot of progress in the last
15 months or so, 17 months. Nelson
1062
