Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to provide expedited review of any re-
quests for temporary relaxation of the
Clean Air Act regulations that may be
needed.
-I have instructed the Attorney Gen-
eral, working in close cooperation with the
Governors of the affected States, to review
and plan for any Federal measures that
may be needed to ensure continued peace
and lawfulness in the areas most affected
by the strike.
-In addition, I have requested forma-
tion of a Federal/State task force, with
headquarters in Canton, Ohio, to coordi-
nate efforts to ensure that employment
and human need consequences of power
cutbacks are minimized, and that power
brought into the affected region is shared
equitably. This task force, to be composed
of Governors, representatives of Federal
agencies, State public utility commissions,
private and public utilities and industrial
users, will be established immediately and
will convene initial meetings within the
next few days.
I continue to believe that the solution
to the strike must be worked out in free
collective bargaining by the parties. I
hope that all those involved in the strike
will abide by the law and act responsibly
in all respects. I urge all parties to re-
spect the principles of fairness and cooper-
ation during the days ahead.
Those in areas most affected by the
strike have already made great sacrifices.
Before the strike is over, and for several
weeks thereafter until the normal flow of
coal is restored, even greater hardship
will occur. I urge all those in areas threat-
ened by power cutbacks to conserve
energy, so that these sacrifices are shared
equally and so that no one will suffer un-
fairly or unnecessarily.
Energy Emergency in Ohio
Statement by the President.
February 11, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Ohio, pursu-
ant to Section 110(f) of the Clean Air Act,
I hereby determine that a regional energy
emergency exists in the State of Ohio of
such severity that a temporary suspension
of certain particulate control regulations
under the Ohio Air Quality Implementa-
tion Plan may be necessary, and that other
means of responding to the energy emer-
gency may be inadequate. This determina-
tion shall be effective for not more than
thirty (30) days, provided that the State
of Ohio shall hold the public hearing re-
quired by Section 110(f) of the Clean Air
Act within 1 week of this determination.
The Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency retains full authority
to disapprove temporary suspensions of
regulations in Ohio on a case-by-case basis
and to exercise his emergency powers au-
thority under Section 303 of the Clean
Air Act, when and if necessary.
I urge the Governor to act with due
care if he suspends air pollution regula-
tions under the authority provided by this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health.
NOTE: The Presidential determination is
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 24,
1978.
Overseas Private Investment
Corporation
Nomination of James M. Friedman and
Richard R. Swann To Be Members of the
Board of Directors. February 13, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate James M. Friedman and
Richard R. Swann to be members of the
Board of Directors of the Overseas Pri-
314
