Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 26
sistency in these two positions, and would
you have approved that plan?
THE PRESIDENT. There was never any
plan put forward to send back-door
weapons to the rebels, because that would
have been in violation of the American
law. And I don't believe any responsible
person in my administration would have
violated the so-called Clark amendment,
which prevents us from either direct or
indirect involvement in the internal af-
fairs in Angola.
Our relationship with the Angolan of-
ficials has been a fairly consistent one.
Ever since I've been in office, we have
had negotiations or consultations directly
with Angolan officials. This is important,
first of all, because we want to have peace
in southern Africa. And Mr. Neto, who is
the leader of the Angolan Government,
has some influence on other African lead-
ers, particularly the leaders of SWAPO,
where we want an agreement in Na-
mibia. Also, we have wanted to hold the
Angolan leaders responsible for any
ture possible invasions into the Shaba
Province in Zaire.
fu-
I also would like to see the Cubans be-
gin to remove their troops from Angola.
And a few weeks ago in New York, their
Foreign Minister, the Angolan Foreign
Minister, met with our Secretary of State
and suggested additional consultations,
which is a continuation of what we've
done all the time.
We have no desire at this point, no
plans to normalize our relationship with
Angola. But we have never contemplated
getting militarily involved in Angola, di-
rectly nor indirectly, and this present visit
by Mr. McHenry 2 to Angola is part of a
series of consultations with them.
2 Donald F. McHenry, Deputy U.S. Repre-
sentative in the United Nations Security Coun-
cil.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow that
up. I'm not quite sure what you are say-
ing when you say there was no plan pre-
sented to the Senate. The CIA Director,
Mr. Turner, did present a document, a
written plan, to Senator Clark to try to
see if Senator Clark thought that this
would be acceptable, and would not vio-
late the Clark amendment. The plan
called for sending arms through a third
country to the rebel forces in Angola.
Did you know about that meeting? Did
you know about that document? And
since others around the administration
did, would you have approved it?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't have any idea
that the CIA Director had even talked to
Senator Clark about it. My impression of
it from the news reports and from subse-
quent information was that he went to
consult with Senator Clark to see within
the bounds of the law what involvement
would be possible in Angola. But I had no
knowledge of that, nor have I ever in-
tended to send weapons to Angola, either
directly nor indirectly.
TAX REDUCTION LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, to get back to the
opening statement on capital gains tax
policy, as you know, Mr. President, the
House Ways and Means Committee is
considering the so-called compromise pro-
posal advanced by Congressman Jones of
Oklahoma, which would set capital gains,
I believe, at a 35-percent maximum rate
and also eliminate the so-called alterna-
tive tax.
My question is, is the Jones compromise
equally unacceptable as the Steiger pro-
posal to you?
THE PRESIDENT. When I referred to the
Steiger amendment or proposal, I was
also referring to the Jones proposal, which
is a version of the Steiger amendment.
1185
