Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Our proposals deal with the major
changes that must now be made. By en-
acting them, we will make employment
in the civil service more challenging,
more profitable, more productive, and a
more gratifying career. But the greatest
beneficiaries will be the American people,
who can expect to see a more competent
and efficient and responsive govern-
ment—one that is worthy of the people
it was created to serve.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. in
the ballroom at the National Press Club. Frank
Aukofer is president of the National Press Club.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 2, 1978
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
FRANK AUKOFER. Oddly enough, we
have questions that don't relate to what
your speech was about, Mr. President.
The first question, which has been in
the news much lately is-this comes from
James Cary of the Copley News Serv-
ice-what are you going to do about the
deteriorating dollar and the basic cause
of its collapse, soaring foreign oil im-
ports? And a related question, by Joseph
Slevin of the Slevin Economic Report,
saying that European financial officials
say the U.S. should defend the dollar
more vigorously.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Frank. I
spent a lot of time studying about the
American dollar, its value in interna-
tional monetary markets, the causes for
the recent deterioration as it relates to
other major currencies. I can say with
complete assurance that the basic prin-
ciples of monetary values are not being
adequately assessed on the current inter-
national monetary markets. There are
three that I would like to mention
specifically.
First of all, the attractiveness of in-
vestment in our own country compared
to other nations is rapidly increasing.
One of the reasons is the higher interest
rates that can be paid on investments in
our country.
Another one is the rapidly increasing
consumption of oil that occurred during
1977. This caused us a great deal of con-
cern. In 1978, we will not have that cir-
cumstance. Present trends and future
projections show that at the worst we'll
have a leveling off of imports of foreign
oil, one of the major causes of legitimate
deterioration in the quality of the dollar.
And the other point is the degree with
which American economic recovery or
growth compares to potential purchases
of our own goods. In this last year, our
own rate of growth was about 3 percent
greater than the average of our major
trading partners. That difference will be
substantially less in 1978. We will still
have adequate growth, but our major
trading partners will have better growth
than they had last year.
So, these three basic causes in 1977 for
some lowering in the dollar's value will
be much better in 1978. We do move
aggressively and adequately to prevent
disorderly market circumstances when
that need is obvious to us. We'll continue
to do that. But my own belief is that
these basic principles that assess the
legitimate value of the dollar have not
been adequately observed recently. My
guess is that in the future over a longer
period of time, what I've just told you
will be observed, and the dollar will re-
main in good shape.
THE COAL STRIKE; ADMINISTRATION'S
PERFORMANCE
Q. We have a number of questions on
coal. This one from Richard Strout of
438
