Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 27
passes both Congress and the White
House.
I've got an excellent Cabinet. There's
not a single person who serves with me at
the Cabinet level about whom I have any
concern or whom I would want to
change. I would like to go out of office at
the end of 4 years with the same Cabinet
that I have now. They are very strong,
very good people. And I think that they
deserve your confidence and your sup-
port, and also they deserve to know from
you when you have a concern about their
administration.
I don't run the Federal Government
through White House aides. They are all
very close to me and they are close to the
Cabinet members. So, if there's a problem
in health or welfare, I would like for you
to go directly to Joe Califano and
let him get to know you and let you
get to know him. If there's a problem
with the cities, go to Juanita Kreps and
go to Pat Harris, deal with the Cabinet
members directly.
We have a major responsibility this
year in the Governors' elections, in the
elections for the Members of Congress
and the Senate to be successful. And I
believe that we can prove to the rest of
the Nation that we have an administra-
tion that can serve the needs of our
people.
vents further progress and further con-
fidence in domestic and international eco-
nomics. And the uncertainty about the fu-
ture related to energy is something that
we must overcome. You can help me with
that. We've got an economic program,
tax reduction, tax reform, a good solid
budget, a concern about our cities, agri-
culture, with which I need your help. I
think our program is well-considered,
well-presented, and is sound. And there
is a partnership here in which you enjoy
full participation.
The last thing I would like to say is
this: I don't want you to consider your
service on the Democratic National Com-
mittee to be a spasmodic responsibility. I
would like for you to consider it to be a
daily responsibility. Don't just wait until
a meeting is called here before you exer-
cise the leadership that's been given to
you. You're equally responsible with me
to make sure that the Democratic Party
never betrays the trust that has been
placed in us.
I'd like to see Democrats in the White
House for a long time to come. And if
you work closely with me, I think that's-
[inaudible].
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:33 a.m. in
the Presidential Ballroom at the Capitol Hil-
ton Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred
to John C. White, newly elected chairman of
the Democratic National Committee, and
Kenneth M. Curtis and Robert S. Strauss,
former chairmen of the committee.
There are some severe challenges that
presently face us, with which I need your
help. There will be an early bringing to
the floor of the Panama Canal treaties. A
year ago the support for these treaties in
the Congress or among the people was
minimal, if it existed at all. But the good Panama Canal Treaties
negotiating results have given us a base
of truth and substance which has per-
mitted us to convince the American peo-
ple and the Members of the Senate that
the treaties are in our best interests.
We've got an energy question that must
be resolved. It's kind of a cancer that
pre-
Letter to Senator Richard Stone.
January 27, 1978
To Senator Richard Stone
Thank you for meeting with me yes-
terday about the Panama Canal Treaties.
You have expressed concerns that are
227
