Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 23, 1978
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks to Members of the Southern
Baptist Brotherhood Commission.
June 16, 1978
President Jimmy Allen, Ambassador Den-
nis, Reverend Hardy, my good friend
Glendon McCullough, fellow members of
the Southern Baptist Brotherhood, fellow
Christians, my friends:
It was almost worth the trip to Atlanta
just to discover that Baptists wrote "Blest
Be the Tie That Binds" and the words
to "My Country Tis of Thee."
I've been reading about the convention
with great excitement. I read about the
breakfast plans this morning. I under-
stand that Glendon McCullough was try-
ing to finance a cooperative program.
[Laughter] This may have worked with
Episcopalians and other wealthy people,
but Baptists have a limit on what we can
contribute for breakfasts. [Laughter] Per-
haps if he had asked Anita Bryant this
morning, there may have been more
success.
This morning, as a Christian, as a Bap-
tist layman, I'm pleased to be here, but I
would like to talk to you from the per-
spective of a President.
I've been in office now not quite a year
and a half, and I've seen very clearly that
government touches every life and that
what the American Government is
touches people in every other nation be-
cause of the power, the strength, the in-
fluence, the wealth of our country.
This puts a tremendous responsibility
on me as a public official, but it also puts
a tremendous responsibility on you, every
one of you, as American citizens, because
in a free society like our own, we are not
only blessed with a chance to grow, to
learn, to stretch our hearts and minds in
total freedom, but our religious convic-
tions teach us how that freedom might be
used and the limits of it as we serve
others. And in a democracy we know that
we shape and control the government to
the extent that we are willing to partici-
pate and contribute our influence.
So, in effect, as Americans, as Chris-
tians, we not only shape our own lives
and set an example for our neighbors im-
mediately around us, but we also shape
what our country is and what it hopes to
be in the future, therefore influencing
people throughout the world.
As President, I still look on government
in a personal way, which is a surprise to
some people. Last year I got a letter from
a child who said, "Now that you've been
in office for 6 months or so, would you
1113
