Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that they will not use the warplanes
against Israel in any future conflict. And
further, various administration spokes-
men have pointed out that the Saudi
Arabian Government will be dependent
on the U.S. for technical support for
these planes, and this support could al-
ways be cut off in the event that a future
conflict would start and that the Saudis
desired to use the weapons against Israel.
Is it your understanding that both
types of assurances will be in effect?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we would not
sell the planes to the Saudi Arabians if we
thought that the desire was to use them
against Israel. I'm completely convinced
that the Saudis want their airplanes to be
used to protect their own country.
The Saudis have informed officials in
our Government that they do not desire
to deploy them at Tabuk, which is the
airfield nearest to Israel, and I know for
a fact that the configuration of the weap-
ons on the F-15 that the Saudis have
offered is primarily a defensive config-
uration. And for those reasons I feel sure
that the problems that you described are
adequately addressed in the proposals
that I've made to the Congress and in the
statements that the Saudis have already
made.
NEW YORK CITY
Q. Mr. President, the long-term loan
package for New York City is in a great
deal of trouble on Capitol Hill. I'm curi-
ous, sir, just how much of a commitment
are you prepared to make to push for that
legislation in the coming weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's one of the
major goals of our administration to have
economic aid for New York City. The
Secretary of the Treasury, Mike Blumen-
thal, has discussed this since the first day,
first few days that we were in office, with
the mayor of New York, Beame, and now
Koch, and also with Governor Carey and
other officials in New York-the labor
leaders, the bankers in New York City,
and others. We've also had close con-
sultations with the committees in Con-
gress.
We have proposed a package that I
think would alleviate New York City's
short-term and long-term financial prob-
lems. But a major part of the responsibil-
ity has got to fall upon the people in New
York City itself.
Unless New York is willing to commit
themselves and to prove to us that they
can and will balance the budget through
careful consideration of how money is ex-
pended to the levels of taxation involved,
unless the leaders in New York City, both
in and out of government, prove to us
and the Congress that they will operate
or cooperate together to put New York
City back on a sound basis, I don't think
it's possible for the Congress to pass the
New York City legislative proposal that
we have already submitted to the Con-
gress.
I think that, so far, indications are that
all persons involved ourselves, the con-
gressional leaders, and the New York City
officials in and out of government—are
committed to this common goal. So, I
believe the Congress will pass the legisla-
tion. I think the proposal we made will
help to solve New York City's problems
without costing the American taxpayers
anything. And I believe that it will bring
all of us together in a much more cooper-
ative way.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
TAX REDUCTION AND REFORM
Q. Mr. President, if I could just follow
up on an earlier tax question, how un-
fair do you think the tax burden is that
782
