Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
as authorized by the Disaster Relief Act
of 1974, Public Law 93-288.
The President has declared a major dis-
aster for the State of New Hampshire as
a result of high winds, tidal surge, and
coastal flooding, beginning about Feb-
ruary 6, for the purpose of providing
assistance to State and local governments
and individuals. The President also deter-
mined that the damage resulting from
snow and ice, beginning about February 6,
is sufficient to warrant implementation of
those programs of Federal agencies that
provide assistance to individuals only, as
authorized by the Disaster Relief Act of
1974, Public Law 93-288.
The President declared a major disaster
for the State of Maine as a result of high
winds, tidal surge, and coastal flooding,
beginning about February 7, for the pur-
pose of providing assistance to State and
local governments and individuals. The
President also determined that the dam-
age resulting from snow and ice, begin-
ning about February 7, is sufficient to
warrant implementation of those pro-
grams of Federal agencies that provide
assistance to individuals only, as author-
ized by the Disaster Relief Act of 1974,
Public Law 93-288.
The President left the White House for
a trip to Rhode Island, Maine, and New
Hampshire.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted February 13, 1978
GLORIA CUSUMANO JIMENEZ, of North Caro-
lina, to be Federal Insurance Administrator,
Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment (new position).
LESLIE LAZAR KANUK, of New Jersey, to be a
Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term
expiring June 30, 1981, vice Clarence Morse,
term expired.
NOMINATIONS-Continued
Submitted February 13-Continued
The following-named persons to be members of
the Board of Directors of the Overseas Pri-
vate Investment Corporation for terms ex-
piring December 17, 1979:
JAMES M. FRIEDMAN, of Ohio, vice Gus-
tave M. Hauser, resigned.
RICHARD R. SWANN, of Florida, vice
James A. Suffridge, term expired.
Submitted February 15, 1978
ELLEN B. BURNS, of Connecticut, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Con-
necticut, vice M. Joseph Blumenfeld, retired.
Submitted February 17, 1978
ROGER KIRK, of the District of Columbia,
a Foreign Service officer of Class one, to be
the Deputy Representative of the United
States of America to the International
Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of
Ambassador.
EVELYN T. DAVIDSON, of Colorado, to be Su-
perintendent of the Mint of the United
States at Denver, vice Betty Higby, resigned.
ROBERT W. SWEET, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of New York, vice Inzer B. Wyatt,
retired.
JAMES V. SERIO, JR., of Louisiana, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice Ollie
Lee Canion, resigned.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following releases of the Office of the
White House Press Secretary, distributed dur-
ing the period covered by this issue, are not
included in the issue.
Released February 14, 1978
Fact sheet: summary of Federal actions in re-
sponse to the New England storm emer-
gencies
News conference: on Federal actions in re-
sponse to the New England storm emer-
gencies by Gregory S. Schneiders, Direc-
tor, White House Projects
Announcement: nomination of Ellen B. Burns
to be United States District Judge for the
District of Connecticut
329
