June 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Visit to Panama
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
June 16, 1978
President Lakas, General Torrijos, my
friends from Panama and the United
States, and to the children from the
schools of Panama who so enthusiastical-
ly have sung our national anthems:
To all of them, I wish to express my
thanks for having given such a happy be-
ginning to our visit. Thank you.
I have looked forward to this trip for
a long time. As all of you know, the rela-
tions between the United States and
Panama have been an important part of
my daily work since the day I became
President. I have learned a great deal
about the history and accomplishments
of the Panamanian nation, and about the
pride and determination of the Pana-
manian people. So, I don't come to you
as a stranger, but as a friend and partner.
Throughout the long negotiations and
debate on the canal treaties, our two na-
tions have been blessed with the continu-
ing encouragement of our friends in the
hemisphere. I especially appreciate the
fact that the leaders of five Latin Ameri-
can and Caribbean democracies are here
in Panama today as a testimony to the
significance of this historic transfer.
We meet as neighbors some richer,
some larger, some with resources vital to
the others, each with different needs and
problems. But we share the common goal
of creating a world where all people may
devote their energies to improving human
life.
In the years since World War II, much
of the Earth's geography has been re-
drawn-colonial empires have dissolved,
and new, sovereign nations have been
born. The control of many of the passages,
both natural and manmade, that connect
the Earth's lands and seas has shifted from
one nation to another. Too much blood,
too much strife, too much bitterness, have
gone into many of these changes.
But transferring control of the Panama
Canal continues and strengthens the bond
that was forged between our nations in its
building. There will be no bloodshed, no
bitterness, no instant when the path be-
tween the Earth's two great oceans will
be closed.
This is a moment of great historic
promise. The nations of our hemisphere
are embarking on a new, more equal rela-
tionship. For 75 years the United States
and Panama have been friends. Now we
will also be partners, setting an example
for the world of how nations can resolve
their differences peacefully and to their
mutual benefit, thus ensuring that the re-
sponsible, long-term management of an
important international resource, instead
of being endangered, will be forever
guaranteed.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. at
Tocumen International Airport in Panama City
in response to remarks by Brig. Gen. Omar Tor-
rijos Herrera, Chief of the Government and
Commander of the National Guard of Panama.
Demetrio B. Lakas is President of Panama.
The President spoke in Spanish, and the
translation of his remarks follows the transcript.
Visit to Panama
Remarks on Signing the Protocol of Exchange
of Instruments of Ratification Regarding the
Panama Canal Treaties. June 16, 1978
General Torrijos, President Lakas, Presi-
dent Pérez, President López Michelsen,
President López Portillo, President Cara-
zo, Prime Minister Manley, distinguished
guests and friends:
First of all, I want to thank General
Torrijos and President Lakas for their in-
vitation to participate in this great cere-
mony.
I came to Panama and accepted this in-
I
1118
