May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
will be a lot more benefit from the money
we have to spend.
Q. Do you think this trip has helped
solve what some perceive as a difficulty
you have in this section of the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, somewhat. I
think whenever I go out, it helps me to
learn more about them and special sen-
sitivities of areas in which I have never
lived. And I think the preparation for the
trip and the personal knowledge that I've
been there and I've listened is of help,
also.
We've got some problems that I think
can be resolved fairly soon. Just the evolu-
tion of a water policy for the first time in
history causes some people concern, but I
think when the policy is evolved, when
it's understood, we'll have much less dis-
pute and dissidence in the future than
we've had in the past.
The same thing applies to the d-2 lands
in Alaska, which is the most important
environmental decision that will be made
in our generation.
The same thing applies to the limit on
federally subsidized irrigated lands that
we've had to face. This originated in the
courts; the same thing with the Indian
claims cases that have come up in the
court-now we have to address them ad-
ministratively. But I think after this first
couple of years of trying to tackle prob-
lems that have been ignored for too long,
there will be an understanding in the
West that we really understand their prob-
lems and we're trying to deal with them,
with their participation.
LEGAL AND MEDICAL PROFESSIONS
Q. You have got some lawyers upset.
Mr. Spann of Atlanta, the ABA presi-
dent, said he's surprised at you, that it's
the Federal Government that needs to
move on improving the quality of jus-
tice, not the legal profession in the first
instance.
THE PRESIDENT. I think I expressed
myself both clearly and accurately yes-
terday. And there's no doubt in my mind
that lawyers care genuinely about their
own clients, but quite often when they
organize into a bar association, the bar
association is primarily concerned about
the welfare of lawyers and not the wel-
fare of clients. And the same thing ap-
plies to other people like medical doctors.
I think doctors care very deeply about
their patients, but when they organize
into the American Medical Association,
their responsibility is to the welfare of
doctors. And quite often, those lobbying
groups are the only ones that are heard in
the State capitals and in the Capital of
our country. So, I think it's very impor-
tant that a President or a Governor ex-
press their genuine concern about some of
the trends in the legal profession. I did it
when I was Governor. My opinions have
not changed.
And a major responsibility is now fall-
ing on lawyers to try to redress not only
some of those differences that exist be-
tween themselves and their clients, ob-
vious delay tactics in court, a misapplica-
tion of legal services away from poor
people toward the rich, and an almost
adamant and constant opposition to any
sort of reforms that would help clients
and help the criminal justice system in
our country.
I think there's a trend in the right
direction now. There's more responsive-
ness in organized groups, but it's pri-
marily confined so far to the local bar
associations like the one in Los Angeles
County. And I hope this trend will con-
tinue, and I hope my speech yesterday
will point out to them some clear needs
in the legal profession.
Q. But you're as concerned about doc-
tors as you are about attorneys?
856
