May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Members of the Senate who were pro-
posing legislation to prevent nonnuclear
nations from having the ability to develop
atomic weapons. And when I spoke out
against an unfair, disgraceful tax system
and called for decent basic tax reform
when I got to Washington, I found out
that many of my proposals which the
Congress is now considering had long
been espoused and supported-again you
guessed it by Floyd Haskell.
I've seen a resurgence throughout the
world of interest in basic human rights.
Again, this quiet, decent man has epito-
mized America's commitment for the
world to see, of the preservation of innate
human freedoms, an absence of political
persecution, and the right of a person to
live in a decent home, to have food to
eat, an education for one's children, de-
cent health care, and a right to develop
as an individual.
Tonight I want to talk very briefly
about another subject in which Senator
Floyd Haskell has been a leader. One of
the most important and difficult issues
ever faced by the American Congress is
that of establishing a comprehensive
energy policy. Again, he is a leader, and
he has singled out, as a special aspect of
his interest, solar energy.
This has been derived by him, I know,
from the people of Colorado. And he rec-
ognized very early that you experience
here the blessing of 300 days of pure sun-
shine each year. Unfortunately, Floyd in-
vited me to come to Colorado on one of
the other 65. [Laughter]
He was on the committee in 1974 that
established the concept of a solar energy
research institute, not knowing at that
time, but certainly hoping, that the na-
tionwide headquarters for this effort
would be in Colorado. And it's no acci-
dent that because of his good work as a
leader of the Colorado delegation, that a
package was put together with the help of
Governor Lamm and others that made
the decision to come to Golden, Colorado,
based not on political influence, but based
on the fact that you deserved it. And he
made sure that Colorado deserved this
honor.
We live in a great Nation and a fast-
changing world. My own background is
in engineering and physics. I was one of
the early students and workers in estab-
lishing the concept that atomic power
could be used for peaceful purposes. But
as Floyd Haskell has pointed out in some
of his speeches, it's not exactly logical to
have a nuclear core developing millions
of degrees of heat, and temperature heat-
ing a cooling agent to thousands of de-
grees, to be transported hundreds of
miles, to heat a house to 68 degrees. But
that's what we do.
And the tremendous Government sub-
sidy that must go into systems of this kind
and extremely low efficiency of this kind
of heat production has long been recog-
nized by him and others as wasteful and
incompatible with the hopes and ideals of
American people.
We've got a nuclear generator, a
nuclear powerplant that serves us well. It's
one on which Coloradans would like to
see the future energy technology built. It's
in a safe place-92 million miles away-
and the name of it is the Sun.
Well, I think it's accurate to say that
no one is against solar energy. But a lot
of Americans, a lot of people around the
world don't believe that it's time yet for
solar energy to be used.
I grew up on a farm in deep south
Georgia. We derived our only mechanical
power from the wind. We plowed our
fields with mules and horses fed by crops
grown from the Sun. When we were ready
for harvest, we didn't use natural gas or
propane or oil to dry our crops. It was
dried by the Sun. And this was a common
practice in agriculture and other indus-
"
828
