Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tries, assure a better quality of life for all
peoples, provide a more equitable sharing
of the benefits of growth, and encourage
more rapid national development.
The two Presidents agreed on the im-
portance of frequent consultations and
close cooperation between the two Gov-
ernments. They agreed that the mecha-
nisms and procedures of consultation es-
tablished under the Memorandum of
Understanding of February 21, 1976,
should continue to be used and instructed
their Foreign Ministers accordingly. The
two Presidents expressed their intention
to continue in close personal communica-
tion so as to permit their direct and
prompt address to matters of special in-
terest to their two countries.
The two Presidents expressed their
great personal satisfaction that their con-
versations, conducted in an atmosphere of
friendship and mutual respect, had re-
sulted in a very useful, comprehensive
and mutually beneficial exchange of views
on a wide range of multilateral and bi-
lateral issues, and a full appreciation of
each other's views.
Upon ending their visit, President and
Mrs. Carter thanked President and Mrs.
Geisel for the cordial hospitality offered
to them by the Brazilian people and
ernment.
gov-
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was
released at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
March 26
The President returned to the White
House after a weekend stay at Camp
David, Md.
March 27
The President transmitted to the Con-
gress the District of Columbia budget for
fiscal year 1979.
March 28
While in Caracas, the President met at
La Casona with Rómulo Betancourt,
former President of Venezuela.
March 29
The President declared a major dis-
aster for the State of Indiana as a result
of severe storms and flooding, beginning
about March 15, which caused extensive
public and private property damage.
March 30
Following his arrival in Rio de Janeiro,
the President went to the National Memo-
rial Monument, where he placed a wreath
at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
March 31
While in Rio de Janeiro, the President
met at the summer residence of Mayor
Marcos Tamoyo with Cardinal Paulo
Evaristo Arns, O.F.M., archbishop of São
Paulo; Cardinal Eugenio de Araújo Sales,
archbishop of Rio de Janeiro; Raymundo
Faoro, president of the Brazilian Bar As-
sociation; José Mindlin, a Brazilian busi-
nessman; Julio Mesquita, publisher of the
O Estado de São Paulo; and Marcos
Vianna, president of the National Bank
for Economic Development.
The President left Brazil for visits to
Nigeria and Liberia.
640
