Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 15
food prices and to budget expenditures,
and would have undermined our attempts
to form a farmer-held grain reserve to
protect against future crop shortfalls.
The steady improvement in farm prices
under the programs of the Food and
Agriculture Act of 1977 demonstrates
that it, and related statutes, are provid-
ing more effective insurance against eco-
nomic risk.
Now our farmers need better insurance
against the risk of natural disaster. Re-
cently Secretary Bergland sent to the
Congress our proposed farm production
protection act, which will provide a na-
tionwide, all-risk insurance program
tailored to the needs of individual pro-
ducers. It is my sincere hope that the
Congress can move rapidly to reform the
present crop insurance and disaster assist-
ance programs.
I also strongly urge the Congress to act
on legislation that the administration has
forwarded to establish an international
emergency wheat reserve. This bill au-
thorizes government purchase of wheat
from the marketplace to accumulate a
total reserve of up to 220 million bushels.
This reserve will strengthen our commit-
ment for food aid to the less developed
countries of the world. It will ensure that
U.S. food aid shipments will not be cur-
tailed when there have been substantial
shortfalls in world grain production and
food aid needs are most critical.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6782 is Public Law
95-279, approved May 15.
Middle East Arms Sales
Statement on Senate Action Approving the
Sales. May 15, 1978
I am deeply gratified by the Senate's
decision today which will permit the pro-
posed arms sales to Israel, Egypt, and
Saudi Arabia. That action reaffirms our
historic and unshakable commitment to
the security of Israel-a commitment
which will continue to have the unwaver-
ing support of this administration and the
American people.
At the same time, the Senate vote
strengthens our ties with moderate Arab
nations who share our goal of peace and
stability in the region. We also honor bi-
partisan pledges made by the previous ad-
ministration as well as my own to help
our friends in the Middle East meet their
legitimate needs for self-defense.
The approval of these sales will not
violate the arms limitation policy of this
administration, which I announced last
May. That pledge to limit arms sales will
be met. If and when other nations are
willing to join with us in mutual restraint
on the sale of conventional weapons, even
greater reductions will be possible.
In the meantime, the Senate's action
makes it clear that the United States
stands ready to provide needed assistance
when unrestrained arms sales by other
nations pose a threat to the security of
our friends and allies.
With this issue resolved, the sharp de-
bate over the proposed sales can now be
put behind us. That debate has been
among friends who share the same goals.
All of us can now concentrate our full
attention on finding a sound and just basis
for permanent peace.
The United States will continue to play
a responsible and active role in the search
for peace in the Middle East. We will in-
tensify our effort to help the parties nar-
row their differences. Our own national
interest and moral values permit us to do
no less.
915
