Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 8
PRESIDENT SADAT. My dear friend,
President Carter, Mrs. Carter, we have
spent really a very charming weekend to-
gether in Camp David-President Carter,
Rosalynn, me, and Jihan. And to be frank,
I must tell you this: I was elated when
I received the invitation from President
Carter to visit with him here in such a
precise moment like we were in. And I
came disheartened, discouraged.
We had long talks in Camp David, and
then after that, we have completed it in
Washington, here in the house with Secre-
tary Vance. And I must tell you this before
I leave: I shall return today back to my
country with much more perseverance for
reaching peace through the efforts that we
have started together, the United States
and Egypt since November '73, and which
by God's will, we shall attain all our tar-
gets in the establishment of peace, perma-
nent peace in the area.
We have agreed together, President
Carter and me, to keep in close contact
like we have been before; and let me tell
you this again: I must express my deep
gratitude to President Carter, Rosalynn,
and to all the American people for the
very warm welcome and hospitality and
generosity that was accorded to us.
And I promise you, the American peo-
ple whom I was always and shall be proud
of the sentiments that they have shown
towards me, let me say this to them, I shall
never fail
you. Like I told my friend, Pres-
ident Carter, I shall never fail you.
May God protect you. May God protect
my dear friend, President Carter, Rosa-
lynn, and his family.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:22 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Visit of President Sadat of Egypt
White House Statement on the Final Meeting.
February 8, 1978
President Carter and President Sadat
had a final meeting this afternoon.
President Carter and President Sadat
continued their talks today in the same
spirit of friendship and openness which
characterized their stay together at Camp
David over the weekend. The hours they
have spent together, both alone and with
their advisers, have provided the essen-
tial opportunity both sought for a relaxed
and thorough review of the Middle East
situation. They have concluded that the
mutual trust and understanding between
them, which were reinforced by these
meetings, will be extremely useful in help-
ing to maintain momentum toward their
common goal of peace in the Middle East.
During the course of their meetings
over the past 5 days, President Carter re-
affirmed to President Sadat the broad
principles which underlie United States
participation in the search for that peace:
-The United States will remain faith-
ful to its historic commitments to the se-
curity of Israel and to the right of every
state in the area to live in peace within
secure and recognized boundaries.
-Helping the parties achieve a ne-
gotiated comprehensive settlement of the
Middle East conflict remains of highest
importance in American policy, and
President Carter will spare no effort in
seeking ways to move the peace process
forward.
-A peace settlement must go beyond
the mere termination of belligerency. It
must provide for the establishment of
normal peaceful relations between Israel
and its neighbors.
-The peace settlement should be com-
prehensive and should be embodied in
291
