Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
try so long as I can remember. And it's a
basis for consultation in a private way be-
tween myself and my dear and good close
friend, Jim Callaghan, not only in the
matters I've described but many others
that are of common interest to our people.
Jim, we're proud to have you here, and
your meeting has been very helpful to us.
I believe that our countries now, in prep-
aration for the economic summit, can
join together in a much more harmonious
and effective way to bring about better
economic circumstances, not only in our
own nations but throughout the world.
Thank you very much.
fecting the capital flows. And yet we are
not in the grip of economic forces that we
are unable to control. If all of us to-
gether-certainly the major countries—
want to apply the political effort to im-
proving the situation, it can be done.
And what I've been happy to find, what
I expected to find and have found, is that
the President of the leading nation of the
Western World not only recognizes this
but is also ready to see collective action
taken, leading up to the summit in Bonn
in which we can consult and can coordi-
nate our efforts as far as possible.
I hope I'm not abusing your hospitality,
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President, Jimmy, if you will allow me to say this, if
and ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you very much for your hospital-
ity, Mr. President, which we've enjoyed,
and for the conversations.
We, like you, have been thinking about
these economic problems for some time,
and the thing that has obsessed me, hav-
ing lived through this now for 20 years or
more, at fairly close hand, is that inter-
nationally, we've lost the guidelines which
used to set boundaries for our action. And
we're cast adrift, almost, in some ways,
and there is less united action; we're all
acting individually as countries much
more than I can recall.
There are reasons for this which I will
not enumerate. They have developed since
the end of the Bretton Woods era, really.
And the result is that I think there is a
greater responsibility thrust upon the
world leaders now to try, in the absence
of the old guidelines, to find collective and
concerted action that will restore con-
fidence in our capacity to use the human
and material resources of the world in a
much more efficient and able way than
we've been doing over recent years.
The level of unemployment is far too
high; the growth rates in the world are
too low. The amount of aid that is going
to other countries is too small and is af-
I
say how much I admire the energy con-
servation program that you've put for-
ward. I don't know whether the Ameri-
can people recognize just how significant
and important this program is to restoring
economic health, not only to the United
States but to the rest of us in the Western
World. It is of vital significance, and I'm
very gratified indeed that you have man-
aged to get so far. And I certainly hope
that you'll be able to carry it through.
I think all of us must support you in
the sense that we must, too, have our own
conservation programs. We can't allow
you to do it all. But of course, you are by
far the biggest user of energy in this sense,
and therefore it's essential that you do
have to bear the brunt of it. But I would
like to say that I hope very much that the
statesmanship that the United States ad-
ministration is showing can be carried
through in this particular direction.
If I may add just one other thing:
We've got to coordinate our actions far
more than we've done up to the moment,
and we have got to relate them, whatever
we are doing in the next few months, to
the need to get the world economies mov-
ing together again.
I think what is true is that the actions
that we take individually are less impor-
565
