Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
The Director shall take into account the
statutory functions of the other concerned
Executive agencies.
SEC. 4. The Director of the Interna-
tional Communication Agency, with the
assistance of the Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, shall prepare and
submit to the President the reports which
the President is to transmit to the Con-
gress pursuant to Section 108(b) of the
Mutual Educational and Cultural Ex-
change Act of 1961, as amended (22
U.S.C. 2458).
SEC. 5. The functions vested in the
President by Sections 108 (c) and 108(d)
of the Mutual Educational and Cultural
Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, are
delegated to the Director of the Interna-
tional Communication Agency; because,
(a) such a delegation is in the interest of
the purposes expressed in that Act and the
efficient administration of the programs
undertaken pursuant thereto, (b) the Di-
rector is an appropriate official to perform
those functions, and (c) those functions
are not now delegated to any other of-
ficer of the Government.
SEC. 6. The Director of the Interna-
tional Communication Agency shall be
the principal adviser to the President, the
National Security Council, and the Sec-
retary of State on international informa-
tional, educational, and cultural matters.
As such, the Director shall provide advice
within the policy formulation activities of
the National Security Council when such
matters are considered. The Director shall
ensure that the senior official of the Agen-
cy at each diplomatic mission provides ad-
vice to the Chief of Mission on such mat-
ters. The scope of the Director's advice
shall include assessments of the impact of
actual and proposed United States foreign
policy decisions on public opinion abroad.
SEC. 7. The records, property, person-
nel, and unexpended balances of ap-
propriations, available or to be made
available, which relate to the functions
transferred or reassigned, or redelegated
as provided in this Order, are hereby
transferred to the Director of the Inter-
national Communication Agency.
SEC. 8. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make such
determinations, issue such orders, and take
all actions, necessary or appropriate to ef-
fectuate the transfers or reassignments
provided in this Order, including the
transfer of funds, records, property, and
personnel.
SEC. 9. This Order shall be effective
on April 1, 1978.
The White House,
March 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:14 p.m., March 28, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on March 28.
Citizens Band Radio
Transceivers
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a
Report. March 27, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with section 203 (b) (1)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth my
decision to modify the import relief rec-
ommendation of three Commissioners of
the U.S. International Trade Commission
(USITC) by proclaiming a moderate
tariff increase for Citizens Band (CB)
Radio Transceivers and giving the rea-
sons for my decision and why the import
607
