Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 12
It's clear that our willingness to curb the
enormous American national appetite for
imported oil will be a consideration, for
instance, in future OPEC oil prices.
As a nation, we are increasing our de-
mands for foreign oil. We may have con-
servation forced on us by unexpected and
rapid increases in oil prices in the future.
Our consumers and our industries will
pay more and more to foreign countries,
and with those dollars that go overseas
we are, in effect, exporting American jobs.
In Paris and in Brussels, our own allies
expressed concern about whether we can
and will enact strong energy legislation.
If our own economy is not strong, if our
strength is being sapped by excessive im-
ports, then we can't provide the kind of
leadership and stability on which the eco-
nomic well-being of the Western de-
mocracies rests so heavily.
The United States has had and is still
faced with a very large trade deficit
which has led recently to exchange mar-
ket disorders and exchange rate specula-
tion. It's clear that our heavy dependence
on imported oil is a main part of our trade
problem and that our failure to adopt a
comprehensive energy program has badly
weakened confidence in our ability to deal
with that problem.
Almost every foreign leader stressed the
importance of our energy program in
terms of our responsibilities for interna-
tional monetary order and the mainte-
nance of the integrity of the dollar.
We all recognize that while the energy
program will not reduce our oil imports
overnight, that it will reduce our depend-
ence on foreign oil over the long pull
and also permanently. It would improve
our trade position, our national economy,
the strength of the dollar in a fundamen-
tal way.
I believe that we do have the resolve
and the national will to deal with the en-
ergy problem. The debate in the Congress
has been long and divisive and arduous.
It has at times tried the patience of all
of us. And delay has deferred action, un-
fortunately, on a number of other impor-
tant national priorities.
But when we do succeed and I be-
lieve we have an excellent chance to suc-
ceed early in this session-we will have
accomplished something in which we can
take pride, not just here at home but
before the other nations of the world as
well.
Thank you. I'd like to answer any ques-
tions you might have.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, in connection with
energy, has there been any kind of a com-
promise reached on natural gas pricing?
Do you think you'll get an energy pro-
gram? And if you don't, what unilateral
steps will you take? And I have a fol-
lowup.
THE PRESIDENT. A followup to all three
of those questions?
Well, there was a substantial amount of
progress made by the conference commit-
tees just before Christmas. I think that
many of the consumer-oriented House
Members were willing to accept a com-
promise that was acceptable to many of
the Senators. The problem has been and
still is that there are nine Senators for and
nine Senators against any sort of proposal
that has been made up until this time.
Dr. James Schlesinger has been out on
the west coast to meet with the chairman
of the committee, Senator Scoop Jackson.
I have talked to Senator Jackson on the
phone. And he's told me that he has a re-
determination to exert his own leadership
and profound influence in bringing about
a resolution of the present deadlock.
My guess is that the Congress is begin-
ning to realize-many of them have long
55
