Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
heard around the world. Something mo-
mentous happened here last March-not
because any party in particular won or
lost, but rather, I think, because the larg-
est electorate on Earth freely and wisely
chose its leaders at the polls. In this sense,
democracy itself was the victor in your
country.
Together, we understand that in the
field of politics, freedom is the engine of
progress. India and America share prac-
tical experience with democracy.
We in the United States are proud of
having achieved political union among a
people whose ancestors come from all
over the world. Our system strives to re-
spect the rights of a great variety of mi-
norities, including, by the way, a growing
and productive group of families from
your own country, India.
But the challenge of political union is
even greater here in your own country.
In the diversity of languages, religions,
political opinions, and racial and cultural
groups, India is comparable to the con-
tinent of Europe, which has a total pop-
ulation about the same size as your own.
Yet India has forged her vast mosaic of
humanity into a single great nation that
has weathered many challenges to sur-
vival both as a nation and as a democracy.
This is surely one of the greatest political
achievements of this century or any other
century.
India and the United States are at one
in recognizing the right of free speech-
which Mahatma Gandhi called "the
foundation-stone of Swaraj" or self-gov-
ernment-and the rights of academic
freedom, trade union organization, free-
dom of the press, and freedom of religion.
All these rights are recognized in inter-
national covenants. There are few gov-
ernments which do not at least pay lip
service to them. And yet, to quote Gandhi
once more, "No principle exists in the
abstract. Without its concrete application
it has no meaning.'
In India, as in the United States, these
rights do have concrete application, and
they have real meaning, too. It is to pre-
serve these rights that both our nations
have chosen similar political paths to the
development of our resources and to the
betterment of the life of our people.
There are differences between us in the
degree to which economic growth is pur-
sued through public enterprise on one
hand and private enterprise on the other
hand. But more important than these dif-
ferences is our shared belief that the po-
litical structure in which development
takes place should be democratic and
should respect the human rights of each
and every citizen in our countries.
Our two nations also agree that human
needs are inseparable from human
rights; that while civil and political lib-
erties are good in themselves, they are
much more useful and much more mean-
ingful in the lives of people to whom
physical survival is not a matter of daily
anxiety.
To have sufficient food to live and to
work; to be adequately sheltered and
clothed; to live in a healthy environment
and to be healed when sick; to learn and
to be taught these rights, too, must be
the concerns of our governments. To meet
these ends orderly economic growth
is crucial. And if the benefits of growth
are to reach those whose need is greatest,
social justice is critical as well.
India is succeeding in this historic task.
Your economic challenges are no secret,
and their seriousness is well understood in
the West.
But what is far less well understood is
the degree to which Indian social and eco-
nomic policy has been such a success. In
the single generation since your independ-
ence was gained, extraordinary progress
has been made.
6
