Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 13
dorsed a more effective role for the
United Nations in dealing with interna-
tional disarmament issued and underlined
their active support for the Special Ses-
sion on Disarmament of the United Na-
tions General Assembly.
6. To work toward a more just and
equitable international economic order,
which should promote the accelerated
economic development of developing
countries; and to intensify dialogue and
cooperation among all countries, directed
toward solving major economic problems,
on the basis of the principles of equality,
equity and mutual benefit.
7. To encourage efforts aimed at a just,
comprehensive and lasting peaceful set-
tlement in the Middle East, based on
Israel's withdrawal from territories occu-
pied as a result of the 1967 war, respect
for legitimate rights of the Palestinian
people, and insurance of the independ-
ence, territorial integrity and security of
all states in the region. To this end, they
expressed themselves in favor of nego-
tiations among all the interested parties
for solving the Middle East situation, with
appropriate representation of the Pales-
tinian people.
8. To support the legitimate aspirations
of the African peoples for peace, freedom
and independence. They reaffirmed the
inalienable right of the peoples of Zim-
babwe and Namibia to sovereignty and
independent development, and the neces-
sity of ensuring, as soon as possible, the
transfer of power to the African majority,
in the spirit of pertinent United Nations
resolutions. They also expressed deep
concern about the South African policy of
apartheid and racial discrimination and
stood for the abolition of these practices.
9. To strengthen the role of the United
Nations in the maintenance and consoli-
dation of world peace, in the develop-
ment of cooperation among all nations,
and in furtherance of the principles of
international law in the relations among
states, through reforming and restructur-
ing the UN system in order to make it
stronger and more effective; and to
strengthen cooperation between their two
countries within the United Nations and
other international organizations and
conferences.
IV. The two Presidents expressed their
conviction that friendly relations between
the United States of America and the
Socialist Republic of Romania, based on
equality, mutual respect and due consid-
eration for their respective interests, serve
the cause of world peace, security and
cooperation. They reaffirmed their com-
mitment to expand and deepen, both
through diplomatic channels and meet-
ings at all levels, the consultations, con-
tacts and exchanges that have become an
important and lasting element of their
cooperation.
Done in Washington on the thirteenth
of April, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States of
America
NICOLAE CEAUSESCU
President of the Socialist Republic of
Romania
United States Ambassador
to South Africa
Nomination of William B. Edmondson.
April 13, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate William B. Edmond-
son, of Peru, Nebr., to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States to the Republic of
South Africa. He would replace William
G. Bowdler, who will return to Wash-
ington to serve as Director of the Bureau
745
