Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 23
afternoon, and I share that pride.
One of the consistent efforts of my own
administration since I've been in office
has been to improve the quality of serv-
ice that our Federal Government provides
to the American people. Every one of us
here and every one of our associates and
fellow workers throughout the Govern-
ment has the job we have because the
American people want and expect us to
serve their needs and to serve them well.
We are here for that purpose and for that
purpose only, from the President of the
United States on down.
The American people are not happy
about the level of service that they have
been receiving from their Government. I
find that dissatisfaction every time I
travel around the country. And it comes
as no surprise to me. I know that there
are many dedicated people in this Gov-
ernment who share my belief that Gov-
ernment performance can and should be
improved.
The most effective and fundamental
improvement that we can make is to re-
form the civil service system, to make
it truly a merit system that rewards
achievement and responds to human
needs. I took the first and major step to-
ward that in March when I sent to the
Congress the first part of the civil service
reform proposals. I'm very pleased at the
prompt attention that Congress has given
to this legislation. Committees in both
the House and Senate have held exten-
sive hearings already. The Senate began
its markup this week, and we expect the
House to begin quite soon.
Today I'm sending to the Congress
the second and the final part of the civil
service reform proposals, the reorganiza-
tion plan itself. It creates an Office of
Personnel Management to replace our
antiquated and unfair hiring practices
with the same kind of modern personnel
management that is routine in any effi-
cient, private, industrial organization.
It creates an independent Merit Sys-
tems Protection Board to safeguard the
legitimate rights of Federal employees
and to give active assistance and support
to those employees who "blow the
whistle" on illegal or improper activities.
It also creates a Federal Labor Rela-
tions Authority to provide a fairer and a
more efficient way of handling labor and
management disputes within the Gov-
ernment.
Congress has 60 days now to con-
sider this reorganization plan before it
takes effect. We've worked very closely
with the Congress, and I'm confident that
it deserves congressional support. And I
think we will look back on this afternoon
as the beginning of a very significant
chapter in the improvement of our Gov-
ernment.
We have some people here today, some
very distinguished guests whose personal
accomplishments serve as a reminder of
how much difference one person's efforts
can make, even in a system such as we
have now that is sometimes not condu-
cive to excellence.
Each of these 11 guests is a Federal
employee who has made exceptional con-
tributions toward improving govern-
mental economy and effectiveness. I've
been told that if you add up the savings
to the taxpayers brought about by just
these 11 people, it comes to more than
$13,500,000. And I have signed congratu-
latory letters to more than 550 other
Federal employees for outstanding con-
tributions of a like manner.
They did it through personal imagina-
tion, through personal diligence, through
personal initiative. We have some awards
to present them which they truly deserve.
Let me say that the point I want to
make this afternoon-and I think all of
them here with me would agree—that in-
stead of giving awards once a year on
951
