Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
Services and the National Security Coun-
cil on the implementation of this Order;
(f) review all agency implementing
regulations and agency guidelines for
systematic declassification review. The
Director shall require any regulation or
guideline to be changed if it is not con-
sistent with this Order or implementing
directives. Any such decision by the Di-
rector may be appealed to the National
Security Council. The agency regulation
or guideline shall remain in effect until
the appeal is decided or until one year
from the date of the Director's decision,
whichever occurs first.
(g) exercise case-by-case classification
authority in accordance with Section 1-
205 and review requests for original clas-
sification authority from agencies or offi-
cials not granted original classification
authority under Section 1-2 of this
Order; and
(h) have the authority to conduct on-
site reviews of the information security
program of each agency that handles
classified information and to require of
each agency such reports, information,
and other cooperation as necessary to ful-
fill his responsibilities. If such reports, in-
spection, or access to specific categories of
classified information would pose an ex-
ceptional national security risk, the af-
fected agency head may deny access. The
Director may appeal denials to the Na-
tional Security Council. The denial of
access shall remain in effect until the ap-
peal is decided or until one year from the
date of the denial, whichever occurs first.
5-3. Interagency Information Security
Committee.
5-301. There is established an Inter-
agency Information Security Committee
which shall be chaired by the Director
and shall be comprised of representatives
of the Secretaries of State, Defense, Treas-
ury, and Energy, the Attorney General,
the Director of Central Intelligence, the
National Security Council, the Domestic
Policy Staff, and the Archivist of the
United States.
5-302. Representatives of other agen-
cies may be invited to meet with the
Committee on matters of particular in-
terest to those agencies.
5-303. The Committee shall meet at
the call of the Chairman or at the request
of a member agency and shall advise the
Chairman on implementation of this
order.
5-4. General Responsibilities.
5-401. A copy of any information se-
curity regulation and a copy of any guide-
line for systematic declassification review
which has been adopted pursuant to this
Order or implementing directives, shall
be submitted to the Information Secu-
rity Oversight Office. To the extent prac-
ticable, such regulations and guidelines
should be unclassified.
5-402. Unclassified regulations that
establish agency information security
policy and unclassified guidelines for sys-
tematic declassification review shall be
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
5-403. Agencies with original classifi-
cation authority shall promulgate guides
for security classification that will facili-
tate the identification and uniform classi-
fication of information requiring protec-
tion under the provisions of this Order.
5-404. Agencies which originate or
handle classified information shall:
(a) designate a senior agency official
to conduct an active oversight program
to ensure effective implementation of this
Order;
(b) designate a senior agency official
to chair an agency committee with au-
thority to act on all suggestions and com-
plaints with respect to the agency's ad-
ministration of the information security
program;
1205
