June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
brought into a deadlock or perpetuated a
deadlock on Cyprus.
So, we've tried it; it didn't work. And
my guess is that we will continue, we and
the other NATO Allies, to include Tur-
key in all the plans-we will give them
adequate supplies for their own defense
within the capabilities of our nations and
in compliance with the law.
My hope and my expectations are that
the Congress will remove the embargo
this year.
RIGHT TO PRIVACY
Q. Mr. President, on May 24, your
Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Civiletti,
urged Congress to pass a law that would
require an American citizen to go to court
to protect the privacy of his own personal
records, and he said that to expect the
Government to show reasonable cause to
believe that a crime was involved was
"just not realistic."
Now, as a leader in a world campaign
to expand human rights throughout the
world, how do you justify your adminis-
tration's trying to punch holes into indi-
vidual rights here at home?
THE PRESIDENT. My analysis of the at-
titude of the Attorney General is that he
has been a foremost proponent of
pro-
tecting individual rights. He has never
deviated from this commitment so far as
I know. I'm not familiar with the partic-
ular case to which you refer, and I'm
hesitant to comment on it without being
more thoroughly familiar with it. But if
you would provide it to the Press Secre-
tary, I'll be glad to try to answer it more
definitively.
WILMINGTON 10
Q. Mr. President, Congressman Don
Edwards has suggested that the adminis-
tration file a friend of the court brief for
the Wilmington 10, since no action has
been taken on the part of the administra-
tion. Do you plan to follow up with a
court brief, and if not, why?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. As you
recognize, the case has been in the past
in the Federal court. My understanding
is that this group through their attorneys
have now filed in the Federal court for
some relief. And I think the Attorney
General in the past, the Justice Depart-
ment has inquired into the proper treat-
ment of these defendants. But I don't
believe that the Attorney General has any
intention that certainly that he's relayed
to me of joining in as a party to the
Wilmington 10's application in court.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR
NEW YORK CITY
Q. Mr. President, tomorrow the Senate
Banking Committee will begin to con-
sider the proposal you made to provide
long-term Federal loans for New York
City. How do you feel about the state-
ments by some Senators that the banks
and the unions in the city have not done
enough and actually should be required
to do more as a condition for further
Federal aid, and about the apprehension
by some Senators that this would allow
excess spending by other cities?
The President. My own belief is that
the requirements placed on New York
City, through their own volition and also
because of the requests of the Secretary
of the Treasury, Mr. Blumenthal, are ade-
quate. And the House of Representatives
considered this matter very carefully and
voted with a margin, I think, of more than
90 votes to go along with both short-term
financing and also long-term financing.
My own belief is that the long-term
financing is preferable. This would not
endanger the Federal Government at all.
We would not lose a penny on the guar-
1098
