Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 30
investigation of a petition for import
relief filed by the Stainless Steel Flatware
Manufacturers Association, Washington,
D.C., on behalf of the domestic industry
producing knives, forks, spoons, and
ladles, with stainless steel handles, pro-
vided for in items 650.08, 650.09, 650.10,
650.12, 650.38, 650.39, 650.40, 650.42,
650.54, 650.55, and, if included in sets,
651.75 of the Tariff Schedules of the
United States.
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that pro-
vision of import relief is not in the na-
tional economic interest.
ing to control inflation, these added costs
are unacceptable.
Employment losses since 1975 have
been small and many of the unemployed
workers are currently receiving trade ad-
justment assistance benefits. The USITC
estimates that overall domestic produc-
tion of flatware should gradually increase
even in the absence of relief and this
should have a stabilizing effect on the
number of jobs in the industry. Further,
expedited consideration of adjustment
assistance petitions from workers, firms,
and communities is still in effect as a
result of the Presidential determination
on the 1976 import relief case.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
The imposition of import relief would
not be an effective means to promote ad-
justment in the industry. The dominant
firm in the domestic industry currently [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
utilizes the most advanced manufactur-
ing equipment and, along with a number
of smaller firms, should remain profitable.
Most major domestic producers of flat-
ware currently rely on imports in a sub-
stantial and increasing degree to supple-
ment the particular product lines in
which they specialize and this trend is
expected to continue. Import relief in the
form of a tariff rate quota has been in
effect for 13 out of the past 20 years in
order to facilitate adjustment in this in-
dustry and additional relief would be
inappropriate. Providing import relief
again would be inconsistent with the in-
ternationally accepted concept that
concept that
import relief in escape clause cases should
be of a temporary nature.
Import relief would substantially in-
crease costs to consumers, have an ad-
verse impact on consumer demand, and
discriminate against low-income pur-
chasers. Consumer costs may increase
even further if the moderating influence
that low price imports have on the prices
of domestically produced flatware is
eliminated. In a time when we are striv-
11:07 a.m., July 6, 1978]
International Energy Exposition
in Knoxville, Tennessee
Announcement of a Federal Interagency
Effort To Assist the City. June 30, 1978
The President has directed Jack Wat-
son, Assistant to the President and Chair-
man of the Interagency Coordinating
Council, to organize an interagency
effort to assist Knoxville, Tenn., with
its proposed International Energy
Exposition.
In announcing the interagency effort,
the President said, "It has become ap-
parent that the planning process for
Expo 82 has reached the stage that high-
level Federal coordination is appropriate.
In line with my commitment to the suc-
cess of this international project and my
strong support for interagency coopera-
tion on programs which have national as
well as local import, I am urging the In-
teragency Coordinating Council to begin
1217
