May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
there are writing materials in there, and
sand to blot the ink, and quill pens. That
was designed and built and all carried
around the country by Thomas Jefferson,
as he made trips like this to the then-ex-
isting country.
We've had some great leaders and some
great Presidents who faced much more
difficult questions than I do today. We
are in a time of peace, and it's a good op-
portunity for us to reexamine what we
are and what we stand for and to pull
ourselves back together and to strengthen
our country once again. So, I don't claim
by any means to be the best person who's
lived there. I'm not.
The second part of your question is
one that's very difficult to answer. There
are times in every young person's life
when you have to make a decision on
whether to buy a home that is acknowl-
edged to be very expensive, or whether
you want to continue to rent a home that
might be a little bit less expensive per
month. And the quality of the kind of
home you buy is also a decision for you to
make.
I lived in 15 houses before I was able
to own a home. When I moved to Plains
from the Navy in 1953, I didn't have any
money, and I lived in a concrete block,
low-rent, government housing project. I
only paid $31 a month, which is all the
government determined that I could pay.
And I lived in three more houses before
I built my present home in Plains. So,
that judgment of when to buy and when
to continue to rent and how expensive the
quality of a home is one that you'll have
to make.
We are trying to eliminate some of the
disharmonies and obstacles that exist for
young men and women to own their own
homes. We are increasing substantially
the effort in the Housing and Urban
Development program to make homes
available. And since I've been in office,
not because of me, but because of the in-
clination of the American people and
Congress action, we've had a very strong
homebuilding program.
Last year more than 2 million new
homes were built. Last night I spent the
night in Portland with a young family,
Paul and Janet Olson. They were living
in a home that they bought a few years
ago for $15,000. It was in a dilapidated
part of town, and they bought it at a
sacrifice, because the area was disgrace-
ful rather than a source of pride. But
other people around them bought homes,
and using government funds like the 312
program and others they refurbished
their own home, and now it's really a
showplace.
He's a man of moderate income. He
has two small children, 5 and 3 years old,
but now his home is one that Good
Housekeeping or Better Homes and
Gardens could go in and take photo-
graphs of as a kind of a showplace.
They've done the work themselves. So,
there are many options now under Fed-
eral programs.
The other thing that's happened is that
yesterday, just to illustrate, I was in the
Watts area, where in 1965 the whole
area was destroyed. It's been rejuvenated.
There's a new tone of confidence and
commitment among those black people
who live there-almost entirely black or
Spanish-speaking as well. There's the
highest
highest proportion of homeowners in
Watts now than any other black commu-
nity in the Nation. And a lot of it's been
brought about by new kinds of govern-
ment help.
When I campaigned around the coun-
try, one of the common things I heard in
the ghetto areas of our Nation's cities, was
redlining, where lending institutions,
banks, savings and loans would say that
"In this neighborhood or on this block no
loans will be made, no matter what
870
