Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
trial attorney with the National Labor
Relations Board in 1950. In 1951 he was
law clerk to Illinois Supreme Court Jus-
tice Walter V. Schaffer.
Geller rejoined the FCC in 1952 as an
attorney adviser in the Broadcast Bureau
and later served in the Office of Opinions
and Review. In 1955 he became a trial
attorney in the Office of the General
Counsel.
From 1957 to 1961, Geller was a trial
attorney in the Appellate Section of the
Antitrust Division at the Justice Depart-
ment. In 1961 he returned to the FCC as
Associate General Counsel. From 1962 to
1964, he was Deputy General Counsel,
and from 1964 to 1970, he was General
Counsel. From 1970 to 1973, he was Spe-
cial Assistant to the Chairman of the FCC.
From 1973 to 1975, Geller did research
on communications at the Rand Corp. in
Washington, and since 1975 he has been a
communications fellow with the Aspen
Institute Program on Communications
and Society. He is also a consultant to the
National News Council and the Rand
Corp.
Geller has taught at the Georgetown
University School of Law and the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Law School. He is
the author of numerous articles.
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Progress Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
March 23, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94-104, this
report describes the progress that has
been made during the past sixty days
toward a negotiated settlement on
Cyprus.
In my last such report to the Congress,
submitted on January 20, I outlined the
continuing efforts that we and other na-
tions have been making, in both bilateral
and international meetings, to promote an
early resumption of productive negotia-
tions between the two Cypriot communi-
ties. I stressed that resolute action was still
required, but still expressed the belief that
we were moving in the right direction.
Since that time there have been devel-
opments of potential
opments of potential significance for
Cyprus. Very shortly after his assumption
of office on January 5, Turkish Prime
Minister Ecevit publicly announced his
intention to deal promptly and decisively
with the outstanding foreign policy issues
confronting his nation, prime among
them being Cyprus. Ecevit acknowledged
that a Cyprus settlement would be in
Turkey's own best interests. "We want to
see a rapid solution in Cyprus," he de-
clared in a January 9 interview, "not be-
cause the U.S. or other friendly countries
want it, but because it will be for the bene-
fit of all Cyprus and for the benefit of
peace in the region." Subsequently, in
both public statements and private con-
versations, Prime Minister Ecevit said
that he hoped negotiations between the
communities would soon resume, and he
declared that the Turkish side would sub-
mit concrete proposals on both the con-
stitutional and territorial aspects of the
issue.
United Nations Secretary General
Waldheim visited Ankara, Athens and
Nicosia between January 8 and 18. The
Secretary General was apparently encour-
aged by his conversations with President
Kyprianou, Prime Ministers Ecevit and
Caramanlis, and Turkish Cypriot leader
Denktash, and afterwards said that it
might be possible to reconvene the stalled
Cyprus intercommunal talks sometime
early in the spring.
555
