Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to use a 150 percent declining balance
method; new low-income housing will re-
main eligible for a 200 percent declining
balance method until 1983, and for 150
percent thereafter. Needed investment in
industrial plants will be encouraged by an
extension of the investment credit, as ex-
plained below. The investment credit is
a more efficient and straight-forward
means to provide a tax subsidy for such
construction.
(4) Taxation of Deferred Annuities.
Another flourishing tax shelter gimmick
is the deferred annuity contract. Current-
ly, a person can generally invest in an
annuity contract and postpone taxation
on the interest build-up until the annuity
is actually received. Although originally
designed primarily to provide a safe flow
of retirement income, the deferred an-
nuity contract is now used commonly as
a convenient tax dodge for a wide range
of investment opportunities. The shelter
benefits are aptly described by the promo-
tional literature:
"How To Postpone Taxes Legally And
Earn Interest On Uncle Sam's Money
With An Investment That
Never Goes Down, Always Goes Up,
And Is Guaranteed Against Loss."
I recommend that this tax abuse be
eliminated. Under my proposal, the earn-
ings of most deferred annuities will be
taxed currently to the purchaser. How-
ever, in order that an individual may still
use a deferred annuity with guaranteed
interest as a means to provide retirement
income, the proposal will allow each per-
son to designate a single contract, con-
tributions to which may not exceed $1,000
annually, as a contract that will remain
eligible for tax deferral. Also unaffected
will be the tax treatment of qualified em-
ployee annuities.
(5) Classification of Nominal Partner-
ships as Corporations for Tax Purposes.
In many cases, tax shelter schemes can
offer the desired tax benefits to investors
only if the shelter vehicle is organized as
a partnership rather than a corporation.
At the same time, limited partnerships can
now provide traditional non-tax attributes
of a corporation, such as limited personal
liability, centralized management, and
transferability of interests without sacrific-
ing partnership tax benefits.
Promoters should not obtain the non-
tax attributes of a corporation for their
shelters while using technicalities to avoid
corporate tax treatment. I recommend
that new limited partnerships with more
than 15 limited partners be treated as
corporations for tax purposes; however,
partnerships engaged primarily in housing
activities will be excepted from this classi-
fication rule.
(6) Tax Audit of Partnerships. Tax
shelter partnerships are not themselves
subject to the tax assessment mechanism
of the Internal Revenue Service; there-
fore, each individual partner must be
audited separately even though the same
substantive determinations may be in-
volved. I recommend that legislation be
enacted to permit a partnership to be
treated as an entity for the purpose of de-
termining tax issues. Tax shelters based on
illegitimate deductions should not be per-
mitted to succeed merely because of the
difficulties involved in conducting an IRS
examination of their activities.
Termination of Alternative Tax for
Capital Gains
The wages of most workers are fully
subject to tax at the rates contained in the
published tax tables. But persons whose
income arises from the sale of assets such
as stock or land generally receive preferred
treatment; a deduction for long-term
capital gains has the effect of taxing these
gains at a rate that is one-half of the rate
for ordinary income. This preference re-
168
