Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 6
We are prepared to work with the
Community in a wide variety of ways, in
order:
-to promote the economic growth of
nations so as to control inflation, re-
duce unemployment, and achieve
monetary stability;
-to reach a rapid and successful con-
clusion to the multilateral trade
negotiations, and thus to expand in-
ternational trade, create more jobs
in all countries, and help us all resist
protectionist pressures;
-to work creatively toward mutually
beneficial relations with the develop-
ing nations;
-to cooperate in providing a role for
nuclear technology in meeting our
energy needs, without hazarding our
children's future through the threat
of nuclear proliferation; and
-to find answers together to social and
economic problems facing each of
our societies.
As I said in Paris 2 days ago, we must
use the tools of shared freedom to in-
crease the choices and opportunities in
our economic system.
We can share our experience in social
development-in education, health care,
social services, the organization and man-
agement of factory and farm.
As the world's largest trading unit, the
Community shares with us a clear interest
in a successful conclusion to the multilat-
eral trade negotiations. They are progress-
ing well, though much remains to be
done.
I welcome the success of the partici-
pating nations in reaching the goal set last
May in London: substantial progress by
the end of 1977. What has been achieved
already should enable the negotiations to
end this year. Speed is important if these
negotiations are to improve the world
trading system and remove pressure for
protectionism.
We need a broad package of agree-
ments, with major reductions in tariffs
and nontariff barriers, and with provi-
sions for agriculture.
We know that each country will face
problems of transition to a freer trading
system. But those are a small price to pay
for the benefits of more open trade. And
they are small, too, in comparison to the
danger of protectionism if we fail to reach
a comprehensive agreement.
Our nations also share concern for de-
veloping comprehensive energy programs.
Two months ago, I postponed my visit
here to Brussels in order to do everything
possible to enact an energy program in
the United States. My country must
waste less energy and develop alternative
sources of supply. As soon as I return, I
will resume work on this crucial legisla-
tion.
I am confident that the United States
will soon be setting an example for re-
sponsible energy policy.
The European Community and the
United States also share a deep interest in
promoting relations with developing
countries, and our cooperation has led to
constructive results.
We must continue to work together to
draw these countries more fully into the
global economy. They too must be able to
share more equitably in the benefits and
responsibilities of global economic prog-
ress and to play an appropriate role in
making global economic decisions.
We in the United States also welcome
the growing political and economic role
of the Community beyond Western Eu-
rope. The role of the Community con-
tributes vitally to reaching goals we share.
Most recently, I have been particularly
pleased by the close cooperation between
us-and by the firm leadership shown by
35
