Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
defense treaties between ourselves and
Turkey, ourselves and Greece. They've not
yet been concluded finally by Greece,
Turkey, and the Congress.
I would hope that if we could make
major progress toward a Turkey-Greece
settlement of the Cyprus issue, using the
local administrators there working with
Turkey and Greece, that we could pro-
ceed to bring Greece and Turkey back into
NATO.
So, we're doing all we can. I think that
there's a limit, though, to what the United
States can do, because the Turks and
Greeks are highly independent people and
the right progress has already been made
now—the scheduling of direct talks be-
tween the heads of state in Turkey and
Greece.
that stand in a very strong way.
As President, you know, I favor, as
I said earlier, the prohibition against the
use of Federal funds for abortions, recog-
nizing that under the Constitution of the
United States as interpreted by the Su-
preme Court, States are authorized to
permit abortions under certain circum-
stances.
So, I do think that abortions are the
taking of a human life, and I have done
and will do all I can to minimize the need
for abortions.
I might say that there are things that
can be done to prevent an unwanted
birth an education program, the avail-
ability of contraceptives for those who be-
lieve in their use, family planning pro-
grams, more easy adoptions, and so forth.
Q. Okay, so as long as you do your best, And we are moving on those areas, too.
you'll win in 1980.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if we can get
that done, it will be a great step forward.
Thank you.
ABORTION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jerry
Thibodeau from Bangor. Do you believe
that abortion is the taking of human life;
if so, will you be taking any steps to
protect this vulnerable life?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. I have come
from a State and from a family which is
highly religious. Georgia and Texas had
the two very stringent antiabortion State
laws that were stricken down by the Su-
preme Court while I was Governor.
As soon as that was done, under my
leadership as Governor, Georgia passed
the strictest abortion law that was per-
missible under the Supreme Court ruling.
As you know, the ruling, in effect, said
that no State could prohibit abortions
during the first 13 weeks, and later in the
second and third trimesters that they
could prevent abortions. Georgia took
I might add one other sentence, and
that is that Joe Califano, who is the head
of HEW, is a very devout Catholic, as a
matter of fact—I happen to be a Baptist-
and his views on abortion, I believe, are
the same as those I've described as mine.
Q. Could I add one thing?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
Q. I think the effect of the Supreme
Court decision has been to legalize abor-
tion on demand for the full 9 months of
pregnancy, rather than just the first tri-
mester.
THE PRESIDENT. But the point I was
trying to make is that a State, if it wishes,
can prevent abortions in the second and
third trimesters. A State cannot prohibit
abortions, I think, in the first trimester.
That's what I understand about it.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Q. Mr. President, I'm Marie Urbanski
from Orono. We agree on one fact, at any
rate. I agree with you that life is unfair.
362
