Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
Q. Mr. President, I'm George G. Paul,
I work at the Veterans Administration
Hospital. On April 12, I wrote you a let-
ter giving you five constructive sugges-
tions: one, helping to stabilize the na-
tional economy; two, fighting poverty;
three, curing illiteracy; four, bringing
drug abuse to a standstill; five, other
dollar savings by the Federal Govern-
ment. Because of the time element, I will
dwell briefly on the former, helping to
stabilize the national economy.
Question: Is it possible to propose a 10-
percent surcharge on all fines of misde-
meanor court and felony cases? Last year
Spokane, with its 180,000 population,
grossed over $1 million in fines; 10 per-
cent of that would be over $100,000, or
60 cents per capita.
Using that as a yardstick, you could say
that with the national population of over
180 million, we could realize about $108
million. The end result would be a health-
ier nation, due to more money or less
crime—either way the Nation wins. As I
see it, the only opposition to this type of
program would be the chronic offenders.
What's your comment?
THE PRESIDENT. I wish that you would
give your mailing address to one of our
staff members, Stu Eizenstat, right over
here, so that he can send you a copy of
the speech that I made yesterday to the
Los Angeles Bar Association, where I cov-
ered some of those very points that you've
just reached.
One of the things that I did describe
is that just legal fees paid by corporations
last year amounted to $24 billion. A lot
of the legislation-I mean, a lot of the
litigation involved was unnecessary. And
in some of those lawsuits, they've been
dragging out 8, 9, 10 years. There was one
lawsuit that lasted 30 years, and as you
can well see, the people who were in-
volved in a lawsuit to begin with were
dead by the time the final decision was
made. That's 12 times as much as our
society spends on all local, State, and Fed-
eral courts.
So, bringing some quality into the en-
tire judicial system and crime control is
a very great commitment of my own ad-
ministration.
Whether to finance it out of a system
that you've described is something that I
have not addressed, but I will take your
recommendation and consider it very
carefully.
We were pleased last year to see the
overall crime rate drop for the first time
in many years. It dropped 4 percent. Per-
haps this is an omen of things to come.
One of the reasons that the crime rate
did drop, in my opinion, is the much
tighter control over the habit-forming
drugs that were coming into our country.
Under the leadership of Dr. Peter Bourne,
who heads up my drug abuse program
in the White House, we worked out an
agreement with the new President of
Mexico, López Portillo, to hold down the
production and the distribution in our
country of heroin derived from poppies
that were being grown in the mountain
areas of Mexico. López Portillo is com-
mitted to controlling this source of crime
in our country as much as I am. So, we
worked out with him a means to cut down
the opium smuggling into the United
States from Mexico by 90 percent. It
means now that the opium sold on our
city streets is much less pure. It's much
more expensive, and just that fact alone
has helped to cut down many of the vio-
lent crimes.
So, your recommendation that we use
money from the court system itself to fi-
nance a better criminal justice system is
a very good idea. But I would like for
you to give your name and address over
here so that we can give you a complete
873
