Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 2
that I will not only grant you wisdom, but
I will grant you the other blessings of life
as well."
Almost everyone in this room is a leader,
trusted by others, looked up to by others,
respected by others, influential among
others. And I pray that that doesn't give
us a sense of pride or exaltation or a sense
of self-satisfaction, but that it gives us a
sense of humility and that we turn to God
through prayer, so that we might better
serve those who have placed their faith in
us as we place our faith in God.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:23 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel. The annual event is sponsored by the
United States Senate and House prayer break-
fast groups.
White House Conference on
Balanced National Growth and
Economic Development
Remarks at the Closing Session of the
Conference. February 2, 1978
The first thing I would like to do
is to thank and to congratulate Chair-
man Jay Rockefeller and Juanita Kreps,
Senator Jennings Randolph, representing
the Congress, the leaders of the discussion
groups, and all of the 500 participants
who have earned unanimous congratula-
tions and accolades from everyone who
has expressed an opinion to me about this
Conference.
It's an easy thing to have a conference
concerning planning, growth, economic
development, and have it be either so con-
troversial that its purposes are lost, or so
sterile that its function comes to no avail.
You've avoided that.
I stand here as President of the greatest
country on Earth, with a background in
meetings of this kind. It's been an integral
part of my life, beginning at the local level
of government, going up to the White
House.
My first responsibility was to be the
chairman and the organizer of an eight-
county planning and development group
in deep southwest Georgia, at that time
the West Central Georgia Planning Com-
mission. I dealt with those rural counties
and with 30 small towns, the largest of
which was about 12,000, the smallest of
which was less than a hundred.
They were almost as diverse in nature
and in need, in motivation or spirit, as the
wide range represented here. And to give
them a chance to communicate and to
deal with common problems and to finally
discern the mutuality of purpose was an
inspiration to me.
We later organized the Georgian Plan-
ning Association. I was the first president
of it, when I didn't hold public office, and
I learned then throughout my own State
how deeply committed people were to the
need for dealing with change. Change has
come to the South and the many parts of
our Nation with a confrontation, reluc-
tance, fear, but then an acknowledgement
of the inevitability of it and a realization
of the benefits to be derived from it.
I decided to run for Governor, and my
first act was to organize what I called
Goals for Georgia. We had meetings
throughout the State, open meetings
whereby citizens could come and register
their complaints against the State govern-
ment, their frustrations and their ani-
mosities, their disappointments and their
hopes and dreams and suggestions, some
of which were quite beneficial. And we
put together in a clear and concise book
what Georgia hoped to accomplish in the
future 5, 10, 15, sometimes even 25
years. And almost every decision I made
in my 4 years as Governor was predicated
on and derived from those specific and
265
