May 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Industrial Innovation
Announcement of Establishment of an Inter-
agency Committee. May 11, 1978
The President announced today that
he has established an interagency com-
mittee to conduct a comprehensive re-
view of issues and problems related
to industrial innovation. Substantial
public involvement-including industry,
small business, labor, and consumers-is
planned.
Innovation provides a basis for the Na-
tion's economic growth. It is closely re-
lated to productivity and to the compet-
itiveness of U.S. products in domestic and
world markets. Efforts to enhance in-
novation in industry may lead to an im-
proved economic climate in the United
States.
In recent years, private sector research
and development has concentrated on
low-risk, short-term projects directed at
improving existing products. Emphasis
on the longer term research that could
lead to new products and processes has
decreased.
Although the development of new
products or processes is primarily the
responsibility of the private sector in the
United States, Federal policies have a
profound impact on the innovation proc-
cess. In light of the central role of innova-
tion in economic development, Federal
policies on the economy, taxes, regula-
tions, procurement, and foreign relations
which affect innovation will be carefully
examined in the study.
The review will be accomplished under
the procedures established by the Domes-
tic Policy Review system and is to make
its recommendations within 14 months.
The interagency committee will be
chaired by the Secretary of Commerce.
Other members include the Secretaries of
Defense, Treasury, HEW, and Energy,
the Attorney General, the Administrator
of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, the
Director of the National Science Founda-
tion, the Director of OMB, the Chairman
of the Council of Economic Advisers, the
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations, and the
Science and Technology Adviser to the
President.
President's Export Council
Appointment of Emile R. Bussiere and Mark
Hasten as Members. May 11, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of two persons as members of
the President's Export Council. They
are:
EMILE R. BUSSIERE, of Manchester, N.H., an
attorney and owner of a real estate company;
MARK HASTEN, of Indianapolis, co-owner of
an Indiana health care company providing
nursing care in six communities.
The Export Council was established
by Executive order in 1973 to advise the
President on matters relating to export
trade. It has 22 members and is part of
the Commerce Department.
Appointments Secretary
to the President
Appointment of Phillip J. Wise, Jr.
May 11, 1978
Phil Wise, named today as Appoint-
ments Secretary to the President, moves
to that position from his work as Deputy
Appointments Secretary.
892
