Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
My question is this, Mr. President:
Would you be willing to use the power of
your office, the great moral power that
you have, perhaps make a fireside chat to
awaken the Nation to the importance of
extending the time for the passage of the
equal rights amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't promise you
the fireside chat, but I do favor the ex-
tension of the time for the ratification of
the equal rights amendment.
My wife, Rosalynn, is in Tampa, Flor-
ida, today trying to get the equal rights
amendment ratified in Florida.
This ruling has been issued by the At-
torney General, Griffin Bell, that it would
be constitutional to extend the time for
ratification, and legislation will be con-
sidered by the Congress.
The Congress would have to pass such
legislation. I support it. And if it is passed,
I will sign it with pleasure.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
OIL SUPPLIERS
Q. Mr. President, I am Chris Cookson,
and I'm from Brewer. My question is, I
would like to know where you plan to get
oil if the Mideast refuses to sell to the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. This will have
to be the last question. But, Chris, that's
a good question to ask, and it's one that's
very important to your area of the coun-
try in particular.
As you know, the OPEC nations, the
oil-producing and exporting nations are
not all Arab countries. And I think it's
accurate to say that now we have a much
better relationship with the Arab coun-
tries than we had in 1973, when an em-
bargo was placed on our country.
We've now gotten to be very close, for
instance, to Saudi Arabia, the major oil-
producing nation of the world. And Iran
is a very good friend of ours, and so are
others.
Outside of the Middle East, there are
major suppliers of oil: England is now
able to export oil from the North Sea. We
will be building up our Alaska oil pro-
duction to about 2 million barrels per day.
Mexico has great reserves of oil that
they're just beginning to explore for.
Venezuela provides a large portion of
our oil—that's a country in South Ameri-
ca, as you know.
Nigeria is an OPEC nation in Africa.
We now have a very good relationship
with Nigeria. Formerly, when Secretary
Kissinger was in office as Secretary of
State, we had such bad relationships with
Nigeria that they wouldn't permit him to
come into the country to visit. But now we
have good relationships there.
So, I would think that there's much
less of a chance for the OPEC nations in
the Middle East to declare an embargo
against us because we are better friends
than we used to be.
Secondly, many nations outside of the
Middle East who are OPEC nations can
provide us with oil. We have a major
supply of oil in our own country. We pro-
duce now about 50 percent, a little more
than 50 percent of what we use. And we
have strict conservation measures that
could be built up.
One other point is that we are putting
in the ground, in underground storage, in
saltdomes, about 500 million barrels of oil
which will be built up by 1985 to a billion
barrels of oil. This is enough to carry us
over for about 8 or 10 months, even with a
total embargo against our country.
I will do all I can to prevent an embar-
go. And as I said many times during the
campaign, if another nation declares an
embargo against us, I would declare a
363
