Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 1
Chinese New Year, 1978
Message of the President. February 1, 1978
The Chinese New Year again joins
Rosalynn and me in an expression of
good wishes to our fellow citizens of Chi-
nese ancestry.
KEN MORRIS, international executive board
member and director of Region 1-B of the
United Auto Workers;
JAMES R. O'BRIEN, assistant director of the
AFL-CIO department of social security.
It is a fine opportunity for all Ameri- Save Your Vision Week, 1978
cans to review with pride the accomplish-
ments and vast cultural heritage of a very
Proclamation 4549. February 1, 1978
important segment of our population. By the President of the United States
Time-honored Chinese wisdom has given
us inspiration, Chinese art has enriched
our lives and individuals of Chinese or-
igin have immeasurably contributed to
the vitality and strength of our society.
For all these reasons this New Year ob-
servance makes it highly appropriate for
us to salute all Chinese-Americans on
whom so much of our national progress
and development continues to depend.
JIMMY CARTER
National Commission on
Unemployment Compensation
Appointment of Six Members.
February 1, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of six persons as members of
the National Commission on Unemploy-
ment Compensation:
WILBUR J. COHEN, dean of the School of Edu-
cation and professor of education, and pro-
fessor of public welfare administration in the
School of Social Work, at the University of
Michigan;
BEATRICE COLEMAN, president, chairman of the
board, and chief executive and operating offi-
cer of Maidenform, Inc.;
WILBUR DANIELS, executive vice president of
the ILGWU;
J. ELDRED HILL, JR., executive director of UBA,
Inc., a Washington research and consulting
firm dealing with unemployment and work-
men's compensation legislation;
of America
A Proclamation
Good vision is too important to be
left to chance. Most of what we learn and
do depends upon how well we can see. As
one of our most valuable possessions,
sight deserves our care and protection.
By learning the early warning signs of
eye disease, practicing eye safety, and hav-
ing regular eye examinations, we can pre-
vent some of the most common forms of
visual impairment and blindness. Many
eye disorders can be corrected or allevi-
ated with prompt professional care. By
wearing protective eyeglasses or safety
goggles in potentially hazardous situations
on the job or at home, we can prevent
many eye injuries. Regular eye exami-
nations may also detect early signs of
abetes or high blood pressure, long before
other serious health problems, such as di-
symptoms appear.
To increase awareness of the impor-
tance of good vision and of ways to pro-
tect it, the Congress, by joint resolution
approved December 30, 1963 (77 Stat.
629, 36 U.S.C. 169a), has requested the
President to proclaim the first week of
March of each year as Save Your Vision
Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
257
