Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
ment grant program, and special invest-
ment tax credits to businesses to give
them less taxes to pay if they will move
their business and set up a new business
in areas like your own where the unem-
ployment rate is high.
We're providing direct payments to
neighborhood groups and organizations,
like those here in Watts, for community
crime control, to repair housing, and for
neighborhood development.
This urban policy will strengthen mi-
nority businesses. We passed a public
works bill last year, several billions of
dollars, $4 billion, and for the first time,
with the help of people like the Con-
gressman here on the stage with me, we
put in the law that at least 10 percent of
all the projects built had to be built by
contractors owned by minority American
citizens. We're going to beat that 10
percent.
We also set a goal that by the end of
last year, we were going to have at least
$100 million in Federal money deposited
in banks owned by black citizens. We
went over our goal. We're going to have
even more this year.
In the past, the Government agencies
haven't bought enough supplies, like fi-
ling cabinets, notebooks, furniture, from
companies owned by minority citizens.
But I pledged when I became President
to double that in 1 year. We've already
doubled it, and I pledge for next year to
triple what we were doing in purchasing
supplies and other things from companies
owned by and employing black citizens
and Spanish-speaking citizens.
I realize that we've still got a long way
to go. We're partners, you and I, in trying
to make America, the land, the country
that we love, be fair to everybody, because
too long in the past, because someone was
poor, because someone was black, because
someone was without influence, they
weren't treated fairly by government
and by private industry and business, as
well.
We're going to try to change that, and
I believe we've already made some good
progress. We've tried to bring people into
Washington to help me, who understand
these special problems. Just 2 weeks ago,
for instance, Bob Kemp began his duties
as the new Executive Director of a Coun-
cil for Minority Businesses, and he will
help me see that we meet the goals that
I've just described to you. Until he was
called to Washington, Bob was president
of the Economic Resources Corporation,
which built the Watts Industrial Park.
This park has brought in already more
than 900 new jobs, and this year it will
add several hundred more, 80 percent of
them for local residents like you and like
your kinfolk.
The industrial park, like the Labor
Action Committee projects in this center,
represent the kind of development that
inner-city neighborhoods need. Local
people have just gotten together and
brought in big national companies and
dozens of smaller firms to create a broad
and expanding economic base and new
jobs.
You included a day care center to serve
workers in the community. Projects like
these show what a community can do for
itself, with the right kind of help from the
government, to meet some of its needs for
jobs, housing, good health care, day care
centers, and senior citizen services.
It was this spirit of cooperation for the
common good that moved Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., and Rosa Parks, and all
the other Americans, black and white,
who did so much to free this Nation from
the ancient evil of discrimination that had
divided and weakened us from the begin-
ning. Thank God those days are almost
over.
When I was here nearly 200 years-
nearly 2 years ago [laughter]—it seems
843
