Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
been a gravy train so far. [Laughter] He
really had tough problems and severe
criticisms. His popularity dropped down
to less than 23 percent.
Well, you know, I think any President
is a focal point for criticism, and legiti-
mately so. I'm the leader of the Nation.
I don't try to put the responsibilities off
on someone else.
I think another thing that cuts both
ways is that when I came into office, a
lot was expected of me. You know, had
Nixon or Ford done as much as we have
done already, it would have been a tre-
mendous beneficial and appreciative re-
action to it. But since people expected so
much from a new Democratic President
after 8 years, that when we have done
good things, legitimately, people expect
even more. And I think that this is part
of being President. I don't deplore it.
I don't want to rest on my laurels. I
don't want to spend my time the next 3
years of my administration bragging
about what we have done. I want to
spend the next 3 years saying, "How can
we do better?" and listen very carefully
to somebody that criticizes me and say,
“Are they right? Is this program working
or not?" I think that's a better attitude
to have. I don't feel badly about that.
REVERSE DISCRIMINATION
MR. Lewis. I think there's a growing
feeling among certain segments of whites
across this country that blacks are getting
too much. I wonder, do you feel that
there's discrimination against white peo-
ple and how-
THE PRESIDENT. No, I do not. I think
the position that we took in the Bakke
case, I think the position that we've taken
in orienting Federal procurement pro-
grams, contracts for public works, public
service job programs, the reorganization
that's coming forward in the equal em-
ployment opportunity area in Govern-
ment, is going to be of great benefit to
blacks and other minority groups in the
future. And I don't think that we've done
too much at all.
When you look at the statistics, al-
though we have made progress, as I
pointed out before, we still have a very
embarrassing disparity in income, job op-
portunities, unemployment rates, focused
with its adverse effects among the minor-
ity citizens.
MR. LEWIS. Mr. President, just a fol-
lowup: Mayor Rizzo of Philadelphia has
threatened to launch a white effort, an
ethnic effort, bringing white people to-
gether because black people are getting
too much. What do you think the effect of
that is going to be on America?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there
will be any effect on America.
MR. LEWIS. You don't think that
will-
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think so.
Most Americans, particularly myself as a
southerner, can still see the very difficult
circumstances under which minority fam-
ilies live on the average—there are obvi-
ous exceptions both ways-because of
past legal discrimination, plus the illegal
discrimination that still exists in some
areas. That's why, under civil service re-
form, under equal employment opportu-
nity program reform, we're trying to root
out those last vestiges of discrimination in
government and set a pattern for the pri-
vate sector.
This morning I had a meeting with a
man who will head up the National Alli-
ance of Businesses to provide jobs for par-
ticularly disadvantaged people in the pri-
vate sector, completely removed from
government, in addition to what we are
doing in government.
I think we have a long way to go to re-
pair the damage that has been done in
the past by discrimination.
692
