Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 3
National Nursing Home Week,
May 14-21, 1978
Message of the President. May 2, 1978
We must not forget our older Ameri-
cans who have contributed so much to the
growth and development of our society.
The nursing home must reflect our appre-
ciation and our unfailing concern for
their well-being.
On behalf of a grateful nation, I there-
Evaluation and Research from 1969 to
1971. He is the author of numerous pub-
lications and articles on work and
workers and has served as an adviser and
consultant to numerous Government
commissions and panels.
Bill Authorizing White House
Conferences on the Arts
fore want to pay tribute to the many dedi- and Humanities
cated individuals who provide services to
these in nursing homes. New knowledge
about the elderly, new technology and
improved skills have resulted in the saving
of human life, the prolongation of the life
span and the rehabilitation of the im-
paired and disabled. This noteworthy
progress calls for a stronger than ever
commitment by all of us to the health and
well-being of our increasing numbers of
citizens in their golden years. I know we
will not fail them, and I ask all Americans
to join in the spirit of this observance.
JIMMY CARTER
Advisory Committee on
Federal Pay
Reappointment of Jerome M. Rosow as
Chairman. May 3, 1978
The President today announced that
he will reappoint Jerome M. Rosow, of
New York, as Chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Federal Pay. Rosow has
served as Chairman of the Committee
since 1972.
Rosow, 58, is president and founder of
the Work in America Institute. He was
Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy,
Statement on Signing H.J. Res. 649 Into Law.
May 3, 1978
Today I sign H.J. Res. 649, the 1979
White House Conferences on the Arts
and Humanities act.
This administration believes deeply in
the importance of the arts and the hu-
manities to the vitality of our culture, and
in the worth of Federal programs in this
area. In their work on this bill, John
Brademas, Claiborne Pell, and others have
helped to demonstrate the need for a
broad national discussion of the state of
the arts and humanities.
However, I sign this bill today with
some reservations. In my view, conducting
separate conferences in arts and humani-
ties would involve unnecessary expense
and duplication and would miss an op-
portunity for a far more productive ex-
change of views and experiences among
persons deeply concerned with our cul-
tural life.
It is therefore my intention that this
bill be implemented as efficiently and in-
expensively and as productively—as
possible. I expect that the two confer-
ences will function jointly or concurrently
and that they will share staff and activities
to the maximum extent possible.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res. 649 is Public
Law 95-272, approved May 3.
823
