Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
realized. And there is a definite commit-
ment on the part of our two countries to
bring about this, the needed political will,
which will have to be brought about not
only on our own part but on the part of
countries in a different situation, the in-
dustrialized and the developed countries,
which have the responsibility of President
Carter and the United States country and
the developing countries, which we will
bring as much of our efforts to bear on,
countries in the type of position to see the
need for us to work together and bring
about the political support for working
out something at least that will be better
than what is now in existence.
These are the areas we have covered,
and it is the coverage of these areas that
has led to what I believe we have signed.
Mr. President, am I right?
THE PRESIDENT. General Obasanjo,
that was an excellent summary of the
points that have been made and described
in the joint communique. This is not a
typical communique signed at the end
of a visit which has no substance and no
meaning. It's been very carefully drafted
as a result of what, unfortunately, is the
first official visit of any American Presi-
dent to this region of the world.
Nigeria is recognized in this continent
and throughout the world as one of the
major nations of the modern day. And
what they say through their leaders will
have a profound impact not only on us,
during these discussions, but on govern-
ments everywhere, who will study this
communique to determine how is it that
Nigeria and the United States can agree
on a common statement, what are these
principles that they espouse, what is the
action that they envision for the future.
The first few sentences that General
Obasanjo said when I began my discus-
sions with him were, "We are very glad
that finally the United States has turned
its eyes and its interest and its influence
toward Africa, because the principles that
are the basis for the American Constitu-
tion and Government and people are ex-
actly the principles that Africa needs to
study and to adopt whenever possible in
our own country and in our own conti-
nent."
We have seen common themes go
throughout every stop we've made. The
overwhelming single two words that de-
scribe this theme is "human rights" in
all its aspects. And the hunger for free-
dom, the hunger for liberty, the hunger
for individuality, the hunger for a right
to be free of oppression, to participate
in one's own government, to shape one's
own destiny, to have something to eat, a
place to live, food to drink, and education
for one's children, are deprivations that
are deeply felt. And the more that leaders
of strong nations can speak out openly
and aggressively on these subjects for the
poor and deprived and the illiterate and
the inarticulate people who can't speak
out and have their voices heard, the bet-
ter off will be the whole world.
I think in every respect that we've dis-
cussed that General Obasanjo has out-
lined and I won't repeat-to solve the
Middle East, Zimbabwe, Namibia, South
Africa, there is an abhorrence on our part
against the gross abuses of human rights
and the threat to world peace.
The last point I would like to make is
one that he has referred to several times,
including his toast a few minutes ago, and
that is our belief that Africans are com-
pletely able to resolve their own differ-
ences in Africa as it relates to political
and military encounters. And the intru-
sion of outside forces into African disputes
can only aggravate them and exaggerate
the death and suffering of people in this
continent.
Nigeria plays a major role in the Or-
ganization of African Unity. That's a
proper forum to go to get a resolution of
663
