Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tant than the collective sum of them. The
collective action that we would take by
agreement with each other is greater than
the sum of the parts in restoring confi-
dence.
So, I believe that we have begun on a
good path. I know that other leaders-
Chancellor Schmidt and President Gis-
card, Signor Andreotti, Mr. Trudeau, and
Mr. Fukuda—are all concerned about
these matters. It is for all of us to coordi-
nate our actions, and I believe that come
July, and the actions that we take be-
tween now and July and the efforts we
make, if we can ratify those actions with a
plan in July-not with declarations, we've
passed that stage, but with a plan of ac-
tion-I believe we can do a very great
deal to pull the world out of the recession
in which it finds itself.
I thank you very much, Mr. President,
for setting aside this time for our discus-
sions, which I value not only on this but
on other matters, too.
We don't have to waste time circling
around each other. We get down to talk
straightaway. The President's a quick man
at doing business. He thinks far too
quickly for me. And that's why I'm always
left behind. But I managed to struggle
along behind him, keep up now and again.
And between us, we can form some con-
clusions that I believe are of benefit to
both our countries.
Thank you very much indeed.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. to re-
morning, beginning at 11 a.m. and con-
tinuing through a working lunch. The
Prime Minister is in Washington at the
invitation of President Carter. He arrived
yesterday afternoon and will remain in
Washington for several days in a private
capacity, visiting his daughter and family
(Mrs. Peter Jay, wife of the British Am-
bassador). Mrs. Callaghan accompanied
him.
The Prime Minister's trip here is in the
context of our frequent and close con-
sultations with the United States tradi-
tional friends and allies, particularly on
economic and security issues affecting our
mutual well-being. As you know, Danish
Prime Minister Jørgensen was recently
here in his capacity as EC Council Presi-
dent, and Mr. Callaghan's visit will be
followed by the North Atlantic Council
summit meeting here in May, Japanese
Prime Minister Fukuda's visit later this
spring, and another economic summit
meeting in the coming months.
The meeting this morning was char-
acterized by a very warm and friendly at-
mosphere, as befits the third meeting of
the two leaders since President Carter
took office last year. The Prime Minister
and the President discussed a number of
issues, including the international eco-
nomic situation, at some length. They ex-
changed ideas and agreed to continue to
be in close communication.
porters assembled on the South Grounds of the Pan American Day and Pan
White House.
Meeting With Prime Minister
American Week, 1978
Proclamation 4557. March 23, 1978
Callaghan of the United Kingdom By the President of the United States
White House Statement. March 23, 1978
The British Prime Minister, the Rt.
Hon. James Callaghan, M.P., and the
President met at the White House this
of America
A Proclamation
For more than one hundred and fifty
years the nations of the Western Hemi-
sphere have recognized that peace and
566
