Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 2
laws could be fair and fruitful and equi-
table.
This is a pattern that has always pre-
vailed. It prevailed with civil rights. It
prevailed with no-fault automobile insur-
ance and many other things where the
local people detect a problem, deal with it
as best they can. And eventually, if the
problem is so severe or so widespread, the
Federal Government gets involved. And
then the administration of the laws passed
in Washington goes back down, quite
often administered with insensitivity be-
cause there's not a close, working, con-
stant relationship at the different levels of
government and with our private citizens.
It's easy to cast blame. It's cowardly to
cast blame. It's fruitless to cast blame
from the private sector to government, or
vice versa, from local to national govern-
ment, or vice versa, because a conference
like this demonstrates vividly that we
share not only the problems but the re-
sponsibility for their resolution. And it's
good to point out that it can be a part of
our democratic process to work in har-
mony.
The facts are almost overwhelming in
their complexity, and quite often facts
dispute one another, and to discern the
truth is not easy. And to correlate the
close, sometimes microscopic, observation
of a problem which is quite accurate in a
person's life or a community's life with a
need for fairness and uniformity on a na-
tionwide or international basis is a diffi-
cult process indeed. And that's what you
can offer to me here, because coming
from all 50 States and the territories,
commonwealths of our country, you can
bring in your long, I'm sure tedious, but
interesting and exciting discussions an
awareness of the common ground on
which we can resolve our problems.
My own background and education is
in science, in engineering, where there's a
constant search for change, for improve-
ment, for what is absolutely required to
look years into the future to see the mean-
ing of the discovery of atomic power, its
use for destruction, its use for the benefit
of human beings. These kinds of conse-
quences of present action are not easy to
predict, but it's important that we try.
And the same thing happens in govern-
ment.
Quite often government acts late, only
as a response to crisis, only after human
suffering has become widespread, when
an early detection of a problem and a
close working relationship might very well
let government at all levels act to prevent
crises. It is not nearly so dramatic, there
are not nearly so many headlines, but the
accomplishments therein are gratifying
indeed.
I appreciated very much the reports
that were made to me verbally and very
briefly, and we will study throughout our
own administration, and I'm sure the
Congress will do the same, the detailed re-
ports, the debates on both sides of issues,
the conclusions that you've reached, the
recommendations that you make. I want
to be sure that this is a continuing process.
I listened very carefully to Dean Ylvis-
aker, who talked about local economics,
local economy, interdependence, and the
involvement of both business and the non-
profit institutions. This is where I've seen
a real need for my wife to serve—she's
eager to do it-with constant access to
me, without the constraints of govern-
ment responsibilities, a real knowledge of
this country, having lived in Hawaii, hav-
ing lived in New York, Connecticut, Vir-
ginia, having lived in California and
Georgia, and now here, having traveled
in all the States. Our family has a per-
sonal knowledge of our country, and I
want to tap that ability and make sure
that I as President, and she as a member
267
