Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 24, 1978
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Address at Wake Forest University.
March 17, 1978
As someone who comes from a great
tobacco-producing State, it's an honor for
me to be here in the capital of the greatest
tobacco State in the world. What you
do
here means a lot to Georgia. And we have
always found that the people in the Win-
ston-Salem area and throughout North
Carolina share with us common purposes,
a common heritage, and a common fu-
ture. You've always received me with
open arms. You expressed your confi-
dence in me during the campaign for
President. And I'm indeed honored to
come here to Wake Forest, to Winston-
Salem, and to North Carolina, our neigh-
bor State, to make a speech of major
importance.
It's a pleasure to be with your great
Senator, Bob Morgan, who cast a cou-
rageous vote yesterday, and who is ex-
tremely knowledgeable about the subject
that I will talk about. He's on the Armed
Forces Committee, as you know the
Armed Services Committee, responsible
for our Nation's defense. He's on the spe-
cial committee, a highly selective commit-
tee on our Nation's intelligence, and he
has been one of the staunch protectors of
our Nation and is a great man and a great
statesman. Bob, I'm very glad to be with
you.
It's also good to renew my friendship
with your great Governor, Jim Hunt. I
first met him before he was Governor and
before I was President. We formed an in-
stant personal friendship, and his leader-
ship of your State has brought credit to
you and the admiration of the rest of the
Nation.
And I'm particularly grateful to be
here with Steve Neal. The first time I
came here was to join with him in his
campaign in 1974, when the prospects
were not very bright. But because of the
confidence in him, expressed by the peo-
ple of the Fifth District, he was successful.
He's now assumed a leadership posi-
tion in the Congress. He's a man, also,
who believes in the strong defense of our
country. His voting record proves this. In
addition, he's on the Science and Tech-
nology Committee, which is responsible
for advancing our purposes in the future.
And he is honored by being the chairman
of that portion of the Banking and Fi-
nance Committee responsible for interna-
tional trade. This means a great deal to
us, because the exporting of our products
and the protection of our textile industry,
our tobacco industry, our farm products,
529
