Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
through the Congress, the Congress would
not have been able to pass it, without your
help.
You also were effective in giving me the
right to reorganize the structure of Gov-
ernment. And we are trying to do that
now on a 3-year program that will be
effective in helping all of you:
We were able to create a new Energy
Department, to introduce energy legisla-
tion. You've worked hard at the progress
we've made. We've got three out of our
five major bills. We're on the verge of
getting our fourth one. Following that
will be the last one. This will do a great
deal to strengthen our country's economy,
to hold down the inflation rate, to restrict
our unwarranted imports of oil, and al-
though it doesn't affect your jobs directly,
it affects you as American citizens and as
human beings. And your constructive
help has been a crucial element in the
progress we've made already.
You've helped me with international
affairs, in learning how we could reach
out our hands to new friends around the
world, to countries who in the past we
had ignored and who will comprise in
the coming years an extremely influential
element in international matters that will
affect the lives and the well-being of every
single American. And your vision in
stretching beyond this country even has
been a very beneficial element of my ad-
ministration.
You've helped me to get through the
Senate the first of the two Panama Canal
treaties. I need your help on the next one.
I believe you and I together can prevail.
Now I particularly need your help
to get other major legislative proposals
through. One of the most important is
labor law reform. We need it, we're going
to get it. The House passed this legislation
with your help, with over a hundred-vote
margin. It's not going to be easy in the
Senate, we're going to have to work to-
gether, but I believe that together we can
prevail again.
We also need to put into effect the tax
reform package that we put forward to
the Congress. We need a $162 billion
tax reduction for the American citizens.
You can certainly use it. All your neigh-
bors can use it, and that's part of the
package. We need to inspire business to
expand to make available additional jobs.
I personally have never seen why some
of the privileges in the tax laws ought not
to be eliminated. I see no reason for a
telephone operator or a supervisor or a
person who works with their hands to pay
for a three-martini lunch for some bigshot
business executive, $50 a day- [ap-
plause]. This has been part of our tax law
too long, and I see no reason either for
the tax privileges that have in the past
encouraged American businesses to trans-
fer American jobs overseas when we still
need the jobs here in our own country.
So I need your help with that.
The other thing I would like to men-
tion specifically, and there are a lot of
things that I could mention, is we're going
to have to do something about inflation.
We've had superb good fortune and great
progress in cutting down on the unem-
ployment rate. We're going to make some
more progress this year.
We've already reached the point at the
second month in this year that we had
set as a goal for ourselves at the end of
1978. But the inflation rate is creeping up.
And unless we all stand firm, cut out
waste, have a sound economy, stabilize the
dollar, have the energy package passed,
cut out unnecessary spending, and hold
down the budget deficit, we're going to
all be robbed of the improvements we've
made with your help this last year.
686
