June 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rificial, public employees a chance to per-
form their work better. We could recog-
nize excellence of performance and
dedication and also have more flexibility
in making their jobs more effective for
the Government. If there are instances of
inadequate performance, it gives us a
chance to chastise or discharge that em-
ployee or transfer him to a more produc-
tive position.
We have taken some administrative ac-
tions. We've been considering for quite a
long time now, several years in fact, how
to control cotton dust in the air and textile
mills. And I think we've now worked out a
very good compromise position which still
adheres strictly to the proposition that
workers ought to be protected from cotton
dust levels and at the same time would
have a minimal adverse economic impact
on the textile industry, which is already
under severe strain from excessive
imports.
So, we're getting into the regulatory
business with inflation impact a major
factor. But we're very desperately trying-
and I think we will succeed-in not en-
dangering workers' health, not endanger-
ing the quality of our environment on
environmental standards, and trying to get
the Government as much as possible out
of the role of unwarranted regulation of
the private enterprise system.
We've gotten good support and coop-
eration from business and labor. As you
know, the Retail Clerks (Union)ยน the
other day endorsed our deceleration plan.
Several of the major industries in our
country have done so, General Motors,
A. T. & T., and so forth, volunteering to
hold down executive salary increases and
also to have their prices be less in this
year
than they were on an average for the last
2 years, the price increases.
ยน Printed in the transcript.
I've taken administrative action yes-
terday to renegotiate beef import levels,
which I think is very important to our
country. We have a shortage of lean beef
in particular. And in order to market
existing trimmings from our very fat beef
that we grow in our country, in grain-fed
cattle, we need to have this importation
of lean beef.
So, the State Department, working
with the Agriculture Department, will
negotiate to get an increased level of lean
beef imports. This will help the con-
sumers; it won't hurt the American
farmers, because there is a worldwide
shortage of livestock now-in particular,
beef.
The other point I'd like to make is a
general one, and that is we are going to
have to hold the line on the budget. And
I presented a very adequate budget to the
Congress, prepared back in November
and December, when the prospect of in-
flation was not nearly so alarming. The
Congress has been inclined to take these
adequate proposals and expand them
considerably over a broad range of in-
terests education, labor, defense, agri-
culture, transportation, health, and so
forth. And this has got to be controlled.
And I believe that you can see the ne-
cessity for me to deal firmly with the over-
all impact of inflation, because if I don't,
I don't think anyone will. And I think
any one of these proposals, if examined
alone, could be justified: increased
spending for transportation, increased
spending for defense, increased spending
for the handicapped, increased spending
for college student aid programs, in-
creased spending for agriculture, and so
forth.
Briefly, on foreign matters, we are still
working toward some settlement of the
Mideast dispute. I will be delivering or
exchanging the treaty documents with
1074
