Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 30
THE PRESIDENT. We have no plans
whatsoever to reinitiate a bracero pro-
gram. Our own proposal to deal with the
undocumented workers or illegal alien
question has already been submitted to
the public, and that encompasses what we
proposed. It does not comprise a bracero-
type program.
SOVIET SATELLITE CAPABILITIES
Q. There are reports that the Soviets
have or soon will have the capability to
disrupt our sending of military orders by
satellites. Can you tell us whether they
are accurate or not?
THE PRESIDENT. My information is that
that report is not accurate.
NAZI DEMONSTRATION IN SKOKIE, ILLINOIS
Q. Mr. President, there's a group of
American Nazis in Skokie, a suburb of
Chicago, which is contemplating a march
that's in a predominantly Jewish neigh-
borhood, and there might be victims there
of the Nazi concentration camps from
World War II. Do you have any plan to
use the moral weight of your office to try
to discourage this kind of a march?
THE PRESIDENT. I deplore it. I wish
that this demonstration of an abhorrent
political and social philosophy would not
be present at all. This is a matter that is
in the American Federal courts, as you
know, and under the framework of the
constitutional guarantee for free speech. I
believe under carefully controlled condi-
tions the courts have ruled that it is legal
and that they have a right to act this way.
We have the same problem, as you
know, in other parts of the Nation—in the
South with the Ku Klux Klan, and others.
And I don't have any inclination to inter-
cede further. I think it's best to leave it
in the hands of the court.
PLANS FOLLOWING TERM IN OFFICE
Q. Mr. President, is it true that you
plan to become a missionary after leaving
office, and if so, how soon after leaving,
for how long and where [laughter]—
and if I can pursue it, have you discussed
this with Mrs. Carter? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I discussed it
with my wife, who was a member of the
Sunday school class that I taught yester-
day morning.
I have, as a Baptist layman, been part
of a group that advocated an expanded
church mission program, but I've not de-
cided whether or not I would want to be
as President.
a missionary after I complete my term
DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE
Q. Mr. President, on March 15th of
1976, you told the Chicago Council on
Foreign Relations that the American peo-
ple have had their fill of covert manipu-
lation. The Executive order you signed
last week, January 24, provides a proce-
dure for the NSC to approve covert ma-
nipulation. Now, I'm wondering, if the
American people have had their fill of
covert manipulation, why you are contin-
uing to provide this procedure for allow-
ing it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
the Executive order would permit, as you
call it, covert manipulations. It does per-
mit the surveillance of certain groups in
the United States. The only way that an
American citizen can be put under sur-
veillance, clandestine or secret surveil-
lance, is as a result of an order by a Fed-
eral judge with a warrant.
If someone is strongly suspected of be-
ing an agent of a foreign power, working
against the security of our country, then
with the approval of the Attorney Gen-
eral to assure that it is a proper function
and with my own approval, too, that is
permitted.
But that's no departure from any
past-
249
