Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
for evenhanded, highly professional,
competent, professional managers, inde-
pendent of either party.
Plenty of people know how bad the
system was. But it took the tragic assas-
sination of a President, James Garfield, by
a disappointed officeseeker who had not
been appointed, to provide the push that
led to the creation of a professional civil
service. This was done in 1883, when
Chester Arthur was President. In the 95
years since then, the huge bulk of Federal
officeholders have been professional civil
servants. Only a few thousand jobs, much
less than one percent, are still filled by
Presidential appointment.
Creation of a permanent, professional
civil service was a major Government re-
form. There's no question about that.
And yet in some ways, that very system
has become over the years an obstacle to
what I want to see-the very best possible
government for our country. The Fed-
eral civil service is still basically sound,
but its machinery has grown old and
complicated and rusty.
Too often nowadays, the system stifles
individual initiative and protects the cozy
jobs of even those within the system who
don't do a good job. Too often, the length
of time that the employed person has
served is automatically rewarded, as if
you were automatically promoted from
one grade to another in school whether or
not you passed any of the courses in which
you were enrolled. No one is more frus-
trated by this situation than our thou-
sands of hard-working, competent, and
dedicated public servants themselves. I
found this to be true on the State level
when I was Governor of Georgia. People
told me ahead of time that if I tried to re-
organize the State government, the civil
servants would be opposed. But by and
large, I found to my surprise that they
were the ones that wanted most to have
a good government in which they could
do their life's work with effectiveness.
We need an improved civil service on
the Federal level, a system that rewards
those who serve well, disciplines those
who are inefficient or incompetent or ir-
responsible, and gets rid of those who
can't do their jobs well at all. We must re-
store the merit principle to the civil serv-
ice. By early next month, I expect to an-
nounce full details of such a plan and sub-
mit it to Congress for approval. This plan
will create stronger safeguards against the
abuse of official power. It will reward
merit, not just longevity. It will reduce
redtape and delays. It will simplify and
speed up the way we handle employee
grievances and disciplinary actions. It will
make it easier for women and for members
of minority groups to get ahead or get fair
treatment in the Federal Government.
And it will allow every single department
of your Government in Washington to
meet the needs of the public with more
efficiency.
I hope it will help us to make a govern-
ment that people like you will want to
work in, the best and the ablest young
people in our country. If you should
choose Government service-and I hope
many of you will-I want you to find
yourselves in a system that allows you to
give our country your best.
Thank you very much. Now, I'd be
glad to answer your questions.
QUESTIONS
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. I am Cass Spanos from Stevens
High School in Claremont, New Hamp-
shire. Mr. Carter, President Sadat of
Egypt has shown a great deal of courage
in initiating peace overtures in Israel. Do
you think you have done anything to
negate or to disrupt these negotiations by
agreeing to send fighter planes to Egypt?
367
