June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
prominent law firms in our country and,
of course, some small independent law-
yers as well.
This has obviously been helpful to the
furthering of civil rights for those who
need legal assistance. But it's also pro-
vided an avenue backward-or perhaps it
would be better to say in the other direc-
tion because it has made the establish-
ment figures, the wealthy, the secure, the
blessed, the influential citizens of many
communities around our country become
personally acquainted with the depriva-
tions that they would otherwise never
have understood. And I believe that
there has been an arousing of the con-
sciousness of our Nation about a chal-
lenge that was potentially crippling to
our societal structure and which has
proven, under your leadership and with
your dedication, to be so successful.
We brought several of your active
members into my administration. I
won't try to name them all. Drew Days
is obviously one, Eleanor Holmes Nor-
ton, Cyrus Vance, Joe Califano, and
others. I hate to go down the list. But I
think that this is a credit to our Govern-
ment, that there could be a climate here
wherein they felt they could continue
their good work from a varied series of
perspectives, from the Secretary of State
to the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, and in agencies in between,
whose motivation and purpose is benevo-
lent in character.
I know that you've also extended your
influence in a beneficial way overseas,
providing help for those who suffer from
racial discrimination, for instance, in
South Africa.
I've had a chance to triple the amount
of money that we spend for the enhance-
ment of civil rights. We are trying to re-
organize the structure so that there
would be a clearer assignment of respon-
sibility and also a clearer identification of
the reasons for delay or failure. And
Eleanor Holmes Norton is one who has
the background and experience and the
dedication, the tenacity, the reputation
and esteem to make this transformation
be felt in the way in which it has been
intended.
We'll continue with these efforts, and
I come here, to summarize, to first of all
thank you for the great work that you
have done in the past, to express my
gratification at being a present part of it,
to recognize from the perspective of the
Presidency itself what it has meant to our
entire country, and perhaps even to the
world, and to express my belief and con-
fidence that your achievements in the fu-
ture will, if possible, be even greater for
those who need us most.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:35 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
National Earthquake Hazards
Reduction Program
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. June 22, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Throughout its history, the human
race has faced the threat of earthquakes,
but in the last few years advances in sci-
ence and technology have taught us more
about earthquakes, and reduced the mys-
tery of their origin and effects. These
advances now permit us to anticipate
earthquakes and to mitigate their potenti-
ally disastrous consequences. Today there
is hope that we may eventually be able to
predict earthquakes reliably.
Through the Earthquake Hazards Re-
duction Act of 1977 (Public Law 95-
124), the Congress seeks to apply these
advances by "the establishment and
1150
