Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
press a detailed briefing on them, and
then the messages will go to Congress
quite soon.
The third document that I'd like to
sign-and this is just a part of it-is the
1979 fiscal year budget. This is the first
budget that I've had a chance to prepare
as President. I inherited the 1978 fiscal
year budget, and we could make some
last-minute changes in it.
This has been completely evolved
using the new zero-based budgeting tech-
nique. It was an extraordinarily gratify-
ing experience for me and, I think, for
the officers and workers in the Office of
Management and Budget. It's tight. It's
well-considered. It meets the human
needs of our people. It improves greatly
our own national defense capability. It
doesn't waste money. It has a relatively
low increase in expenditures compared to
previous years. It's a good step toward a
balanced budget if we can sustain the
economic prosperity that seems to be in
progress. And I think it's a great tribute
to the professionals who have helped in
its preparation.
I've spent a great deal of time this past
year in meetings with the budget officers
and also in meetings with the leaders of
the departments and agencies who will be
served well by this budget. We have, I
think, a good presentation to make to the
Congress, and I believe it will be well
received.
So, I'm proud of the '79 fiscal year
budget and believe that in the future, we
can do an even better job as the innova-
tive and progressive consequences of a
zero-based budgeting
budgeting technique
learned even better by the agencies of our
Government.
are
[At this point, the President signed the budget
message.]
Mike, would you or Jim like to add a
word?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. No, Mr.
President. I think you've said it all.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I won't answer
questions this morning on these, but as I
said earlier, Jim McIntyre, on the budget,
and Mike Blumenthal, on the tax reduc-
tions and reform measure, and Charlie
Schultze, on the economy, will be avail-
able for complete briefings on these docu-
ments and on our proposals.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House.
Present at the ceremony were Charles L.
Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael
Blumenthal, and James T. McIntyre, Jr., Act-
ing Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.
For the texts of the Economic Report and the
tax and budget messages, see pages 129, 158,
and 185, respectively, of this volume.
Alexander Hamilton Award for
Laurence N. Woodworth
Remarks of the President and Secretary of the
Treasury Blumenthal at the Presentation
Ceremony. January 20, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. As I mentioned earlier
as I signed the tax message, there was a
special feeling in the minds and hearts
of everyone who knew Larry Woodworth
that he exemplified every attribute of
what a public servant should be.
He occupied a position with the Senate
Finance Committee and the House Ways
and Means Committee where he worked
closely with both groups, and he had such
a high integrity and such superb profes-
sional competence that his word was
accepted in the most detailed and contro-
versial issues facing our Nation's tax de-
cisions. I don't know of another public
servant, a professional, who can equal the
esteem with which Larry Woodworth was
known.
I got to know Larry Woodworth before
I became President. He came down to
125
