May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Golden, Colorado
Remarks at the Solar Energy Research
Institute on South Table Mountain.
May 3, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Haskell, Senator
Hart, Governor Dick Lamm, and Con-
gressman Tim Wirth, Dr. Rappaport,
ladies and gentlemen:
As a matter of fact, we've not yet made
a final decision about where to put the
National Solar Energy Research Insti-
tute. I'm going around to visit several
prospective sites to see where the Sun is
actually shining. [Laughter]
BYSTANDER. The wind's blowing.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. The
wind is blowing, so that's enough; you
qualify.
I am glad to be here where the Sun
shines 300 days a year. And as a farmer,
I'm also glad to be where it rains on
occasion, because we have to test all kinds
of potential solar equipment under vary-
ing kinds of weather conditions-dense
clouds, light clouds, cold and warm
temperatures and, of course, bright and
clear, sunshiny days.
Maybe the fact that Colorado does
have a remarkable degree of sunshine and
beautiful weather has something to do
with how effective your representatives in
Washington have been in promoting solar
energy. I've seen in my frequent visits
to Colorado an intense interest in solar
power that does not exist anywhere else
in the Nation that I have been.
Floyd Haskell, Gary Hart in the
Senate, Tim Wirth and others in the
House of Representatives have dedicated
much of their time and effort to the de-
velopment of effective and responsible
solar programs. We are lucky and you are
lucky to have them representing you. And
all of us in this country are lucky to have
their leadership in the solar energy field.
Without that sort of solar commitment,
the National Research Institute would not
be here, and its four regional solar centers
would never have been possible.
Here on South Table Mountain, if all
goes according to plan, ground will be
broken in the fall of 1979 for the insti-
tute's permanent home. Ninety percent of
its energy needs will be supplied by the
Sun.
The principal job of this national center
will be to carry out basic research and de-
velopment and to demonstrate projects in
advanced solar technology. The principal
job of the four regional centers will be
the commercial application of these tech-
nologies. Both the National Institute and
the regional centers will work as partners
with State and local governments.
Dr. Rappaport and his staff have my
full support in their efforts to make solar
energy an important contributor to the
daily energy needs of the United States of
America.
A little more than a year ago, I pro-
posed to the Congress and to the people of
the United States a comprehensive energy
program. And now, at last, we have made
a promising start towards conserving our
limited resources of fossil and mineral
fuel.
As the plan itself states, and I quote,
"America's hope for energy to sustain
economic growth beyond the year 2000
rests in large measure on the development
of renewable and essentially inexhaustible
sources of energy."
No matter how good a job of conserva-
tion we do, the world's supply of oil and
gas will dwindle, become more expensive,
and finally run out.
Foreign oil already costs us four times
as much as it did 5 years ago. Our spend-
ing on imported oil has increased from
$2.7 billion in 1970 to more than $45
billion last year. As a result, inflation robs
us all, the value of the dollar has dropped
on international monetary markets, and
824
