Apr. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
much more substantive and related
directly to the people's interests and needs
in the States and communities, and I
thank you for coming.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was
leased on April 29.
United States-Canada Reciprocal
Fisheries Agreement
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreement. May 1, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith a Reciprocal Fish-
eries Agreement for 1978 between the
Government of the United States and
the Government of Canada, effected by
an exchange of diplomatic notes dated
April 10 and April 11, 1978.
The Agreement, which continues
through 1978 the provisions of the 1977
Reciprocal Fisheries Agreement with a
few modifications, protects important
United States interests in our fisheries off
Canada and maintains the opportunity
for conclusion of long-term maritime ar-
rangements on boundaries, hydrocarbons
and fisheries resources, including salmon,
between the United States and Canada.
As was the case with the 1977 Recipro-
cal Fisheries Agreement, positive Con-
gressional action is required to bring the
1978 Agreement into force. I recommend
that the Congress give favorable consid-
eration to the Agreement at an early date
to establish the legal basis for the continu-
ation of reciprocal United States-Cana-
dian fisheries during 1978.
The White House,
May 1, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
30th Anniversary of the
State of Israel
Remarks of the President and Prime Minister
Menahem Begin at a White House Reception.
May 1, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's a great pleasure for
me and for Rosalynn to hold this recep-
tion for my friends, Prime Minister and
Mrs. Begin, and for the distinguished
Americans who have joined us today in
honor of the 30th anniversary of the State
of Israel.
We've just come to the close of the
Passover holidays, an annual reminder
of the exodus and dispersal of the Jewish
people. Since the destruction of the Sec-
ond Temple led to the Diaspora nearly
2,000 years ago, Jews have said a prayer
ending with "Next year in Jerusalem."
Through all these years we shared hope
of a homeland. The shared hope of a
homeland held together in spirit a people
who were scattered all over the world.
During those 2,000 years, Jews often suf-
fered religious discrimination, inquisi-
tions, pogroms, and death. Jews were too
frequently treated as strangers, even after
living for generations as inhabitants of
countries.
After I visited Israel in 1973, I read
Arthur Morris' book "While Six Million
Died," the tragic account of the ultimate
in man's inhumanity to man, the Holo-
caust. Six million people were killed,
most of European Jewry. They died not
only because of Nazi brutality but also
because the entire world turned its back
on them during their years of suffering.
No country was willing to give the Jews
of Europe a home where they could
escape from their torment.
Out of the ashes of the Holocaust was
born the State of Israel, a promise of
refuge and security and of return, at
last, to the Biblical land from which the
812
