Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
A few weeks ago, I was in India. As
part of my preparation for meeting with
Indian leaders, I read the Bhagavad-Gita
and later visited the site where Mahatma
Gandhi's body was cremated and thought
about his simple, deeply committed life,
his knowledge of Christianity and Juda-
ism, his worship of God, the simplicity and
humility and sensitivity of his life. And I
felt a kinship with him and a kinship of
the Indian leaders who have not always
been our friends in recent years. And as I
talked to Prime Minister Desai, this was a
common thread that ran through the con-
versations between us-how we shared
something.
Last year, at a relatively small supper at
the White House, Crown Prince Fahd
from Saudi Arabia, when asked a question
by a member of the group, a Member of
Congress how will Saudi Arabia with its
tremendous growing wealth deal with the
needs of its own people and hold together
as a community?-gave one of the most
eloquent impromptu speeches I have ever
heard about how a common religious faith
and their responsibility to hold together
the interest in the holy places of Islam
gave him confidence in the future and
guidance on how his own life should be
expended in the service of others.
I met with Prime Minister Begin twice
during this past year and hope to see him
again soon when he comes to our country.
I like him, admire him, and respect him,
because throughout his conversations with
me in the quiet, lonely, private times to-
gether, and even when he talks with others
in a larger group, there's a fervor of a
deeply committed, religious man who
again worships the same God I do and you
do.
I felt an instant friendship with Presi-
dent Sadat. And in his messages to me and
in my talks with him, he never fails to
point out that the Egyptians and the Jews
are sons of Abraham, worship the same
God, share a common heritage and a
common faith, and that this is a tran-
scendent thing, quite often forgotten, but
still there; that it doesn't change.
And in our own search for peace and
good will, in spite of setbacks and criti-
cisms and sometimes the undertaking of
tasks that are not easily performed, I have
a sense of confidence that if we emphasize
and reinforce those ties of mutual faith
and our subservience and humility before
God and an acquiescence in his deeply
sought guidance, that we can prevail.
The leaders of our Nation look with a
great deal of concern over the past expe-
riences when kings and princesses had tied
themselves to God, to the church, some-
times even in an exalted position relative
to God, and had cloaked maladministra-
tion and injustice in the protection of the
church. So, in our Constitution, we care-
fully prescribed that there should be no
establishment of religion in this country.
So, we worship freely. But that does not
mean that leaders of our Nation and the
people of our Nation are not called upon
to worship, because those who wrote the
Declaration of Independence and the Bill
of Rights and our Constitution did it
under the aegis of, the guidance of, with a
full belief in God.
In our rapidly changing world, we need
to cling to things that don't change-to
truth and justice, to fairness, to brother-
hood, to love, and to faith. And through
prayer, I believe that we can find those
things. I don't think that's overly opti-
mistic. And when Judge Sirica, one of the
great men of all times in our country, re-
ferred to Solomon, I thought about the
time described in the First Book of Kings,
I believe, when God said to Solomon,
"What do you want from me?" And Solo-
mon said, "Give Thy servant an under-
standing mind to govern your people, that
I might discern between good and evil.”
And God said, "That's such a fine prayer
264
