Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 14
vate Investment Corporation for terms
expiring December 17, 1979.
Friedman, of Shaker Heights, Ohio,
would replace Gustave Hauser, who re-
signed. Friedman was born August 1,
1941, in Cleveland, Ohio. He received an
A.B. from Dartmouth College in 1963
and a J.D. from Harvard Law School in
1966. He practiced law in Cleveland from
1967 to 1971 and from 1972 to the pres-
ent. In 1971 and 1972, he was executive
PL-480 ocean freight differentials be re-
tained in the Department of Agriculture,
but that the presentation of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture's budget to the Con-
gress be improved by clearly identifying
these costs as support of the U.S. mer-
chant marine. I believe that the recom-
mended change in budget presentation
will avoid the concealment of a subsidy
in the budget without imposing an undue
counsel to then-Governor John Gilligan administrative burden on the departments
of Ohio. Friedman was chairman of the
Ohio Civil Rights Commission from 1972
to 1974.
Swann, of Orlando, Fla., would replace
James A. Suffridge, whose term has ex-
pired. Swann was born May 5, 1940, in
Orlando. He received an A.B. in 1961 and
a J.D. in 1963 from Duke University. He
is an attorney in Orlando. He is currently
special counselor to the Florida treasurer
and insurance commissioner. He has
served on the Orange County Budget
Commission and the Orlando-Orange
County Expressway Authority.
and agencies.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas S. Foley, chairman, House
Committee on Agriculture; Herman E. Tal-
madge, chairman, Senate Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry; Warren G.
Magnuson, chairman, Senate Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation;
John M. Murphy, chairman, House Committee
on Merchant Marine and Fisheries; and
Clement J. Zablocki, chairman, House Com-
mittee on International Relations.
Food for Peace Program
Letter to Five Congressional Committee Chair-
men. February 13, 1978
In accordance with the International
Development and Food Assistance Act of
1977, I herewith forward a comprehen-
sive study of the payment of ocean freight
differentials between United States-flag
rates and foreign-flag rates when United
States-flag vessels are required to be used
for the shipment of agricultural commodi-
ties under the Agricultural Trade Devel-
opment and Assistance Act of 1954
(PL-480).
I endorse the recommendation of the
study that the responsibility for funding
Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth
Memorandum From the President.
February 14, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
When schools throughout the Nation
close for the summer, many young men
and women will be seeking summer jobs.
This year, due to the high degree of un-
employment among youth, Federal man-
agers, and employers in the private sector,
must increase their efforts to provide
meaningful employment experiences for
young Americans.
Through summer employment, young
people will have opportunities to apply
315
