Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 6
This has been a diverse journey for us,
but I have talked about simple, constant
themes. One is the demand for political
liberties, for basic human rights. On this
question, Belgium and the United States
have never differed. For these values we
have fought together in war, and we have
always worked together in peace.
The other universal theme is a need to
resolve conflict without violence, to make
peace instead of war. Throughout this
century, Belgium has paid a heavy price
for other nations' failure to keep the peace.
Now, Brussels is the home of institutions
such as the European Community, and
NATO represents our shared hope for a
secure and peaceful and a prosperous
future.
Brussels is a beautiful city, as my wife
and I will remember, which is one of the
discouraging aspects of this visit—that it
is all too brief. I feel, however, that the
warmth of your own personal welcome is a
consolation, and I look forward to seeing
more of your land and your people when
Rosalynn and I are able to return.
Your Majesty, thank you for this warm
welcome. We are indeed grateful for a
chance to be back with you and the peo-
ple of your country.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:50 a.m. at
Zaventem Airport.
Brussels, Belgium
Toasts of the President and King Baudouin I
at a State Luncheon. January 6, 1978
THE KING. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask
you to raise your glasses to the health of
the President of the United States and of
Mrs. Carter.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, we were
really very happy to have you both here,
for too little time, and we wish you a
happy return home and, if possible, a
peaceful rest during the weekend.
May God give you the strength and
light to continue your work for peace and
more justice.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Majesties and
distinguished leaders of the Government
of Belgium and the international organi-
zations that have come here because of
the deep commitments of Belgium and
your people to the principles of freedom,
strength through voluntary commitment
and international organization, because
of common beliefs and common purpose,
those of us from the United States are
very pleased to be again in your great
country.
Rosalynn and I came here before when
I was a Governor. In order to demon-
strate to the world the importance of
myself and my State, I called a press con-
ference. And only two people came.
[Laughter]
Today the importance of our relation-
ship is demonstrated by the great wel-
come that you've given us and the
interests of the press and the rest of the
world in the presence of American of-
ficials here with the European Commu-
nity, with NATO, and also with the Gov-
ernment of Belgium. Then, as now, my
trip is too brief and is devoted to work
of an official nature.
I would love to be able to have cele-
brated the 400th birthday of Rubens with
you and to travel around your beautiful
country to see not only your people but
also the works of art and the origin of
the culture, much of which we have in-
herited in our own country.
Yesterday, I was thrilled to visit, with
President Giscard d'Estaing, the shores of
Normandy, where in just 24 hours 176,000
forces landed to restore the freedom of
Europe and, at the same time, on an
33
