Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
accrues to you, because there are a num-
ber of congressional races that will be
coming up, and certainly the South and
the blacks therein will have some role in
the election or the failure to be elected on
a number of people.
It has been suggested that-and even
in the context of my colleague's ques-
tion-that while there may be money go-
ing into programs, there is not the recog-
nition of the very disparate relationship
that black people have to the economy.
For example, it's been said by some that
inflation is the major problem in the coun-
try. And I would suggest here, without
too much fear of being corrected, that
black people don't think that; that it's un-
employment and that it's the ability to be
a part of the economic system, that there
is, if you will, an economic apartheid;
that, coupled with some loss of favor,
some disillusionment among black people
may possibly be evidenced. Are you taking
a look at these congressional races, and do
you think that is a barometer of where
you stand, perhaps, with black America?
THE PRESIDENT. I think to a substantial
degree the outcome of the congressional
elections this year will be a measure of
my administration's approval among the
voters, yes.
We've made good progress in unem-
ployment. We've more than reached our
goal in 1977 for reducing unemployment,
even though nobody thought we would.
And even in 1978 in the first couple of
months the unemployment rate has con-
tinued to go down. It's just a little above
6 percent now.
MR. BRYANT. Excuse me. That is with
regard to nonblack unemployment, which
was higher to begin with. So a reduction
of 1 percent is-puts it at 11.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that.
The unemployment rate among blacks has
also dropped about 12 percent, but it
started out so high that it hadn't felt as
good a percentage benefit as the whites.
I might say this: Our public service
job program, which has been increased
150 percent, is heavily oriented to the
more disadvantaged person. And in our
CETA programs now we're getting much
more toward the employment of minority
citizens, who were ignored in the past.
Also, I think it's obvious that when
you reduce the unemployment rate over-
all in the country, then the special gov-
ernment programs that are designed to
help the private sector can be focused
more and more specifically on those who
are the first to be fired and the last to
be hired in the private sector, which is
quite often the minority citizens.
So, I think although we have made
some progress so far, we have still got a
long way to go. And with the lower un-
employment rate now, we can focus our
attention much more on the black citi-
zens, particularly young black citizens
who are heavily affected adversely.
MR. BRYANT. Does your administration
acknowledge an unfavorable distribution
of the wealth in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. LEWIS. Mr. President, even if all
of
your judgments have been right up to
now, how can a President be effective
when he lives around and among so much
alienation, such as the blacks, the farmers,
the Jews, the intellectuals, labor? I mean,
all of these groups seem to be unhappy
with President Carter's policies. How can
you be effective if you lose this kind of
broad-based support?
THE PRESIDENT. I think this has prob-
ably been the case with all previous Pres-
idents. At least in my lifetime it has. I
just finished reading a new biography of
President Truman, you know, written by
Robert Donovan. And compared to Tru-
man's problems, my administration has
691
