June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Father's Day, 1978
Proclamation 4574. June 9, 1978
Government in the
Sunshine Act
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Today's fathers face new challenges as
America changes. In addition to their tra-
ditional role as breadwinner for the fam-
ily, many fathers are playing a greater
role in raising children and in the home.
The preservation of America's family
structure will, in large measure, depend
upon their ability to meet these demands.
To honor our Nation's fathers, and to
provide an opportunity to reflect upon
their contributions to our society, the
Congress, by joint resolution of April 24,
1972 (86 Stat. 124; 36 U.S.C. 142a), has
asked the President to issue annually a
proclamation calling upon the American
people to observe the third Sunday in
June of each year as Father's Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby request that Sunday, June
18, 1978, be observed as Father's Day. I
direct Government officials to display the
flag of the United States on all Govern-
ment buildings on that day and I urge all
citizens to display the flag at their homes
and other suitable places.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this ninth day of June,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:53 p.m., June 9, 1978]
Memorandum From the President.
June 9, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
Subject: "The Government in the Sun-
shine" Act: Implementation
The Government in the Sunshine Act
requires certain Executive agencies to give
notice of their business meetings and open
them to public observation unless they
must be closed for any of ten specific rea-
sons. If the agency finds that the public
interest requires, it must open its meeting
to public observation even if there is a
reason to close it. The same reasons which
permit Executive agencies to close their
meetings also permit advisory committees
to close theirs.
To evaluate compliance with this Act,
I have asked the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget to record the
number of meetings subject to the Act, to
note whether those meetings are open or
closed, and if closed, to state the reason
for closing them. He will pass this informa-
tion along to me and to the Congress,
recommending whatever actions may be
appropriate to meet the spirit as well as
the letter of the law.
In litigation under the Act, the At-
torney General and the affected agencies
must not defend the closing of any meet-
ing unless they can demonstrate that harm
would have resulted if an open meeting
had been held.
I urge the agencies covered by the Sun-
shine Act to respect it by opening to the
public as many meetings as possible.
JIMMY CARTER
1068
