Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
leader into the Federal Reserve Board
system and not just a professional econ-
omist or even a banker.
Bill Miller is someone who is intimately
familiar not only with business manage-
ment but he also understands interna-
tional trade problems. And he's been
one of the most dedicated and unselfish
public servants I've ever known in trying
to enhance job opportunities for minority
groups, young people, Vietnamese veter-
ans, and so forth, working with private
business.
I think Bill Miller will bring a very
well balanced approach between control-
ling inflation on one hand, enhancing the
value of the dollar overseas with sound
international trade practices, and at the
same time, he has a heartfelt commitment
to cutting down the unemployment rate.
Also, I think that Miller will be much
more inclined to at least consult with
me and the Congress, perhaps, than
Chairman Burns was, because he's a
younger man, he's coming in, and he
knows that he has a lot to learn, as do I.
So, without any criticism of Arthur
Burns, I think that we will have a very
good administration of the Federal Re-
serve Board under Bill Miller.
LORING AIR FORCE BASE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bill Mc-
Donald. I'm a master sergeant in the
United States Air Force, and I live here
in Bangor, Maine.
My question, Mr. President, is what
are your feelings on the proposal to close
Loring Air Force Base?
THE PRESIDENT. When the decision is
made, probably later on this year-almost
surely later on this year-I'll make a
judgment as to what I think is best for
our country, its defense, with attention to
the efficient use of money and, obviously,
with its strategic advantage in case we
are attacked over the Arctic Circle in a
war.
Under the previous administration,
when President Nixon I believe was Presi-
dent, maybe President Ford, a decision
was made to close Loring Air Force Base
or to cut it down substantially. Ed Muskie
and Bill Hathaway recognized that in
addition to environmental questions and
defense questions and Federal budget
questions, there's a major additional fac-
tor of economic damage to the northern
part of Maine if Loring Air Force Base is
closed.
I have asked Secretary of Defense Har-
old Brown to reassess the decision made
by the previous administration about Lor-
ing. And I've told him to take into con-
sideration not just environmental ques-
tions and defense questions but also the
economic impact on Maine of closing Lor-
ing Air Force Base.
I don't know what their decision will
be when it's recommended to me. But I
do know that there's a much better chance
now to keep Loring Air Force Base open
because of the interest of your Senators,
your Governor and others, and because of
my interest, than there was before.
But I can't promise you at this point
that I'll keep Loring Air Force Base open
at its present full strength. But if there's
any doubt whatsoever about the overall
balanced impact, then my inclination
would be to maintain Loring at as high
a strength as possible. But I'll have to wait
until I get the recommendation before I
know the final answer.
ABORTION
Q. My name is Elizabeth Vickery. I live
in Orrington, Maine.
Mr. President, during your election
campaign, you stated you were against
using Federal funds for abortion.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
355
