Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 22
While our tax and budget proposals en-
sure that steady growth continues without
inflation, the CETA legislation I am pro-
posing today will make sure that more of
our people share in the benefits of growth.
With its training programs and direct job
creation, this legislation is critical to
reaching our employment goals.
In Fiscal Year 1979 we expect to spend
$11.4 billion in this effort, providing jobs
and training support for more than 4 mil-
lion people under the CETA program.
This legislation will combine public and
private efforts to attack the problem of
structural unemployment, which affects
groups, such as minorities and young peo-
ple, who have difficulty finding work even
when over-all economic prospects are
good. Last year, for example, our employ-
ment situations improved markedly; 4.1
million more people held jobs at the end
of 1977 than at the end of 1976, and the
unemployment rate fell by 1.4 percent.
But even while unemployment was falling
to 4 percent among white males above
the age of 20, it was rising from 35 to
38 percent among black teenagers.
The Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act will enable us to concentrate
on these groups that suffer structural
problems, without putting inflationary
pressures on the rest of the economy. Its
major elements are:
-Public service jobs for the unem-
ployed. In the last year, we have more
than doubled the size of this program, in-
creasing it from about 300,000 jobs to
725,000.
-The broad range of youth programs
authorized by the Youth Employment and
Demonstration Projects Act of 1977.
Spending for youth programs has in-
creased from about $660 million in Fiscal
Year 1976 to about $2.3 billion in Fiscal
Year 1979.
-The Administration's new Private
Sector Initiative, which will provide op-
portunity for the private and public sec-
tors to work together to provide jobs and
training for the unemployed and disad-
vantaged.
-Other important related programs,
such as the Jobs Corps, welfare reform
demonstration projects, and the Federal
government's job training efforts.
These CETA programs have already
played a role in reducing the unemploy-
ment rate from 7.8 percent to 6.3 percent
in the last 13 months.
The bill I am submitting today, which
will reauthorize the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act for an addi-
tional four years, from 1979 to 1982, will
sustain the current programs, establish the
foundation for future growth, and im-
prove the operation of the CETA system.
A countercyclical program under Title
VI, will maintain the 725,000 public
service employment slots that were part of
my stimulus program through Fiscal 1979.
We are rapidly approaching the 700,000
mark in that effort, and I fully expect that
the 725,000 goal will be reached in the
month of March.
Also, I am recommending to the Con-
gress that we adopt a trigger formula,
beginning in 1980, to insure that counter-
cyclical public service employment is
activated quickly when needed and is re-
duced as unemployment declines.
When the unemployment rate falls be-
low four and three-quarters percent, the
triggering formula will reduce the number
of slots to 100,000, targeted on areas that
still have high unemployment. For each
half percentage point that unemployment
exceeds that 4.75 percent level, 100,000
public service employment positions will
be added in Title VI.
Recent evidence indicates the effective-
ness of countercyclical public service em-
ployment. Just last week, the National
Commission on Manpower Policy released
a study done by the Brookings Institution
391
