May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
weapons with the ultimate goal, by the
American people at least, to eliminate
nuclear weapons from the Earth alto-
gether.
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Kyra
Coffey. And I know what I want to say,
first of all, is really unprofessional and
un—what am I trying to say?—not really
related, but I think you're really cute. I
do. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You're the first ques-
tioner that's made me blush. [Laughter]
Q. Okay. Now I'd like to ask my ques-
tion. If you're going to reduce the govern-
ment interference in the lives of the
American people as you said, why then
are you pushing for a national health care
plan which will only increase our income
tax and increase our national debt, just
as it has in England and Sweden? Thank
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. If that
was the result of a national health plan,
just to increase the burden on the Ameri-
ican people financially, I of course would
never consider it. Beginning with Presi-
dent Truman's administration, there has
been a growing interest and desire among
the American people to have a more far-
reaching or comprehensive health plan
for our Nation.
There would be several emphases in
the new plan that don't presently exist,
and I'll just mention a few of them.
One is prevention of disease, and not
just a commitment to treat an affliction
or a disease after it occurs in the human
body. Fifteen months ago the immuniza-
tion program for children, for instance,
had almost been completely forgotten.
Now with our new CHAPS program, so-
called, we are trying to test young people
at an early age, 4 or 5 years old, to see
what defects they do have, immunize
them against prospective diseases for a
change, as did occur in my childhood,
perhaps in yours, and make sure that the
emphasis is on prevention.
The second thing we want to do is to
let Americans prepay through a routine
monthly payment, for instance, for this
kind of care and not just depend upon
concerted and very expensive care after
they become ill.
We need to get away from the commit-
ment of medical doctors, hospital admin-
istrators, even patients, to go into a hos-
pital for treatment when they could get
adequate treatment in an out-patient
clinic. As you know, many hospital in-
surance policies won't pay off unless you
are admitted to the hospital as a patient.
Obviously, this is more convenient for
the doctors perhaps. It's much more prof-
itable for those who own or operate a hos-
pital. You're quite often given services or
treatment that you don't need, and of
course it makes the expense of hospital
care in our country far greater per person
than any other nation on Earth, includ-
ing Sweden, Canada, England, where
they do have a more comprehensive
health care program.
Another thing that we want to empha-
size in the new proposals is the use of
paramedical personnel, not just medical
doctors. Of course, this care would have
to be under the supervision of qualified
medical doctors, psychiatrists, and others,
but I think that the greater use of licensed
practical nurses, registered nurses, labo-
ratory assistants, physicians assistants, and
so forth would let this examination-type
care and routine treatment in out-patient
clinics be much less expensive.
We've seen in recent years an unbe-
lievable explosion in health care costs.
Last year, for instance, the hospital costs
went up in our country 16 percent. The
inflation rate went up about 6 percent.
And this has been typical of the last few
years.
Our hospital costs for a given degree of
876
