June 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. This is the charge, unionizing
America, when today, many times there
are many people who are saying no to the
union movement, greater numbers than
ever before.
THE PRESIDENT. Under the National
Labor Relations Act, passed many years
ago, workers were given the right to form
a union or to organize if they choose, if
they choose freely, exercising their own
judgment. And this is what the bill does.
It doesn't expand that proposition or that
principle at all. It just gives them the
right that ostensibly has been guaranteed
to them over decades in our country.
BEEF IMPORTS
Q. President Carter, Gary Watson, the
Idaho Statesman, in Boise. Your an-
nouncement yesterday on beef brought,
predictably, some very negative reactions
from farmers and ranchers. And the ini-
tial reaction part was that this was just
another evidence of a lack of concern by
your administration for the West. I'm
just curious to get your reaction to this.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
beef is produced all over the country, in-
cluding Georgia as well as the West.
[Laughter] This is another one of those
difficult decisions that a President has to
make. And I think we made the right
decision.
There is a worldwide shortage of beef.
In our country in particular, there will be
a shortage of beef for the next 3
years at
least, maybe 4 years. The early false news
that we were removing all import quotas
did have an adverse effect on the futures
market. The spot market for farm grown
and sold beef actually went up a dollar.
So, I think the beef industry, particu-
larly the farm sale barn level, was not
adversely affected, even when many
thought that we were going to remove
import quotas altogether. We took a very
modest approach to it: to negotiate new
beef imports of a particular kind and
quality that we need in this country, so
that we wouldn't remove controls on beef
imports as was feared.
One aspect that I think is important
is that when we produce in our country
grain-fed beef, which has a lot of mar-
bling in the texture and also a lot of fat
trimming, that fat has to be used for one
purpose or the other. Historically in our
country we've taken the fat from the very
high quality fed beef and mixed it with
lean beef in a very reasonable and re-
sponsible way to make hamburger. About
50 percent of all the beef that's sold, as
you know, in our stores to consumers is
hamburger.
So, we have a real shortage of lean
beef to mix with the fat from our grain-
fed cattle. And this is the kind of beef
that will be imported. I think 200 million
pounds will be actually needed. If this is
not done, then that fat portion of the
grain-fed beef will have to be melted
down for tallow, which is a very low-
priced item.
So, in my judgment, this decision will
not have an adverse effect on beef pro-
ducers in the long run. It will protect the
consumers to a very limited degree be-
cause of a worldwide shortage of beef.
And the projections are that even when
the beef comes in, it won't affect the price
of hamburger more than 4 or 5 cents. It'll
reduce it about that much. It's something
that needs to be done, though, to provide
adequate supplies of beef for the people
to eat, to protect the interests of the beef
producers, and to have some moderating
effect on inflation trends.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll answer one more.
Q. Still on the beef subject-I'm Sue
O'Brien from Denver, Colorado, KOA
1080
