Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
CONSUMER REFORM
We have taken many actions to benefit
consumers by reducing the costs and im-
proving the quality and safety of prod-
ucts. But one consumer initiative merits
separate emphasis the creation of the
Office of Consumer Representation. We
supported legislation last year to create
such an Office, so that the interests of
consumers could be represented in one
government agency. The Office would not
require additional government employees
or expenditures since it would merely con-
solidate the consumer offices that already
exist throughout the government. I am
strongly committed to this legislation, and
regard its enactment as one of the year's
primary legislative priorities.
PUBLIC BROADCASTING REFORM
I proposed legislation last year to
strengthen the public broadcasting serv-
ice by providing increased long-term Fed-
eral support, insulation from political
pressure, better coordination among the
national organizations that run public
broadcasting, and more opportunity for
citizens to participate at the local level.
My Administration will work with Con-
gress this year to pass these reforms.
OPENNESS AND INTEGRITY
One of our primary goals is to make
certain that the government's ethical
standards are high, and that they are ful-
ly observed. And we must ensure that our
government is open and responsive to the
American people.
Last year, I took steps in that direction
by requiring that the senior officials of my
Administration publicly disclose their in-
come and assets and pledge not to do
business with their agencies for two years
after leaving government service. To in-
crease the government's openness, we
took steps to make certain that the spirit
as well as the letter of the Freedom of
Information Act was observed. And we
tried to bring the Presidency to the peo-
ple with citizen forums and discussion
panels throughout the country.
This year, we will continue these ef-
forts, concentrating our primary atten-
tion on these areas:
Lobby Reform
The Administration will press for leg-
islation requiring registration of lobbyists
and thorough public disclosure of their
lobbying activities. This long-overdue
legislation will help reestablish confidence
and trust in government.
Ethics
I applaud the strong ethical codes
adopted last year by the House and Sen-
ate. I believe those codes and the stand-
ards established for my Administration's
officials should be made law, so that they
will clearly apply to public officials in the
future. I urge Congress to pass the Public
Officials Integrity Act this year.
Classification
We are completing a study of classi-
fication systems for government docu-
ments and I will shortly issue an Execu-
tive Order designed to eliminate improper
and unnecessary classification and to en-
sure that documents are declassified more
rapidly.
JUSTICE
Civil Rights and Equal Opportunity
All Americans have fundamental civil
rights requiring government protection,
and all must be afforded equal opportuni-
ties to participate as full members in our
society. In 1977, this principle guided my
110
