Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 12
veloped country-and Romania is still a
developing one, such problems as the
elimination of underdevelopment and the
establishment of a new international
economic order are matters of equal con-
cern for both our countries, because
without ensuring new relations, new
democratic relations based on equal rights
and mutual advantage, we shall not be
able to eliminate underdevelopment and
to ensure economic stability and progress
to the world.
It is also true that there are many prob-
lems on which our two countries can well
work together, and with good results, too.
And I hope that our talks will further
strengthen the basis for our mutual co-
operation, aimed at meeting their com-
mon interests of our two nations and also
meeting the aim of a better world, a
world with more justice, in which each
and every people should be able to dedi-
cate their efforts to their happiness, to
their well-being, to their freedom.
It is my conviction that all this will
come true. And once again, I should like
to express my wish to see good coopera-
tion develop between our two nations
and our wish to the friendly people of
America every success and peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. Presi-
dent Ceausescu spoke in Romanian, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
River Basin Commissions
Message to the Congress Transmitting Six
Reports. April 12, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am happy to transmit the annual re-
ports of the six river basin commissions,
as required under Section 204 (2) of the
Water Resources Planning Act of 1965.
The Act states that commissions may
be established, comprised of state and
federal members, at the request of the
governors of the states within the pro-
posed commission area. Each commission
is responsible for planning the best use of
water and related land resources in its
area and for recommending priorities for
implementation of such planning. The
commissions, through efforts to increase
public participation in the decision proc-
ess, can and do provide a forum for
all people within the commission area
to voice their ideas, concerns and
suggestions.
The commissions submitting reports
are New England, Great Lakes, Pacific
Northwest, Ohio, Missouri and Upper
Mississippi. The territory these six cover
include parts or all of 32 states.
The enclosed annual reports indicate
the activities and accomplishments of the
commissions during Fiscal Year 1976. A
brief description of current and potential
problems, studies and approaches to solu-
tions are included in the reports.
The White House,
April 12, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The reports are entitled "New Eng-
land River Basins Commission, 1976 Annual
Report," "Great Lakes Basin Commission 1976
Annual Report," "Pacific Northwest River
Basins Commission Annual Report, Fiscal Year
1976," "Ohio River Basin Commission 1976
Annual Report, Including Transition Period,"
"Missouri River Basin Commission Annual Re-
port, Fiscal 1976 and Transitional Quarter,"
and "Upper Mississippi River Basin Commis-
sion."
President's Commission on White
House Fellowships
Appointment of Ann S. Ramsay as a
Member. April 12, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Ann S. Ramsay as a
737
