Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
does that fit in with your overall plans
on inflation that is going to have some
substantial impact nationwide?
THE PRESIDENT. It fits in very poorly.
[Laughter] I think the prices that were
announced by U.S. Steel, as their plans,
are excessive. And although I've not been
thoroughly briefed on what the Council
on Wage and Price Stability has recom-
mended I will get that report today-
but I think any such increase, as I've
heard, approximately $10 a ton, is exces-
sive and does cause additional, very
serious inflationary pressures in our coun-
try, and I think is much greater than
would be warranted by the recent coal
settlement.
BRAZILIAN POLITICAL PROCESS AND HUMAN
RIGHTS
Q. [in Portuguese] I am from the State
of São Paulo. My basic question was the
same as he asked, but I'd like to know
how you view the succession here in
Brazil, and how do you view the problem
of political and civil rights in Brazil?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the type
of succession and the process through
which you choose your leaders, or your
leaders are chosen, is one to be decided
in Brazil. I'm not here to tell you how to
form your government. I have no inclina-
tion to do that. The Brazilian people are
completely aware of the process, and
that's a judgment for you to make.
Brazil, like the United States, is strug-
gling with the very difficult question of
identifying human rights and civil rights
viclations, enhancing the democratic
processes, and also encouraging confi-
dence among the people in my govern-
ment, in the United States, and in the
government here in Brazil and other
countries.
The differences that have arisen on the
human rights issue is not based upon the
lack of commitment to enhance human
rights. I think great progress has been
made in your country and also in ours.
We do have a sharp difference of opinion,
however, on how the human rights issue
should be addressed, how specific allega-
tions should be investigated, and what ac-
tion can be taken to correct any defects
that exist in your country or mine or
others.
We believe that this is an international
problem, that the focusing of world at-
tention and world pressure on us and
other countries is a very beneficial factor,
that high publicity should be given to any
proven violation of human rights. It's a
commitment that our Nation has that I
want not to abandon but to enhance and
strengthen.
Brazil, on the other hand, also strug-
gling with the same problem, trying to
give greater human rights, does not be-
lieve that the international organizations
and multinational opinions should be
marshaled. However, I do note that re-
cently Brazil did vote for an increase in
the financing of the Inter-American
Human Rights Commission.
We think that when an allegation is
made in our own country, in Brazil, in
the European countries, or wherever, that
some responsible delegation from the
Inter-American Human Rights Commis-
sion or the United Nations should go in,
get the facts, make the facts public. If
there is an actual violation, this would be
a great incentive to the government in-
volved, ours or yours or others, to correct
the defect. If the allegation is false, then
the exposition of the error or the false
allegation would be good for the world
to know.
So, I think this is a very deep and im-
portant consideration. One of the best
things about the development on human
rights in the last year or so has been the
worldwide attention to it. It was kind of
633
