Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 10
this law, each have moved us further to-
ward attainment of our nonproliferation
goals.
On April 7 and 27 of last year, I out-
lined the policies and programs which we
would implement to diminish prolifera-
tion risks. Today, I want to reaffirm this
administration's strong commitment to
that policy. We also recognize that nu-
clear power technologies now in opera-
tion, which do not involve nuclear fuel
reprocessing, can and must provide an
important source of energy for our Na-
tion and for their countries. Our current
once-through fuel cycle is and will con-
tinue to be a significant contributor to our
energy supply. Properly managed, it can
function without increasing the risks of
proliferation. Our policy takes a respons-
ible course between forgoing the energy
benefits of nuclear power and becoming
committed to commercialized use of plu-
tonium before we know that we can deal
safely with its risks.
I continue to oppose making premature
and unnecessary commitments to com-
mercialization of the fast breeder reactor
and reprocessing, as exemplified in the
United States by the Clinch River and
Barnwell projects.
We and the other nations of the world
must use the time we now have and pause
to develop safer technologies, better in-
stitutional arrangements, and improved
safeguards which will permit all nations
to achieve their energy objectives while
preventing the spread of nuclear weapons.
More than 40 nations have already
joined with us in an International Nu-
clear Fuel Cycle Evaluation to explore
and assess our means of meeting these
twin goals. During this period of exami-
nation, the uranium-fueled reactors now
in widespread operation can be used with-
out incurring new proliferation risks. If
our common search for improved institu-
tions and technologies is to be successful,
however, all nations will be required to
avoid those steps which prejudice the out-
come of the INFCE.
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act sets
the conditions and criteria which will gov-
ern U.S. cooperation with other nations
in our efforts to develop the peaceful use
of nuclear energy. The encouragement
of universal ratification of the Non-
Proliferation Treaty is central to the act,
as is the establishment of a comprehensive
set of controls, including application of
International Atomic Energy Agency
safeguards and provision of a stable
framework for international nuclear co-
operation and commerce. The act will
also make our export licensing process
more predictable.
We also will be taking steps to
strengthen the safety and security of the
fuel cycle we now have in operation and
to ensure that it continues to be an effi-
cient and reliable source of energy, both
domestically and abroad.
Over the course of this year, we will
develop comprehensive policies for man-
agement and disposal of radioactive
waste, including implementation of the
spent fuel storage program announced
last October. To ensure our ability to con-
tinue as a reliable supplier of uranium
fuel to those who share our nonprolifera-
tion objectives, we are moving ahead with
a new enrichment plant at Portsmouth,
Ohio.
Preventing nuclear proliferation will
not be easy-some have called this task
impossible. I believe, however, that halt-
ing the spread of nuclear weapons is im-
perative. We must press forward in our
efforts. Fear of failure cannot be allowed
to become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
In our first year, we have made sub-
stantial progress. The nuclear-supplying
countries have agreed upon and published
guidelines for the export of nuclear fuel
and technology. The International Nu-
501
