Apr. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
hold hearings in Oslo, beginning today,
to illuminate through public testimony
the tragic situation existing in Cambodia.
Amnesty International has issued an ap-
peal to the Cambodian Government to
respond to allegations of continuing sum-
mary killings in that country. We welcome
and applaud these initiatives.
We also welcome the recent action
taken by the United Nations Human
Rights Commission, which, this year, in
consequence of a British initiative,
adopted by consensus a resolution asking
the Cambodian Government to respond
to allegations of human rights violations.
The American Government again con-
demns the abuses of human rights which
have occurred in Cambodia. It is an ob-
ligation of every member of the interna-
tional community to protest the policies of
this or any nation which cruelly and sys-
tematically violates the right of its peo-
ple to enjoy life and basic human digni-
ties.
Withdrawal of U.S. Ground
Combat Forces From the
Republic of Korea
Statement by the President. April 21, 1978
Peace and stability on the Korean
Peninsula and in Northeast Asia are vital
I also asked the Congress last October to
approve a program to help strengthen
South Korean military capabilities, par-
ticularly legislation to authorize the trans-
fer to South Korea of a significant portion
of the equipment of our departing ground
combat forces.
In view of the crowded legislative cal-
endar, and also because of other matters
concerning Korea, there is a possibility
that the Congress may not act now on this
proposal. In the light of this development,
I believe it prudent to adjust the sched-
uled withdrawals.
-The redeployment of noncombat
elements will continue on schedule; 2,600
such personnel will be removed by De-
cember 31, 1978.
-One combat battalion from the 2d
Division will be withdrawn from Korea
in December; however, the other two
combat battalions of the brigade slated
for withdrawal this year will remain in
Korea until 1979.
-The plan to increase the U.S. air
forces in Korea will not be changed.
Peace and stability in Northeast Asia
are vital to our national interest. I urge
the Congress to enact as soon as possible
the authorization for $275 million in for-
eign military assistance credits for the
ROK, which I have also proposed, and
to move expeditiously to deal with the
$800 million equipment transfer legisla-
tion.
to our national interest. This Nation is
fully determined to maintain its commit-
ment to the Republic of Korea (ROK).
In announcing my decision to with- Natural Gas Legislation
draw our ground combat forces from
Korea over a 4-5 year period, I stressed
that it was essential to improve South
Korea defense forces so as to confidently
maintain an adequate military balance on
the peninsula. I also announced that we
will take other measures to maintain that
balance, including increasing our air
force in Korea in October of this year.
Statement by the President on the Tentative
Agreement of the Energy Conference
Committee. April 21, 1978
I am pleased and gratified that mem-
bers of the energy conference have
reached tentative agreement on natural
gas legislation. This agreement represents
a long-overdue step toward the creation
768
