Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 16
down the streets or got off the airplane
or visited a college campus with his heart
full of love, quite often he didn't see love
in the faces of the crowds who faced him,
and he didn't see love on the signs and
the banners that confronted him and his
President. He had a yearning for peace,
and we talked about the mechanisms of
peace-not always a popular subject for
a political figure in a nation as proud of
its military strength and its great influ-
ence. But in kind of a quiet and unpub-
licized way, because of what was in him,
he was the expression of the good and de-
cent and peaceful attributes of our great,
strong, powerful Nation.
He was always dedicated to breaking
the logjams in the cold war. He expressed
a deep hope that we and the Soviet Union
might reach agreements on difficult ques-
tions and resolve longstanding differences
and get to know each other and search for
a way to reduce the mad scramble for
superiority in nuclear weapons.
We talked about the Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency, set up now to nego-
tiate how we might reduce and perhaps
eliminate atomic weapons, and I discov-
ered almost by accident that the author
of that legislation was Hubert Humphrey.
We talked about the sale of military
weapons to other nations, particularly the
poor nations, the developing nations, the
hungry nations, who respond to the
temptations of technological progress and
the threats from border states and come
to us, above all others, and other nations
as well, to buy guns and ammunition to
kill.
We are trying to change that policy,
and we talked about it and the mecha-
nism under which we are trying to reduce
our own participation in the marketing of
weapons. It's his legislation.
One of the most difficult questions
that a President has to face, or even a
Member of Congress, is foreign aid. It's
not popular in our country to be for
foreign aid programs. But one of the stal-
wart defenders of our foreign aid pro-
gram, the leader in the Congress, was
Hubert Humphrey. He didn't see for-
eign aid as a giveaway program. He didn't
see foreign aid as billions of dollars going
from our Nation to others. He saw human
needs.
We talked about the sick people that he
had seen overseas, with no medical care
at all, and the unbelievable hunger that
he had seen in families where the average
income for a whole nation was sometimes
less than 25 cents a person a day.
So, he saw foreign aid as a great invest-
ment from a rich nation, a pittance
almost, compared to what we earn and
have, that builds up a wellspring of friend-
ship between us and those hungry people.
We talked about the newly developing
interest in our own Government toward
Africa, not more than a year or two old,
but it was not new to Hubert Humphrey.
He was familiar with Africa, the nations
therein, the people who live there, their
hopes and yearnings and frustrations and
desire to be something and to have their
own governments. He knew about Asia,
and he knew about Indonesia, and he
talked about these things, not as a lec-
turer, but almost as a representative of
those people, not just Minnesota. He
reached beyond our borders.
It was a long time after my mother
went to the Peace Corps that I knew that
the Peace Corps was Hubert Humphrey's
idea. It was an idea that he put forward
a long time ago, and it was eventually
adopted and put into effect when John
Kennedy was President, an opportunity
for American young people to go overseas
for, I think, $11 a month and get to know
other people and serve them. And along
with Senator McGovern, he initiated the
idea of the Food for Peace program.
81
