Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
sector, neighborhood and voluntary orga-
nizations and individual citizens.
PRIOR ACTIONS
The problems of our Nation's cities are
complex and deep-seated. They have de-
veloped gradually over a generation as a
result of private market and demographic
forces and inadvertent government ac-
tion; and the problems worsened mark-
edly during the early 1970's.
These problems will not be solved im-
mediately. They can be solved only by
the long-term commitment which I offer
today, and by the efforts of all levels of
government, the private sector and neigh-
borhood and voluntary organizations.
For my Administration, this commit-
ment began on the day I took office and
it will continue throughout my Presi-
dency. With the cooperation of Congress,
my Administration has already provided
substantial increases in funding in many
of the major urban assistance programs.
Total assistance to State and local gov-
ernments has increased by 25 percent,
from $68 billion in FY 1977 to $85 billion
in FY 1979. These increases are the direct
result of actions we have taken during the
past 14 months. They are as much a part
of my Administration's urban policy as
the initiatives which I am announcing
today. Some of the most important pro-
grams have already been enacted into law
or proposed to the Congress. These
include:
• A $2.7 billion increase over three
years in the Community Development
Block Grant Program, accompanied by
a change in the formula to provide more
assistance to the older and declining
cities.
• A $400 million a year Urban Devel-
opment Action Grant Program providing
assistance primarily to distressed cities.
• An expansion of youth and training
programs and an increase in the number
of public service employment jobs, from
325,000 to 725,000. Expenditures for em-
ployment and training doubled from FY
'77 to FY '79 to over $12 billion.
• A $400 million private sector jobs
proposal has been included in my pro-
posal to reauthorize the CETA legisla-
tion. This initiative will encourage pri-
vate businesses to hire the long-term un-
employed and the disadvantaged.
A sixty-five percent increase in grants
provided by the Economic Development
Administration to urban areas.
• A thirty percent increase in overall
Federal assistance to education, including
a $400 million increase in the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act, tar-
geted in substantial part to large city
school systems with a concentration of
children from low-income families.
• An economic stimulus package en-
acted last year, (Anti-Recession Fiscal As-
sistance, Local Public Works and CETA)
which provided almost $9 billion in addi-
tional aid to States and cities.
• A welfare reform proposal which,
upon passage, will provide immediate fis-
cal relief to State and local governments.
• A doubling of outlays for the Sec-
tion 312 housing rehabilitation loan
program.
• Creation of a consumer cooperative
bank which would provide financing as-
sistance to consumer cooperatives which
have difficulty obtaining conventional
financing.
IMPROVEMENTS IN EXISTING
PROGRAMS
The Administration's Urban and Re-
gional Policy Group (URPG) has exam-
ined all of the major urban assistance
programs and proposed improvements.
It also has worked with agencies tradi-
tionally not involved in urban policy,
such as the Defense Department, the
583
