Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
and seventy-eight, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:04 p.m., April 5, 1978]
Joint Chiefs of Staff
Nomination of Gen. David C. Jones To Be
Chairman, Gen. Lew Allen, Jr., To Be Chief
of Staff of the Air Force, and Adm. Thomas
B. Hayward To Be Chief of Naval
Operations. April 5, 1978
The President today announced the
nomination of Gen. David C. Jones, U.S.
Air Force, as Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. General Jones would suc-
ceed Gen. George S. Brown, U.S. Air
Force, whose second term in that office
ends June 30, 1978. The Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff serves at the pleasure
of the President for a term of 2 years, and
may be reappointed. He is the Nation's
highest ranking military officer.
General Jones, since 1974, has been
Chief of Staff of the United States Air
Force and a member of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff.
The President also announced two
other nominations to the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. To succeed General Jones as Chief
of Staff of the United States Air Force,
he nominated Gen. Lew Allen, Jr., U.S.
Air Force. General Allen is currently
serving as Vice Chief of Staff of the Air
Force.
To be Chief of Naval Operations, the
President nominated Adm. Thomas B.
Hayward, U.S. Navy. Admiral Hayward
at the present time is Commander in
Chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet. Admiral Hay-
ward will succeed Adm. James L. Hollo-
way III.
The Chief of Staff of the Air Force
and the Chief of Naval Operations each
serve at the pleasure of the President for
a term of 4 years.
Jones was born in Aberdeen, S. Dak.,
on July 9, 1921. He attended the Univer-
sity of North Dakota and Minot State
College until the outbreak of World War
II. He entered the Army Air Corps, be-
ginning aviation cadet training in April
1942 and receiving his commission in
February 1943.
Jones' assignments have included op-
erational and command positions in
bomber, tanker, training, and tactical
fighter units, as well as service in staff
positions in the Strategic Air Command
and Headquarters U.S. Air Force. He was
during the Korean War and accumulated
assigned to a bombardment squadron
more than 300 hours on missions over
North Korea. In 1969 he served in Viet-
nam as Deputy Commander for Opera-
tions and then as Vice Commander of the
7th Air Force. He has also served as in-
spector, operator, planner, and Com-
mander in Chief of United States Air
Forces in Europe (USAFE). Concurrent
USAFE, Jones was Commander of the
with duty as Commander in Chief,
4th Allied Tactical Air Force. Since 1974
he has been Chief of Staff of the United
States Air Force.
Allen was born September 30, 1925, in
Miami, Fla. He graduated from the U.S.
Military Academy, West Point, in 1946,
with a B.S. degree and commission as a
second lieutenant. He was assigned to
Strategic Air Command from 1946 to
1950, and then received an M.S. (1952)
and Ph. D. (1954) from the University
of Illinois in physics.
From 1954 to 1957, he was assigned to
Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, where
he served as a physicist. From 1957 to
1961, he was science advisor to the Phys-
ics Division of the Air Force Weapons
684
