Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
concern about the duration of the coal
strike. I wonder what extent you share
that concern and whether you might see
the necessity to use Taft-Hartley.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are very
hopeful that the coal mine operators and
the United Coal Workers will expedite a
resolution of their differences. This past
weekend the news was not good. I see no
immediate prospect of having to exercise
the Taft-Hartley provisions. It only pro-
vides for the President the authority to
intercede if the national security is in
danger. And we certainly have not arrived
at that point yet.
There are some things that we can do,
and I've discussed them with the entire
Cabinet this morning and, of course, with
Secretary Schlesinger in particular. The
gaseous diffusion plants for the production
of atomic fuels, for instance, are heavy
users of energy. We are reducing the
power consumed by them.
There is a need for citizens who live in
the heavily hit regions, because of the
snowstorms, to cut down on consumption
of energy because transportation won't let
even the available supplies come into those
regions. But I have no present intention at
all of trying to intercede nor to exercise
my authority under the Taft-Hartley Act.
NUCLEAR-POWERED SATELLITES
Q. Mr. President, regarding your con-
cern about satellites and the safety pre-
cautions, in taking this up with the Rus-
sians, will you try to dissuade them from
their practice of putting nuclear reactors
into space in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, certainly in
Earth orbit. I think that this is something
that we should explore. There are two
factors though. One is to try to evolve a
sure-fire safety requirement that would
prevent a recurrence of any atomic active
material reaching the Earth or the atmos-
phere where human beings might breathe
it. If we cannot evolve those fail-safe
methods, then I think there ought to be a
total prohibition against Earth-orbiting
satellites.
I would favor at this moment an agree-
ment with the Soviets to prohibit Earth-
orbiting satellites with atomic radiation
material in them.
SOVIET COSMOS SATELLITE
Q. Mr. President, do you have any idea
what the deal is on that satellite up there?
We get all these reports. One day it's not
radioactive; the next day it is. Do you
have any late information about just what
the status of that thing is? Or whether
there is any danger?
The President. No, I know nothing at
this point that hasn't already been put
into the press. One, I do know that
they've located a crater, about a 9-foot di-
mension, that it is radioactive, and that a
search group from one of our own heli-
copters working with the Canadians is at
the site. But the configuration of the re-
mains of the satellite or whether or not
they are now retrieving it from the river-
bed where it's located, I do not know.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, last August in your
immigration message, you said you were
not considering reintroduction of a bra-
cero-type program for the temporary im-
portation of farm workers.
Last week, Secretary Bergland down in
Mexico City had an airport press confer-
ence at which he apparently gave some
Mexican newspapers the idea that we
were considering such a program and
were considering importing 3 million bra-
ceros, and they've been writing a lot of
stories about it. He has tried to deny it.
Could you state your position on it, sir?
248
