Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 3
Denver, Colorado
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for
Senator Floyd K. Haskell. May 3, 1978
Senator Hart, Governor Lamm, Ccn-
gressman Tim Wirth, who's here some-
where, Mayor McNichols, Chairman
Sheila Kowal, all of the distinguished
Coloradans who are here:
I'm here in support of solar energy;
I'm here in support of Colorado. But pri-
marily tonight, I'm here in support of
one of the great Senators of all time,
Floyd Haskell.
It's an honor for me to come and visit
your State again. I want to talk primarily
tonight about a man who represents the
finest aspect of America and American
politics, a man who has a great deal of in-
fluence. There are not very many Mem-
bers, even of the United States Senate,
who could bring to Colorado the Secre-
tary of Agriculture and the Secretary of
Interior without even trying very hard.
We have now a need to understand the
comparisons between the Western part
of our country and the Eastern. I grew up
in an area which understood very clearly
the differences between the North and the
South. Lately, since agriculture, water,
energy, environment became crucial is-
sues in our country, I've seen these divi-
sions arising between the Western part of
our country and the East. One solution
that's been presented by Dr. Zbigniew
Brzezinski is to sell jet planes to both sides.
[Laughter] But I think that we've got
a better solution than that, and that is
to elect and reelect to public office people
who know what our Nation has been,
know what its greatness is today, and to
know how to make it even greater in the
future.
This afternoon I met with a group of
farmers who came to talk to me about
some of the problems that exist in Ameri-
can agriculture, that came to complain
about some of the policies of our admin-
istration with which, I might say, Floyd
Haskell disagrees. But one of the farm-
ers said that the most important reason
for us to have an acceptable program
for American farmers is to keep in
office a Democrat like Floyd Haskell who,
as the farmer said, is a quiet man, a man
of deep beliefs, a man of great political
courage, a man who does his homework
in Colorado and his legislative work built
modest, a man who is effective, a man
upon it in Washington, a man who is
who has an inner strength and, more im-
portant of all, the farmer told me this
afternoon, a man who knows and loves
his fellow human beings.
Long before I was elected President, I
knew about Floyd Haskell, because in the
early days when public officials were be-
ginning to become concerned about the
war in Vietnam, there was a member of
the State legislature named Floyd Has-
kell who, without publicity and without
fanfare, said, "This is not right, I cannot
abide it. And in my own individual way,
I will do all I can to get our Nation out of
a war which is sapping the strength and
the commitment and the spirit of Ameri-
can people."
And because of that quiet demonstra-
tion of courage, as you well know, he ap-
pealed to the people of Colorado and, in
an unexpected election result, he became
a United States Senator who's carried
that quiet courage to Washington to rep-
resent you, and I'm thankful for it.
He believes in peace through strength,
not just military strength, which is im-
portant, but the strength of a character of
American people.
When I began to speak out during the
campaign for the ending of the spread of
nuclear explosives throughout the world,
nonproliferation, I discovered that Floyd
Haskell was already in the forefront of
827
