Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 14
observance of the Year. The Commission
shall consult with, and stimulate activities
and programs through, community, civic,
State, regional, national Federal and in-
ternational organizations.
(d) The Commission may conduct
studies, inquiries, hearings and meetings
as it deems necessary. It may assemble
and disseminate information, issue re-
ports and other publications. It may also
coordinate, sponsor, or oversee projects,
studies, events and other activities that it
deems necessary or desirable for the ob-
servance of 1979 as the International Year
of the Child.
(e) The Commission shall make recom-
mendations to the President on national
policies for improving the well-being of
children; shall issue periodic reports on
discrete areas of the rights and needs of
children; and shall submit, no later than
November 30, 1978, an interim report to
the President on its work and tentative
recommendations.
SEC. 3. Resources, Assistance, and Co-
operation. (a) The Commission may
establish subcommittees. Private citizens
who are not members of the Commission
may be included as members of subcom-
mittees.
(b) The Commission may request any
Executive agency to furnish such infor-
mation, advice, services, and funds as may
be useful for the fulfillment of the Com-
mission's functions under this order. Each
such agency is authorized, to the extent
permitted by law and within the limits of
available funds, to furnish such informa-
tion, advice, services, and funds to the
Commission upon request of the Chair-
man of the Commission.
(c) The Commission is authorized to
appoint and fix the compensation of a
staff and such other persons as may be
necessary to enable it to carry out its
functions. The Commission may obtain
services in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3109 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, to the extent funds are avail-
able therefore.
(d) Each member of the Commission
and its subcommittees may receive, to the
extent permitted by law, compensation for
each day he or she is engaged officially
in meetings of the Commission or its sub-
committees at a rate not to exceed the
daily rate now or hereafter prescribed by
law for GS-15 of the General Schedule;
and, may also receive travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703) for persons in the government serv-
ice employed intermittently.
SEC. 4. Coordination. (a) The heads of
Executive agencies shall designate an
agency representative for purposes of co-
ordinating agency support for the national
observance of the International Year of
the Child, 1979. The Co-Chairmen, des-
ignated by the Secretaries of State and
Health, Education, and Welfare, of the
Interagency Committee for the Interna-
tional Year of the Child should act as ad-
visers to, and coordinate activities with,
the Chairman of the Commission.
(b) The General Services Admin-
istration shall provide administrators serv-
ices, facilities, and support to the Com-
mission on a reimburseable basis.
(c) The functions of the President
under the Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of re-
porting annually to the Congress, which
are applicable to the Commission, shall be
performed by the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services as provided by Executive
Order No. 12024 of December 1, 1977.
SEC. 5. Final Report and Termination.
The Commission shall conclude its work
and submit a final report to the President,
including its recommendations for im-
proving the well-being of children, at least
747
