May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of them think so, then their proximity to
me is a voluntary matter.
NATIONAL WATER POLICY
Q. Connie Thompson with KOMO
Television in Seattle, Washington. With
growing pressure on your administration
not to drastically reform the Nation's
water policy, and also in light of the criti-
cal water supply picture, what, or how
much of a reform do you plan to make
in the Nation's water policy? What would
be the reasons for any changes in your
earlier plan for reform in that policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Long before I became
President, there was a growing series of
conflicts in this country concerning the
use of water-conflicts between native
Americans and white Americans; conflicts
between environmentalists and those who
desire increased power production from
damming up free-flowing streams; con-
flicts between agricultural users, primarily
for irrigation, and the producers of
minerals and, particularly, fuel, like
coal-and many of these longstanding dis-
putes had begun to reach a crisis stage,
resulting in interminable lawsuits, divi-
siveness, arguments, debates. And also,
there had never been created in our coun-
try a comprehensive water policy that was
evolved through close consultation among
those conflicting groups.
We had never, either, had a way for
Governors, mayors, Members of Con-
gress, the President, the Cabinet, to con-
sult with one another, to say, this is what
we hope to do in the future with the
water supplies that we have. And we've
never had a way to set priorities on the ex-
penditure of Federal and other funds.
Quite often we have approved, in the
Congress, dams and other water projects
that had a very low benefit-cost ratio.
Sometimes they cost much more than the
total benefits ever to be derived from a
water project, because a Member of Con-
gress had enough seniority or influence
or the patience to wait for his or her proj-
ect to get to the top of the list and be fi-
nanced with public funds. There's a
limited amount of money that can be
spent for these very expensive water proj-
ects. And I want to be sure that when we
do approve a project—and there will be
many approved, I'm sure, in the future
under my administration and others—
that the most needed projects are the ones
that get funded first, and that we don't
continue to waste money on projects that
are not needed and that are wasteful and,
sometimes, even dangerous.
So, I think the evolution of the water
policy is a very constructive thing. It's
long overdue. We will have the water
policy options presented to me when I get
back to Washington. This next week my
own staff and Secretary Andrus will be
meeting with the staff, Members of Con-
gress, and also the Governors, and the
following week I will meet with the West-
ern Governors. And then I will make a
decision on what the water policy of our
country should be. Many of those deci-
sions will have to later be considered by
Congress.
But I think the whole process is a very
constructive one, long overdue, badly
needed, to be sure we do harness water
and use water to the best advantage in
the future, protecting the interests of the
people who are involved.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Are you willing to compromise on
the number of warplanes you propose to
sell to Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Israel
in order to achieve congressional approval
of those sales? And the second part of my
question is, do you see the same linkage
between Saudi Arabian support of the
American dollar and oil prices that Sheik
Yamani did last week when he looked at
the sale?
848
