Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the host of the leaders of the world who
have assessed the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe, known as the
Helsinki agreement. He will later be the
host, this year, in Yugoslavia of a meeting
of the foreign ministers of the nonaligned
nations.
He's a man who has understood for a
long time our own Nation's commitment
to détente and the true significance of this
misunderstood word. He realizes and has
told me in frequent, personal communica-
tions that he understands that détente
must be comprehensive, that it must be
reciprocal in nature, and it must be a dem-
onstration constantly by the super powers
of mutual restraint and a constant search
for peace.
President Tito is a leader who has such
great respect that he's able to bridge the
gap of communications and understand-
ing between nations and leaders who quite
often have difficulty in dealing with one
another. Within the last 9 months, he has
made major visits to many countries and
many capitals, including Moscow, Peking,
and now Washington.
Perhaps as much as any other person,
he exemplifies in Yugoslavia the eager-
ness for freedom, independence, and
liberty that exists throughout Eastern
Europe and indeed throughout the world.
He and the people of Yugoslavia are rec-
ognized by our own country as worthy of
admiration. We understand that the in-
dependence and the territorial integrity of
Yugoslavia is one of the basic foundations
of world peace now and in the future.
He's been an inspiration to the people
of his own country and to others in his
constant insistence on this freedom and
independence. The people of Yugoslavia
have in a unique way recognized their
own willingness to sacrifice to the ulti-
mate degree for the freedom of their own
country. Within the Yugoslavian Consti-
tution itself, there is a direct prohibition
which forbids capitulation to any other
outside force.
And finally, President Tito is the leader
of a modern, prosperous country. He's a
friend of the United States. He's been
helpful to me through constant consulta-
tion, has given me advice and constructive
reports as a result of his trips around the
world and his free communication and
mutual confidence with other world
leaders.
The trade and commerce between our-
selves and Yugoslavia's people is valuable
to us. We hope to see it expanded in the
future.
So, President Tito, on behalf of the
people of our Nation, we welcome you to
our shores, to our country, as a true friend.
PRESIDENT TITO. Mr. President, may I
thank you warmly for your friendly words
of welcome. I am very pleased to have
this opportunity to visit again the United
States of America in response to your kind
invitation. The peoples of Yugoslavia and
the American people are linked with
bonds of traditional friendship born in
times of great trial and hardships they
have gone through in their histories. I am
looking forward in particular to having a
broad exchange of views with you, Mr.
President, and to meeting also other
American statesmen, Congressmen, and
prominent personalities. We highly value
contacts and political dialog with Amer-
ican leaders.
In the last few years, Yugoslav-
American relations have been developing
and expanding gradually, but very suc-
cessfully, the differences of view on cer-
tain international questions not being an
obstacle for the further strengthening of
cooperation between the Governments
and our friendship between the peoples of
the two countries. The development of
our bilateral relations has shown that
through mutual efforts and good will,
474
