Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
U.N. RESOLUTION 242
Q. Mr. President, on the Middle East,
the State Department today reaffirmed
that U.N. Security Council Resolution
242 remains, in our view, the bedrock of
our effort to bring peace to that area and
more or less served notice on the Israeli
Government not to take any decision to
renounce that. Could you state for us
what your understanding or your inter-
pretation of Security Council Resolution
242 is and what your understanding of
the Israeli position on this is?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, United Nations
Resolution 242 was passed about 10 years
ago. Since then it has been endorsed with
practically no equivocation by our own
country, by the entire international com-
munity, by the Israeli Governments, and
by the Arab countries who border on
Israel. It calls for the withdrawal of
Israel from territories occupied in the
1967 war. It calls for the restoration of
security of Israel behind recognized and
defensible borders. And this has been the
basis on which all of our efforts since
I've been in office, and also my predeces-
sors' efforts, have been based.
For any nation now to reject the ap-
plication of 242 to the occupied terri-
tories, including the West Bank, the
Sinai, the Golan Heights, would be a very
serious blow to the prospects of peace in
the Middle East.
In addition to the principles that I've
just described to you, we've also been
working with complete commitment and
with some substantial success, particularly
in the case of Egypt, to ensure that Israel
will not only be blessed with a cessation
of hostilities but also with a full restora-
tion of peace, open borders, diplomatic
relations, free trade, exchange of tourism
and students, and cultural exchanges.
This is a prospect that we still have. But
the abandonment of United Nations Res-
olution 242 as it applies to the West Bank
and other occupied territories would be
a very serious blow to the prospects of
peace and a complete reversal of the pol-
icy of the Israeli Government and other
governments in the area.
LIAISON WITH JEWISH AMERICANS
Q. Mr. President, have you given
thought to abolishing the job of liaison
with the Jewish community-the task of
the job?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We have many
members of our administration who work
directly with Jewish Americans who are
interested particularly in the Middle East
and other similar matters of interest to
other groups in our country.
I meet frequently with groups of Jew-
ish Americans who come to the White
House. So does the Vice President, the
Secretary of State does at the State De-
partment, Dr. Brzezinski, Hamilton Jor-
dan, Stu Eizenstat, and so has Mark
Siegel.
So, we have a concerted effort to pre-
sent our views and to receive the views of
those interested parties. And I think one
of the most crucial elements of a success-
ful achievement of peace in the Middle
East is to continue those consultations,
and we will of course do that.
Q. But isn't it discriminatory at all—
isn't it discriminatory? I understand
there are some 2 million Arabs in this
country. Do you give this kind of con-
sideration to them?
THE PRESIDENT. I have also met, I
should have said, with Arab leaders from
all over the country on the same subject.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, you have spoken
many times of the commitment that the
United States has for the security of
Israel. In 1975, in September, the Sinai
II agreement said specifically that the
491
