Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the rest of the developing world generally.
The problems of development of these
countries are of such immense dimensions
that they demand global perspectives and
strategies because, as we have all seen, the
conventional and piecemeal approach of
donors and receivers of aid and technical
assistance has proved itself totally inade-
quate. A completely fresh approach,
therefore, may serve to emphasize the in-
terdependence of our resources and, hope-
fully, also stem the tide of deep frustration
that now pervades the underprivileged
half of the world and which the developed
world sees as lack of opposition of their
efforts.
We believe in this regard that what we
require is a fundamental restructuring of
the international economic system to mod-
ify drastically and modernize the rules
governing international trade, access to
markets and development capital, the un-
impeded flow of technology, and a dem-
onstration of a greater sense of commit-
ment and political will on the part of all
concerned to concretize the demands of
a new international economic order.
Unfortunately, there has so far been no
demonstrable evidence of that sense of
commitment or even of concern at in-
ternational forums, where discussions are
currently proceeding on relief for the
least developed countries, or agreement on
an acceptable form of common fund to
provide a mechanism for ensuring unin-
terrupted and regular flow of earnings for
the exports of the Third World.
Your country, Mr. President, has the
necessary capacity and the influence and
is well placed to play a leading role in this
regard. We can bring the developed and
developing worlds together in the har-
monious cooperation to inspire reforms
and to adopt new development initiatives.
We share your concern about the dan-
gerous, high level of armament and about
the enormous economic resources con-
sumed by the armament race.
We continue to follow the progress of
the strategic arms limitation talks, and we
hope that there will be an early agreement
that will lead to a reduction in the pro-
duction and stockpiling of armaments and
subsequent freeing of more resources of
the world for social programs that will di-
rectly lead to improvement of quality of
life, especially in developing countries.
Mr. President, let me end by saying
once again what a great pleasure it has
been for the Nigerian Government and
people to welcome you and Mrs. Carter.
We hope that even in spite of its brevity,
your visit has nevertheless offered you
some closer, personal insight into our con-
ditions and our way of life.
As you leave our shores after this his-
toric visit to Africa, you do so, Mr. Presi-
dent, with the sincere good wishes of the
Government and people of Nigeria and
the appreciation of the value of your
memorable visit here.
Your Excellencies, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to
kindly join me in drinking a toast to the
United States of America, to the
strengthening of relations and friendship
between the Nigerian and American peo-
ples, and to the personal good health and
well-being of President Jimmy Carter and
Mrs. Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. General Obasanjo
and distinguished officials of the Military
Government of Nigeria, officials from
other countries, including our own, and
ladies and gentlemen, and friends:
Yesterday I had an opportunity to
speak at your great civic center to several
thousand people assembled there by the
Institute on Political Studies. I spelled out
the position of our own Nation as it rel-
ates to the interrelationship between our-
selves and Nigeria, and to Africa, in par-
658
