Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
lations and other programmatic reforms,
and expanded SBA loan authority.
MEETING OUR NATION'S HUMAN NEEDS
This Administration's constant concern
has been with meeting the human needs
of all Americans. Over the past year, we
have moved on a number of fronts to
make certain our citizens will be well
housed, better educated, and properly
cared for when they are in need. This
year we will pursue our current initiatives
in these areas and launch new ones.
HEALTH
This past year we were very active in
the effort to improve the health of our
citizens and to restrain skyrocketing
health care costs, through:
-Establishment of a Mental Health
Commission to help develop a na-
tional mental health program. The
Commission will issue its final report
later this year, and I expect to care-
fully consider the Commission's
findings.
-A campaign to immunize the more
than 20 million children not yet pro-
tected against communicable child-
hood diseases.
-Reorganization of part of HEW to
allow more efficient delivery of
Medicare/Medicaid services. The
cost savings from the reorganizations
will be realized more fully this year.
-Signing legislation to attack fraud
and abuse in Medicare/Medicaid
programs.
-Signing legislation to make Medi-
care/Medicaid reimbursement avail-
able to physician extenders in rural
clinics. The beneficial effects of that
bill will be felt in our Nation's rural
areas for the first time this year.
In 1978, the Administration will con-
tinue these and other efforts to bring us
better and less costly health care.
Hospital Cost Containment
One of my main legislative goals for
this year is the Hospital Cost Contain-
ment Bill. That bill, which would save
hospital users more than $7 billion in the
first two years after enactment, is our
principal weapon in the effort to decrease
health care costs, which now double every
five years.
National Health Insurance
I will submit to Congress later this year
a National Health Insurance proposal.
While Congress will not have the time to
complete action on this proposal in 1978,
it is important to begin the national de-
bate on the many complex issues involved
in National Health Insurance.
National Health Insurance will not
solve all our health problems. A sensible
national health policy also requires more
effective delivery of preventive services,
better nutrition, vigorous abatement of
environmental and occupational threats
to health, and efforts to change individual
lifestyles that endanger health.
But National Health Insurance is a
crucial step. It will protect our people
from ruinous medical bills and provide
each citizen with better access to sound
and balanced health insurance coverage.
Medicaid Improvements for Children
Last year I proposed the Child Health
Assessment Program to improve the early
and preventive screening, diagnosis and
treatment program for lower-income chil-
dren under Medicaid. The Administra-
tion will press for enactment of this meas-
ure, and will urge its expansion to make
an additional 1.7 million lower-income
children eligible.
103
