Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 24
Within the executive branch of Gov-
ernment, I have asked the Vice President
to chair a high-level task force to provide
continuing focus and coordination for a
national effort to reduce youth unemploy-
ment. This is one of the rare times that
I've asked the Vice President to take a
specific assignment of this kind. Ordinarily
he helps me with more general subjects
and is kind of an assistant President. But
in this particular case, I believe that the
problems of youth unemployment are bad
enough to ask him to take on this special
assignment.
This task force which he heads will in-
clude the Secretaries of each of the major
Federal agencies with direct program re-
sponsibilities: Ray Marshall, Secretary of
Labor; Joe Califano, Secretary of HEW;
Juanita Kreps, who is the Secretary of
Commerce; Mike Blumenthal, Secretary
of the Treasury; and of course, Pat Har-
ris, who is Secretary of HUD. Four of
those Cabinet Secretaries are behind me
now on the stage, and they will be working
very closely with you. Joe Califano and
Mike Blumenthal couldn't be here yet.
They may be here later this afternoon.
And in the private sector, I've asked the
National Alliance of Businessmen to pro-
vide leadership within the business com-
munity and technical assistance at the
local level.
This new partnership in employment
policy exemplifies our entire urban pro-
gram, government and the private sector
working together for the common good.
But the progress will only be as success-
ful as efforts at the local level make it. We
can't manage this program effectively
from Washington.
I pledge the wholehearted support of
my entire administration in reaching the
continuing and often moving goal of put-
ting America back to work. And it's with
a great deal of assurance that I as Presi-
dent put my confidence in you and
understand that a major portion of the
success of this effort will depend on the
degree of enthusiasm that you show for
this program.
Nothing that you could do could be
more contributive to a better America
and, at the same time, your own profits.
And the people who look to you for lead-
ership will be gratified. So it's a good part-
nership. I think we'll all enjoy the chal-
lenge, and I have no doubt that we'll meet
that challenge successfully.
Thank you very much. I'll leave now
and let you to go to work, and I will join
you tonight for the celebration. Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:05 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House to a group
of business, labor, community, and government
executives assembled to discuss the program.
Following the meeting, the President hosted
a dinner for the participants in the State Din-
ing Room at the White House.
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Letter to Members of the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee.
May 23, 1978
The most pressing problem facing this
Nation is inflation. And one of its most
important causes is the precipitous rise in
health care costs. Over the last three years,
inflation in the health care industry has
been 12 times greater than the rate of in-
crease for all consumer prices.
The most important immediate step this
Nation can take to hold down the intol-
erable rise in health costs is to pass legis-
lation containing hospital costs-which
constitute 40% of health costs and which
have been rising about 2½ times faster
than the national rate of inflation.
961
