Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 6
Before being appointed Governor last
fall, he had been elected to 13 consecu-
tive terms as secretary of state, and he
had become one of the most popular and
well-respected men in the State.
The last week of his life was a time of
particular fulfillment for Governor Bolin,
as he came to Washington to represent
his State at the National Governors' Con-
ference. He dined with us at the White
House and danced with Rosalynn to be-
gin the evening's entertainment. We join
the many others who knew the warmth of
his personality and are saddened by his
death.
Labor Disputes in the Coal
Industry
Executive Order 12042. March 6, 1978
CREATING A BOARD OF INQUIRY TO
REPORT ON LABOR DISPUTES AFFECT-
ING THE BITUMINOUS COAL INDUSTRY
IN THE UNITED STATES
The existing labor disputes between
coal mine operators engaged in the pro-
duction of bituminous coal in the United
States or coal mine contractors engaged
in construction work in and around coal
mines in the United States and certain of
of their employees represented by the
United Mine Workers of America and its
locals and affiliates have resulted in
strikes in a substantial portion of the coal
industry. In my judgment these strikes af-
fect a substantial portion of the bitumi-
nous coal industry, an industry engaged
in trade, commerce, transportation and
transmission among the States and with
foreign nations, and will, if permitted to
continue, imperil the national health and
safety.
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the
authority vested in me by Section 206 of
the Labor Management Relations Act of
1947, 61 Stat. 155, as amended (29
U.S.C. 176), I hereby create a Board of
Inquiry to inquire into the issues involved
in the dispute. I appoint as members of
that Board:
John N. Gentry, Chairman
Eva Robins
Carl A. Warns
The Board shall have the powers and
duties set forth in Title II of the Labor
Management Relations Act and shall re-
port to me, in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Act, as expeditiously as
possible. Upon submission of its report,
the Board shall continue in existence to
perform the functions required of it un-
der the Act.
The White House,
March 6, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:34 p.m., March 6, 1978]
Labor Disputes in the
Coal Industry
Remarks Announcing Invocation of the Taft-
Hartley Act. March 6, 1978
A majority of the United Mine
Workers have now rejected the negoti-
ated coal contract. I'm disappointed that
this agreement was not approved. But I
recognize that the United Mine Workers'
system of collective bargaining requires
approval by union members before a con-
tract can take effect.
My policy has been to do everything
possible to help the collective bargaining
process produce a settlement. But this re-
jection by the United Mine Workers' col-
lective bargaining is now at an impasse.
The coal strike is 3 months old. The
country cannot afford to wait any longer.
Coal supplies have been reduced to a
critical level throughout the Midwest.
469
