Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 7
of mutual confidence and respect, and
thereby also for a constructive contribu-
tion to the creation of better conditions
in the world.
I am convinced—and your words, Mr.
President, encourage me in it that this
visit and our talks will serve these objec-
tives in the best possible manner.
While speaking of the tradition of our
friendship and the invaluable links be-
tween our two countries, I should like to
recall the exceptional contribution to it
made by many Yugoslavs who found in
your country their new homeland, and
who have been devoting their talents and
work and who continue to devote them
to the development of your country and
to the well-being of mankind.
Mr. President, in the endeavors to-
wards peace, stability, and progress to-
day, détente is undoubtedly that major
preoccupation of both the United States
and Yugoslavia, as well as of almost all
countries in the world.
We are deeply convinced that détente
can fulfill the expectations of all the peo-
ples of our planet if it becomes a uni-
versal process and if it encompasses all
the burning problems of the day-first
and foremost political, military, and eco-
nomic as at present, we live in a world
of such interdependence that its fate is
ultimately common.
Crises and problems necessarily affect
everybody by the same token as the prog-
ress and achievements of each people be-
come the possession and inspiration of the
entire humanity. It is for this reason that
we deem it indispensable that parallel
with avoiding confrontations between big
powers, basic problems of development
should be resolved, as well as those in the
field of disarmament, that the policy of
power and interference into the internal
affairs of others should be eliminated
from international relations, and that the
efforts of all countries should be aimed
at the overcoming of bloc and other divi-
sions in the world, as well as the estab-
lishment of a new and more just inter-
national economic order.
All these problems bear on the vital in-
terests of the whole mankind. Widely ac-
ceptable solutions have to be found to
them if we are to secure survival, peace-
ful development, and prosperity for
everybody.
I should like to point out that Yugo-
slavia, like many other countries, is es-
pecially interested in the elimination of
existing focal points of armed conflicts
which at any time may become the source
of new, still greater crises of widest pro-
portions.
Particularly worrying at the present
juncture is the crisis in the Middle East,
which is increasing tension in the region
of the whole Mediterranean. Any com-
plication or any further aggravation of
the situation in the Middle East consti-
tutes and this we are profoundly con-
vinced of constitutes an extremely seri-
ous threat to peace and security in this
region, with consequences affecting a
wide range of countries.
We have been pointing out on numer-
ous occasions our views, founded on the
decisions of the United Nations and non-
aligned countries, on the irreplaceable
ways for bringing about a just and dur-
able solution to the crisis and thereby also
for the creation of the indispensable pre-
conditions for the security and coopera-
tion of all the countries and all the peo-
ples in the region.
Here I would just like to point out
that it would be extremely dangerous in-
deed to allow the possibility of having the
policy of force and forceable acquisition
of foreign territories—those in the Mid-
dle East or anywhere else in the world-
even partly pay.
477
