May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
yours for the future; in commuter car-
pooling, to save energy of all kinds; in
pricing, rates to reduce peak load use; in
advancing pollution control, which is
necessary and has an increasingly com-
plex technology; and in so many other
areas, TVA is showing the way for the
rest of the Nation.
Every American can take pride in what
you have done and what you will do in
the future. When the legislation to create
TVA was signed by President Roosevelt,
he said the new agency should be charged
with the broadest duty of planning for
the proper use, conservation, and devel-
opment of the natural resources of the
Tennessee Valley region.
I believe that is still the central part of
TVA's even broader role today. We still
need more effective planning for this
country's future course. And I cannot
imagine a job better suited to the origins
and the traditions of the Tennessee Valley
Authority.
TVA has harnessed the Tennessee
River for the benefit of its people. And
it has built an energy system that is the
finest in the Nation. Your people have
prospered because of this.
Now as you move past the national av-
erage in material wealth and employment
for people who live in your region, for-
merly quite depressed compared to the
rest of the country, I want to leave you
with an even greater challenge. You can
provide an alternative to the congested,
polluted, unstabilized super-cities of
tomorrow. Your planned industrial
growth can help disperse population, cre-
be a model for the rest of our Nation.
The people of the Tennessee Valley
have a chance to demonstrate that full
employment can be achieved without de-
stroying the quality of the land or destroy-
ing the Earth.
If the Tennessee Valley can demon-
strate a combination of big salaries and
prosperity and a clean, friendly atmos-
phere of southern community living in the
years ahead, then you will be an example
to all Americans. You're already well on
the road to such success. If President
Franklin Roosevelt, Senator George Nor-
ris, and the other farsighted leaders who
worked to establish TVA could be here
again to see its current success, they would
be as pleased as I am with the new pro-
grams TVA is undertaking in the na-
tional interest.
As was the case 45 years ago, you face
great opportunities for sustained and ben-
eficial growth, designed to conserve and
not to waste, destined to lift the economic
prosperity and the human spirit of those
you serve.
On behalf of the people of the United
States of America, I thank you for what
you have done.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in
the auditorium of the Civic Coliseum. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mayors Ran-
dell L. Tyree of Knoxville and A. K. Bissell
of Oak Ridge, Ned McWherter, speaker of the
Tennessee house of representatives, and Au-
brey J. Wagner, former Chairman, and S.
David Freeman, Chairman of the Board of
Directors, Tennessee Valley Authority.
ating new opportunities outside the ma- Oak Ridge, Tennessee
jor metropolitan centers in your own rap-
idly growing, prosperous communities.
The people who fill your new jobs can
still have access to open space, to green
fields and forests and lakes and streams.
And so you have the opportunity to create
living and working arrangements that can
Remarks at a Roundtable Discussion With
Oak Ridge National Laboratory Scientists.
May 22, 1978
Well, the first thing I want to say is that
I'm very proud to be at Oak Ridge with
all of you.
948
