Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 27
tween the Vice President and Senator
Humphrey, I've asked him to make a few
comments about this. I particularly want
to congratulate Senator Muriel Hum-
phrey for the great work she and her
husband did together. And Wendell
Anderson is here associated with this.
I think this is a good bipartisan dem-
onstration of the fact that both Repub-
licans and Democrats in the Congress,
when working in harmony, can further
the purposes of our Nation for the best
interests of the whole world. Both Sena-
tor Humphrey and Senator Dirksen were
interested not only in domestic affairs
in the finest sense of the word but also
were interested in international matters.
And to honor these two great men with
these institutes for further study and
analysis will be an additional benefit de-
rived from their lives for the people of
the United States.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. It was my priv-
ilege to serve for several years with
Senator Dirksen, and we became very
close friends. He was many things, but
I've never known anybody on the Senate
floor who, when he spoke, drew a more
interested crowd than did Senator Dirk-
sen. He always made the Senate an in-
teresting institution. He loved it; he serv-
ed it through most of his political career.
And on his passing, I don't know of any-
body who had more friends than did Sen-
ator Dirksen.
We asked Senator Baker to be with us
today, but he is in Geneva for consulta-
tions in our crucial SALT talks there. And
battle, and I consider the matter of enor-
mous pride and enormous privilege that
I was permitted to live and to serve in
public life as a close friend of one of the
greatest public servants ever to serve in
the history of our country.
And I'm grateful that the Congress has
made these grants now in the memory of
these two Senators. And it's the right kind
of memorial. This will go for research, it
will go for training. It will train new pub-
lic leaders and scholars in political science,
in public affairs, and is the kind of living
memorial I am sure Muriel and Hubert
wanted, I know that the Baker family
wants for Senator Dirksen.
So, I'm delighted to be here, and thank
the Congress for their help.
THE PRESIDENT. I know you are proud
of your grandfather, and Muriel obviously
is proud of her husband. Now I would
like to sign these.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Thank you very much. Congratula-
tions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 a.m. at the
signing ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the
White House.
As enacted, S. 2452 is Public Law 95-270,
approved April 27. The bill authorizes grants
of $5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, to
the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public
Affairs, located at the University of Minnesota
in Minneapolis-St. Paul, and the Everett Mc-
Kinley Dirksen Congressional Leadership Re-
search Center in Pekin, Ill.
we are pleased that we have Darek and Federal Audiovisual Programs
Cynthia Baker with us, their children,
who are here representing their mother
and father at this important event.
And, of course, our relationship with
Senator Humphrey is well known. As I
said some time back, he served almost as
my surrogate father for years. We stood
together in every conceivable kind of
Announcement of Results Following
Administration Review of the Programs.
April 27, 1978
The administration today announced
the results of a year-long review of Fed-
eral audiovisual programs. It released a
report identifying areas of waste and in-
785
