June 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment with State and local governments.
The Lowell National Historic Park will
be administered by the National Park
Service, while the Lowell Historic Pres-
ervation District, adjacent to the park,
will remain under the jurisdiction of the
city of Lowell.
The bill creates a Lowell Historic Pres-
ervation Commission to advise the city in
its stewardship of the historic properties
within this district. The Commission will
comprise 15 members representing local,
State, and Federal governments. It will be
authorized to make low-interest loans and
grants for the restoration and preservation
of properties.
I want to thank Representative Paul
Tsongas, Senator Edward Kennedy, and
Senator Edward Brooke for their dedi-
cated work on this legislation.
The enactment of this bill into law will
preserve a portion of America's history for
the perpetual enjoyment of our people.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11662 is Public Law
95-290, approved June 5.
United States Court of Military
Appeals Nominating
Commission
Executive Order 12063. June 5, 1978
nating Commission. The Commission
shall be comprised of six members ap-
pointed by the President.
1-102. Not more than three members
shall be officials of the Federal govern-
ment. The Federal members shall include
the General Counsel of the Department
of Defense, who shall chair the Commis-
sion. The private members shall be se-
lected from among those in the legal
profession.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. When notified by the President
that he desires its assistance in filling a
vacancy on the United States Court of
Military Appeals, the Commission shall
conduct inquiries to identify persons who
may be qualified to serve in the position
and shall conduct further inquiries to de-
termine those persons' qualifications.
1-202. In conducting its inquiries the
Commission shall follow any procedures
or criteria established by the President in
his letter of notification or by the Secre-
tary of Defense acting on behalf of the
President.
1-203. The Commission shall submit a
report to the President and to the Secre-
tary of Defense within 60 days from the
date it is notified by the President that he
desires its assistance. The report shall list
the names of no more than five persons
whom the Commission considers well
By the authority vested in me as Presi- qualified to serve in the position.
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in
order to create in accordance with the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I) an advisory commission
on the membership of the United States
Court of Military Appeals, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Commission.
1-101. There is established the United
States Court of Military Appeals Nomi-
1-204. The Commission shall conduct
such additional inquiries and submit such
additional reports as may be requested by
the President.
1-205. The Commission shall perform
no function except when requested by the
President to assist him in filling a vacancy.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. The Commission is authorized to
request from any Executive agency such
1038
