May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Latin America, and around the world-
also in this country, of course. But just
the fact that I appointed him to be our
U.N. Ambassador is a demonstration to
those people in tangible terms that we
care about them for the first time in 200
years.
Now, the Soviets are obviously trying
to use their influence in Africa and other
parts of the world. In many instances
when they have come into a nation that
has a changing government, their major
input has been weapons, and they are
much more easy to buy weapons from
than we are. They will supply excessive
weapons to countries like Somalia and
Ethiopia, in the Horn of Africa, resulting
in this instance by an attack on Ethiopia
by Somalia with Soviet weapons. Both
countries got them from the Soviet Union.
The Soviets have gone into Ethiopia,
using Cuban troops to fight against So-
malia. I deplore this very much. In the
strongest possible terms we have let the
Soviets and the Cubans know that this
is a danger to American-Soviet friendship
and to the nurturing and enhancement of
the principle of détente.
The Soviets know very clearly how
deeply I feel about this. I've communi-
cated directly with Brezhnev through pri-
vate, sealed messages. And Cy Vance just
came back from Moscow recently, hav-
ing repeated to the Soviets, "Be careful
how you use your military strength in
Africa if you want to be a friend of the
United States and maintain peace
throughout the world."
So, I think that they are mistaken.
There's a strong sense of nationalism in
Africa. Once the Soviets are there to help
with military weapons when a new gov-
ernment is formed, then the people of that
country almost invariably want the So-
viets to get out and let them run their
own affairs.
I think there's an innate racism that
exists toward black people within the
Soviet Union, as compared to us. We
know how to live with white and black
people together. We respect each other.
We've learned this the hard way. But
there's a great deal of appreciation in
Africa for this attitude on the part of the
United States, as contrasted with the So-
viet Union. And there's another very
major factor that I mentioned yesterday
morning in Denver at the Governor's
Prayer Breakfast, and that is that there's
a strong sense of religious commitment
throughout black Africa and indeed the
northern part of Africa as well, Egypt and
the others. They may be Arabs, they may
be Moslems, they may be Christians or
others, but they worship God.
And this is a sense or a mechanism
of a feeling of brotherhood and sisterhood
that binds us together very strongly. They
recognize that the Soviet Union is a Com-
munist and an atheistic nation, and it's a
very present concern in the minds and
hearts of Africans who, on a temporary
basis, will turn to the Soviets to buy weap-
ons because we won't sell the weapons to
them.
We come in later with economic aid,
with trade, with friendship, with the com-
mitment to democracy and freedom, to
human rights, and I believe in the long
run our system will prevail. We could
compete more directly and effectively
with the Soviets on a temporary basis
by trying to sell our weapons to every
country that calls for them. I don't think
that's the right approach.
I'd rather depend on the basic commit-
ment of American people to human rights,
to religious commitment and freedom,
and to a sense of equality with those peo-
ple who might be brown or yellow or
black, than to depend on the Soviets try-
ing to buy friendship through the sale of
destructive weapons designed to kill.
872
