Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Group of 77, now comprising about 95
countries. And I think this shows the
breadth of his vision and the commitment
that he has to bridge those gaps that I've
just described.
We've got an excellent relationship
with Romania. I think it's been growing
steadily and on a very sound basis for the
last 10 years or more.
This is the President's fourth trip to our
country, and after he leaves Washington
shortly, he'll be going to other places in
the United States. He'll be going to Chat-
tanooga, to Dallas, to Houston, to Or-
lando. He'll also be visiting New York.
Unfortunately, he won't get to Georgia-
[laughter] on this trip. He's going to save
that for dessert when he comes back on
his next trip.
But he knows our country. He's studied
it with a great deal of interest, and he's
been one of the people who have made
notable progress among other countries
that are in the most intense disputes at
this point.
I would say more than any other leader,
certainly including myself, he was re-
sponsible for the historic visit of President
Sadat of Egypt to Jerusalem and Israel.
By the way, the capital of Israel is Tel
Aviv and not Jerusalem.2
And we have seen that this ability of
his has paid rich dividends to us. Romania
was one of those countries instrumental in
evolving the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, that we refer to
in our country most often as the Helsinki
agreement. And at Belgrade, which he
described this morning as a disappoint-
ment, he was very eager to try to move
forward to a much more substantive ac-
complishment that might be realized at
The President was correcting a portion of
his remarks delivered earlier in the day during
the arrival ceremony for President Ceausescu.
the next meeting, scheduled to be in
Madrid.
We are very proud that the Helsinki
conference agreement includes the Third
Basket, which covers more deeply than
ever before the question that is of pro-
found importance to our country, that is,
basic human rights. And we have an abil-
ity, President Ceausescu and myself, his
ministers and mine, to discuss ways by
which we might move, perhaps in differ-
ent means and at different rates of ad-
vance, to bring about those basic human
rights that our people so urgently need-
the reunification of families and the basic
freedoms that are important to us.
I've enjoyed being with him. He's a
very good adviser. He's a man who in the
past has suffered greatly, imprisoned, tor-
tured, but because of his courage and be-
cause of his belief in the future of his own
country, notable achievements have been
brought to the people who have confi-
dence in him.
It's a great pleasure for me again to
express my welcome to him to our coun-
try, and I would like to propose a toast
to a great leader, President Ceausescu,
and to the brave and friendly people of
Romania. Mr. President, to you and your
people.
PRESIDENT CEAUSESCU. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
It is for myself, for my wife, and for
the members of my party a reason of
special pleasure to be your guests here
tonight, to be again here in the United
States, to meet again many citizens of
your lovely country.
Today we had the first round of talks
on a rather large sphere of problems, and
we have also reached a number of
common conclusions.
The first regards the need to establish
broader cooperation between our two
countries and to take more sustained ef-
740
