Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 21
deed, of those who love peace around the
world.
Mr. Prime Minister, you are welcome
to our country.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
I thank you for your kindness and hos-
pitality in inviting me again to the White
House, together with my friend and col-
league the Foreign Minister, Moshe
Dayan, to conduct important talks with
you, Secretary of State, and your advisers
about the main issues concerning the Mid-
dle East and the peacemaking process.
Admittedly, Mr. President, these are
times of trial. Only 10 days ago Israel got
another reminder of what character is the
implacable enemy she faces, what is its
designs and methods toward men, women,
and children, citizens of our country.
We believe that we shall overcome, be-
cause this is our duty to our people and
to humanity, and with our deep faith in
freedom and in justice, I can say again we
shall overcome.
Israel contributed seriously to the
peacemaking process in the Middle East.
For the first time the Government of
Israel elaborated and produced a detailed
peace plan, a most forthcoming plan. And
I brought this plan, after my visit to you,
Mr. President, in December, also, during
the Ismailia conference, to the President
of Egypt.
May I be permitted to say, Mr. Presi-
dent, that the atmosphere which prevailed
in December during our conference and
later on at Ismailia was of understanding,
of real friendship, of openness. The same
applies to the meeting in Jerusalem be-
tween President Sadat and myself. Those
are encounters of the most positive char-
acter, and we can only pray today that
the spirit of Jerusalem, of Washington,
and of Ismailia be renewed.
This will mean real progress toward
establishment of peace in the Middle
East-our dream, our innermost wish.
Mr. President, you also stressed the
friendship of the United States for my
country. I am grateful. I believe this
friendship between the American and the
Israeli peoples is everlasting, and we find
proof time and again of this mutual
friendship.
I wish again to thank you for the senti-
ments of deep humanity you expressed
in your cable to me after that unspeak-
able atrocity 10 days ago.
On the basis of such understanding we
shall continue to build our common fu-
ture as free, democratic nations, and with
the spirit of those days, which I men-
tioned, we shall also make real progress
towards the establishment of a just and
durable, real peace in the Middle East
for which we yearn and which is so neces-
sary to Israel and to the Arab countries.
Again, Mr. President, I thank you for
your wonderful hospitality on behalf of the
Foreign Minister, all our advisers, and
myself, and I do hope that our talks today
and tomorrow in the White House will
deepen the friendship between our two
countries.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
National Farm Safety Week, 1978
Proclamation 4556. March 21, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
All Americans, and a sizeable portion
of the rest of the world's people, depend
upon American agriculture for much of
their food and fiber. Anything that dimin-
ishes the ability of farmers and ranchers
to meet these vital needs is of great con-
cern. Farm accidents are among the cost-
545
