Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 2
National Commission on the
International Year of the
Child, 1979
Appointment of Jean C. Young as Chairman.
May 1, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Jean C. Young, of At-
lanta, Ga., as Chairman of the National
Commission on the International Year of
the Child, 1979.
Young was born July 1, 1933, in Mari-
on, Ala. She holds a B.S. in elementary
education from Manchester College in
Indiana and an M.S. in education from
Queens College (New York).
She has been a classroom teacher, su-
pervising teacher for the Teacher Corps,
area resource teacher, and coordinator
of elementary and preschool programs
with the Atlanta Public School System.
She participated in the development of
Atlanta Junior College, serving as assist-
ant to the president, public relations of-
ficer, and instructor of developmental
studies.
Young has published a manual for
parents of preschool children, "Bridging
the Gap." She participated in an inter-
national student volunteer project with
refugee children from Eastern Europe in
Austria.
Zero-Base Budgeting
Announcement of a Report Concerning
First-Year Results in the Federal Government.
May 2, 1978
The White House released today a de-
tailed assessment of first-year results of
zero-base budgeting (ZBB) in the Federal
Government. It found that departments
and agencies "got off to a good start" in
putting the process to work.
President Carter commended depart-
ment heads recently for instituting ZBB
within the short time available to develop
the fiscal year 1979 budget, and said he
expected the process "to aid even more in
the 1980 budget cycle." ZBB provides a
systematic process by which managers at
various levels can analyze performance
and allocate resources effectively and
economically among Government pro-
grams.
James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, said
his agency is revising ZBB guidelines to
make the process even more useful in
tightening the 1980 budget. OMB pre-
pared the first-year assessment, which
noted that:
-Agency budget priorities were ex-
plicitly identified and stated;
-Agencies were better able to restrain
the size of their budget requests;
-Management participation in the
budget process increased at all levels.
As a result, agencies generally re-
ported a better understanding of the
relationship of their separate pro-
gram plans and policy initiatives.
The report describes some of the sav-
ings attributable to ZBB. No single dollar
figure can be pinned down to represent
total ZBB economies in the 1979 budget,
the report explained, since many resulted
from a combination of factors. The report
does cite a number of instances in which
operations were discontinued or funds
and personnel were shifted to achieve
maximum use of the dollar.
Savings were realized when requests
for more money could not be justified
within the ZBB discipline. In addition,
many large requests never reached OMB,
because agencies recognized in ranking
priorities that the proposals could not be
justified.
815
