Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 12
have increased and improved rapidly to
the satisfaction and to the benefit of our
people.
Trade between our two countries in the
last 10 years has been multiplied 10 times
over. And because of the rapidly improv-
ing relations that still exist, we expect the
volume of trade to more than double in
the next 3 years.
It's also of great benefit to me as
President to have a chance to consult with
a national and an international leader like
our guest today. Their influence as Ro-
manian leaders throughout the interna-
tional world is exceptional. Because of the
strong commitments of the President and
the independence of the people, Romania
has been able to serve as a bridge among
nations with highly divergent views and
interests and among leaders who would
find it difficult under some circumstances
to negotiate directly with each other.
One recent notable achievement of
President Ceausescu was to be instru-
mental in arranging the historic visit of
President Sadat of Egypt to the capital of
Israel in Jerusalem. Both of those coun-
tries have found in Romania an avenue
of communication and understanding
that's been very valuable to them, to the
Middle East, and to world peace.
There are differences, obviously, be-
tween the United States and Romania, in
our political system and also in our mili-
tary alliances. But the factors which bind
us together are much more profound and
of much greater benefit to our countries.
We share common beliefs. We believe in
strong national sovereignty. We believe
in preserving the independence of our
nations and also of our people. We be-
lieve in the importance of honoring terri-
torial integrity throughout the world. We
believe in equality among nations in bi-
lateral dealings, one with another, and
also in international councils. We believe
in the right of every country to be free
from interference in its own internal af-
fairs by another country. And we believe
that world peace can come which we
both devoutly hope to see-through mu-
tual respect, even among those who have
some differences between us.
Our goals are also the same, to have a
just system of economics and politics, to
let the people of the world share in
growth, in peace, in personal freedom,
and in the benefits to be derived from the
proper utilization of natural resources.
We believe in enhancing human rights.
We believe that we should enhance, as in-
dependent nations, the freedom of our
own people. And Romania has been in-
strumental in pursuing the goals of the
Helsinki conference, in particular, build-
ing the mutual confidence factors that can
let the nations of Eastern Europe and the
nations of Western Europe understand
one another better and build up legiti-
mate trust through that understanding.
We also believe in a common goal-
which President Ceausescu has endorsed
forcefully and publicly—in the principle
of world disarmament, based on mutu-
ally beneficial agreements and based on an
enhanced prospect for peace.
Mr. President, Mrs. Ceausescu, on be-
half of the American people, I want to
extend my expression of honor that you
are here and the warmest welcome to the
United States.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT CEAUSESCU. Mr. President,
esteemed Mrs. Carter:
It is with particular pleasure that my-
self, my wife, and the associates accom-
panying me are visiting again the United
States at the kind invitation extended by
you, Mr. President, and by Mrs. Carter.
I should like to begin by addressing to
you and to the people of America the
warmest greetings of the people of Ro-
mania, who are most desirous to entertain
and develop friendly relations and co-
operation with the great people of the
United States.
735
