Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Urban Development Department-Pat
Harris is the head of it-a drop in the
unemployment rate among minority
groups, which I think is going to be ac-
celerated in the future in a very bene-
ficial way; Federal Government deposits
in black banks, contracts to black busi-
nesses, purchases from black suppliers;
these kinds of things, plus the opening up
of new job opportunities with the equal
employment, civil service reforms-I
would rather be measured on what we
actually do as proven than to try some
bold initiative that might just be a public
relations stunt and not result in tangible
benefits for black citizens.
And that's what I'm willing to be meas-
ured on. I think that in this fall election,
many of the Members of Congress will
have their performance assessed by black
voters. I hope they will say, "What did
you do that helped my people?” And I
think that's the best measuring stick for it.
MR. BRYANT. The sense of my question
comes out of the polarization declaration
that the mayor of Philadelphia made,
which indeed will appeal to some people,
and there will be dramatic things happen-
ing in terms of the relationships possibly
getting worse. That's the sense of why I
asked the question.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I think
there's one other point that ought to be
emphasized that we've mentioned in the
first few minutes of the program, and that
is what has been America's change in atti-
tude toward black Africa. I don't think
anybody can deny that there's a tre-
mendous new interest among all Ameri-
can citizens, black and white, in the
peaceful and prosperous life that can exist
in the southern part of Africa, with an
end to apartheid, the end to discrimina-
tion, majority rule in those black nations,
a good friendship, a sense of equality be-
tween white leaders, like myself, and the
black leaders, like those who live in
Africa.
I think this is a new thrust that's not
just initiated by me as a lonely public
official, but which mirrors accurately what
the American people have long wanted to
do. I think that in itself is a very dramatic
indication of our new interest in fairness
and equality, not just in our own country
but around the world.
U.S. FOREIGN RELATIONS
MR. JARRETT. There's also a fear that
this new interest on the part of the United
States, with or without you being in the
Presidency, could have a negative effect
too, in that the United States has a tradi-
tion of supporting the more conservative,
in some instances outright reactionary
regimes, as long as they were pro-United
States, even though they were anti their
own people.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. JARRETT. Is the United States now
going to judiciously make some decisions
and not necessarily go out supporting
some dictator who happens to love us and
proclaim his anticommunism out loud,
and then we will rally to him?
THE PRESIDENT. I really feel that this
question has already been answered to a
substantial degree by our new relation-
ship, say, with Jamaica, our new relation-
ship with Nigeria, our new relationship
with the people who struggle for majority
rights in Namibia, in South Africa, in
Zimbabwe, by the new friendship that I
have with people like Nyerere and like
Obasanjo. These kinds of benefits have
been coming to our country already in the
short period of time of 15 months. And I
think that the answer is, as I said before,
this is not something that I do in isola-
tion, but I think I accurately represent
the new interests of the Congress and the
people of the United States in dealing
694
