Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
carefully, that the treaties indeed should
be ratified, and ratified without delay.
I hope I've answered your question ade-
quately.
DR. NASON. Thank you most sincerely,
Mr. President. On behalf of our audience,
it's been a very real privilege for us to hear
from you personally on this vital issue.
And ahora, desde Nuevo Mexico decimos
muy buenas noches, Señor Presidente, y
mil gracias. [And now from New Mexico
we say a very good evening, Mr. Presi-
dent, and many thanks.]
THE PRESIDENT. Muchas gracias a
todos. [Many thanks to all of you.]
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the
meeting in the Ballroom at the Student Union
Building at the University of New Mexico.
Marshall Nason is director of the Latin Ameri-
can Center at the university.
In his remarks, the President referred to Sen-
ator Harrison H. Schmitt of New Mexico and
David H. Popper, Deputy for Panama Canal
Treaty Affairs, Department of State.
Edward VII replied via the Poldhu
Station in Cornwall, England:
"I thank you most sincerely for the kind
message which I have just received from
you through Marconi's transatlantic wire-
less telegraphy. I sincerely reciprocate in
the name of the people of the British
Empire the cordial greetings and friendly
sentiment expressed by you on behalf of
the American nation, and I heartily wish
you and your country every possible pros-
perity."
That exchange marked a milestone in
the history of communications. Since then,
we have built on the invention of the dis-
Guglielmo
tinguished Italian physicist
Marconi and others, a global communi-
cations system that allows instant contact
not only between heads of state but peo-
ples of all nations.
In recalling that historic message, it is
fitting that we commemorate the event
both with gratitude for the ways in which
science and engineering have helped to
unite us and with fervent hopes that such
communications will serve the future
course of peace and human progress
everywhere.
75th Anniversary of Wireless
Communications
Statement by the President. January 18, 1978
Seventy-five years ago, a new era of in-
ternational communications was heralded
in by a historic exchange of messages
across the Atlantic. On January 18, 1903,
President Theodore Roosevelt first used
the Marconi wireless to send the follow-
ing message to Edward VII of England
from a station on Cape Cod:
"In taking advantage of the wonderful
triumph of scientific research and ingenu-
ity which has been achieved in perfecting
a system of wireless telegraphy, I extend
on behalf of the American people most
cordial greetings and good wishes to you
and [to all] the people of the British
Empire."
United States
Ambassador to Poland
Nomination of William E. Schaufele, Jr.
January 19, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate William E. Schaufele,
Jr., of Avon Lake, Ohio, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotenti-
ary of the United States to Poland. He
will replace Richard T. Davies, resigned.
Schaufele was born December 7, 1923,
in Lakewood, Ohio. He received a B.A.
in 1948 from Yale University and an
M.I.A. in 1950 from Columbia Univer-
87
