Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 29
growth and development of many nations
and thus to the expansion of world trade.
In the years ahead, the United States
plans to increase its contributions, and we
will work with other nations to ensure
that these institutions receive the support
they need.
Bilateral economic assistance also has a
major role to play. I've requested, for
instance, that Congress approve a 28-per-
cent increase in our program just for the
coming year alone.
I applaud the efforts of Venezuela and
other developing countries to expand your
own programs of economic assistance. All
of the OPEC nations have a responsibility
to use their surplus wealth to meet the
human needs of the world's people.
In some cases, the burden of repay-
ment of official development aid has be-
come an impediment to development. My
administration is supporting legislation,
now before the Congress, which will al-
low us to ease the terms of past American
aid loans to some of the least developed
nations.
We must work towards an expanded
and more equitable trading system. In no
area of economic relations is the oppor-
tunity of Latin America greater-nor the
responsibility more serious—than is ex-
panded trade.
The multilateral trade negotiations
now going on in Geneva are the focal
point of continued efforts to liberalize
trade and to strengthen the rules for in-
ternational commerce. Both developed
and developing nations have an enormous
stake in the success of these negotiations.
We must all resist the temptation to
impose new restrictions on imports. We
must all strive to reduce existing barriers
to trade, both tariffs and other measures,
while giving special consideration and
benefits to the developing countries.
We must also work to moderate disrup-
tive price movements in the world econ-
omy and to stabilize the prices of pri-
mary commodities. Reasonable and stable
export prices can hold down inflation and
encourage better income and a more reg-
ular flow of new investment capital to
those who produce raw materials.
All nations can therefore gain from the
negotiation and effective implementation
of commodity agreements and from the
creation, with the help of the United
States and other major countries, of a
common fund for price stabilization.
We've already begun to cooperate
and plan for the wise use of the Earth's
limited resources, such as food, and now
we must do the same with energy.
Both the industrial and the developing
countries must conserve energy and de-
vote more of our vast technological efforts
and resources to worldwide efforts to de-
velop new sources of energy, such as the
Sun and, as Latin American nations have
already shown us, even from sugar and
from other agricultural products. We
must do so without either destroying our
environment or creating a world of pro-
liferating nuclear explosives.
For the rest of this century, the greatest
potential for growth is in the developing
world. To become more self-reliant, de-
veloping nations need to strengthen their
technological capabilities. To assist them,
I am proposing a new United States
foundation for technological collabora-
tion.
Through private and public founda-
tions and through our increasing partici-
pation in the United Nations conferences,
we can make technical and scientific coop-
eration a key element in our relationship.
Our main task as members of a world
community is to work toward the day
when every person has a fair chance to
achieve a full measure of human
potential.
The population of the world is increas-
ing rapidly, and within two decades, it is
621
