Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Ababa. He was Ambassador to Burundi
from 1972 to 1974. Since 1974 he has
been Deputy Inspector General at the
State Department.
Director of the Office of
Management and Budget
Remarks at the Swearing In of James T.
McIntyre, Jr. March 24, 1978
First of all, I want to thank Fritz and
Jim for holding the crowd together 'til I
could get here. [Laughter]
This is a good day in the life of the
Carter administration and the Federal
gress to present testimony and evidence
and opinion, there will be no doubt that
he speaks with the voice of the President.
It's reassuring to me in the challenging
job that I have to be supported by and
advised by a man of this caliber and this
quality. And I'm very grateful to him
for being willing to serve our country in
such a way.
Jim, thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. at the
ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House. Prior to his remarks, Vice President
Walter F. Mondale spoke and then adminis-
tered the oath of office to Mr. McIntyre.
Government and the United States of Spring Flooding
America. I doubt that there's anyone in
the administration whom I know better
and whom I admire more than Jim
McIntyre.
Announcement Concerning Flood Insurance.
March 24, 1978
He is something of an anomaly in the
Carter administration, and that is that
he's well qualified in the job that he holds.
[Laughter] He is a professional. In his
training and his background, his life's
commitment is to the specific duties that
he will be performing for the people of
our country. He's a man of superb educa-
tional background and experience, com-
plete integrity and total dedication. And
I'm very grateful that he is here to repre-
sent the people of our country in such a
superb way.
Jim is a man who knows me well. He
has helped to evolve my own attitude
toward government administration. He's
been involved in our successes and our
failures. We've learned through this ex-
perience. And when Jim McIntyre speaks
to the heads of the Federal agencies in
the preparation of the budget, they know
that he speaks as though it were my own
voice. And when he deals with the Con-
The President has expressed his deep
concern for people faced with the threat
of spring flooding.
Melting snow coupled with rising
temperatures and spring rains could bring
floods to many parts of the country with-
out warning. Other areas not hit by
winter storms could be affected if they are
in the path of flood waters.
Recently, major flooding has taken
place in Nebraska, Indiana, and Ohio.
Mudslides and floods have left people
homeless in Southern California. The
New England coast and parts of Arizona
were unexpectedly flooded. Property
losses amounted to hundreds of millions
of dollars.
Many of these losses could have been
averted if property owners had purchased
flood insurance.
People living in flood-prone areas can
take precautions before disaster strikes.
Local insurance agents offer low-cost,
federally subsidized flood insurance avail-
568
