Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
mine the location of a transmitter.
4-204. Employee means a person em-
ployed by, assigned to, or acting for an
agency within the Intelligence Commu-
nity.
4-205. Foreign Intelligence means in-
formation relating to the capabilities, in-
tentions and activities of foreign powers,
organizations or persons, but not includ-
ing counterintelligence except for infor-
mation on international terrorist activities.
4–206. Intelligence means foreign in-
telligence and counterintelligence.
4-207. Intelligence Community and
agency or agencies within the Intelligence
Community refer to the following organi-
zations:
(a) The Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA);
(b) The National Security Agency
(NSA);
(c) The Defense Intelligence Agency;
(d) The Offices within the Depart-
ment of Defense for the collection of
specialized national foreign intelligence
through reconnaissance programs;
(e) The Bureau of Intelligence and
Research of the Department of State;
(f) The intelligence elements of the
military services, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), the Department of
the Treasury, the Department of Energy,
and the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion (DEA); and
(g) The staff elements of the Office of
the Director of Central Intelligence.
4-208. Intelligence product means the
estimates, memoranda and other reports
produced from the analysis of available
information.
4-209. International terrorist activities
means any activity or activities which:
(a) involves killing, causing serious
bodily harm, kidnapping, or violent de-
struction of property, or an attempt or
credible threat to commit such acts; and
(b) appears intended to endanger a
protectee of the Secret Service or the
Department of State or to further politi-
cal, social or economic goals by intimidat-
ing or coercing a civilian population or
any segment thereof, influencing the
policy of a government or international
organization by intimidation or coercion,
or obtaining widespread publicity for a
group or its cause; and
(c) transcends national boundaries in
terms of the means by which it is accom-
plished, the civilian population, govern-
ment, or international organization it ap-
pears intended to coerce or intimidate, or
the locale in which its perpetrators oper-
ate or seek asylum.
4-210. The National Foreign Intelli-
gence Program includes the programs
listed below, but its composition shall be
subject to review by the National Security
Council and modification by the Presi-
dent.
(a) The programs of the CIA;
(b) The Consolidated Cryptologic
Program, the General Defense Intelli-
gence Program, and the programs of the
offices within the Department of Defense
for the collection of specialized national
foreign intelligence through reconnais-
sance except such elements as the Direc-
tor of Central Intelligence and the Sec-
retary of Defense agree should be
excluded;
(c) Other programs of agencies within
the Intelligence Community designated
jointly by the Director of Central Intelli-
gence and the head of the department or
by the President as national foreign in-
telligence or counterintelligence activi-
ties;
(d) Activities of the staff elements of
the Office of the Director of Central In-
telligence.
(e) Activities to acquire the intelli-
gence required for the planning and con-
duct of tactical operations by the United
States military forces are not included in
213
