Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 12
build up the adequate supply of oil for re-
serve and cut down consumption and im-
ports at the same time.
Sarah McClendon [McClendon News
Service].
U.S. BORDER PATROL HELICOPTER
gainsaying yours and the Attorney Gen-
eral's intention to appoint someone at least
as qualified as he is, it's still not clear to
me why he's being removed in the first
place. Could you expand on what you've
said already a little bit?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I've cov-
Q. Who did you say? [Laughter] I ered that at least as far as I am able to.
thought you were looking over there.
Sir, I have a question I want to take up
with you. On January 5, a helicopter, a
border patrolman on board, was shot at
from the Mexican side of the border, and
according to Immigration Service, no
plans are being made to make a formal,
big, major protest on that through the
White House or the State Department to
the Mexican Government. The families
and the border patrolmen are very con-
cerned. They think if you don't make a
major protest, you'll get this again.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I will certainly look into it. We have only
recently begun to use helicopters on the
border patrol. We have in Mexico, how-
ever, in close cooperation with the Mexi-
can Government, used our helicopters for
the detection of poppy fields that produce
heroin and other hard drugs in Mexico.
And my understanding was that the
helicopter fired at was in the process of
trying to destroy heroin poppy fields.
Q. No, sir, it was on this side of the
border. The helicopter shot at was on this
side of the border, was shot at from the
Mexican side.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. This has happened before with air-
planes, but not helicopters. It's very dan-
gerous with the helicopters.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, until this past
year we have never used helicopters for
that purpose. But we are now.
U.S. ATTORNEY MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, to come back to the
Marston matter for a minute, without
I've never looked into Mr. Marston's
qualifications. I depend upon the Attor-
ney General to assess the quality and the
performance of duty of the U.S. attorneys
around the country. And when he decides
that a U.S. attorney needs to be replaced,
then he makes the judgment about who
ought to be the replacement.
He made, quite early in this past year,
a decision that Mr. Marston should be re-
placed. I've never asked him to delineate
all the reasons. And my only involvement
in it at all was to expedite the process.
As I've told you, I have complete con-
fidence in the Attorney General's judg-
ment. I think he will recommend to me
someone who will make me and him
proud and particularly since there's been
such a large focusing of attention on the
case the last few weeks. And why the pub-
licity has accrued to that case, I'm not
sure. But I want to make sure now that
when this selection is made, it will be a
superb person. And I hope and expect that
it will be a man who's at least qualified,
perhaps better qualified, than Mr. Mars-
ton, or perhaps a woman.
SMOKING
Q. Your Secretary of HEW wants to
spend $23 million to persuade Americans
to stop smoking, while there are people on
your staff, Mr. President, who smoke in
public like chimneys. Could you explain
this
apparent contradiction? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't see the
contradiction there. I can't deny that the
Secretary of HEW, who's responsible for
61
