May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
er agricultural export year this year. And Springfield, Illinois
we are working very hard to make sure
that we do have a sound program that
affects not only the country but you.
Now, I recognize that quite often when
I make a nationwide decision that we
leave gaps because of special local differ-
ences or aberrations from the average.
We have to make, in Washington, the
laws apply to the average. And that's
where the State legislators come in. Be-
cause to the extent that you understand
the thrust of a Federal program, you can
either take full advantage of that if it's
adequate and invest your money and
your efforts somewhere else, or if you
have a special need that can't be recog-
nized by a nationwide law, then you can
fill in the gaps and meet the needs of
your own people.
But to get back to my original premise,
the insurance that we have that we make
those decisions properly is to stay close to
the people who put us in office. And this
is one of the elements I think that's been
missing too much in our political struc-
ture in the last few years, because there's
been a building up of distrust against
up of distrust against
government, and a chasm has opened be-
tween government and people. And that
can be resolved only by you and me.
We live in the greatest nation on Earth,
and I hope that with your help, the Con-
gress help, and the help of all American
people, in the years ahead we can make
it even greater than it is.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:16 a.m. in
the house chamber at the State Capitol Build-
ing. Prior to his remarks, the President met
with William A. Redmond, speaker of the
house, Thomas C. Hynes, president of the sen-
ate, Daniel P. Ward, chief justice of the su-
preme court, and other Illinois State officials
in the speaker's office at the State Capitol.
Remarks at a Fundraising Breakfast for
Michael Bakalis. May 26, 1978
Senator Stevenson, Governor Shapiro, my
longtime friend and classmate, Governor
Dan Walker, Secretary Dixon, future Sen-
ator Alex Seith, future Governor Michael
Bakalis:
I've enjoyed my visit to Illinois. I've
been excited and exhilarated by the
friendship and the warmth of the wel-
come here, by the determination and the
spirit that exists within the Democratic
Party.
I have been concerned about some
things, though. The problems that I face
in Washington seem to be much more
acute when you leave there and come out
among people.
The price of food concerns me. You
could have bought the same breakfast
yesterday morning for $2 or $3. [Laugh-
ter] But perhaps this is good for Mike. I
understand that in Illinois the Governor
has to get used to lobster, cognac.
[Laughter]
Mike pointed out the trials and tribu-
lations and also the excitement of running
for a major public office and dealing with
political questions as an underdog. I know
how that is. I have to deal with the Con-
gress every day. [Laughter] But I do know
that there is a need in this State for a
man who fills the unique standards of
leadership.
I've gotten to know Mike Bakalis since
I first came in Illinois to campaign. Mike
had a campaign breakfast for me here in
Springfield the first time I visited your
capital. And I've studied the issues in Illi-
nois. And I've tried to think about what
the people of this State would want if
they were choosing a perfect Governor.
First, I think there would be some re-
quirement of compatibility between the
996
