Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Humphrey-Hawkins Legislation
The Administration will seek passage
of the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employ-
ment and Balanced Growth Act.
This Act will help the Administration
and the Congress in planning our efforts
to reduce unemployment and to create
jobs, while maintaining reasonable price
stability. Its enactment would serve as a
living memorial to the late Senator Hu-
bert Humphrey.
Private Sector Jobs
The Administration plans a major $400
million effort to involve business and
labor in the training and hiring of the
hard-core unemployed.
The program will closely tie the Fed-
eral employment system with the private
sector, through the use of business coun-
cils. I am confident that the private sec-
tor will respond positively to the call to
help the Nation solve one of its most seri-
ous problems the employment of our
youth and minorities.
INFLATION
Although inflation is lower now than in
the recent past, we still must do more to
keep it down. The steps my Administra-
tion will take include:
-incentives for business investment,
contained in our tax proposals,
which will increase productive in-
vestment, and thereby help us hold
down prices and costs;
-reduction in excise and unemploy-
ment taxes, proposed in the new
budget;
-continuing reductions in needlessly
complex Federal regulations. We
have established a high-level inter-
agency committee to review the ef-
fects of regulation in our economy,
and we will continue our efforts for
regulatory reform in the airline in-
dustry and elsewhere;
-a special effort to hold down the
soaring costs of health care, through
enactment of the Hospital Cost Con-
tainment Act.
But the government cannot solve this
problem alone—especially once business,
labor, and consumers have accepted in-
flation as a fact of life, and adjusted their
behavior accordingly. I have therefore
asked business and labor to undertake,
voluntarily, a new program to reduce in-
flation. I will ask each industry to aim
for smaller price and wage increases in
1978 than it averaged over the last two
years. As a major employer the Federal
government should take the lead in this
effort. Voluntary cooperation is one
way-perhaps the only way to reduce
inflation without unacceptable govern-
ment interference and coercion.
URBAN ASSISTANCE AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
The Administration and Congress took
major steps last year to meet the needs of
our cities. We increased funding for Com-
munity Development Block Grants by
$2.7 billion over three years, and provided
an alternative formula for allocating
funds that was more responsive to the
needs of distressed urban areas. Next year
we will recommend an increase of $150
million over the 1978 level for the Com-
munity Development Block Grant pro-
gram. We enacted a new program of
Urban Development Action Grants at an
annual level of $400 million, and ex-
tended and expanded Anti-Recession Fis-
cal Assistance (ARFA).
I am proposing that the ARFA pro-
gram, which expires September 30, 1978,
be extended. We are evaluating possible
revisions in programs and funding, and
will make our recommendations to the
Congress within two months.
100
