Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 23
So, Cliff Robertson, I wish you all
would come forward now, and Jill and
Philip.
[At this point, the entertainment began. Fol-
lowing its conclusion, the President resumed
speaking.]
I know all of you have appreciated
what Jill and Philip and Cliff have done
for us tonight. I know all of you had
thoughts that went back through history,
and you can see some very close compati-
bilities here with Washington's time and
even our own modern day.
Presidents are still afflicted with office-
seekers—[laughter]—and I think I will
use a back garden and a cowbell so that I
can escape on occasion. [Laughter]
I think all of you will recognize the
truth in what Washington said about
pouring legislation into the Senate saucer,
crimination, signed on
signed on behalf of the
United States on September 28, 1966.
-The International Covenant on Eco-
nomic, Social and Cultural Rights, signed
on behalf of the United States on Octo-
ber 5, 1977.
-The International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights, signed on behalf of
the United States on October 5, 1977.
The fourth treaty was adopted by the
Organization of American States in 1969,
and is open for adoption only by members
of that Organization: The American
Convention on Human Rights, signed on
behalf of the United States on June 1,
1977.
I also transmit, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State on the United Nations treaties
where it slowly, slowly cools. [Laughter] and the Department's separate report on
Of course, the most vivid comparison,
I think, between Washington's life and
what is occurring here tonight is the vol-
untary resignation from public office and
superb service to our country of dedicated
men and women.
On behalf of the people of our country,
I thank all of you.
the American Convention.
While the United States is a leader in
the realization and protection of human
rights, it is one of the few large nations
that has not become a party to the three
United Nations human rights treaties.
Our failure to become a party increasingly
reflects upon our attainments, and preju-
dices United States participation in the
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:08 p.m. in development of the international law of
the East Room at the White House.
Human Rights Treaties
Message to the Senate. February 23, 1978
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, sub-
ject to certain reservations, understand-
ings and declarations, I transmit herewith
four treaties pertaining to human rights.
Three of these treaties were negotiated
at the United Nations:
-The International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Dis-
human rights. The two human rights
Covenants are based upon the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, in whose
conception, formulation and adoption the
United States played a central role. The
Racial Discrimination Convention deals
with a problem which in the past has been
identified with the United States; ratifica-
tion of this treaty will attest to our
enormous progress in this field in recent
decades and our commitment to ending
racial discrimination.
The United States participated actively
and effectively in the negotiation of the
American Convention on Human Rights.
That Convention, like the United Nations
395
