Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 13
Cuba is used by the Soviet Union as sur-
rogates in several places in Africa. Castro,
instead of reducing troop placements in
Africa, has grossly increased the number
of troops in several countries in Africa
recently. Our information, which I think
is accurate, is that in many instances he
offers additional troops to countries that
refuse them.
So, we have no diplomatic relations
with Cuba, as you know, we have trade
offices only. And we have let I don't
communicate directly with Castro-but
we have let him know through people
who go from here to Cuba and through
other means about our strong opposition
to his policy.
My information, also, is that the Cu-
ban troop losses in Africa have recently
been quite high. And I'm not sure that
the Cuban people know how severe the
loss of life is among Cuban troops that
are sent to Angola, nor the ones sent to
Ethiopia. But we try to influence Castro
to be more peaceful in his foreign policy,
to refrain from sending Cuban troops en-
thusiastically everywhere he can in Africa,
not only through our public statements
but also through nonaligned leaders and
developing countries.
I think the Cuban leaders would like
to have the image of being a nonaligned
country, but that's obviously an absolute-
ly ridiculous claim, because there is no
other country that acts in harmony with
and under the domination of the Soviets
any more than the Cubans do. They're
completely aligned with the Soviets, and
where most of the nonaligned countries
seek peace and peaceful settlements of
disputes, the Cubans are at the forefront
of the cutting edge of providing military
forces in areas of Africa, for instance,
wherever they possibly can find
opening.
So, I think in every one of these re-
spects, Castro is acting contrary to peace-
full settlements of disputes that are in-
evitable in Africa. And that is an obstacle
to any further progress between us and
Cuba as far as peace is concerned.
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE OF SPANISH-
SPEAKING AMERICANS
Q. Mr. President, the unemployment
rate in the United States has declined an
extent, to 6 percent, and yet in the
Spanish-speaking community, the His-
panic community, this has risen to 10 per-
cent. What do you propose specifically to
remedy this situation?
The PresidenT. My information is a
little bit different from yours. You said
"has risen to 10 percent." My information
is that in the last 16 months, the unem-
ployment rate among Spanish-speaking
Americans has actually dropped. It is
still 10 percent, approximately. But I
think it has come down since I've been
in office. That is a continuing problem for
us. When I talk about inflation control,
I'm obviously not abandoning our per-
manent commitment to getting the unem-
ployment rate down.
Among, probably, teenage Spanish-
speaking Americans, it would probably
be 30, 35, 40 percent. One of the results
of a general lowering of unemployment
rate in the country is that we can focus
the existing Federal programs more and
more accurately on those who are more
difficult to employ or who have the hard-
est time getting a job.
As you know, minority citizens, young
people are the last ones hired and the
first ones fired. And when we have a Gov-
ernment program, either in the CETA
programs or, say, a local works program,
and a large number of all kinds of Ameri-
cans are unemployed and the competition
is there, quite often the minority citizen
doesn't get a good chance to get a job.
However, if the unemployment rate in
general is reduced, then we can focus
905
