Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 3
are deeply ingrained in the heart and con-
science of the American people can be the
arbiter between right and wrong and
differentiate between the just and unjust.
Like you, my dear friend, we believe in
human rights and respect for the dignity
of man. Like you, my dear friend, we cher-
ish our land and sacrifice our lives to de-
fend it against any encroachment.
Like you, my dear friend, we believe in
the inherent right of self-determination
for all peoples in different parts of the
globe. First and foremost, we share a firm
commitment to the cause of peace.
Dear friend, I am certain that you agree
with me that this is the time for a concert-
ed effort for building a solid structure for
peace. We are now at a historic and cru-
cial crossroad.
Since I undertook my mission to Jeru-
salem, against all odds, events have proven
that the great ideal of peace is unfortu-
nately fragile and vulnerable. We have to
remedy this situation. We must fortify the
structure of peace and reinforce the faith
of hundreds of millions in the validity of
the notion that peace is not only necessary
but also possible.
We should never allow ideological rigid-
ity or fanaticism to endanger this march
on the road to peace.
My dear friend, since you assumed of-
fice, you demonstrated your genuine com-
mitment to the cause of peace. You have
been truthful and forthcoming. Your ap-
proach, which emphasized morality and
legitimacy, caught the imagination of mil-
lions in the Arab world. We sincerely hope
that your efforts bear fruit for the sake of
all the peoples in our area.
I look forward to the talks we will have
in the coming few days. I am sure they
will boost the momentum for peace and
give a new impetus to our search for a
comprehensive settlement of the Arab-
Israeli dispute.
We want to put an end to wars and
bloodshed. We want every people to be
free and secure within its own land. We
want to create a new Middle East, where
nations, including the Palestinians, live
together in harmony and fraternity. We
want to purge all souls of prejudice and
hatred. And, God willing, we shall
overcome.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House. Following
their remarks, President Carter and President
Sadat and their wives departed for Camp
David, Md.
National Library of Medicine
Nomination of Seven Members of the Board
of Regents. February 3, 1978
The President today announced seven
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Regents of the
National Library of Medicine, Public
Health Service. They are:
THOMAS C. CHALMERS, president and dean of
Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City
University of New York, and president of
the Mount Sinai Medical Center;
NICHOLAS E. DAVIES, an Atlanta physician
practicing internal medicine and cardiology;
SAMUEL R. HILL, JR., vice president for health
affairs of the University of Alabama School
of Medicine in Birmingham;
DORIS H. MERRITT, dean of research and
sponsored programs at Indiana University-
Purdue University at Indianapolis, and pro-
fessor of pediatrics at Indiana University
School of Medicine;
CECIL G. SHEPS, professor of social medicine
at the University of North Carolina;
KELLY M. WEST, professor of biostatics and
epidemiology and clinical professor of med-
icine at the University of Oklahoma;
JAMES F. WILLIAMS II, chief medical librarian
at Wayne State University.
275
