Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The deterioration of urban life in the
United States is one of the most complex
and deeply rooted problems of our age.
The Federal Government has a clear duty
to lead the effort to reverse that deterio-
ration, and I intend to provide the leader-
ship.
But Federal efforts alone will never be
enough. Everyone in this land has a per-
sonal stake in the health of our urban
places. In the complex web of economic,
social, and cultural relationships which
holds our society together, none of us are
immune from the distress of others. If we
are to preserve the special values of urban,
suburban, and rural life, we must recog-
nize that those values are interdependent.
To a greater extent than ever before, the
future of our cities and the destiny of our
Nation are joined.
I believe that this link is now recog-
nized by almost every American. Yet,
throughout most of our history, America
has been ambivalent about our cities.
Reflecting these conflicting attitudes,
direct Federal involvement in urban af-
fairs has followed a kind of seesaw pat-
tern. In formulating this new policy, we've
had the benefit of past experience.
From the experience of the urban re-
newal program of the 1950's, we learned
to be skeptical about what Reinhold
Niebuhr called the "doctrine of salvation
through bricks"-the idea that we can
bulldoze away our urban problems.
From the experience of the Great So-
ciety in the 1960's and during more re-
cent years, we learned-despite many
successes that we can succeed only if all
levels of government work together with
private citizens and interests in a fairly
and fully coordinated way toward com-
mon goals.
The time has come to put an end to
these abrupt swings of policy and to re-
place them with the kind of long-range
urban policy that I promised in Milwau-
kee "a coherent national urban policy
that is consistent, compassionate, realistic,
and that reflects the decency and the good
sense of the American people."
We must acknowledge the value of our
urban communities. This value includes a
physical plant that must not be allowed
to deteriorate any further-trillions of
dollars invested in buildings, houses,
streets and roads, transit systems, water
and sewage systems, factories, offices,
parks.
Even more important is the social value
of cities to those who live in them and to
the rest of those who live close to them-
their services as centers of culture, enter-
tainment, finance; the enormous variety
of human exchange that's possible there;
their creativity and their contribution to
our common life; and the role they've al-
ways played as homes for people of all
kinds and all circumstances who are
searching for the American dream of op-
portunity.
Yet many of these communities and the
people who live in them are in distress,
and others face future hardship if we fail
to act.
Today I call on all of you and the insti-
tutions and groups that you represent to
join me in building a new partnership to
conserve our communities—a working al-
liance of all levels of government, with the
private sector of our economy and with
our citizens in their communities and
neighborhoods.
Are you willing to help? [Applause]
In spite of some beliefs that have been
expressed around this particular home,
mayors hold the most difficult public of-
fices in our land. [Laughter] It's time that
the rest of us fully support their efforts
to ensure that our cities will not merely
survive but prosper.
This new partnership offers no quick
nor easy solutions. No such solutions exist.
But it does give us the tools to build the
578
