Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 21
areas where Congress feels special over-
sight of regulations or other actions is
needed, I urge the adoption of "report-
and-wait" provisions instead of legislative
vetoes. Under such a provision, the Ex-
ecutive "reports" a proposed action to
Congress and "waits" for a specified
period before putting it into effect. This
waiting period permits a dialogue with
Congress to work out disagreements and
gives Congress the opportunity to pass
legislation, subject to my veto, to block or
change the Executive action. Legislation
establishing "report-and-wait" proce-
dures has been introduced. Even these
procedures consume resources and cause
delays, however, so they should be used
sparingly.
As for legislative vetoes over the execu-
tion of programs already prescribed in
legislation and in bills I must sign for
other reasons, the Executive Branch will
generally treat them as "report-and-wait"
provisions. In such a case, if Congress
subsequently adopts a resolution to veto
an Executive action, we will give it seri-
ous consideration, but we will not, under
our reading of the Constitution, consider
it legally binding.
The desire for the legislative veto stems
in part from Congress' mistrust of the
Executive, due to the abuses of years
past. Congress responded to those abuses
by enacting constructive safeguards in
such areas as war powers and the budget
process. The legislative veto, however, is
an overreaction which increases conflict
between the branches of government. We
need, instead, to focus on the future. By
working together, we can restore trust
and make the government more respon-
sive and effective.
The White House,
June 21, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Lawyers' Committee
for Civil Rights
Under Law
Remarks at a White House Reception.
June 21, 1978
First of all, let me say that I'm very
proud to welcome you to the White House
and to have you here with me. It's al-
ways gratifying and very rare for a Presi-
dent to be associated with success, and
you all have proven a remarkable degree
of success in one of the finest and most
idealistic and successful endeavors, I
think, that our country has seen.
I know that 15 years ago, here in this
White House, many people, Bernie Segal,
the late Harrison Tweed, Lloyd Cutler,
and others, came together to form the
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
Under the Law. At that time our Nation
faced an almost hopeless prospect of
transforming the ideals and the dreams of
many people who were suffering from
deprivation and discrimination into the
realization of those hopes. And you had
confidence that this challenge could be
met successfully.
You've been a great help, not only to
my predecessors here in the White House,
and to me, but more importantly, you've
helped those who were least able to help
themselves. And as a southerner, one
who's seen the remarkable transforma-
tion, not only among those who were pre-
viously deprived but among those who
were reluctant to see the changes made, I
can express to you from the bottom of
my heart the appreciation of a grateful
nation.
We've had an opportunity to expand
a few dedicated, competent professionals
who work full time at the enhancement
of basic civil rights into literally thou-
sands of volunteers from some of the most
1149
