June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
fer of functions—not merely for storage
purposes the receiving agency shall be
deemed to be the originating agency for
all purposes under this Order.
3-202. For classified information not
transferred in accordance with Section 3-
201, but originated in an agency which
has ceased to exist, each agency in pos-
session shall be deemed to be the origi-
nating agency for all purposes under this
Order. Such information may be declassi-
fied or downgraded by the agency in pos-
session after consulting with any other
agency having an interest in the subject
matter.
3-203. Classified information trans-
ferred to the General Services Adminis-
tration for accession into the Archives of
the United States shall be declassified or
downgraded by the Archivist of the
United States in accordance with this Or-
der, the directives of the Information Se-
curity Oversight Office, and the agency
guidelines.
3-204. After the termination of a Presi-
dential administration, the Archivist of
the United States shall review and de-
classify or downgrade all information
classified by the President, the White
House Staff, committees or commissions
appointed by the President, or others act-
ing on the President's behalf. Such de-
classification shall only be undertaken in
accordance with the provisions of Section
3-504.
3-3. Declassification Policy.
3-301. Declassification of classified in-
formation shall be given emphasis com-
parable to that accorded classification.
Information classified pursuant to this
and prior Orders shall be declassified as
early as national security considerations
permit. Decisions concerning declassifica-
tion shall be based on the loss of the in-
formation's sensitivity with the passage of
time or on the occurrence of a declassifica-
tion event.
3-302. When information is reviewed
for declassification pursuant to this Order
or the Freedom of Information Act, it
shall be declassified unless the declassifica-
tion authority established pursuant to Sec-
tion 3-1 determines that the information
continues to meet the classification re-
quirements prescribed in Section 1-3
despite the passage of time.
3-303. It is presumed that information
which continues to meet the classifica-
tion requirements in Section 1-3 requires
continued protection. In some cases, how-
ever, the need to protect such information
may be outweighed by the public interest
in disclosure of the information, and in
these cases the information should be de-
classified. When such questions arise, they
shall be referred to the agency head, a
senior agency official with responsibility
for processing Freedom of Information
Act requests or Mandatory Review re-
quests under this Order, an official with
Top Secret classification authority, or the
Archivist of the United States in the case
of material covered in Section 3-503.
That official will determine whether the
public interest in disclosure outweighs the
damage to national security that might
reasonably be expected from disclosure.
3-4. Systematic Review for Declassifi-
cation.
3-401. Classified information constitut-
ing permanently valuable records of the
Government, as defined by 44 U.S.C.
2103, and information in the possession
and control of the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services, pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2107
or 2107 note, shall be reviewed for de-
classification as it becomes twenty years
old. Agency heads listed in Section 1-2
and officials designated by the President
pursuant to Section 1-201 of this Order
1200
