Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
strated the profound, the complete and
the total commitment of this administra-
tion and of its President to the pursuit of
human rights, of human justice and lib-
erty. Those values most basic to the
American people are also most basic to
our foreign policy.
When you left, Mr. President, you
asked those of us who stayed behind to
take care of things. These have been 9
successful days in the history of our coun-
try. [Laughter] And we're proud of it. We
have avoided war. We have continued
Government services with no increase in
taxes. The Congress have not turned
down a single suggestion during these
past 9 days. I've matured a lot. I've aged
a year since you left, and Amy's now an
accomplished skier. [Laughter]
Welcome home. We're delighted to
have you and Rosalynn back with us.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe I should have
stayed gone longer. [Laughter]
A week and a half ago when I stood
right here on this spot I mentioned some
words in anticipation of our trip that are
significant: rapid change, diversity among
the peoples of the world, American lead-
ership, liberty, freedom, friendship, hu-
man rights. And now after going to these
nations, I have a much more sure sense
of what those words really mean. I won't
go
into detail now because we don't have
time. But there are a few vivid mem-
ories that illustrate my own emotions as
I return to my land which I love so much.
The visit to Warsaw, the Warsaw Pact
nation on the other side of the Iron Cur-
tain, which is now being opened, I hope,
for good. Paying tribute to those who
were killed there there were 4 million
Jews in Poland before the war; now there
are less than a hundred thousand. War-
saw had 1.2 million people; 800,000 of
them were killed. Six million Poles died.
Twenty million Russians died in the Sec-
ond World War.
And I have a much surer sense now
that the Communist nations who some-
times we look upon as adversaries want
to avoid war and to have peace just as
much as we do. And we need to make
every effort to search out compatibilities
and to understand one another and to
communicate easily and well.
I was deeply impressed by India, the
largest democracy on Earth, 700 million
people perhaps. I visited Gandhi's tomb,
where his body was cremated, and
thought about how that man with no
army, no television, no political organiza-
tion, no home, was able to transform that
country by walking by himself from one
village to another just because he had an
ideal that didn't change and because he
wanted the Indian people to have a right
to worship and to choose their own
leaders.
And we visited a small village like the
one my mother lived in for 2 years, a vil-
lage of poverty. The people who live there
don't make as much income in a year as
the average American worker makes in a
week. But we were received with open
arms, and it was a natural outburst of
friendship and appreciation, even there,
for what our country stands for.
Then I visited King Hussein and King
Khalid and the Shah of Iran, and then
stopped in Aswan. And as I stepped off
the plane I embraced with a deep sense
of affection one of the bravest men on
Earth, Anwar Sadat.
And then came back to France, and
yesterday, I believe, was one of the best
days of my whole life, the outpouring of
friendship that existed on the streets of
Paris for us, for our country, the people
in the small village of Bayeux, the first
town liberated when the freedom forces
moved back into Europe. And to stand
40
