Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Recent experience has demonstrated
that the inflation we have inherited from
the past cannot be cured by policies that
slow growth and keep unemployment
high. Since 1975, inflation has persisted
stubbornly at a 6 to 62 percent rate—
even though unemployment went as high
as 9 percent and still stands above 6 per-
cent, and even though a substantial pro-
portion of our industrial capacity has been
idle. The human tragedy and waste of
resources associated with policies of slow
growth are intolerable, and the impact of
such policies on the current inflation is
very small. Moreover, by discouraging in-
vestment in new capacity, slow growth
sows the seeds of future inflationary prob-
lems when the economy does return to
high employment. Economic stagnation
is not the answer to inflation.
Our first task in combating inflation is
to guard against a renewed outbreak of
higher price increases in the future. Firm
discipline over the Federal budget and a
prudent monetary policy are the most im-
portant steps that can be taken. Programs
to attack structural pockets of unemploy-
ment among our people will make it pos-
sible to achieve higher levels of employ-
ment without exerting pressures on prices.
Greater investment also will make a ma-
jor contribution toward assuring that the
capacity of our industry will be adequate
to meet the needs of a high-employment
economy.
Enactment of an energy program will
eventually reduce the demand for oil im-
ports—contributing to market conditions
that discourage substantial oil price in-
creases, and combating the inflation that
results from a decline in the exchange
value of the dollar. The programs I have
inaugurated to build a 30- to 35-million
metric ton grain reserve will provide a
buffer against sudden upward movements
in food prices in the event of bad
weather.
Our second task-reducing the current
rate of inflation—will be harder. Yet we
must tackle the problem. Unless the in-
flation rate is brought down, the rate of
price increase may well rise as unemploy-
ment falls to lower levels in later years,
with consequences that would thwart our
efforts to bring about full recovery.
The government has an obligation to
set an example for the private sector, and
we can play an important role in mod-
erating inflation by reducing the effects
of our own actions on prices. By adopting
tax incentives and other policies to im-
prove the growth of investment and pro-
ductivity, we will help reduce the rise in
costs and hence in prices.
The excise tax reductions I have pro-
posed in my 1979 budget also will con-
tribute moderately to lower costs and
prices.
Government regulations also add to
costs and raise prices. To some extent,
this is the inevitable cost of much needed
improvements in the environment and in
the health and safety of workers and con-
sumers. But there is no question that the
scope of regulation has become excessive
and that too little attention is given to its
economic costs. We should not, and will
not, give up our efforts to achieve cleaner
air and water and a safer workplace. But,
wherever possible, the extent of regula-
tion should be reduced. We have elimi-
nated hundreds of unneeded regulations
already and will continue to pare down
the remainder.
I also intend to put a high priority on
minimizing the adverse effects of govern-
mental regulations on the economy. To
this end, I have established a high-level
interagency
interagency committee that together
with the relevant regulatory agency-will
140
