Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ticipation and approval of communities
within the State. The grants will be pro-
vided to the States to finance a portion of
the plan. The State Incentive Grant Pro-
gram will be administered by HUD and
will provide $400 million over two years.
Local Government Role
Many communities and cities can im-
prove management and planning im-
provements by reforming fiscal manage-
ment practices, streamlining local regula-
tory procedures, and coordinating local
community and economic development
activities.
The Federal government provides
planning and technical assistance to com-
munities through HUD and Commerce
to help cities improve their management
and planning practices. These funds will
be used increasingly to build the local gov-
ernment's capacity to undertake the neces-
sary fiscal and management reforms.
The Federal government will offer
special consideration in discretionary pro-
grams to cities which achieve coordinated
action at the local level.
II. EMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
There is a serious shortage of jobs for
many residents of our urban areas and a
lack of investment to build the tax base
of our cities.
The urban policy will address this is-
sue in two ways.
In the short run, it will provide addi-
tional employment opportunities through
a labor-intensive public works program, a
targeted employment tax credit, and a pri-
vate sector training and jobs initiative to
encourage businesses to hire the hardcore
unemployed, together with the extension
I have already proposed in employment
and training opportunities under the
CETA Act.
In the long run, the policy attempts to
rebuild the private sector economic base
of these communities through a National
Development Bank, a special tax incen-
tive, an increase in economic development
grants and other incentives.
Labor-intensive Public Works
I ask Congress for $1 billion a year for
a program of labor-intensive public works,
targeted on communities with high un-
employment. Half of the estimated 60,000
full-time equivalent jobs created annually
by this program will be reserved for the
disadvantaged and the long-term unem-
ployed. These workers will be paid at
Davis-Bacon trainee wage levels.
This program will enable cities to make
needed repairs on buildings, streets, parks,
and other public facilities.
In contrast to the Local Public Works
program—which involves projects re-
quiring large equipment, material ex-
penditures and a prolonged planning
period-more of the funds under this
labor-intensive program will go to job
creation.
Targeted Employment Tax Credit
I also propose a Targeted Employment
Tax Credit to encourage business to hire
disadvantaged young workers between the
ages of 18 and 24 who suffer the highest
unemployment rates in the Nation.
Under my proposal, private employers
of young and disadvantaged, or handi-
capped, workers would be entitled to
claim a $2,000 tax credit for each eligible
worker during the first year of employ-
ment and a $1,500 credit for each eligible
worker during the second year.
I am proposing this Targeted Employ-
ment Tax Credit as a substitute for the
expiring Employment Tax Credit. The
current program costs $2.5 billion a year
and has had little influence on hiring deci-
sions. The Administration's targeted pro-
586
