Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 7
Another important provision of this bill
is the $124 million for welfare payments
and medical and social services to refu-
gees from Cambodia, Vietnam, and Laos.
This will reimburse States and local gov-
ernments 100 percent for providing these
basic services to refugees, as well as funds
for special educational and training proj-
ects.
H.R. 9375 also appropriates $80 mil-
lion for the Clinch River Breeder Reactor.
I believe that a strong research and de-
velopment program for the breeder reac-
tor is essential to maintaining a diversity
of energy supply options for this country.
In my FY 1979 budget, I have recom-
mended $367 million for continued re-
search and development on the liquid
metal fast breeder reactor. Our breeder
program is the largest in the world. We
can draw upon this technology—and
build a demonstration plant-whenever
it becomes necessary and economically
feasible.
I believe just as strongly, however, that
we cannot afford to waste vitally needed
energy research and development funding
on energy projects which are neither nec-
essary to meet our projected energy needs
nor economically sound. Development of
coal technology and solar and renewable
resources, resolution of issues hindering
increased use of light water reactors, and
improved oil and gas recovery methods
all must be pursued on a high priority
basis.
In view of these priorities, and my com-
mitment to a strong breeder research and
development program, I continue to be-
lieve that the construction of the CRBR
is an unproductive use of our taxpayers'
dollars, which will not enhance our ability
to call upon the breeder to meet our en-
ergy needs. The $80 million contained in
this bill for the CRBR will be used to com-
plete the systems design for this reactor
and to terminate further CRBR activities
in an orderly way. I will continue to work
with the Congress to ensure that our re-
search and development resources are di-
rected to those programs which will give
us maximum assurance that we can meet
our energy needs.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9375 is Public Law
95-240, approved March 7.
Visit of President Josip Broz Tito
of Yugoslavia
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 7, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. This morning the peo-
ple of the United States are honored by
the presence of a great world leader, Pres-
ident Tito of Yugoslavia.
This is his third visit to the United
States. The last time he was here was in
1971. One of the first actions that I took
as President was to ask Vice President
Mondale to go to Yugoslavia to present
my own respects and admiration to Presi-
dent Tito.
He is indeed a remarkable man who
has exhibited in his own life tremendous
personal courage in battle, in times of se-
vere testing of his strength as a human
being and as a patriot. He's a contempor-
ary of great world leaders who survived
the crises of world war, a friend and as-
sociate of Prime Minister Churchill, Pres-
ident Roosevelt, General de Gaulle. He's
a man who, on his own initiative, com-
bined with other great leaders, Nehru,
Nasser, to form an organization of the
nonaligned peoples of the world. His re-
cent activities in world events have been
truly remarkable for any leader, and par-
ticularly one of his experience and the size
of his nation.
He's a father of the United Nations'
Disarmament Conference, which will take
place later this year. He has recently been
473
