Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
now cut that unemployment rate down
among that particular group so that it is
actually lower than the average of their
age group throughout the country.
I had a meeting at the White House
this past week, this week, with about 150
top business and labor leaders, and they
volunteered now to add 100,000 more
jobs, employing those that are most hard-
core at the time of unemployment, those
that are the last to be hired and the first
to be fired. So unemployment, we've
made very good progress.
We've hammered out now for the first
time in the history of our country again
a comprehensive urban policy. We didn't
do it in an isolated room or from an ivory-
tower prospective in the White House.
We've worked closely with the Members
of Congress, including Gus Hawkins and
others. We worked closely with Gover-
nors, mayors, county officials all over the
Nation, and I think it's gotten almost
unanimous rave reviews.
We didn't add all that much money in
total budget expenditures. It's a very mod-
est financed program, but it brings into
cohesion for the first time the interrela-
tionship among the different departments
and agencies of Government. And its
thrust is, under Pat Harris, better houses,
under the Transportation Department,
better and more focused transportation
systems. And it forms a partnership be-
tween State and local government and the
Federal Government.
I think it will be very constructive in
the future. It really preserves and en-
hances our system of federalism. I'm quite
aware that when we had this general
progress, when the GNP goes up 6 percent
last year, when business profits are at all-
time high, when, lately, the stock market
has gone up, when the unemployment
rate goes down, that there are pockets of
unemployment among young people,
black people, women, that are still ex-
tremely high. And this preys on my mind
constantly, and the Congress is very much
aware of it.
So, we have made some progress in the
short time I've been in the White House.
But I intend to obviously make more
progress. And there I think we can mutu-
ally support one another, because the
State legislators, the Governors, and
others can do a great deal to point out
to us defects in how we administer those
laws and make sure that jobs actually go
to the people that deserve them and want
them, and the housing programs actually
serve those who are most in need, and so
forth.
Transportation, education, all are very
important. We've added more education
dollars to the Federal contribution than
ever before in history, even under Lyn-
don Johnson, but, you know, we don't
administer the elementary and secondary
schools. That's got to be done at the State
level and the local level, and that's the
way it ought to be. So, we'll do our part.
I'm sure you'll do your part to make us
bring about some resolution of these long-
standing, chronic sufferings in our coun-
try that are unwarranted, primarily be-
cause of past discriminations and present
lack of knowledge or callousness about
those who are less fortunate than all of
us assembled here.
Let me say this in closing: I've en-
joyed this very much, and I think you
might want to read over the speech that
I had written earlier. It gives some addi-
tional points that I touched on briefly
this morning. It's helpful to me to under-
stand what questions are of concern to
you.
Illinois is our great agriculture-pro-
ducing State. I'll be meeting with Senator
Bruce and a few others immediately after
this meeting. They've gotten a group of
farmers to give me questions about ex-
ports. We had our best export year in his-
tory last year, even with depressed prices.
We're determined to have an even great-
995
