June 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
condemned racism in all forms. They re-
affirmed the inalienable right of the peo-
ples of Zimbabwe and Namibia to sov-
ereignty and independent development
and the necessity of ensuring a rapid
transfer of power to the African majority,
in the spirit of pertinent United Nations
resolutions.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the situation in South Asia and
the recent events in Afghanistan. They
expressed the hope that while preserving
their independent personalities, stability,
trust and beneficial cooperation among
the countries of the region would con-
tinue.
The President described the state of
talks between the USA and USSR on
the stabilization of their military pres-
ence in the Indian Ocean. The Prime
Minister expressed the hope that these
discussions would continue and result in
the eventual removal of all great power
military presence in the Ocean.
The President and the Prime Minister
had extensive and highly useful discussions
on the Indo-U.S. Nuclear Cooperation
Agreement and statutory requirements
affecting the continued supply of en-
riched uranium from the United States.
They discussed measures to ensure non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons, includ-
ing appropriate universal means of en-
suring that nuclear energy is not misused
for military purposes. They agreed that
the dialogue between the two countries
will continue. President Carter pledged
to make every effort consistent with
American law to maintain fuel supplies
for Tarapur and continue nuclear coop-
eration with India.
The President and the Prime Minister
noted with satisfaction the development
of economic exchanges between their two
countries, and agreed that there is po-
tential for expanding them substantially.
President Carter noted that Commerce
Secretary Kreps would visit India later
this year to explore that potential.
The President and the Prime Minister
welcomed the initiative of the India-U.S.
Business Council in implementing a pro-
gram designed to promote and facilitate
cooperation between Indian and U.S.
commercial organizations in construc-
tion and engineering projects in third
countries. The President noted that the
International Executive Service Corps
would be assigning a highly qualified,
retired American businessman to New
Delhi this fall to pursue this important
Business Council project.
The President and the Prime Minister
welcomed the successful conclusion of ne-
gotiations for an Indo-U.S. understand-
ing providing for concessions under the
Tropical Products Group of the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations as an indica-
tion of their mutual desire to contribute
to a dynamic and open world trading
system. They agreed on the desirability of
fighting protectionism and working to-
ward a more open and fair global trading
system through a successful conclusion to
the Multilateral Trade Negotiations.
They also agreed on the need for close
consultations in these final stages of the
negotiations. It was also agreed that con-
tributions from developing countries
should not be inconsistent with their in-
dividual development, financial and trade
needs. They took note of the recent steps
taken by India to liberalize foreign trade.
Prime Minister Desai and President
Carter reviewed the relations between the
world's industrialized and developing na-
tions. They favored further exchanges of
views between senior officials from the
United States and India, as well as from
other developed and developing coun-
tries. Through such exchanges both de-
veloped and developing countries can
improve their understanding of their
common interests and responsibilities in
1108
