Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
tiers of human liberty and advancing the
principles of genuine peace and stability.
We will remain one with you, Mr. Pres-
ident, in surmounting the tyranny of en-
ergy and in healing the injuries of eco-
nomic uncertainties.
Ever steadfastly, we pledge our total
resources with you in securing the victory
we courageously seek over inequity and
injustice, over ignorance, disease, and
poverty, to the lasting benefit of our chil-
dren's children and even endless future
generations, throughout this our
world.
May Almighty God bless our endeavors
and hasteningly bring peace to mankind
everywhere.
President Carter. President Tolbert,
distinguished officials of the Liberian
Government, members of the diplomatic
corps, and America's valued and dear
friends, the people of Liberia:
I am very happy to be here in Liberia,
a country which is one of America's oldest
friends, and to arrive at this historic air-
field. During the Second World War, as
President Tolbert has described, when it
was known simply as Roberts Field, it was
a vital link in the supply line to Europe
and to North Africa in our common fight
for freedom.
Now, reborn as Roberts International
Airport, with a new terminal recently
opened, it symbolizes the pride, the
achievements, and the great potential of
your nation.
Liberia was born out of mankind's
eternal desire for freedom, and you have
form the first independent republic in
Africa.
During the past century of colonialism,
your independence was preserved. And
now you can look back with pride on 130
years of uninterrupted independence and
freedom, which gives Liberia a respected
senior status among the nations of this
continent.
Franklin Roosevelt did stop here at the
airport in 1943 to meet with President
Barclay, but this is the first official state
visit of an American President, and it is
long overdue. The bonds between our
two countries are too strong for such a
long period ever to elapse again.
We have been very grateful that you
have added to the pleasure and the honor
I feel in arriving here by declaring today
a national holiday. It's a national holiday
in my heart, as well.
Our friendly relationship is of great
mutual advantage and exists on many
levels in the intertwining of our his-
tories, in the democratic tradition estab-
lished in our own Constitutions, and in
the similarity in our forms of govern-
ment. It exists in education, in trade, and
religion. It was perhaps most meaningful
in what President Tolbert has called the
"war against ignorance, disease, and
poverty."
The American people are proud to join
Liberians in this effort through bilateral
relationships between our two countries
and in multilateral programs involving
many countries. Our two Governments
agree that these should be directed toward
achieved it here. The free black people improving the basic conditions of life for
who came from America to this beautiful
coastline in the 19th century were deter-
mined to build a society which reflected
the dignity in their souls and their hope
in their hearts. They joined here in
Liberia with others who longed for a
better life. These two streams united to
those who most need help.
In coming to Liberia, I am reaffirming
a friendship that is very old, but I am also
drawing to a close a series of visits that
reflect a world that is new. Less than three
decades from now, four-fifths of all the
world's people will live in Africa, Asia,
and Latin America-in the sorts of de-
673
