Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
restrictions and consultations with the ap-
propriate committees of the Congress.
In the meantime, the existing provisions
of law will, of course, be faithfully ob-
served by me. But also in the meantime,
we must resist further restrictions being
attached to legislation now before the
Congress.
As we consider new legislation, it is vital
that we recognize our need to be able to
adapt to rapidly changing circumstances.
The foreign assistance legislation now
pending in Congress contains several pro-
posed restrictions on Presidential author-
ity in economic and military aid programs.
While I am prepared to report to Con-
gress and to remain fully accountable to
the American people, I will oppose fur-
ther restrictions. I do so not necessarily
because I intend to exercise my authority
in the areas in question, but to preserve
Presidential capacity to act in the national
interests at a time of rapidly changing
circumstances.
I believe that the congressional leader-
ship and the American people will support
this position.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to now call on Melody Mc-
Dowell for the first question.
QUESTIONS
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
Q. Melody McDowell, Chicago De-
fender. Critics of the Humphrey-Hawkins
bill maintain that those who would stand
to benefit would largely be going from one
form of welfare to another, because the
jobs that are being sold out are not those
that would allow for marketable skills.
Along those lines, what kinds of programs
have you or do you plan to institute which
would allow those who are impoverished
to receive not only a job but also to gain
marketable, career-oriented skills, partic-
ularly among black youth where the un-
employment rate is disproportionately
higher than any other group?
THE PRESIDENT. The Humphrey-Haw-
kins bill does not include specific pro-
grams designed to reduce unemployment.
The Humphrey-Hawkins bill devises a sys-
tem by which the President, the Congress,
State and local governments, the private
sector, can work together with a common
goal of reduced unemployment over a pe-
riod of years.
This legislation puts a constraint on me,
as President, when I put forward a pro-
posal to Congress, when I put forward a
budget, for instance, to explain to the
Congress how it will be impacted by and
how it will help the unemployment rate
in the country.
In the last 16 months, since I've been
in office, we've seen a dramatic reduction
in the unemployment rate. We've added a
net increase of 52 million jobs; the un-
employment rate has dropped from about
8 percent down to 6 percent on a nation-
wide basis. We still have a very high un-
employment rate, however, as Melody
pointed out, among young people, minor-
ity groups, and, in some areas, women.
We have sharply focused Federal pro-
grams to put people back to work. And
the National Alliance of Businessmen, the
labor organizations, and others are also
helping us, for instance, with veterans,
with minority groups, and with young
people.
Sixteen months ago, one of the highest
unemployed groups in the country were
Vietnam veterans. They now have a lower
unemployment rate, because of these
specially focused programs, than the aver-
age American who are in their age group.
And as we've put the general populace
back to work, we can focus much more
narrowly now on those who are the so-
called hardcore unemployed, that is, the
last ones hired and the first ones to be
fired.
So, the Humphrey-Hawkins bill has
nothing in it that would put excessive
973
