Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
This morning, I left the United States
on a journey of 7 days and many thou-
sands of miles. As I left, I told the people
of my country that my purpose in making
this trip would be to discuss with the
leaders of four nations the great issues that
will shape our future as a human family:
peace, justice among individuals and
among nations, the defense of human lib-
erty, how to make the resources of the
Earth meet the needs of all the world's
people.
There is no place I would rather begin
such a journey than here in Venezuela,
my Nation's ally in support of democracy
and one of the world's leaders in the solu-
tion of those issues that trouble us so
much.
Of all the ties that unite our nations,
none is stronger than the devotion we
share to liberty. During my visit, I will
place a wreath on the Pantheon of Simón
Bolívar, who is as admired by my people
as he is by yours. Whenever we honor one
defender of liberty, we honor all whose
lives served that great cause.
Just as our continents are linked, our
destinies are linked as democratic nations.
We know that what in the modern
world affects one nation eventually will
affect all of us. That is why the strength
of
your
democratic institutions here means
so much to us.
We know that whenever the rights of
any individual in the world are dimin-
ished, our own rights are in danger, and
that wherever they are defended, as in
Venezuela, our rights are strengthened.
Your country has many times should-
ered the burden of reducing regional and
international tensions and of attempting
to reduce proliferation of conventional
and nuclear arms. It is these responsibili-
ties which we share that I wish to discuss
with your President and my friend, Carlos
Andrés Pérez.
We have united in seeking cooperation
on energy and on the economic issues that
exist between the nations of the North
and South.
Venezuela has been an important and
constructive leader in the movement to-
ward greater regional cooperation—in the
Andean Pact, in its contribution to the
Caribbean Group, and in its creative di-
rection in establishing SELA, the Latin
American Economic System.
The people of Venezuela were most
gracious and kind in the welcome that
was extended to my wife, Rosalynn, on
her visit here last year, and I am very
happy to return with her.
I am proud to be here among friends.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:22 p.m. at
Simón Bolívar International Airport. President
Pérez spoke in Spanish, and his remarks were
translated by an interpreter. President Carter
also spoke in Spanish, and the translation of
his remarks follows the White House press
release.
Caracas, Venezuela
Remarks at a Wreath laying Ceremony at the
Tomb of Simón Bolívar. March 28, 1978
I want to speak to all the Venezuelans
and to the rest of our friends gathered
here.
I am very moved. I have just offered in
the name of my people the affection and
respect due to the liberator Simón
Bolívar. I have also just set foot on Vene-
zuelan soil and felt the generous friend-
ship of this great democracy.
Bolívar has not plowed in the sea. His
inspiring presence and the goals that our
two countries share are forces that inspire
me and give me confidence in the success
of our struggle for the dignity of man and
the well-being of peoples in the Americas
and throughout the world.
615
