Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Most civil service employees perform
with spirit and integrity. Nevertheless,
there is still a widespread criticism of Fed-
eral Government performance. The pub-
lic suspects that there are too many Gov-
ernment workers, that they are under-
worked, overpaid, and insulated from the
consequences of incompetence.
Such sweeping criticisms are unfair to
dedicated Federal workers who are con-
scientiously trying to do their best. But
we have to recognize that the only way
to restore public confidence in the vast
majority who do work well is to deal effec-
tively and firmly with those who do not.
The two complaints most often heard
against the present system are that Fed-
eral employees have too little protection
against political abuse and too much pro-
tection against legitimate assessment of
performance and skills. These charges
sound contradictory, but both of them
happen to be true. And the system that
perpetuates them needs to be changed.
For the past 7 months, a task force of
more than 100 career civil servants has
analyzed the civil service, explored its
weaknesses and strengths, and suggested
how it can be improved. Their judgments
are reflected in the message that I will
send to the Congress today. Some of the
leading congressional reorganizers are
here with me, and I would say in gratitude
to them that there's been an unprece-
dented, close working relationship be-
tween the Congress, its staff members, and
the White House, the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and others.
Today, I'd like to outline these proposals
and explain the reasoning behind them.
They represent the most sweeping reform
of the civil service system since it was
created nearly 100 years ago.
The simple concept of a merit system
has grown into a tangled web of compli-
cated rules and regulations. Managers
are weakened in their ability to reward
the best and most talented people and to
fire those few who are unwilling to work.
The sad fact is that it is easier to pro-
mote and to transfer incompetent em-
ployees than it is to get rid of them. It may
take as long as 3 years merely to fire some-
one for a just cause, and at the same time
the protection of legitimate rights is costly
and time-consuming for the employee.
You cannot run a farm that way, you
cannot run a factory that way, and you
cannot run a government that way.
We've lost sight of the original pur-
pose, which was to reward merit. More
than 99 percent of all Federal employees
get a so-called merit rating. And last year,
out of about 2 million employees, only
226 people lost their jobs for incompe-
tence or inefficiency. That's about one
one-hundredth of 1 percent.
So, my first proposition is this: There
is not enough merit in the merit system.
There is inadequate motivation because
we have too few rewards for excellence
and too few penalties for unsatisfactory
work.
We must encourage better performance
in ways that are used widely and effec-
tively already throughout private industry
in our country.
Top Federal employees are ready and
willing to respond to the risks and rewards
of competitive life, and public service will
be healthier when they have that chance.
We must strike a new balance that pre-
serves the merit principle while giving
managers the incentive and the authority
in hiring and to manage.
We propose to do this first by creating
a Senior Executive Service, whose 9,200
members will be available to serve
wherever in Government they are most
needed. Participation in this effort will be
voluntary. They will be eligible for annual
bonuses for superior performance and can
be moved from the Senior Executive Serv-
436
