Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
every $10,000 expended and/or where
EDA has invested considerable resources
in a community's development. Both
agencies intend minorities to be the ma-
jor beneficiaries of their rule changes.
The Department of Labor has launched
a program to assist native American com-
munities in starting communications fa-
cilities. The program will provide train-
ing coordinated with various Government
loan programs.
Public broadcasting would be further
opened to minorities by President Carter's
Public Broadcasting Act, proposed in Oc-
tober 1977. The bill would change the
grant program for public broadcasting
facilities to make minority control a pri-
mary consideration for choosing grantees.
In addition, the administration pro-
gram addresses Federal agencies' adver-
tising programs. The Office of Federal
Procurement Policy, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, is working with the
Department of Defense, AMTRAK, the
Postal Service, and other agencies which
advertise to establish by June 1978 poli-
cies and procedures to increase the flow
of Federal advertising business to minor-
ity-owned advertising and production
firms and to minority-owned media.
The administration also has been co-
ordinating with professional and industry
groups in seeking to promote minority as-
sistance programs:
-The National Association of Broad-
casters has formed a Minority Ownership
Task Force with representatives from the
broadcasting industry, civil rights organi-
zations, and foundations to develop finan-
cial assistance and other remedies for
potential minority broadcast owners.
-The National Radio Broadcasters
Association has drafted a program to es-
tablish an information clearinghouse on
available radio properties and a "buddy
system,” making management and financ-
ing assistance available to qualified poten-
tial and existing minority broadcasters.
-The National Cable Television As-
sociation, through a program it established
a year ago, has helped establish the Ameri-
can Association of Cable Television Own-
ers, an organization to assist minorities in
obtaining debt financing for cable televi-
sion. In addition, NCTA has formed an
advisory committee of financiers and
cable brokers who give free assistance to
minority cable franchise holders and who
are working with the financial community
to bring them together with minority cable
franchisees.
-The Federal Communications Bar
Association has established a free and re-
duced fee legal assistance program for
qualified minorities.
-The American Association of Adver-
tising Agencies (AAAA) has formed a
Task Force of the AAAA, the Association
of National Advertisers, the American Re-
search Foundation, and minority station
owners to examine the methods employed
by rating services in measuring minority
audiences and the industry's advertising
selling practices as they relate to minority
outlets.
The administration program was de-
veloped by the Office of Telecommuni-
cations Policy and the White House staff
as part of President Carter's efforts to aid
minority business. Coordination of the
program will be assumed by the National
Telecommunications and Information
Administration in the Commerce Depart-
ment when it replaces OTP upon imple-
mentation of Reorganization Plan No. 1.
In the future, the program will include
initiatives in advertising and rating prac-
tices and minority participation in the
development of emerging telecommunica-
tions services.
254
