June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. May I follow that up, Mr. Presi-
dent? Some of the people who have been
arrested have said you have ceased to talk
about particular cases, that you just speak
now about human rights in general and
that has left them victim to the Soviet
crackdown.
Have you, in fact, ceased to come to the
defense of people like Mr. Slepak and Mr.
Shcharanskiy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you just men-
tioned three cases, and-maybe you men-
tioned four. I've commented on all of
those, and I think that it's important for
the world to monitor what goes on in the
Soviet Union. I have not avoided a ref-
erence both publicly and privately to the
Soviet Union on specific cases, and I
intend to continue to do so.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-third news con-
ference began at 3 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
United States Ambassador to
The Netherlands
Nomination of Geri M. Joseph.
June 14, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Geri M. Joseph, of Minne-
apolis, Minn., to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the United
States to The Netherlands. She would re-
place Robert J. McCloskey, who has been
appointed Ambassador to Greece.
Joseph was born June 19, 1923, in St.
Paul, Minn. She received a B.S. from the
University of Minnesota in 1946.
From 1946 to 1953, Joseph was a staff
writer for the Minneapolis Tribune. Since
1972 she has been contributing editor.
She is active in civic affairs and is a
member of the President's Commission on
Mental Health and the Minnesota Su-
preme Court Commission on the Men-
tally Disabled and the Courts.
University Press Centennial
Observance
Proclamation 4575. June 14, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
America's colleges and universities have
always met their responsibilities for pre-
serving and enlarging the body of human
knowledge. In our open society, they have
an additional duty-that of making such
knowledge available beyond the gates of
the campus.
It was in recognition of that duty that
the first university-affiliated press was es-
tablished, in 1878, at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. In the century since, our coun-
try's university presses have established an
admirable tradition of literary and graph-
ic quality. Today the standard of excel-
lence which they have established is being
applied to an ever-increasing variety of
subjects. As a result, one-sixth of all
American books in print today are issued
by American university presses.
In recognition of the impact, both here
and abroad, of American university press-
es on culture and scholarship, the Ninety-
fifth Congress, by joint resolution (S.J.
Res. 140) has asked the President to issue
proclamation commemorating the
American university press.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the seven-day period
ending on June 17, 1978 as University
1100
