Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
India sets a moral standard for many
of us to emulate. And the judgment that
is spoken by the leaders of your country
makes a great impact on those of us who
sometimes have been criticized. We think
twice before we incur the disapproval of
India and your leaders, because we realize
that your standards of morality and jus-
tice are very deeply felt.
You have an ability to bridge the gap
between those who have a developed so-
ciety, and you understand in personal
terms the hungers and the needs and the
yearnings and the unmet aspirations of
those who live in nations which are still
developing.
The last thing I would like to say is
that there has been somewhat of a circle
of influence between our country and
yours. I'm very proud of my Nation, al-
though most of my words have been in
praise of your own. I have read some of
the works of Mahatma Gandhi, and I
know that he was greatly impressed by our
poet Ralph Waldo Emerson and by a man
who loved God's world, Henry David
Thoreau. I brought your Prime Minister
a gift of the collected works of Thoreau
because of Ghandi's respect for him.
And when Gandhi learned even more
and gave his life in the cause for which he
stood, many of our own people learned
from him and were inspired by him.
cle of friendship, a circle of respect, and
also a circle of shared responsibilities and
shared commitments.
The quality of our life is not yet what
we would hope. We have many things to
learn. We have many grievances to re-
dress. We have many degrees of freedom
still left to enhance. We are far short of
our dream of peace. But in a democratic
society like our own, when the yearnings
of every person can make an impact upon
the decisions of the leaders, there is al-
ways a sure sense that progress will be
ever upward.
I would like to propose a toast on be-
half of my own Nation and the American
citizens who are here tonight, Mr. Presi-
dent: To President Reddy, to Mrs.
Reddy, to the distinguished leaders of In-
dia, to the great people of India, and to
peace throughout the world.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:55 p.m. in
Ashoka Hall at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.
New Delhi, India
Remarks on Signing the Delhi Declaration.
January 3, 1978
Prime Minister Desai has read a joint
declaration which he and I drafted to-
This afternoon, I just mentioned one
of our leaders, Martin Luther King, Jr., gether. At the heart of the friendship be-
who studied the works of Gandhi and
adopted nonviolence and the force of
truth as the essence of his own beliefs.
And although he never carried a weapon
and never struck another human being,
but turned his face when he was beaten
and suffered many times in jails, he re-
membered the teachings of Gandhi.
So, from our country to you, and from
you back to our country, there is a circle
of learning, a circle of mutual trust, a cir-
tween India and the United States is our
determination that the moral values of
our people must also guide the actions of
the states, the governments.
Both our nations were the conscious
creation of men and women who be-
lieved that spiritual principles could find
political expression. Gandhi and Nehru,
Washington and Jefferson, the thou-
sands-and actually millions-who
worked with them, those whom they led,
16
