Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 12, 1978
Equal Employment
Opportunity Enforcement
Statement Issued Following the Completion
of Congressional Consideration of Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 of 1978. May 6, 1978
In February, I submitted to the Con-
gress a major plan to reorganize the Fed-
eral Government's equal employment op-
portunity enforcement activities. The plan
offers a good example of how reorganiza-
tion can both improve Government com-
petence and also reduce its unnecessary
burden on the American people.
The need to reorganize our equal em-
ployment programs has been long recog-
nized by both civil rights and business
groups alike. Since 1941, when President
Roosevelt issued the first Executive order
to forbid employment discrimination in
the Federal Government, our Nation has
taken historic steps to extend equal em-
ployment opportunity throughout the pri-
vate, as well as the public sector.
Each new prohibition has unfortunate-
ly brought with it a further fragmenta-
tion of administrative responsibility and
management. A large number of differ-
ent departments and agencies have be-
come involved, resulting in needless
confusion, paperwork, duplication, and
delay.
Under special reorganization authority
adopted by Congress last year, the reor-
ganization plan I submitted in February
goes into effect today. It replaces a cha-
otic picture with a coherent and sensible
structure.
It will improve enforcement of equal
employment opportunities and reduce
the burden of equal employment enforce-
ment on business by consolidating the
number of agencies involved in this area.
NOTE: For the text of Reorganization Plan
No. 1, see page 400 of this volume.
National Advisory Committee for
Women
Executive Order 12057. May 8, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution of the
United States of America, and in order
to expand the membership of the Nation-
al Advisory Committee for Women, Sec-
tion 2 of Executive Order No. 12050 of
April 4, 1978 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
"Sec. 2. Membership. The President
shall appoint not more than forty individ-
uals to serve on the Committee and shall
designate a chairperson or co-chairper-
sons from among the members.".
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 8, 1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:44 a.m., May 8, 1978]
883
