Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 28
LOLA REDFORD, of Provo, Utah, president of
the board of directors of Consumer Action
Now;
WINONA E. SAMPLE, of Santa Clara, Calif.,
chief of the Indian health section for the
California Department of Health;
NANCY SPEARS, of Auburn, Ala., a former
kindergarten teacher and active in educa-
tional and community development activ-
ities in Auburn;
MARLO THOMAS, the actress, also honorary
chairwoman of the Children's Television
Project of the Educational Foundation of
American Women in Radio and Television;
CAROL H. TICE, of Ann Arbor, Mich., proj-
ect director of Teaching-Learning Commu-
nities for the Elementary and Secondary
Education Association.
International Year of the
Child, 1979
Remarks on U.S. Participation in the
Program. June 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This afternoon, as far as
the United States of America is con-
cerned, we're beginning to emphasize and
hopefully even to dramatize our own com-
mitment to making the International
Year of the Child a success.
In December of 1976, the United Na-
tions passed a resolution setting aside a
special period for a worldwide assessment
of the problems, the needs, the opportu-
nities of children. There are 12 billion
children in the world. And although our
own country has been blessed with, I'd
say, at least adequate material needs to
make our lives certainly more pleasant
and more prosperous than most, even in
the United States we have serious prob-
lems among our children.
We had, last year, a million children
whose rights were abused, who suffered
physical abuse from their parents. And I
don't think there's an adequate under-
standing yet in our societal structure of
this devastating demonstration of care-
lessness or cruelty, quite often perpe-
trated against a young person who has
very little voice to express pain or suffer-
ing or displeasure.
In our rich country, we have 10 mil-
lion children who have never had any
medical care at all, and about half the
children in this country have never seen
a dentist.
I believe that most Americans are un-
aware of these few statistics. And I would
hope that next year, as the world focuses
its attention upon children, that all of us
could become much more knowledgeable
about the need, much more willing to
assume responsibility for correcting and
meeting those needs, and that we might
in a positive way assess the unique oppor-
tunity to broaden the horizon of growth
and enjoyment and the productivity of
our children's lives, both now and in the
future.
I've asked Jean Young, Mrs. Andrew
Young, to be the chairman of the Ameri-
can committee for the International Year
of the Child. She's in a special place, asso-
ciated intimately with the families of rep-
resentatives of almost every nation on
Earth. She's a mother herself. Her hus-
band and she have been involved in the
correction of a very serious deprivation of
rights because of racial discrimination.
And I think she has both the knowledge,
the influence, the prestige, the courage,
and the commitment to lead our own
effort here in the United States well and
effectively.
I'll be working closely with this group
and hope to add the prestige and the in-
fluence of the Presidency itself to making
this a successful effort.
We will be eager to help others, chil-
dren in nations not quite so blessed with
the material benefits of life in this next
year. This effort will encompass almost
every aspect of humanitarian service.
Working through UNICEF and other
1191
