Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 1
Our nations and our continents are
bound together by strong ties that we in-
herit from our histories. We also share
three basic commitments to the future of
Africa.
We share with you a commitment to
majority rule and individual human
rights. In order to meet the basic needs of
the people, we share with you a commit-
ment to economic growth and to human
development. We share with you a com-
mitment to an Africa that is at peace,
free
from colonialism, free from racism, free
from military interference by outside na-
tions, and free from the inevitable con-
flicts that can come when the integrity of
national boundaries are not respected. We
share these things with you as well.
These three common commitments
shape our attitude toward your conti-
nent. You have been among the leaders
of international efforts to bring the prin-
ciples of majority rule and individual
rights into reality in southern Africa.
During the past year, we've worked
closely with your Government and the
other frontline states in the quest to
achieve these goals in Namibia and in
Zimbabwe.
Our efforts have now reached a critical
stage. On Namibia, there has been some
progress, with the parties showing some
degree of flexibility. It is important that
accommodation be now reached. This
past week, we and the other Western
members of the United Nations Security
Council have presented to the disputing
parties our proposals for an internation-
ally acceptable agreement based on free
elections.
These proposals provide the best hope
for a fair and peaceful solution that will
bring independence to Namibia in a man-
ner consistent with Security Council
Security Council
Resolution 385. No group is favored at
the expense of another. They protect the
rights of all. They should be accepted
without further delay.
The tragic assassination of Chief
Kapuuo should not lead to an era of vio-
lence and recrimination, but to an inter-
nationally supervised choice by the people
of Namibia to elect leadership that will
unite their country in peace and not
divide it in war.
On Rhodesia, or Zimbabwe, Great
Britain and the United States have put
forward a plan for the solution, based on
three fundamental principles: first, fair
and free elections; secondly, an irreversi-
ble transition to genuine majority rule
and independence; and third, respect for
the individual rights of all the citizens of
an independent Zimbabwe.
This plan provides the best basis for
agreement. It is widely supported within
the international community and by the
Presidents of the frontline nations who
surround Zimbabwe itself. Its principles
must be honored. Let there be no ques-
tion of the commitment of the United
States to these principles or our determi-
nation to pursue a just settlement which
brings a cease-fire and an internationally
recognized legal government.
The present challenge to our diplomacy
and to yours is to help all the parties get
together, based on the Anglo-American
plan, and build on areas of agreement.
Only a fair arrangement with broad sup-
port among the parties can endure.
The transition to independence of a
new Zimbabwe must ensure an oppor-
tunity for all parties to compete in the
democratic process on an equal footing.
The past must lead irrevocably to ma-
jority rule and a future in which the
rights of each citizen of Zimbabwe are
protected, regardless of tribal or ethnic
origin or race. That is our Nation's posi-
tion. We will not depart from it.
647
