Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
will take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC), transmitted to me on
February 3, 1978, concerning the results
of its investigation of a petition for import
relief filed by E. G. Johnson Company on
behalf of the domestic industry producing
citizens band (CB) radio transceivers,
provided for in item 685.25 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects of
the case, including those considerations set
forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade Act
of 1974, I have determined that neither
of the recommendations of the USITC
are appropriate in this case. I have, how-
ever, determined that import relief is in
the national economic interest and there-
fore will proclaim a tariff increase with
respect to Citizens Band (CB) radio
transceivers (except hand-held), provided
for in item 685.25 of the TSUS, of 15
additional percentage points in the first
year, to be phased down in three percent-
age point decrements for the following
two years. The duty would then revert to
its current rate of six percent ad valorem.
Expedited adjustment assistance would
be ineffective in helping the industry cope
with current problems of severe inventory
overhang, low prices, and financial losses.
The import relief recommended by the
USITC of a 30 percentage point tariff in-
crease is not in the national economic in-
terest because it would substantially in-
crease costs to consumers. In a time when
we are striving to control inflation, this
cost would be too high.
The moderate tariff increase over a
three year period that I will proclaim will
have a much smaller price effect than the
30 percentage point added duty over five
years recommended by the USITC. Fur-
thermore, CBs are a final consumer good
precluding ripple price effects on other
goods.
The moderate tariff increase would en-
able domestically produced CBs to be
competitively priced relative to imports.
Domestic manufacturers may be able to
expand their share of the market. This
could be achieved by utilizing their al-
ready developed, but now excess, capacity.
Firms and workers and communities
would still remain eligible for adjustment
assistance.
This determination is to be published in
the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:12 p.m., March 27, 1978]
Energy Emergency in
Pennsylvania
Statement on Extending the Energy
Emergency Determination. March 27, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I determined on February 24,
1978, that a regional energy emergency
existed in the State of Pennsylvania of
such severity that a temporary suspension
of certain particulate and sulfur dioxide
control regulations under the Pennsylva-
nia Air Quality Implementation Plan
might be necessary. I ordered the deter-
mination to be in effect for not more than
30 days unless I rescinded it before that
time or extended it. Because of continuing
energy supply problems throughout the
State, I hereby extend the regional energy
emergency determination for the State of
Pennsylvania for a second 30-day period.
During this extension, the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency
retains full authority to disapprove tem-
porary suspensions of regulations in Penn-
sylvania on a case-by-case basis and to ex-
609
