June 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
perbly in protecting minority interests
and in every way that could be examined
or cross-examined by black groups or any
other. So, my confidence in him is very
high.
We've not talked to anybody about
coming to the White House except
Mayor Hatcher. And the first time I ever
met him and as far as I ever went with
him was to explore the possibility of his
coming in in a very tentative way. We
didn't offer him a position; he did not
refuse it. When I first talked to him on an
exploratory basis, he said that he would
like to come very much, he would enjoy
working here.
He had complete confidence in our ad-
ministration, which he's repeated since
then. But he had obligations in Gary that
he didn't think he could leave. And also
the legislature there has passed a recent
law saying that if he did leave, his suc-
cessor would not be chosen on an open
election basis, but they would be ap-
pointed by Democratic precinct chairmen
or some sort of an arrangement where the
political structure that has been his polit-
ical enemies in the past would choose his
successor. Now, those were the reasons
that he gave me.
So, you said a series of blacks have re-
fused to serve. I don't know of any black
leader who's refused to serve, because
we've only talked to Mayor Hatcher and
I've described the essence of the con-
versation.
MAINE INDIAN LAND CLAIMS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Don Snyder
from Bar Harbor Times in Bar Harbor,
Maine. You were in Maine recently and
addressed a town meeting, at which time
I felt you demonstrated a sincere concern
for the Maine Indians. As you know,
we're having a sticky negotiation with
two Indian tribes in Maine now that are
claiming ownership of a considerable
portion of land and some damages and
trespass as well.
Some of the political leaders in Maine
today are saying that Maine citizens
should not accept a resolution to this
problem that is not wholly Federal. In
other words, they should not accept a
resolution that involves any Maine land
or Maine dollars. And insofar as this case
might be a harbinger to other cases across
the country, would you care to comment
about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there's no way
that I could comment any further than
I did when I was in Maine, and I ex-
pressed my position very clearly then. In
my opinion, the proposal that was worked
out between the Justice Department, the
Interior Department, the Indians, and
some of the private interests and with no
participation much by the State, because
they would not participate; they were
invited to do so I thought was quite
reasonable.
Judge Gunter, a distinguished jurist,
was the referee, in effect, who made a
proposal, and I think that it's a very fair
one to the Indians and to the people of
Maine. Obviously, this is a political issue
in Maine during an election year. And
someone running for office for a high posi-
tion in Maine would naturally be inclined
to want the Federal Government to pay
all the costs and for the taxpayers of
Maine or the property owners in Maine
not to pay any. But I think this is a very
reasonable resolution of a longstanding
problem that has been proposed that
would be fair to the Indians and fair to
the people of Maine, fair to the private
property owners both large and small.
We have obviously nothing to gain
politically by trying to inject ourselves
into the proposition. We could have just
said "hands off" and let it languish in
court for years, but this would have pre-
1076
