Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 7
danger. The labor laws of our country, of
the United States, have been written to
protect our Nation and at the same time
to protect the rights of workers.
In times of crisis, the law binds us to-
gether. It allows us to make decisions
openly and peacefully, and it gives us,
through the courts and legal procedures,
means to resolve disputes fairly. Respect
for the rule of law ensures the strength of
our Nation. The law will be enforced.
As President, I call on the mineworkers,
the coal mine operators, and all Ameri-
cans to join in a common effort under
the law to protect our country, to pre-
serve the health and safety of our people,
and to resolve fairly the differences which
have already caused so much suffering
and division in our land.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:32 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. His
remarks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
United States-United Kingdom
Air Services Agreement
Letter to the Chairman of the Civil
Aeronautics Board. March 6, 1978
To Chairman Alfred Kahn
I have examined your order (Docket
32183) dated February 28, 1978, which
proposes to take certain actions regarding
air fares and services between points in
Texas and London.
The Board and I share the same com-
mitment to low-priced, competitive air
transportation, a principle embodied in
Article 12, Section 2 of the US-UK Air
Services Agreement of 1977 (Bermuda
II). I agree with the Board that the ac-
tion of the British government in reject-
ing low-fare tariffs filed by Braniff Inter-
national Airways for its new Dallas/Ft.
Worth-London route is inconsistent with
Bermuda II.
I note, however, that negotiations with
the British government concerning this
matter began on February 10 and resume
today for the period March 6 through
March 17. I am confident that during
these negotiations the British government
will adopt a position consistent with
Bermuda II, and I therefore request that
you withdraw your order at this time. If a
satisfactory resolution with the British is
not reached by March 17, I will recon-
sider the need for unilateral action by the
United States.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Alfred Kahn, Chairman,
Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.
20428]
Energy Emergency in Maryland
Statement by the President. March 7, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Maryland,
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I hereby determine that an en-
ergy emergency exists in the service area
of the Potomac Edison Company of such
severity that a temporary suspension of
certain particulate regulations under the
Maryland Air Quality Implementation
Plan may be necessary, and that other
means of responding to the energy emer-
gency may be inadequate. This determi-
nation shall be effective for not more than
thirty (30) days, provided that the State
of Maryland shall hold the public hearing
required by Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act within 1 week of this determina-
tion. If, during the period of suspension,
I find that this energy emergency no
longer exists, I will direct that this deter-
mination of energy emergency be re-
471
