Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ercise his emergency powers authority
under Section 303 of the Clean Air Act,
when and if necessary.
I urge the Governor to continue to act
with due care if he further suspends any
air pollution regulations under the author-
ity provided by the extension of this deter-
mination, since such regulations are im-
portant to protect public health.
NOTE: The statement was released on
March 28.
The Presidential determination of March 27
is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
March 30, 1978.
The President's Trip to
Latin America and Africa
Remarks on Departure From the White
House. March 28, 1978
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President and
Rosalynn:
In our complete commitment to the suc-
cess of this journey, we've decided to send
with the President a mature adviser on
foreign affairs, and I'm pleased to an-
nounce that we've been successful in our
plans. Mr. Zbig Brzezinski, who is today
50 years old, carries with him all of those
years and all of that experience and will
bring that new talent and background to
bear to assure the success of this mission.
Mr. President, in your commencement
address at Notre Dame last year, you said
that American foreign policy is based on
an historical vision of America's role; de-
rived from a larger view of global change;
rooted in our moral values, which never
change; reinforced by our military wealth
and our material power; designed to serve
mankind.
You pledged in your Notre Dame ad-
dress that we will cooperate more closely
with the newly influential countries in
Latin America, Africa, and Asia. You said
we need their friendship and cooperation
in a common effort as the structure of the
world changes.
The strength of your commitment to
these objectives is demonstrated clearly by
your travel this week to Venezuela, Brazil,
Nigeria, and Liberia. Your journey under-
lines our friendship with these nations and
the determination of the United States
to work with them.
Mr. President and Rosalynn, we know
your trip will be a success. You take with
you the admiration and love of the Ameri-
can people, and we look forward to having
you back with us.
THE PRESIDENT. When the Vice Presi-
dent was announcing that I was taking
my
senior foreign affairs adviser with me,
I thought surely he was going to introduce
Amy, who's also going on the trip.
[Laughter]
Yesterday was Cy Vance's birthday.
And we've all formed a very close and
harmonious relationship as we've studied
how our Nation should deal with foreign
countries in the crucial element of pre-
paring American people for the years
ahead.
Today I leave on a journey which will
reflect our own Nation's ability to deal in
a constructive and a creative way with the
diversity of the world in which we live.
At every stop on this trip, our guiding
principles will be economic justice, human
rights, fair relations among nations, and a
search for a peaceful resolution of the
world's conflicts and potential conflicts.
We have special and longlasting ties
with both Latin America and with Africa.
Many of our people trace their roots to
these two continents, and we share with
these nations a history of freedom won
through combat from colonial domina-
tion and rule.
610
