Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
ice back to their previous civil service
status for poor performance.
I'll also ask the Congress to authorize
the use of incentive pay for the 72,000
Federal managers and supervisors in
grades GS-13 through GS-15, which is a
far more attractive and sensible acknowl-
edgement of merit than the silver water
carafes and the thicker carpets that pass
for recognition today. They will no longer
receive automatic step increases in pay
without regard for performance.
Another proposal which will improve
managerial excellence is a speedier and a
fairer disciplinary system which will cre-
ate a climate in which managers may
discharge nonperforming employees,
using due process, of course, with reason-
able assurance that their judgment, if
valid, will prevail. At the same time, em-
ployees will receive a more rapid hearing
for their own grievances.
The procedures that exist to protect
employee rights are absolutely essential.
But employee appeals must now go
through the Civil Service Commission,
which has a built-in conflict of interest
by serving simultaneously as rulemaker,
prosecutor, judge, and employee advocate.
So, my second proposition is: Em-
ployees still have too little protection for
their rights. I propose to divide the pres-
ent Civil Service Commission into two
bodies-an Office of Personnel Manage-
ment to improve the productivity and
performance of Federal workers, and a
Merit Protection Board to stand watch
against merit abuses and to resolve the
appeals which are brought by employees.
I will also propose an Office of Special
Counsel to investigate merit violations
and to protect the so-called whistle-
blowers who expose gross management
errors and abuses.
And finally, I propose the creation of
a Federal Labor Relations Authority to
remedy unfair labor practices within the
Government, much as the National Labor
Relations Board does now in private in-
dustry. In addition, we will continue to
work with Congress and the Federal em-
ployees to develop legislation which,
while recognizing the special require-
ments of the Federal Government, will
improve Federal labor practices.
One other serious defect remains;
that's the network of rules governing
hiring, staffing, and tenure. We should
give each agency more control over its
own hiring rather than the Civil Service
Commission, which now takes as long as
6 or 8 months merely to fill important
positions.
Current rules which often impede the
hiring of qualified women, minorities,
and the handicapped, by giving veterans
a lifetime advantage under civil service
laws, must be changed. (They provide
an advantage)ยน far beyond the benefits
that are provided under other veterans
programs, which are designed legitimately
to ease the readjustment from military
back to civilian life.
Therefore, we propose to reduce the
preferential advantage given to nondis-
abled veterans to a 10-year period and to
end this preference altogether for senior
military officers who retire with pension
benefits after a full military career. At the
same time, we will strengthen provisions
to ensure that disabled veterans and those
who served during and since Vietnam
are fully protected under the civil service
laws.
Let me be straightforward about the
implications of all this. Our proposals will
mean less job security only for incom-
petent Federal employees, but conscien-
tious civil servants will benefit from a
change that recognizes and rewards good
performance.
1 Printed in the transcript.
437
