Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and the Treasury. This will ensure coor-
dination between the major economic,
community development and urban
finance agencies of the government.
The Office of Management and
Budget is currently assessing the organiza-
tion of the Federal economic and commu-
nity development activities. The Bank
will function on an interagency basis
pending recommendations in this area.
Economic Development Grants
I propose substantial increases of $275
million each in the UDAG grant program
and the EDA Title IX program. These
increases will be used in conjunction with
the financing incentives available from
the National Development Bank.
Taken together these major increases
will help leverage substantial new private
sector investment in urban areas and ad-
dress the long-term economic deteriora-
tion experienced by certain urban and
rural areas.
Differential Investment Tax Credit
I propose that firms that locate or
expand in economically distressed areas
be eligible for a differential 5 percent in-
vestment tax credit, to a total of 15 per-
cent for both structures and equipment.
The credit would be available only to
firms awarded "Certificates of Necessity"
by the Commerce Department based on
financing need and employment poten-
tial.
Commerce will be authorized to issue
up to $200 million in certificates for each
of the next two years.
Air Quality Planning Grants
I propose a $25 million planning grant
program to help cities and communities
comply with the Clean Air Act without
limiting severely new, private sector in-
vestment within their areas.
I have also asked EPA, HUD and EDA
to provide technical assistance to help
local governments reconcile potential
conflicts between air pollution and eco-
nomic development goals.
Minority Business
Minority businesses are a critical part
of the private sector economic base of
many cities, communities and neighbor-
hoods, and provide important employ-
ment opportunities to city residents.
I propose today two important initia-
tives which will increase the role of mi-
nority businesses in our economy. First,
in comparison with FY 1977 levels, we
will triple Federal procurement from
minority businesses by the end of FY
1979 an increase over our earlier com-
mitment to double minority procure-
ment.
In addition, I intend to ask all Fed-
eral agencies to include goals for minor-
ity business participation in their con-
tract and grant-in-aid programs. Five
agencies HUD, Commerce, EPA, In-
terior and DOT-already have proposed
improvements in minority business pro-
grams. These programs all build on our
successful experience with the Local Pub-
lic Works Program.
Finally, I intend to facilitate greater
interaction between the minority busi-
ness community and the leaders of our
Nation's largest corporations.
Community Development Corporations
I propose that an additional $20 mil-
lion be appropriated to the Community
Services Administration as venture capi-
tal for the most effective Community De-
velopment Corporations. This assistance
will help them have a substantial impact
on their designated areas.
The funding will be made available
for projects that receive support from
local elected officials, involve leveraging
private sector funds and are coordinated
588
