Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
be a temporary phenomenon. The best
estimates indicate that unless new pro-
ductive capacity is developed, the whole
world with its rapidly growing population
may be facing large food shortages in the
mid-1980's.
The greatest opportunities to increase
agricultural productivity exist here in
India and elsewhere in the developing
world. These opportunities must be seized
not just so that Indians can eat better, but
so that India can remain self-sufficient
and, perhaps, even continue to export
food to countries with less agricultural
potential than you have.
In the past, America and India have
scored monumental achievements in
working together in the agricultural field.
But there is still a vast, unrealized poten-
tial to be tapped.
I would like to see an intensified agri-
cultural research program aimed both at
improving productivity in India and at
developing processes that could then be
used elsewhere. This program could be
based in the agricultural universities of
our two countries, but would also extend
across the whole frontier of research. And
beyond research, I would like to identify
joint development projects where research
can be tested and put to work.
Perhaps Prime Minister Desai and I
may now instruct our governments to
focus on these matters and to come up
with specific proposals within the next few
months.
One of the most promising areas for in-
ternational cooperation, which I have al-
ready discussed with your Prime Minister,
is in the regions of eastern India and
Bangladesh, where alternating periods of
drought and flood cut cruelly into food
production. Several hundred million peo-
ple live in this area. They happen to be
citizens of India, Bangladesh, and Nepal.
Great progress has already been made
between your nations in resolving ques-
tions concerning water. And we are pre-
pared to give our support when the
regional states request a study that will
define how the international community,
in cooperation with the nations of South
Asia, can help the peoples of this area
use water from the rivers and the moun-
tains to achieve the productivity that is
inherent in the land and the people.
Sustained economic growth requires a
strong base in energy as well as in agricul-
ture. Energy is a serious problem in both
our countries, for both of us import oil at
levels that can threaten our economic
health and expose us, even, to danger if
supplies are interrupted. American firms
are already working with Indians in de-
veloping the oil-producing area off the
shores of India, near Bombay.
We also have a long record of coopera-
tion in the development of nuclear power,
another important element of India's en-
ergy plans. Our work together will con-
tinue in this field, as well. This is a cold,
technological subject. But Prime Minister
Desai and I had warm and productive dis-
cussions about this field. We have notified
him that shipments of nuclear fuel will be
made for the Tarapur reactor.
And because of an accident that did
occur in your heavy water production
plant, we will make available to India,
also, supplies from our reserves of heavy
water.
Additionally, we stand ready to work
with you in developing renewable energy
resources, especially solar energy. There is
no shortage of sunlight in India. And the
lack of a massive, existing infrastructure
tied to fossil fuel use will make the appli-
cation of solar and solar-related energy
vastly easier here than it will be in my
own country, where we are so heavily de-
pendent upon other sources of energy.
However, the inherently decentralized na-
ture of solar energy makes it ideal as a
complement to your government's stress
8
