Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
treats in detail a wide range of civil and
political rights. Freedom of speech and
thought, participation in government, and
others are included which Americans have
always considered vital to a free, open and
humane society. United States ratification
of the Convention will give us a unique
opportunity to express our support for
the cause of human rights in the
Americas.
The great majority of the substantive
provisions of these four treaties are en-
tirely consistent with the letter and spirit
of the United States Constitution and
laws. Wherever a provision is in conflict
with United States law, a reservation,
understanding or declaration has been
recommended. The Department of Jus-
tice concurs in the judgment of the De-
partment of State that, with the inclusion
of these reservations, understandings and
declarations, there are no constitutional
or other legal obstacles to United States
ratification. The reports of the Depart-
ment of State on these four treaties de-
scribe their provisions and set forth the
recommended reservations, understand-
ings and declarations.
suant to Article 14 of the Covenant. By
that declaration the United States would
recognize the competence of the Human
Rights Committee established by Article
28 to receive and consider "communica-
tions to the effect that a State Party
claims that another State Party is not
fulfilling its obligations under the
Covenant."
Should the Senate give its advice and
consent to ratification of the American
Convention on Human Rights, I intend
upon deposit of United States ratification
to make a declaration pursuant to Article
45 of the Convention. By that declaration
the United States would recognize the
competence of the Inter-American Com-
mission on Human Rights established by
Article 33 to receive and examine "com-
munications in which a State Party alleges
that another State Party has committed
a violation of a human right set forth in
this Convention."
By giving its advice and consent to
ratification of these treaties, the Senate
will confirm our country's traditional
commitment to the promotion and pro-
tection of human rights at home and
abroad. I recommend that the Senate
Should the Senate give its advice and
consent to ratification of the Convention give prompt consideration to the treaties
on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, I would then have the
right to decide whether to make a declara-
tion, pursuant to Article 14 of the Con-
vention, recognizing the competence of
the Committee on the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination to receive and con-
sider communications from individuals.
Such a declaration would be submitted to
the Senate for its advice and consent to
ratification.
Should the Senate give its advice and
consent to ratification of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, I
intend upon deposit of United States
ratification to make a declaration, pur-
and advice and consent
ratification.
The White House,
February 23, 1978.
to their
JIMMY CARTER
Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation
Remarks at the Swearing In of Judge
William H. Webster. February 23, 1978
Vice President Mondale and Chief Jus-
tice Burger, Senator Eastland, Congress-
man Rodino, Senators and Congressmen
396
