Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 11
THE PRESIDENT. My hope is that the
postal reform bill as presently drafted will
not get out of the Rules Committee and,
if it does, that it won't pass.
Q. Mr. President, do you suggest that
perhaps is there any way that we as an
association or as community publishers,
since it's so important to us, can urge our
association or the sponsors to modify that
bill in any way?
The President. It's a very complicated
bill and far-reaching in its impact. It
would have a very adverse effect on the
Federal budget. I think that in general
I don't mean conclusively-but in gen-
eral, the Congress and the President
and the President
ought to stay out of the administration of
the Post Office itself.
My own concern, among others, is that
if the bill is approved and another $12
or $2 billion is allocated to the Post
Office, that this might be an encourage-
ment to channel that money not into bet-
ter services, necessarily, but into imme-
diate, additional increases in salaries for
the postal employees.
They already receive a higher level of
pay than the average Federal employee.
And as you know, this has to be nego-
tiated according to standard manage-
ment-labor contract terms. Those are
some of the concerns that I have.
My guess is that the majority of the
Members of Congress agree with the posi-
tion that I've outlined to you.
SCHOOL DESEGREGATION
Q. Mr. President, HEW has expressed
displeasure with integration of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina school system
in addition to, perhaps, Virginia. And
HEW has also said it's going to monitor
other States, including my State of South
Carolina.
They're using the stick approach of
threatening to cut off, perhaps, new Fed-
eral funds to the universities who don't
desegregate and shuffle programs from
mostly white schools to mostly black
schools.
Do you think it proper for HEW to get
into the curriculum program of the uni-
versities of, say, North Carolina, and take
this approach?
THE PRESIDENT. As I'm sure you know,
HEW got into the question because of a
direct order from the Federal courts to
ensure two primary things. One is a
proper acceptance of black students in the
predominantly white colleges and vice
versa, so that there wouldn't be a 95- or
96-percent black or white student body.
And the second thing is to ensure that
the State legislatures and State boards of
regents in the predominantly black col-
leges didn't give them a lower level of
physical and educational service as con-
trasted with the white colleges.
I don't think anybody could argue with
those two basic principles. I think that, as
you describe it, the punitive aspect of the
HEW decision is quite modest. In other
words, there won't be any massive with-
holding of Federal funds that would hurt
all the students in a university system or
even a single college.
But funds will only be withheld if the
States are adamant against complying
with the Federal court ruling. And in those
cases, the funds would be withheld only
for specific, narrowly defined programs
that relate to the nonsegregation act.
So, I think that Joe Califano has done a
very good job in dealing with that diffi-
cult question. As you know, so far as I
know, South Carolina and Arkansas, Ala-
bama, Mississippi, Florida have all done
quite well. The States, I understand from
Secretary Califano as being a problem, ar
Georgia, North Carolina, and Virginia.
Q. HEW just told us the other day that
in the next year or so they intend to look
309
