Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
The countries that I will visit exemplify
the profound changes that are taking
place and the growing importance of our
relations with new leaders of the develop-
ing world. In Venezuela, in Brazil, in Ni-
geria, in Liberia we will attempt to
strengthen friendships to share mutual in-
terests and mutual opportunities and to
learn from the leaders of these very in-
fluential nations.
By the end of this century, 80 percent
of all the world's people will live in Latin
America, Asia, and Africa. Rapidly de-
veloping countries such as the four that
I will visit will play a larger and larger
part in our own lives here in the United
States. And in determining our shared
human fate in this world of change, we
will maintain our greatness only if we are
able to change, while remaining true to
the principles that have made our Nation
strong.
I set out on this journey to explain our
own American values proudly and clearly
to our friends and to understand their
opinions and their concerns. My great-
est ambition will be to represent the
people of my Nation truly and well. And
that ambition, if realized, will ensure the
success of my mission.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:35 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. Follow-
ing the remarks, the Presidential party pro-
ceeded to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., where
they departed for Venezuela.
the Office of Telecommunications Policy.
While reducing the size of the Executive
Office, this reorganization will enhance
the administration's ability to exercise
leadership in communications policy.
Advances in communications are hav-
ing a tremendous effect on the way people
live. Developments in computers, satel-
lites, electronic funds transfers, electronic
mail, mobile radios, and cable TV will
change many aspects of our daily lives.
These changes pose important choices for
our country.
The Office of Telecommunications
Policy was never equipped to play a
strong role in this debate. Now, for the
first time, communications policy will be
handled at the Cabinet level.
The Commerce Department will take
the lead in conducting research, develop-
ing policy proposals, and representing the
administration before Congress and the
Federal Communications Commission.
Commerce will also assign frequencies for
the Federal Government's radio stations.
Some functions have been kept in the
Executive Office because they could not be
performed effectively in a line agency.
The Office of Management and Budget
will set policy for procurement and man-
agement of the Government's telecom-
munications systems and will decide ap-
peals from Commerce's frequency assign-
ments. The National Security Council
and the Office of Science and Technology
Policy will handle certain national secu-
The remarks were broadcast live on radio rity and emergency preparedness policy
and television.
Telecommunications Functions
Statement on Signing Executive Order 12046.
March 28, 1978
I have signed an Executive order to
implement the portion of my Executive
Office reorganization plan that abolishes
functions. The Domestic Policy Staff will
keep me informed on communications
developments.
I am pleased to have nominated a tal-
ented expert, Henry Geller, to handle
Commerce's responsibilities. He will hold
the new position of Assistant Secretary for
Communications and Information.
NOTE: The text of Executive Order 12046 is
printed on page 598 of this volume.
611
