Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
some time, and new findings develop only
slowly and infrequently. All of the in-
formation contained in this report is
available to Congress during annual ap-
propriations and oversight hearings, and
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare will inform Congress im-
mediately of any scientific breakthroughs
in the field.
The White House,
March 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 69-page report is entitled "The
Federal Coal Mine Health Program in 1975—
Sixth Annual Report of Health Activities
Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969."
Federal Advisory Committees
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 27, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
Section 6(c) of the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, I am transmitting the
sixth annual report on the status of Ad-
visory Committees.
This report reflects the results of the
1977 government-wide, zero-base review
that I directed be conducted of all ad-
visory committees:
-The total number of committees was
reduced to 875 from 1,159 at the end of
1976.
-While some new committees were es-
tablished during the year, some 333 com-
mittees were terminated, and the number
was reduced further by 81 as the result
of the consolidation of existing commit-
tees.
While we recognize the contributions
that advisory committees can make, we
will continue our efforts to assure,
through careful management and review,
that such committees are terminated
when they no longer are necessary, and
that new committees are established only
when they are essential to meet the re-
sponsibilities of the Government.
The White House,
March 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Federal Advi-
sory Committees-Sixth Annual Report of the
President Covering the Calendar Year 1977-
March 1978" (Government Printing Office,
182 pages).
National Urban Policy
Remarks Announcing the Policy.
March 27, 1978
Contrary to any previous reports, the
urban policy has come through strong and
unscathed. And I come this afternoon to
address not recipients of the urban policy,
but those of you who participated so
deeply and sincerely and effectively in the
evolution of it.
Twenty-one months ago in Milwaukee,
I pledged to the United States Conference
of Mayors that if I became President, the
cities of our country would have a friend,
an ally, and a partner in the White House.
Today I want to affirm that friendship,
to cement that alliance, and to give form
and substance to that partnership.
I'm convinced that it is in our national
interest not only to save our cities and
urban communities but also to strengthen
them and to make them more attractive
places in which to live and to work.
The policy that is embodied in the mes-
sage that I'm sending to Congress today
is designed to marshal the immense re-
sources of America in a long-term com-
mitment to pursue that goal. It is a com-
prehensive policy, aimed both at making
our cities healthier and at improving the
lives of the people who live in them.
577
