Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in that office in addition to Mr. Marston,
I understand. And they will continue any
investigation that's underway.
I did not know until yesterday that any
Member of Congress was being investi-
gated by Mr. Marston. It's just one of
those things that was of high interest in
Philadelphia that had not come to my
attention until I encountered it yesterday,
you know, with the press conference.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. But I think you can
be assured that it will be a good appoint-
ment. And I think, without derogating
Mr. Marston at all-which I don't have
the inclination to do I hope and expect
that it will be well received in Philadel-
phia.
Let me thank you again. I've had a
chance to meet with editorial groups like
yourselves, I think, every 2 weeks since
I've been here. It's a kind of an unprece-
dented thing, but it helps me more than it
does you, just to learn what your interests
are particularly from around the Nation.
Hubert H. Humphrey
Statement on the Death of the Senator From
Minnesota. January 14, 1978
From time to time, our Nation is
blessed by the presence of men and women
who bear the mark of greatness, who help
us see a better vision of what we can be-
come. Hubert Humphrey was such a man.
For 30 years, his voice was heard from
one end of this country to the other—
most often in defense of the oppressed,
the hungry, the victims of poverty and
discrimination. All of us will miss that
voice.
It was as familiar to Americans as the
voice of a member of the family. And, in
a sense, Hubert Humphrey was a mem-
ber of every family in America.
Hubert Humphrey was a fundamentally
happy man—a man who really did love
his fellow human beings. In victory and
in defeat, he set an example of generosity,
sincerity, and hope.
The only thing more courageous than
the way in which he led his life was the
The White House press corps is a highly manner in which he left it.
professional group, I guess among the best
newspeople in the world. But they, like I
do, live right here in Washington. And I
get a much more widely ranging series of
questions from you than I do from them.
And I thank you for being willing to come
to Washington to meet with us. I know
you've met with several of the people on
the White House staff this morning, in-
In our laws and institutions, his me-
morials will endure. The most lasting of
them will be in our hearts.
Rosalynn and I extend our deepest
sympathy to Muriel Humphrey and her
family.
cluding Dr. Brzezinski. I'm sure you got a Hubert H. Humphrey
good response from them as well.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:30 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on January 14.
Remarks at Memorial Services at the Capitol.
January 15, 1978
At critical times in our history, the
United States has been blessed by great
78
