Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 27
us its commitments to use our exports only
at the Tarapur Atomic Power Station and
not for any explosive or military purpose,
and I have the highest confidence that it
will honor these commitments. I am con-
vinced that denial of this export would
seriously undermine our efforts to per-
suade India to accept full-scope safe-
guards, and would seriously prejudice the
achievement of other U.S. non-prolifera-
tion goals. I intend to pursue these matters
further with the Government of India.
A period in which to seek agreement to
full-scope safeguards was clearly provided
for in the Act. The Act permits a con-
tinuation of exports during this period, in-
cluding exports in cases where there are
questions as to whether and when that ob-
jective may be achieved. Rather than
prejudice the prospects for success in such
efforts by refusing to fulfill an existing
commitment that is important to India's
power supply, we should be using this
riod to find, in the light of the new leg-
islation's requirements, mutually accepta-
ble ways of meeting both India's need for
continued operation of the Tarapur
Atomic Power Station and our need for
full-scope safeguards and the attainment
of other non-proliferation objectives.
pe-
In transmitting this Executive Order
to you pursuant to Section 126b (2) of
the Act, I wish to make clear that I am
not departing from the reservations I ex-
pressed at the time I signed the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 concern-
ing the constitutionality of provisions of
that Act which purport to allow Congress
to overturn my decisions by actions not
subject to my veto power.
The White House,
April 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Export of Special Nuclear
Material to India
Executive Order 12055. April 27, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution of the
United States of America and by Section
126b (2) of the Atomic Energy Act of
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2155), as amended by
Section 304(a) of the Nuclear Non-Pro-
liferation Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
242, 92 Stat. 131), and having determined
that withholding the export proposed pur-
suant to Nuclear Regulatory Commission
export license application XSNM-1060
would be seriously prejudicial to the
achievement of the United States non-
proliferation objectives, that export to
India is authorized; however, such export
shall not occur for a period of 60 days as
defined by Section 130g of the Atomic En-
ergy Act of 1954, as amended.
The White House,
April 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:42 a.m., April 27, 1978]
President's Commission on
Mental Health
Remarks on Receiving the Commission's
Final Report. April 27, 1978
Rosalynn mentioned that last February,
when we established the Commission, that
I didn't authorize much time nor money.
She pointed out in February how difficult
it would be to bring together the widely
and disparate groups who have always
been interested in mental illness of all
kinds and get a report completed in this
short a period of not much more than a
year. I told her that all she had to worry
about was getting a mental health report
791
