May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ALONZO A. CRIM, of Atlanta, superintendent
of the Atlanta public schools, adjunct profes-
sor at the University of Georgia and Atlanta
University, and educational consultant;
BETSY LEVIN, of Chapel Hill, N.C., professor
of law at Duke University and specialist in
legal aspects of education and educational
finance;
CARL H. PFORZHEIMER, JR., of Purchase, N.Y.,
senior partner in Carl H. Pforzheimer & Co.,
in New York City, and vice chancellor of the
New York State Board of Regents;
CATHERINE STIMPSON, of Bellingham, Wash.,
a schoolteacher and member of the board
of trustees of Whatcom Community College;
WILSON C. RILES, of Sacramento, Calif., su-
perintendent of public instruction for the
State of California.
Middle East Arms Sales
Letter to Members of Congress. May 12, 1978
The motion in the Senate next Monday
to block all of the proposed aircraft sales
to Israel, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia pre-
sents a vital test of our national purpose.
In the hours before the Senate votes, it
is my duty as President to draw attention
to the powerful reasons supporting each
of the sales and the dire consequences of
rejecting them.
Our basic goal is to secure peace, sta-
bility, and harmonious relations among
the nations of the Middle East. Since be-
coming President, I and my chief foreign
policy advisers have spent more of our
time and effort on this subject than any
other foreign policy issue.
The number of aircraft proposed for
each of the countries has been carefully
considered to insure a regional balance,
but the decision before the Senate tran-
scends the particular transactions.
The choice is stark and fundamental.
Shall we support and give confidence to
those in the Middle East who work for
moderation and peace? Or shall we turn
them aside, shattering their confidence in
us and serving the cause of radicalism?
It is my considered judgment that the
aircraft sales to Egypt are essential to
enable President Sadat to continue his
efforts for peace. At great personal and
political risk, President Sadat has taken
an initiative which has created the best
prospects for peace in the Middle East in
three decades. With similar risks, he has
turned away from a relationship with the
Soviet Union and placed his trust in the
United States.
To reject the proposed aircraft sale to
Egypt would be a breach of that trust.
Such a rejection would be a devastating
blow to President Sadat, to the military
forces of Egypt, to the people of Egypt,
and to the forces of moderation in the
Middle East.
Saudi Arabia has become a firm friend
of the United States. As its influence
dramatically expands in the world, Saudi
Arabia has been not only a firm sup-
porter of the peace process but a moderat-
ing and conciliatory force on a wide range
of global issues.
It is beyond challenge that the Saudi
air defense system must be modernized
and augmented. The United States has an
opportunity through these proposed sales
to enhance its relationship with the
Saudis as they take these vital steps to de-
fend themselves against their radical
neighbors armed by the Soviet Union. But
I must tell you with great gravity that it
is an opportunity that we will quickly lose
if we do not grasp it immediately.
If the Saudis are forced to turn else-
where to meet their defense needs, it will
unquestionably impair the peace process.
Moreover, the erosion of confidence will
inevitably have a far broader—and ad-
verse-impact on the wide range of issues
on which we have been working in close
harmony.
896
