Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 3
our economy becomes more and more at
the mercy of a foreign cartel.
We must begin the long, slow job of
winning back our economic independence.
Nobody can embargo sunlight. No cartel
controls the Sun. Its energy will not run
out. It will not pollute the air; it will not
poison our waters. It's free from stench
and smog. The Sun's power needs only to
be collected, stored, and used.
We know that most of the technology
for using the Sun's power already exists.
And in my youth, as in many of yours,
there were millions of windmills around
the rural areas of our country. Hundreds
of small damsites provided electric power.
Some 10,000 years ago, in your area, In-
dians were using solar principles to heat
dwellings at Mesa Verde and elsewhere.
The historically brief availability of
low-cost energy from fossil fuels drove
much of that early solar technology into
temporary disuse, but now we are rebuild-
ing on those earlier techniques.
The Anasazi Long House at Mesa
Verde has fallen into ruins, but present
day Coloradans have built perhaps as
many as a thousand solar-heated homes,
including the largest (solar-heated) ยน
building in the United States, the North
Campus of Denver Community College.
Larger and more efficient windmills are
being designed, including one with a rotor
as long as a football field. Damsites long
abandoned in New England and else-
where are being returned to use with im-
proved equipment for generating electric
power.
Government, private industry are work-
ing together and separately to develop
dramatic new techniques, as well. Acres
of mirrors can focus the Sun on "power
towers" which will generate steam for
electricity and for other use. Both gas and
liquid fuel can be produced from animal
ยน Printed in the transcript.
wastes, wood chips, even garbage. Small,
sun-powered engines are already in use
for irrigation. Photovoltaic cells convert
sunlight directly into electricity.
The question is no longer whether solar
energy works. We know it works. The only
question is how to cut costs so that solar
power can be used more widely and so
that it will set a cap on rising oil prices.
In many places, solar heating is as eco-
nomical today as power from nonrenew-
able sources. And solar energy will become
ever more competitive as the prices of
energy from traditional sources rise and
the enormous Federal subsidies for oil and
other energy uses drop.
The cost of generating power from the
Sun is going down even as the cost of oil
is rising. The price of photovoltaic cells,
for example, has gone down 50-fold since
they first began to be used extensively in
the space program.
The Government will speed this pro-
gram by increasing demand for solar
hardware, so that mass production can
help to bring prices down. And the plan
will increase use of residential solar sys-
tems by offering more than a billion dol-
lars in tax credits over the next 7 years.
Credits of as much as $2,000 to each
one of you, each homeowner, to install
solar or wind energy systems will be avail-
able under the new comprehensive energy
plan. I hope that homeowners will soon
be able to take advantage of this major
incentive to use solar technologies.
The plan will also make it easier to get
loans for solar equipment, and we will
further increase demand for solar tech-
nology by providing up to $100 million
over 3 years to install solar equipment in
Federal buildings. I intend to put in a
demonstration solar hot-water system at
the White House.
I'm going to abbreviate my speech if
you have no particular objection, but
825
