Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
adequate energy program will be passed,
and if so, could you please explain why?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I believe that an
adequate energy program will be passed.
I've described earlier the difficulty of it
and the intense lobbying that is going on
constantly on Capitol Hill.
The oil companies have enjoyed a posi-
tion of privilege in our country for too
long. We've not had a fair distribution of
natural gas or oil throughout our country.
There have been wide variations in price,
which prevents the natural gas companies
from wanting to send that fuel to New
England. Your fuel costs in this region are
about 45 percent higher, on the average,
than the rest of the country. And if, for in-
stance, a large conglomerate corporation
has 10 different factories and they have a
drop-off in sales of, say, 10 percent, and
they have to close down one of those fac-
tories, and all other things are equal as far
as competence of labor and wage rates
and so forth, but energy costs are 45 per-
cent higher, then you labor at a dis-
advantage in trying to keep the job op-
portunities here in your region of the
country.
There's another problem in that we
have not adequately addressed research
and development and a spreading of our
use of energy to other sources that are
more plentiful or even renewable. That's
got to change.
I think we're becoming more and more
aware that our whole economy is damp-
ened because we import now, last year,
$45 billion worth of oil from overseas. It
makes us vulnerable to interruption of
those sources.
We need to emphasize conservation, to
start building and repairing homes, to get
more savings in the rapidly increasing
price and cost of energy.
So, in research and development, in-
creasing production of oil and gas and
coal in our own country, fairer distribu-
tions, more equitable cost or prices, the
increase in the security of our country by
reducing the threat of interruptions of
supplies all those things combined to-
gether are part of our energy package.
And the need is so urgent that I sincerely
believe that the Congress will successfully
resolve this issue. And those are the rea-
sons that I believe so.
But in the confusion with television ad-
vertisements and so forth, quite often
American people don't get aroused to de-
mand from their Members of Congress
that they take immediate action. In the
meantime, the oil companies and others
are aroused and their lobbyists are work-
ing day and night. And quite often, a
doubtful Member of Congress only hears
one side of the question.
So, I hope that you and all your friends
will let your Members of Congress know
how important this is. The Democratic
Congressmen and Senators have been
very helpful in areas that don't produce
oil and natural gas. Some of them even in
the oil-producing States are now seeing
the need and the advisability in the long
run to pass an energy package. So, I just
hope that we can get this done before we
have crises that really hurt us to demon-
strate how serious the need is. So, those
are the reasons that I think an energy bill
ought to be passed. Those are also the
same reasons that I think the Congress
will pass one.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Carol
Ann.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dean
Eggert. I represent Lebanon High School
and live in the city of Lebanon. Do you
feel that the recently proposed changes
and amendments to the suggested Pan-
377
