Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
Q. We are desirous, however, our
black-oriented publications have an op-
portunity to ask our President a question.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that's a good
idea.
Q. Thank you, sir.
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
Q. Mr. President, I think you should
know there are 13 members of the Na-
tional Association of Black Journalists
here, and we took a poll last night of what
we consider the most critical issue of crisis
proportions facing the black people, and
almost unanimously it was unemploy-
ment. And I'm asking you, are you suffi-
ciently satisfied with the new version of
the Humphrey-Hawkins bill that you will
put all of your weight behind it, make it
a top priority?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am.
BAKKE CASE
Q. Mr. President, the corporate world
seems to be standing still, awaiting the
outcome of the Bakke case and as far as
their affirmative actions are concerned.
Are you doing anything at the White
House to deal with a favorable decision
in this particular case, in the Bakke case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, we
filed a brief that was prepared by the
Solicitor General, Mr. McCree, which I
think is compatible with what you would
have wanted. This is the White House po-
sition, because I personally approved the
brief. I am not a lawyer. And the Attor-
ney General filed it on behalf of me and
the entire administration.
This case is in the Supreme Court, and,
of course, it's a separation of powers. I
don't have anything to do with the Su-
preme Court except to file a position, and
then they rule on the ultimate case as far
as Mr. Bakke is concerned.
So, I would say that now that it's in the
hands of the Supreme Court and we have
filed our position, that there's nothing ad-
ditionally that we would do until after the
Supreme Court rules.
When Ms. Norton comes in a few min-
utes I think she's coming after me,
Eleanor Holmes Norton-I think she
could tell you in more specific terms what
the entire Federal Government agencies
are doing to ensure that we have equal
employment opportunities, which does
not just apply, by the way, to Federal em-
ployees. It applies to equal treatment and
fair treatment in the private sector as
well.
Under our reorganization plan, we'll
try to bring together those functions, con-
centrated much more greatly under Ms.
Norton. In the past, they've been spread
in Commerce and Labor and HEW and
other agencies. And so we're trying to
focus them more clearly so that we can
address them more effectively.
OHIO ENERGY EMERGENCY
Q. Back in Ohio, there's great fear from
the mass layoff that was talked about yes-
terday, and we were wondering if there
was any hope of the layoffs expected in
the next 2 or 3 days, some of them have
already started. So, we were wondering-
this really affects the black community,
and more for the babies, so we were won-
dering what, if anything, that we have to
hope for, or whether or not there's any-
thing that you can help in this area.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I've de-
clared Ohio not only a disaster area, to
give help in matters of transporting en-
ergy materials, coal and oil and natural
gas, but we've offered the services of the
Federal agencies to help with the mainte-
nance of law and order.
We've tried to bring the negotiators
back to the table. And in addition, Ohio
322
