Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 17
collection. And I believe I speak for all the
Armenians present to extend to you our
appreciation and thanks for inviting us
today, and we're looking forward to
coming back over the next 7 years. Thank
you.
MRS. CARTER. I want to thank you, too,
for these paintings. One of the things that
we need in the White House is a good
collection of American paintings. And I
really appreciate this contribution. And I
want to welcome all of you here today.
It's just a great pleasure for us to have you
here with us.
THE PRESIDENT. One of the things that
we enjoy here in the White House is hav-
ing come to visit our Nation, world
leaders, kings, and prime ministers, chan-
cellors, presidents. One of our most im-
portant visitors was Chancellor Schmidt
from Germany. And when he came, we
wanted to be sure, as one of our chief
allies in preserving world peace, that we
had the best entertainment that was avail-
able in our country, and we had Lili
Chookasian to sing for us that night. It
was a wonderful evening. And she hon-
ored us by being here. And this afternoon
it's, I know, with a warm sense of com-
mon appreciation that you and I now
welcome Lili to sing for us again.
MS. CHOOKASIAN. May I say, Mr.
President and Mrs. Carter, that it's in-
deed my pleasure. It's just unbelievable
to be back here within a year. And my
pianist is going to be Mr. Shahan Asranee.
The first number I'm going to sing is
called "Siranitzar," which is translated
"Apricot Tree." The lover is begging
the apricot tree not to bear any fruit be-
cause his sweetheart has left him, and his
sorrow is as deep as the deepest ocean.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:33 p.m. at
the reception held for Armenian American
leaders of business, labor, educational, civic,
and religious organizations in the East Room
at the White House.
Visit of President Kenneth D.
Kaunda of Zambia
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
May 17, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. It's a great honor for
me as President of the United States to
welcome to our country a great man and
a friend, Kenneth Kaunda, the President
of Zambia.
The last time he was here was 3 years
ago. His wife, Betty, was with him. And
they captured the hearts of Americans by
an impromptu musical performance that
was brought back to my own memory by
his singing of the words of the national
anthem, a few minutes ago, of his fine
country.
Since that visit, in 3 years, a lot has
happened. Momentous changes have oc-
curred and are presently taking place in
the southern part of Africa.
His neighbors are standing in admira-
tion of his leadership and using the ex-
ample set by this great man as a vision
of what might be accomplished in the
countries still in turmoil, where human
rights have not been achieved, and where
many black people are deprived of the
right to vote, to participate in the shaping
of their own government's policy, their
own destiny, and are also deprived of the
right of equality of opportunity and life.
President Kaunda is a deeply religious
man. And the principles of his Christian
beliefs have shaped his private and his
public life. He's an idealist. He's a man
of great integrity which has never been
questioned. He's a man who has provided,
among the frontline state leaders, a con-
stant vision or perception of what might
be in his neighboring state of Zimbabwe,
or Rhodesia. He's a good partner for us.
I think it's accurate to say that our
hopes for a future life in Rhodesia is the
same as his. We want to see a community
917
