Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 23
tunity enforcement. With these new re-
sponsibilities, the EEOC can give coher-
ence and direction to the government's ef-
forts by developing strong uniform en-
forcement standards to apply throughout
the government: standardized data col-
lection procedures, joint training pro-
grams, programs to ensure the sharing of
enforcement related data among agencies,
and methods and priorities for complaint
and compliance reviews. Such direction
has been absent in the Equal Employment
Opportunity Coordinating Council.
It should be stressed, however, that af-
fected agencies will be consulted before
EEOC takes any action. When the Plan
has been approved, I intend to issue an
Executive Order which will provide for
consultation, as well as a procedure for
reviewing major disputed issues within
the Executive Office of the President. The
Attorney General's responsibility to advise
the Executive Branch on legal issues will
also be preserved.
Transfer of the Civil Service Commis-
sion's equal employment opportunity re-
sponsibilities to EEOC is needed to ensure
that: (1) Federal employees have the
same rights and remedies as those in the
private sector and in State and local gov-
ernment; (2) Federal agencies meet the
same standards as are required of other
employers; and (3) potential conflicts
between an agency's equal employment
opportunity and personnel management
functions are minimized. The Federal
government must not fall below the stand-
ard of performance it expects of private
employers.
The Civil Service Commission has in
the past been lethargic in enforcing fair
employment requirements within the Fed-
eral government. While the Chairman
and other Commissioners I have ap-
pointed have already demonstrated their
personal commitment to expanding equal
employment opportunity, responsibility
for ensuring fair employment for Federal
employees should rest ultimately with the
EEOC.
We must ensure that the transfer in no
way undermines the important objectives
of the comprehensive civil service reor-
ganization which will be submitted to
Congress in the near future. When the
two plans take effect, I will direct the
EEOC and the CSC to coordinate their
procedures to prevent any duplication
and overlap.
The Equal Pay Act, now administered
by the Labor Department, prohibits em-
ployers from paying unequal wages based
on sex. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act,
which is enforced by EEOC, contains a
broader ban on sex discrimination. The
transfer of Equal Pay responsibility from
the Labor Department to the EEOC will
minimize overlap and centralize enforce-
ment of statutory prohibitions against sex
discrimination in employment.
The transfer will strengthen efforts to
combat sex discrimination. Such efforts
would be enhanced still further by passage
of the legislation pending before you,
which I support, that would prohibit em-
ployers from excluding women disabled
by pregnancy from participating in dis-
ability programs.
There is now virtually compete over-
lap in the employers, labor organizations,
and employment agencies covered by
Title VII and by the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act. This overlap is bur-
densome to employers and confusing to
victims of discrimination. The proposed
transfer of the age discrimination program
from the Labor Department to the EEOG
will eliminate the duplication.
The Plan I am proposing will not affect
the Attorney General's responsibility to
enforce Title VII against State or local
403
