Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
I ask Congress to join with me to end
these unwarranted subsidies and return
the revenue to the vast majority of our
taxpayers who want no more or less than
to pay their fair share.
The tax reforms and tax reductions
which I am proposing have been carefully
balanced to coordinate with our overall
economic and budgetary strategy. Large
tax reductions are premised on substantial
reforms.
I must, therefore, caution that fiscal
prudence will require significantly re-
duced tax cuts for low and middle-in-
come taxpayers if we cannot help finance
the reductions I have proposed through
enactment of these revenue-raising re-
forms. I am proposing a balanced tax
program, and I urge Congress to consider
these recommendations as an integrated
package.
TAX REDUCTION AND SIMPLIFICATION FOR
INDIVIDUALS
Over 94 percent of the net individual
tax relief will be provided to individuals
and families earning less than $30,000 per
year, and every income class up to $30,000
will bear a smaller share of the overall tax
burden than it does now. (See Table 4.)
Under my proposals, the typical family of
four that earns $15,000 a year will save
almost $260, a 19 percent tax reduction.
For most persons in the low and middle-
income brackets, there will be a sizeable
net reduction in combined income and
payroll taxes even after the scheduled
social security tax increases are taken into
account. (See Table 10.) Without this
cut in income taxes, the social security tax
increases would cause a reduction in the
take-home pay of American workers. With
this tax program, we will have restored the
integrity of the Social Security system-
returning that system to a sound financial
basis and assuring the stability of future
benefits for retired workers-without in-
creasing total taxes for most working peo-
Under this tax program, virtually all ple or causing a slowdown in our eco-
Americans will receive substantial tax re-
lief, principally through a simple, across-
the-board reduction in personal tax rates.
Lower withholding rates will be put into
effect October 1, 1978, and taxpayers will
experience an increase in take-home pay
and purchasing power as of that date.
The typical taxpayer in all income
classes up to $100,000 will pay lower taxes.
But the bulk of relief has been targeted to
low and middle-income taxpayers.
The $240 credit will be especially bene-
ficial for low and middle-income families.
It will remove millions of Americans at or
near the poverty level from the income
tax rolls. No longer will the tax savings for
dependents be worth more to high income
than low income families. Instead, the
credit will be worth just as much to the
moderate income blue-collar worker as to
the wealthy executive.
nomic recovery.
We must also act to ease the burdens
of tax return preparation and recordkeep-
ing. We have a tax system that requires
millions of individuals to compute their
own tax liability. The government relies
upon the good faith and conscientiousness
of our taxpayers to an extent unparalleled
in the rest of the world. But in order for
our system to remain successful, it must be
comprehensible to the average taxpayer.
Judged by this standard, the current
tax structure is seriously defective. Mil-
lions of honest and intelligent Americans
find themselves confused and frustrated
by its complexity. The cost of this com-
plexity is enormous in terms of hours and
dollars spent.
Accordingly, tax simplification has been
a goal of this Administration from the
outset. The tax return individuals will
file between now and April 15 has been
161
