Mar. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
from those who are assembled here that
this is a great day for our country.
Bill Miller is a man who has a broad
range of background and experience that
will be additionally valuable to our coun-
try in the months and years ahead. As a
businessman and industrialist, as one
who's intimately involved and an expert
on international trade, as someone who's
been deeply associated with the social
changes that have taken place in our
country-equal opportunity, civil rights,
the sacrificial work that he's done in pro-
viding job opportunities for young people,
for minority groups, for veterans-these
will all be tremendous assets that he will
bring to his new position as Chairman of
the Federal Reserve Board.
He's also become an expert on congres-
sional relations recently. [Laughter] I was
very envious when he was so overwhelm-
ingly approved with a voice vote, and no
apparent negative votes at all—much bet-
ter than the political victory I won a year
and a half or so ago. [Laughter]
I think all of you realize the tremendous
importance of the position that he will
occupy as Chairman of the Federal Re-
serve Board. I would say that as far as the
Nation's monetary policy and strength is
concerned, that perhaps second only to
the White House and all its influence, this
chairmanship will be the most influential
in shaping our Nation's economic strength
in the future.
There is, under our Constitution and
laws, a very good balance of responsibility
and authority between the White House,
the Congress, and the Federal Reserve.
There is a deeply cherished commitment
to independence. And under Chairman
Burns, this commitment was preserved,
and there was exemplified in the chair-
manship an absolute integrity, honesty,
competence, dedication, courage, which
enhanced our Nation's reputation
throughout all the other nations of the
world. And the people of the United
States, Mr. Chairman, owe you a deep
debt of gratitude and appreciation and
admiration, and I thank you personally.
Our new Chairman, Bill Miller, has a
precedent established for himself that will
be a challenge even to a man with his
superior qualifications and dedication.
And on behalf of the people of our Na-
tion, I congratulate Bill Miller, the mem-
bers of the Federal Reserve Board, and
the people who work here in Washington
with him and with me and with the Con-
gress.
We have had now a fourth year of eco-
nomic recovery. This past year was a good
one with the unemployment rate drop-
ping, the inflation rate holding steady, our
gross national product increasing, busi-
ness profits and personal income being up.
But we still have serious problems with
the strength of the dollar, with a con-
straint on the inflation rate, and pockets
of unemployment that cause all of us deep
concern.
I have complete confidence in William
Miller and would now like to ask Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court Warren
Burger to come give this fine man the oath
of office.
Mr. Chief Justice.
[At this point, the Chief Justice administered
the oath of office.]
MR. MILLER. President Carter, I know
I speak for my family and friends and as-
sociates in thanking you for having us here
in the White House for this occasion. It's
an important occasion for me and my
family, and I'm sure I speak for everyone
in expressing our appreciation.
The Federal Reserve is a unique Amer-
ican institution. It represents a solution to
central banking that's typically American,
where you blend the national responsibili-
482
