Jan. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I think we also put forward the image
of a nation that is strong and secure and
self-confident, but which doesn't have to
prove our strength by taking advantage
of other nations that are not so strong or
forceful or secure as are we.
The personal relationships that I
evolved between myself and the foreign
leaders was very gratifying.
I would say the most emotional day
was yesterday with the visit to Normandy
and the reception-
Q. That was beautiful.
THE PRESIDENT.of the people in
Bayeux and the response of the French
people along the streets of Paris and the
tremendous crush of people that showed
up last night at the Palais de Versailles.
It was a very deeply moving experience.
JODY POWELL. Let me interrupt for a
minute. Does anybody need a "shooter?"
THE PRESIDENT. Does anybody care
for a drink. That's the question.
MR. POWELL. Let the record show that
six reporters were offered a chance for a
drink, and they all turned it down.
[Laughter]
than I would ordinarily get in Washing-
ton. And generally I get up at either 5,
5:30, or 6 o'clock in the morning. I slept
later than I ordinarily did. Last night we
stayed up pretty late, about an hour later
than anticipated. Today was really the
first day I felt tired at all. And that was
at the NATO meeting.
I think that one of the major considera-
tions and you can keep this on the rec-
ord if you want to is how the rest of
the entourage, including the press, are
affected by the trip. I'm always taken
care of. When I get to the final place, 20
minutes after I make a major speech, I
can go to bed and sleep until the next
morning. You all have to file your stories
and get up and be ready for me to emerge
the following morning. I think that that
factor is one that we will consider in the
future.
Q. Do you think, sir, that there were a
couple of gaffes-I guess it's the word?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. There were.
Q. In the Polish translation, the open
mike in New Delhi-did that cause you
any problems in dealing with the leaders,
The President. That's news. [Laugh- or will it cause any permanent problem in
ter]
VIEWS ON THE TRIP
Q. At a couple of points you looked
sort of tired to us, but many of us were
completely exhausted. And what I'd like
to know is how you stood up physically
and how it affected you in the changing
time zones, whether or not in retrospect
you may feel that the itinerary was a little
too hectic and if in future foreign trips you
might tell your staff to go a little easier on
you when they plan a trip?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll be honest
with you. Today is the first day I've been
tired. The rest of the trip I felt quite
rested and relaxed and didn't feel hur-
ried. I actually got more sleep per night
relations with these countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, both were inad-
vertent, of course. Gierek, I thought,
made a very fine statement afterwards.
He said, "In Poland we don't criticize
women or translators." [Laughter] That
happened the first time I met Gierek,
and afterwards we had a very fine per-
sonal relationship. He never commented
on it except just to smile and say, "Well,
it was kind of ancient Polish and had a
Russian influence." But I don't think it
had any lasting effect.
And I have read the news reports of the
statements of the Indian leaders after we
left, and I think, perhaps, without trying
to be overly optimistic, that it kind of
helped me and Desai both. I was very
42
