May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
special occasions to a few of the most out-
standing employees, what we need most
is a civil service system that rewards good
performance every day, day in and day
out.
Today I want to congratulate these
people who personify the spirit of quality
performance that I and they are all deter-
mined to extend throughout our Govern-
ment. Congratulations to all of you.
You've made us very proud. You've served
our Government well, and these awards
are certainly deserved because of your
outstanding contributions.
ALAN K. CAMPBELL. The President will
make the awards individually.
First, from the Department of Interior,
Dr. Joseph M. Botbol and Roger W.
Bowen for development of a computer-
based system that facilitates handling and
analysis of mineral and energy research
information and has saved the Govern-
ment an estimated $1.5 million.
From the Department of the Treasury,
Yolanda H. Carrillo, for suggesting a
change in procedures for preparing cor-
rections to data in the Internal Revenue
Service ADP system that has resulted in
an estimated $184,000 savings during its
first year.
From the Department of Agriculture,
Dr. Ernest L. Corley, for outstanding
leadership in the reorganization within
the Agricultural Research Service and in
the design of an effective management
planning system.
From the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, Mr. Curtis R.
Helms and Mr. Thomas W. Winstead, for
exceptional engineering achievement in
redesigning the space shuttle external fuel
tank, resulting in less cost per flight, creat-
ing payload capability and total program
savings of $5.8 million.
From the Veterans Administration,
Mr. Jack B. Johnson, for suggesting a
change in the method of installing cash
registers supplied to the hospital canteen
service, which has saved the Government
$100,000.
From the Department of the Navy,
Mr. Thomas H. Mills, Mr. Milford
Rhodes, and Mr. Winfred Hodges for sug-
gesting a method for reclaiming fuel oil
which otherwise would have been un-
usable that saved the Government ap-
proximately $180,000.
And finally, from the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, Mr. L.
David Taylor, for outstanding manage-
ment and administrative initiatives which
significantly improved the Department's
services to the public and saved an esti-
mated $6 million.
The PRESIDENT. Well, I think you can
all see what the reasons are for the broad
smiles that have been up here this after-
noon and for the sense of partnership that
we feel in striving on a daily basis to
make our Government more effective and
more efficient and to provide those serv-
ices which the American people deserve
and which they expect of us.
I want to say that these are not persons
who are exceptional in that they share
high achievement and deep dedication
with many hundreds of thousands of fel-
low governmental workers, and this in-
spiration to them in being honored, I'm
sure, will encourage others to achieve just
as high a service to the American people.
I think that one of the most impressive
thoughts that have come to me since I've
been in the White House is how deeply
dedicated civil servants are, how they
want to do an even better job, and how
sometimes the bureaucratic obstacles
make it very difficult for them to do so.
But these 11 men and women have sur-
mounted those obstacles and have proven
themselves to be outstanding in every
respect.
952
