Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
National Health Resources Advisory us to show our kindness and goodwill
Committee. He replaces John Venable,
deceased.
L'Esperance, 45, is an associate profes-
sor of clinical ophthalmology at Columbia
University College of Physicians and Sur-
geons and an associate attending opthal-
mologist at Columbia-Presbyterian Med-
ical Center. He is president of the Oph-
thalmic Research Foundation and a gov-
of the American College of
Surgeons.
National Brotherhood Week,
February 19-25, 1978
Message of the President.
February 17, 1978
I have said on many occasions that gov-
ernment cannot solve all of the critical
problems we face. Our ability to sur-
mount these challenges of modern life
depends greatly on the selflessness, gener-
osity and resilience of our spirit as a
people.
In the earliest days of our history when
there was little organized government,
everything often depended on the willing-
ness of individuals to help each other, to
work together as brothers for the common
good. The observance of National
Brotherhood Week focuses on the value of
such personal commitment. It gives us a
chance to look with pride on a heritage
that was profoundly strengthened and
enriched by it, and it encourages us to
revitalize and expand it in our family,
community and national life today.
Be it the day-to-day plight of the poor,
the elderly, the sick or the disadvantaged;
be it an unexpected disaster or misfor-
tune-there are endless opportunities for
toward those in need.
Inspired by the courage, compassion
and unselfish perseverance of our fore-
bears, let us join with the National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews in making
this Brotherhood Week the rallying point
of a renewed commitment to accept freely
and fully our individual responsibilities
as members of a democratic society.
JIMMY CARTER
Department of Agriculture
Nomination of P. R. Smith To Be an Assistant
Secretary. February 17, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate P. R. "Bobby" Smith, of
Winder, Ga., to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Agriculture. His area of respon-
sibility would be market and consumer
affairs, and he would replace Robert
Meyer, resigned.
Smith was born February 25, 1925, in
Winder, Ga. He served in the U.S. Air
Force during World War II.
From 1948 to 1977, Smith was self-
employed as president and general man-
ager of Smith Farms, Smith Seed & Gin
Co., Smith Bonded Warehouse, and Pied-
mont Acid Delinting. He served as vice
president of the Georgia Farm Bureau
Federation, president of the Georgia
Seedsmen Association, and president of
the Southern Cotton Growers Association.
He was also on the board of regents of
the University Systems of Georgia.
Since 1977 Smith has been Special As-
sistant to the Secretary of Agriculture. He
serves on the Agriculture Department's
Agriculture and Energy Policy Group, on
the Peanut Task Force, and as Chairman
of the Tobacco Task Force.
326
