Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 10
also to the congressional investigating
committee.
I think that the best way to deal with
this sort of thing is to put a major portion
of the financing of congressional elections
in the public sector, as they already are
now in the Presidential elections, and re-
move the possibility of unwarranted in-
fluence on Members of Congress because
of heavy financial contributions. I think
the ethics legislation and the public
financing law that was proposed last
year—and was blocked, as you know, by
a Senate filibuster-is a step in the right
direction.
And I think citizen groups and others
who want the Congress to make decisions
based on the merits of an issue, and not
because they have some obligation to
someone who gave them financial con-
tributions in the past, would be a major
step in the right direction-one step, by
the way, that I support very strongly.
We have also pushed, as a carrying out
of a campaign commitment, very strong
legislation on revealing the activities of
lobbyists. Now the law is primarily hon-
ored in its breach. But I think the new
lobbying legislation that's making its way
through the Congress will be another step
in the right direction. I think public dis-
closure of the financial status of Members
of Congress is another step in the right
direction.
Those kinds of things to make sure
that the interreaction between both ex-
ecutive officers like myself and my sub-
ordinates and the Members of Congress
on the one hand, and lobbyists on the
other, or major contributors, is the best
way to prevent this happening in the
future.
LABOR LAW REFORM
Q. I am Mel Toadvine, Salisbury
Times, Salisbury, Maryland. Mr. Presi-
dent, what do you think your chances are
of getting your labor reform bill through
the Senate this year, and how much are
you willing to give in to get it through?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the chances
are good. As you know, the bill has very
strong support in the Congress. The
House passed it with a large majority.
The legislation is needed; it's very moder-
ate in its nature. I analyze every para-
graph or portion of the reform legisla-
tion from the point of view not only as
President but a small businessman who
would have been affected by it.
I think the primary thrust of the legis-
lation is just to make sure that the labor
relations act that was passed many years
ago can be enforced to expedite the res-
olution of employee-employer differences
by open and free elections-which is the
way the labor act now calls for, but which
is subverted by unwarranted delays—and
also to prevent the punishment of em-
ployees who might want to honor or to
carry out their legal prerogatives and
rights.
The law has some component parts
that have been opposed by some people.
I think the period of time during which
the elections have to be held is somewhat
flexible in the minds of the Senators.
There's been an amendment already in-
troduced, as you know, to exclude about,
I think, 78 percent of all the businesses
in the country, the very small businesses.
And perhaps there would be some other
amendments that the Senators would
offer. But I think that with those amend-
ments to be offered to remove the more
difficult political aspects of the bill, that
it will be passed, and its basic thrust and
substance will not be modified appre-
ciably.
Q. Do you believe the charge by
American business that it is a push to
unionize the Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think it's
a push to unionize the Nation.
1079
