June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
problems and to deepen the partnership
that this water policy review has begun.
Fourth and finally, to protect the en-
vironment, I'm requiring agencies to en-
force environmental statutes more effec-
tively, requiring agencies to fund environ-
mental mitigation plans at the same time
projects are being built, and seeking in-
creased State cooperation in protection of
in-stream flows and ground water re-
sources.
I want to work closely with the Con-
gress, with State and local governments,
and with the public to implement this
policy, to build needed water projects, to
avert water shortages in the future, and
to preserve our beautiful rivers and
streams for tomorrow's America.
And now, Secretary Cecil Andrus, who
has been instrumental in preparing this
report which is going to the Congress, will
be available to speak further and answer
any questions that you might have.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:02 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Sec-
retary of the Interior Andrus and Stuart E.
Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs and Policy, held a news confer-
ence on the policy.
Federal Water Policy
Message to the Congress. June 6, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today sending to Congress water
policy initiatives designed to:
-improve planning and efficient man-
agement of Federal water resource
programs to prevent waste and to
permit necessary water projects
which are cost-effective, safe and en-
vironmentally sound to move for-
ward expeditiously;
-provide a new, national emphasis on
water conservation;
-enhance Federal-State cooperation
and improved State water resources
planning; and
-increase attention to environmental
quality.
None of the initiatives would impose
any new federal regulatory program for
water management.
Last year, I directed the Water Re-
sources Council, the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and the Council on
Environmental Quality, under the chair-
manship of Secretary Cecil Andrus, to
make a comprehensive review of Federal
water policy and to recommend proposed
reforms.
This new water policy results from their
review, the study of water policy ordered
by the Congress in Section 80 of the Water
Resources Planning Act of 1974 and our
extensive consultations with members of
Congress, State, county, city and other
local officials and the public.
Water is an essential resource, and over
the years, the programs of the Bureau of
Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, the
Soil Conservation Service and the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority have helped per-
mit a dramatic improvement in American
agriculture, have provided irrigation wa-
ter essential to the development of the
West, and have developed community
flood protection, electric power, naviga-
tion and recreation
recreation throughout the
Nation.
I ordered this review of water policies
and programs because of my concern that
while Federal water resources programs
have been of great benefit to our Nation,
they are today plagued with problems
and inefficiencies. In the course of this
water policy review we found that:
-Twenty-five separate Federal agen-
cies spend more than $10 billion per year
1044
