Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 28
constitution are drafted with sufficient
clarity to avoid the type of litigation that
could preclude effective government. For
example, the elevation to constitutional
status of certain rights in Article II of the
proposed constitution could cause such a
result. Under our own system, many of
these same rights are provided for by stat-
ute, not by the Constitution itself.
Also, the amendment procedure con-
tained in Article XIV of the proposed
constitution does not provide for review
by the Congress, a requirement which
does pertain to the basic document. The
Congress may wish to consider the fric-
tion which could arise between Guam and
the Federal Government should the con-
stitution be amended in a way which
would conflict with United States law.
Accordingly, I have directed the At-
torney General and the Secretary of the
Interior to provide the appropriate com-
mittees of both Houses with such techni-
cal advice and assistance as may be re-
quired. Both Departments have con-
ducted thorough analyses of the proposed
constitution and can offer the Congress
additional information and recommended
changes in language should the Congress
choose to take any of the corrective ac-
tions prescribed in Section 5 of the Ena-
bling Act.
I trust these comments will be of use
to the Congress in its review.
The White House,
April 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
National Federation of
Democratic Women
Remarks at a White House Reception.
April 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much
for coming.
How many of you think we're going
think we're going
to have a tremendous Democratic victory
in 1978? [Applause] How many of you
helped us have a big Democratic victory
in 1976? [Applause] Thank you very, very
much.
Well, the National Federation of
Democratic Women has meant a lot to me
even before anyone knew I had any plans
to run for President. In May of 1974, I
made a speech in Omaha, Nebraska.
Was anyone here there? [Applause]
Very good. And a little bit after that,
three women drove all the way from Kan-
sas down to Atlanta to ask me if I would
run for President in 1976. And, as you
know, I took their advice. [Laughter] And
I've been taking the advice of Democratic
women both before and since, and your
advice turned out, at least for me and, I
think, the Nation, to be good.
Is Margaret Hobelman here, or Marie
Vickers, and Harriet [Terry]? Very good.
Well, I thank those three women and all
of you for being so vital to me in my own
campaign and to the country.
Let me say just a few things that are of
importance to you and to our country and
to me. I believe in the United States and
what it stands for, and I believe in the
Democratic Party and what it stands for.
For 8 years, as you know, in this house,
the White House, we didn't have a Demo-
cratic vision, we didn't have a Democratic
conviction, we didn't have Democratic
leadership and Democratic Party ideas.
But all that time, the essence of what our
Nation is, what it stands for, what the
Democratic Party is, what it stands for,
was living in the hearts and minds of a
majority of the American people and was
nurtured and kept alive by you and those
like you who never gave up hope for see-
ing our programs and our commitments
realized in this great country.
There are more than 200,000 women
listed as members of this organization.
About 40 States are represented here this
afternoon. And we have begun to put into
797
