Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the country and a storehouse of national
interest lands?
things, have made a few changes in them.
But we are trying to be fair about the
I'm sure you are aware of the debate setting aside of more than adequate op-
going on about that now.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you had several
questions that would take a long time
and would really tax my ability also.
[Laughter]
I did go to Alaska during my campaign.
It was when nobody knew who I was and
not much attention was paid to my visit.
[Laughter] I was there in June of
1975
Q. I know you were.
THE PRESIDENT. and went to a
reception on my behalf. I made a speech
and attended a major Democratic meet-
ing. I think it was on Senator Gravel's
birthday when I was there. So, I've visited
there. But I would like to come back.
I think the temporary, excessive sup-
plies of oil about which you are concerned
is a worldwide phenomenon. I just came
back from Venezuela and Nigeria. They
are both concerned about the fact that
their present oil sales are much less than
they were a year ago because of decreased
demand.
One of the reasons for that is that there
have been new sources of oil coming into
the world market-Alaska is obviously
a notable example-increasingly from
Mexico, the North Sea supplies. That's
a transient development, as you know.
And very quickly in our country, if
present trends continue, particularly en-
hanced by the fact that we want to reduce
imports from other nations, I think the
Alaskan oil supplies will be absorbed
eagerly by the rest of this continent.
We have proposed to the Congress now,
as you know, after months, years of very
careful deliberations, since and before I
became President, the allocation of lands
in Alaska in accordance with a congres-
sional mandate. I believe that Cecil An-
drus has done a very fine job. The com-
mittees have now considered part of those
portunities for economic investment and
development of Alaska and, at the same
time, preserve the precious portions of
Alaska, hopefully in perpetuity. There are
some other regions in between that will
be preserved for a limited period of time,
to be released for future development in
years to come by the Congress and my
successors in office.
I think that Alaska is obviously, you
know, cherished by the rest of the coun-
try. I think everybody is proud of the
frontier spirit that has exemplified Alas-
ka's rapid development. I think all of us
who are familiar with the political needs
have seen the shock that's come to Alas-
ka-maybe an over-anticipation of oil
revenues and now a dampened world
market that causes some concern; in-
creased transportation cost of your oil has
to be absorbed by you; the fires that have
occurred and the other damage to the
pipeline cause a temporary aberration.
On the west coast in particular, we do
have a problem. There is a question, as
you know, that has not yet been addressed
about the transfer of any oil from the
west coast to other markets. I'm reluc-
tant to inject this into the present con-
gressional deliberations. I think that
initiative really should come from the
Congress. We believe that the passing of
the energy legislation will help to provide
Alaska with a much more predictable fu-
ture, both in natural gas and in oil.
And we're trying, in the congressional
deliberations on natural gas pricing, the
incremental pricing in particular, not to
create any problem that would preclude
an orderly and rapid construction of the
natural gas pipeline.
It's such a complicated subject, I just
hit a few high points. I hope you will for-
give my not being more thorough.
716
