Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
are black or Hispanic, and only 6, about
1 percent, are women.
While the Federal bench in southern
California has become more representa-
tive, this is not true elsewhere in the Na-
tion. My Executive order on the Circuit
Court Nominating Commission specifi-
cally requires special efforts to identify
qualified minority and female candidates.
During too many of the struggles for
equal justice, just in the lifetimes of you
and me the questions of one-man, one-
vote, voting rights for blacks, representa-
tion for indigent clients, and others-
much of the organized bar sat on the side-
lines or actually opposed these efforts. In
today's struggle for women's rights, the
passage of the equal rights amendment
and the full participation of women and
minorities at all levels of our society, I
hope that lawyers throughout the country
will follow the actions that your bar asso-
ciation has already taken here in Los An-
geles County.
The third challenge is suggested by the
American Bar Association's theme for this
year: "Access to Justice." Too often, the
amount of justice that a person gets de-
pends on the amount of money that he or
she can pay. Access to justice must not de-
pend on economic status, and it must not
be thwarted by arbitrary procedural rules.
Overcoming these procedural barriers
means that groups with distinct interests
to defend-in civil rights, economic
questions, environmental causes, and so
forth—must be able to defend them fully.
We are supporting efforts to broaden the
use of class action and to expand the de-
finitions of standing to sue. My admin-
istration supports bills before Congress
that would empower citizens to partici-
pate in the proceedings of Federal agen-
cies a right that has too often been re-
served for the large and the powerful
corporations which have the legal re-
sources to express their view forcefully.
We must remove the economic barriers
to justice. When a poor family is cheated
by a merchant, unfairly threatened with
eviction, falsely accused of a crime, it
can very rarely take advantage of the
skilled legal talent at reasonable rates.
In the city of New York there are 35,-
000 lawyers-1 for every 200 citizens. But
only a handful of these lawyers are avail-
able for service to the city's 1 million
poor-1 lawyer for every 5,000 poor peo-
ple. That's why we have now expanded
the Legal Services Corporation. In fiscal
year 1979, its budget will be more than
twice as large as it was when my admin-
istration took office about a year ago.
But you know and I know that legal
help is often beyond the reach of most of
the middle-class Americans, as well. Here,
too, I believe that the bar has an obliga-
tion to accommodate those with modest
incomes. Free and open competition is the
best way to bring legal services within the
reach of average citizens. Another solu-
tion, which my administration supports,
is the expansion of prepaid legal plans,
legal clinics, and other low-cost alterna-
tives, such as those pioneered by the
United Automobile Workers. The Neigh-
borhood Justice Center near here in Ven-
ice and Marvista is a good example of
what we are trying to do.
I also ask that lawyers join the effort
to stop inflation by following the example
we've asked of every other group in our
society and to join in decelerating the rise
in legal fees. This morning, new infla-
tion figures were published in Washing-
ton that caused me grave concern. How
can we, the privileged members of Amer-
ican society, call upon the working peo-
ple, the men and women of our country,
to make a financial sacrifice to deal with
inflation unless attorneys, doctors, ac-
countants, other professionals, Presidents,
assume the same responsibility to assist in
our efforts to keep a lid on inflation?
839
