Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ama Canal Treaty are necessary, and if
so, would you please tell us why?
THE PRESIDENT. The Panama Canal
treaties have been under negotiation now
for more than 14 years. These treaties
were originally signed in the early part
of this century, between the United States
and a Frenchman who benefited greatly
from the treaties themselves.
No Panamanian ever saw that treaty
before it was signed, and no Panamanian
has ever signed the treaty either. We are
not ashamed of having signed that treaty
or built the canal. It's a source of great
pride to me, as President, to know that
American engineers were able to bring
the canal into being. It's been helpful to
our own country, to Panama, and to the
rest of the world.
Those people have known in Panama
that the terms of the treaty were not fair
to them. As a matter of fact, Theodore
Roosevelt, who was then the President,
Secretary Hay, who was Secretary of
State, said publicly, "These treaties are
highly favorable to the United States.
They are not favorable to Panama."
Over that whole 75-year period, the
Panamanian people have been expressing
their displeasure. And back 14 years ago,
when President Johnson was in office,
there were outbreaks of violence in Pan-
ama by dissident groups who wanted to
have control of their own territory and a
stronger voice in the operation of the
canal.
The canal is important to our country.
Our security, our economic well-being is
dependent upon a continued operation of
the Panama Canal that we can use. We
have never had sovereignty over the Pan-
ama Canal Zone itself. That has always
been under the sovereignty of Panama.
We've paid them rent on that zone every
year from the very beginning, beginning
with $250,000 and increasing as we've
gone on. This is an issue that I think is
very important. It's obviously of crucial
importance here in New Hampshire.
We have to get, as you know, a two-
thirds vote in the Senate. There is no po-
litical benefit to be derived by me or any
Member of the Senate in voting for the
canal treaties themselves.
I think the canal treaties negotiated
are good. I think they are better for our
own country [applause]. Thank you.
They're better for our own country.
They're better for Panama. They pre-
serve our permanent right to use the
canal. They preserve our permanent right
to defend the canal. They preserve our
permanent right to go to the head of the
line and use the canal expeditiously if our
warships need to do so.
And I hope and I believe that the Sen-
ate, in a great demonstration of patriot-
ism and courage, will ratify the Panama
Canal treaties.
Thank you. [Applause] That made my
trip worthwhile. Thank you.
PRESIDENT'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bruce
Prevost. I attend Hillsboro Deering High
School in Hillsboro. You've mentioned in
two previous questions your sincere beliefs
in the Bible and God. And in relation to
this-and in the Old Testament it men-
tions many times where God has called
the nation to repentance for their im-
moral actions and things they have done.
And I would like to know, do you feel
you are in a position to do this before the
American people and before God, and
would you do it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my own relig-
ious faith is one that's much more per-
sonal. I feel that we have a direct access
to God through prayer and that repen-
tance is a personal thing. I don't believe
that it's my responsibility to repent before
God for what our Nation has done in the
past or may do even while I'm in the
378
