Apr. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
lae Ceausescu, accompanied by Mrs.
Elena Ceausescu, paid a state visit to the
United States of America between April
12-17, 1978.
President Carter and President Ceau-
sescu conducted official talks on the cur-
rent state of relations between the United
States and Romania as well as on the pos-
sibilities for their further development.
They also had a broad exchange of views
on a series of major world problems of
common concern. The talks were held in
a cordial atmosphere of openness, esteem,
and mutual respect which reflects the
positive evolution in United States-
Romanian relations.
President Ceausescu met with mem-
bers of the House of Representatives and
the Senate. The talks showed that both
sides desire to contribute to the deepen-
ing of understanding and to the growth
of contacts between the American and
Romanian peoples.
President Ceausescu also met with
leading personalities in the business, fi-
nancial, scientific, engineering and cul-
tural life of the United States.
The two Presidents noted with satis-
faction that the relations between the two
countries have further developed and
broadened in the spirit of the principles
embodied in the Joint Declaration signed
in Washington, D.C., on December 5,
1973. They expressed their common de-
termination and interest to encourage and
promote the continuing expansion of ties
of cooperation and friendship between the
two countries and peoples.
In order to further develop and diver-
sify the relations between the two coun-
tries as well as to contribute to the
strengthening of international peace and
security, President Carter and President
Ceausescu signed a Joint Declaration.
The two Presidents expressed their satis-
faction at the results of their talks and
agreed to continue the bilateral dialogue
at the highest level as well as at other
levels and through diplomatic channels.
President Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena
Ceausescu also visited, in addition to
Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Dallas,
Houston, New Orleans and New York.
President Ceausescu and Mrs. Elena
Ceausescu expressed their cordial thanks
to President and Mrs. Carter for the
friendly and hospitable reception extend-
ed to them during their visit which is a
natural expression of the traditional
friendship and mutual respect between
the American and Romanian peoples.
President Nicolae Ceausescu and Mrs.
Elena Ceausescu invited President Jimmy
Carter and Mrs. Rosalynn Carter to pay
an official visit to the Socialist Republic of
Romania. The invitation was accepted
with pleasure.
Tax Reduction and Reform
Remarks Concerning Proposals Submitted to
the Congress. April 17, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
Today the congressional committee
began to mark up the tax reform pro-
posals that we submitted to the Con-
gress, and today also happens to be the
date, each year, when American people
have to pay their taxes for last year.
Many American citizens at this time
of the year wonder why in the world the
tax codes, the tax laws, are so compli-
cated and so unfair. We here in Wash-
ington don't hear clearly the voices of
those who are concerned, who are
cheated by the present tax laws, who
don't understand the complicated tax
codes, and who have been treated un-
fairly for many years.
All these people want, the average
American family, is a simple tax code
754
