Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
can learn and teach one another. There
is a growing participation of your people
in government, and I've never known a
more idealistic approach to the future in
government than the one that now is
being considered by your constitutional
body as you write a set of permanent laws
to guide your nation toward absolute, true
democracy very shortly in the months
ahead.
This will indeed be an inspiration to the
whole world. You've also had a common
experience with us of overthrowing colo-
nial rule, and even after that, as did we,
experiencing a very tragic civil war.
I doubt that there's been a case in
history when, after a deeply divisive war,
more immediate and successful attempts
were made to bind a nation back together
and to heal the wounds of that division.
And all the people in this room, and par-
ticularly the leaders of the military gov-
ernment, can be congratulated for the
recovery from your tragic war.
This is something that we've shared and
we know very well in the southern part of
the United States. I think your national
motto, ahead of me on your emblem,
"Unity and Faith," is a very fine, constant
reminder of what you have cherished in
the past, what you have in the present,
and what you will have in the future.
There's another thing that we share-
us with a newness and you, also, with a
newness of approach-and that is tre-
mendous international influence. You are
a powerful nation. You are a strong na-
tion. You're a large nation. And you have
a very influential nation.
I think the fairness and the benevolence
of your attitude is increasing on a daily
basis the confidence of other leaders of the
world in the Nigerian leaders. It's obvious
that in spite of your strength, your rela-
tive wealth, your military prowess and
force, and the size of your population, you
have nothing but a good attitude toward
your immediate neighbors and the other
countries of Africa.
And it's indeed a reassuring thing for
me, as a President of the United States, to
have a sense of partnership and an oppor-
tunity to have the counsel and advice
from the leaders of your great country.
We have discussed in the last 2 days some
of the most difficult areas of the world,
where peace and good will does not exist,
but where our influence, combined with
yours and others, might correct those de-
fects in the relationship among neighbor-
ing peoples.
We've discussed our talks with the So-
viet Union. We've discussed our efforts in
the Middle East to bring the Israelis and
the Arab countries and peoples together
for a permanent peaceful settlement.
We've talked about the Horn of Africa,
where you, again, are playing a leading
role. We've discussed Zimbabwe-as Gen-
eral Obasanjo has already described—our
efforts and the British efforts jointly,
working under the principles of interna-
tional law and the United Nations, guided
by the frontline Presidents, by General
Obasanjo and others, to do the right thing
in Africa, constantly being reminded of
the need for rapid action and learning
from you how that rapid action might be
ensured. This is very beneficial to us, to
you, to all the countries in Africa, indeed,
the world.
We've also learned a great deal about
the attitude of people in Namibia, your
closeness with SWAPO and its leaders,
our influence, along with other Western
nations, in inducing South Africa to deal
fairly with the people in Namibia under
the auspices of and in compliance with
United Nations resolutions. And our ab-
horrence of racial prejudice, discrimina-
tion, and apartheid has been demon-
strated again here, and our strength of
commitment against this blemish on
660
