Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 20
and where the same basic form of elec-
tions can be held as are held here and in
Great Britain.
We work with others who are inter-
ested in peace in Africa. The Saudi
Arabians have been very helpful in pro-
viding some nonmilitary aid when coun-
tries get in bad economic circumstances.
We are trying to help nations that have
a one-commodity export dependence,
like the Zambians with copper, and so
forth, to have a much more stable mar-
ket, better reserves.
So, in every possible way, on a peaceful
basis, we cooperate with nations in need
so they don't have to turn to the East,
to the Soviets and through their surro-
gates, the Cubans, for help.
We are watching with great interest
and concern now the degree of Soviet in-
volvement in the internal matter in Ethi-
opia concerning the Eritreans. The
Cubans, for instance, claim to be a non-
aligned country. It's obvious that they
are not nonaligned. They are the most
heavily dependent and subservient coun-
tries that the Soviet Union, which I am
aware of, certainly outside the Eastern
Bloc itself. And we point this out fre-
quently when we have visitors here from,
say, Romania, or from Yugoslavia. We
point out that military presence of the
Cubans in Africa is inimicable to peace-
ful progress and is an unwarranted in-
trusion.
So, through all these matters we try
to meet that challenge on a nonmilitary
basis. We have a limited ability to supply
defensive weapons to those countries,
under very tight constraint from laws that
control my actions, and we take advan-
tage of that. So, those are some of the
things we are doing, Bill, that I think are
adequate.
I might make one other point that I
made in Spokane the other day, and that
is that in the long run we have an advan-
tage, because I think we have a much
more natural affinity for and compatibil-
ity with the black people of Africa than
do the Soviets. They know that in the long
run their economic well-being, democratic
principles, basic human rights can be bet-
ter guaranteed through a relationship
with the Western democracies than with
the Eastern totalitarian countries. And in
many instances those leaders in Africa are
deeply religious people, and they have
some reluctance about affiliating them-
selves with the atheistic governments of
Cuba and the Soviet Union. Those are
some of the distinctions that are drawn
between us and them.
NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm from an oil- and
gas-producing county in Texas. I wonder
what the outlook is for the energy policy
and deregulation of natural gas?
THE PRESIDENT. I think at this point
it looks much better than it has in months.
We've seen the two committees, two con-
ference committees, the House and Sen-
ate, being almost exactly equally divided.
As you know, the Senate committee, when
it began to confer, was divided 9 to 9. And
the unfortunate death of one of the com-
mittee members is the only thing that
relieved the tie.
We've had the House committee con-
ferees recently divided, I think, 13 to 13.
And I know we've needed 13 votes to
prevail. We see a prospect of step-by-step
deregulation of natural gas at a rate of
the inflation plus 4 percent, to be com-
pleted in early 1985 with, I think, ade-
quate protection for consumers. And this
would round out the fourth major element
among the five in our comprehensive en-
ergy package. The one remaining, as I
said, would deal with oil pricing.
941
