Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 12
U.S. ATTORNEY MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, if I could pursue the
Marston question-
THE PRESIDENT. Please do.
Q. -one step further. There have
been reports that, first of all, Mr. Mars-
ton is in the midst of an investigation
which involves two Democratic Congress-
men from Pennsylvania. And there have
been reports that at least one of them has
sought to contact the White House or you
yourself to, in effect, get Mr. Marston off
their backs. I wonder if you are aware of
any such contacts or intents, however in-
formal, and what your reaction to such a
contact would be.
THE PRESIDENT. The only contact I've
had with any Congressmen directly was, I
think, Congressman Eilberg called me and
asked that we look into it. At that time,
the Attorney General had already decided
to make the change. When I talked to the
Attorney General about it, before Eilberg
had let his views be known on the tele-
phone call, he said that the replacement
would be made and that he hoped that
the Democratic Congress Members who
had shown an interest in it would not be
involved in trying to decide who would be
the replacement.
And this has been an assurance given
to us by Mr. Eilberg. As far as any inves-
tigation of Members of Congress, however,
I'm not familiar with that at all, and it
was never mentioned to me.
Q. Could you tell me, sir, what reason
Mr. Eilberg gave for asking you to look
into it? And what do you mean by "it"?
THE PRESIDENT. He wanted the re-
placement process to be expedited. The
decision had already been made to replace
Mr. Marston, and I think the Attorney
General can answer your question better
specifically. And my importunity to Mr.
Eilberg was that it would be better if the
Congress Members would let the Attorney
General make the selection on the basis of
merit alone. And that was Mr. Eilberg's
comment to me, that he had no interest
in who would be the replacement at all,
but he thought that because of the con-
fusion there that the decision that the At-
torney General had already made ought
to be expedited. And I feel the same way.
I have complete confidence that the re-
placement will be chosen on the basis of
merit and not politics.
TAX CUT
Q. Mr. President, with signs now that
the economy is improving, why should the
tax cut that your administration is pro-
posing be any larger than an amount
necessary to compensate for the increased
energy taxes and social security taxes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the tax proposal
that I intend to make to the Congress
will have an effective date of October 1.
We anticipate, if projections hold true,
that the first two quarters of 1978 will
show very good economic progress in the
growth rate, in the controlling of un-
employment and inflation. But we believe
that by the end of the third quarter,
October 1, there will be a need to sus-
tain the economic growth that we think
we'll experience.
We are not trying to deal with an econ-
omy that's tottering or on the verge of
collapse or in any danger. We have basi-
cally a very strong national economy.
The goal that we've set for ourselves
for 1978 is a 5-percent growth rate. We
were very fortunate in 1977 in reaching
the goals that we set for ourselves, both
in unemployment, as you know, and also
in the growth rate. But we believe that
a substantial tax reduction is needed for
that purpose.
There are two other reasons. One is
I want to reduce the portion of our gross
national product that is collected and
spent by the Federal Government. In my
59
