May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
braries and Information Science. They Visit of President Kaunda
of Zambia
are:
ROBERT W. BURNS, JR., assistant director of
libraries for research service at the Colorado
State University Libraries;
JOAN H. GROSS, of New York City, a former
member of the American Library Association
and advertising copywriter;
Toasts at the State Dinner. May 17, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Kaunda
and distinguished guests from Zambia, my
own American friends who are ashamed
CLARA S. JONES, director of the Detroit of their President because he can't per-
(Mich.) Public Library;
FRANCES H. NAFTALIN, president of the Min-
neapolis Public Library Board and a mem-
ber of the State Library Advisory Commis-
sion, and active in civic affairs;
HORACE E. TATE, executive secretary of the
Georgia Association of Educators and asso-
ciate professor of education at Fort Valley
State College, Fort Valley, Ga.
Federal National
Mortgage Association
Reappointment of Five Members of the
Board of Directors. May 17, 1978
The President today announced the re-
appointment of the five members of the
Board of Directors of the Federal Na-
tional Mortgage Association whom he ap-
pointed in May 1977. They are:
RAYMOND H. LAPIN, president and chairman
of the board of R. H. Lapin Co. of San
Francisco;
JOHN D. THOMPSON, president and treasurer
of the Washington, D.C.-based Vijon Realty
Co. and past president of the National Asso-
ciation of Realtors;
MARVIN S. GILMAN, executive vice president
of Leon N. Weiner & Associates, based in
Wilmington, Del., an associate professor at
the University of Delaware and active in the
National Association of Home Builders;
RUTH T. PROKOP, General Counsel of the De-
form as well as you—[laughter]:
We are delighted to have you all here
tonight to welcome to the White House a
great leader.
Many of you didn't recognize the lan-
guage of the
of the prayer that was given by our
guest. It was Presbyterian. [Laughter] His
father was a pastor, a minister in the
Church of Scotland. And I think that it's
obvious to all of us that our guest has very
deep feelings, not only about religion but
about humanity, about freedom, about
individuality, equality, democracy, self-
expression, the very same characteristics
of life that have made our own Nation
great and have made the nation of Zam-
bia great.
Living in this house is sometimes a
sobering experience, because you look
back over many years and see the leaders
who have been here. We revere George
Washington because he had such great
courage and tenacity and confidence in
his own people, that he was the father of
our country. And it's a very exciting thing
to know that we have, in effect, the
George Washington of Zambia here with
us tonight, a man who had the confidence
of his people and who enjoys a relation-
ship with the people of Zambia that's
mutually respectful and filled with con-
fidence.
partment of Housing and Urban Develop- spondence
ment;
JOHN HEIMANN, Comptroller of the Currency.
I've benefited already from my corre-
spondence with President Kaunda. I've
sought his advise because I know what
kind of man he is. I know the leadership
920
