Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment.
So, I'm concerned that there has not city government, and the State govern-
been a resolution of all of these major
confrontations and disputes. But we're
making good progress, and I'm not dis-
appointed at the progress that we have
made. I'm certainly not disappointed at
our willingness to tackle issues that have
historically been difficult to resolve.
NEW YORK CITY
Q. You mentioned your predecessors;
this question relates to one of them. It's
from Paul Healy of the New York News.
Mr. President, 2 years ago President
Ford said from this podium that there
would be no emergency Federal financial
aid to New York City, prompting the
famous Daily News headline, "Ford to
City: 'Drop Dead." " Yet President Ford
later supported a loan program to the
city that seems more generous than the
one outlined on Capitol Hill today by
Secretary Blumenthal. What is your re-
sponse to this?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, as
you know, the Congress moved well to
prevent bankruptcy of the New York City
government. We've had very close per-
sonal consultations with the mayor and
other city officials, the banks, the unions,
the Governor, and the congressional dele-
gation here in Washington.
Yesterday afternoon I talked to the
mayor, Mayor Koch, to the Governor,
Governor Carey, and to Senator Moyni-
han, yesterday and this morning to Secre-
tary of Treasury Mike Blumenthal. I
think the proposal that has been put for-
ward is basically adequate. It's obviously
not everything that the New York City
officials would want.
We believe in sharing the responsibility
between the Federal Government-with
the guaranteed loans-and those other
entities that I described, local lending
institutions, the unions' trust fund, the
This does provide a long-range guar-
antee of loans. It's not month by month
or even year by year. Secretary Blumen-
thal recommended a 15-year period dur-
ing which we would guarantee up to $2
billion in loans. I think it's a very rea-
sonable and also very adequate proposal,
and it's one that we are not presenting
to the Congress idly. We intend to fight
for it. And I know that there's a great
deal of concern in the Congress that this
might be a proposal that's too generous.
I think it's adequate, not overly generous,
and one that's worthy of our support.
And it will get our support.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Later this month you'll be meeting
with Prime Minister Menahem Begin
from Israel. Dick Ryan of the Detroit
News asks: What do you hope to achieve
during your meetings with the Prime
Minister?
The President. This will be my third
meeting with Prime Minister Begin since
he's been the leader of Israel. In addition,
I communicate with him fairly frequently
by personal letter, by diplomatic message,
and on occasion by telephone. And both
our own Secretary of State and other
officials and his secretary of state and
other officials come here frequently. De-
fense Minister Weizman will be here
shortly to consult with me and with the
Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State,
and others.
We are looking for some common
Israelis, the Jordanians, the residents of
ground on which the Egyptians, the
the West Bank and other areas can
agree.
This is a difficult and sensitive ques-
tion. As you know, the Gaza Strip has
had an affiliation in the past with Egypt,
the West Bank with Jordan, both now
440
