Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
equivocation, specifically state that there
would be no intervention in the internal
affairs of other nations in this hemisphere
or, in the case of the United Nations, in
the entire world. So, I don't see how the
DeConcini amendment, because of a
couple of words that might be interpreted
two or three ways, could be considered as
an intent of this Nation to intervene in the
internal affairs of Panama, contrary to
the three specific binding elements of the
international charters that we will have
upon us: the U.N. Charter, the OAS
charter, and the text of the treaty itself.
And I think that after the Senate gets
through with the treaties, a statement that
I've just made to you should be adequate
to alleviate any problem. And obviously,
I've just made to you should be adequate
DeConcini and to the other Members of
the Senate.
We're not trying in the Panama Canal
treaties to throw out the basic charter of
the international organizations in which
we participate.
Q. Could I follow that for a moment,
please?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Do you plan to do the same kind of
lobbying effort you did for the neutrality
treaty as for this one?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We consider the
ratification of the Panama Canal treaties
to be crucial to us, to our Nation's wel-
fare, benefit, future; our relationships
diplomatically, economically, militarily in
this hemisphere; and to prove that we be-
lieve what we preach in the area of
human rights, treating other nations as
equals. I think our own security interests
are adequately protected in the Panama
Canal treaties. So, they are that important
to us. And I would do anything that's
proper, within the limit of my power, to
secure ratification of both treaties.
FARM LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, in view of the plight
of the American farmer, do you feel that
maybe the American farmer is expecting
or asking for too much too fast?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
I'm not only concerned about the plight—
my background has been as a farmer;
every one of my ancestors for more than
almost 300 years in this country has been
farmers-I've worked on this problem as
much as I have any other single issue that
faces the Congress. I think that the leg-
islation passed last year by the Congress,
signed by me, is adequate. It's already
brought about a substantial improvement
in the well-being of farm families in this
country since it went into effect the first
day of October. Farm prices had reached
a bottom in September. And I think since
then there's been good progress.
We do have market problems. You
know, we could raise our prices, at the ex-
pense of other taxpayers, to the farmers
and create a very healthy economic situa-
tion-no matter what the weather was, no
matter how much the production was.
But we would cut off the opportunity for
export of our agricultural products, be-
cause they would be noncompetitive and
we could break the budget. So, I think
that the action that has already been
taken in the '77 act, plus the administra-
tive decisions that were announced by
the Vice President while I was away on
my trip, worked out with the Secretary of
Agriculture, are adequate. I don't think
they are excessive, but I think they are
adequate. And I think that the present
trend of increased economic well-being
of farmers is almost inevitably going to
continue.
Q. Can I follow up on that, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Please.
718
