Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
-We will continue to enforce the $400
million minority business set-aside pro-
vision in the local public works act, and
may exceed that target.
-We will continue to implement the
minority business set-aside policy estab-
lished for contracts let in the North-
east Corridor Railroad Improvement
Program.
Undocumented Aliens
Last year, I proposed legislation to im-
pose sanctions on employers who hire un-
documented aliens and to change the legal
status of the many undocumented aliens
now residing in this country. That legis-
lation would afford undocumented aliens
residing here continuously since before
1970 the opportunity to apply for perma-
nent resident status. It would create a
new five-year temporary resident status
for those undocumented aliens who re-
sided here continuously from 1970 to
January 1, 1977. I want to work with
Congress this year toward passage of an
undocumented aliens bill, for this social
and economic problem can no longer be
ignored.
Native Americans
The Administration has acted con-
sistently to uphold its trusteeship respon-
sibility to Native Americans. We also have
elevated the post of Commissioner of In-
dian Affairs to the level of Assistant Sec-
retary of Interior. In 1978, the Admin-
istration will review Federal Native
American policy and will step up efforts
to help Indian tribes assess and manage
their natural resources.
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORM
Last year, my Administration began a
number of major efforts to improve our
Nation's legal and judicial system, and we
intend to pursue those and related efforts
fully this year.
Criminal Code Reform
We have worked closely with members
of Congress to develop a proposed revi-
sion of the Nation's Criminal Code. That
revision will codify in one part of the U.S.
Code all Federal crime laws and will re-
form many outdated and inconsistent
criminal laws. My Administration will
work closely with Congress this year to
seek passage of the first complete codifi-
cation of the Nation's criminal laws.
Judicial Reform
The Federal judicial system has suffer-
ed for many years from an inadequate
number of judges, and we will continue
to work with Congress on an Omnibus
Judgeship Bill to correct this problem.
We will also continue our efforts to use
our judges more effectively, through leg-
islation which we have proposed to ex-
pand significantly the authority of magis-
trates, to increase the use of arbitration,
and to tighten Federal jurisdiction. We
will work this year to complete Congres-
sional action on these bills.
Wiretap Reform
Last year we proposed legislation re-
forming our approach to electronic sur-
veillance for foreign intelligence pur-
poses, and affording greater protection to
our citizens. Essentially, that legislation
would require the government to obtain
a court order before beginning any for-
eign intelligence wiretaps in this coun-
try. My Administration supports early
passage of this much needed legislation.
Anti-trust Enforcement and Competition
Our Nation's anti-trust laws must be
vigorously enforced. Therefore, I recently
established a Presidential Commission to
review Federal anti-trust enforcement,
and to make its recommendations this
year.
112
