Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
borhood development projects and by
creating an Urban Volunteer Corps.
These efforts will be undertaken with the
approval of local elected officials.
• Increase access to opportunity for
those disadvantaged by economic circum-
stance or a history of discrimination.
• Provide additional social and health
services to disadvantaged people in cities
and communities.
Improve the urban physical environ-
ment and the cultural and aesthetic
aspects of urban life by providing addi-
tional assistance for housing rehabilita-
tion, mass transit, the arts, culture, parks
and recreation facilities.
America's communities are an invalua-
ble national asset. They are the center of
our culture, the incubators of new ideas
and inventions, the centers of commerce
and finance, and the homes of our great
museums, libraries and theatres. Cities
contain trillions of dollars of public and
private investments-investments which
we must conserve, rehabilitate and fully
use.
The New Partnership I am proposing
today will focus the full energies of my
Administration on a comprehensive, long-
term effort. It will encourage States to
redirect their own resources to support
their urban areas more effectively. It will
encourage local governments to stream-
line and coordinate their own activities.
It will offer incentives to the private sec-
tor to make new investments in economi-
cally depressed communities. And it will
involve citizens and neighborhood and
voluntary organizations in meeting the
economic and social needs of their com-
munities.
• Combining the resources of Federal,
State and local government, and using
them as a lever to involve the even greater
strength of our private economy to con-
serve and strengthen our cities and com-
munities.
Being flexible enough to give help
where it is most needed and to respond to
the particular needs of each community.
Increasing access to opportunity for
those disadvantaged by economic cir-
cumstances or history of discrimination.
• And above all, drawing on the sense
of community and voluntary effort that I
believe is alive in America, and on the
loyalty that Americans feel for their
neighborhoods.
The need for a New Partnership is
clear from the record of the last fifteen
years. During the 1960's, the Federal gov-
ernment took a strong leadership role in
responding to the problems of the cities.
The Federal government attempted to
identify the problems, develop the solu-
tions and implement the programs. State
and local governments and the private
sector were not sufficiently involved.
While many of these programs were suc-
cessful, we learned an important lesson:
that the Federal government alone has
neither the resources nor the knowledge
to solve all urban problems.
An equally important lesson emerged
from the experience of the early 1970's.
During this period, the Federal govern-
ment retreated from its responsibilities,
leaving States and localities with insuffi-
cient resources, interest or leadership to
accomplish all that needed to be done. We
learned that States and localities cannot
solve the problems by themselves.
These experiences taught us that a suc-
The New Partnership will be guided cessful urban policy must build a partner-
by these principles:
• Simplifying and improving programs
and policy at all levels of government.
ship that involves the leadership of the
Federal government and the participation
of all levels of government, the private
582
