Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 23
lications likely to be read by those af-
fected; and (4) notifying interested
parties directly.
Agencies shall give the public at least
60 days to comment on proposed signifi-
cant regulations. In the few instances
where agencies determine this is not pos-
sible, the regulation shall be accompanied
by a brief statement of the reasons for a
shorter time period.
(d) Approval of Significant Regula-
tions. The head of each agency, or the
designated official with statutory respon-
sibility, shall approve significant regula-
tions before they are published for public
comment in the FEDERAL REGISTER. At a
minimum, this official should determine
that:
(1) the proposed regulation is needed;
(2) the direct and indirect effects of
the regulation have been ade-
quately considered;
(3) alternative approaches have been
considered and the least burden-
some of the acceptable alternatives
has been chosen;
(4) public comments have been con-
sidered and an adequate response
has been prepared;
(5) the regulation is written in plain
English and is understandable to
those who must comply with it;
(6) an estimate has been made of the
new reporting burdens or record-
keeping requirements necessary for
compliance with the regulation;
(7) the name, address and telephone
number of a knowledgeable agency
official is included in the publica-
tion; and
(8) a plan for evaluating the regula-
tion after its issuance has been de-
veloped.
(e) Criteria for Determining Signifi-
cant Regulations. Agencies shall establish
criteria for identifying which regulations
are significant. Agencies shall consider
among other things: (1) the type and
number of individuals, businesses, orga-
nizations, State and local governments af-
fected; (2) the compliance and reporting
requirements likely to be involved; (3)
direct and indirect effects of the regula-
tion including the effect on competition;
and (4) the relationship of the regulations
to those of other programs and agencies.
Regulations that do not meet an agency's
criteria for determining significance shall
be accompanied by a statement to that
effect at the time the regulation is pro-
posed.
SEC. 3. Regulatory Analysis. Some of
the regulations identified as significant
may have major economic consequences
for the general economy, for individual
industries, geographical regions or levels
of government. For these regulations,
agencies shall prepare a regulatory analy-
sis. Such an analysis shall involve a care-
ful examination of alternative approaches
early in the decisionmaking process.
The following requirements shall gov-
ern the preparation of regulatory anal-
yses:
(a) Criteria. Agency heads shall estab-
lish criteria for determining which regu-
lations require regulatory analyses. The
criteria established shall:
(1) ensure that regulatory analyses
are performed for all regulations
which will result in (a) an annual
effect on the economy of $100 mil-
lion or more; or (b) a major
increase in costs or prices for indi-
vidual industries, levels of govern-
ment or geographic regions; and
(2) provide that in the agency head's
discretion, regulatory analysis may
be completed on any proposed reg-
ulation.
(b) Procedures. Agency heads shall es-
tablish procedures for developing the reg-
ulatory analysis and obtaining public
comment.
559
