Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 9
Congress. And there are many other as-
pects of American life that apply across
the board to all our citizens for which you
have dedicated your influence, your time,
and your very unselfish commitment.
This, I believe, in the long run will greatly
strengthen the influence of the National
Council of Senior Citizens. And this, I
believe, will give an image to the rest of
the country, an accurate image of how
unselfish you really are.
I want to be sure that all of you live
not only a secure life, one dedicated to
constant education and expansion of your
minds and hearts that I've already de-
scribed, but one that is productive. There
is no reason why someone who has finished
a business or professional career can't live
an even greater, broader, more productive
life when the years of retirement arrive.
You have much greater flexibility in mak-
ing your own decisions. You have more
free time to broaden your interests and
your influence. And this can be the kin-
dling of an expansive life for every one
of you.
The fact that you have saved up and
earned enough money to come here to this
convention is an indication that you al-
ready agree with me. But I would like to
ask you in the future to continue this
great contribution that you are already
demonstrating as part of your lives, not
on a national basis, not even to come to
Washington for an exciting meeting of
your own, but where you live. Whether
you've retired and gone to California or
Florida or Arizona or Georgia, or whether
you've decided to stay with your own
families and friends, there is an oppor-
tunity for greatly expanded service that I
know will appeal to each one of you.
There is a chance to serve those who
are mentally ill. It doesn't take profes-
sional training in medicine to volunteer
your services to go into the centers in the
community or to work with individuals to
make sure that they have a chance to
know that their lives are significant, that
they're appreciated, that they're under-
stood. This is important to them. It's im-
portant to you.
As you look around you in your own
community, there are many people, many
families much less fortunate than you are.
They may not speak English very well.
They may not have been in this country
very long. All of our ancestors almost
were in the same circumstance in years
gone by.
There may be a time when they don't
feel that they have a single staunch, de-
pendable friend in the community. And it
would not be difficult for you through
your labor organizations, through your
churches, through your civic commit-
ments, to identify a particular family. You
may not ever be thanked for it, but you
could go and visit that family, get to
know the father, the mother-they're re-
tired people perhaps the children that
have problems with the law or in school,
and just let them know that you are their
friend. And if they do have a problem
with the educational system, you could
learn what it is, and with your own influ-
ence, with your own status in the com-
munity, go to the education officials and
say, "I know that these poor people who
live near me don't have the same oppor-
tunity that my children have had or that
I had or that most do have." And you
could be a voice for a single family; in the
process, greatly expand your understand-
ing of people who were deprived and are
deprived in our society today.
There is an opportunity through volun-
teer work for you in effect to adopt as a
friend some person who has been in prison,
perhaps a young person who's now been
paroled or placed on probation. Quite
often the reasons for their earlier crime is
that they are alienated from society. They
don't have an access to the stable part,
1065
