Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Success in keeping a firm rein on spend-
ing will permit further tax reductions in
years to come. Our ability to foresee the
future course of the economy is not good
enough, however, to enable us to know
when additional reductions will be
needed or how large they should be. It
would therefore be imprudent to plan
specific policy measures now for more
than the current and the next fiscal year.
But I will make recommendations for
budget and tax policies for 1980 and
beyond that are in keeping with our ob-
jectives of steady growth in the economy,
more stable prices, and principal reliance
on the private sector to achieve economic
expansion.
WORKING TO REDUCE THE FEDERAL DEFI-
CIT AND BALANCE THE BUDGET AS SOON
AS THE STRENGTH OF THE ECONOMY
ALLOWS
Federal budgetary policy can play a
constructive role in maintaining the
health of the economy. There are times
when large deficits in the Federal budget
must be tolerated because they are needed
to bolster the purchasing power of con-
sumers and businesses. A budget deficit
that persisted during a period of high em-
ployment and strong further growth of
private demand, however, would put up-
ward pressures on prices and would ag-
gravate our inflationary problem. Under
those circumstances, a budget deficit
would also absorb savings that would be
better used by the private sector to build
new factories and offices and to purchase
new machines. In order to assure that our
economic progress remains on a solid foot-
ing and is not undermined by inflation,
we must reduce the Federal budget deficit
and achieve a balanced budget as soon as
the developing strength in the economy
allows.
The first requisite is careful manage-
ment and control of Federal spending.
The second is a prudent weighing of the
need for tax reductions against the goal
of budget balance.
This year I have proposed budgets that
call for a deficit of $62 billion in 1978,
and one only slightly smaller in 1979. Had
I decided not to recommend a tax cut to
put additional purchasing power in the
hands of consumers and businesses, the
deficit in 1979 could have been $15 to
$20 billion smaller. But I believe that tax
reduction is essential to continued prog-
ress in an economy still characterized by
substantial unemployment and idle plant
capacity.
How rapidly we can restore budget bal-
ance depends on the strength of the pri-
vate economy. Over the next few years,
two factors will be of particular impor-
tance.
The first is the financial condition of
State and local governments. In the past,
the aggregate budget of these govern-
ments tended to be approximately in bal-
ance. Today the State and local sector as
a whole is in surplus. In 1977, for ex-
ample, aggregate State and local receipts
from all sources exceeded expenditures by
nearly $30 billion. This overall surplus
does not mean that every State and local
government is in good financial condition.
Many are hard pressed. Moreover, a large
part of the aggregate surplus represents
accumulations of pension funds for the
13 million employees of State and local
governments.
Substantial surpluses in the State and
local sector are likely to continue in the
future. They absorb the incomes of con-
sumers and business, and so act as a drag
on the economy.
The second factor affecting the pace at
which we can expect to move toward
136
