Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
will make the tax system simpler and
more equitable. Without the reduction, I
would have been able to announce a de-
cline in the deficit of $15 to $20 billion
between 1978 and 1979. With the reduc-
tion, the budget deficit will still decline
slightly, because of careful restraints on
expenditures. But I judged that the most
important priority this year was to reduce
the burdens on taxpayers. Only in this
way can we ensure a vigorous economy, a
declining unemployment rate, a strong
expansion of private investment, and a
stable budget balance in future years.
the future, and that the national energy
plan is essential to the future health and
vigor of the American economy. The
United States also must take the lead in
minimizing the risks of nuclear weapons
proliferation as we advance nuclear
power technology. Thus, this budget in-
creases research and development funding
for systems that present fewer risks than
the plutonium-fueled liquid metal fast
breeder reactor.
-The essential human needs of our
citizens must be given high priority.
In the spring of 1977 I proposed a
long-overdue reform of the Nation's wel-
fare system. This reform recognizes that
this is a Nation of men and women who do
not wish to be wards of the Government
but who want to work and to be self-suffi-
cient. It includes a combination of em-
While the expenditures I recommend
in this budget are restrained, they are,
nevertheless, directed toward overcoming
our Nation's crucial problems. I have
looked carefully at existing approaches to
these problems and improved those ap-
proaches where possible. The spending ployment opportunities and incentives for
priorities of the past are now being shifted
toward long-neglected areas. These new
priorities are based on the following judg-
ments:
-An effective national energy plan is
essential to reduce our increasingly
critical dependence upon diminishing
supplies of oil and gas, to encourage
conservation of scarce energy re-
sources, to stimulate conversion to
more abundant fuels, and to reduce
our large trade deficit.
pro-
The national energy plan I
posed last spring defined these goals. This
budget includes the programs and initia-
tives designed to meet those objectives. In-
cluded are increased emphases on conser-
vation and nonnuclear research and de-
velopment, energy grants and technical
assistance to States and localities, ac-
celerated acquisition of the strategic petro-
leum reserve, and greater emphases on nu-
clear waste management. I continue in
the unswerving belief that the Nation's
leaders have the obligation to plan for
those who should work, and a basic in-
come for those who cannot. This budget
anticipates that Congress will pass the
program for better jobs and income, and
begins the process of careful planning for
the implementation of an efficient and
equitable system.
The budget also recognizes that ensur-
ing the opportunity to compete and excel
remains very important to our people. To
give all children the healthiest possible
start in life, I propose major expansion of
medical care and nutritional supplements
for low-income expectant mothers and
infants. In addition, I propose major in-
creases in educational assistance at all
levels. Because of the continued high level
of unemployment, particularly among
minorities, I believe public employment
programs should be continued at high
levels for another year. Major increases in
programs stressing employment for unem-
ployed youth are recommended. A new
effort will be mounted to place more dis-
186
