Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
They guarantee that the canal will be
open always for unrestricted use by the
ships of the world. Our ships have the
right to go to the head of the line for
priority of passage in times of emergency
or need. We retain the permanent right
to defend the canal with our own military
forces, if necessary, to guarantee its
openness and its neutrality.
The treaties are to the clear advantage
of ourselves, the Panamanians, and the
other users of the canal. Ratifying the
Panama Canal treaties will demonstrate
our good faith to the world, discourage
the spread of hostile ideologies in this
hemisphere, and directly contribute to the
economic well-being and the security of
the United States.
We Americans have a great deal of
work to do together. In the end, how well
we do that work will depend on the spirit
in which we approach it. We must seek
fresh answers, unhindered by the stale
prescriptions of the past.
It has been said that our best years are
behind us. But I say again that America's
best is still ahead. We have emerged from
bitter experiences chastened but proud,
confident once again, ready to face chal-
lenges once again, and united once again.
We come together tonight at a solemn
time. Last week the Senate lost a good
and honest man-Lee Metcalf of Mon-
tana.
And today, the flag of the United States
flew at half-mast from this Capitol and
I have to say that that's very welcome from American installations and ships all
applause. [Laughter]
There were two moments on my recent
journey which, for me, confirmed the
final aims of our foreign policy and what
it always must be.
One was in a little village in India,
where I met a people as passionately at-
tached to their rights and liberties as we
are, but whose children have a far smaller
chance for good health or food or educa-
tion or human fulfillment than a child
born in this country.
The other moment was in Warsaw,
capital of a nation twice devastated by
war in this century. There, people have
rebuilt the city which war's destruction
took from them. But what was new only
emphasized clearly what was lost.
What I saw in those two places crys-
talized for me the purposes of our own
Nation's policy: to ensure economic jus-
tice, to advance human rights, to resolve
conflicts without violence, and to pro-
claim in our great democracy our con-
stant faith in the liberty and dignity of
human beings everywhere.
over the world, in mourning for Senator
Hubert Humphrey.
Because he exemplified so well the joy
and the zest of living, his death reminds
us not so much of our own mortality, but
of the possibilities offered to us by life.
He always looked to the future with a
special American kind of confidence, of
hope and enthusiasm. And the best way
that we can honor him is by following
his example.
Our task-to use the words of Sena-
tor Humphrey is "reconciliation, re-
building, and rebirth."
Reconciliation of private needs and in-
terests into a higher purpose.
Rebuilding the old dreams of justice
and liberty, and country and community.
Rebirth of our faith in the common
good.
Each of us here tonight-and all who
are listening in your homes-must re-
dedicate ourselves to serving the common
good. We are a community, a beloved
community, all of us. Our individual fates
are linked, our futures intertwined. And
if we act in that knowledge and in that
97
