Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks in an Interview for "Black
Perspective on the News." April 5, 1978
REGINALD BRYANT. Mr. President, I
would like to thank you for joining us on
Black Perspective. I would like to intro-
duce to you the gentlemen who will be
joining me in asking the questions.
First, from Philadelphia, the associate
editor and the columnist for the Philadel-
phia Evening Sunday Bulletin, Mr.
Claude Lewis. And a gentleman who was
indeed with us the last time we spoke,
from the Chicago Tribune, their column-
ist, Mr. Vernon Jarrett.
I should like to say, too, that we are a
living example of perhaps a campaign
promise that you were able to keep. Since
the last time we spoke, the proposition was
that if you became President, you would
make an attempt to be with us. Here you
are, and here we are.
PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO AFRICA
I should like to start the questioning,
Mr. President, by asking you with regard
to the African, South American tour that
you just took, what impact you really
think that your visit will have had. There
has been some speculation that one of the
reasons, for example, for going to Nigeria
was because of the importance they repre-
sent with regard to oil imports in this
country and with regard to the relation-
ships of African problems of human rights
and our own. What sense do you have of
that?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, first of all,
that I'm glad to be on the program again.
This is my third opportunity to appear
on the Black Perspective and News. I
understand I'm the first President who's
been interviewed by a black panel. And
I think it's very appropriate that, in a
rapidly changing world, with an increas-
ing interest on the part of our own coun-
try in the predominantly black nations of
Africa, that this be possible, in addition
to the domestic considerations that also
make it a very important opportunity
for me.
I went to Nigeria not because of the oil
situation at all. I think you know that Ni-
geria is by far the largest nation in Africa
in population, with between 85 and 100
million people. Also, it's an increasing im-
portant nation as far as its influence on
political affairs, economic affairs in the
western coast, and in fact throughout
Africa.
Two or three years ago we had prac-
tically no relationship with the black Af-
rican nations, in fact had a very unfavor-
able relationship with Nigeria. I think
that when Secretary Kissinger, under the
previous administration, wanted to visit
Nigeria, they refused to let him come into
the country for a visit.
The reception this time was superb.
There was a genuine demonstration of
friendship, welcome, a sense of partner-
ship between Nigeria and the United
States, a recognition that our country now
is not only deeply involved in the African
Continent in a beneficial way but that we
have espoused policies that found ap-
proval in Nigeria and among the front-
line presidents, and that our approach to
the possible resolution of the differences
in Zimbabwe and Namibia are quite ac-
ceptable to those who live in the southern
part of Africa who happen to be black.
So, I think the economics, politics of
my visit were beneficial to our country.
As I pointed out during the visit, by the
end of this century, 80 percent of all the
people who live on Earth will live in Latin
America, Africa, and Asia. That's less
than 20 years. And we want to be sure
that our friendships are solid, that the
policies that I put forward representing
the American people are good ones, that
they are based on close consultation and
688
