Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 27, 1978
Middle East Negotiations
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on Board Air Force One en Route to Georgia.
January 20, 1978
REPORTER. You know what we're all in-
terested in is whether President Sadat is
going to come to Washington in the near
future to confer with you.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. We've
not made any plans about it, and there
have been no discussions with him about
it.
Q. There was some talk over there that
he would like to do this, or he thinks it
might be helpful.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've seen in
the news that he has proposed this as a
possibility for the future. And I notice
that Prime Minister Begin has also said
that it would be a possibility for the fu-
ture. But I don't know of any discussions
that there have been between either those
two nor with me.
Q. How serious is this apparent set-
back in that progress toward negotiations?
We are acting as an intermediary the
best we can, trying to convince both sides
of the other's good intentions, and hope
that we can succeed. It's been a relief to
us the last number of weeks to have those
two nations negotiating directly.
Secretary Vance, who's been involved
in some very difficult discussions in the
past with Vietnam and in the Cyprus
question, in years gone by, says this is
a normal procedure when adversaries
first begin to discuss specifics with one
another. It's one major step just to agree
to talk at all. But in the aftermath of the
good will following the personal acquaint-
ance and introduction, to start discussing
ancient differences is always a letdown
and a disappointment. But he's encour-
aged. He's not discouraged. And we're
determined to carry out our own schedule.
Secretary Vance will be back in Wash-
ington this weekend, and I will talk to
him directly. We have had two or three
communications from him daily. So, it's
a temporary setback. It has been and can
be serious, but we have hopes that we'll
see it all straightened out and that
political and military talks recommence.
Q. What kind of sense did you get
from Mr. Sadat when you spoke with
him? Did he seem discouraged?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm afraid it's
very serious. Secretary Vance has spent
hours the last 2 days both with Prime
Minister Begin and with President Sadat.
They are planning to go ahead with the
military talks, and we hope that there
won't be anything other than a brief in-couraged and, I'd say, deeply concerned.
terruption in the political talks.
My request to him was to leave his
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, he seemed dis-
151
