June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
JORDAN A. BARUCH, Assistant Secretary for Sci-
ence and Technology, Department of
Commerce;
JOHN M. DEUTCH, Director of Energy Re-
search, Department of Energy;
DONALD S. FREDRICKSON, Director, National
Institutes of Health, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare;
WILLIAM H. MENARD, Director, U.S. Geolog-
ical Survey, Department of the Interior;
ROGER W. SULLIVAN, Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, De-
partment of State;
BENJAMIN HUBERMAN, Assistant Director for
National Security, International and Space
Affairs, Office of Science and Technology
Policy, and staff member, National Security
Council;
ANNE KEATLEY, senior staff member, Office of
Science and Technology Policy;
MICHEL OKSENBERG, staff member, National
Security Council;
SCOTT HALFORD, country officer for East Asia/
People's Republic of China and Mongolia,
Department of State;
FLO L. BROUSSARD, Secretary to Dr. Press.
United States Ambassador to the
Solomon Islands
Nomination of Ambassador Mary S.
Olmsted. June 27, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Mary S. Olmsted, cur-
rently U.S. Ambassador to Papua New
Guinea, to serve concurrently as Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States to the Solomon
Islands.
Olmsted, of Signal Mountain, Tenn.,
was born September 28, 1919, in Duluth,
Minn. She received a B.A. from Holyoke
College in 1941 and an M.A. from Co-
lumbia University in 1945.
Olmsted joined the Foreign Service in
1945 and served in Montreal, Amsterdam,
Reykjavík, and Vienna. She was detailed
to the Fletcher School of Law and Di-
plomacy and to the Commerce Depart-
ment.
From 1960 to 1965, she was economic
officer in New Delhi, and from 1966 to
1969, she was supervisory economic officer
at the State Department. From 1969 to
1971, she was detailed to the Office of
Economic Opportunity.
In 1971 and 1972, Olmsted was Dep-
uty Director for Personnel Management
Services at the State Department, and
from 1972 to 1974, she was Deputy Di-
rector of Personnel for Policy, Classifica-
tion and Evaluation. In 1974 and 1975,
she was Consul General in Port Moresby.
Since 1975 she has been Ambassador to
Papua New Guinea.
Task Force on Women
Business Owners
Remarks on Receiving the Report of the
Task Force. June 28, 1978
During one speech while I was cam-
paigning for President, I said that when
Amy grows up, I'd like for her to have
just as clear a vision of being a medical
doctor as a nurse, or a lawyer as a secre-
tary, or to be President as to be a Presi-
dent's wife. I know when I was a child, I
was an entrepreneur at a very early age,
selling boiled peanuts when I was 5 years
old and later graduating to hamburgers
and homemade ice cream. [Laughter]
Amy has already started in the lemonade
business, as you may have noticed during
the halcyon days when I was a nominee
and before I had any responsibilities as
President.
And I think that last year, the testi-
mony that Juanita Kreps gave to the
Congress about the problems with women
being entrepreneurs and business exec-
utives inspired me to call on this Task
Force to meet to investigate the present
1188
