Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 15
We are a party which does not believe
in unanimity. We are a party which does
not believe in complacency. We inherited
some tremendous challenges and problems
which have become opportunities for us.
When I came into office a little more
than a year ago, out of every 100 people
of working age, 8 were looking for jobs.
And because of the tremendous work of
the Congress during 1977, we had a net
increase of 4 million jobs in the United
States, the greatest increase in the history
of our country. And the most recent statis-
tics, as you know, on unemployment are
only about 6 percent, a tremendous
growth in the strength of our people and
their confidence in the future, brought
about by the simple right to work for their
own living.
Last year the Congress reduced taxes $6
billion. This year we expect to reduce
taxes again $25 billion.
We've begun to reorganize our own
Government to make it more effective,
more efficient, more responsive, more
open, more simple; to do away with the
redtape that strangles us and the paper-
work that suffocates us; to try to write
regulations in simple terms that people
can understand; to draw together those
who work for and with the Government
of our country.
We proposed and put into effect one of
the most far-reaching health programs for
young people ever seen in our Nation and
the biggest increase in the budget for
simple education in history.
We've raised a banner, that can be seen
clearly throughout the world, of openness
and decency and commitment to the
principles on which our Nation was
founded the principles of freedom, of
liberty, of basic human rights. And this´is
a standard that we will never lower as
long as Democrats run this Government.
We've strengthened our ties with our
friends and allies around the world, and
our potential adversaries know that we
deal from a position of wanting peace. I
hope to have success this year in negotia-
tions to limit and to reduce and to restrain
the investments in atomic weapons, to
have a comprehensive test ban. And the
Congress has recently presented to me and
I signed into law, for the first time, a com-
prehensive way to permit atomic power to
be used for peaceful purposes, but to pre-
vent nations from having nuclear explo-
sives derived from this superb, peaceful
use.
We are a nation which is strong, which
is confident. We're a nation united. We're
a nation with the prospect for the
future that doesn't cause concern. We're
struggling with issues without timidity or
fear, without trepidation or hesitation.
We're a nation that, through strength, has
achieved for this first 14 months and we
will retain as long as this administration
lasts absolute peace for American men
and women throughout the world. We
have peace, and we're going to keep it.
America is a multifaceted community.
We pride ourselves on individuality, on
the right to be different, the right to speak
our piece, the right to be heard, the right
to debate, the right to reach a solution
through tough, independent negotiations.
We respect one another because we are
one people.
In 1976 American voters, having con-
fidence in us, gave a mandate for admin-
istration, and in 1978, this year, all of us
jointly, working together, recognizing
from whence comes our strength, will take
this superb vision of what our Nation can
be to the people. And in that effort, I
have no doubt that we will be successful.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
9:45 p.m. in the International Ballroom at
the Washington Hilton Hotel. He was intro-
duced by Vice President Walter F. Mondale.
513
