Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 2
of Chairman Nelson Cruikshank as my
Counselor on Aging.
In closing, let me assure you that we
will continue to carefully consider the
views of the Council as social and eco-
nomic policy affecting the elderly is de-
veloped and implemented in the years to
come.
The White House,
May 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Annual Report
to the President-1977, Federal Council on
the Aging" (Government Printing Office,
62 pages).
National Small Business Person
of the Year
Remarks at the Presentation Ceremony for
Edward Gaffney. May 2, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me wel-
come to the White House, to the Rose
Garden, fellow small business persons of
the United States. I always feel at home
when I meet with those of you who have
had a background as entrepreneurs, who
have participated not only in ownership
but also in the management of your own
small business. I recognize not only the
joys and accomplishments and the grati-
fication of being a small business person
but also the difficulties and the problems
that are derived from that responsibility.
And because of those difficulties, I sought
a different job a couple of years ago, and
thanks to some of you, I was successful.
[Laughter]
Since I've been in the White House,
being one of the few small businessmen
who have ever served as President, I've
made a special effort to open up gov-
ernment to the interrelationship that
ought to exist between small business
leaders of our Nation and the members
of the Cabinet and the agencies of the
Federal Government-not just to help
the small business community of our Na-
tion but, equally important, perhaps even
more important, to help government, be-
cause your perspective and your knowl-
edge and your experience is a great res-
ervoir of advice and counsel and con-
structive criticism that can be a major
factor in making government better.
We've had, now, small business groups
meet with almost all of the members of
the Cabinet, and there is constant ar-
rangement for periodic meetings between
small business leaders of all kinds and
my Domestic Policy Adviser, Stu Eizen-
stat, and his associates. So, there's a con-
tinual interchange and exchange of ideas
that's been very beneficial to me.
Yesterday I signed an executive order
that will set up a procedure that will
result in a new emphasis on industrial
innovation. In the last few years, there's
been a deterioration in the amount of
benefit to our Nation of new ideas, new
concepts, and innovative ideas from busi-
ness that can be very constructive to us
all.
Under Vernon Weaver's leadership
we've increased in 1 year the guaran-
teed bank loans for small business by
about 40 percent, from roughly $2 billion
in 1976 to $2.65 billion in 1977. We've
tried to deal also with special groups in
the small business community who in the
past have been deprived. For instance,
we set as a goal last year to double the
amount of Federal procurement from
businesses owned by minority citizens.
And we will meet that goal, and we hope
to increase it another billion dollars this
coming year.
When we passed the legislation last
year to put into effect a very strong pub-
lic works program, we set aside 10 per-
cent of that to be awarded to minority
contractors, and we've exceeded that
819
