June 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to the carved implements of the Eskimo
people. With the addition of this build-
ing, the scope and definition of displayed
art are both broader and deeper than ever
before. With the private museums of this
city, they make Washington a place where
we may enjoy the full range of the crea-
tions of the human hand and the human
eye.
This building tells us something about
ourselves, about the role of art in our
lives, about the relations between public
life and the life of art, and about the ma-
turing of an American civilization.
The beauty of this East Building and
its location at the fulcrum of the cere-
monial avenue of our Federal City will
ensure that it takes its place alongside the
Capitol Building and the Memorials as
an emblem of our national life.
As the Capitol symbolizes our belief in
political democracy and civil freedom,
the National Gallery symbolizes our belief
in the freedom and the genius of the
human mind which is manifested in art.
In an open society like our own, the
relationship between government and the
arts must necessarily be a delicate one. We
have no ministry of culture in this coun-
try, and I hope we never will. We have
no official art in this country, and I pray
that we never will. No matter how demo-
cratic a government may be, no matter
how responsive to the wishes of its people,
it can never be government's role to define
exactly what is good or true or beautiful.
Instead, government must limit itself to
nourishing the ground in which art and
the love of art can grow. So, within those
limits, there is much that government can
do, and much that we are doing.
In the past year we've increased sub-
stantially our support of the National En-
dowments for the Arts and for the Hu-
manities. And much of that increase has
come in the form of challenge grants,
whereby government funds are matched
with private donations.
Because we are committed to an open
and flexible relationship, support for the
arts and humanities flows through many
different kinds of channels, leaving room
for art and scholarship to develop natu-
rally.
This Gallery, for example, is main-
tained at public expense, but it owes its
existence to acts of private philanthropy.
Moreover, acquisitions of works of art is
financed entirely from private donations.
It's equally significant that this building
will serve both as a museum and as a
center for art scholarship.
We have before us here in concrete,
marble, and glass a tangible demonstra-
tion that excellence and access to a wide
public are far from being contradictory.
They are complementary. This building
stands as a metaphor for what, at its best,
the relationship between government and
the arts can be.
When President Roosevelt dedicated
the original National Gallery of Art on
March 17, 1941, he said, "The dedica-
tion of this Gallery to a living past and to
a greater and more richly living future is
the measure of the earnestness of our in-
tention that the freedom of the human
spirit shall go on.’
دو
It did go on, and the building we ded-
icate today is a reaffirmation in this gen-
eration that human values, the expres-
sion of courage and love, in triumph over
despair, will always endure.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:13 p.m. out-
side the East Building. Prior to his remarks,
John Walker, Episcopal Bishop of Washing-
ton, gave the invocation.
Following the ceremonies, the President
toured the East Building.
1028
