Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 6
ful examination of all aspects of the Mid-
dle East problem and had created a basis
of mutual understanding and agreement
for the continuing cooperation of their
two governments in the search for peace.
National Poison Prevention
Week, 1978
Proclamation 4550. February 6, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
When stored safely and used properly,
products such as medicines, polishes, sol-
vents and pesticides can make our lives
easier.
But many of these products contain
toxic ingredients which, when used or
stored carelessly, can find their way into
the hands of our children. Although spe-
cial packaging has reduced dramatically
the number of incidents each year, house-
hold substances still poison many children.
Therefore, the theme of this year's Na-
tional Poison Prevention Week is: “Chil-
dren Act Fast-So Do Poisons."
To remind all Americans of the dangers
of poisonings and to encourage all of us
to eliminate this problem, the Congress,
by joint resolution of September 26, 1961
(75 Stat. 681, 36 U.S.C. 165) has re-
quested the President to issue annually a
proclamation designating the third week
in March as National Poison Prevention
Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week beginning
March 19, 1978, as National Poison Pre-
vention Week. I call upon the people of
the United States and all agencies and
organizations concerned with the preven-
tion of poisoning and the welfare of our
Nation's youngsters to join in promoting
increased awareness of, and better protec-
tion against, the dangers of poisoning.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of Feb-
ruary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:43 a.m., February 6, 1978]
Reception Honoring Polish
Americans
Remarks at the White House Reception.
February 6, 1978
First of all, let me say that Rosalynn
and I are very delighted to have all of you
come. In our desire to make you feel at
home and arrange some Warsaw weather,
I'm afraid we cut the size of the crowd
down too much—[laughter]—but it is
beautiful outside, and it's just as pleasant
and pure and friendly as it was when we
left the wonderful country of Poland.
As you noticed from the photographs
outside, we had a delightful and, I think,
a very fruitful visit. Rosalynn and Dr.
Brzezinski had a long meeting with Car-
dinal Wyszynski. It was a very inspiring
report that I got back from my wife. I
don't think any First Family members had
had a chance to meet with him from the
Western nations. And it was very impor-
tant to us as Christians to recognize the
overwhelming influence of the Christian
Church in Poland.
Later, when I talked to First Secretary
Gierek, I told him that I congratulated
281
