Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
threaten, to coerce, or to blackmail us or
our friends.
Our continuing major effort in the
SALT talks taking place every day in
Geneva are one means toward a goal of
strategic nuclear stability.
We and the Soviets have already
reached agreement on some basic points,
although still others remain to be re-
solved. We are making good progress. We
are not looking for a one-sided advan-
tage. But before I sign any SALT agree-
ment on behalf of the United States, I
will make sure that it preserves the
strategic balance, that we can independ-
ently verify Soviet compliance, and that
we will be at least as strong, relative to
the Soviet Union, as we would be with-
out any agreement.
But in addition to the limits and reduc-
tions of a SALT II agreement, we must
make other steps to protect the strategic
balance. During the next decade, im-
provements in Soviet missiles can make
our land-based missile forces in silos in-
creasingly vulnerable to a Soviet first
strike. Such an attack would amount to
national suicide for the Soviet Union. But
however remote, it is a threat against
which we must constantly be on guard.
We have a superb submarine fleet,
which is relatively invulnerable to attack
when it's at sea, and we have under con-
struction new Trident submarines and
missiles which give our submarine ballis-
tic missile force even greater range and
security.
I have ordered rapid development and
deployment of cruise missiles to reinforce
the strategic value of our bombers. We
are working on the M-X intercontinental
ballistic missile and a Trident II sub-
marine-launched ballistic missile to give
us more options to respond to Soviet
strategic deployments. If it becomes nec-
essary to guarantee the clear invulner-
ability of our strategic deterrent, I shall
not hesitate to take actions for full-scale
deployment and development of these
systems.
Our strategic defense forces, our nu-
clear forces, are a triad—land-based mis-
siles, sea-based missiles, and air-breathing
missiles, such as bombers and cruise mis-
siles. Through the plans I've described, all
three legs of this triad will be modernized
and improved. Each will retain the abil-
ity, on its own, to impose devastating re-
taliation upon an aggressor.
For 30 years and more we've been com-
mitted to the defense of Europe, bound by
the knowledge that Western Europe's se-
curity is vital to our own. We continue to
cooperate with our NATO Allies in a
strategy for flexible response, combining
conventional forces and nuclear forces so
that no aggressor can threaten the ter-
ritory of Europe or its freedom, which in
the past we have fought together to
defend.
For several years we and our allies have
been trying to negotiate mutual and bal-
anced reduction in military forces in Eu-
rope with the Soviets and with the War-
saw Pact nations who are their allies. But
in the meantime, the Soviets have con-
tinued to increase and to modernize their
forces beyond a level necessary for de-
fense. In the face of this excessive Soviet
buildup, we and our NATO Allies have
had to take important steps to cope with
short-term vulnerabilities and to respond
to long-term threats. We are significantly
strengthening U.S. forces stationed in
Western Europe and improving our abil-
ity to speed additional ground and air
forces to the defense of Europe in a time
of crisis.
Our European allies, who supply the
major portion of NATO's conventional
combat strength, are also improving their
readiness and their reinforcement capa-
bilities and their antitank defenses. The
heads of the NATO governments will be
533
