Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
words and the expressions of friendship
and understanding for our people and
country. This is a new reaffirmation of the
mutual, deep amity between our peoples
and our countries.
As you said, Mr. President, our people
had to suffer much and to fight for its
liberation and for its independence. Great
sacrifices were given so that we can have
the land of our forefathers to build up for
our children. But when I stand here in
Washington in the presence of the Presi-
dent of the United States, our great friend
and ally, it is my duty as the elected Prime
Minister of Israel to remind public opin-
ion of the fact that Israel is still the only
country in the world against which there
is a written document to the effect that it
must disappear.
There is no country, either large or
small, or even the smallest, against which
there is such a document, demanding,
saying publicly, that country should not
exist, should be wiped off the map, and
behind those people who carry out also
the abominable acts to prove that they
mean it, there is an alignment of many
Arab states, armed to the teeth by the
Soviet Union, and sometimes getting
modern weapons also from the West.
This is the decisive problem we face,
which is called, sometimes, security. I
would like to reaffirm what security
means to us. It means the preservation of
the lives of our elderly people, of our
women and our children-the lives which
are threatened daily-so that to make
sure that the future generations, as ours,
will live in a free and independent coun-
try. This is the great issue we face, or con-
tinue to face.
Now, Mr. President, what is our con-
tribution to the peacemaking process?
Yes, indeed, when I learned that Presi-
dent Sadat is ready to come to Jerusalem,
I immediately sent out to him an invita-
tion to come, and then his visit took place.
After that, President Sadat, in the wake
of my
visit to you in December, Mr.
President, invited me to come to Ismailia.
Both meetings of Jerusalem and Ismailia
were characterized by the spirit of friend-
ship and openness. We knew, President
Sadat and I, that we have differences of
opinion. But we both agreed that we shall
discuss them freely, we shall negotiate
them, because such negotiations are the
soul of any attempt to reach an agreement
and to conclude a peace treaty.
That was the spirit. In that spirit, Israel
contributed three documents, making it
possible to deal with the question how to
reach and conclude peace treaties. We
made a peace proposal in two parts-one
concerning the bilateral relations between
Egypt and Israel, and the other, the full
administrative autonomy for our neigh-
bors, the Palestinian Arabs residing in
Judea, Samaria, and the Gaza Strip.
It was a real contribution to the think-
ing and making of peace, positive, con-
structive; and so it was appreciated here,
Mr. President, and elsewhere, when those
two documents were produced, a forth-
coming proposal to make peace, a long
step forward, a great deal of flexibility, a
notable contribution, to quote the public
statements.
We added another document, a decla-
ration of principles which should make it
possible for everybody to join in the peace
effort. There are three Israeli documents
contributing to go forward in the process
of reaching peace in the Middle East. We
only ask to negotiate. We said it is a basis
and a fair basis for negotiations. There
may be counterproposals. We shall also
negotiate them. This is the process.
Mr. President, may I express our hope
that this will happen, indeed, and the
spirit of the Jerusalem, the Washington,
and the Ismailia meeting will be renewed,
and in that spirit of understanding and
552
