Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 8
liams, Pell, and Representatives Perkins,
Biaggi, Ford, Brademas, and Thompson
have cooperated fully with us, along with
many others. They support this program
and will help to move it rapidly through
the Congress.
Now, Secretary Califano and the Mem-
bers of Congress will explain in more de-
tail this program and would be glad to
answer your questions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following his remarks, Sec-
retary Califano and the Congressmen held a
part of that work, we've seen the death
rate and the stroke rate in Georgia go
down substantially, too.
I want to keep the trend going down
and I'm eager to help you. But I'm very
proud of what work you have done and
are doing and am proud as President to
associate myself with the efforts that
you've undertaken and are doing so well.
And I will pledge my support in every
possible way.
And now I'll give you a copy of the
American Heart Month proclamation
news conference on the proposed legislation. join in with you to protect themselves. I
and hope that all American people will
American Heart Month, 1978
Remarks on Presenting the Proclamation to
Representatives of the American Heart
Association. February 8, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is, I think, one of
the most important things that the Amer-
ican people have to address, and I would
personally like to congratulate the Amer-
ican Heart Association and also the
Heart, Lung and Blood Institute for the
tremendous work you've done.
I think it's your 30th anniversary. And
I notice that, in looking at the statistics
before you came in, that since 1973, we've
had a substantially, I think, well-estab-
lished decrease in deaths resulting from
heart disease and stroke, which is primar-
ily because of the good work you're doing
in educating people on what we need to do
in simple things: regular medical check-
ups, good diet-watch the salt intake-
and get exercise. I'm very proud of that.
We've initiated, when I was Governor
of Georgia, what we called the Cripplers
and Killers Analysis. And we tried to do
simple things like just getting people to
have the blood pressure checked and de-
tect potential stroke victims. And as a
understand that heart diseases are now
still our most severe cause of death. In
fact, about half the people die because of
heart afflictions of some sort. It's very im-
portant work, and the progress has been,
I think, profound.
DR. WILLIAM AUSTEN
AUSTEN [president,
American Heart Association]. Speaking
for the scientific community, we not only
want to thank you but we're very grateful
for your help in this cause. And we are, I
think, very pleased that you spent a little
time with us and say these things. We look
forward to working on these things in the
years ahead.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Dr. Press re-
minds me frequently about my need to
improve the commitment to basic re-
search and also to promote programs like
yours that have proven themselves to be
effective. You've got a substantial recom-
mendation of the Congress for increases
in basic research funds which have been
kind of dormant for too long.
I have a slight scientific background,
not very much, but I feel like I'm part of
the community.
DR. AUSTEN. Well, we're very pleased
about that, too, because we saw your
strong statement about an increase in
terms of basic research and your wish to
289
