June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to control inflation. It's bad; it's getting
worse; and it's going to require some sac-
rifice on the part of American people.
One of the most serious threats is in the
rapidly escalating cost of hospital care.
The Congress is now facing another very
difficult decision. As you know, the profits
of privately owned hospitals have been
leaping year by year. The costs of hospital
care have been going up 17 percent annu-
ally, doubling every 5 years, much greater
than the costs of the goods and services
they have to pay for in providing medical
care.
We have a very close vote coming up in
the House Commerce Committee soon.
It's going to be a difficult vote on the
House floor, the same thing in the Senate,
because there are tremendous profits in-
volved and tremendously effective lobby-
ing efforts being made not to do anything
to interfere with the rapid costs of hos-
pital care. Quite often medical doctors
own part of the hospitals themselves. And
patients are put in the hospital quite often
when they can very well be served with
outpatient care or a shorter stay in the
hospital.
Services are provided quite often that
are not needed. There's a much greater
incidence of long-term hospital care, sur-
gery, in the Northeast than there is in the
South or the West. And we are trying to
do everything we can to control these
heavy burdens on retired people partic-
ularly, who quite often have to pay for a
major portion of their health care. And
we need your help in this respect.
We want to protect consumers. We
want to have a good tax program, and I
particularly appreciate your good help in
this respect. If our tax reform proposals
can go to the Congress and again, it's a
very tough battle-a million present re-
tired taxpayers will have to pay zero in-
come tax. In addition to that, the tax
system will be simpler and also much more
fair. If we can get hospital cost contain-
ment passed through the Congress, it will
lay a good groundwork to implement our
commitment for a comprehensive national
health care system. You can help with this
as well.
I would like to make an additional ap-
peal to you. I recognize that in an orga-
nization like yours, there are many strong
and dedicated voices and that one of your
primary responsibilities is to protect the
special needs of retired American citizens.
But I've been particularly impressed with
you in your willingness to broaden your
interests and your influence and your con-
tributions to cover the whole scale of issues
that are important to American people of
all ages.
You have helped me, for instance, with
the Panama Canal Treaty vote, a very
difficult political undertaking, the most
difficult political assignment I have ever
had, even including my campaign for the
Presidency itself. And when I asked for
your help to strengthen the reputation of
our own country as the protector of hu-
man rights, to make sure that we had an
image that was accurate in Latin America
and around the world of treating other
people as equals, of trying to strengthen
our ties with the small, weak, developing
nations, to be fair in dealing with the
small nation of Panama, you added your
strength and your support and your voice
to a proposition that doesn't directly help
you with your income or with your life,
perhaps, as an American citizen. But be-
cause you wanted our Nation to be great
in all respects, you came forward and gave
me your support. And I know that you're
doing the same thing to support our efforts
to have a SALT agreement, to remove the
threat of nuclear war from the world.
You are strengthening our effort here
and in other parts of the world for human
rights. You're interested in having a com-
prehensive energy bill passed through the
1064
