Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Angel as I did with Rosalynn and Amy.
Ken, I thank you for what you've done for
all of us.
And I think one of the great statesmen
of our Nation, a man who with his sin-
cere, quiet logic, cooled the almost frantic
searching for truth in our country during
the years of the previous administration,
a man who has transformed the Demo-
cratic Party in Maine because of his in-
tegrity and competence, and a man who's
now completely recovered, ready to go to
work with me back in Washington, Ed
Muskie. Ed, thank you very much for
being here.
Senator Hathaway announced earlier
today that I had approved the emergency
declaration for Maine. And I want to ex-
press my thanks as President to him as
Senator for making this announcement
for me [laughter]-earlier today.
I think in the coastal region where you
have been so severely hurt, I think again
it's a tribute to the strength of the Maine
people that you've come through so well.
You've been able to bear this kind of
physical hardship, and I'm sure it's
brought your people closer together.
I would like to say a few words about
Bill Hathaway. If there ever was a tena-
cious and aggressive fighter for his own
State, it's Senator Bill Hathaway. He is
willing to address difficult questions. He
always keeps in the forefront of his mind
what's best for his people back home. And
at the same time, he occupies a remark-
ably important series of positions in the
U.S. Senate. As a member of the Finance
Committee and the Subcommittee on En-
ergy, he deals with one of the most crucial
questions of our country. And I know that
everyone who lives in New England, par-
ticularly Maine, recognizes that the con-
sumers' interest and our Nation's interest
must be protected.
At the same time, the second most im-
portant issue that we face this year, do-
mestically speaking, is our economic prob-
lems. And he's the leader of the subcom-
mittee responsible for economic problems,
for employment, for tax reform. And it's
remarkable how, with his own capability
and quiet attention to detail and legisla-
tion in the Senate, he's acquired those re-
sponsibilities so early.
He's responsible for revenue sharing,
and as you know, this again has been a
very, very important panacea for us to
strengthen the ties between the Federal
Government and the State governments.
He's also a man of compassion, which I
think is important because that's an ele-
ment of leadership that never changes.
Other issues come and go, but a close,
sensitive attention to those who suffer in
our society is the mark of a great leader
and a great statesman. He's been partic-
ularly interested in trying to alleviate the
problems that result from drug addiction
and from alcoholism. And he's been par-
ticularly concerned about the treatment
for those millions of Americans who suf-
fer. He's also extended this one genera-
tion in the future, because he's made a
special study of the adverse effect on in-
fant children of alcoholism in their
mother during the time of pregnancy.
He's interested in our national security.
He's been especially singled out for honor
by serving on the Senate committee on
intelligence and I don't think there's any
more sensitive area in the whole Federal
Government than the special committee
on the intelligence community in the
U.S. Senate. That's a small group
of carefully chosen leaders who are
extremely trustworthy, because in their
hands and in their minds are placed the
utmost sensitive secrets about our inter-
relationship with foreign governments.
And they are also trusted, along with the
President, the CIA, and the Defense De-
342
