Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
This legislation will remove any age
limit on employment in the Federal Gov-
ernment. And we hope this will be a good
example for the rest of the Nation to
emulate. And it also extends the age of
protection against discrimination from 65
up to 70 in the public sector, in the pri-
vate sector. We are encouraging State
and local governments to follow the lead
of the Federal Government.
And we also have initiated two major
studies to assess the impact of this legis-
lation, perhaps leading to further revi-
sions in the future.
Special needs have been accommo-
dated, and I want to congratulate all those
who are assembled behind me for their
good work.
There's one person here who is not yet
a Member of Congress, who might very
well be in the future, who gave some
sterling testimony in urging the
of
passage
this legislation, and that's Kathryn
Morse. She was Amy's age-10 years
old-when she gave her testimony, which
was very effective, all the Members of the
Congress tell me. And she's now 11 years
old, rapidly approaching the time of re-
tirement [laughter]—as am I and all of
you.
I think her testimony vividly demon-
strates that this legislation is not just ben-
eficial to those who've already retired or
who are already 65 years old, but it's ben-
eficial to people my age and even to peo-
ple who are the age of Kathryn and Amy.
It's a good step in the right direction,
and I'm very proud now to sign into law
House bill 5383, which provides fairness
and equity in protecting our older citizens
from discrimination in employment.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
I know that everybody would like to
make a statement today, but I would like
to call upon the man who arranged for
me to meet with a special committee on
this legislation and who's been in the fore-
front in his public activities and who will
soon reach the age where this legislation
applies to, although he's immune in the
Congress, and now in the Federal Gov-
ernment, and that's Senator Claude
Pepper.
REPRESENTATIVE PEPPER. Thank you
very much, Mr. President. This is a happy
day for all of us, and we're sure it is for
you because of your long commitment to
the cause of the elderly.
We want to thank you and Mrs. Carter
for all that you've done to bring about this
happy event that we are celebrating here
today. It's a day of elation for many mil-
lions of our fellow citizens, because when
this bill becomes effective, they know that
when Providence blesses them with their
65th birthday, it shall not be a death day
for the end of their working life; they can
continue to work and contribute to their
country.
From the dedication that you have and
so long cherished, and that of the Con-
gress, as evidenced by its action in this
matter, we know that the elderly of this
country can look forward to more occa-
sions when you and the Congress will rec-
ognize the needs of the elderly of this
country and provide even more perfectly
for their health and happiness, for their
contributing to the growth and greatness
of our country.
So, it's a happy day for the elderly. We
thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Claude Pepper, like
my mother, is much younger than I am
and seems to grow younger every day.
[Laughter]
Senator Pete Williams, would you say a
word?
SENATOR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr.
President. It's another happy occasion
here. We are making progress. Our Com-
mittee of Human Resources in the Senate,
699
