Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
showing that the substitution problem,
which limits the usefulness of public serv-
ice employment when Federal dollars are
used to replace local funds, is not as seri-
ous as had previously been feared.
To reduce substitution, I am encour-
aging the use of a special project approach
which, according to recent evidence, has
been successful in meeting this problem.
I am also proposing strict limits on the
use of these funds to support higher-wage
public employment.
This new bill takes further steps to
target jobs on those most in need and
sharply limit substitution.
In order to target more effectively, I
am recommending that funds given out
under the CETA system be used only for
the economically disadvantaged-defined
as those whose family income is no greater
than 70 percent of the Bureau of Labor
Statistics' lower-income family budget
standard. I am also recommending that
young people whose parents claimed them
as income tax deductions in the previous
year include their parents' income in es-
tablishing their eligibility for the current
year.
This year, I propose that we demon-
strate the jobs component of my welfare
reform proposal by creating 50,000 posi-
tions in selected cities. Beginning in Fiscal
1980, with the passage of the welfare re-
form bill, we will increase the structural
unemployment program until it can ac-
commodate the 1.4 million people I an-
ticinate will be served in the welfare re-
form plan. That should ensure that, for
every family containing children and
parents who want to work, there will be
a job. Most families containing an em-
ployable person will see their income rise
substantially above the poverty line.
The purpose of the Public Service Em-
ployment program will remain what it
has been to provide useful jobs. For
example:
-Major parks in urban centers, such
as Boston, that were once abandoned to
overgrowth and vandalism have been re-
claimed for the enjoyment of the public.
-In North Carolina, elderly people
are being cared for, in their homes, by
public service employment workers, rath-
er than being forced to leave home and
spend their last years in expensive, some-
times-impersonal nursing homes.
-In Portland, Oregon, CETA workers
install locks, window grates and other se-
curity devices in the homes of senior
citizens and low-income families living in
high-crime areas.
-In Memphis, workers are building
ramps for the handicapped in five areas
of the city used heavily by the handi-
capped and elderly.
-In Humboldt County, California,
CETA workers help to staff day care cen-
ters serving low-income families.
-In Worthington, Minnesota, workers
are providing home insulation and energy
conservation assistance to low-income
households in a four-county area.
As the economy improves, employment
and training programs should shift their
emphasis from creating jobs in the public
sector to providing training and finding
jobs in the private sector.
To help place CETA participants in
private-sector jobs, to provide an oppor-
tunity for cooperation between the local
CETA programs and the private sector,
and to tap the goodwill and commitment
of private-sector businessmen, large and
small, as well as labor leaders, I am ask-
ing Congress for authority to establish a
new Private Sector Employment Initia-
tive, under a new Title VII. In the
budget, I have set aside $400 million for
this activity in 1979.
Private Industry Councils-made up of
representatives of large and small busi-
nesses and union organizations—will be
responsible for developing on-the-job
392
