June 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
South. We've spoken with a voice on this
basic issue that's too timid.
I was pleased this morning to read in
the New York Times the absolutely beau-
tiful resolution passed by the Southern
Baptist Convention concerning human
rights. But the passage of a resolution is
not enough, unless we as individuals reach
out in our own community, in our Nation,
around the world, to detect and to destroy
those elements of life which still inter-
fere with the realization of those hopes
and dreams of people who are afflicted
and deprived.
I hope that our country never again
turns its back because of convenience or
embarrassment as we did when millions
of Jews lost their lives in the Holocaust
during the Second World War. Of course,
this is just one example, and in my office
at the White House, I have to deal with
many domestic problems, many other
international problems: peace, freedom,
nuclear explosives, the sale of weapons,
terrorism, rapidly expanding populations
without food. But this is more than a list
of political problems. These are also for
you and me moral problems, because they
violate the very precepts of God in which
we believe.
Reinhold Niebuhr, in his book "Moral
Man and Immoral Society," pointed out
the difference between a society and
people. The expectations and demands
on a person are a much higher standard.
A person should have as our goal com-
plete agape love. The most we can ex-
pect from a society is to institute simple
justice.
So, we as people have to be better, par-
ticularly if we are blessed with the oppor-
tunity to demonstrate our worth. Leaders
also have to be careful not to be too timid.
Sometimes we are reluctant to deal
with a complicated issue or a contentious
issue; controversy scares us. There's no
doubt in my mind that adopting a com-
mitment for a bold mission program is
fraught with difficulties and the prospect
of failure, and no one likes to fail be-
cause you bring upon yourself, if you
obviously fail, a bad reputation, derision,
scorn, embarrassment. And sometimes
the best way to avoid failure is not to try
very hard, not to be in the center of a
noble effort, or to quit soon enough so
you will not be associated in the end with
disappointment.
I want our country to be preeminent
in many ways, not just preeminent in
military might but preeminent in those
characteristics of which we can all be
proud after careful scrutiny. I want our
country to be strong enough in all these
elements, military and otherwise, so we
never have to prove we are strong.
As you know, a person who is strong
and knows it can then afford not to prove
it and can be gentle and fair and patient
and understanding and generous.
When I leave here in a few minutes
I'll go to Panama to exchange documents
of ratification of the new treaties con-
cerning the canal, which the Senate has
passed now with more than a two-thirds
vote.
This has been a difficult issue, but our
Nation has spoken, and we've shown that
we are strong, powerful, but we are also
generous, we are also fair, we treat other
people as equals.
We know that our security is bound up
with that of others. We cannot any more
depend upon the isolation of friendly
neighbors and deep oceans. And we can-
not any more depend upon a dominant
military force, which we did have a few
years ago, with a monopoly on nuclear
weapons.
So, we cannot ignore others because we
are isolated. We cannot dominate others
any more because we are strong. We have
a new opportunity, a new responsibility.
And how we handle this changing factor
1116
