Jan. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
justice within and among nations. We call
on an inter-dependent community of na-
tions to work together to protect and nur-
ture the common heritage of our planet's
resources and environment.
We declare that war is not an accept-
able means to settle political disputes.
Our countries will do their utmost to re-
solve disputes with others amicably and,
within the framework of the United Na-
tions, to help in resolving the disputes of
others.
The spectre of war has hung over the
world for too long. Existing stockpiles of
nuclear weapons must be reduced and
eventually eliminated, and the danger of
proliferation of nuclear weapons must be
arrested. Further, every effort must be
made progressively to reduce conven-
tional arms and to redirect the productive
forces so released to the betterment of
mankind. We commit ourselves to work
towards these ends.
Beyond the realms of politics and eco-
nomics, the world today affords opportu-
nities for freer and fuller intellectual and
scientific exchanges. Freedom of ideas and
the promotion of cultural and artistic in-
terplay, in a world where the mind is
without fear, can create an environment
where tolerance and understanding can
flourish.
Beyond the traditional ideas of state-
craft, Indians and Americans recognize
an obligation to themselves and to others
that ends can never justify evil means.
Nations, like individuals, are morally re-
sponsible for their actions.
New Delhi: January 3, 1978
JIMMY CARTER
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
Remarks of the President and King Khalid
bin Abd al-Aziz Al-Sa'ud at the Welcoming
Ceremony. January 3, 1978
THE KING. Mr. President, I welcome
Your Excellency in our country as a great
friend, and I thank you for your efforts
to find a just and lasting solution for the
problem of the Middle East. I wish Your
Excellency a pleasant stay in this friendly
country and success in your trip and com-
mendable endeavors.
Thank you.
elkum.
THE PRESIDENT. Alsalamu
Peace be unto you. The primary purpose
of my trip and this visit is peace.
The first meeting between the leaders
of Saudi Arabia and the United States
of America was when President Franklin
Roosevelt came to the Gulf of Suez to
meet with King Abd al-Aziz. This friend-
ship has now grown to encompass the
millions of people in our two nations. We
work together now, and we plan together
for the future. The ties which bind us to-
gether are strong and unbreakable.
Although our time here is all too brief,
I have already learned much from Crown
Prince Fahd, Prince Saud, and other lead-
ers from Saudi Arabia who have recently
visited me in my own country. Now I am
glad to meet with Your Majesty for close
consultation on matters of great mutual
interest to our people.
As Your Majesty has already said, a
most important subject which will be dis-
cussed is the early achievement of a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East.
I recall the traditional Arabic welcome,
President of the United States of Ahlan wa sahlan. It is beautiful and sim-
America
MORARJI DESAI
Prime Minister of India
ple. And my understanding is that it
means, “You are among your own people,
and your steps will be unhindered." See-
NOTE: The text of the declaration was released ing the generosity of this welcome, I feel
at New Delhi, India.
18
