Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
differences that still exist in the Horn of
Africa. And the OAU, and the United
Nations is a proper forum through which
we and the Soviet Union, Great Britain,
and other great countries can act from
outside Africa to help give aid and sup-
port in the resolution of differences. And,
of course, on a bilateral basis we can help
economically and with trade and a com-
mon understanding.
I'm very grateful to have an opportu-
nity to come and meet with these leaders
of a great country and to learn from them
and to help shape the policies of my own
Government and to educate my own peo-
ple and myself so that we can, with
greater dispatch, more enthusiasm, and
sounder judgment, remain involved
deeply in the growth and prosperity to
peace and a better life that is inevitable in
the future for the people of Africa.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:58 p.m. in
the Independence Hall at the Federal Palace
Hotel.
Lagos, Nigeria
Joint Communique Issued at the Conclusion
of Meetings Between the President and
General Obasanjo. April 2, 1978
At the invitation of His Excellency Lt.
General Olusegun Obasanjo, Head of the
Federal Military Government, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, His Excellency Jimmy Carter, and
Mrs. Carter paid a State Visit to Nigeria
from 31st March to 3rd April, 1978. This
visit reciprocated the visit to the United
States of America by the Head of the
Federal Military Government from 11th
to 13th October, 1977. It was the first
State Visit by an American President to
sub-Saharan Africa, providing President
Carter an opportunity to witness first-
hand the aspirations, achievements and
problems of contemporary Africa.
In the course of the visit, the two Heads
of State met in plenary sessions during
which they discussed bilateral and inter-
national issues.
President Carter and his host, Lt. Gen-
eral Obasanjo, examined extensively the
current state of affairs in the African
region and devoted particular attention
to the situation in Southern Africa.
They were fully agreed on the need for
peace and stability in Africa and ex-
pressed the hope that a spirit of reconcili-
ation will prevail in those areas of North-
West Africa and in the Horn of Africa
that are still victims of fratricidal
conflicts.
President Carter expressed satisfaction
with Nigeria's efforts in its capacity as
Chairman of the OAU Good Offices
Commission to restore peace between
Ethiopia and Somalia. It was agreed that
Nigeria should persevere in its efforts to
get the parties in the dispute to negotiate
a mutually acceptable and therefore dur-
able solution. With the fighting in the
Horn of Africa now ended, the two
leaders expressed the hope that the re-
maining problems in that region will be
settled by peaceful means.
On Zimbabwe, the two Heads of State
expressed support for the Anglo-Ameri-
can proposal and reiterated their convic-
tion that, in the present circumstances,
only a settlement which is based on its
principles can bring about racial har-
mony, prosperity and just and lasting
peace in Zimbabwe. The two Heads of
State agreed that the arrangements made
under the
the Salisbury Agreement of
March 3 do not change the illegal char-
acter of the present regime and are un-
acceptable as they do not guarantee a
genuine transfer of power to the majority
664
