Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
total embargo against them and not ship
them any food, not ship them any weap-
ons, not ship them any spare parts for
the weapons they've got. And I've made
that clear.
very
So, I believe that we won't have to face
that prospect. If we do, with our reserve
supplies and other supplies of oil from
non-Middle East countries, we can get by.
We also, obviously, have large sup-
plies of coal and natural gas that can be
substituted with hardship, but we could
get along.
Let me say one other thing before
I have to leave. This session has been very
helpful to me. It's a very enjoyable thing
for a President to get out of Washington.
And I forgot to tell that to the second
grade. But to come back and visit with
friends who took me in when I was a
lonely, unknown candidate is a very fine
experience for me as President. And I
thank you for it. You've had some very
challenging, very difficult questions. I
don't claim to know all the answers. And
part of my answers have not been ade-
quate for the questions that you've asked.
But I really appreciate your hospitality
here.
And I would just like to remind you
of one thing in closing: We do have prob-
lems, economically, politically, sometimes
we've been embarrassed with our govern-
ment officials' actions. But we're still the
strongest nation on Earth. We're still the
best nation on Earth. We're still the great-
est nation on Earth. And I think all of us
would serve ourselves and our country
well to think about the good things and
the positive things and the tremendous
future that we have as Americans.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:03 p.m. at
the Bangor Auditorium.
Following the town meeting, the President
spent the night at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Murray of Bangor.
Nashua, New Hampshire
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting With New Hampshire
High School Students. February 18, 1978
MAYOR AREL. Mr. President, Senator Mc-
Intyre, Senator Durkin, members of the
Board of Aldermen, students, ladies and
gentlemen:
My name is Maurice Arel, and as
mayor of Nashua, it is my pleasure to
welcome all of you to our city for today's
historic New Hampshire town meeting.
We in Nashua have been visited by
Presidents of the United States before,
but never before have so many of our
citizens had a chance to share their views
with the Nation's Chief Executive.
So we are proud, Mr. President. We
are proud not only that you are here, but
that you have come to meet in a special
open forum with the people of New
Hampshire.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can think of
no more appropriate person to introduce
the President than our own senior United
States Senator, Thomas J. McIntyre.
While serving New Hampshire for more
than 15 years in Washington, Tom Mc-
Intyre has come to represent the essence
of the New England town meeting tra-
dition-an honest, open, courteous way
of doing business.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's my pleasure
to present to you United States Senator
Tom McIntyre.
SENATOR MCINTYRE. Mr. President,
Senator Durkin, ladies and gentlemen,
students and teachers, special guests and
dignitaries:
Today we welcome Jimmy Carter back
to New Hampshire. In a sense his visit is
a homecoming, for it was just 2 years ago
this month that the voters of our State
provided the first indication that he would
win the Presidency some 10 months later.
364
