Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
Governor on one hand, local
one hand, local officials,
schoolteachers, colleges, county Demo-
cratic Party officials who are loyal, con-
gressional delegations, the President, to
make sure that we get the best out of our
system of federalism, with which God has
blessed us; a man who can work in har-
mony, not in a disputatious or combative
way, because the people don't like to see
division and sharp disagreements among
public officials who serve them. It might
make the headlines and the press might
be intrigued with it, but what the people
want, who are not particularly interested
in politics but just want their services to
be filled, is someone who can bridge a gap
and not create a gap.
I think Mike Bakalis is that kind of a
person. I would say in this day and age in
our country there is a real concern about
distrust of government by people. How
can we have good service, at the same
time be treated fairly, have our children
lead a better life, even than the one we
have, not have our government run un-
controlled and waste our taxpayers'
money? These are questions difficult to
resolve.
And if I were seeking for a perfect
Governor of Illinois, I would want a man
whose background and experience could
guarantee that that is his qualification
and his attitude.
There's not a more self-sacrificial com-
mitment that I know than a bright young
person who volunteers, when he begins his
life, to be an elementary school teacher
and to teach high school and later to be
responsible for the educational system of
a great State. It's a thankless job. And
particularly during the years when Mike
Bakalis filled this responsibility, because
that was in a transition phase when quite
often mayors and Governors, Members of
Congress were reluctant to accommodate
social change and to deal with the difficult
question of caring for children—some of
whom were black, some of whom were
white-but to educate us, were on the cut-
ting edge of making changes that have
benefited us all, it took not just dedica-
tion and unselfishness and knowledge and
high training but it took a sensitivity
and a compassion that this man has
exemplified.
I think it's important, too, that there
be a close relationship between a public
servant and people who still have to work
for a living. A lot of us have been blessed
by God with high achievement and a
sound and secure economic status and a
predictable job opportunity that we don't
have to worry about every day, and we
are socially prominent and we are politi-
cally influential. If our children get in
trouble with the law, the chances are that
we can go to the judge and in a com-
pletely proper way say, “Judge, I have a
good family and my boy has made a mis-
take. And I hope that you will let him not
go to prison. It would destroy his life; let
us be responsible for him."
The chances are the judge would do
right and say okay. But someone who
does not enjoy our standards, who might
be very poor or illiterate or from a di-
vided family, or the father unemployed
or black or who can't speak English well,
the same judge, with the same open
heart and the same dedication to justice,
might say I don't think we can trust this
young person who's made a mistake to go
back into that family home.
So, I think that a public servant has got
to know from experience how to deal not
only with students in the classroom but
with their families back home and say,
"How can we correct the defects that exist
in our great country and give those de-
pendent people who want to share our
blessings an opportunity to do so, not with
a government handout, but with a chance
to work, to have some self-respect, to feel
like they are equal in a country that's
997
