Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
the provisions governing the deductions
of losses on stock held in small companies.
Vigorous business investment will help
ease inflationary pressure by averting ca-
pacity shortages that might otherwise oc-
cur as our economy continues to grow.
The $2 billion reduction in telephone ex-
cise taxes and employer payroll taxes
should provide additional relief from in-
flation by reducing costs and prices. These
tax measures, applied in conjunction with
other anti-inflation policies announced in
my Economic Report, will support the ob-
jective of reducing and containing the
rate of inflation.
The combination of these tax cuts and
needed business tax reforms will result in
a tax system that meets the needs of the
broad spectrum of U.S. businesses more
efficiently and equitably.
A detailed description of my program
follows.
RECOMMENDATIONS TO REDUCE TAXES
AND SIMPLIFY RETURNS FOR THE Av-
ERAGE TAXPAYER
Tax Reductions for Individuals
Individual taxes will be reduced
through across-the-board rate cuts and
substitution of a single $240 personal
credit for the existing personal exemption
and alternative general credits. This tax
relief will be reflected in decreased with-
holding rates for employees as of October
1, 1978.
The tax reductions I am now recom-
mending do not include adjustments for
Congressional action on the National En-
ergy Plan. In April, I proposed that Con-
gress pass the crude oil equalization tax
and rebate the proceeds to the American
people on a per capita basis. This course
is essential if we are to protect the real
incomes of consumers. If the final energy
bill includes a full rebate of the net pro-
ceeds of the crude oil tax, no further
action on my part will be required. How-
ever, if the final bill contains a rebate pro-
vision only for 1978-as provided in the
House version-I intend to send a supple-
mental message to Congress recommend-
ing that the individual tax reductions
proposed in this Message be increased by
the net proceeds of the crude oil tax.
(1) Rate Cuts. The proposed rate
schedule will range from a lowest bracket
of 12 percent to a top bracket of 68 per-
cent, compared with the current 14 to 70
percent range. As under current law, the
top rate bracket will apply with respect to
income in excess of $200,000 for joint re-
turns and $100,000 for single returns. The
entire schedules are set forth in Tables 11
and 12. This new rate structure will, in
and of itself, increase the overall progres-
sivity of the individual income tax be-
cause the cuts are proportionately larger
in the low and middle-income brackets.
(2) Per Capita Tax Credit. The tax
benefits for dependents currently favor
the wealthy over persons with modest in-
comes. A taxpayer is now entitled to a
$750 exemption for each family member
in addition to a general tax credit, which
is equal to the greater of $35 per family
member or 2 percent of the first $9,000
of taxable income. The net effect of the
complicated series of exemptions and
credits is this: a family of four in the 50
percent tax bracket enjoys a tax savings
of $1,680 for dependents while families
earning $10,000 save about one-third of
that amount.
I propose that the existing exemption
and general credits be replaced with a sin-
gle credit of $240 per family member.
Unlike the current structure, the new
credit will provide the same benefit at all
income levels; for a family with four
members, the per capita credit will be
worth $960 whether that family is middle
class or wealthy. The $240 credit will en-
163
