Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Saturday, January 7, 1978
New Delhi, India
Remarks of the President and President N. S.
Reddy at the Welcoming Ceremony.
January 1, 1978
PRESIDENT REDDY. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, Excellencies, ladies and gentle-
men:
It gives me great pleasure to welcome
President and Mrs. Carter and the very
distinguished guests on this New Year's
Day.
The year just ended saw a new burst of
faith and vitality in our two democracies.
The year which begins today will, we
hope, open a new chapter in our relations.
Our people were greatly enthused at
the visit last year of your mother, Mrs.
Lillian Carter, and especially at her abid-
ing interest in the little community of
Vikhroli, which she served with great
dedication some years ago.
Today in welcoming you, we welcome
not only the President of the United States
but also a great humanist, a man of ideals,
and one who has brought to international
politics the nobility of moral imperatives.
Much has happened in our two coun-
tries since the last visit of an American
President to India. It is a happy coin-
cidence that governments in Washington
and New Delhi changed almost at the
same time. Shared values in terms of de-
mocracy and the dignity of the individual
have worked for a free and easy dialog be-
tween the people and the governments of
our two countries.
As mature, independent nations our
countries have had differences in priorities
and policies, which have often clouded
the common ideals and deep affinities
which bind us. Neither of our countries
has been indifferent to the great chal-
lenges which confront the world as a
whole. We believe that our goals are the
same a world of peace, justice, and lib-
erty for individuals and nations.
The United States has long interested
itself and cooperated with us in our own
developmental balance. We believe that
a closer and more confident relationship
can be of mutual benefit and in turn con-
tribute to serve the cause of building
bridges of cooperation between the devel-
oped and developing countries.
We hope, Mr. President, that this visit,
however short, will provide an opportu-
nity for frank and free discussions and be-
come a catalyst for establishing a clear
rapport and understanding between the
leaders of our two governments.
But even this brief visit will, I am con-
fident, give you an opportunity to get a
feel of the warmth of friendship which the
people of India have for the people of the
United States.
On behalf of the people and govern-
ment of India and on my own behalf,
1
