Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
My first impression on leaving Air
Force One, my plane, was the extreme
friendship exhibited to me by the leaders
who are assembled at this table. It was a
remarkable expression of deference and
respect on your part for the country I
represent. When all your ministers, many
of the members of your Parliament, and
the diplomatic corps came to meet us, and
the beautiful words that you expressed,
Mr. President, to me then, will always be
cherished in my heart.
On the drive into the city from the
airport, the overwhelming welcome that
I received from the hundreds of thou-
sands of Indian citizens assembled on the
side of the road was indeed a remarkable
experience for me. There was a genuine
expression of happiness and good will
and friendship on their faces, and their
raised hands and smiles made me feel,
indeed, that I was welcome.
I also had a sense of belonging. I didn't
feel that I was in an alien land. I think
the reason for this is that my family has
grown to respect and to love India in
the last 10 years. When my mother was
68 years old, she became a member of the
Peace Corps and requested that she be
sent to India. She is a registered nurse,
and she worked in a small clinic in a vil-
lage of Vikhroli, just north of Bombay.
One of the reasons that she requested
India-perhaps the most important
reason was her awareness of what your
nation represents as expressed by the
commitment and the courage and the
humility of Mahatma Gandhi.
So, our family, although this is my first
visit, has felt a part of your life. When
your former great President Ahmed died,
President Ahmed died,
I had just become President of our coun-
try. And my mother and my son, who has
the same name as I, came to represent
the United States during that sorrowful
time. So I felt a sense of belonging this
afternoon.
In the presence of the members of your
Parliament, the welcome that I received
there, the attention that was given to my
words, a sense of political ties was very
strong. Again, I felt that I was in a place
which shared commitments and not in a
strange place where the form of govern-
ment was unknown to me; a sense of de-
mocracy, a sense that everyone in that
assembly hall indeed represented the peo-
ple of India was something very similar to
a person who has served in the govern-
ment in our own country as well.
I had a thought this morning, too,
about the beauty of India, as I stood at
the memorial to Gandhi. This is a lovely
time of year. And the flowers are bursting
forth. I walked for an hour or so this
afternoon in the Mortal Garden outside
this palace and was impressed by the
quietness and a sense of peace, and even
in your busy streets and alongside the
highways there is a sense of inward beauty
among the people, a sense of inward
peace in their hearts, and also outward
beauty in your buildings, in your trees,
and in your flowers.
I also felt a common purpose with you
in the principles which we all represent:
freedom of speech, a free press, a right to
criticize, a right to disagree, open debate,
issues thoroughly discussed, changes wel-
comed, even in a nation which is ancient
in its customs and in its traditions.
We share a common measurement of
greatness, not power or pomp or cere-
mony or uniforms or outward show of
greatness, but we recognize that great-
ness is present when the least of those in
our nations are treated well and cared
for, when their afflictions are eased, and
when they have food and education and a
healthy life.
I also, Mr. President, shared your words
a few moments ago in a hunger for peace,
not only in individuals but as a nation and
as leaders in the world.
15
