May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Major changes to improve the 1980
process will emphasize the development
and study of minimum program levels,
eliminate unnecessary paperwork, and
broaden the involvement of managers.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the 13-page report entitled "Assessment
of the First Year of Zero-Base Budgeting."
International Health Program
Statement Announcing a Program To
Strengthen U.S. Participation. May 2, 1978
We in the United States enjoy one of
the highest standards of health in the
world. Infectious diseases are no longer a
major cause of death, and most Ameri-
cans take for granted that their children
will reach healthy adulthood. This is not
true in many other parts of the world.
Each year, more than 15.5 million chil-
dren, nearly all of them in the developing
countries, die before they reach the age of
5. Hundreds of millions of people are af-
flicted by such diseases as malaria, lep-
rosy, and schistosomiasis, diseases which
are unfamiliar to most Americans but
which exact a terrible toll in human suf-
fering and wasted productive potential.
As many as 40 million people suffer some
form of blindness-a truly global problem
that is largely preventable and often
reversible.
No nation can any longer view these
tragic conditions as someone else's prob-
lem. In a world growing more interde-
pendent day by day, we increasingly share
each other's distress and dangers, as well
as the fruits of mankind's successes.
Late last month, the World Health
Organization confirmed that we appear to
be in the final stage of the eradication of
smallpox; no case has been reported any-
where in the world in the last 6 months.
This historic accomplishment shows what
can be achieved when nations cooperate
with deep commitment.
My administration is dedicated to sup-
porting programs which help people meet
their basic human needs. The United
States, in partnership with international
organizations and with other countries,
must develop a truly international pro-
gram to improve worldwide health, nutri-
tion, and family planning. We have a
long history of shared effort with other
nations in the field of health, and we
plan to build on the solid record we have
established.
Consistent with the announced ex-
pansion of foreign aid, and our effort to
focus that aid on the poorest of the
world's people, my administration has un-
dertaken a review of international health
needs. Our aim was to determine the most
effective ways in which the U.S. Govern-
ment and private organizations could
help reduce the personal and economic
impact of widespread malnutrition, in-
fectious diseases, and other health haz-
ards, including those associated with fre-
quent childbirth.
As a result of that study, I am announc-
ing today my intention to launch a pro-
gram to strengthen the participation of
the United States in worldwide efforts to
overcome disease and ill health.
Our efforts will be based on the fol-
lowing principles:
-A basic minimum level of health, nu-
trition, and family planning services
should be available to the world's poor,
whether they live in rural areas or urban
slums.
-Developing nations can eventually
meet their own health needs if we assist
them in strengthening their institutions
and building their own health systems.
-Community-based primary health
care, including the use of community re-
816
