June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
junction with matching grants for water
resources planning.
• Working with Governors to create a
Task Force of Federal, State, county, city
and other local officials to continue to ad-
dress water-related problems. The admin-
istrative actions and legislative proposals
in this Message are designed to initiate
sound water management policy at the
national level. However, the Federal gov-
ernment must work closely with the
States, and with local governments as
well, to continue identifying and examin-
ing water-related problems and to help
implement the initiatives I am announc-
ing today. This Task Force will be a con-
tinuing guide as we implement the water
policy reforms and will ensure that the
State and local role in our Nation's water
policy is constant and meaningful.
• An instruction to Federal agencies to
work promptly and expeditiously to in-
ventory and quantify Federal reserved
and Indian water rights. In several areas
of the country, States have been unable to
allocate water because these rights have
not been determined. This quantification
effort should focus first on high priority
areas, should involve close consultation
with the States and water users and
should emphasize negotiations rather than
litigation wherever possible.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Water is a basic requirement for human
survival, is necessary for economic growth
and prosperity, and is fundamental to
protecting the natural environment. Ex-
isting environmental statutes relating to
water and water projects generally are
adequate, but these laws must be con-
sistently applied and effectively enforced
to achieve their purposes. Sensitivity to
environmental protection must be an im-
portant aspect of all water-related plan-
ning and management decisions. I am
particularly concerned about the need to
improve the protection of instream flows
and to evolve careful management of our
nation's precious groundwater supplies,
which are threatened by depletion and
contamination.
My initiatives in this area include the
following:
• A directive to the Secretary of the
Interior and other Federal agency heads
to implement vigorously the Fish and
Wildlife Coordination Act, the Historic
Preservation Act and other environmen-
tal statutes. Federal agencies will prepare
formal implementing procedures for the
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act and
other statutes where appropriate. Af-
fected agencies will prepare reports on
compliance with environmental statutes
on a project-by-project basis for inclusion
in annual submissions to the Office of
Management and Budget.
A directive to agency heads requir-
ing them to include designated funds for
environmental mitigation in water proj-
ect appropriation requests to provide for
concurrent and proportionate expendi-
ture of mitigation funds.
• Accelerated implementation of Ex-
ecutive Order No. 11988 on floodplain
management. This Order requires agen-
cies to protect floodplains and to reduce
risks of flood losses by not conducting,
supporting or allowing actions in flood-
plains unless there are no practicable
alternatives. Agency implementation is
behind schedule and must be expedited.
• A directive to the Secretaries of
Army, Commerce, Housing and Urban
Development and Interior to help reduce
flood damages through acquisition of
flood-prone land and property, where
consistent with primary program pur-
poses.
• A directive to the Secretary of Agri-
culture to encourage more effective soil
and water conservation through water-
1050
