Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the Congress recognizes the seriousness of
our energy problem and will act ex-
peditiously on this program early this year.
Securing passage of an acceptable energy
bill -one which is fair to consumers, pro-
vides needed energy savings, and is pru-
dent from a fiscal and budgetary stand-
point-will continue as our highest and
most urgent national priority in 1978.
Energy Statutes and Actions
We have already begun to lay a strong
foundation for implementation of a na-
tional energy policy. In 1977 we took
steps to put in place important policies
and structural reforms needed to meet our
energy goals:
-Creation of a new Department of
Energy which combines, for the first time,
major governmental functions of energy
research, regulation, pricing policy, in-
formation collection and dissemination,
and overall policy development. Without
a strong organization, we would not hope
to implement a comprehensive national
policy.
-Congress has approved our proposed
route for a pipeline to bring natural gas
from the North Slope of Alaska to the
lower 48 states.
-Passage of the Emergency Natural
Gas Act to cope with the hardships of last
winter's freeze and assure that high prior-
ity gas users were not cut off during sup-
ply emergencies.
-Funding of more than $4 billion to
store the first 500 million barrels of oil in
a strategic petroleum reserve. We have al-
ready begun to fill that reserve, and we
remain committed to a 1 billion barrel
strategic reserve by 1985.
Outer Continental Shelf Legislation
Legislation to improve the management
of the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and
gas development is a major item of un-
finished business pending before Congress.
Prompt passage is necessary so that we can
have the benefit of the new law as we
move to open more offshore areas to de-
velopment and production. This bill man-
dates long-needed reforms in the leasing
program to provide for the necessary de-
velopment of offshore oil and gas while
enhancing competition among oil com-
panies, assuring that the public receives a
fair return for the sale of the public's oil
and gas resources, and protecting our ma-
rine and coastal resources.
Nuclear Energy
The United States has also advanced a
policy to prevent the proliferation of nu-
clear weapons around the world. An
International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evalua-
tion has been established with wide
international participation to examine
alternatives to existing proliferation-prone
technologies. In addition, legislation was
proposed last year to establish better con-
trols on export of nuclear fuels and tech-
nologies. We will work with Congress to
secure passage of that legislation early in
1978.
Our commitment to preventing the
spread of nuclear weapons has led us to
reorient our own domestic nuclear poli-
cies. I have deferred indefinitely the com-
mercial reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel
and plutonium recycling.
The Clinch River Plant itself would
waste more than $2 billion while teaching
us little that we do not already know, or
cannot learn from our existing nuclear
research and development program. I
have recommended that the Clinch River
Breeder Project be stopped, because it
represents a premature and unwise com-
mitment to commercialization of tech-
nology that we do not now need.
However, we intend to continue to de-
velop the nuclear energy the Nation needs.
114
