Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cooperate with one another and to obey region and the honoring of international
the laws of the United States.
I'm confident that with the support of
the miners and the coal owners, the mine
operators, and the American people, and
all public officials, that we can resolve
this dispute without further damage to
the well-being of our Nation.
SOMALI-ETHIOPIAN CONFLICT
I have another statement to make. Last
night, I was informed by President Siad
Barre of Somalia that he was agreeing to
withdraw his forces from the Ogaden
area, the occupied areas of Ethiopia, and
just the last few minutes, he confirmed
this commitment to me with a public
statement.
I welcome President Siad Barre's an-
nouncement of this decision. The United
States hopes that this decision will result
in an immediate halt of the bloodshed
in that area of the Horn of Africa. We
hope that the Organization of African
Unity can move quickly to assist all
parties to terminate hostilities, to agree
quickly on rules that can be observed so
that Somali forces can retire rapidly into
their own territory and to ensure that
peaceful conditions are restored among
the civilian population.
As soon as Somali forces have with-
drawn completely, and as soon as
Ethiopian forces have reestablished con-
trol over their own territory, withdrawal
of the Soviet and Cuban combat pres-
ence should begin.
The United States looks forward to
the complete withdrawal of all foreign
forces from the two countries, Ethiopia
and Somalia, at an early date. We stand
ready to assist the Organization of Afri-
can Unity in working out the basis
for negotiations between Ethiopia and
Somalia which would ensure the terri-
torial integrity of all countries in the
boundaries.
QUESTIONS
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO SOMALIA
Q. Mr. President, does that Somalia
announcement cause you to look any
more favorably on Somali requests for
American arms, assuming they go
through with it?
THE PRESIDENT. We notified Somalia
many months ago that as long as they
were in occupied territory, that there
would be no consideration on our part
for defensive arms of any kind. I think
it would require a tangible demonstra-
tion of the carrying out of this commit-
ment on the part of the Somalians, and
also a renewed commitment not to dis-
honor the international boundaries of
either Ethiopia or Kenya, before we
would be willing to discuss with them
economic aid or defensive arms supplies.
In this case, working with the Organi-
zation of African Unity and the Congress,
we would consider this in a routine man-
ner, but not until.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, there seem to be con-
flicting signals on what you would do if
miners do not return to work. Would you
consider seeking legislation to seize the
mines, or do you have any other alterna-
tives?
THE PRESIDENT. My firm belief and
my firm commitment is that the Taft-
Hartley Act will be enforced, that this
will be adequate to assure supplies of coal
to our country to avoid an additional
crisis, and that it will also be an adequate
incentive to bring the bargaining parties
back to the negotiating table for success-
ful resolution.
I have absolutely no plans to seek con-
gressional action authorizing seizure of
the coal mines.
490
