Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
cess to culture, with the right to live in
freedom, and also with the right to par-
ticipate in the management of all na-
tional affairs without discrimination. And
this also includes the right to have any
creed, either religious or philosophical.
We endeavor to respect such rights
fully, and we regard them as sacred. We
think that everything should be done and
no effort should be spared in order to
have those rights asserted in all countries,
so that they become a basis for equal
cooperation among all nations.
That is why we take a stand against
all wars and for disarmament, first of all
for nuclear disarmament. That is why
we believe that the world should cease to
be divided into opposing military blocs
and new relations should be built in a
world without military blocs.
That is why we stand for a political
solution in the Middle East. That is why
we welcomed President Sadat's initiative,
and now we are hopeful that his efforts
will and the others will lead to a just and
lasting peace in the area.
That is also the reason why we wish to
see new relations established in Europe
and the documents signed in Helsinki im-
plemented in full.
As there are more baskets than one, we
would wish that all should be imple-
mented, and more progress should be
made in particular on the military side of
it, considering that in Europe, where
many Americans of today have come
from, we have to deal with the highest
concentration of forces and modern
armaments.
You know Europe. You know Europe
is not such a big place, and little place is
now left for anything but arms. So, we
shall have to remove them to make place
for people. That is why, while giving at-
tention to the Third Basket, we should
also give more attention to military dis-
engagement and disarmament.
These are the same reasons why we sup-
port the liberation movements in Rho-
desia and Namibia and the majority in
South Africa, their right to be free, to de-
cide their own future, and to participate
in the management of their own affairs.
Finally, I shouldn't fail to mention the
fact that two-thirds of mankind are poor,
and one-third is relatively rich, because
not all are rich in that one-third. That
makes it necessary, in our view, to join
the efforts with these people, with the de-
veloping nations, in order to secure their
more rapid economic and social progress.
Without this we can hardly say that all
nations can enjoy the fruits of modern
civilization.
We would certainly welcome with great
satisfaction more active support from the
United States to the solution of these
worldwide problems, if more is done for
this two-thirds of mankind that live in
poverty. Of course, I have in mind not
only the United States but all developed
countries, all those who are able to take
action in order to bring new solutions to
the vital problems of mankind.
We know well that just a few countries,
even if they are as big as the United
States, cannot solve all these problems.
What is needed is for all peoples, all na-
tions to join their efforts in order to bring
about solutions that would be up to the
expectations and aspirations of all peo-
ple. I am convinced that despite the dif-
ficulties, that all the nations of the world
will be able to bring about new solutions
to the problems we are facing and to build
together a better world, a world with
more justice.
We wish that our visit here and our
talks together should help us identify new
fields for cooperation between Romania
and the United States, but at the same
time should provide new opportunities for
cooperation with a view to solving the
problems that confront humanity today.
742
