Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 22
the negotiations will
openness, the
resumed.
be
As I will be leaving your great country,
Mr. President, I will take with me the ex-
pressions of your friendship, of your hu-
manity, of your understanding of our
problems. We are very grateful to you.
Israel is a very small country. The United
States is a mighty world power. But there
are bonds which tie us together in under-
standing and friendship which derive
from our tradition, from our faith in
divine providence, from our love of lib-
erty, from our devotion to democracy.
These are the values which make life
worthwhile to live. And therefore, as we
say to each other from time to time, we
are not only friends, we are partners, we
are allies. And in this spirit, in the faith
that we shall continue our partnership for
peace, for liberty, for the welfare of our
peoples and of mankind, I take leave of
you, Mr. President, expressing my deep
gratitude for your hospitality, for your
warmth, and for your friendship.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
National Commission on the
Observance of International
Women's Year, 1975
Remarks at a Reception Honoring the
Commission. March 22, 1978
First of all, let me say that I'm very de-
lighted as President of the United States
to welcome you to the White House on
behalf of me and Rosalynn and the rest
of our family. Rosalynn and Judy and
Midge, three members of my family, at-
tended the Houston conference. And they
were delighted at the tremendous success
that
you ensured in bringing to the fore-
front of American consciousness the de-
termination and competence, idealism,
persistence, courage, sound judgment of
the women of our Nation.
It was potentially an explosive situation
and one that could have brought a great
deal of disharmony and discouragement
to those who have been in the forefront of
the fight for women's rights. But under
the superb leadership of Bella Abzug, and
with your help, the conference was a com-
plete success.
I want to be sure that I as President
and my entire Cabinet, the members of
my official and personal family, are suc-
cessful in keeping the spirit of Houston
alive.
I think the most crucial assignment
that falls on the shoulders of you and me
and all those I named is to ensure the
passage of the equal rights amendment,
which, as you know, is not going to be
easy. [Laughter]
The fervor and the commitment and
the success of even a conference so impor-
tant as the one at Houston is, compara-
tively speaking, a transient success. Even
if we implement through legislative act
and through governmental decision all
the points that you raised at Houston as
goals for accomplishment and fail in the
permanent amendment of the United
States Constitution, which will guarantee
women's rights, our success will not be
complete. And I believe that it's necessary
for us to redouble our efforts during the
coming 12 months.
I have asked my own domestic staff
under Stu Eizenstat, working closely with
Midge Costanza, with the members of my
Cabinet-Juanita Kreps, Pat Harris, Joe
Califano, Ray Marshall, and Brock
Adams, others have assigned their top
people ever since the Houston conference
was concluded-to begin implementa-
tion of the plan of action which you
completed.
553
