Apr. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
It was carefully drafted, and that's my
only statement on that subject, because
they are predicating their responses on
that specific statement. So, I don't care
for a day or two to elaborate it; I think it
would be a violation of what I told them I
would say if I went into that any more
deeply.
I was talking to President Giscard this
morning on the phone. He's coming over
to make a speech to the United Nations
in May, and he will probably come by to
see me if we can work out details. We will
be having the NATO conference here
at the end of May. We are making plans
for that already. It will be a 2-day, full
session; the first day devoted to political
matters between me and the heads of
state, pretty well exclusively-maybe for-
eign ministers sitting in on some of the
sessions-the second day on military mat-
ters with the heads of state again partici-
pating.
This is a first in having the heads of
state so deeply involved in NATO details,
both politics and military matters, and it
shows the renewed importance of NATO
in our minds.
We have been working, as you know,
on the Mideast question ever since I've
been in office. And we've become much
more deeply involved in the affairs in
Africa than ever before in our Nation's
history. We've got a great threat there
to peace that could involve the whole
world if it should break down.
The Horn of Africa, the Eritrean ques-
tion is going to arise soon in a much more
highly publicized way. We hope that this
can be resolved peacefully and that we
will not have another war in Ethiopia
brought about by the Eritrean question,
certainly not involving foreign troops.
In Zimbabwe, we initiated this past
week, along with the British, a meeting
with the Salisbury leaders for internal
settlement, also with the frontline presi-
dents who surround Rhodesia and, hope-
fully, with the so-called Patriotic Front
leaders. Later, at least one of them,
Mugabe, said he would participate in
these discussions.
In Namibia, we are acting along with
three or four other of the Western leaders
in the Security Council as agents of the
United Nations, trying to bring an orderly
withdrawal of the South Africans from
that country, as has already been agreed
to within the United Nations.
Another obvious, continuing effort is to
bring about a peaceful and a satisfactory
SALT agreement with the Soviet Union.
We've made good and steady progress.
I think they've negotiated in good faith;
so have we. I can't predict that we will
reach an ultimate agreement, because
there are still several crucial items that we
have not yet resolved.
Secretary Vance will be going to Mos-
cow soon to pursue these remaining items.
And we hope to resolve some of them and
bring us closer to a resolution of them.
We are making good progress on the
comprehensive test ban. For the first time,
we're attempting to ban the testing of all
nuclear devices, both peaceful and weap-
ons. And the British, the Soviets, and we
have made good progress on that in the
last 6 months.
This morning, as a routine matter, I
received five Ambassadors who presented
their credentials to me. I spent 5, 10 min-
utes with each one of them talking about
special problems with their own coun-
tries-countries like New Zealand and
Italy, Ghana. This was a very routine
thing for me to do. But before I meet with
those Ambassadors, I have to learn a little
about their country, review their latest
problems and achievements so that I can
send a message to their heads of state.
This is a ceremony that has both sub-
stance and just ceremonial benefits. Those
are some of the outlines of things that I've
714
