Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
ments. I have asked the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to di-
rect an interagency task force to improve
the management of Federal grant-in-aid
programs and consolidate the numerous
tion options. They have completed the
first stages of this work. During the next
several months, they will consult with the
Congress, State and local officials and the
public to develop the best solution.
There are several actions I will take im- planning requirements in the community
mediately.
ysis
• Urban and Community Impact Anal-
I am implementing a process through
my Domestic Policy Staff (DPS) and Of-
fice of Management and Budget (OMB)
to ensure that we do not inadvertently
take actions which contradict the goals of
the urban policy. Each agency submitting
a major domestic initiative must include
its own urban and community impact
analysis. DPS and OMB will review these
submissions and will ensure that any anti-
and economic development grant pro-
grams.
• Improved Data and Information
I have asked the Secretary of Com-
merce, in her capacity as Chair of the
Statistical Policy Coordination Commit-
tee, to design an improved urban data and
information system. At the present time
much of this data is inadequate or out of
date.
The Role of State Governments
State government policies, even more
urban impacts of proposed Federal poli- than Federal policies, are important to the
cies will be brought to my attention.
Interagency Coordinating Council
To improve program coordination, I
will form an Interagency Coordinating
Council, composed of the Assistant Secre-
taries with major program responsibilities
in the key urban departments. The Coun-
cil will have two functions:
It will serve as a catalyst for operational
improvements which cut across Depart-
ments (for example, instituting uniform
grant applications); and it will encourage
interagency cooperation on projects which
are too large or too complex to be funded
by one agency. This Council will, for the
first time, provide a coordinated Federal
response to communities which develop
comprehensive and multi-year projects. It
will have direction from the Executive
Office of the President.
•
Consolidating Planning Require-
Require
ments and Other Management Improve-
ments
We soon will announce the consolida-
tion of intra-agency planning require-
fiscal and economic health of cities. States
affect their cities in a number of ways, in-
cluding setting taxation and annexation
powers, determining the placement of
major development investments and ap-
portioning the financial responsibility for
welfare and education expenditures.
The Federal government has little or
no control over these developments, all of
which clearly affect the economic and fis-
cal health of cities and communities.
These State responsibilities underscore
the need for an urban policy which in-
cludes the States as full and equal part-
ners. The effectiveness of our urban policy
will be enhanced if the States can be en-
couraged to complement the Federal
effort.
To encourage States to support their
urban areas, I will offer a new program of
State incentive grants. These grants will
be provided, on a discretionary basis, to
States which adopt approved plans to
help their cities and communities. The
plans must be developed with the par-
585
