June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
He felt deeply, and aroused deep feelings.
He is still mourned, and he is remembered
as he was: passionate, moral, committed,
spontaneous, joyful.
NOTE: Senator Kennedy was assassinated fol-
lowing his appearance at a political rally in
Los Angeles, Calif. He was campaigning for
the 1968 Democratic Presidential nomination.
United States Naval Academy
Address at the Commencement Exercises.
June 7, 1978
Admiral McKee, Governor Lee, distin-
guished guests, members of the gradu-
ating class, and friends:
We do have many distinguished guests
here today. I invited my old boss, Ad-
miral Hyman Rickover, to come and join
us. He sent word back that he would, of
course, comply with my orders as Com-
mander in Chief, but he thought his work
for the Navy in Washington was more im-
portant than listening to my speech.
[Laughter] And I was not surprised.
[Laughter]
I am glad to be back for a Naval Acad-
emy graduation, although I return with
a different rank. I remember that 32
years ago I had the same experience that
most of you are sharing today. I was not
a midshipman officer. Most of you are not
officers. I was thinking more about leave
and marriage than I was about world
events or a distant future. I would guess
there are some among you who feel the
same. [Laughter]
I was quite disappointed with my first
appointment. We drew lots for assign-
ments, and I had requested a new de-
stroyer in the Pacific. I was assigned to
the oldest ship in the Atlantic-
Atlantic
[laughter] the U.S.S. Wyoming, which
was so dilapidated that because of safety
purposes it was not permitted to come
into Norfolk to tie up alongside the pier,
but had to anchor in isolation in Hamp-
ton Roads. [Laughter]
We had a distinguished speaker, Ad-
miral Chester Nimitz. As will be the case
with you,
I don't remember a word he
said. [Laughter] My one hope was that
the graduation services would be brief. As
will be the case with you, I was disap-
pointed. [Laughter]
And I have to confess with you in con-
fidence that at the time I did not expect
to come back here later as President of the
United States.
Seven years later, I reluctantly left the
Navy. But I can say in retrospect that the
Naval Academy and my service in the
U.S. Navy was good preparation for the
career which I eventually chose.
I congratulate the members of the Class
of 1978. Although your education from
the perspective of an older person has just
begun, you have laid the foundation for
a career that can be as rewarding and as
challenging as any in the world.
As officers in the modern Navy, you will
be actors in a worldwide political and mil-
itary drama. You will be called upon not
only to master the technicalities of mili-
tary science and military leadership but
also to have a sensitive understanding of
the international community
community within
which the Navy operates.
Today I want to discuss one of the most
important aspects of that international
context the relationship between the
world's two greatest powers, the United
States of America and the Soviet Union.
We must realize that for a very long
time our relationship with the Soviet
Union will be competitive. That compe-
tition is to be constructive if we are suc-
cessful. Instead it could be dangerous and
politically disastrous. Then our relation-
ship must be cooperative as well.
We must avoid excessive swings in the
public mood in our country-from eu-
1052
