Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The way the committee chairmanships
and the voting patterns are ranged, I
think there's going to be an inherent bal-
ance in the allocation formulae for Fed-
eral programs. I cannot imagine any un-
fairness evolving as a pattern between the
Snowbelt and the Sunbelt regions. If it
should develop and was detected by me,
then I would move in an executive way
to try to correct that.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, do you have any
timetable for intervening in the coal strike,
in view of the emergencies in Indiana and
West Virginia?
The President. No. We have helped
in some way without invoking Taft-Hart-
ley, both by the transfer of coal from ex-
cessive supply areas to those where the
coal is not available, within States, and
also to try to preserve peace by the use of
the FBI and other Federal means.
We have encouraged the parties to con-
tinue to negotiate when they seem to be
disappointed and inclined to stop their
effort. And on one occasion, we asked
Arnold Miller 2 to delay a decision for 24
hours-I think he decided 48 hours-to
let there be a more careful consideration
of the proposed agreement before it could
be rejected out of hand.
The Taft-Hartley law gives me the au-
thority to bring the Federal Government
into the discussions only if the national
security is threatened, and that point has
not yet been reached. We monitor on a
daily basis the reserve supplies of coal,
both geographically and industry by in-
dustry.
So, I will continue to keep aware of the
specific needs; transfer of coal from one
point to another, now, that's already avail-
able. And we still have a fairly heavy pro-
duction of coal in the nonstrike areas.
2 President, United Mine Workers.
NATIONAL WATER POLICY
Q. Mr. President, Craig Lesser from
Charlottesville, Virginia, formerly of Car-
tersville, Georgia.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, really? Well, I'm
glad to hear from you.
Q. Mr. President, I was at the seminar
in Denver, where we heard about water.
THE PRESIDENT. I remember.
Q. You, at that time, I believe, said that
all kinds of decisions or discussions were
going to be in public. How far along the
road are you on a national water policy?
THE PRESIDENT. It'll be finished within
the next couple of weeks and presented to
me. And then I'll assess the recommenda-
tions that are derived from the different
agencies of the Federal Government—the
Corps of Engineers, the Department of
Interior, EPA, and others—and then I'll
make a decision on it. I can't tell you yet
how long it would take me to decide, but
the deadline for them to present it is
within a couple of weeks.
Q. How comprehensive do you antici-
pate that's going to be?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet. But
I am insistent upon the fact that the Fed-
eral Government is not going to take over
the responsibility for allocating water
within States.
POSTAL REFORM BILL
Q. Mr. President, my name is Walter
Grunfeld from Marathon, New York. I
am 1 of 10,000 publishers in the weekly
community field in the United States.
And I'm sure that you are aware of
H.R. 7700. I would like to tell that
we are wholly dependent in the weekly
newspaper business on the United States
mail service.
you
I would ask you to give the bill every
consideration, and perhaps you would
give us some comment on how you feel
about the postal reform bill at this time.
308
