Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
story because they said he was drinking
amaretto and cream. [Laughter] The
White House conference is certainly
worthy of consideration. My own per-
sonal advice would be that perhaps in
the future Hamilton might substitute
peaches for the amaretto. [Laughter]
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-sixth news
conference began at 12:20 p.m. in the ball-
room at the National Press Club. Frank Auko-
fer is president of the National Press Club.
Federal Civil Service Reform
Message to the Congress. March 2, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to the Congress to-
day a comprehensive program to reform
the Federal Civil Service system. My pro-
posals are intended to increase the gov-
ernment's efficiency by placing new em-
phasis on the quality of performance of
Federal workers. At the same time, my
recommendations will ensure that em-
ployees and the public are protected
against political abuse of the system.
Nearly a century has passed since
enactment of the first Civil Service Act-
the Pendleton Act of 1883. That Act es-
tablished the United States Civil Service
Commission and the merit system it ad-
ministers. These institutions have served
our Nation well in fostering development
of a Federal workforce which is basically
honest, competent, and dedicated to con-
stitutional ideals and the public interest.
But the system has serious defects. It
has become a bureaucratic maze which
neglects merit, tolerates poor perform-
ance, permits abuse of legitimate em-
ployee rights, and mires every personnel
action in red tape, delay and confusion.
Civil Service reform will be the center-
piece of government reorganization dur-
ing my term in office.
I have seen at first hand the frustration
among those who work within the bu-
reaucracy. No one is more concerned at
the inability of government to deliver on
its promises than the worker who is trying
to do a good job.
Most Civil Service employees perform
with spirit and integrity. Nevertheless,
there is still widespread criticism of Fed-
eral government performance. The public
suspects that there are too many govern-
ment workers, that they are underworked,
overpaid, and insulated from the conse-
quences of incompetence.
Such sweeping criticisms are unfair to
dedicated Federal workers who are con-
scientiously trying to do their best, but we
have to recognize that the only way to re-
store public confidence in the vast ma-
jority who work well is to deal effectively
and firmly with the few who do not.
For the past 7 months, a task force of
more than 100 career civil servants has
analyzed the Civil Service, explored its
weaknesses and strengths and suggested
how it can be improved.
The objectives of the Civil Service re-
form proposals I am transmitting today
are:
-To strengthen the protection of legit-
imate employee rights;
To provide incentives and oppor-
tunities for managers to improve the
efficiency and responsiveness of the
Federal Government;
-To reduce the red tape and costly
delay in the present personnel sys-
tem;
-To promote equal employment op-
portunity;
-To improve labor-management rela-
tions.
444
