June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
i
strike force of some kind that could be
used whenever called upon to go to any-
where in Africa to try to intercede mili-
tarily to bring about peace.
This is a proposition that we have
never considered. Our only involvement
has been for the Shaba province in the
southern part of Zaire to try to stabilize
the situation there. And, as you know,
we've only provided logistical support to
other nations; we've not provided any
troops and don't intend to. So, that's the
limit of our involvement, and I don't
think we'll go any further than that.
DAVID G. GARTNER
Q. Mr. President, in light of your code
of ethics pledge never to appoint anyone
with a conflict of interest or even the
appearance of conflict, how do you justify
appointing former Humphrey aide David
Gartner to the commission regulating
commodities, when he had accepted for
his children $72,000 in stocks from a
major commodities dealer, Dwayne An-
dreas? Did you know these facts before
you made the appointment?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't.
Q. How do you justify it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe that
the Senate committee and the full Senate
did have this information before they
decided that Mr. Gartner was qualified.
Also he has pledged himself not to be-
come involved at all in the consideration
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct. I
think that the circumstances and the facts
have been made known thoroughly, so far
as I'm able to tell. In spite of this, ac-
commodating this, the Senate did ap-
prove his appointment, and he has
pledged himself not to become involved
in any matter that related to that partic-
ular company.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, to get back to Prop-
osition 13, sir, today Budget Director
McIntyre called it wishful thinking to
suggest that communities in California
could ask the Federal Government to bail
them out of difficulties with their local
payrolls and so on. How do you there
was an indication that he was speaking
for you on this. Was he, and how do you
feel about that? And if you were to get
such requests from localities, what would
you tell them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, within the con-
straints of the presently existing programs
for transportation, education, for air and
water pollution control, crime control,
and the LEAA, CETA jobs for public
service and training, of course we would
be glad to help the communities of Cali-
fornia on the same basis as we help the
communities around the country. And if
there should evolve a crisis in a commu-
nity, after careful assessment, within the
bounds of the law and administrative
them.
of any matter that related to that partic- procedures, we would obviously help
ular company. So, although I didn't
know about it before I submitted his
name, we knew about this before the Sen-
ate committee and the Senate at large
considered his appointment.
It was approved overwhelmingly, as
you know.
Q. You believe it does not constitute a
conflict of interest or the appearance of
conflict?
The Federal impact of the California
decision will be felt long in the future. I
think with a $5 billion surplus that pres-
ently exists in the State government for
several months in the future, this can be
used, as Governor Brown has very wisely
proposed, to deal with those special needs.
Following that time, of course, we'll
have to assess what role the Federal Gov-
1096
