Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
responsibilities. For instance, in the Ways
and Means Committee in the House and
the Finance Committee in the Senate, they
have responsibility for the economic stim-
ulus package, for tax reform, for tax re-
duction, for the welfare system, for health
care, plus the very important elements
of energy and other matters. And there's
a limit to how much they can consider at
the same time.
So, this year they are working on
energy. They're working on tax reduction
and tax reform. They're working on wel-
fare reform, and before the year is over,
before they adjourn for next fall, they will
have a completed bill recommended by
me to them for a comprehensive nation-
wide health care system.
PRESIDENT'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS
Q. Mr. President, my name is John
Bryant, and I attend Conant High School
in Jaffrey, New Hampshire. What I'd like
to know is what do you think about the
Bible prophesy in Isaiah 19, verses 23 and
24, apparently being fulfilled in our times,
when Egypt and Syria will be aligning
themselves with Israel in the last days?
And in what way has being a born-again
Christian affected your role as the
President?
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine. I believe
that one of the great, positive factors in
eventually finding a resolution of the dif-
ferences in the Middle East is the deep
religious conviction of both Prime Minis-
ter Begin and President Sadat.
They and we, as Christians, worship
the same God. Our religious beliefs differ
in some degrees. But there's a special in-
terrelationship between the Arabs in
Egypt and the Jews in Israel.
They recognize Abraham as a common
father of them all. And I think they un-
derstand, as you say, the prophesies in
Isaiah as applying to both peoples, that
peace between Egypt and Israel is foreor-
dained by God, and that they play a role
in carrying out God's purposes.
The second part of your question about
my being a born-again, devout Christian
and how it's affected my public life is one
that I've had to address many times.
There was a great deal of doubt in the
country when I began my campaign be-
cause I am a devout Christian.
I've never found that this interfered
with my performance of duty as a Gov-
ernor or as a candidate or as President of
our country. I recognize very clearly the
prohibition in the Constitution about an
unwarranted intrusion of the state or the
Government into religion or vice versa.
I worship daily. The last thing I do
every evening is to have a private worship
service with my wife. We never fail to do
this. I pray frequently during the day. I
seek God's guidance. I don't try to use the
power and prestige of my office to cause
other people to adopt the same faith that
I happen to have.
I don't think this is contrary to the
hopes or the expressed beliefs of our
Founding Fathers. In the Constitution of
the United States, we recognize God as
the guiding leader of us all.
We leave people a right to either wor-
ship Him or not, or to worship whatever
form of God they choose. But I found it
very beneficial to me to have something
in my life that never changes.
In the face of constantly changing po-
litical and military and economic circum-
stances, my religious faith doesn't change.
And it's a stabilizing factor in my life. It
binds me closer to the members of my
family; it gives us something in common.
And I believe and hope that our Nation's
deep belief in God will be a stabilizing
factor in generations ahead.
So I would say it's very good for me.
Thank you.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
370
