June 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rather be President or a real person?"
[Laughter]
That question has kind of preyed on
my mind. And as I prepared my remarks
for this morning, I thought about it. And
as I speak to you, my brothers and sisters
in Christ, I'll keep that before me.
In a modern, fast-changing, technical
world, we tend to be dehumanized,
stamped out in a pattern. Individual
traits that give us a uniqueness in God's
world tend to be ironed out and smoothed
over. This creates conflicts in us, because
there is a difference between our attitude
toward our private, inward life and our
public, outward life, no matter how
broad the scope of our participation might
be in public affairs.
I remember in Plains, Georgia-that's
a small town which is my home-our
house was only about 30, 40 yards from
the railroad track. And as a tiny boy I
used to stand there and watch those tre-
mendous steam engines go by, and the
big yellow wheels, and I would watch the
connecting rods pushing forward, pulling
back, pushing forward, pulling back, and
the wheel went around and the train went
forward. And I couldn't understand it for
a long time, but now I see very clearly
that unless a connecting rod went for-
ward and back, that the wheel could not
have continued to turn, and the train
could not have made any progress.
Well, we as Baptists, as Christians, as
Americans, are trying to make progress.
The bold mission effort is a new ideal, a
new program, a new commitment, a new
concept which lets us as a denomination
spread our influence in a beneficent way
much more rapidly, much more broadly,
than we had contemplated a few years
ago.
I've noticed this convention has con-
centrated on how we might use our posi-
tion in life to greater influence in the
service of God. But quite often we are
much more interested in using our in-
fluence for ourselves, for material benefit,
for stature, for a good reputation, for in-
fluence, even to win in the competition of
life than we were or are or possibly will
be in God's service.
When I was a naval officer, a scientist,
a businessman, I was intensely committed
to doing well. I worked many hours every
day. I thought at night about how I might
do better. When I was a candidate for
public office, particularly the last cam-
paign I ran, I gave a hundred percent of
everything in me to win, to let the Ameri-
can people know the good side of my
character, perhaps to conceal my defects,
to let them realize how badly I wanted
to serve.
I didn't waste any time and neither did
my family, and neither did many friends.
But I have to stand here and confess to
you that I've never given that much of
a sustained commitment to serving God.
But this is not an inherent limit on hu-
man beings just because I or perhaps some
of you are guilty of that misapplication of
priorities, because there have been many
times in the past when individual people
adopted in their own lives a bold mis-
sion, and not only changed their own lives
but were able to use their lives in a way
that carried on through history.
Abraham Lincoln, Mahatma Gandhi,
Martin Luther King, Jr., were people who
used their influence in political ways to
correct wrongs, to open up new possibili-
ties for other people to expand their
hearts, to expand their minds, to live
better lives. They lost their lives through
violence in this carrying out of a bold
mission for themselves.
In our own denomination, we've seen
the same thing. Luther Rice, Annie Arm-
strong, Lottie Moon¹ gave their lives,
quite often unrecognized, unappreciated
¹ Baptist missionaries.
1114
