Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
an takes your lunch to work-say, a
$1.50 or $2 sandwich and something to
drink-or buys it in a restaurant, you
can't mark it off as a business expense.
But if a salesman or someone else has a
very fancy lunch and has a customer with
him, then they can mark all that off, may-
be a $25 or $30 lunch, as a business ex-
pense. The same thing is applicable with
tickets to sporting events, tickets to the
theater. If they carry a customer with
them, then they can mark it all off as a
business expense. I don't think that's
right, and I think we ought to do away
with it.
But it's very difficult for the Members
of Congress to support these kinds of tax
reforms because the more influential
people are, the more of these tax breaks
or loopholes they've gotten for themselves.
And the same ability to hire lobbyists to
get the tax breaks in the first place keeps
those lobbyists who are very effective in
Washington now to preserve the tax
breaks for them. And the average work-
ing family doesn't know anything about it.
And I think it's time to have comprehen-
sive tax reform.
So, I'd say antitrust, deregulation, tax
reform, intense competition brings out the
best in our free enterprise system and does
not hurt business; it does not hurt em-
ployment. In most instances, in my
opinion, it would help employment.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS;
DICKEY LINCOLN DAM
Q. Bill Bussey from Bath, Maine. Before
my question, Mr. President, the citizens
of Bath, Maine, and the employees of the
Bath Iron Works, wish to take this oppor-
tunity to express their gratitude and ap-
preciation to you and the State Depart-
ment for awarding contracts which enable
the iron works to continue building the
finest ships in the world.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I might
interrupt you to say that in the 1979
budget, which I've just sent to the Senate,
we have eight more patrol frigates. And
I feel sure that with the very fine quality
work that you do and with your two U.S.
Senators, Ed Muskie and Bill Hathaway
there, I'm sure that Bath is going to get
its share of the new contracts.
Q. Well, keep them coming.
THE PRESIDENT. I will. Now, what was
your question?
Q. All right. Do you support Senator
Hathaway's stand on the Dickey Lincoln
power project?
THE PRESIDENT. Both Senator Hatha-
way and Senator Muskie have been long
supporters of the Dickey Lincoln Dam on
the Saint John River. We will make a de-
cision—I will make a decision on the dam
after August. We have an environmental
impact statement that will be coming to
me, I believe, on August of 1978. And
until that time comes, I will not decide
whether or not to put my request for that
dam in the 1980 fiscal year budget.
As you know, we did put enough money
in the budget this year to do the basic
research and the preliminary planning for
it and to complete the environmental
statement. But I will not decide that until
after August, when I get the statement
about the environmental impact.
Q. Wayne Bayer, Bangor, Maine. Mr.
President, may I just say that I want to
thank you for your support and recogni-
tion of the courage and contributions of
Senator Hathaway, in coming to the State
of Maine.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
Q. You have been accused, unfairly, I
believe, of sending Congress too many
legislative proposals. I'm concerned, if
this argument gains increasing acceptance,
that Senator Kennedy's plans and yours
347
