Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
"“at risk” rule to limit the deductibility of
certain tax shelter losses.
However, some promoters have now
adapted their operations to provide shel-
ters in forms that were not specifically
covered by the 1976 Act. In fact, shelter
activity in 1977 may have surpassed the
level reached in 1976. Form letters, ad-
dressed to "All of Us Who Wish to Re-
duce Our Taxes," boldly promise tax
write-offs several times larger than the
amount invested, and persons are urged
to pass the message along "to anyone you
think may have interest in tax reduction."
Tax shelter experts promote their services
in large and expensive advertisements in
the financial sections of our Sunday
papers.
Such flagrant manipulation of the tax
laws should not be tolerated. I recom-
mend action that will build upon the
1976 reforms and further reduce tax
shelter abuses.
(1) Strengthening of the Minimum
Tax. The minimum tax has proved to be
one of the most useful devices to limit
the attractiveness of tax shelter schemes,
and it should be made still more effective.
In its current form, the minimum tax is
imposed at a rate of 15 percent on the
amount of certain tax preference items
enjoyed by a taxpayer. But the total
amount of tax preferences can be reduced
by the greater of $10,000 or one-half of
regular tax liability (in the case of indi-
viduals) before the minimum tax is ap-
plied.
I recommend that the minimum tax
for individuals be strengthened by elimi-
nating the offset of one-half of regular
tax liability against preference income.
This change will make the minimum tax
more progressive and a more sharply fo-
cused deterrent to the use of tax shel-
ters. Persons making excessive use of pref-
erences will be taxed on their preference
income without regard to regular tax
liability. On the other hand, those indi-
viduals with modest preference income
will still be totally exempted from the
minimum tax by the $10,000 preference
offset, and the minimum tax will not be
applied to capital gain realized on the
sale of a personal residence. Ninety-eight
percent of the $284 million in revenue
raised by this proposal will come from
taxpayers with incomes exceeding $100,-
000 and more than 77 percent will come
from the income class over $200,000.
(2) Extension of "at risk" Rule. One of
the 1976 reforms that should be tough-
ened is the “at risk” rule. That rule denies
deductibility for a shelter investor's paper
losses that exceed his cash investment and
indebtedness for which he has personal
liability. My tax reform plan will gen-
erally extend the "at risk" provisions to
cover all activities (except real estate)
carried on individually, through partner-
ships, or by corporations controlled by five
or fewer persons.
(3) Changes in Real Estate Deprecia-
tion. Reform of real estate depreciation
practices is needed to reduce much of
the wasteful tax shelter investment that
has led to overbuilding of commercial
real estate in such forms as shopping cen-
ters and office buildings. Real estate shel-
ters were left virtually untouched by the
1976 Act. Consequently, these shelters
have continued to thrive.
It is time to move depreciation for tax
purposes more closely into line with a
measurement of actual economic decline.
The reform program will generally re-
quire taxpayers to base their depreciation
for buildings on the straight-line method,
using the present average tax lives claimed
by taxpayers for different classes of prop-
erty. Exceptions from the general rule
will be granted until 1983 for new multi-
family housing, which will be permitted
167
