Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
He has again advised me that he has
reason to believe that sugars, sirups, and
molasses, derived from sugar cane or
sugar beets, classified under items 155.20
and 155.30, of the Tariff Schedules of
the United States (TSUS) (19 U.S.C.
1202), hereinafter referred to as "sugars",
are being, or are practically certain to be,
imported into the United States under
such conditions and in such quantities as
to render or tend to render ineffective, or
to materially interfere with the price sup-
port operations now being conducted by
the Department of Agriculture for sugar
cane and sugar beets, or to reduce sub-
stantially the amount of any product
being processed in the United States from
such domestic sugar beets and sugar cane.
The Secretary of Agriculture has re-
affirmed his determination that the condi-
tion requires emergency treatment.
I agree there is reason for these beliefs
and I find and declare that:
(a) Sugars, described below by use and
physical description, are being imported,
or are practically certain to be imported,
into the United States under such con-
ditions and in such quantities as to render
or tend to render ineffective, or mate-
rially interfere with, the price support
operations being conducted by the De-
partment of Agriculture for sugar cane
and sugar beets, or reduce substantially
the amount of any product processed in
the United States from domestic sugar
beets or sugar cane;
(b) A condition exists which requires
the immediate imposition of the import
fees hereinafter set forth, without await-
ing the report and recommendations of
the United States International Trade
Commission.
(c) The imposition of the import fees
hereinafter proclaimed is necessary in
order that the entry, or withdrawal from
warehouse, for consumption of such
sugars will not render or tend to render
ineffective, or materially interfere with,
the price support operations being con-
ducted by the Department of Agricul-
ture for sugar beets and sugar cane, or
reduce substantially the amount of prod-
ucts processed in the United States from
such domestic sugar beets or sugar cane.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
acting under the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and Statutes of the
United States of America, including sec-
tion 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act, as amended, do hereby proclaim that
Part 3 of the Appendix to the TSUS is
amended as follows:
1. Headnote 4 is amended to read as
follows:
4. Sugar, sirups, and molasses
(a) Licenses may be issued by the Secretary
of Agriculture or his designee authorizing the
entry of articles exempt from the fees pro-
vided for in items 956.05, 956.15, and 957.15
of this part on the condition that such articles
will be used only for the production (other
than by distillation) of polyhydric alcohols,
except polyhydric alcohols for use as a substi-
tute for sugar in human food consumption.
Such licenses shall be issued under regulations
of the Secretary of Agriculture which he deter-
mines are necessary to insure the use of such
articles only for such purposes.
(b) "Not to be further refined or improved
in quality" as used in item 956.05 means not to
be further refined or improved in quality by
being subjected substantially to the processes
of (1) affination or defecation, (2) clarifica-
tion, or (3) further purification by absorption
or crystallization.
2. Items 956.10, 956.20, 957.10, and
957.20 are deleted.
3. The following new items, in nu-
mercial sequence, are added following
item 955.06:
146
