Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 8
been working on, at least today. And I
would be glad to have questions from you
on these things.
QUESTIONS
PRESIDENT'S RELATIONSHIP WITH
WESTERN STATES
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Colorado,
and there is a lot of talk down in Colo-
rado and other parts of the West, par-
ticularly the Rockies and so forth, about
the alienation between the President and
the West. How do you react to that in
your hitlist and so forth and the water
policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there have been
similar articles about the alienation be-
tween me and minority groups, between
me and the farmers, between me and the
cities, between me and the Congress, be-
tween me and the Soviets, between me
and the West Germans, and so forth. You
know, there's always that inclination. I
think we've got a good relationship in the
West.
My hope is before too long to visit Colo-
rado in person and to meet with those
who are particularly interested in our
water policy and also to meet with some
of the farmers in perhaps the western part
of
your State. We're trying to prepare a
trip for me, maybe sometime next month.
We haven't settled on a date yet. But I
would like to do this. I think that our
water policy will be acceptable to the
people of Colorado.
It's not yet reached my desk. But all of
the agencies in the Federal Government
who are involved in this, both those who
build dams-Interior and the Corps of
Engineers those who have agriculture
policy that relates to irrigation the
Energy Department, EPA-have partici-
pated in this water policy evolution.
I think that it's entirely inevitable that
all elements of it will not be attractive for
any person. Some of the decisions I make
will be very difficult and close decisions.
But we've never in the past had a com-
prehensive water policy. And I think in
the future it will be an excellent guide to
local and State people who will retain full
control that they presently have over their
water allocations.
It will also be an excellent guide for me
and future Presidents and for the Con-
gress. So, for the first time, we can work
in harmony with some predictability
about what we do see as major needs in
the development of our water resources
in this country. Also, I think it would tend
to prevent future confrontations when in-
adequate or improper priorities are estab-
lished for the expenditure of Federal and
other funds.
So, my belief is that the furor that's
been created by an addressing of this
question will soon abate, and the ulti-
mate outcome will be a great alleviation
of tensions, misappropriations, and divi-
siveness between the Federal Govern-
ment and other elements in and of our
society.
ALASKA
Q. While we are in the West, could I
take you further north, Mr. President, to
Alaska?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
Q. You have not visited Alaska since
your early campaign or since you became
President. And I wondered if since we
are really a developing nation up north-
[laughter-whether you had any plans
to visit Alaska; secondly, if you plan to
throw your weight behind any effort with
Congress to alleviate the oil glut caused
by the Alaska pipeline on the west coast,
by working out a tradeoff of oil with
Japan; and thirdly, if you would just
speak a moment about your feeling about
the balance between the necessity to de-
velop Alaska as the energy storehouse for
715
