Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 16, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
June 9, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I apologize for inter-
rupting your meeting. [Laughter]
What I'd like to do very briefly is to
outline some of the questions that face me
at this moment that are both time-con-
suming and also of importance to our
country, and then spend what time we
have available answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I think the overriding concern that I
have is about inflation. It's very bad, get-
ting worse. And I don't think yet we've
marshaled an adequate degree of support
in the Congress or around the Nation to
join in a concerted effort to control this
threat to the economic structure and sta-
bility of our country.
Whenever a tangible, specific effort is
made to control inflation, it always
touches a very powerful constituency
group, sometimes quite benevolent in na-
ture, sometimes, perhaps, otherwise.
I think the primary thing that the Con-
gress can do this year in positive legisla-
tion is to pass the hospital cost contain-
ment bill. We've seen hospital costs go up
almost like a skyrocket the last few years
and profits along with it.
The average costs have gone up about
17 percent per year, which is between
two and three times as much as the aver-
age increase in costs for services and sup-
plies that the hospitals have to buy.
As you know, many of these hospitals
are tightly controlled, both by private in-
vestors, also by medical doctors who
supply the patients for them and who de-
termine the level of care to be derived.
And I think that some control over these
costs is imperative. The lobbying effort
against this legislation is formidable, and
the issue is in doubt.
We are also trying to provide some
mechanism by which we can control and
make the Federal bureaucracy more effec-
tive, to manage it better. We have civil
service reform legislation before the Con-
gress, also reorganization plans. The dif-
ference is that the legislation requires pos-
itive action by Congress.
The reorganization plan goes into effect
automatically if the Congress doesn't take
adverse action within 60 days. I think we
have a fairly good prospect for getting this
passed. It will give the very fine, compe-
tent, dedicated, loyal, sometimes self-sac-
1073
