Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
One is that we don't anticipate our im-
ports of oil to increase in 1978 as they did
in 1977. That's one of the major reasons
for our adverse trade balance.
Secondly, last year we had about a 3-
percent higher growth rate than the
average of all our major trading partners.
This year, because the other economies
are improving somewhat, that 3-percent
difference is likely to narrow considerably.
Obviously, when our economy is boom-
ing, compared to theirs, we have extra
money that we can use to buy their goods;
they can equivalently afford to buy our
own goods.
Because of many factors, which I won't
describe, to save time, interest rates in our
country have now gone up, compared to
interest rates abroad. Yesterday the
equivalent to the prime rate in Japan was
lowered again. This means that it's more
attractive now for foreigners who have
money to invest it in our country than it
was last year.
I think we'll have an energy bill before
too many weeks go by. We are making
some progress already in the Senate. We
have an agreement now. We're introduc-
ing this Senate agreement-the Senators
are;
I think Senator Jackson, in the lead,
Senator Bumpers was helping him-today
to the House, and I hope that will resolve
the question.
I think a doubt and an uncertainty
about what we are going to do on the
energy question has been an adverse fac-
tor. And although the results of an energy
package will be slow in being realized,
they will be sure and steady and give some
predictability about the future markets.
Temporary things hurt the dollar, too.
The invasion of Lebanon by Israeli forces
caused the market to be shaky yesterday.
And the news reports that the kidnapping
in Italy causes the dollar to be a little bit
shaky.
So, these matters, as they are resolved, if
and when they are resolved, that don't
relate to any decision that I might make,
have an adverse effect on the stability of
the international markets.
We don't try to stop long-range trends,
of course, in currency values. These are
determined primarily by trade relation-
ships. But we do intercede in an increas-
ingly effective way and an increasingly
aggressive way to compensate for disor-
derly movements in the market.
But I think the trends this year, based
on these factors and a few others, show
that the dollar is likely to strengthen dur-
ing 1978.
SPACE PROGRAM
Q. Mr. President, my name's Ron
Thornburg; I'm with Today newspaper
in Brevard County, Florida. We're the
home of Kennedy Space Center, so we're
very interested in space policy. I have a
doublebarreled sort of question for you.
Do you have any plans to put funding
for the fifth space shuttle orbiter back
into the budget? And secondly, what do
you see as the role of the United States
in space in the next 10 years?
THE PRESIDENT. No, at this time I
don't intend to put the fifth space shuttle
orbiter back in the budget. We have four
that I have recommended to the Congress,
and we believe this is completely adequate
to take care of our needs for a long time in
the future and also give us a standby ve-
hicle if we need it. We will upgrade, how-
ever, the early models produced to make
sure that they are fully operational in
character. This was not in the original
plan.
I think that our space program in the
future, the next 10 years, will be stable,
well planned, carefully considered. I think
the space shuttle capability that we will
have will greatly expand the customer
519
