Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 30
tential adversaries that is better for
mutual respect and the preservation of
peace.
We want a strong defense. We've as-
sured that. We want a general commit-
ment to peace and mutual disarmament.
And both those elements of our desires
can be guaranteed only through the ac-
curate image of a capable and deep com-
mitment to mutual strength.
I think the United States is particularly
well qualified to be the host of NATO, the
members of the North American (Atlan-
tic) Alliance. We are not only your
friends but we're your kinfolks, we're your
relatives. Throughout our country there
are tens of millions of people who look
upon your countries as their second home-
land. And it would be impressive to you
if you could have shared the 2 years of
campaign experience that I enjoyed
around this Nation-or rather that I ex-
perienced around this Nation-[laugh-
ter]-to witness the deep sense of pride
and a desire to protect the heritage that
Americans share with their relatives in
your own home countries. So, that, I
think, qualifies us to be the host for this
notable occasion.
In a few minutes we'll leave here and
go down on the front lawn to witness
again one of the great ballet performances
available throughout the world. And the
heritage of common beliefs, common
ideals, and also common culture and en-
joyment, is what we enjoy from the older
countries in the European area. We feel
that we share a common commitment to
democracy, we share a common commit-
ment to liberty, we share a common com-
mitment to the rule of law. So, I would
like to propose a toast on behalf of the
people of the United States of America
to the people whom you represent as our
allies in Canada and in the European area,
to the North American (Atlantic) Alli-
ance, the guardian of safety, the servant
of freedom, and the instrument of peace.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Allow me, Mr.
President, to say a few words as Honorary
President.
I wish to thank you in the name of all
my colleagues and my wife. I wish to
thank you, Mr. President and Mrs.
Carter, for being such nice hosts to us this
evening in this family atmosphere which
made us feel really in the heart of Amer-
ica. We have had a very interesting ses-
sion, or rather, sessions today in the
NATO Council meeting in the true spirit
of democracy, where everything, every
idea was expressed and criticized freely in
the search for a better way of life.
The North Atlantic Treaty community
consists of nations who are all attached to
the ideal of democracy, who all have great
respect for human freedom and for hu-
man rights. There may be problems within
the Alliance; in fact, there are problems
within the Alliance that we have spoken
about today. There may even at times be
differences between some members of the
Alliance, as in fact there are to some ex-
tent today. But I think there is a bond
that will survive all such differences in
NATO, and that is the attachment of our
peoples to democracy and to freedom.
We are living in a rapidly changing
time. And for institutions to survive such
change, they must also learn to change
themselves. They must not only be able to
adapt to change but be agents of change
themselves. And democratic communities
can do that particularly easily, because
one important characteristic of democ-
racy, in my mind, beyond its capacity for
freedom, free thought, and free expres-
sion, is the propensity for self-criticism, for
self-questioning.
It is through self-questioning and
through constantly questioning one's
ideas, one's concepts, that mankind may
1017
