Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
HANDICAPPED PERSONS
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I
would like to ask a question on employ-
ment as far as the handicaps are con-
cerned. Are we going backward or
forward?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the last 12
months in carrying out the mandates of
the Congress, with the implementation of
employment standards in the Federal and
State, local governments, and also in pri-
vate industry, that we've made the great-
est step forward in ensuring handicapped
Americans rights that we've ever taken.
I think most of the groups that repre-
sent handicapped people agree that this
is true. It applies not only to jobs and to
educational opportunities, to special edu-
cation grants and loans that are available
but it also applies to physical facilities, the
design of buildings, the design of buses
and other transportation available.
So, I think that we've made a major
step in the last 12 months, not because I
initiated it but because we carried it out-
a decision that Congress had made be-
fore. So, I think we're moving forward
with the handicapped.
Q. Mr. President, please send our
fondest wishes to your wife, and we love
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I love you, too.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Hello, Mr. President. My name is
Jack Arruda, and I'm from Bangor, and I
attend Bangor High School.
Mr. President, don't you think that it's
contradictory to sell arms to Middle East
countries when you're pushing for peace?
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter] And
I'll tell you why.
I have promised and I will carry out
my promise to cut down year by year the
quantity of arms sold to overseas markets.
We'll obviously have to meet our treaty
obligations with NATO and with Japan
and with New Zealand and Australia.
Other than that, though, each year the
amount of arms we sell will be reduced.
We have already begun discussions
with other arms suppliers-France, Bel-
gium, Great Britain, the Soviet Union-
to try to get them to join with us in this
commitment. So far we are moving on
our own. We have made some progress.
Later on this year the United Nations
will have a general disarmament confer-
ence, and many of those leaders that I
just described to you will be speaking at
the United Nations. And I may go and
make a keynote speech there myself.
In the meantime, the Soviet Union is
selling tremendous
selling tremendous quantities of arms,
very advanced in nature, in Ethiopia, in
Libya, Iraq, and Syria, and formerly they
sold large quantities of arms to Egypt.
Our historic commitment in the
Middle East has been to keep Israel
strong and secure, and obviously we are
honoring that commitment.
The Saudi Arabians have very close
relations with us, as do the people of
Iran, and as you know, they are between
Israel and the Soviet Union, in a very
highly tense part of the world. We've
never before sold Egypt any weapons that
could be used in an attack. The F-5E's,
which I have asked the Congress or will
ask the Congress next week to sell to
Egypt, are not nearly so advanced as the
F-15's and 16's that Israel is getting. And
no one could think that the F-5E's could
challenge an F-15 or an F-16.
But you have to remember that we
cannot abandon our own friends in the
Middle East. If we did, Egypt would soon
be overrun from Libya or perhaps even
from Ethiopia. And we cannot afford to
let that happen.
I might say in closing that it's not a
matter of confrontation between Saudi
359
