Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
through the Payroll Savings Plan and set
an example for all Americans in securing
their country's future.
The heads of departments and agen-
cies, who make up the Interagency Sav-
ings Bonds Committee, have the special
responsibility to offer and promote the
Payroll Savings Plan to every employee.
I am confident that, under your lead-
ership, the 1978 Federal campaign will
attain a new high level of participation.
You have my full support in this impor-
tant endeavor.
JIMMY CARTER
Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness
in Montana
Statement on Signing S. 1671 Into Law.
March 27, 1978
I am signing into law today S. 1671,
which designates the Absaroka-Beartooth
Wilderness in the State of Montana.
This act adds 904,500 acres of some of
Montana's most rugged and beautiful
backcountry alpine lakes, meadows, and
mountains to the National Wilderness
Preservation System. It is the product of
years of work by that tireless and dedi-
cated conservationist, the late Senator Lee
Metcalf of Montana. The enactment of
this bill fulfills one of his dreams. I want
to express my appreciation for the dedica-
tion of Senator Metcalf and to his col-
leagues in the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives who have helped make this
act possible.
This administration's goal of incorpo-
rating the Nation's most deserving areas
as wilderness before they are lost forever
moves an important step closer to real-
ization with the enactment of this bill.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1671 is Public Law
95-249, approved March 27.
Redwood National Park
Expansion Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 3813 Into Law.
March 27, 1978
I take great pleasure today in signing
into law H.R. 3813, which expands the
boundaries of the Redwood National Park
in California. Enactment of this bill im-
plements one of the recommendations in
the environmental message I sent to Con-
gress last year.
This act will permit more people to
visit the magnificent groves along Red-
wood Creek that contain the world's
tallest trees and will ensure that those
trees are adequately protected. The ex-
isting park will be nearly doubled in size
by the addition of 48,000 acres of land.
Some of the land to be acquired has been
damaged by logging operations, and this
bill will enable the Secretary of the In-
terior to restore it to as close to its natural
state as possible.
I commend the many supporters of this
important legislation. I especially want to
thank Representative Phillip Burton and
Senator Alan Cranston, both of Califor-
nia, and Senator James Abourezk for their
leadership and commitment to the passage
of this bill. Thanks also to Secretary
Andrus, who made support of this legis-
lation one of the first acts of this adminis-
tration, and to Senator Clifford Hansen
for his help in guiding the bill through the
Senate.
575
