Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
perhaps leaving that other nation in con-
trol of the only usable waterway across
the isthmus.
Are we paying Panama to take the
canal? We are not. Under the new treaty,
any payments to Panama will come from
tolls paid by ships which use the canal.
What about the present and the future
stability and the capability of the Pan-
amanian Government? Do the people of
Panama themselves support the agree-
ment?
Well, as you know, Panama and her
people have been our historical allies and
friends. The present leader of Panama has
been in office for more than 9 years, and
he heads a stable government which has
encouraged the development of free en-
terprise in Panama. Democratic elections
will be held this August to choose the
members of the Panamanian Assembly,
who will in turn elect a President and a
Vice President by majority vote. In the
past, regimes have changed in Panama,
but for 75 years, no Panamanian govern-
ment has ever wanted to close the canal.
Panama wants the canal open and neu-
tral-perhaps even more than we do. The
canal's continued operation is very im-
portant to us, but it is much more than
that to Panama. To Panama, it's crucial.
Much of her economy flows directly or
indirectly from the canal. Panama would
be no more likely to neglect or to close
the canal than we would be to close the
Interstate Highway System here in the
United States.
In an open and free referendum last
October, which was monitored very care-
fully by the United Nations, the people of
Panama gave the new treaties their
support.
The major threat to the canal comes not
from any government of Panama, but
from misguided persons who may try to
fan the flames of dissatisfaction with the
terms of the old treaty.
There's a final question-about the
deeper meaning of the treaties themselves,
to us and to Panama.
Recently, I discussed the treaties with
David McCullough, author of "The Path
Between the Seas," the great history of
the Panama Canal. He believes that the
canal is something that we built and have
looked after these many years; it is “ours"
in that sense, which is very different from
just ownership.
So, when we talk of the canal, whether
we are old, young, for or against the
treaties, we are talking about very deep
and elemental feelings about our own
strength.
Still, we Americans want a more hu-
mane and stable world. We believe in
good will and fairness, as well as strength.
This agreement with Panama is some-
thing we want because we know it is right.
This is not merely the surest way to pro-
tect and save the canal, it's a strong, posi-
tive act of a people who are still confident,
still creative, still great.
This new partnership can become a
source of national pride and self-respect
in much the same way that building the
canal was 75 years ago. It's the spirit in
which we act that is so very important.
Theodore Roosevelt, who was Presi-
dent when America built the canal, saw
history itself as a force, and the history
of our own time and the changes it has
brought would not be lost on him. He
knew that change was inevitable and nec-
essary. Change is growth. The true con-
servative, he once remarked, keeps his
face to the future.
But if Theodore Roosevelt were to en-
dorse the treaties, as I'm quite sure he
would, it would be mainly because he
could see the decision as one by which we
are demonstrating the kind of great power
we wish to be.
"We cannot avoid meeting great is-
sues," Roosevelt said. "All that we can de-
262
