June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
need to assist governments which find
themselves in financial crisis, if and when
they are willing to make sound measures
of self-help.
We need to support regional and sub-
regional cooperation and integration
through such organizations as the Carib-
bean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, which is meeting this week
in Washington-I think 30 countries.
achieve our common goals: a more just
economic system, enhanced human rights
and dignity, and permanent peace for us
all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:24 a.m. in
the Hall of the Americas at the Pan American
Union Building.
The provisional Chairman and President of
the session was Indalecio Liévano Aguirre,
Foreign Minister of Colombia. Alejandro Orfila
is Secretary General of the Organization of
American States.
The recent decision by several Andean
countries to establish a balance-of-pay-
ments support fund is a welcome contri-
bution to regional financial stability. The
little-noticed increase in intraregional
trade credits and cooperation among cen- Legislative Vetoes
tral banks testifies to the maturity and the
integration of Latin America.
Finally, let me say this: We set for
ourselves an ambitious program last year.
Much has been accomplished, but much
more remains to be done.
The Organization of American States
can play an important role in addressing
and solving our common problems. It's
become particularly effective in the areas
of human rights and the keeping of the
peace. It can and must become still more
effective as its internal administrative and
financial structure comes to reflect the
greater equality in our relationships.
I believe that the mutual respect which
characterized the negotiations, debate,
and conclusion of the Panama Canal
treaties can become the basis for new re-
lations in this hemisphere and the world.
With trust and cooperation, even the
most difficult and serious disputes can be
settled.
The other nations in this hemisphere,
all of you, are increasingly important to
my country and to the world. I do not
expect that our views will always coin-
cide, but I know that we do share the
same basic values. Working together in a
spirit of mutual respect and trust, we can
Message to the Congress. June 21, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In recent years, the Congress has
strengthened its oversight of Executive
Branch decisions. I welcome that effort.
Unfortunately, there has been increasing
use of one oversight device that can do
more harm than good-the "legislative
veto."
In the past four years at least 48 of
these provisions have been enacted-
more than in the preceding twenty years.
This proliferation threatens to upset the
constitutional balance of responsibilities
between the branches of government of
the United States. It represents a funda-
mental departure from the way the gov-
ernment has been administered through-
out American history. Unnecessary and
unwarranted legislative veto procedures
obstruct the efforts of my Administration
and most members of Congress to make
the administrative process quicker and
simpler and divert attention from our
common task of improving Federal pro-
grams and regulations.
Since taking office, I have several times
expressed my deep reservations about
1146
