Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
job, and do you definitely plan to run for
reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to your
last question is no, I don't definitely plan
to run for reelection. I've not addressed
that question at all.
Secondly, my biggest surprise-I guess
you mean in the nature of a disappoint-
ment-I think I have found that it's
much easier for me in my own administra-
tion to evolve a very complex proposal for
resolving a difficult issue than it is for
Congress to pass legislation and to make
that same decision.
The energy legislation is one example. I
never dreamed a year ago in April when
I proposed this matter to the Congress
that a year later it still would not be re-
solved. I think I've got a growing under-
standing of the Congress, its limitations
and its capabilities, and also its leadership,
which was a new experience for me alto-
gether, never having lived nor served in
the Federal Government in Washington.
As far as my attitude toward the job
is concerned, I like it. I've got a good
staff. We have now evolved, I think, a
good means by which we address major
issues and let everyone's views be known.
We sometimes have, contrary to what Mr.
Hughes said, too open an examination of
our debate process and decisionmaking
process, where the news media quite often
takes a preliminary proposal by a Secre-
tary or a matter that we are considering
as a final judgment, and I only make one
judgment, which is then released to the
press. That's been a problem for us. I
think I've got an outstanding Cabinet.
After this first 15 months, there is none
on the Cabinet that I would have pre-
ferred to have changed. I'm very satisfied
with them. I hope they're also satisfied.
So, I like the job. I feel at ease with it.
I'm doing the best I can with difficult
problems. All Presidents have shared
them. And I think, compared to my pred-
ecessors, we've done okay.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Abe Rosenthal,
the New York Times. In your speech
you've taken a position against imposed
wage and price controls.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. And yet in your speech, you yourself
impose wage controls on the Federal part
of the work force. That's not very vol-
untary. And you also talk about a Federal
pricing policy. Do you have any mental
tripwire at which point you will say that
this country must have an imposed wage
and price control policy, that the inflation
has gone too high and that voluntarism
simply has not worked?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I do not. I think
even if inflation should continue to esca-
late and reach a very high level, that wage
and price controls, mandatory wage and
price controls, would be ill-advised and
also counterproductive. I don't think they
would work. The only instance in which I
can think wage and price controls might
be applied would be a case of national
emergency, like an all-out war, some trag-
edy of that kind, where normal economic
processes would not be at work.
I don't think that my dealing with the
wages of people that I appoint or whose
executive management is my responsi-
bility is under the category of wage and
price controls. I think that the normal
processes of wages will be observed, and I
hope that the Federal Government can
break the deadlock that now exists be-
tween the private and public sector by
setting an example.
I think that what I have proposed in
the top executives in my own staff mem-
bers having no increases this year, and a
52-percent increase for the white-collar
729
