June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
country, which is the greatest nation on
Earth.
Thank you very much.
EARL G. GRAVES. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, members of the Cabinet and Con-
gress, honored guests:
On behalf of my fellow business men
and women, I want to thank you for host-
ing this afternoon's briefing and reception
and for giving recognition to the signifi-
cant contributions of black business per-
sons to the health and growth of the Na-
tion's economy. We at Black Enterprise
magazine are pleased to have played a
part in identifying, highlighting, and
bringing to the fore the tenacious and
valiant struggle for success so many mi-
nority business persons have made and are
continuing to make for a share of the
American dream.
Today I feel as if the pages of Black
Enterprise have come alive in the White
House, for we, the chief executives of this
Nation's leading black businesses, have
all come together in this Nation's Capi-
tal on an invitation from the President
of the United States to share with him
and his administration our economic
hopes and concerns, which is indeed an
historic moment.
We have come not for a social gather-
ing, but because this President has
pledged to do more to help minority en-
terprise than any other Chief Executive
officer in recent history and because he is
working hard to right the huge urban ills
of this Nation, which affect both our busi-
nesses and our lives. We are here to do
more than simply hold President Carter
to his promises; we are here to do all we
can to help this administration in its ef-
forts to strengthen the economic fiber of
this Nation and to make certain minority
businesses obtain their fair share of
American commerce.
We have come offering our input and
counsel with the hope that this invitation
represents a new level of constructive
communication between the black busi-
ness community and President Carter and
his administration.
Mr. President, on behalf of my fellow
business men and women, I would like to
present you with a bound copy of this
year's Black Enterprise 100.
THE PRESIDENT. I know how intense
the competition is. I understand that Mr.
Graves has been threatened already with
being kicked off the list next year unless
he works very hard this year. [Laughter]
Thank you again for being here as our
guests in your White House. And now my
wife and I would like to meet every one
of you personally, if you don't object.
And perhaps if you would just pause as
you shake hands, we would like very
much to have a photograph individually
with you. So we will meet you outside,
both of us.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:23 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Earl
G. Graves is publisher of Black Enterprise.
Visit of Prime Minister
Desai of India
Joint Communique. June 15, 1978
At the invitation of President Jimmy
Carter, the Prime Minister of the Re-
public of India, Morarji Desai, paid an
official visit to the United States of Amer-
ica between June 9-15, 1978.
In the talks the Indian participants
were:
Morarji Desai, Prime Minister, Gov-
ernment of India
Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Minister of
External Affairs, Government of
India
N. A. Palkhivala, Ambassador of In-
dia in Washington
1106
