June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We have been great admirers of the
economic growth and prosperity that has
come to India under this enlightened ad-
ministration. India is now prepared to be
independent of mandatory food imports;
in fact, in some products, is even a heavy
exporter of food in these days. India has
been and is a leader in the developing
world. The nonaligned movement has
seen and has benefited from the leadership
of that great nation.
India has always been in the forefront
of the expansion of basic human rights.
And the recent declaration of Prime Min-
ister Desai at the Special Session on Dis-
armament at the United Nations set a
standard for other leaders throughout the
world to assess and to emulate.
Under Prime Minister Desai, the Gov-
ernment of India has reaffirmed its com-
mitment not to acquire nuclear weapons
and to refrain from the explosion of
peaceful nuclear devices. The warmth of
the welcome extended to me, to my wife,
and on other occasions, to my own
mother, are a personal proof of the friend-
ship of the Indian people toward those of
our own country.
When I was in New Delhi with Prime
Minister Desai, he gave me a very
cher-
ished gift, a dual bust of Abraham Lin-
coln and Mahatma Gandhi, with inscrip-
tions thereon which again confirm that
our nations stand united in pursuing free-
dom, our adherence to the principles of
democracy, the protection of human
rights, our desire for world peace, and our
deep religious convictions.
Mr. Prime Minister, it is with the au-
thority of the entire American people that
I welcome you, a great leader, to our
country.
Thank you very much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, I am very grateful to you
for
your very warm words of welcome. I re-
turn to this beautiful country after 9 years
and with a feeling of deep satisfaction that
our bilateral relations are so much closer
than they have been for some time in the
past.
I have always strongly believed that
friendship between the millions of people
in our two countries and the governments
which represent them is of great signifi-
cance in a bilateral as well as global con-
text. There is a vast fund of good will that
binds us, an unshakable commitment to
the dignity of the individual, to the vital-
ity of the democratic way of life, which
adds a special qualitative dimension to
this relationship.
We have a similar vision of building a
world free from strife and tension. There
is no conflict or clash of fundamental in-
terest between us. On the other hand, we
are blessed with a great variety of shared
interests, the potential for which has per-
haps only begun to be tapped.
The complex and changing world in
which we live offers to both of us a range
of challenging possibilities for cooperative
endeavor which may not have existed in
the past. The United States, by virtue of
its size and strength, cannot but greatly
influence the course of human progress
and human events. The quality of lead-
ership in the United States is, therefore, of
crucial importance to all of us.
I would like to take this opportunity,
Mr. President, of expressing, if I may, the
admiration and respect that we in India
have for you personally, for your family,
with which we can claim with pardonable
pride of enjoying special links, and for the
leadership you are providing to your great
country at this delicate juncture in inter-
national affairs. And at this stage, Mr.
President, may I make a special request
1084
