Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
State Department and our Defense De-
partment, our military leaders, and I
made my recommendation to the Con-
gress-I will make it shortly on what I
consider to be in the best interests of our
own Nation with a well-balanced and
friendly attitude toward our allies and
friends in the Middle East.
In each one of these instances, the
arms sales proposals were made as a re-
sult of requests by the governments in-
volved. And I think that's the basis on
which the decision should be made, by my
making the request to the Congress, by
Congress considering my request for ap-
proval of the sales on the best interests
of our country as judged by me and the
Congress.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, many Democrats in
the House Ways and Means Committee,
including the chairman, are urging you
to scale back your net tax cut to some-
thing under $20 billion. And the Federal
Reserve Chairman today suggested that
you delay the effect of whatever tax cut
until next January 1st, all because ap-
parently they feel that it's inflationary
now, looking down the road.
Will you consider either of those sug-
gestions?
THE PRESIDENT. No. A $25 billion re-
duction in taxes on the American people
would not be inflationary. It is, in my
judgment and the best judgment of the
economic advisers who work with me,
about the right figure. We only have
about an 82-percent utilization of our
production capacity now. We do not
have excessive demand as a cause for in-
flationary increases in prices of our
products.
We have a cycle of wage increases,
price increases that kind of grow on one
another. And I don't believe it would be
advisable and I do not intend to change
my recommendation that the net between
the tax reforms and the tax reductions
would approximately equal to $25
billion.
I think that the best time to make it
effective is the 1st of October. I hope
that the Congress can act rapidly enough
to make the reduction effective then.
The last quarter's results of growth in
our national products showed some level-
ing off. It needs to be kept strong and
vigorous. If this tax proposal does not
go through, by the end of 1979 it would
cost every family in America, on the aver-
age, $600 in income, about $40 billion in
reduced income, because of a constrained
economy that did not continue to grow.
And if the tax reduction of $25 billion
was eliminated, it would mean that we
would have a million more people out of
work by the end of the first 12 months
after the tax reduction than we would
have otherwise.
So, for all those reasons and others,
I think the $25 billion in tax reduction
on our people, which is needed and which
would help them, is about the right
figure.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, just to follow up on
the Middle East thing, I would like to
pursue it just a little bit more maybe from
a slightly different angle. The Israeli
Foreign Minister, Mr. Dayan, has sug-
gested that Israel might be willing to
give up its own fighter planes in your
package if the sales were stopped to
Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
Now, in the light of your own pro-
fessed interest in cutting back on foreign
arms sales, would you consider withdraw-
ing the entire package to prevent a new
escalation of the arms race in the Middle
East?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I would not. As I
said earlier, the process through which
778
