Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
Interest in my family in your great
country of India runs very deep because
of my mother's years of service here with
you and because of her love for the In-
dian people. Being here with my wife ful-
fills a longstanding ambition of mine to
visit your great country and your great
people. I particularly want to learn about
your country and to learn from your
country the greatness of India, the cul-
ture of India, and your views on the
problems with which we all must deal to-
gether.
We want the other peoples of the world
to benefit from our consultation, our
friendship, our standard of moral values,
and our hope for world peace. The most
important bond between India and the
United States is our emphasis on the
questions and the commitments of the
spirit.
It is to be expected that the world's two
greatest and largest democracies are
bound together with a profound commit-
ment to the importance of moral values.
Our creeds and our religions differ in
some ways, but we agree that all faiths be
granted equal respect. Both nations are
certain that a concern with matters of
morals and the spirit is closely connected
with the strength of our own democratic
political systems.
My own Nation is built on firm and
fundamental beliefs. We believe that
gov-
ernments exist to protect the freedom and
the well-being of the people. We believe
that there are individual rights which
have a higher claim than powers of gov-
ernments. We believe that every human
being is entitled to certain basic rights
a right to choose one's own government, a
right to worship one's own God, a right
to think and to speak one's own mind
freely, a right to live where one chooses,
a right to learn and to be taught, a right
to work, to raise a family, and to eat so as
to be strong in mind and body, a right to
be cared for with skill and tenderness
when ill.
On these human rights can a world of
justice be built, and toward these ends the
people of America and the people of In-
dia must always work together.
May God's blessings and peace be with
you all. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m.
Following his remarks the President and Prime
Minister M. R. Desai went to the Rashtrapati
Bhavan for a meeting.
New Delhi, India
Remarks at the American Embassy to
Members of the American Community.
January 2, 1978
Ambassador Goheen and friends, both
those who come from the United States
and those who live here permanently, it's
good to be on American soil. And as I
walked down the path to shake hands
with those in front of the crowd, I was
impressed at the young age of your staff.
I would say the average age is about 7 or
8. [Laughter] We are homesick for Amy.
She happens to be in Colorado now, ski-
ing for the first time. We don't have any
snow in Georgia, and this is her first
experience.
But our country is so great and so
strong and, I hope, in its attitudes is en-
lightened, progressive, and also, benev-
olent.
It's almost 2 years ago that the people
of Iowa, represented so beautifully by
the group behind me,ยน exercised their very
sound political judgment by giving me my
first victory in the long road to election
Colleges in Dubuque, Iowa, had entertained
1 Forty-six singers from Clarke and Loras
the group prior to the President's remarks.
3
