May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I'm also committed to fair and firm
enforcement of a new Federal strip mine
law. West Virginia is already doing an
excellent job in reviewing mined areas.
We must meet our clean air require-
ments so that greater use of coal doesn't
endanger public health or environmental
quality. And we need to meet these goals
without giving undue advantage to the
coal from one region over the coal from
another.
To aid in this process, we must work to
ensure that we develop technologies not
just to burn coal as it is when it comes
from the ground but also to convert that
coal to synthetic liquids, gases, and solids
that will meet future needs for clean-
burning fuels.
West Virginia has been a leader in
technological development in this area
and will continue to lead as we move to-
ward private sector commercialization of
synthetics derived from coal.
Just recently, I intensified our own ef-
forts to bring these technologies on stream
through a series of design studies which
may lead to construction of a joint gov-
ernment-industry coal liquids demonstra-
tion plant here in West Virginia.
The Federal Government should not
shoulder the entire burden of developing
these technologies. However, working to-
gether, we can create the right climate
through joint ventures, loan guarantees,
proper tariff treatment to help speed
private sector development in partnership
with the government.
The Nation will need synthetics from
coal to meet our future energy needs, and
West Virginia will play an important
part in supplying both the coal and the
technology to make this hope and expec-
tation a reality.
The Congress passed, as Governor
Rockefeller mentioned, and I have signed
into law new black lung legislation, broad-
ening the benefits and putting them on a
sound financial footing. We also trans-
ferred the Mine Health and Safety Ad-
ministration from the Interior Depart-
ment to the Labor Department.
Despite all the progress, though, coal
mining is still one of the dirtiest and most
dangerous jobs on Earth. Operating a
mine has often been financially precari-
ous, subject to fast-changing demand and
an unforeseeable or unpredictable future.
All of this has left scars that are slow to
heal on West Virginia's lovely countryside
and also on its people. But the healing
process has begun. And I'm determined
that the rising demand for coal to meet
our Nation's energy needs will not leave
scars on your land or on the proud and
independent people of West Virginia.
Thank you very much. We are part-
ners together.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. in
the Little Theater at the Charleston Civic Cen-
ter. In his remarks he referred to Ed Wiles,
executive director of the West Virginia Coal
Association, Robert Scott, Chairman of the
Appalachian Regional Commission, and Arnold
Miller, president of the United Mine Workers.
President's Commission on the
Coal Industry
Executive Order 12062. May 26, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to estab-
lish, pursuant to the provisions of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I), a balanced forum to re-
view the state of the Nation's coal indus-
try, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment and Membership.
1-101. There is hereby established the
President's Commission on the Coal
Industry.
1006
