Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 2
termine for ourselves is whether we shall
meet them well or ill."
The Panama Canal is a vast, heroic
expression of that age-old desire to bridge
the divide and to bring people closer to-
gether. This is what the treaties are all
about.
We can sense what Roosevelt called
"the lift toward nobler things which
marks a great and generous people."
In this historic decision, he would join
us in our pride for being a great and gen-
erous people, with the national strength
and wisdom to do what is right for us
and what is fair to others.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the
Library at the White House. His remarks were
broadcast live on radio and television.
National Prayer Breakfast
Remarks at the 26th Annual Breakfast.
February 2, 1978
You may have noticed that the chair-
man of this breakfast and the master of
ceremonies is Senator Jim Allen of Ala-
bama. You may have noticed that our
main speaker is Max Cleland from Geor-
gia. You may have noticed that the Pres-
ident is Jimmy Carter from the same
State. And there may be some concern
among those among you about the secret
to the South's growing influence.
I might point out one coincidental
piece of evidence in that the very fine
Blackwood Quartet had six members in
it. I think up North a quartet still has
four members. [Laughter]
It's been a wonderful program. And it's
almost anticlimactic for anyone to try to
follow Max Cleland, who in his own life
and in his own words gives us a testi-
mony of what true faith can be and the
closeness of God means to us.
To me, God is real. To me, the rela-
tionship with God is a very personal thing.
God is ever-present in my life-sustains
me when I am weak, gives me guidance
when I turn to him, and provides for me
as a Christian through the life of Christ,
a perfect example to emulate in my ex-
periences with other human beings.
My wife and I worship together every
night, and often during the day I turn to
God in a quiet and personal way.
A few months back, the words "born
again" were vividly impressed on the con-
sciousness of many Americans who were
not familiar with their meaning. They've
been used in many headlines and on the
front covers of many magazines.
But for those of us who share the Chris-
tian faith, the words "born again" have
a very simple meaning-that through a
personal experience, we recommit our
lives as humble children of God, which
makes us in the realest possible sense
brothers and sisters of one another. Fam-
ilies are bound by the closest possible ties.
I noticed in a small news item this
morning that I was chosen "Lover of the
Year." [Laughter] It concerned me very
much until I read on and found that it was
because my wife and I have been in love
for more than 31 years, and that the ex-
emplification of a close family life is the
best expression of love.
But for a Member of Congress, for a
Governor, for an executive officer who
cares for hundreds of thousands of vet-
erans of war, for the Commanding Gen-
eral of the United States Marines, for for-
eign dignitaries, and for a President, the
word "family" has a broader meaning—
the family of all human beings and how
we might alleviate world tensions and
hatred and misunderstandings and death
and suffering and loneliness and aliena-
tion through a common understanding
and a common purpose and, sometimes,
even a common belief.
263
