Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 28
dous progress in trying to resolve these
major differences.
I just finished having lunch with Sen-
ator Talmadge, who's on the Finance
Committee of the Senate, who's also
chairman of the Agriculture Committee,
and we discussed farms and energy
primarily.
I think that we're flexible enough in the
executive branch to deal with almost any
reasonable solution that the House and
Senate conferees can evolve. There are
only three prerequisites as far as I'm con-
cerned. One is to have an increase in
conservation, an increase in production,
be fair to consumers and, at the same time,
not break the Federal budget.
So, within those bounds, which are
quite general, I'm flexible. There are some
deeply felt opinions on both sides of this
issue, based on 20 or 30 years of voting
record, and it's hard to get people to
accommodate those differences. They've
never been able to in the past.
So, I think we have a good chance to
have a comprehensive energy bill this year
that will at least let the American people
know where we are going. I think the
uncertainty is one of the crucial problems
that we have.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, along those lines, how
does your administration view the coal
miners strike, and do you think you can or
should do anything about it?
THE PRESIDENT. We are doing some-
thing about it. You know, we're not acting
as direct negotiators; I don't think it's
advisable for us to do that until we reach a
time when the national security is actually
endangered and the law requires me at
that point to take a more direct role.
My hope and expectation is that the
miners and the coal operators can resolve
the differences between them. We are of-
fering the services of the Federal medi-
ator. We're also offering the services of
the FBI and others to make sure the Fed-
eral laws are carried out. But I'm philo-
sophically adverse to an early entry of the
Federal Government into the negotiating
process.
Q. How long do you think it will have
to go on before it's a threat?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it depends on
the reserve supplies of coal. I think we
still have-well, I don't want to put an
exact figure on it. We monitor that every
week, and Ray Marshall makes a report
to me, but we still have several weeks of
adequate supply of coal on hand for elec-
tric power production, transportation, and
industry.
And I would hope and I do expect that
the coal contract question can be resolved
before the national emergency arises.
WAGE AND PRICE INCREASES
Q. Mr. President, earlier today George
Schultze spoke to us, and he talked about
the voluntary standard of behavior that
the administration is asking for businesses
to comply with. And he said—of course,
there's no regulation, but he said that the
administration will assert the public in-
terest. Can you explain to me what this
means, how the administration can speak
out?
THE PRESIDENT. That was Charlie,
Charles Schultze.
Q. Charles Schultze, pardon me, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've tried to
make this a joint, voluntary effort on the
part of government, business, and labor,
so that there could be a self-imposed re-
straint on escalating wages and prices.
Here again, I'm not in favor of wage and
price controls, either voluntary or man-
datory, and the degree to which labor and
business will cooperate is really up to
them.
235
