Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
nomic recovery and making our tax sys-
tem fairer and simpler.
of:
THE NEED FOR TAX REDUCTION
I propose net tax reductions consisting
-$17 billion in net income tax cuts for
individuals, through across-the-board
rate reductions and a new personal
credit, focused primarily on low and
middle-income taxpayers.
-$6 billion in net income tax cuts for
small and large corporations,
through reductions in the corporate
tax rates and extensions of the in-
vestment tax credit.
-$2 billion for elimination of the ex-
cise tax on telephone calls and a
reduction in the payroll tax for un-
employment insurance.
These tax reductions are a central part
of the Administration's overall economic
strategy, which will rely principally upon
growth in the private sector to create the
new jobs we need to achieve our high-em-
ployment objective. The tax reductions
will more than offset the recent increase
in social security taxes and will provide
the consumer purchasing power and busi-
ness investment strength we need to keep
our economy growing strongly and unem-
ployment moving down.
Together with the programs that I will
outline in my Budget Message, these tax
cuts should assure that our economy will
grow at a 42 to 5 percent pace through
1979, with unemployment declining to
between 52 and 6 percent by the end of
1979. Without the tax cuts, economic
growth would slow markedly toward the
end of 1978 and fall to about 3½ per-
cent in 1979. Unemployment would be
unlikely to fall below 6 percent and, by
the end of 1979, might be moving upward.
This tax program will mean up to one
million additional jobs for American
workers. It should lead to a pattern of
economic growth which is steady, sustain-
able, and noninflationary.
In addition, I believe that our tax-
payers, particularly those in the low and
middle-income brackets, deserve signifi-
cant tax relief-I am determined to re-
duce Federal taxes and expenditures as
a share of our Gross National Product.
THE NEED FOR TAX REFORM
The $25 billion in tax reductions are
net reductions, after taking account of $9
billion in revenue-raising reforms which I
am also proposing. Indeed, the full cuts
in personal and corporate tax rates which
I recommend would not be desirable in
the absence of significant reform.
But these reforms stand on their own
merits and would be long overdue even
if I were not proposing any net tax reduc-
tions to accompany them. They focus on
simplification for the individual taxpayer
and the elimination of some of the most
glaring tax preferences and loopholes.
Guided by the need for tax simplifica-
tion and tax equity, I propose that Con-
gress adopt reforms that would:
-Sharply curtail tax shelters.
-Eliminate the deductions claimed by
businesses for theater and sporting
tickets, yachts, hunting lodges, club
dues, and first-class airfare and limit
the deduction for the cost of meals to
50 percent.
-Provide a taxable bond option for
local governments and modify the
tax treatment of industrial develop-
ment bonds.
-Strengthen the minimum tax on
items of preference income for in-
dividuals.
-Repeal the special alternative tax on
capital gains, which only benefits in-
dividuals in the highest tax brackets.
-Replace the personal exemption and
159
