Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 5, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With a Group of Editors and News
Directors. April 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Some of you have been
here for previous meetings like this, I
noticed. We've had several hundred
editors and top news executives come to
the White House for these small group
meetings in the last 15 months, and
they've been very helpful to us and, I
hope, also helpful to your own readers
and listeners and viewers.
What I've done as a matter of course is
to outline some of the current questions
that I'm addressing and problems that
I'm trying to solve, and then spend what
time we have available answering your
questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Right now, I'd say that getting the
energy legislation passed is a top domestic
priority. Dealing with the Federal bu-
reaucracy is always a constant challenge,
and I think the crux of the whole reor-
ganization effort is in civil service reform,
which is now being considered by the
Post Office and Civil Service Committee
in the House.
We have tax reform in the Ways and
Means Committee. I think we'll do much
better on the floor of the House and the
Senate, perhaps, than the present pros-
pects appear to be in the Ways and Means
Committee.
We have, in addition to that, a con-
stant pressure from inflationary growth.
Bob Strauss has been designated as my
direct representative to deal with both
wage and price increases, to try to hold
them down. He's slowly getting control
of that new assignment. He's keeping his
former assignment as the Special Trade
Representative. As you can see, those two
items are very closely interrelated.
But this doesn't mean that the other
Cabinet officers and executive personnel
are not directly involved. Mike Blumen-
thal, Charlie Schultze, Ray Marshall,
Juanita Kreps-all of our Cabinet on a
domestic basis are trying to concentrate
with an ever-increasing intensity on con-
trolling inflation. The latest statistics this
year don't look good. We've had a fairly
rapid increase in farm prices, which I
think were warranted and needed after
the very low prices last year. That's show-
ing up now on the Consumer Price In-
dex, as well as the adverse effects from the
winter weather and the coal strike.
805
