May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
be celebrating a tremendous Democratic
victory in Illinois and also in Cook
County.
Thank you for letting me be part of it.
God bless all of you. Thank you.
[The President spoke at 8:02 p.m. and then
proceeded to the International Ballroom for
the major portion of the program. His remarks
follow:]
Mayor Bilandic, Senator Stevenson,
Chairman Dunne, Mrs. Daley, distin-
guished friends of mine, and loyal Demo-
crats of Cook County and of Illinois:
I was here 2 years ago, but not as Presi-
dent. It's been a long time since a Demo-
cratic President came to address the Cook
County Democratic fundraising banquet,
but I predict that for the next 15 or 20
years, you'll have that opportunity.
I'm always glad to come back here. I
don't know what to think of a chairman
who would tell a joke about President's
kinfolks. [Laughter] We've never learned
how to spell very good on the farm. I
think I know how to spell the chairman's
name, though. D-o-n-e. [Laughter]
As the mayor and others have pointed
out, my administration, my family, have
been very close to Chicago since I've been
in office. You've got a beautiful city, a
superb administration here, the envy of
the Nation. Beautiful architecture, which
has already been pointed out, great build-
ings that have meant a lot to my predeces-
sors in the White House, the Merchandise
Mart and the Kennedy-[laughter].
When I came to Chicago in the early
stages of my campaign, I didn't have
much to do, so I went around and looked
at some of the buildings designed by
Frank Lloyd Wright. My mother Lillian's
favorite is the Sears Building, because we
grew up with the Sears catalog. My
brother Billy prefers Playboy Towers.
[Laughter]
But I would like for you all to know
that you're not the only progressive com-
munity in the Nation; Plains is making a
lot of progress. We've got running water
and electricity now. When you plug in the
electric razor, the streetlights go out, but
it's still a good city. [Laughter]
I was down there this past weekend at
the wedding of my brother Billy's
daughter. It was a tremendous celebration
out in the country, and the only problem
was when Billy got up to offer a toast to
the bride with several hundred people
watching, the pull tab wouldn't work.
[Laughter]
I was impressed, as were you, with the
quality of your Democratic slate of can-
didates. Alex Seith has been a friend of
mine for a long time. He's a hard worker.
He's going from door to door. He's listen-
ing to the people of Illinois. He's got a
tough campaign on his hands. With your
help, his tremendous experience in inter-
national affairs and his knowledge of your
State, growing every day, will make it pos-
sible for him to come to Washington and
to join me and the other members of the
Illinois Delegation.
Mike Bilandic, a fresh and exciting
young man, who needs your help, not just
tonight with a contribution to the Demo-
cratic Party, but a dedication to make sure
that these men and women who run as
Democrats are not disappointed on Elec-
tion Day. And every one of you are to
commit yourselves in a difficult election
year, in some cases challenging incum-
bents who are difficult to dislodge, but you
are to become, in effect, individual cam-
paign managers and use your own influ-
ence, your own time, your own effort for
the next few months until November, get-
ting your family and your neighbors, the
folks with whom you work, to go out and
help them be successful in November. No
matter how hard they work, no matter
how exciting they are, they can't win
unless there's a sustained commitment to
them by all of you 7,000 tonight and all
the others who look to you with envy and
982
