Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 5
house of representatives at the age of 21,
he devoted his life to public service-a
total of 38 years in office.
He attained justified, national recogni-
tion for his performance in the Senate at
a time of national crisis.
Senator Montoya was part of the an-
cient and proud Hispanic tradition of
New Mexico. My deepest sympathy goes
out to his family at his death.
NOTE: Mr. Montoya served in the U.S. Senate
from 1964 to 1977.
tion, and to overcome the practical man-
agement and enforcement problems
which occur in areas of the high seas
where United States origin salmon inter-
mingle with salmon originating in other
countries.
I transmit also for the information of
the Senate the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Protocol and
associated documents.
I urge the Senate to act favorably at
an early date on this Protocol.
The White House,
June 5, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
North Pacific Fisheries
Convention
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol.
June 5, 1978
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Protocol
Amending the High Seas Fisheries of the
North Pacific Ocean between the United
States, Canada, and Japan for Senate ad-
vice and consent to ratification. The Pro-
tocol, along with accompanying Agreed
Minutes and Memoranda of Understand-
ing, were signed in Tokyo on April 25,
1978.
The Protocol amends the existing In-
ternational Convention for the High Seas
Fisheries of the North Pacific Ocean. Un-
der the Protocol salmon of United States
origin will receive substantially greater
protection than afforded under the exist-
ing International Convention for the
High Seas Fisheries of the North Pacific
Ocean signed on May 9, 1952. An amend-
ment to the existing Convention, rather
than sole reliance on the provisions of the
Fishery Conservation and Management
Act, is being sought in order to obtain the
continuing benefits of the abstention prin-
ciple established by the existing Conven-
Budget Rescission and Deferrals
Message to the Congress. June 5, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
budget authority previously provided by
one proposal to rescind $48 million in
the Congress. In addition, I am reporting
three new deferrals totalling $8.1 million
and revisions to three previously trans-
mitted deferrals increasing the amount
deferred by $0.4 million.
The rescission proposal affects the mili-
tary assistance program. The new defer-
rals and the revisions to existing deferrals
involve programs in the Departments of
Agriculture, Commerce, the Interior, and
the Treasury.
The details of the rescission proposal
and the deferrals are contained in the
attached reports.
The White House,
June 5, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescission
and deferrals are printed in the Federal Reg-
ISTER of June 9, 1978.
1041
