Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The first treaty says, and I quote: "The
United States of America and the Repub-
lic of Panama commit themselves to pro-
tect and defend the Panama Canal. Each
Party shall act, in accordance with its con-
stitutional processes, to meet the danger
resulting from an armed attack or other
actions which threaten the security of the
Panama Canal or [of] ships transiting it."
The neutrality treaty says, and I quote
again: "The United States of America
and the Republic of Panama agree to
maintain the regime of neutrality estab-
lished in this Treaty, which shall be main-
tained in order that the Canal shall remain
permanently neutral. . . .”
And to explain exactly what that
means, the statement of understanding
says, and I quote again: "Under (the
Neutrality Treaty), Panama and the
United States have the responsibility to
assure that the Panama Canal will remain
open and secure to ships of all nations.
The correct interpretation of this principle
is that each of the two countries shall, in
accordance with their respective constitu-
tional processes, defend the Canal against
any threat to the regime of neutrality, and
consequently [shall] have the right to act
against the Canal or against the peaceful
transit of vessels through the Canal."
It is obvious that we can take whatever
military action is necessary to make sure
that the canal always remains open and
safe.
Of course, this does not give the United
States any right to intervene in the in-
ternal affairs of Panama, nor would our
military action ever be directed against
the territorial integrity or the political in-
dependence of Panama.
Military experts agree that even with
the Panamanian Armed Forces joined
with us as brothers against a common en-
emy, it would take a large number of
American troops to ward off a heavy at-
tack. I, as President, would not hesitate to
deploy whatever armed forces are neces-
sary to defend the canal, and I have no
doubt that even in a sustained combat,
that we would be successful. But there is
a much better way than sending our sons
and grandsons to fight in the jungles of
Panama.
We would serve our interests better by
implementing the new treaties, an action
that will help to avoid any attack on the
Panama Canal.
What we want is the permanent right
to use the canal-and we can defend this
right through the treaties-through real
cooperation with Panama. The citizens of
Panama and their government have al-
ready shown their support of the new part-
nership, and a protocol to the neutrality
treaty will be signed by many other na-
tions, thereby showing their strong ap-
proval.
The new treaties will naturally change
Panama from a passive and sometimes
deeply resentful bystander into an active
and interested partner, whose vital inter-
ests will be served by a well-operated
canal. This agreement leads to coopera-
tion and not confrontation between our
country and Panama.
Another question is: Why should we
give away the Panama Canal Zone? As
many people say, "We bought it, we paid
for it, it's ours."
I must repeat a very important point:
We do not own the Panama Canal Zone.
We have never had sovereignty over it.
We have only had the right to use it.
The Canal Zone cannot be compared
with United States territory. We bought
Alaska from the Russians, and no one has
ever doubted that we own it. We bought
the Louisiana Purchases-Territories
from France, and that's an integral part of
the United States.
260
