May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment in our country. It was sapping
away the economic strength of our Na-
tion and, I think, was a very depressing
thing for all the American people. The
unemployment rate was almost 8 per-
cent. And with the help of the private
sector of our country in particular, busi-
ness and labor, with the cooperation be-
tween the White House and the Con-
gress, we initiated joint programs which
have had remarkably successful achieve-
ments.
In the last 16 months we've seen a net
increase of 52 million jobs, an almost
unprecedented achievement. And I think
it's kind of revitalized the country's at-
titude toward the future.
Of course, we still have economic prob-
lems, as you well know. One is the un-
anticipated increase in the inflation this
year, which we are trying to address as
enthusiastically as we can and with the
same kind of partnership that we estab-
lished and which was so successful in
dealing with unemployment.
And the other thing that we are work-
ing on today and tonight with you is to
deal with those who have not benefited
from the reduction in the unemployment
rate. We still have 6 percent of the Amer-
ican people who don't know that we've
made progress with unemployment, be-
cause they still are unemployed. And
quite often they are the ones that are the
most difficult to employ and to keep on
a job permanently.
Part of the problem is, I would say,
inadvertent discrimination. We hire
young people, women, minority groups
last. And when economic necessities fall
on us, or when we make a routine change,
they are the first ones that are discharged
from their jobs.
Quite often they are the ones who need
a job most because they don't have
mobility and they are often illiterate and
they are not part of the social structure
where they can be adequately supported
from their neighbors. And they don't
know the opportunities that do exist just
in a different part of town or over the
hill in a different community where a
much more qualified person could go
and find a job.
We are here tonight to begin a new
partnership between government and the
private sector, to ease this particular diffi-
cult problem that's known as structural
employment. We urgently need training
and job opportunities for the large num-
ber of unskilled men and women who
have been left jobless in these times of
relatively high employment in our coun-
try. And where we have the greatest need
for jobs is in the private sector, jobs that
can lead to useful careers for people that
sometimes don't even know the meaning
of the word "career." And I'm asking,
with every anticipation of success, that
business and labor join me in this effort.
This will involve unprecedented coop-
eration at all levels of government—the
local, State, and the Federal levels of gov-
ernment-private business, labor, as we
establish Private Industry Councils to de-
velop local programs.
I'm happy to note that this request to
establish these councils has already been
approved by the full committees in the
House and Senate as part of the CETA
reauthorization bill.
We've also asked Congress for $400
million for fiscal year 1979, beginning
October 1 of this year, to fund training
programs in the private sector. As the
councils, that will be established with
your help, and the local CETA officials
work together, along with the targeted
tax credit that we've sent to Congress,
the Private Industry Councils will be the
tools that we need for a strong and effec-
tive attack on this persistent problem.
960
