Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 24
carry on this very fine tradition. It's al-
ways a matter of great trepidation when
portraits are unveiled. Most of the pub-
licity recently about portraits has not been
nearly so favorable as we are experiencing
today, with Mrs. Churchill burning the
portrait of her former husband, with
President Johnson having had quite a flap
when his first portrait was unveiled, and
lately when the distinguished Secretary of
State Henry Kissinger did not either like
the work of the artist who tried to portray
him for his posterity.
But I think today we've got a wonder-
ful example of superb artistry, talent, and
sensitivity about the character and de-
meanor of the subjects chosen. And I
would like to ask Everett Raymond Kinst-
ler, who did the portrait of President
Ford, who sat for this portrait out in Vail,
and also for Mr. Felix de Cossio, who is a
native of Cuba, originally, and who did
the beautiful portrait of Mrs. Ford, to
come on the stage. And then while you are
here on the stage, joining us as part of the
audience, President Ford will make his
remarks.
PRESIDENT FORD. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, Mr. Castro, my former
friends and colleagues in the House and
Senate, and other guests:
It's a great privilege for Betty and my-
self to be here on this occasion. May I ex-
press my deep gratitude on behalf of both
of us to the President and to Mrs. Carter
for their friendship, their many kind-
nesses, and I can say that the relationship
[Laughter] I would say that Mr. de Cossio
did a beautiful job, and I'm very proud
of not only the portrait but what it
portrays.
We are enthusiastic about both, in all
honesty, and we are naturally very, very
proud that our portraits will be here in
the President's house and will reflect our
great love and affection for this place and
all that it means to the American people.
I can't thank Ray Kinstler and Mr. de
Cossio sufficiently for their tolerance and
understanding as they worked with us last
summer and for the fine job that they did.
There was never a moment in our period
that we would ever not accept the fine
work that has been done by both. And we
thank you, Ray, and Mr. de Cossio, for
the fine work that is in evidence here on
this occasion.
Again, thank you, Mr. Castro, and to
the White House Historical Association.
And we again express our deep gratitude
and appreciation to President Carter and
Mrs. Carter for their friendship and
many, many kindnesses. It's a pleasure to
be here.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:38 p.m. at
the ceremony in the East Room at the White
House. Nash Castro is vice chairman of the
board of directors of the White House His-
torical Association.
Prior to the ceremony, President Carter and
former President Ford met privately in the
Oval Office.
has been one we've enjoyed and that we're United Service Organizations
most grateful to have. And I thank you
very, very much, Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter.
I had not seen the actual portraits until
just a few minutes ago. I've seen them in
the process of being painted. I've seen
several photographs. I would say that in
my case, considering what Ray Kinstler
had to work with, he did very well.
Remarks at a White House Reception.
May 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
welcome all of you to the White House,
and I want to congratulate Bob Hopc.
He's getting ready to start on a second
career, as you know. He'll be making com-
mercials full-time [laughter]—advertis-
965
