Jan. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ington perspective with the permanent
White House press corps and a perma-
nent at least a temporary White House
resident [laughter]—and it adds a new
perspective to a different perspective to
the news coverage, to hear what is of con-
cern to you and your readers and listen-
ers and viewers.
Thank you very much for coming.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on January 28.
10th Anniversary of Ford's
Theatre
Remarks at a White House Reception.
January 29, 1978
It's a great honor for me as President
of the United States to welcome all of
you here.
First of all, I would like to thank you
for your own interest in Ford Theatre and
for your generosity in keeping it a live
tribute to the past and an opportunity for
the future.
Many of you are performers or com-
posers or writers, and I want to thank you
also for keeping this wonderful spirit
alive.
It's a great honor to have the chair-
person of this year's event with us, Millie
O'Neill. And I'd like for us to recognize
her now.
I think all of you know that 10 years
ago this month—I think the 30th of Jan-
uary, 1968-Ford Theatre was opened
again, after more than a hundred years of
being closed, as a tribute to President Lin-
coln, who was killed there in April of 1965
[1865]. As a result of that tragedy for our
country, there was a shock that went
through the consciousness of our Nation.
That was the same month that the war
ended. And people from the North and
South began to rebuild what had been
rent apart.
But it wasn't the character of Lincoln
to have a source of entertainment, trag-
edy, and humor kept closed and isolated
from the people of our Nation. And so a
unique occurrence has been recognized
tonight that happened 10 years ago, when
a national historical site was opened, not
as a museum, a closed or a dead thing just
to be looked at and admired, but an open
and a live thing which is the source of
both entertainment and inspiration for us
all.
I think that you know that Frankie
Hewitt has been an integral part of that
evolution. And I know from studying the
history of the theatre that it could have
gone the other way. Not only has it been
innovative but its quality has not been
that of the first showing of entertainment
that later died, just to say that we had a
temporary accomplishment. It's been the
birthplace
birthplace of quality entertainment,
which has gone on to thrill the whole Na-
tion. And there's been a reaching out and
an offering of new opportunities for those
who provide this delightful experience for
all Americans.
So, as a southerner, as a President, I
would like to say that I'm very proud of
all of you for helping to unite the con-
sciousness of our Nation to remember the
past, but also to prepare for the future
with confidence and also with pleasure.
That's the way President Lincoln would
have liked it. And you've honored him in
performing as you have in keeping Ford
Theatre alive.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:28 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. In his re-
marks, he referred to Mildred A. O'Neill, gen-
eral chairman of the anniversary celebration,
242
