Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
you won't have to suffer because of a lack
of time.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Today is, I guess, a typical day in the
life of a President. I thought I might just
outline briefly a few of the things that we
are addressing on a very current basis.
I've been on the phone and meeting
privately with Cy Vance this morning
and last night on the Israeli-Lebanese
question, which is a matter of great con-
cern to us and which involves not only
our nations but also the United Nations
today.
We're working to try to understand
the possibilities of the coal strike being
resolved. As you know, this is the third
contract that has been negotiated, the
second one that the bargaining council
has approved, and we're trying to moni-
tor that progress and also to continue the
good increase in coal production that has
taken place since the Taft-Hartley Act
was invoked. We've had a good many
nonunion members go back to work.
There's been a minimum of violence
around the country. And some union
mines are back in operation, and the rate
of coal production is increasing steadily.
At the same time, we are trying to help
with the Rhodesian question and moni-
toring carefully the withdrawal, now
complete, of the Somalis from the Ogaden
area.
We are dealing in the House with the
Humphrey-Hawkins bill. The vote is
today. We're trying to hold our tax pack-
age together, prevent a reopening of the
entire question of social security, and in
the Senate, of course, we have the crucial
vote on the Panama Canal treaties this
afternoon. Debate is going on now, and
I understand another Senator just en-
dorsed the treaties, which is very encour-
aging to us.
These are some of the matters that are
my responsibility just today, and I don't
go into the minor ones. I've got to make
a major speech on defense policy tomor-
row morning at Wake Forest College in
Winston-Salem, and that's what I've just
been working on when I came in here.
And I'm going to go out tomorrow morn-
ing and afternoon on one of our major
nuclear aircraft carriers to see at first
hand some of the new weapons systems
that I have to decide about in
prepara-
tion of the budget and in shaping our de-
fense capabilities.
I'd like to answer any questions you
might have, and I'll try to be rapid—and
brief answers.
QUESTIONS
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Wicker
from Dothan, Alabama. And I'm work-
ing in West Germany with Stars and
Stripes. As you probably know, the value
of the dollar, declining dollar, is of great
value to our troops over there. I just won-
der if you could shed any light on the
impact this is going to have on NATO
in the near future.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've been
pleased in the last few weeks to see the dol-
lar stabilizing as it relates to the deutsche
mark. When I was overseas, it was down,
hovering around two deutsche marks per
dollar, and now I think it's up to 2.05,
2.06, 2.04, right in that neighborhood.
So, we have been acting with the Ger-
mans and with the prospect of acting in
an equivalent way with the Japanese to
stabilize the irregularities in the market.
We have a strong reason to believe that
this year we'll see an improvement in the
dollar, in its value, related to other cur-
rencies. And I'll give you two or three
very quick reasons.
H
518
