Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
[Laughter]
I cannot hope to match the richness and
the profound remarks of President Pérez.
I will try to respond more fully to eco-
nomic matters in my speech tomorrow
morning to the Congress of Venezuela.
But tonight, I do want to offer a few com-
ments of my own.
As I said, I'm delighted to be with
friends in Venezuela, not only because of
the path that our nations are walking to-
gether but also because of the rare, per-
sonal friendship that has developed be-
tween President Pérez and me.
Since I took office, I've had an op-
portunity to meet with many foreign
leaders-last year, more than 65. And in
different ways, I have learned a lot about
them all. But there are no others who have
equaled the guidance and the vision of
President Pérez, nor with whom I have
felt such kinship of purpose. It is no co-
incidence that this is the third opportunity
which I have arranged for extensive con-
sultations with him.
President Pérez knows that I look upon
him, in spite of his great youth, as a senior
statesman. And he deserves this title in the
finest sense of the term, for he has proven
his statesmanship and also the maturity
of his judgment.
The most satisfying aspect of our friend-
ship is that it clearly reflects the compati-
bility between our governments and also
between our people.
Venezuela proclaims its belief that the
cause of human rights must and will pre-
vail, and we agree. Venezuelans are work-
ing to prevent the proliferation of nuclear
weapons, and so are we.
The leaders of your country believe that
each nation of the world should be free to
manage its own internal affairs, free from
unwarranted outside intervention, and the
same belief exists among the leaders of our
people in the United States.
We both believe that people in every
part of the world, under every economic
system, should have democratic rights to
participate in their own government and
to shape their own destiny. We both know
that nations with wealth to spare have an
obligation to share it. And here, as in
other areas, Venezuela has set an example
for us to try to equal. We both are aware
of the increasing sense of regional need
and common purpose that exists among
the nations of the Caribbean and of that
nation's tremendous potential for future
growth and harmony.
Venezuela and the United States are
both attempting to restrict the excessive
trade in weapons and to reduce the ar-
senals which already exist, and we will re-
double our common efforts in the near
future to realize this hope.
We both believe that nations must co-
operate in the world's energy problems
through conservation, better distribution,
research and development, and explora-
tion of new energy sources. We both be-
lieve that direct consultations and nego-
tiations among nations can resolve even
major differences and are the surest path
to peace.
experience that exchanges among our peo-
We both have learned through happy
build perma-
ple, especially students, can
nent bonds of understanding between us.
Venezuela again has shown how these
bonds are built with the Ayacucho Foun-
dation, which permits students from each
country to study in the other. Because of
this visit and others on my journey, and
in memory of your friend, our great
American statesman, Hubert Humphrey,
I would like to announce tonight my in-
tention to establish a program of Hum-
phrey scholarships which will bring poor
but outstanding students from Latin
America and throughout the world to
study in the colleges of the United States.
618
