May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Our second challenge is to see that our
legal system lives up to its noblest tradition
of honesty and impartiality, so that all
people stand equal before the bar of
justice.
One of the most important steps that
we can take is to restore public confidence
in our system of justice, is to ensure that
government decisions are thoroughly im-
partial, and that personal interests and in-
fluence have no part. I've required all
major appointees of mine, as a condition
of accepting office, to disclose their per-
sonal financial interests. I've also re-
quired them to pledge that after their
term of public service is over, they would
forgo all contacts with their former agen-
cy in Government for 1 year.
Last year, I proposed legislation to
make these standards a permanent part
of American law. In its current form,
this ethics legislation would extend sim-
ilar standards to the legislative and ju-
dicial branches of our Government. It's
already passed the Senate and cleared the
Rules Committee in the House and is
ready for floor action without delay.
Last week, the House passed a bill I
supported requiring those organizations
which do significant lobbying of Congress
to disclose their activities to the public. Al-
though lobbying is a constitutionally pro-
tected activity, the American people have
a right to know what major forces are
affecting the legislative processes. It's
time now for the Senate to follow the
lead of the House and pass a lobby reform
bill.
Law enforcement agencies must set a
clear example for their respect for the law.
Recently, as the number of undocumented
aliens has grown, there's been a disturb-
ing trend particularly in your part of the
country toward routine police harassment
of our Mexican American citizens. I know
that your own bar association has studied
this problem.
Last month, the Justice Department in-
tervened in a harassment case in Texas
where three policemen had been convicted
for the death of a Mexican American
prisoner. In filing for a review of the 1-
year jail term given to the convicted men,
the Justice Department said, and I quote,
"The public perception of inequality and
the belief that the life of a Mexican Amer-
ican citizen has little value can only do
damage to respect for the laws and belief
in justice."
This kind of harassment must stop, and
my administration, working with you, will
do what it can to see that it does. More-
over, we've submitted legislation to
Congress now which will stop the flow of
illegal immigration while fully protecting
the rights of our Hispanic citizens.
When I was Governor of Georgia, I
appointed judges on the basis of merit
alone. And one of my first acts as Presi-
dent was to create nominating commis-
sions to recommend candidates to me for
all appointments as Federal circuit
judges. I'm pleased that many Senators,
including those from California, have
now set up similar commissions at the dis-
trict court level.
The passage of the Omnibus Judgeship
Act, now pending in a House-Senate con-
ference committee, will provide a test
for the concept of merit selection. The
conferees have recently agreed that the
President should set standards and
guidelines governing the selection of dis-
trict judges, and I intend to use this au-
thority to encourage establishment of
more merit panels and to open the se-
lection process.
The passage of this act-which will cre-
ate 152 Federal judgeships-offers a
unique opportunity to make our judiciary
more fully representative of our popula-
tion. We have an abominable record to
date. Of the 525 Federal judges, only 20
838
