Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
legislation already being considered by
the Congress.
PRESIDENT'S PARTICIPATION IN TOWN
MEETINGS
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. My name is Susan Zaremski from
Winnacunnet High School in Hampton,
New Hampshire. And I was wondering,
how seriously are you really going to take
our questions and concerns said today?
THE PRESIDENT. I have only one pro-
fession that completely occupies my life,
and that is to be a good President of the
United States. And one of the constant
fears that I have is that I will act in a way,
as President, that's incompatible with and
contrary to the concerns and hopes and
dreams and aspirations of the American
people.
This is the fourth or fifth townhall-
type meeting that I've had. I have no idea
ahead of time what questions will be
asked me. There's no way that I can brief
myself before I come in here, predicting
what your questions will be. And I have
no influence nor do I want to have any
on what you ask me. But I presume that
after an hour and a half of this kind, when
I analyze what the questions are, that
fairly well represents what your interests
might be here in New Hampshire.
I had a similar meeting, as you know,
last night in Maine. I've had other ones
in Mississippi; another one in Massa-
chusetts. And I listen very carefully. The
tone of the questions and the response
of the audience is of profound impor-
tance to me and has a great effect on me.
So, I don't know of any better way to get
the sense of our Nation than to listen to
your questions and to observe your re-
actions.
There is no possible way that you
could affect the future deliberations of a
President any better than through this
kind of forum. So, I would say that
your
effect on me has been and will be very
profound.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
GOVERNOR MELDRIM THOMSON, JR.
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I'm
Joseph Danko from Merrimack Valley
High School in Penacook, New Hamp-
shire. Two questions: How do you feel
about Governor Thomson's recent trip to
South Africa? Do you agree with his
statements dealing with equal rights?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he has a right
to go to South Africa.
You know, I told you I was going to
be candid with you. There are very few
things on which your Governor and I
agree. [Laughter] And specifically, his
comments during and after his trip to
South Africa, in my opinion, are com-
pletely contrary to what this country
stands for. But at the same time, one of
the things that this country stands for
is the right of free speech. And he has
just as much of a right to express his
opinion as do I.
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. My
name is Beth Loy, and I represent Tim-
berlane High School in Plaistow, New
Hampshire. The tax break of $250 for
college students is such a ridiculously low
figure compared to the total cost of about
$4,000 for a college year. How was this
figure arrived at?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't advocate a tax
credit as a means to help finance college
education for the middle-income fami-
lies. On the contrary, what we have pro-
382
