Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
superlative positions in government and
in business and in the professions to repre-
sent people in a much broader sense.
These are considerations that are very
important to me and to you. And I would
like there to be formed between me and
you a continuing working relationship
and a partnership.
This doesn't have to be related at all
times directly to me alone. If a matter
involves the Defense Department, then
Secretary Alexander or Secretary Brown
would be the natural one for you to go to.
You don't have to come to me. And if it
involves trade, exports, commerce, Sec-
retary Kreps is the one for you to ap-
proach. And I think you know all the
Cabinet officers. If it involves foreign af-
fairs, obviously the Secretary of State or
Andy Young would be ones that you
could relate to easily.
And I would hope that your own in-
terests would expand far beyond the
boundaries of our own country. We have
a very great advantage over other nations
in the ethnic American groups that com-
prise our country's population. When I
go to Poland, the Polish American group
is a reservoir not only of advice and coun-
sel to me about historical occurrences or
problems that presently exist in Poland,
but they provide an introduction for me
to that country in Eastern Europe that I
may not be able to get at all through the
State Department. But those people who
still have relatives and friends who cor-
respond and travel and visit can provide
that sound, human basis on which better
relations can be predicated.
The same thing, obviously, applies to
our long-time friends and allies in Eu-
rope-Italy, Germany, France, and so
forth. But I think there is a new awaken-
ing interest in our country now in Africa.
And many of you have a special interest
in Africa. You're trusted just because you
happen to be black. And I think one of
the greatest things that's happened to me
in foreign affairs has been the appoint-
ment of Andy Young at the United Na-
tions, who gives a sense of compassion,
understanding, sensitivity, trust, the ease
of communication, that makes him irre-
placeable and also gives him a sense of
security so that he's not timid, as you may
have noticed, in speaking out when he
disagrees with me. [Laughter]
Well, you can do the same, perhaps on
a more limited basis, but that's the kind of
support and help and counsel that I need
from you. And of course, all these efforts
don't have to be through government. I
would hope that if you have a product to
export, that you might use your position
as a trader in international affairs to
strengthen the ties of friendship and un-
derstanding between our country and
those countries that encompass your new
customers.
When I went to Nigeria, for instance, I
took Jessie Hill along with me. He is an
oldtime friend of mine. And he was able
to expand the influence of my presence
there
many times over. And I think this is
the kind of thing that all of you can do.
So, I would just like to say that although
you have reached a position of great
achievement with justifiable pride and the
worth of recognition, I would like for you
to keep your horizons broadened in the
future, because you are secure now in busi-
ness and professional achievement. And I
would hope that whether or not you ever
serve in government on a full-time basis,
that you might try to expand the bene-
ficial influence of our country.
You have a great success story to tell
and to demonstrate in a personal way,
not only for you, your family, your
friends, your associates, but also for our
1105
