Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 4
available of contraceptive devices for
those who believe in their use, and en-
couragement of the facility with which
unwanted children perhaps can be
adopted, is a much better alternative.
I just am personally and politically op-
posed to anything that encourages abor-
tions if there is a reasonable alternative to
them.
SELECTION OF U.S. ATTORNEYS AND
JUDGES
Q. Back to the question of judgeships.
The House version of the omnibus judge-
ship bill contained a merit selection
amendment requiring establishment of
merit selection guidelines and procedures.
Your administration has failed to sup-
port this. Will you reconcile your cam-
paign promise and support this?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm in favor of any-
thing that's possible, either done by ad-
ministrative act, voluntary action on the
part of the U.S. Senators, or congres-
sional action that would guarantee merit
selection of every person appointed to a
position of responsibility in the judiciary.
That includes U.S. attorneys, district
judges, and circuit judges.
The problem arises because for the last
150 years, Members of the U.S. Senate
have always felt and still feel that a major
portion of the selection of district Federal
judges in their own States ought to be a
joint responsibility between themselves
and the President.
Within the framework of my own au-
thority, I have acted already. And I
would favor an extension of that author-
ity through congressional action, as you've
requested as you've asked.
Let me say that there are some things
that I can do, and I've done them.
I have hand-written a letter to all the
Democratic Senators-when I first came
into office-asking them to set up merit
selection commissions. Already, 18 have
done this, an unprecedented thing for
Senators to do.
Secondly, we have made every ap-
pointment, whether recommended by a
U.S. Senator or chosen by me, strictly on
the basis of merit. There has never been
even an allegation that an appointee that
I've sent to the Senate, anywhere in the
judiciary, was made other than on the
basis of merit.
On the circuit judgeships, in every sin-
gle instance in the United States, we now
are making those on the basis of five or
more top names selected by a superb blue
ribbon panel to me, and then I make the
selection from those five or six names on
the basis of merit.
The same with the U.S. attorneys.
We've still got 25 or 30 Republican U.S.
attorneys. Habitually, under all previous
administrations, so far as I know, the first
day that the President came into office
from a different party, all the U.S. attor-
neys resigned automatically.
We've tried to do away with that, you
know, and move toward merit selection.
I'm deeply committed to this, and, to re-
peat myself, anything that the Congress
can do, I can do, or the Senators volun-
tarily can do, all of those combined is
what I favor to ensure merit selection.
CAMPAIGN PLANS
Q. Mr. President, this year is election
year, and Republicans are hoping to pick
up some seats in the House. How much of
your time do you plan to spend perhaps
helping Democrats seeking House seats
campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll probably spend
a good bit of time on that. I've made
visits already this year to four States-to
New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island,
and Delaware.
I will participate in five major fund-
raising efforts around the country. I've
465
