Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 25
we sell arms—and this sales proposal
would be completed 5 years in the fu-
ture, by-I think the last deliveries would
be 1983 is initiated by a request from
governments, foreign governments, that
we permit the sale of arms to them. As I
said earlier, we committed ourselves to
help Saudi Arabia with arms sales to
protect themselves in September of 1975.
At the same time, approximately, in the
fall of '75, our Government committed
to help Israel with their proposal by mak-
ing arms sales available to them. Obvi-
ously, if any nation withdrew its request
for arms sales, that would change the
entire procedure.
I have never heard of Foreign Minister
Dayan's statement that they did not need
the weapons or would withdraw their
request for weapons until today. Mr.
Dayan is on the way to our country. He
will be meeting shortly with the Secre-
tary of State and others, and I think only
after very close consultations with them
can we determine whether or not Israel
desires to go ahead with the arms sales
commitment that I've made to them.
But I do not intend to withdraw the
arms sales proposals after they are sub-
mitted to the Congress, and I do not in-
tend to delay.
Q. If Mr. Dayan did in fact tell you that
Israel would withdraw its request, would
you then be willing to pull back the whole
package?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't imagine that
happening, and I would rather not answer
a hypothetical question of that kind.
MIDDLE EAST PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. You mentioned that Mr. Dayan is
coming. I just wonder, sir, do you have
any reason at all to feel optimistic that
the negotiations between Israel and
Egypt can somehow be brought off dead
center?
I know Mr. Atherton's been in Cairo,
and you've had consultations. What is the
outlook now?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have reason to
be optimistic, but I can't predict success
anytime soon. This has been going on for
30 years.
I think compared to a year ago, for in-
stance, remarkable progress has been
made. After the visit of President Sadat to
Jerusalem, there was a remarkable sense
of excessive hope or euphoria that swept
the world, that peace was imminent. Since
then, I've met extensively with President
Sadat and with Prime Minister Begin and
also with the Foreign Ministers of the two
countries involved. And there's still hope
that we can move toward a peaceful
settlement.
I think if there were not hope, that
Foreign Minister Dayan would not be
coming to Washington to meet with our
own officials to explore further avenues
for progress.
As you know, since Prime Minister
Begin was here, Ezer Weizman, who is the
Defense Minister of Israel, has been to
Egypt twice (once)¹ to meet with Presi-
dent Sadat. So, discussions are going on
and explorations are continuing.
And I am firmly convinced that both
the Israelis and the Egyptians want peace.
They both are concerned about the terms
of peace. After years of hatred and even
active combat, there's still an element of
distrust about the future intentions of
each other.
But I am hopeful that we can continue
to make progress. My commitment is deep
and irreversible. As long as I'm in the
White House as President, I will continue
to pursue, without any slacking of my in-
terests or commitment, the avenue toward
peace.
¹ Printed in the transcript.
779
