May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Reception Honoring
Armenian Americans
Remarks at the White House Reception.
May 16, 1978
say
THE PRESIDENT. The first thing I want to
is that it is an honor for Rosalynn and
me to have you here in our home, which
is also your home.
In preparation for the previous meet-
ing that I had with your group in the
Roosevelt Room in the West Wing, I went
back and studied some of the history of
the Armenian people. And I, again, am
impressed with the tremendous contribu-
tion that you've made to our own Nation,
the high examples that you've set in lead-
ership, in music, arts, in business, in
politics, in education, and in your sound
political judgment in choosing to be Dem-
ocrats [laughter] also in your very
early support of me when I ran for Presi-
dent. Yours was the first group that had
confidence in me, and I will always re-
member it. And your help for our party
and our country is something that I ap-
preciate very much.
As one of the oldest people in the world,
you have, I think, struggled with great
courage and tenacity to preserve your own
identity, your own customs, and, too, in
a very modest way, let the world come to
appreciate what you've accomplished.
I feel close to you because you were the
first Christian people, first Christian na-
tion, and because of that, your deep reli-
gious beliefs, I doubt that any other
people have ever suffered more. I know
that through the early years of the foun-
dation of your people's home, you suf-
fered a great deal. But it's generally not
known in the world that in the years pre-
ceding 1916, there was a concerted effort
made to eliminate all the Armenian
people, probably one of the greatest trag-
edies that ever befell any group. And
there weren't any Nuremberg trials.
There weren't any high public figures who
recognized how much you and your fami-
lies had to suffer.
Well, I feel very deeply that I, as Presi-
dent, ought to make sure that this is never
forgotten, not only the tragedy of your
history but also the present contributions
that you
make and the bright future that
you have.
I'm very grateful that there are about a
million Armenian Americans who provide
stability in a unique place in our Nation's
social and political structure, and I'm very
grateful to you.
I might add one other thing. You are
very generous people. Some of you have
become quite influential, quite affluent,
and quite famous because of your superb
achievements. And this is a matter of
great pride to me as it is to you.
So, I just wanted to let you know that,
in a few words, as President, and on
behalf of the American people, I appre-
ciate what
you are.
Thank you very much.
CLEMENT CONGER. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, as Curator of the White House, it
gives me great pleasure to inform you that
the Committee for the Preservation of
the White House accepts with great pleas-
ure two very important gifts of American
paintings being given by the Manoogian
family. They are, on the left, "Barn in
Winter" by N. C. Wyeth, and on the
right, "The Red Mill" by Ernest Lawson,
American impressionist art. And I know
that all of us realize that President and
Mrs. Carter are very impressed with
American impressionist artists.
I think Mr. Richard Manoogian would
like to say just a word before we accept
them.
MR. MANOOGIAN. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, on behalf of the Manoogian
family, I'm very pleased to present these
paintings to the permanent White House
916
