Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 4
ductive than ever before and to regain
positions of world leadership very rapidly.
Never have so many new jobs and so
much new wealth been created or so
much change in people's lives been man-
aged so effectively and yet with so much
freedom.
All of this is no accident. Nations with
other political systems, in spite of their
great human and natural resources, have
not done as well.
And democracy protects us also against
the excesses of modernization. It helps us
constantly to reduce the rising complexity
of modern life to human terms. At a time
when the computer makes total state con-
trol more possible than ever-processing
people like numbers-democracy stands
guard, protecting the uniqueness of the
individual.
This is why the great trend of emigra-
tion is from those states which deny basic
rights to their people and toward the free
nations of the West. That's why India,
under the greatest trial and tension, has
reaffirmed its commitment to rule by the
people, and that's why Portugal and
Spain and Greece have rejoined the ranks
of Europe's democratic nations.
We do not fear the challenges which
test our chosen form of government.
But today we need a new agenda for
democracy.
The first task on this agenda is to de-
vise ways in which government and so-
cial institutions can better and more
quickly respond to the higher standards
of leadership and service which are now
being demanded by our people.
It's a time of testing. Already the
varied experiments are underway, ac-
cording to the unique traditions and
needs of each individual country. In
Western Europe successful sharing of the
fruits of economic growth at all levels has
provided a way to help in society over-
coming mounting social problems.
In France you are making a young
constitution work in balancing authority
between the executive and the legislature.
In some countries, like Germany and
Scandinavia, there are continuing experi-
ments in new forms of interrelationship
between labor and management.
The member nations of the European
Community are planning to hold direct
elections among the nations for the Euro-
pean Parliament.
In
my own Nation, we are trying to re-
duce
government regulation in areas bet-
ter left to private enterprise or to the
individuals.
And in several nations, including some
of our own, there is emphasis on strength-
ening the role of local government, on
decentralizing power, and on working
through voluntary associations to meet
particular problems and needs.
In these and other ways we can make
able, and also closer to the people, foster-
government more responsive, account-
ing a renewed sense of confidence in our
national and in our local communities.
We can also find new answers to the
old problems of combining freedom with
responsibility. As President Giscard d'Es-
taing wrote in his book, "Towards a New
Democracy," "The pluralism of power
guarantees freedom. . . . Democratic
progress does not result in disorder, but
in a better balance of order within free-
dom and responsibility."
The second item on the new agenda
for democracy is the economic challenge.
We must not only restore growth, control
inflation, and reduce unemployment; we
must also demonstrate that our demo-
cratic economic system can adapt to the
demands that are constantly changing
and placed upon it. This means proving
again that we have the self-discipline to
pursue our future, no less than our cur-
rent interests, so that contending do-
23
