Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 22
skills needed to protect and to perfect our
energy systems. Its power people can
work shoulder to shoulder with its experts
in biology, community development, pol-
lution control, land use, and other fields
necessary to carry out energy demonstra-
tions that will again set standards of ex-
cellence for our entire Nation.
You are building nuclear powerplants-
six, I believe—as safely and economically
as is humanly possible and setting a good
example for the Nation by minimizing
the adverse impacts from their construc-
tion on the communities in which they
will be located.
You are demonstrating that a Govern-
ment agency can operate efficiently and
cost-effectively. In almost every phase of
electric service, your operating costs for
electric power compare favorably with
the average costs of private power com-
panies nationwide.
As a result, in spite of rate increases
mandated by the increasing costs of oil,
coal, and nuclear fuel, Tennessee still has
the lowest home electric rates of any
State east of the Rocky Mountains.
I know it is frustrating to you to see
costs increase in spite of your best efforts.
I applaud the hard line that the TVA
Board has recently taken to hold down
rate increases, when they reduced a rec-
ommended rate increase by nearly one-
third. But I expect the TVA and all
Americans to do even more. Inflation is
the Nation's number one economic prob-
lem. And while I realize that TVA must
pay its increasing bills for fuel and labor
and materials, that is all the more reason
to redouble your efforts to control
inflation.
Twenty years ago, TVA helped to ex-
pose a price fixing conspiracy in order
to maintain competition in the electrical
equipment field. Today, TVA is challeng-
ing an international uranium cartel and
helping to lead the resistance to expand-
ing oil company domination of all our
energy resources.
This administration is with you in en-
couraging more competition and less con-
centration of economic power among the
producers of petroleum, coal, and ura-
nium. Energy prices must cover all legiti-
mate costs of production, including en-
vironmental protection, but not waste
and not windfall profits at the consumers'
expense.
TVA's main job is to meet the needs of
your own region. But in doing so you
can help the Nation by demonstrating
how a variety of production sources and
conservation measures can add to our
energy supplies in a socially acceptable
manner.
After I took office last year, I suggested
that TVA serve as a national proving
ground for some of the new approaches,
the necessarily new approaches to energy
problems being developed in our national
energy program. Chairman Wagner ac-
cepted that offer enthusiastically and
came back and made a list of things, in
addition, which TVA can do and will do
to help with this great challenge in the
future. David Freeman will provide the
leadership to continue that effort.
I know, as a businessman myself, as a
farmer in the southeast part of our coun-
try, how important it is for the TVA
programs to have a long-range, sound,
predictable, substantive status. There
must be a way for business leaders, farm-
ers, and others to make plans based upon
a TVA program whose thrust is main-
tained, not just for months or years, but
for decades.
Many of TVA's energy demonstration
activities are still in the early stages, but
they are an impressive beginning. In home
insulation, which is particularly impor-
tant to the customers you serve because so
many homes are heated by electricity; in
solar heating, a major responsibility of
947
