Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 8
CAMPAIGN PLANS
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to cam-
paign in Massachusetts for the Democrat
who will run against Brooke?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided yet.
I'll be going out probably on four or five
trips this year to campaign. But I don't
have any plans at this time to go to Mas-
sachusetts. I'm not campaigning against
anybody in any case. Ed Brooke is a fine
Senator. I don't know who his opponent
would be. I just really haven't decided
that at all.
ISRAEL'S DEFENSE CAPABILITY
Q. Mr. President, I wondered if it is
your impression that Israel has nuclear
weapons, and if so, how does this affect
your judgment of the capacity of Israel
to defend itself in a difficult time?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our policy is to
accept the statement of the Israelis con-
cerning their nuclear weapon capability.
I don't have any independent informa-
tion beyond that.
My own belief is that Israel is com-
pletely capable of defending themselves
with conventional weapons alone, against
any foreseeable attack now or in the years
to come. We have participated with the
Israelis in developing their defense ca-
pability. They are a proud and deeply
committed nation. They have been will-
ing, even eager, to sacrifice when neces-
sary to guarantee their own security, not
only economically but with the lives of
their own people.
And because of that spirit that Israel
has and a long-time commitment to put-
ting security as a top priority of their na-
tion, even when they didn't have ade-
quate support from the rest of the world,
my belief is that now and in the foresee-
able future they will be strong enough to
defend themselves.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Q. Mr. President, General Torrijos has
filed a letter in the United Nations ex-
pressing his concerns about the DeCon-
cini reservation to the Panama Canal
treaties. I'm wondering, first, if you are
fearful that these objections could jeop-
ardize ratification of the second treaty;
and secondly, whether, when you acqui-
esced in the DeConcini reservation, you
perceived it as a source of continuing
trouble in American-Panamanian rela-
tions.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think any sort
of change or unpredictable development
could endanger the passage of the second
Panama treaty in the Senate, because it
hangs by a thread. The support that we
have is very tenuous in some instances.
And I think the answer to your first ques-
tion is yes.
Any statement, even if it's well based,
by the Panamanians that would cause
consternation or doubt in the minds of
U.S. Senators could very well endanger
the passage of the second treaty.
The DeConcini amendment is not what
I would have preferred, but I think it's
accurate to point out that the text of the
treaties specifically says, in language that
General Torrijos and I personally wrote
down, that we do not have any intention
nor right to interfere in the internal af-
fairs of Panama.
That language remained intact. There
was no successful attempt made-I don't
even know if there was an attempt
made to change that language. So, that
stands as a prevailing factor. The reserva-
tion cannot contravene the text of the
treaty itself. There was no substantial
effort made to amend it.
We obviously are a member of the
United Nations. We're a member of the
Organization of American States. Their
charters, to which we adhere without
717
