Jan. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
BARBARA B. REAGAN, of Dallas, Tex., professor
of economics at Southern Methodist Univer-
sity;
JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER IV, Governor of West
Virginia;
LIDIA L. SELKREGG, of Anchorage, Alaska, pro-
fessor of resource economics and planning at
the University of Alaska;
LELAN F. SILLIN, JR., of Lyme, Conn., chair-
man and president of Northeast Utilities;
REV. LEON H. SULLIVAN, of Philadelphia, Pa.,
pastor of Zion Baptist Church in Philadel-
phia.
York City, and Frederick H. Schultz, of
Jacksonville, Fla., to be members of the
National Council on Educational Re-
search for terms ending September 30,
1979.
Howe, 59, has been vice president for
education and research of the Ford Foun-
dation since 1971. From 1969 to 1971, he
was adviser on education to the Ford
Foundation's office in India. From 1965
to 1968, he was U.S. Commissioner of
Education. He has also worked as a school-
teacher and principal.
Schultz, 48, is chairman of the board of
International Printing Week, 1978 Barnett Investment Services in Jackson-
Message of the President. January 12, 1978
So crucial is the freedom of the printed
word to a democracy that its protection is
incorporated into the First Amendment
to our Constitution.
The theme of International Printing
Week, 1978, "Don't Stop the Presses!-
Let Freedom Roll," clearly expresses that
printing, while it may be a business, is also
a cornerstone of democracy.
A vast majority of the graphics arts
firms in this nation are not massive cor-
porations, but small, often family owned
and operated businesses-true examples
of the private enterprise system.
I encourage the printing industry to
continue its contribution to the progress of
freedom.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: International Printing Week, 1978, is
observed from January 15 to 21.
National Council on Educational
Research
Nomination of Harold Howe II and Frederick
H. Schultz To Be Members. January 12, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Harold Howe II, of New
ville. As speaker of the Florida House of
Representatives in 1969 and 1970, he
worked on legislation to reform education
financing. He was chairman of a special
State education committee which reported
to the Governor.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JANUARY 12, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's nice to be back
home. It's nice to start a new year. I have
a brief statement to make before I an-
swer questions.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
Much has been said about the mes-
sages that I carried on behalf of
the American people to leaders of the
nations which I visited on the recent trip.
But it's also important to focus on the
message that I received from them and
brought back home.
They are looking to our country to see
whether we have the will, the resolve to
deal squarely with our energy problems,
which are also becoming their problems.
54
