Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 19
These treaties can mark the beginning
of a new era in our relations not only with
Panama but with all the rest of the world.
They symbolize our determination to deal
with the developing nations of the world,
the small nations of the world, on the
basis of mutual respect and partnership.
But the treaties also reaffirm a spirit that
is very strong, constant, and old in the
American character.
Sixty-four years ago, when the first ship
traveled through the canal, our people
took legitimate pride in what our ingenu-
ity, our perseverance, and our vision had
brought about. We were a nation of build-
ers, and the canal was one of our greatest
glories.
And today we have shown that we re-
main true to that determination, that in-
genuity, and most of all, that vision. To-
day we've proven that what is best and
noblest in our national spirit will prevail.
Today we've shown that we are still build-
ers, with our face still turned confidently
to the future. That is why I believe all
Americans should share the pride I feel
in the accomplishments which we regis-
tered today.
When I was coming in to make this
announcement, the Ambassador of Pan-
ama, Gabriel Lewis, informed me that
General Torrijos has accepted the terms
of the treaty that passed the Senate this
afternoon. And I want to reaffirm my
thanks and my commitment to a true
partnership with General Torrijos and the
people of a great nation, Panama.
Thank you.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:07 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. His remarks were broadcast
live on radio and television.
Earlier, the Senate had voted 68-32 to ratify
the treaty.
Advisory Committee for
Trade Negotiations
Appointment of Nine Members.
April 19, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of nine persons as members
of the Advisory Committee for Trade Ne-
gotiations for 2-year terms. They are:
NORBORNE BERKELEY, JR., of Princeton, N.J.,
president and director of the Chemical New
York Corp. and Chemical Bank (reappoint-
ment);
HENRY FORD II, chairman of the board of Ford
Motor Co.;
PAUL HALL, president of the Seafarers Inter-
national Union of North America (reap-
pointment);
RICHARD E. HECKERT, of Kennett Square, Pa.,
director and senior vice president of the
Du Pont Co.;
FRANKLIN A. JACOBS, of St. Louis, Mo., presi-
dent and chief executive officer of Falcon
Products, Inc., a food service equipment
company which he founded in 1958;
WILLIAM D. KNOX, of Fort Atkinson, Wis.,
president of W. D. Hoard & Sons Co., which
publishes Hoard's Dairyman, a magazine
with circulation of 280,000 dairy farmers
(reappointment);
REPORTER. Mr. President, are you going BUCK MICKEL, of Greenville, S.C., chairman
down to Panama now?
THE PRESIDENT. Now?
Q. With these treaties in a few weeks,
for formal ceremonies?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been invited by
General Torrijos to come to Panama. I
would like very much to accept his invi-
tation.
of Daniel International Corp., a construction
company (reappointment);
MYER RASHISH, a Washington consulting
economist and former Assistant to the Presi-
dent (1961-63) (reappointment);
WILLIAM E. TIMMONS, of Bethesda, Md., presi-
dent of Timmons and Co., a small Washing-
ton consulting firm representing corporate
and association clients in the area of govern-
ment relations (reappointment).
759
