Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
There were two significant factors that
we had to consider in making this deci-
sion. First was my concern about any pos-
sible adverse effect on NASA's space
program, which is so important to our
country and to the world.
NASA has occupied, as you know, an
enclosure at the southern end of the El-
lington flightline since the time that the
site for the nearby Johnson Air Space
Center was first selected in the early
1960's. NASA uses those facilities primar-
ily for flight operations, to support the
Johnson Center, and for the astronauts
proficiency training program. This is a
program that our Nation needs to main-
tain the strength of our country in the
space program, and the decision to re-
tain Ellington will allow this important
work to continue.
Second is that we need more time to
determine the best future use of this very
valuable property. Many interests are in-
volved in that decision-the Federal Gov-
ernment and many agencies of the Fed-
eral Government, the State, local govern-
ments, and also the people of this area,
and we must do careful, patient work to
plan how best to accommodate all these
varying needs.
I've asked the General Services Ad-
ministration to develop a long-range plan
for the proper use of this facility. I've
asked that in reaching their decision, they
take into consideration not only Federal,
State, and local government needs but
also the economic and commercial needs
of the surrounding community.
I suspect that many of you have been
giving this problem some consideration.
Bob Gammage, Senator Lloyd Bentsen
in particular, have been fighting so hard
for your interests and the interests of the
Nation in maintaining this base. They
join me in asking you to communicate
your views, through them, about how this
valuable property might best be used.
In the interval, I've asked Jay Solo-
mon, who's the Administrator of the Gen-
eral Services Administration, to manage
and to maintain this base.
In my remarks a few hours ago at Fort
Worth, I mentioned some of the eco-
nomic forces that make our Nation
strong. Tomorrow, at Fort Hood, where
I, as Commander in Chief of the Armed
Forces, will see a demonstration of Amer-
ican firepower, I will review some of the
superb military capability that protects
our place and our peace in the world. The
people of this State, this region, and of
this base, have always proudly served in
that same cause, defending our Nation's
interests and our principles whenever
they may be threatened.
I'm glad to know that in different ways
Ellington Base will continue to serve our
country.
Again, I'd like to express my thanks for
your presence, my admiration for the
great State of Texas, and my hope that I
will see many of you this evening. But for
the time being now, I'd like to come and
shake hands with some of you, to let you
know how much I think of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:33 p.m. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Mayor
James McConn of Houston.
Houston, Texas
Remarks at a Democratic Fundraising Dinner.
June 23, 1978
Governor Dolph Briscoe, Governor Ed-
win Edwards, Mayor McConn, Majority
Leader Jim Wright, Congresswoman Bar-
bara Jordan, Congressmen Eckhardt,
Gammage from this area, and others in
the great Texas political delegation in
Washington, Attorney General John Hill,
Lieutenant Governor Hobby, fellow
1165
