Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 30
been raised in conjunction with an in-
vestigation. I was not told at that time
and had no idea that he was being in-
vestigated himself, Eilberg.
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us―
this question goes more to philosophy,
I guess, than anything—could you tell us
why you felt compelled to respond to a
phone call from a Congressman in Phila-
delphia to, as you put it, expedite the
removal of a U.S. attorney, one of more
than 90 in the country? And secondly, do
you really believe that these actions by
your administration over the last 2 or 3
weeks with regard to Mr. Marston square,
really square with the commitment you
made in your campaign to remove the
Justice Department from the spoils sys-
tem traditional to American politics?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer your last
question first, yes, I do think that our
actions are compatible with my campaign
statements, which I've said earlier. On an
average day, I get either personal letters
from Congress Members or telephone calls
about 10 or 12 inquiries or requests for
the replacement of a public official or the
appointment of someone to fill a vacancy.
In most instances, as relates to the Federal
judiciary, the inquiries or recommenda-
tions come from U.S. Senators.
In historical terms, when both Senators
are Republican Senators, then the Mem-
bers of Congress and the Governors are
consulted on who are qualified people and
so forth. This was a routine matter for
me, and I did not consider my taking the
telephone call from Congressman Eilberg,
nor relaying his request to the Attorney
General, to be ill-advised at all. If it oc-
curred now, I would do the same.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, do you have an over-
all view of the final borders you would like
to see for Israel? Do you expect Israel to
return to the 1967 borders in all aspects,
especially in East Jerusalem?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't have a
map or a plan that ought to be the final
border delineation between Israel and her
neighbors. I have always operated and
made my statements under the framework
and within the constraints of United Na-
tions Resolution 242, which calls for Is-
rael to withdraw from occupied terri-
tories.
Israel interprets this language differ-
ently, of course, from the Arab neigh-
bors. The Arab neighbors say that Israel
ought to withdraw from all occupied ter-
ritories. Israel says that there's some flexi-
bility there and that the thrust of U.N.
Resolution 242 is an exchange, in effect,
for portions of the occupied territory for
guaranteed peace.
The three elements that I've pursued
is, one, a delineation of final borders;
secondly, a feeling or conviction on the
part of the Israelis that their security was
preserved, which would involve both their
own military strength, the delineation of
the borders, and the attitude now and in
the future of their neighbors.
The second question, of course, is the
definition of real peace. What does peace
mean? Does it simply mean a cessation of
hostility or belligerency, or does it mean
open borders, trade, tourism, diplomatic
exchange, the location of ambassadors,
and so forth?
I've taken the more definitive definition
as my own preference. And the other
thing, of course, is to deal in all its aspects
with the Palestinian question.
But I have never tried to put forward
in my own mind or to any of the Mid-
eastern leaders a map in saying this is
where the lines should be drawn.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, Energy Secretary
Schlesinger has expressed some recent
247
