Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 8
Richardson. [Laughter] Tip called up to
discuss this matter with me and [laugh-
ter] he really gave me the highest com-
pliment I've ever had. He said I had done
more for the Republicans in Massachu-
setts than anybody since Richard Nixon.
[Laughter] And he said that because I was
new in Washington, that he wanted to
reward me for honoring his State as I had
already done—[laughter] by making
my first two appointments Republicans
from Massachusetts.
You probably wouldn't know it by the
way we've performed, but there were
some of us that didn't know much about
Washington when we got here. [Laugh-
ter] A few of us didn't even know where
Pennsylvania Street was. [Laughter]
So, Tip got a Harvard professor to help
some of our staff. He gave Hamilton Jor-
dan some advice on diplomatic manners
and how to dress. [Laughter] And Tip
wanted to give me some personal advice,
because I had had trouble, as you know,
in some of the States during the general
election. He wanted to teach me how to
win political favor in the West. And we
decided between us that the water projects
was the best thing to undertake. [Laugh-
ter] We really have worked on this all
year. And we've benefited greatly from
Tip's friendship and help. [Laughter]
When I was at my lowest point this
past summer during the Bert Lance hear-
ings, Tip revived all our spirits by giving
us some good information on air travel by
Senator Charles Percy. [Laughter] And it
really put us back on top of the thing
there for a few days. Bert Lance was off
the front page for a while; Jody Powell
got on the front page. [Laughter] Tip, I
want to thank you for that help.
We also have been very eager to have a
good legislative achievement last year.
And when the adjournment time came
the first week in October, Tip wanted to
make sure that I understood how to deal
with the Congress effectively as we ap-
proached the conferences on energy. He
said one of the main things I ought to
do is to return Congressmen's telephone
calls in a hurry. And the first one I got
was from Philadelphia. [Laughter]
I hate to be overly modest, but most of
my successes this past year, as you can see,
I can attribute to my friendship with-
[laughter]-the Speaker.
It hasn't been just political help. It
hasn't been just advice and counsel on
personal habits for my staff or inside in-
formation on the ways of Washington.
Tip and I and our families have also
formed a very close personal relation.
Tip and Millie came to the White
House to eat supper with us on a couple
of occasions, and we have some very
cherished pictures of Tip holding my
grandson in his lap. Later I was intro-
duced to Millie's brother-in-law, who hap-
pened to be an unemployed Polish inter-
preter. [Laughter]
I've become deeply indebted to Tip
O'Neill. [Laughter] My hope is that in
the months ahead, Tip, I can repay you
for all the kindnesses that you have shown
us. [Laughter]
I would like to say in closing that in
one's lifetime it's a very rare occasion
when you have a chance to meet some-
one who is a delightful companion;
someone who knows the political history
of our Nation and who has the deepest
and most sincere reverence for our Con-
stitution and for the Capitol and for the
White House and those who have served
in it; someone who exemplifies in an en-
joyable and effective way the finest ele-
ments of democratic politics; someone
about whom in a period of years even in
the quietness of private conversations you
would never hear a word of criticism;
someone who has a sense of humor and
287
