Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment, supported the treaties signed by you,
Mr. President, and the Chief of State of
Panama, General Omar Torrijos.
Never since the beginning of the Second
World War, Latin American countries
have expressed such a total solidarity as at
that time.
This means that that day, on Septem-
ber 7, 1977, history was written in this
hemisphere. This is the date when there
was a deletion of the resentment between
our peoples. This is the date which put
an end to historical circumstances, just as
the circumstances that were put to an end
in the past between the United States and
England, between Latin America and
Spain. This is the immense meaning of
that date.
And we all trust the Americanistic spirit
of the Senate of the United States. We
know that Republicans and Democrats
represent there the people of the United
States and the desire the American peo-
ple have for liberty, dignity, and the sov-
ereign rights which were first claimed in
the United States in 1776, when you
achieved your independence.
I say this, as I know that with my words
I interpret the feelings of Latin America.
We are very optimistic as far as the trea-
ties are concerned, but I must be frank
and say that we also see with great con-
cern any parliamentary eventuality which
might still appear.
However, we hope that this treaty will
be parallel to a new era, this new era the
Bicentennial of which you just celebrated
in the United States, and we celebrated it
with you also. We hope that this new
treaty will be the beginning of a new era
of new friendship between the United
States and Latin America.
This trip, Mr. President, has also an-
other very important meaning, and this
trip means the ratification of your pol-
icy towards the problems of the Third
World. The two countries you have de-
cided to visit in Latin America are Vene-
zuela and Brazil, and we consider this
fact as an expression of your concern to-
wards Latin American problems. Then
you will go to Africa and visit Nigeria and
Liberia, and again with such a visit, you
will ratify the importance you give to
Third World problems. We know that the
Third World has in you a receptive and
sincere listener and a person willing to
dialog with the Third World towards the
attainment of international justice.
With these brief words, I would like to
tell you that your name has achieved
today great dimensions in Latin America
and in the world, because you have given
an ethical meaning to the policies of your
Government.
We, the Venezuelan people and the
people of Latin America, feel deep satis-
faction to see that the President of one of
the most powerful countries of the world
has given to human rights a high priority
in the policies of his Government. These
are new ethical values which you have
opened in the policies of your country,
and this is a new humanistic outlook you
have given to world politics in general.
And through it, you have helped to
strengthen the struggle that people wage
throughout the world towards their well-
being, but their well-being with dignity.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, in the name
of Venezuela, of my government, of my
wife, and in my own name, I wish you to
receive our most friendly welcome, and I
would like to ask you to feel at home in
this land of our liberator, Simón Bolívar.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President, my
dear friends:
Thank you for your welcoming words.
I understand what has been said here.
The ratification of the Panama treaties
are also important for the United States.
614
