Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
grant funds. That legislation will earmark
funds for the Department of Transporta-
tion to support important highway safety
projects, such as the 55 mile per hour
speed limit program.
Inland Waterway User Fees
Users of Federal inland waterways
should pay fees which will pay a substan-
tial part of the cost of constructing, oper-
ating and maintaining those waterways.
My Administration will continue to work
closely with Congress toward passage of
a bill that will, for the first time, establish
inland waterway user fees.
Aircraft Noise Abatement
My Administration will again seek
passage of legislation to control aircraft
noise.
No-Fault Automobile Insurance
We continue to support legislation to
establish Federal minimum standards for
no-fault automobile insurance.
VETERANS
In 1977, we took a number of steps to
make certain that the country continues
to meet the special needs of our millions
of veterans. Legislation was passed to in-
crease compensation benefits for service-
connected disabilities, benefits under the
G.I. Bill, and veterans pension benefits.
Millions of veterans will feel the effects
of these increases this year.
In 1978, we will further improve our
veterans programs by:
-initiating a government-wide review
of the problems of Vietnam veterans and
the means by which current programs can
be made more effective in meeting their
needs;
-beginning new programs to deal with
problems of alcohol, drug abuse and
psychological readjustment;
proposing increased benefits for
service-connected disabilities, and im-
provements in the veterans pension pro-
gram;
-continuing special employment pro-
grams for Vietnam-era veterans.
ARTS AND HUMANITIES
Americans are increasingly aware that
the arts and humanities preserve and
transmit our heritage, enrich our lives,
and contribute significantly to the social
and economic well-being of our Nation.
This Administration is committed to fos-
tering the highest standards of creativity
and scholarship in an open partnership
between public and private sectors-and
we believe that the products of this com-
mitment must be available to the many
Americans who wish to share in them.
This year's substantial increases in the
budgets for the Arts and Humanities En-
dowments demonstrate my strong belief
in the value of these programs.
MAKING THE GOVERNMENT MORE
EFFICIENT AND MORE RESPONSIVE
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
Civil Service Reform
The Civil Service System is too often
a bureaucratic maze which stifles the
initiative of our dedicated Government
employees while inadequately protecting
their rights. Our 2.8 million civil servants
are governed by outdated rules and in-
stitutions that keep them from being as
efficient as they would like to be. No one
is more frustrated by this system than
hard-working public servants. Therefore,
one of my major priorities in 1978 will
be to ensure passage of the first compre-
hensive reform of the system since its
creation nearly a century ago-reforms
107
