Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 21, 1978
Zero-Base Budgeting
Memorandum From the President.
April 14, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Shortly after I took office, I asked each
of you to institute zero-base budgeting in
your agency. I commend your efforts to
accomplish this within the short time that
was available.
I want you to know that the zero-base
budgeting process helped me and other
reviewers in the difficult task of allocat-
ing limited resources among competing
and worthy programs. And now, after a
year's experience, I expect the process to
aid even more during the 1980 budget
cycle.
The Office of Management and Budget
your staff's suggestions on ways to im-
prove the process for the 1980 Budget.
In addition to the changes needed un-
der these revised guidelines, I ask that you
use zero-base budgeting as the sole basis
for the preparation of your 1980 budget
request. This should relieve the added
work that was caused last year by the
preparation, in some instances, of both
ZBB and traditional budget justifica-
tions. I also ask you to involve managers
at all levels within your agency. This will
help to identify ways to bring about our
common goal of increased effectiveness in
Government operations.
By continuing to work together to im-
prove our zero-base budgeting processes,
we can make the Federal budget more
responsive to the needs of the people.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
has reported to me the results of this year's leased on April 17.
zero-base budgeting efforts. As was ex-
pected, some agencies did better than
others. Most agencies need to focus more
attention on objectives and on ways to
accomplish those objectives more efficient-
ly. In addition, I think more emphasis
should be placed on the examination of
minimum levels, so I ask that you make
additional efforts to do this.
I have asked the Office of Management
and Budget to issue revised guidelines.
These guidelines will include many of
Visit of President Nicolae
Ceausescu of Romania
Joint Communique Issued at the Conclusion
of the Romanian President's Visit to the
United States. April 17, 1978
At the invitation of President Jimmy
Carter and Mrs. Carter, the President of
the Socialist Republic of Romania, Nico-
753
