Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place,
our administration over this past year has
been very concerned about the difficulty
of black citizens and other minority groups
in trying to acquire ownership of the elec-
tronic media. And on behalf of the mi-
nority citizens of our country, we have now
filed a petition directly with the Federal
Communications Commission, as you
know, and I have sent a message to Con-
gress and Walt Wurfel or somebody can
get you a copy of it-expressing to Con-
gress the need to ensure that in the future
black citizens and black citizens' groups
can acquire ownership and control of the
electronic media, both television and
radio.
And now over a longer period of time,
the Congress will evolve and pass legis-
lation. In the meantime, though, we are
moving as aggressively as possible with the
FCC under a Justice Department petition
filed on my behalf to expedite the process.
So, you really have a two-phase effort.
One is the Federal Communications Com-
mission taking action under its existing au-
thority, and the other one is the message
to Congress that will, in the long run,
bring about legislation, perhaps.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
Q. One more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Just this question and
I really have got to be on time for the
next meeting.
SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDGES; ETHIOPIA-
SOMALIA CONFLICT
Q. Just two quick ones. One, I'm from
Philadelphia; the Marston affair is still in
the news. The question is, did you or Mr.
Bell meet with Senator Eastland anytime
after your election and agree to take the
selection of Federal judges out of the pa-
tronage process, but leave the selection of
U.S. attorneys in the patronage process?
And the second question is, what do
you plan to do about the situation re-
garding Ethiopia and Somalia? Will there
be any transfer of arms to Somalia di-
rectly or indirectly, perhaps from Iran?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with Senator
Eastland at the Governor's mansion in
Georgia after I was elected. And we dis-
cussed with him my desire to have Fed-
eral judges appointed on a merit system
basis.
He pointed out to us what we already
knew, and that is that historically, the
United States Senators in States had been
the ones to put forward names of judges
to be appointed. We informed Senator
Eastland that the circuit judges, the ones
that come from several States, that we
would set up immediately, when I be-
came President, screening committees to
make sure that they gave me the names
of the five most qualified people before
I made the selection.
We now have a screening commission
set up in every one of the circuits in the
Nation. Neither Senator Eastland nor I
have the authority to remove, against
their will, the historical right of Senators
to participate in the district judgeships.
But we have encouraged the Members of
the Senate-I've written handwritten let-
ters to every Democratic Senator-to do
so, and I think now in 18 States, these
merit selection commissions have already
been set up.
There was never any discussion at all
about U.S. attorneys.
And the other question is, we don't in-
tend to send arms to either side. We've
called on Somalia to withdraw from
Ethiopian territory, out of the Ogaden
area.
The Somali Government position, you
know, is that these are not Somali troops,
but they are independent groups who
went in to protect citizens of Somali heri-
tage who lived in Ethiopia.
324
