Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
what they have learned in the classroom.
For many, summer employment will en-
able them to earn funds necessary to re-
turn to school in the fall.
I am asking each of you to personally
support the Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth. In selecting students
to work in the Federal Government, we
must ensure that special efforts are made
to attract needy young people. For this
reason, we are again setting an employ-
ment goal of one needy youth for every
forty regular employees.
Chairman Alan K. Campbell and his
staff at the Civil Service Commission will
provide leadership to the Summer Em-
ployment Program, and will report to me
our accomplishments. Commission
staff will soon be providing you with more
details on the program.
I urge each of you to take full advan-
tage of this opportunity.
JIMMY CARTER
Labor Disputes in the Coal
Industry
Remarks on the Stalemate in the Negotiations.
February 14, 1978
The present stalemate in the coal strike
inflicts continuing and increasing hard-
ships on this country and also on the
miners, both active and retired. It cannot
be allowed to continue.
I have just directed the Secretary of
Labor to convey to negotiators for man-
agement and for the mineworkers my per-
sonal and most urgent request that serious
negotiations be resumed immediately here
in the White House.
I've also instructed the Secretary of
Labor to participate personally in these
negotiations and to give me a report, at
least daily, on progress that is being made
in resolving the present stalemate.
I continue to support the collective bar-
gaining process. However, the welfare of
this country must be my overriding con-
cern. Renewed negotiations here in the
White House must be viewed as a final
opportunity for this bargaining process to
work. If it does not, then I will have no
choice but to resort to stronger measures.
While law enforcement is a primary
responsibility of State and local govern-
ments, I've also asked the Attorney Gen-
eral to give me a complete assessment of
the
powers available to ensure protection
of life and property in these extraordinary
circumstances.
REPORTER. Mr. President, would you
invoke the Taft-Hartley Act if they failed
to negotiate?
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the op-
tions available to me, yes.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Energy Emergency in Indiana
Statement by the President.
February 15, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Indiana,
pursuant to Section 110 (f) of the Clean
Air Act, I hereby determine that a region-
al energy emergency exists in the State of
Indiana of such severity that a temporary
suspension of certain particulate and sul-
fur dioxide control regulations and regu-
lations governing reserves of low sulfur
coal under the Indiana Air Quality Im-
plementation Plan may be necessary, and
that other means of responding to the en-
ergy emergency may be inadequate. This
determination shall be effective for not
more than thirty (30) days, provided that
the State of Indiana shall hold the public
hearing required by Section 110(f) of the
316
