Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 17
that's fair. The voices that we hear in
Washington when tax reform is pro-
posed are the voices of those special in-
terest groups, because they are powerful,
are rich, are influential, and are present
here through lobbyists and spokesmen
and lawyers and accountants, are trying
to protect the selfish special privilege
that has been carved out for them in the
past, and whose tax bills have to be paid
by the average American workman and
the average American family.
These average Americans foot the bill
for the rich and others who mark off
from their tax payments high-priced
meals, high-priced theater tickets, ball-
game tickets, first-class air travel, even
country club dues. And because the ex-
penses of Government are fairly well
fixed because of the services demanded,
somebody has to pay when those rich,
influential people don't. And the ones
who pay are the quiet, average Ameri-
can working family members who expect
to be protected, but quite often are not.
The low and middle American fami-
lies also pay the taxes for the multina-
tional corporations who have special
privileges concerning foreign earnings
and, in the process, also are encouraged
to export jobs that are badly needed here
in our own country.
Under the proposals that have been
made to Congress for tax reform, tax re-
duction, families who earn between
$10,000 and $30,000 a year would have
their taxes cut about $300 if the pro-
posals go into effect.
But tax reform is not just economic.
The tax codes touch, perhaps, more
Americans than any other laws that we
have. And the tax codes quite often are
the measuring stick by which citizens can
judge the effectiveness of their own Gov-
ernment and the fairness of their own
Government and evolve, therefore, trust
in their own Government.
I've seen recent news stories that said
that there is no enthusiasm in Washing-
ton for tax reform. But there's a lot of
enthusiasm in the White House, there's
a lot of enthusiasm in the Treasury De-
partment, and there's a lot of enthusiasm
among American citizens who are tired
of being treated unfairly and want to see
tax reform implemented.
If the American people will let their
voices be heard to equal those of the spe-
cial interests, then the Congress will hear,
and tax reform will finally go into effect
in our country.
If we don't succeed in all our efforts
this year, I intend to come back next
year and the next and the next to make
sure that American voices are heard and
that our tax reform proposals are imple-
mented and that tax codes will be simple
and fair.
Thank you very much.
CAMP DAVID MEETINGS WITH
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
I might say that the meetings that we
had this weekend at Camp David were
profitable, very helpful to me, and I think
that every member of the Cabinet, every
member of the White House staff would
agree with those assessments.
We measured how our administration
had performed so far. We analyzed some
problems and some failures that have
been widely publicized. We recommitted
ourselves to carrying out the commit-
ments that I made during the campaign
and to make our Government, from the
executive branch, be more effective.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Will you do things differ-
ently, sir? Did you reach some decisions
about different processes?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll do things better.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:10 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
755
