Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 22
This is the first time that Maestro Andre
Kostelanetz has been to the White House
to perform. And I'm especially glad that
it's tonight for American families who are
the leaders of our Nation and who repre-
sent not only the political structure of our
Government but also try to exemplify for
political and other reasons a fine and a
solid and an exemplary family interrela-
tionship.
This is a good time for us. He has
shown his leadership already in getting
perfect harmony from three different mili-
tary services, which is something that I
have not always been able to achieve
myself. [Laughter] And I think that when
you hear the last selection, which is the
1812 Overture, it will remind you of the
kind of leadership breakfast that I have
with the congressional leaders every 2
weeks. [Laughter]
So, welcome to the White House, to our
home, and we're glad that you brought
your families to hear Maestro Andre
Kostelanetz and superb musicians from
our military bands.
Maestro Kostelanetz.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8 p.m. on the South Grounds of the White
House.
Plains, Georgia
Informal Exchange With Reporters on
Arrival at Peterson Field. May 21, 1978
Q. Mr. President, is our assistance to
that Zaire operation ended, or is it still
in progress?
THE PRESIDENT. It's just about over.
Q. It seemed to be a pretty successful
operation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. From what
we hear, the French and the Belgians and
the Zairians have been successful. And we
provided what logistic support they re-
quested. And barring some unforeseen
development, I think that my authoriza-
tion for help is probably over. But we
don't ever know what will happen in the
future.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately
10:30 a.m.
Knoxville, Tennessee
Remarks to Employees of the Tennessee
Valley Authority. May 22, 1978
Senator Baker; Senator Sasser; Governor
Blanton; Members of Congress who are
here-Congressmen Allen and Duncan,
Ford, Gore, Jones, Marilyn Lloyd-Secre-
tary James Schlesinger; Director of the
General Services Administration and a
Tennessean, Jay Solomon; Mayor Tyree;
Mayor Bissell of Oak Ridge, where I'll be
going later on today; Speaker Ned Mc-
Wherter, an old friend of mine; former
Chairman, a great man, Red Wagner;
Chairman Dave Freeman, and my friends
from Tennessee:
I'm glad to be here. It's always a great
honor for me to visit your State. I have
been taken in by you as a friend. During
my early campaign for the nomination as
a Democrat to run for President, Georgia
gave me more votes than any other State,
but Tennessee was right behind with 78
percent. I'll always remember your friend-
ship and your confidence, and I want to
come here again today to thank you from
the bottom of my heart.
Today I've come also because of a
special interest-to visit with literally
thousands of distinguished leaders and
employees in one of the great institutions
of America.
In 1933, after 16 years of debate in the
Congress, there was created the Tennessee
945
