Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
Visit of President Tito
of Yugoslavia
Joint Statement. March 9, 1978
At the invitation of the President of the
United States, Jimmy Carter, the Presi-
dent of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito, paid a State
Visit to the United States of America,
March 7-9, 1978.
Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security
Affairs
Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Ambassa-
dor of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Socialist Federal Repub-
lic of Yugoslavia
and others
During the visit, President Tito met
with members of the House of Represent-
atives and Senate. The talks reflected a
In the talks, on the Yugoslav side, par- high degree of interest in the legislative
ticipated:
Josip Broz Tito, President of the
Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Sergej Kraigher, President of the
Presidency of the Socialist Repub-
lic of Slovenia
Milos Minic, Vice President of the
Federal Executive Council and
Federal Secretary for Foreign
Affairs
Josip Vrhovec, Member of the Coun-
cil of the Presidency of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Dimce Belovski, Ambassador of the
Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia to the United States of
America
Branko Pavicevic, President of the
Academy of Arts and Sciences of
the Socialist Republic of Monte-
negro
and others
On the American side:
Jimmy Carter, President of the
United States of America
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President
of the United States of America
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
of the United States of America
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
of the United States of America
bodies of both countries to promote under-
standing and contacts between the peoples
of Yugoslavia and the United States, in-
cluding a broadened exchange of politi-
cal leaders. President Tito also met with
other distinguished Americans.
The two Presidents held extensive and
useful talks in a spirit of mutual regard,
candor, and friendship. They agreed that
the significant improvement in bilateral
relations over the past year, marked by a
series of personal messages between them
as well as by high-level visits and con-
sultations, should be continued and deep-
ened, building upon the basis of mutual
respect which the United States and the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
hold for each other as equal, independ-
ent, and sovereign states. They confirmed
that the principles contained in previous
joint statements (Washington, October
1971 and Belgrade, August 1975) have
been tested in practice and that they, to-
gether with the present statement, con-
stitute the basis for developing relations
between the two countries. The two Presi-
dents considered this meeting a major
step in reinforcing the already strong
foundations of US-Yugoslav relations.
The views of the two sides reflected wide
areas of agreement on the issues discussed.
The two Presidents, noting the deep
historical and cultural ties between their
peoples, agreed that Americans of Yugo-
485
