June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
3-5. Mandatory Review for Declassifi-
cation.
3-501. Agencies shall establish a man-
datory review procedure to handle re-
quests by a member of the public, by a
government employee, or by an agency,
to declassify and release information. This
procedure shall apply to information clas-
sified under this Order or prior Orders.
Except as provided in Section 3-503,
upon such a request the information shall
be reviewed for possible declassification,
provided the request reasonably describes
the information. Requests for declassi-
fication under this provision shall be acted
upon within 60 days. After review, the
information or any reasonably segregable
portion thereof that no longer requires
protection under this Order shall be de-
classified and released unless withholding
is otherwise warranted under applicable
law.
3-502. Requests for declassification
for declassification
which are submitted under the provisions
of the Freedom of Information Act shall
be processed in accordance with the pro-
visions of that Act.
3-503. Information less than ten years
old which was originated by the Presi-
dent, by the White House Staff, or by
committees or commissions appointed by
the President, or by others acting on be-
half of the President, including such in-
formation in the possession and control
of the Administrator of General Services
pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2107 or 2107 note,
is exempted from the provisions of Sec-
tion 3-501. Such information over ten
years old shall be subject to mandatory re-
view for declassification. Requests for
mandatory review shall be processed in
accordance with procedures developed by
the Archivist of the United States. These
procedures shall provide for consultation
with agencies having primary subject
matter interest. Any decision by the Ar-
chivist may be appealed to the Director
of the Information Security Oversight
Office. Agencies with primary subject
matter interest shall be notified promptly
of the Director's decision on such appeals
and may further appeal to the National
Security Council through the process set
forth in Section 3-104.
3-504. Requests for declassification of
classified documents originated by an
agency but in the possession and control
of the Administrator of General Services,
pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2107 or 2107 note,
shall be referred by the Archivist to the
agency of origin for processing in accord-
ance with Section 3-501 and for direct
response to the requestor. The Archivist
shall inform requestors of such referrals.
3-505. No agency in possession of a
classified document may, in response to
a request for the document made under
the Freedom of Information Act or this
Order's Mandatory Review provision,
refuse to confirm the existence or non-
existence of the document, unless the fact
of its existence or non-existence would it-
self be classifiable under this Order.
3-6. Downgrading.
3-601. Classified information that is
marked for automatic downgrading is
downgraded accordingly without notifi-
cation to holders.
3-602. Classified information that is
not marked for automatic downgrading
may be assigned a lower classification
designation by the originator or by other
authorized officials when such downgrad-
ing is appropriate. Notice of downgrad-
ing shall be provided to holders of the
information to the extent practicable.
SECTION 4. SAFEGUARDING.
4-1. General Restrictions on Access.
4-101. No person may be given access
to classified information unless that per-
1202
