Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
son has been determined to be trust-
worthy and unless access is necessary for
the performance of official duties.
4-102. All classified information shall
be marked conspicuously to put users on
notice of its current classification status
and, if appropriate, to show any special
distribution or reproduction restrictions
authorized by this Order.
4-103. Controls shall be established by
each agency to ensure that classified in-
formation is used, processed, stored, re-
produced, and transmitted only under
conditions that will provide adequate
protection and prevent access by unau-
thorized persons.
4-104. Classified information no
longer needed in current working files or
for reference or record purposes shall be
processed for appropriate disposition in
accordance with the provisions of Chap-
ters 21 and 33 of Title 44 of the United
States Code, which governs disposition
of Federal records.
4-105. Classified information dissemi-
nated outside the Executive branch shall
be given protection equivalent to that af-
forded within the Executive branch.
4-2. Special Access Programs.
4-201. Agency heads listed in Section
1-201 may create special access programs
to control access, distribution, and pro-
tection of particularly sensitive informa-
tion classified pursuant to this Order or
prior Orders. Such programs may be cre-
ated or continued only by written direc-
tion and only by those agency heads and,
for matters pertaining to intelligence
sources and methods, by the Director of
Central Intelligence. Classified informa-
tion in such programs shall be declassified
according to the provisions of Section 3.
4–202. Special access programs may be
created or continued only on a specific
showing that:
(a) normal management and safe-
guarding procedures are not sufficient to
limit need-to-know or access;
(b) the number of persons who will
need access will be reasonably small and
commensurate with the objective of pro-
viding extra protection for the informa-
tion involved; and
(c) the special access controls balance
the need to protect the information
against the full spectrum of needs to use
the information.
4-203. All special access programs shall
be reviewed regularly and, except those
required by treaty or international agree-
ment, shall terminate automatically every
five years unless renewed in accordance
with the procedures in Section 4-2.
4-204. Within 180 days after the effec-
tive date of this Order, agency heads
shall review all existing special access
programs under their jurisdiction and
continue them only in accordance with
the procedures in Section 4-2. Each of
those agency heads shall also establish and
maintain a system of accounting for spe-
cial access programs. The Director of the
Information Security Oversight Office
shall have non-delegable access to all such
accountings.
4-3. Access by Historical Researchers and
Former Presidential Appointees.
4-301. The requirement in Section
4-101 that access to classified information
may be granted only as is necessary for the
performance of official duties may be
waived as provided in Section 4-302 for
persons who:
(a) are engaged in historical research
projects, or
(b) previously have occupied policy-
making positions to which they were ap-
pointed by the President.
4-302. Waivers under Section 4-301
may be granted only if the agency with
jurisdiction over the information:
1203
