Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
volved in saying that a particular provi-
sion should be in or out of the contract,
but one that's freely negotiated. I was ob-
viously hoping that it would be approved.
U.S.-ISRAELI RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Mark Siegel, one of
your aides, quit today, and you accepted
his resignation with regret. He cited as
his reason, differences with your Middle
East policy.
His resignation, to many, symbolizes
the split in the American Jewish commu-
nity over the internal debate that's going
on over our Middle East policy. And with
Begin coming, I wonder if you could tell
us what differences there are between the
two of us, what your position will be on
these differences, and a comment on the
report that you're going to pressure him
to make significant concessions?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any in-
tention to pressure Prime Minister Begin.
I don't have any desire to do it and
couldn't if I wanted to. He's a very strong
and independent person representing a
strong and independent nation. Our role
has been that of an intermediary. And
one of the most pleasant respites that I
have had since I've been in office was the
brief time when Prime Minister Begin
and President Sadat were negotiating di-
rectly and I was out of the role of carry-
ing messages back and forth.
This is, however, a situation that has
now deteriorated to some degree since
President Sadat went to Jerusalem. Both
the military and the political talks are
now interrupted-we hope temporarily.
One of the things I will be doing is to
repeat to Prime Minister Begin person-
ally the request and the negotiating posi-
tions of President Sadat. And we've tried
to do this through our ambassadors and
through our negotiator, Mr. Atherton,ยน in
1 Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern and South Asian
Affairs.
the Mideast, and I think perhaps I can
do it perhaps a little more effectively.
But the differences that exist between
them are well known. In the Sinai, as I
said, they are relatively easy to resolve-
the Jewish settlements, the placement of
Egyptian forces in the Sinai, and some
continuation of Israeli control over some
airfields or aerodromes, and the rapidity
with which Israel would withdraw from
the Sinai itself.
In the West Bank, Gaza Strip, this in-
volves implementation of U.N. Resolu-
tion 242 and some resolution of the Pal-
estinian question. We do not and never
have favored an independent Palestinian
nation, but within that bound of con-
straint, how to give the Palestinians who
live in the West Bank, Gaza Strip some
voice in the determination of their own
future, is an issue still unresolved.
That outlines very briefly the situation
that we're presently in.
TAX REDUCTION
have
Q. Mr. President, in the past, you
indicated an interest to make taxes in the
upper brackets more equitable. Yet in
your present tax message, there is nothing
to have a limit of 50 percent on all tax-
able income, including dividends and in-
terest as well as earned income at the
present. Is there still hope that this is go-
ing to be done?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there will be an
alleviation of the tax burden on almost
every American under the tax proposal
that we put forward to the Congress.
Within the constraints of a $25 billion
net reduction, you can't make this an all-
inclusive proposal. I would say that most
of the reductions are not at the $200,000
or $250,000 or higher level. Most of the
reductions are in the low- and middle-in-
come family tax payments.
I think, though, that in general, the
proposal provides greater equity. It elim-
inates some of the unwarranted tax
494
