Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion tax credit and the increased student
aid I have proposed. I strongly urge the
Congress to act responsibly on the Ad-
ministration's proposals.
ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCA-
TION AMENDMENTS OF 1978
The legislation I am submitting today
involves the major elementary and sec-
ondary education
education programs. Since the
Administration of Lyndon Johnson the
primary role of these Federal programs
has been to support improvements in edu-
cational quality for all children and im-
prove the educational opportunities and
achievements of the disadvantaged, the
handicapped, those with limited English
language skills, Native Americans and
other minorities. I propose to continue
and strengthen the use of Federal re-
sources to meet special needs, and Federal
leadership in research and innovation.
These programs must focus on the
mastery of the basic skills necessary to
function in our highly complex society.
Every child should obtain the basic skills
of reading, writing and mathematics
early in his or her educational career.
This should be the fundamental goal for
our entire education system, and I hope
that Federal leadership will help us meet
that goal at every level of our school
system.
SPECIAL PROGRAMS FOR DISADVANTAGED
CHILDREN
I propose to improve Title I of the Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education Act
which provides supplemental educational
services to economically disadvantaged
children.
1. Concentration of Resources
Recent evaluations show that Title I is
beginning to raise the achievement levels
of low-income students. I propose to build
upon this success by incorporating in the
reauthorization of the Act a separate au-
thority to increase help for school districts
with high concentrations of poor children.
The amendments I propose will target
additional Title I funds to school dis-
tricts with large numbers of poor children
(5,000 or more) or large proportions
of poor children (20 percent or more),
for use in programs with a strong em-
phasis on basic skills. I have requested
$400 million in the 1979 budget for this
proposal, which would aid 3,500 school
districts and could increase the number of
Title I eligible children served to 6.5 mil-
lion.
This targeting of additional funds on
areas of greatest need will be of special
benefit to urban school systems with con-
centrations of low-income children. It is
an important part of our efforts to help
meet the needs of our cities. Yet the prob-
lems of educational disadvantage are not
unique to cities; therefore, while 67% of
the funds will flow to center-city school
systems, 33% will flow to rural and sub-
urban school systems which have similar
needs.
2. State Programs for Disadvantaged
Children
Strong State efforts are clearly neces-
sary to fully meet the needs of disad-
vantaged children. Currently, however,
fewer than twenty States have special pro-
grams to aid disadvantaged students. To
encourage the creation of compensatory
education programs at the State level, I
recommend that a share of future in-
creases in the Title I program be allo-
cated, on the basis of one Federal dollar
for every two State dollars, to States with
qualified compensatory education pro-
grams of their own. In fiscal year 1980
twenty percent of any increases would be
devoted to this matching program. In
future years an increasing percentage
would be made available.
I hope this Federal incentive program
will encourage a response at the State
426
