Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
wisely said free of interference of mili-
tary or other nature from outside forces
or from their proxies.
This is especially true today in Angola,
in the Horn of Africa, where we want to
see outside military forces and outside in-
fluence depart, because we are convinced,
as are you, that the people of Africa are
completely capable and have the desire to
shape their own affairs and need no out-
side help, except in a mutual bargaining
position related to economic develop-
ment, better health care, better educa-
tion, better housing, better food, better
clothing for the people here.
I might add one other point. I think it's
also true, if President Tolbert would for-
give my saying so, that he is now begin-
ning to enjoy a much more profound in-
fluence in the affairs of the continent of
Africa. His leadership qualities are now
being recognized by others. And with this
vigor that is being shown here in Liberia,
the beneficial influence of your societal
structure and your deep commitment to
the basic human rights values can be of
additional help to other struggling na-
tions not nearly so blessed as yours with
the long history of commitment to free-
dom.
I think it was a superb exhibition of
leadership recently when, under Presi-
dent Tolbert's leadership here in your
capital of Monrovia, the leaders of almost
enemy nations, ones who had not had a
peaceful relationship with one another,
were brought together, the West African
nations, and left this meeting with a new
public commitment to resolve their differ-
ences peacefully, and not in a spirit of
animosity or distrust or hatred.
This was a superb demonstration of
regional leadership. And if my informa-
tion is correct, when the Organization of
African Unity meets here next year, your
leader will be blessed again and Africa
will be blessed again with a new, addi-
tional assignment that will let the good
influence of Liberia be felt and also rec-
ognized throughout this continent. We
look forward to that bright prospect with
a great deal of interest and appreciation.
I might say that the most memorable
experience of a very fine trip for us was
the overwhelming welcome of your people
this morning.
In a nation with less than 2,000 total
inhabitants, only about 20 percent of
whom live here in the seacoast area, I was
amazed at the number of people who
came forward to express a welcome to us
all. And my only question is, where did
they all come from? And who was doing
the work in Liberia today while all your
people came to make us feel welcome? It
was an overwhelming experience, and I
could tell in the gestures that they made
and in the friendship on their faces that
they, like the people of the United States,
recognize the historic warmth that has
existed between our countries, the mutual
advantage that comes from this strong
friendship, and the prospect of an even
stronger and deeper and brighter friend-
ship in the months and the years ahead.
I would like to propose a toast at this
time. On behalf of the people of the
United States, I would like to propose a
toast to your great leader, President Tol-
bert, and to the wonderful people of the
great nation of Liberia.
NOTE: The exchange began at 2:15 p.m. in
the Presidential Dining Room at the Execu-
tive Mansion.
The President's Trip to Latin
America and Africa
Remarks on Arrival at the White House.
April 3, 1978
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, if
you'll pay attention here-[laughter]—
678
