Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the
rising monthly utility bills is an additional
incentive to save energy, and not a con-
trary factor. Obviously, when we consume
more energy than we produce in our
country, it means that there's a pressure
on limited supplies and competition for
those available supplies, and the prices go
up. As the price of coal and oil go up to
the consuming homeowner, they also go
up to the utility companies that produce
electric power.
Many utility companies around this
Nation have an automatic escalator
clause where, without any approval by
the regulatory agency in a State, they can
pass on those increased fuel costs to the
consumer. Obviously, the more we can
hold down our consumption of energy,
the more we can save on our monthly
fuel bills and the more we can hold down
the increase in oil, natural gas, and coal
prices.
One of the additional problems with
the lack of conservation is that we've
now increased our oil exports [imports]
to $45 billion a year, and they comprise
about 50 percent of all the oil we use. If
we should have-and heaven knows, I
hope we never have another oil em-
bargo where those supply interruptions
would afflict our Nation, it would be a
much more serious problem to our na-
tional security, to our own economic
prosperity, and, even, national existence
than it was back in 1973, when that tem-
porary interruption took place.
So, we've got to do at least two major
things, among others: Each one of us
conserve the energy that we consume by
every possible means; and second, to in-
crease the production of available sup-
plies in our country of energy-coal,
which can last several hundred years, and
particularly those replenishable supplies
derived from wood, from solar sources,
from geothermal supplies, and so forth.
SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE BERGLAND
Q. Jean Alice Small, the Daily Jour-
nal, Kankakee, Illinois, Mr. President.
Recently it was reported that the Sec-
retary of Agriculture Bergland is consid-
ering resignation from his Cabinet post
because of your position on agriculture
and the farm bill. May I ask if this is
true? And in reference to your Cabinet,
do you plan to make any Cabinet changes
in the near future or after the election?
THE PRESIDENT. That report was ab-
solutely erroneous. There was no basis
for it at all. There has not been any dif-
ference of opinion between myself and
Bob Bergland about agricultural policy.
At the Cabinet meeting Monday morn-
ing, Bob Bergland said that, as was the
case when Mark Twain said the report
of his own death had been exaggerated,
that he had never contemplated resign-
ing from the Cabinet. And as a matter
of fact, if Bob Bergland and I have ever
disagreed on a basic agricultural policy,
I'm not aware of it.
I contemplate no changes in my Cab-
inet. Nothing would please me better than
to finish 4 years with the same Cabinet I
presently have.
Q. Thank you for straightening it out.
FBI INDICTMENTS
Q. Mr. President, Bailey of the Min-
neapolis Tribune. Sir, the Attorney Gen-
eral said yesterday that 68 FBI agents
will be disciplined but not prosecuted in
connection with the burglary indictments,
conspiracy indictments that were handed
down yesterday.
Two questions related to that: Will the
names of those 68 agents and the disci-
pline applied be a matter of public rec-
ord; and second, the decision not to pros-
ecute them apparently was based on the
theory that they were following orders.
733
