Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 13
and Latinos have no place else to go ex-
cept to Joe.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't say
that. I don't know if you all have a list of
all the people in the Federal Government
who are concerned with Latin American
problems, but I don't have any admin-
istrators on the White House staff, zero.
These administrative decisions are
made within the Immigration Service,
among the Assistant Secretaries of Com-
merce and Labor and the Community
Services Administration and HEW. Many
of those people are Spanish-speaking. But
I don't intend to set up an administrative
office in the White House for any par-
ticular group.
Q. Why is it then that in recent--
several weeks ago in the press, it was re-
ported that Mayor Hatcher was going to
come on staff to take care of black con-
cerns?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's you
know I'm not responsible for everything
that's reported in the press. [Laughter]
Q. That's not true?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I wouldn't bring
anybody on board to take care of a par-
ticular constituency group. You know, if
someone does come to work for me like
Joe Aragon, who happens to speak
Spanish, or Bunny Mitchell, who happens
to be black, you know, if I felt they could
only deal with Spanish-speaking people
or black people, it would just be contrary
to what I want.
I don't think that we ought to isolate a
certain constituency group and have them
able to go, or constrained to go, to a
particular person in the White House. I
think if any Spanish-speaking person in
the country has a problem, you know, with
the Labor Department or HEW or HUD,
they ought to be free to go and ought to
be encouraged to go directly to the Cab-
inet members involved.
I don't like to run my Governor's office
in Georgia, or the White House here with
administrative responsibilities in the
White House. And I don't like to segment
my staff to be responsible for old people
or farmers or labor or business or women
or blacks or Spanish-speaking people.
I'd have such a fragmented admin-
istrative mechanism here that I couldn't
deal with it. I'd just rather not do that.
I do like to have people who are sensi-
tive, especially to the problems that face
those constituency groups. And I think
that Joe Aragon, although he does have a
broad range of responsibilities and also a
broad range of knowledge-he's respected
by the Cabinet members-he does have a
special sensitivity concerning the unique
problems and needs of Spanish-speaking
Americans.
But I would not want to have an entity
in the White House that was confined to
a responsibility just for Spanish-speaking
people.
CUBAN HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES
Q. Mr. President, when you went to
Miami before the election, you went to
our office of Replica Magazine. It's a
weekly magazine. We discussed there
about Cuba and human rights. Now Cas-
tro's in Angola, and human rights in
Cuba are the same as before. What do
you think about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, again, you
know, our policy on human rights is a
worldwide problem. Castro has thousands
of political prisoners still in jail. I don't
think he denys it.
There's some argument about exactly
how many thousands are in jail. Some of
those people have been in Cuban prisons
for almost 20 years, and a lot of them had
a sentence when originally incarcerated
that was 20 years. Our hope is at least
that he will release those political pris-
oners when their sentence expires.
907
