Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 18
adopted a joint resolution (S.J. Res. 124)
requesting the President to issue a proc-
lamation designating the week of
April 16 through April 22, 1978, as Na-
tional Oceans Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim the week begin-
ning Sunday, April 16, 1978, as National
Oceans Week.
I call upon public officials, users of the
oceans and coasts, environmental orga-
nizations, industry, the media and civic
nence in his own right as Military Gov-
ernor of the U.S. Zone of Germany and
Commander in Chief of the United
States forces in Europe.
He demonstrated America's determina-
tion that Berlin must remain free when
he defied the Russian blockade of that
city with the Berlin airlift. Perhaps of
equal importance historically was his ded-
ication to the reconstruction of West Ger-
many's postwar economy.
I join millions of Americans in mourn-
leaders to join together to make the pub-ing General Clay's passing and in offering
my sympathies to his family.
lic aware of the importance of our ocean
resources and I urge every American to
take the time and trouble to learn about
the proper use and management of our Special Session of the United
marine waters and the wealth of their
contents.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:11 p.m., April 18, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on April 18.
Death of General Lucius D. Clay
Statement by the President. April 18, 1978
I am saddened by the death of Gen.
Lucius D. Clay, who served his Nation
throughout the world, in time of peace
and war, as soldier, engineer, diplomat,
statesman, industrialist, and financier.
After serving as General Eisenhower's
deputy during World War II, General
Clay went on to achieve worldwide emi-
Nations General Assembly
on Disarmament
Accordance of the Rank of Ambassador to
Lawrence D. Weiler. April 18, 1978
The President today announced that
he has accorded the personal rank of
Ambassador to Lawrence D. Weiler
while he serves as Special Adviser to
Ambassador Andrew Young at the
United Nations General Assembly Spe-
cial Session on Disarmament, scheduled
for May 20.
Weiler is Special Coordinator for this
U.N. Special Session at the Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Agency (ACDA).
He was with ACDA from 1971 to 1973
in various positions, including Chief of
the Office of Political Analysis and Re-
search and Counselor of the Agency.
From 1973 to 1977, he was at Stanford
University as a visiting scholar, adjunct
professor, and associate director of the
arms control and disarmament program.
He has been Special Coordinator for the
U.N. Special Session since 1977.
757
