Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
privileges that have existed too long. And
of course, the net effect of it is the sub-
stantial reduction in both personal and
corporate taxes.
But the higher income families that
you've described, above $100,000 income,
would not be benefited on a percentage
basis nearly so much as the middle- and
lower-income families.
RHODESIA
Q. Mr. President, in view of the great
amount of discussion that's going on now
about internal Rhodesian settlement,
which excludes the Patriotic Front, is it
possible in your view to have a settlement
of the Rhodesian crisis without including
Mr. Nkomo and Mr. Mugabe?
THE PRESIDENT. I would doubt that
we could have a permanent settlement
without including the right for all the na-
tionalist leaders to participate. That
would include Mugabe, Sithole, and
would also, of course, include Nkomo as
well. Muzorewa, the other leader, was
here yesterday and met with Secretary
Vance. We have had a meeting, yester-
day afternoon, between myself, Secretary
Vance, and the Foreign Minister of Great
Britain, David Owen. And we recon-
firmed our position, which has been con-
sistent, that the Anglo-American plan is
the best basis for a permanent resolution
of the Rhodesian or Zimbabwe question.
It's one that is substantially supported by
the frontline presidents, presidents of
those nations surrounding Rhodesia. And
it has not been accepted completely by
Nkomo and Mugabe, the Freedom Force
leaders outside of Rhodesia.
We hope now that we can have a con-
ference of all the interested nationalist
leaders to try to work out the disparity
between the internal settlement proposal,
which is not adequate, and the so-called
Anglo-American plan, which we believe
to be adequate.
We've not rejected the individual com-
ponent parts of the so-called internal set-
tlement plan. To the extent that they are
consistent with the overall Anglo-Ameri-
can plan provisions, they are a step in the
right direction. But I think that it must
be that any permanent settlement would
include the right of all the interested na-
tionalist leaders to seek the leadership of
Rhodesia.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, what are your plans
if the coal miners refuse to obey Taft-
Hartley and return to work? What do you
do then?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the injunction,
if it is granted-and the hearing for a tem-
porary restraining order in commencing
now, about 3:30-it's a far-reaching in-
junction. It prevents the interference of
any law violators with those who want to
go back to work. It prevents a picketing
against those who are complying with the
law and mining coal. It requires the coal
mineowners and the mineworkers to
recommence negotiation efforts. It pre-
vents the interference with the transpor-
tation of coal in any form, and it provides
a legal mechanism by which the Federal
law enforcement officials and the State
and local law enforcement officials can
provide for the protection of lives and
property.
I believe the coal miners to be law-
abiding and patriotic citizens. And I be-
lieve that a substantial portion of them,
an adequate proportion of them, will
comply with the law. We also have modi-
fied the historic provisions of the Taft-
Hartley law by encouraging the operators
and the mineworkers to negotiate during
this period regional settlements based on
the wage package which was in general
agreement from the very beginning weeks
of the negotiations themselves. So, I be-
lieve that the law will be obeyed.
495
