May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
goal. We've tried to increase the amount
of Federal money deposited in banks
owned by minority owners. And this is
the kind of thrust that we've tried to
maintain all the way through.
I brought into the White House, too, a
knowledge of some of the problems
caused by Federal agencies. We've got a
wonderful leader now, both in the Labor
Department and in OSHA, and last
alone, we reduced the number of OSHA
regulations by 30 percent, and we're still
working on them.
year
And Dr. Eula Bingham is spending a
lot of her time out talking to people like
you all over the country, to say what do
we need to make sure that workers in our
businesses, in our factories are safe and
healthy and not have an onerous burden
on both the workers and the employers
in bringing about that safety and that
good health that we all want.
I've asked Vernon Weaver and Sena-
tor Nelson to help me arrange a White
House Conference on Small Business
next year, and we are preparing for that
very carefully.
In the process, we've identified 200
small businesses around the country as
test cases, and we are trying to analyze
throughout this period what Federal
reports, documents, requests have to be
filed, to see how many of them are neces-
sary, how many of them can be elimin-
ated, how many of them can be abbrevi-
ated, how many of them can be changed
from a monthly report to a semiannual
or annual report, how many of them can
be combined so you don't have to send
the same data to many Government
agencies.
I think out of this process will come an
additional degree of effectiveness for the
Federal Government itself. I've asked all
the major agency heads-will, within the
next few days-to bring to the Small
Business White House Conference one
major proposal from their own agency
that will be of benefit to people like you.
Well, I could go on and on listing the
kinds of things that we are trying to do in
partnership with you to strengthen our
free enterprise system and to strengthen
the ties that ought to exist between
government, particularly the Federal
level, and you.
I know how superb the performance
of the small business leaders is in our
country. And to be chosen as the out-
standing small business person in our
Nation is indeed a high honor. This after-
noon we are recognizing the person that
has been chosen from our whole country.
Ed Gaffney has been chosen the out-
standing small business person of the
year. He organized his own business,
Ortho-Kinetics, I believe, in 1962, when
his own mother, who was afflicted by
arthritis, had a hard time being moved
around and getting in and out of a
wheelchair. And in the process, he has
now evolved a very fine small business to
help handicapped people of all kinds.
Not only is his heart in the right place,
a business that obviously serves others, but
he's been very effective in the manage-
ment, in the growth, and in deriving a
substantial and justifiable profit from his
effort.
So, it's with a great deal of pleasure
that I introduce to you and to the people
of the United States, the outstanding
small business person of the year, Ed
Gaffney.
Let me just read the title while Ed
stands over here by me. "The United
States of America Small Business Admin-
istration presents the National Small
Business Person of the Year Award, 1978,
to Edward Gaffney for exemplifying the
imagination, initiative, independence,
820
