Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
and local courts combined. We must ask
whether this is the right way or the best
way to conserve our legal resources or to
ensure justice.
We are reviewing suggestions for re-
ducing litigation, including more arbitra-
tion, greater reliance on small claims
courts, and experiments with alternative
systems for resolving disputes, such as the
experimental arbitration systems now in
existence in San Francisco, in Phila-
delphia, and in other parts of our coun-
try.
But even with all these steps, much
litigation will, of course, still be neces-
sary. There are a variety of steps that can
be taken together to make necessary liti-
gation more efficient and to reduce un-
necessary delays.
I support legislation now in Congress
to expand the functions and the jurisdic-
tion of Federal magistrates, to reduce the
burden on Federal judges.
I support a speedy appeals act to re-
duce the delay between sentencing and
appeal, and I've directed Attorney
General Bell to study whether we can
also apply strict time limits to civil trials
and to regulatory proceedings.
I have too much respect for the poten-
tial of the law to believe that this leader-
ship is not possible from you.
I hope that lawyers throughout the
country will take up the challenges I
have made today. I know you understand
the responsibility to serve justice. You
have dedicated your very lives to this
task.
This responsibility is older than our
Constitution, older than the Bill of
Rights, older even than the tradition of
the common law. It comes from the roots
of our Western heritage, with the prophet
Amos, who said, "Let justice roll down
like waters, and righteousness like an
ever-flowing stream."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:13 p.m. at
the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion of the Los
Angeles Music Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Samuel L. Williams, president,
and John D. Taylor, president-elect, Los An-
geles County Bar Association.
Following his remarks, the President at-
tended a reception for bar and civic leaders
and elected officials in the Founders Room at
the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion.
Those of us—Presidents and lawyers Los Angeles, California
who enjoy privilege, power, and influence
in our society can be called to harsh
account for the ways we are using this
power. Our hierarchy of privilege in this
Nation, based not on birth but on social
and economic status, tends to insulate
some of us from the problems faced by
the average American. The natural tend-
ency for all of us is to ignore what does
not touch us directly. The natural temp-
tation when dealing with the law is to
ensure that whatever is legal is just.
Remarks at the Senior Citizens Nutrition
Center of the Watts Labor Community
Action Committee. May 4, 1978
But if our Nation is to thrive, if we are
to fulfill the vision and promise of our
Founding Fathers, if we are truly to serve
the ends of justice, we must look beyond
these comfortable insulations of privi-
lege.
So I won't forget: Ted Watkins, Gover-
nor Brown, Mayor Tom Bradley, Con-
gressman Hawkins and Senator Waters,
Supervisor Hahn, Merv Dymally, other
Members of the Congress, my friends,
ladies and gentlemen:
How you doing? I'm glad to be back.
As many of you may remember, this is
where I started my campaign in Los An-
geles. I was a stranger and you took me
in. I thank you for it.
It's been almost 2 years since I was
here also to dedicate part of the Martin
Luther King Hospital, and 2 years ago
841
