Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
And so, I think it's important for me as
President, not being preoccupied or fear-
ful, to let the world know what the cir-
cumstances are, because I think it's con-
trary to the hope that we all have for
peace.
about these polls?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not a candi-
date for reelection. That's a question that
I'll decide much later.
I've never been particularly excited
about very good polls, and I've never been
Q. But what's our vested interest in particularly concerned about very poor
Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a major
vested interest in Africa. Our trade rela-
tionships are there. It's a tremendous de-
veloping continent. It goes all the way
from ancient and highly developed civili-
zations, as you well know, in Egypt, in the
northern part of Africa, through a bur-
geoning black population in the southern
part of Africa.
In the past, we've not had an adequate
interest there. And almost by default, be-
cause we came in late or because we were
not involved in a friendly, normal trade
relationship where mutual trust and mu-
tual friendships existed, we saw those
countries turning to Marxist countries or
Eastern countries for their support and
their friendship. I think they would
rather have a balanced relationship be-
tween us and the Soviets. I think in many
instances they would rather have a dem-
ocratic friend than to have a totalitarian
friend. And I want to make sure they have
that option.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Basil Talbott of the Chicago Sun
Times. Recent polls have shown your
popularity dropping. I guess the Harris
poll released this week showed that either
Senator Kennedy or former President
Ford could beat you if the election were
held today. And there are some reports
that your aides have urged you to get out
around the Nation and try to bolster that
image. I wonder if your trips to places
like this-is that one of the purposes for
this trip? And if it is, does that mean that
you're a candidate for reelection? And
whether you are or not, are you concerned
polls. They go up and down, as you well
know. And quite often, polls vary among
themselves at a particular time.
We've tried to address the crucial issues
of our Nation without being fearful about
political consequences. In some cases, they
are long overdue in being addressed. Re-
organization of government, welfare re-
form, energy policy, the Turkey arms em-
bargo, which is now coming up, Mideast
arms sales, the Panama Canal treaties-
these things are not easy to do. And I
could very well make every decision that
I have confronting me on the basis of how
it would affect me in the polls. I don't
think that's the best leadership attitude
for me to have. But I am concerned about
it. I wish my popularity in the country was
much higher.
And obviously, one of my duties as
President is to get out among the people
throughout the country, because I learn in
the process. And in having these regional
press conferences like this, talking to your
legislature tomorrow, meeting with Dem-
ocratic people tonight, and so forth, which
I've done periodically ever since I've been
in office, even when my opinion poll re-
sults were very high, I think it helps me
to understand our country better.
So, I'd say it's a combination of hoping
the people will understand and therefore
like what I do, or at least sympathize with
me and, in the process, let me learn more
about the country.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-second news
conference began at 4 p.m. in the Crystal Ball-
room at the Blackstone Hotel. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
979
