Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
MR. LEWIS. Is there a mechanism to
see that all these things are carried out?
Many Presidents have made proposals,
but they never reached the people that
they were designed to help. Now that's
the problem, and therein lies the suspi-
cion, I think.
The President. I know. Well, this pro-
gram was put together not only with the
mayors and Governors and the private
sector leaders but with every Cabinet
member who works with me. I was per-
sonally involved and approved every sin-
gle program myself. And within the White
House, Jack Watson, who coordinates
among the Cabinet members on an every-
day basis and his responsibility is to
work directly with the mayors and Gover-
nors of the Nation-will help to provide a
White House influence now and in the
future.
I've also called on the leading officials,
both in the private and public sectors at
all levels of government, to participate
consistently and continuously in assessing
how well the programs are administered.
So, I think these built-in factors in the
program will help to ensure that if a pro-
gram doesn't work, we'll know it doesn't
and why; if a program does work, it's a
kind of opportunity for improvement or
enlargement that we can have in the fu-
ture.
SUPPORT FROM BLACK AMERICANS
MR. JARRETT. Mr. President, may
we address ourselves to the political arena
for a moment? I was at the Urban League
convention, when your friend Vernon Jor-
dan attacked your administration, and I
was also at the Congressional Black Cau-
cus annual weekend, when you were also
under sharp criticism. And I noticed that
after each one of those attacks on you, you
did come before black audiences, and
some people said you scored a success. I
want to ask you this: To just hazard a
guess, do you believe that you have lost
much of the black support, that 94 per-
cent of the black voter turnout that won
you the election? Do you think you've lost
any of that yourself, despite what the
leaders may say?
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that the
leaders to whom you referred, I think at
this point, are very supportive of me and
my administration, what it has done, and
the programs we've put forward.
I look upon the Urban League, the
NAACP, the black mayors and other pub-
lic officials, the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, as forums from which their leadership
can and should criticize my administra-
tion and other leaders in our country when
we don't deal adequately with the needs
of black and other minority people in this
country. I don't find any fault with that.
I think they have a responsibility and a
duty to point out deficiencies in my pro-
grams. And I'd listen very carefully.
There's never a public statement made
by any one of those leaders that I de-
scribed, and others, that doesn't get in-
stant attention in the White House.
MR. JARRETT. Many have spoken about
disappointments, the fact that maybe in
13 States the black vote did make the dif-
ference. Do you feel that if an election
were held today, that you could still cap-
ture that 94 percent of the black vote?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say two
things: First, I don't take anything for
granted, and I wouldn't take the black
vote for granted. That would be the worst
mistake I could make. Secondly, I've done
my best to earn the continuing support of
black people, and I don't think that in the
examination of what we have done we
are subject to legitimate criticism. We're
trying to do even better. So my
you would be yes, but I don't take it for
granted.
MR. BRYANT. Mr. President, it would
seem that there may be an easy test for
the extent to which black support still
690
