Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 10
power in our country as a major element
of energy production. Our light water nu-
clear plants, using enriched uranium, are
adequate for the time being.
We have a very heavy research and de-
velopment program going on for future
production, including the liquid metal
fast breeder reactors. We do not need to
waste our money at this time in produc-
tion models of the breeder reactor. We
have one already in existence, a relatively
inexpensive program using thorium.
But I believe that the Congress has
taken a major step forward. And I am
very grateful this morning to sign the leg-
islation which would put into effect a clar-
ified and an adequate American policy
on the use and provision of atomic fuels
to ourselves and to other countries and,
at the same time, rigid constraints which
would prevent the acquisition of explosive
capability by nations that are not pres-
ently part of the nuclear explosive club.
So, thank you very much, all of you
who helped so much in this legislation.
And now I would like to sign this very im-
portant bill.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Thank you very much.
Chuck, would you like to say a word?
I remember that in 1976, when I spent
the night with John Glenn and his wife,
this was one of the subjects that we dis-
cussed, the hope that some day we could
have a nonproliferation bill passed. The
first conversation I ever had with Senator
Ribicoff was when he called me on the
telephone to congratulate me on a speech
I made at San Diego about the same sub-
ject.
John, perhaps you would like to say a
word?
SENATOR GLENN. I just think this is a
day that all of us have looked forward to.
Some of us in the Congress have been
working on this for quite some time. I
know when President Carter, during the
campaign, made his statements on this, I
was wholeheartedly behind what he was
proposing at that time.
I'm just glad to have been part of get-
ting it through. It's a great day for all of
us.
THE PRESIDENT. It is.
Clem.
REPRESENTATIVE ZABLOCKI. Mr. Presi-
dent, it is gratifying to see legislation for
which we labored long has become a law.
It is an indication that the executive
branch and the legislative branch can
work together. We had great concentra-
tion on this legislation with your office.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
Chuck Percy.
SENATOR PERCY. Mr. President, this is
a bipartisan effort, obviously. I think this
day marks the moment when the nuclear
nonproliferators take over against the
nuclear salesmen. But also I think it's an
safeguards, we will be a reliable supplier.
assurance to the world that, given proper
But we insist upon safety of humanity in
taking first precedence, I think, over the
sale of nuclear materials.
We thank you for your immense co-
operation ever since the outset of your
administration and, I might say, in the
course of your campaign, which helped
also.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
This has been one of the major proj-
ects of Jonathan Bingham as well.
BINGHAM. Thank
RepresentatiVE
you, Mr. President.
We are very proud of your leadership
in this, Mr. President, and it has been a
privilege to work with you and your as-
sociates in this matter. I would just like to
say that I think the enactment into law
of this legislation represents the begin-
ning, in a way, of a task which will stretch
499
