Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 23
advantaged persons in private sector jobs
by increasing the involvement of the busi-
ness community in local employment and
training programs.
I view a workable urban strategy as an
important link in a well-articulated do-
mestic program and essential to the con-
tinuing recovery of the national economy.
This budget includes increases for many
programs benefiting urban areas and sup-
ports several efforts to improve these pro-
grams. I anticipate sending to the Con-
gress early in the spring a set of further
proposals dealing with the Nation's urban
problems.
-The Nation's armed forces must al-
ways stand sufficiently strong to deter
aggression and to assure our security.
My request for defense provides for the
steady modernization of our strategic
forces, and for substantial improvements
in the combat readiness of our tactical
forces. To parallel commitments made by
our European allies, I am proposing sig-
nificant increases in our overall defense
effort, with special emphasis on those
forces and capabilities most directly re-
lated to our NATO commitments. The de-
-The Federal Government has an ob-
ligation to nurture and protect our
environment-the common resource,
birthright and sustenance of the
American people.
This budget provides for substantially
increased emphasis on protection of all
our environmental resources, for new at-
tention to our common heritage, and for
substantial additions to our system of pub-
lic lands. Planned use of our natural re-
sources has been designed so that the most
important of our unspoiled areas can re-
main forever in the hands of the people.
-The Federal Government must lead
the way in investing in the Nation's
technological future.
Shortly after taking office, I deter-
mined that investment in basic research
on the part of the Federal Government
had fallen far too low over the past dec-
ade. Accordingly, I directed that a careful
review be undertaken of appropriate basic
research opportunities. As a result of that
review, this budget proposes a real rate of
growth of almost 5% for basic research
in 1979. I believe this emphasis is im-
portant to the continued vitality of our
economy.
This budget also reflects this adminis-
tration's commitment to two important
fense budget I recommend also empha- approaches to making government work
sizes modernization and research and de-
velopment to meet future challenges to
our security. But at the same time, I am
restraining defense expenditures by in-
troducing important efficiencies and by
placing careful priorities upon our de-
fense needs. The 1979 defense budget is
prudent and tight, but consists of a real
growth in outlays of 3% above the cur-
rent year's budget. Consistent with cam-
paign pledges to the American people, it
is $8 billion below the defense budget pro-
jected for 1979 by the previous adminis-
tration.
more efficiently and responsively: reor-
ganization and zero-base budgeting.
The reorganization effort I have
launched seeks more than just a stream-
lining of organization structure and the
elimination of overlaps and duplication.
It seeks to make our Government more
responsive, more efficient, and more
clearly focused on the most pressing needs
of our society. In 1977 I proposed—and
the Congress accepted-a Cabinet-level
Department of Energy, a streamlined Ex-
ecutive Office of the President, and a con-
solidation of our international informa-
187
