Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 19
National Architectural
Barrier Awareness Week
Letter to Members of the National
Association of Theater Owners.
May 19, 1978
To the Theater Owners of America
America loves to go to the movies, but
many people in our country who would
like to go to the movies cannot. Even two
steps at the theater entrance pose insur-
mountable obstacles to many handi-
capped people.
During National Architectural Barriers
Week, all Americans are being called
upon to recognize those barriers that phys-
ically and psychologically keep handi-
capped Americans from full participation
in our society. I am calling on all Ameri-
cans to do everything possible to eliminate
such barriers. I commend your president's
call on theater owners to improve the ac-
cess to motion picture theaters for the
handicapped. I urge the American busi-
ness community to follow your voluntary
example by creating more accessible fa-
cilities.
The National Architectural and Trans-
portation Compliance Board here in
Washington will be glad to provide infor-
mation and advice on how you can make
your theaters more accessible to the phys-
ically handicapped. Also, the Tax Re-
form Act of 1976 allows a tax deduction
up to $25,000 for businesses that make fa-
cilities accessible to the handicapped.
This deduction is available through 1979.
I congratulate you on your leadership
and on your efforts to help build a bar-
rier-free America.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The President proclaimed the week of
May 21-27, 1978, as National Architectural
Barrier Awareness Week by Proclamation 4566,
of April 25. The text of the proclamation is
printed on page 774 of this volume.
In response to the proclamation, Marvin
Goldman, president of the National Associa-
tion of Theater Owners, issued an open letter
to members of the association calling on them
to do all that they can to eliminate physical
barriers in movie theaters across the country.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the is-
sue are not included.
May 13
The President was represented at the
memorial services in Rome for former
Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro by Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Joseph A. Califano, Jr., head of the dele-
gation; Senator Pete V. Domenici of New
Mexico; Representative Frank Annunzio
of Illinois; and Richard N. Gardner, U.S.
Ambassador to Italy.
May 14
The President returned to the White
House after a weekend stay at Camp
David, Md.
May 15
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National
National Security
Affairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-Nelson H. Cruikshank, Counsellor to
the President on Aging;
-Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall;
933
