June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, thank you for letting me be part of
it and thank you for being such wonderful
men, such wonderful leaders, such won-
derful sportsmen, such a wonderful repre-
sentation of what our country is.
Thank you again.
BOB FERRY. Mr. President, on behalf of
the team and the entire Bullet organiza-
tion, [it is] a great deal of honor to present
a basketball to the President of the United
States. This is unreal. [Laughter]
MR. MOTTA. Mr. President, I just
want to say one thing. I saw your picture
this morning on the front page of the
paper, catching a Frisbee. And you were
so athletic looking, and we had our draft
today I told Bob Ferry to draft you
No. 2.
The President. It's a real honor for
me also to welcome back Larry O'Brien.
He helped to make the White House and
the Presidential administration a subject
of admiration when he was here. His re-
lationship to a great President, John Ken-
nedy, and the superb work he did to tie
together the White House and the Con-
gress has set a standard for all those who
came afterwards. And I know that he has
contributed just as much in dealing with
the National Basketball Association, and
I'm honored just to have Larry O'Brien a
good friend of mine, and I'm sure a good
friend of yours—although you may not
always recognize it. [Laughter]
So, Larry O’Brien.
MR. O'BRIEN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. And I want to simply express the
thanks of the National Basketball Associ-
ation for all of us for the high honor of
being here with you today and Mrs. Car-
ter. It's a great privilege.
It's 10 years ago since I was in this
building; I walked in here today for the
first time in 10 years. And I spent 8 very
interesting, sometimes frustrating, as you
understand, but good years here some time
ago. So, thank you very much on behalf
of all of us in the world of basketball for
your kindness, you and Mrs. Carter, in
having us here today. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:10 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House. In his re-
marks, he referred to Wesley Unseld, player,
and Abe Pollin, owner, Washington Bullets.
Bob Ferry is general manager of the team, and
Lawrence F. O'Brien, former Special Assistant
to President Kennedy, is commissioner of the
National Basketball Association.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the
period covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
June 4
The President returned to the White
House after a weekend stay at Camp
David, Md.
June 5
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-Secretary of Labor F. Ray Marshall
and a group of Senators to discuss
labor law reform;
-the Cabinet.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the
President received diplomatic credentials
from Ambassadors W. S. Karunaratne of
the Republic of Sri Lanka, Jose Miguel
Barros of Chile, and José Rafael Eche-
verría of Costa Rica.
The President attended a fiscal year
1980 Federal budget issues meeting in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
1070
