Jan. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, can you be more
specific-maybe you don't want to be-
on what you mean when you say Pales-
tinians have the right to participate in
their own self-determination?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't really want to
spell out in any more detail what the pro-
cedure ought to be. Dayan and Kamel 2
will be meeting in Jerusalem on the 15th
of January. Cy Vance will be there. We'll
offer our good offices.
My own preference is that the Israelis
and Egyptians negotiate that interim
procedure with a final referendum them-
selves. We'll try to find some compromise
between them. I think if we can evolve
an acceptable set of principles, then it
would be much easier for King Hussein
and, perhaps later on, the Syrians to join
in the discussions. I did not try to con-
vince Hussein to participate now.
I feel and he feels also that Sadat is
adequately representing the Arab position.
And I think Sadat, in an almost unique
way, not only has the trust of his own
people and the rest of the world but also,
to a substantial degree, the trust of the
Israeli citizens.
So, all of us feel for now until Sadat
specifically requests it, that Hussein should
stay out of the direct negotiations. The
Shah will be supportive, the Saudis were
very encouraging about the future, and
Hussein and we agree completely.
And So, I think that the present posture
is a good one. But exactly how the vote
should be handled or when or what the
options might be offered to the Pales-
tinians, I don't want to say. I don't know.
Q. Can I also ask you, do you think
that as a result of your visit there, that
2 Moshe Dayan, Foreign Minister of Israel,
and Mohamed Ibrahim Kamel, Foreign Minis-
ter of Egypt.
Sadat's position with the hardline critics
of the Arab world has been improved
and that he's strengthened his hand as a
result of this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think I
would be violating any confidence to say
that all the Arab leaders with whom I
met said they support Sadat unequivo-
cally. Now, the feeling of Syria is some-
thing that I can't assess. I didn't happen
to talk to Asad lately, but the feeling of
Iraq and Libya and the more radical
Arabs is obvious. They don't want peace
to prevail. They don't want a settlement
to be reached. They don't want the
Geneva conference to be concluded. And
many of them still have as a unique pur-
pose the destruction of Israel.
I don't think that Asad or King Hus-
sein or Sadat or the Saudis-the ones
with whom I've talked-I don't think
any of them feel that way. I think they
all are perfectly willing to accept Israel
now as a permanent entity in the Middle
East, living in peace.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, before we left, you
said you were going to talk about human
rights, and you certainly did, I think, just
about every place we went.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. But since we were in Poland, where
you told us about Gierek's commitment
to you on emigration rights, I don't think
we had any specific information that any
of the leaders have given to you any
reaction to your own position. Is there
anything specific? In particular I am
thinking about Iran. Have there been any
concessions that we haven't learned
about?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Obviously, we
don't seek concessions on human rights in
Belgium or Egypt or France. In Iran, the
46
