Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
members of the Board of Directors of the
Legal Services Corporation: Cecilia
Esquer, Steven Engelberg, Hillary Rod-
ham, Richard Trudell, Josephine Worthy.
American Heart Month, 1978
Proclamation 4546. January 19, 1978
cardiovascular system and its diseases has
been amassed and much of it has found
application in better methods of preven-
tion, diagnosis, and treatment. In addi-
tion, many Americans have modified their
diets, established sensible and regular
exercise programs, changed their smoking
habits, or have otherwise altered their
lifestyles to achieve better cardiovascular
health. As a result, mortality rates have
declined steadily since 1950 in nearly all
By the President of the United States major cardiovascular disease categories
of America
A Proclamation
Diseases of the heart and blood vessels
afflict some thirty million Americans.
Each year cardiovascular disorders claim
nearly one million lives and cost our
economy nearly forty-eight billion dollars
in lost wages, lost productivity, and
medical expenses.
Since 1948, a concerted national effort
has been under way to reduce illness, dis-
ability, and death from heart and blood
vessel diseases through nationwide pro-
grams of biomedical research in the car-
diovascular field, training of research
workers and clinicians, information and
education programs for health profes-
sionals and for the general public, and
community service activities concerned
with prevention, detection, and control of
cardiovascular disorders.
These efforts have been spearheaded
by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute, a federal agency, and the
American Heart Association, a voluntary
health organization supported through
private contributions. Since 1948, their
combined outlay in support of the na-
tional battle against cardiovascular dis-
eases has totaled nearly three billion
dollars.
During these thirty years, an immense
amount of new knowledge about the
and the total number of deaths among
Americans from these diseases is the low-
est it has been since 1965.
But these encouraging results are no
excuse for complacency. On the contrary,
they show that it is only through sustained
dedication and cooperation among public
officials, community leaders, private insti-
tutions, and the American people that we
have any chance of controlling this threat
to the health of our Nation.
Recognizing the need for all Americans
to join forces in the battle against cardio-
vascular disease, the Congress, by joint
resolution approved December 30, 1963
(77 Stat. 843; 36 U.S.C. 169b) has re-
quested the President to issue annually
a proclamation designating February as
American Heart Month.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the month of Febru-
ary, 1978, as American Heart Month. I
invite the Governors of the States, the
appropriate officials of all other areas sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United
States and the American people to join
with me in reaffirming our commitment
to the search for new ways to prevent,
detect and control cardiovascular disease
in all its forms.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
January, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
89
