May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
who tried to give them gifts, some of them
who were there-Ezer Weizman ยน told me
that people would come out of their jew-
elry stores and try to put in their hands
very expensive rings and diamonds, just
as a gift from the Egyptian people for try-
ing to strive for peace.
So, the essence of what we've tried to
do is to capitalize on the genuine desire
of the Arabs and Israelis to find peace,
and a great deal of progress has been
made. The first time I talked to Sadat in
the seclusion of the upstairs bedroom area
of the White House, he said, "What do
you want, Mr. President, me to do?"
And I said, "I want you first of all to
recognize that Israel has a right to exist,
to exist permanently and to exist in peace.
Secondly, I want you to reach out your
hand and talk directly with the leaders of
Israel, not through us as an intermediary.
And third, I want you to recognize that
there can be genuine peace between the
Egyptians and Israelis, open borders,
trade, tourist exchange, student ex-
change, diplomatic recognition."
He said, "Mr. President, that will never
happen in my lifetime." Less than a year
later, Sadat adopted all those requests of
mine and laid them on the table. The
Israelis responded accordingly. Begin has
now put forward some good ideas.
Now, it comes to the arms question.
Our interest in the Mideast is not as a
distant observer. It's not just as a post-
man to carry messages back and forth be-
tween the Israelis and the Egyptians and
others. Most of the time the messages are
not received well, as you know, because
each side wants more than the other one
is willing to offer. We're not just a dis-
interested person or party.
We have an intense, serious, national
interest in Middle Eastern peace, first
1 Israeli defense minister.
of all, because of our total commitment
that will never be shaken, that Israel
shall be free, protected, secure, and peace-
ful. That overrides everything else.
The second, though, is my realization
that the best way to do that is to also have
the friendship and the trust and the part-
nership of the moderate Arab leaders,
leaders like Sadat, a peaceful man, lead-
ers like the Saudi Arabians, who have
been staunch friends and allies of ours-
there's no other government that I can
think of that's been more helpful to me as
President than those from Saudi Arabia.
We don't want them to turn against
each other. We don't want them to turn
against Israel. We don't want them to
turn to even other European countries
or to the Soviet Union for their own
security.
The Saudis, for instance, in the most
controversial part of the arms package,
have requested 60 F-15 airplanes to be
delivered between now and 1983. It's a
very modest request.
When President Ford was in office, Sec-
retary Kissinger promised the Saudi Ara-
bians, with the full knowledge of the De-
fense Department, many leaders in the
Congress, "We will give you whichever
you want, F-16's" which are primarily
offensive planes- "or the F-15"-which
is the finest defensive fighter plane in the
world.
I reaffirmed this commitment when I
first became President, and again in Jan-
uary when I went to Saudi Arabia to meet
with King Khalid and the leaders. I said,
"We will make this delivery." They chose
the F-15, the defensive fighter. They did
not ever ask us to put bombracks or of-
fensive weapons on the F-15.
I think it's much better for us to keep
that sense in Saudi Arabia that we are
their friends, they can trust us when we
make a commitment or a promise on the
866
