Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
est level review of and guidance for the
policies and practices of the Intelligence
Community.
-The PRC, when acting on intelli-
gence matters, will be chaired by the DCI
and is charged with defining and estab-
lishing priorities for consumer require-
ments for intelligence, making sure these
are reflected in budget decisions, and
evaluation of analytical products. This
ensures that the needs of the most im-
portant users of intelligence will guide the
entire intelligence process.
-The SCC, chaired by the Assistant to
the President for National Security Af-
fairs, will review and make recommenda-
tions to the President on the most sensitive
intelligence operations and, as appropri-
ate, on collection activities. This commit-
tee will also, for the first time, assume
responsibility for developing policy for
and coordination of all counterintelli-
gence activities.
2. The authorities and responsibilities of
all departments, agencies, and senior of-
ficials engaged in foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence activities are being
made public. Those implementing direc-
tives which must remain classified for se-
curity reasons will be made available to
the appropriate congressional oversight
committees. The new order implements
my earlier decision to centralize under
the DCI the most important national in-
telligence management functions-collec-
tion requirements, budget control, and
analysis-while operational and support
activities are left unchanged and decen-
tralized.
The specific operational responsibilities
of each of the elements of the Intelligence
Community, as well as their most impor-
tant community relationships, are spelled
out. Two important organizational mech-
anisms are established to facilitate these
functions:
-The National Intelligence Tasking
Center, operating in peacetime under the
control of the DCI or under the Secretary
of Defense when the President so directs,
will be responsible for coordinating and
tasking national foreign intelligence col-
lection programs.
-The National Foreign Intelligence
Board, which includes the members of the
Intelligence Community, is an advisory
body to the DCI on all national intelli-
gence activities and the budget.
3. Our intelligence agencies have a crit-
ical role to play in collecting and analyz-
ing information important to our national
security interests and, on occasion, acting
in direct support of major foreign policy
objectives. It is equally important, how-
ever, that the methods employed by these
agencies meet constitutional standards
protecting the privacy and civil liberties
of U.S. persons and are in full compliance
with the law.
To accomplish this objective a major
section of the Executive order is devoted
entirely to setting forth detailed restric-
activities in support of foreign policy
tions on intelligence collection, covert
objectives, experimentation, contracting,
assistance to law enforcement authorities,
personnel assigned to other agencies, indi-
dissemination and storage of information,
rect participation in prohibited activities,
and a prohibition on assassinations. The
FBI's intelligence activities no longer have
a blanket exception to these restrictions.
At the heart of the restriction process
is a greatly enhanced role for the Attorney
General, as the Nation's top legal officer,
to establish and approve procedures to
regulate the conduct of the most sensi-
tive intelligence activities. These detailed
procedures, which will be made available
to the congressional oversight committees,
will ensure compliance with the law, pro-
tect constitutional rights and privacy, and
ensure that any intelligence activity with-
215
