Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 19, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Representatives of the Hispanic
Media. May 12, 1978
think if the Mideast arms sales proposal is
rejected, it would be a terrible blow to
President Sadat in his own country and
to our relationships with him.
And as you know, both I and my
The President. Hi, everybody. Thank predecessors here on a bipartisan basis
you very much.
Ordinarily, I start out my meeting with
the editors from around the country by
emphasizing the most important things
that we are addressing at the current
moment, just to illustrate what a Presi-
dent does, and then I'll spend all the time
that we have available answering your
questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
The most important issue to me right
now and for the next few days, by far, is
the Middle East arms sales question.
We've got, I think, the interest of our own
Nation at stake. As you know, one of the
most important issues involved in the
Mideast arms sales is what will happen to
our relationship with President Sadat.
He has taken a worldwide, preeminent
stand in searching for peace in the Mid-
dle East, at great danger to himself politi-
cally. He's separated himself from a de-
pendence on the Soviet Union concerning
weapons sales to defend Egypt-not
against Israel, in particular, but against
some of his African neighbors. And I
have a longstanding commitment to the
Saudi Arabians and to the Israelis for this
relatively modest arms sales package.
by President Ford and Secretary Kissinger
The Saudis had a choice given to them
on what type of plane they wanted. They
chose the more defensive configuration on
the F-15 and the more defensive weapon,
which is the F-15, compared to the F-16,
primarily an offensive plane.
We consider this a very important is-
sue. I think it's in Israel's best interest to
have us be trusted and have friendship
with the moderate Arab leaders. We don't
want to drive them away from us, to have
to turn to some other source of supply for
legitimate defensive capability.
My commitment to reduce on an an-
nual basis our total conventional arms
sales will be carried out. And we've ini-
tiated this past few days, for the first
time, direct bilateral negotiations with
the Soviet Union, trying to bring them
into harmony with us in cutting down on
the total quantity of conventional weapons
sold around the world.
We've got many other problems that
we are addressing now. I'd say the most
901
