Apr. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
member of the President's Commission
on White House Fellowships. She replaces
Julia V. Taft, who has resigned.
Ramsay, 35, is deputy secretary of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts and
chairman of the White House Fellows
Association. She was a White House
Fellow in 1972-73.
THE PRESIDENT. We're making some
progress, I think.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:50 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Earlier in the day, the House of Repre-
sentatives had failed to approve the conference
report on H.R. 6782 by a vote of 268 to 150.
Emergency Agricultural
Legislation
Remarks on House of Representatives Action
on H.R. 6782. April 12, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. As President, I'm very
happy to hear that the House of Repre-
sentatives has defeated by a strong major-
ity the agriculture bill conference report.
This is good for the farmers of the United
States and also very good for the
consumers.
This bill would have damaged very
severely our Nation's export markets. It
would have been a heavy blow against
the livestock producers of this country.
It would have been almost impossible to
administer and would have added $6
billion to the Federal budget and would
have put us in the double-digit inflation
category in food prices.
So, the courageous action that the
House has taken this afternoon is an en-
couraging sign that the Congress has
joined in with me and will cooperate in
holding down the inflation that has been
of such great concern to all of us.
This is good for our farm policy. It's
good in holding down inflation. It's a very
encouraging sign of cooperation between
the Congress and the White House in
dealing with the Nation's very important
problems.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Anything on energy?
Visit of President Ceausescu
of Romania
Toasts at the State Dinner. April 12, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. I think it's the guests
that we have, but I believe the Strolling
Strings sounded better tonight than any
time I've ever heard them, and I want to
thank you for bringing out the best in
them. I thought it was just very
wonderful.
How many of you here either came
from a foreign country to our Nation or
had your parents or grandparents come
from a foreign country? Raise your hand,
if you would.
Mr. President, you can see more than
half. It's obviously more than half of the
people here who have come to the United
States from a foreign country, most of
you from Europe. And I think this in it-
self demonstrates vividly to our distin-
guished guest how close the ties are be-
tween our Nation and his and those na-
tions that are neighbors of his.
We are indeed honored to have all of
you here tonight, and particularly
honored to have President Ceausescu and
his wife, Elena, and the distinguished
ministers of his government come to visit
the White House, the First Family of our
country, and the people of the United
738
