Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 23
Thank you again very much, and con- ministering Federal personnel matters ex-
gratulations from all of us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Alan K.
Campbell is Chairman of the U.S. Civil Serv-
ice Commission.
Federal Civil Service
Reorganization
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1978.
May 23, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
On March 2nd I sent to Congress a
Civil Service Reform proposal to enable
the Federal government to improve its
service to the American people.
Today I am submitting another part
of my comprehensive proposal to reform
the Federal personnel management sys-
tem through Reorganization Plan No. 2 of
1978. The plan will reorganize the Civil
Service Commission and thereby create
new institutions to increase the effective-
ness of management and strengthen the
protection of employee rights.
The Civil Service Commission has ac-
quired inherently conflicting responsi-
bilities: to help manage the Federal
Government and to protect the rights of
Federal employees. It has done neither
job well. The Plan would separate the
two functions.
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
The positive personnel management
tasks of the government—such as training,
productivity programs, examinations, and
pay and benefits administration-would
be the responsibility of an Office of Per-
sonnel Management. Its Director, ap-
pointed by the President and confirmed by
the Senate, would be responsible for ad-
cept for Presidential appointments. The
Director would be the government's prin-
cipal representative in Federal labor rela-
tions matters.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
The adjudication and prosecution re-
sponsibilities of the Civil Service Com-
mission will be performed by the Merit
Systems Protection Board. The Board will
be headed by a bipartisan panel of three
members appointed to six-year, staggered
terms. This Board would be the first in-
dependent and institutionally impartial
Federal agency solely for the protection
of Federal employees.
The Plan will create, within the Board,
a Special Counsel to investigate and prose-
cute political abuses and merit system vio-
lations. Under the civil service reform
legislation now being considered by the
Congress, the Counsel would have power
to investigate and prevent reprisals against
employees who report illegal acts—the so-
called "whistleblowers." The Counsel
would be appointed by the President and
confirmed by the Senate.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
An Executive Order now vests existing
labor-management relations in a part-
time Federal Labor-Relations Council,
comprised of three top government man-
agers; other important functions are as-
signed to the Assistant Secretary of Labor
for Labor-Management Relations. This
arrangement is defective because the
Council members are part-time, they
come exclusively from the ranks of man-
agement and their jurisdiction is
fragmented.
The Plan I submit today would con-
solidate the central policy-making func-
tions in labor-management relations now
divided between the Council and the As-
sistant Secretary into one Federal Labor
953
