Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The aircraft sales to Israel are a reflec-
tion of our strong and unshakeable com-
mitment to the security of Israel. The
American people fully understand that
our commitment to Israel's survival and
security is total, unequivocal, and firmly
fixed in our national policy.
The long-term interests of Israel are
served by the proposed sales to Egypt and
Saudi Arabia. It is in Israel's interest to
encourage the forces of moderation in the
Middle East, and to promote their close
relationship with the United States. It
would not serve Israel's interest if we were
to fail to keep bi-partisan commitments,
made by the prior Administration as well
as by mine, to provide aircraft for the de-
fense of Saudi Arabia. It would be against
Israel's interest if moderate nations are
brushed aside by the United States, open-
ing vast possibilities for the intrusion of
hostile influences.
In the end, the national interest of the
United States is the issue. On the basis
of the most careful and serious analysis
of all factors, I am convinced that the
proposed sales will enhance U.S. national
objectives, contribute to our national se-
curity, and promote peace in the Middle
East.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to each Member of the Senate;
Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House
of Representatives; and Clement J. Zablocki,
chairman, and William S. Broomfield, ranking
minority member, House Committee on Inter-
national Relations.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
May 8
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-the Cabinet;
-Mrs. Marcelyn Makela and Dr. Phil-
lip Itkoff, Multiple Sclerosis Mother
and Father of the Year.
The President transmitted to Congress
the first annual report on the administra-
tion of the National Sickle Cell Anemia,
Cooley's Anemia, Tay-Sachs, and Genetic
Diseases Act.
May 9
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of
Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jor-
dan, Assistant to the President, and
Dr. Brzezinski;
-Alan K. Campbell, Chairman of the
U.S. Civil Service Commission, and
Senators Abraham Ribicoff of Con-
necticut, Jacob K. Javits of New
York, Charles H. Percy of Illinois,
and James R. Sasser of Tennessee;
-James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of
the Office of Management and
Budget.
The President attended a portion of the
breakfast held in the State Dining Room
at the White House for Secretary of Labor
F. Ray Marshall, Members of Congress,
and officers and members of national
labor organizations.
The President hosted a reception for
the Democratic National Committee
Executive Group in the East Garden at
the White House.
897
