Jan. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
look favorably on it, but I can't promise
because they haven't asked me, and I hate
to just put them on the spot.
But I and several of the members of the
Cabinet-we probably would refrain
refrain
from political involvement by the Secre-
tary of State or Defense or Treasury, but
other members of the Cabinet, on the
weekends and so forth, would probably
help the candidates. And there are no
people in the Congress who have been
more helpful to me, say, for instance, than
Brademas has.
NUCLEAR-POWERED SATELLITES
Q. Mr. President, now that the reactor
from the Soviet satellite has been found
in Canada and found to be highly radio-
active, what is your administration plan-
ning to do to prevent such mishaps, satel-
lite mishaps, from occurring again, and
also, what are your plans for stopping
nuclear proliferation in space?
The President. I had breakfast this
morning with Secretary Vance and Dr.
Brzezinski, and this is one of the subjects
that we discussed.
As you know, we have a longstanding
treaty with the Soviet Union preventing
any atomic explosions in space. But we
were guilty of that a long time ago.
I think it's time to reexamine that ques-
tion. I believe that this recent incident
with the Soviet satellite has shown that we
don't have an adequate, guaranteed safety
requirement on nuclear fuel in space.
This particular satellite and all those
that we've ever launched-I think the
first one we put up using nuclear power
was in 1965-they have what's called a
subcritical mass—there's not enough
radioactivity there to cause an explosion
under any circumstances. And when the
satellite is first launched, it's relatively
clean; you could get probably close to it
without having radiation. The longer it
burns, the more byproducts are made and
the more radioactive they become.
This particular satellite was designed,
as are most of them, to be elevated into
a higher orbit when it had served its pur-
pose. And when the Soviets attempted to
elevate it into a higher orbit, which would
have kept it in space for a thousand years
or more, some mechanism failed—I don't
know the details of it. But I think that we
now are in the process of deciding what
we can do to minimize this danger from
space.
One possibility would be to design such
a nuclear powerplant, which is very small,
so that it would surely burn completely
as it came down through space itself by
increasing the drag of friction, and so
forth.
Another one would be to have stand-
by mechanisms, so that if the first one
failed to eject it into outer orbit, another
standby would be required. This is some-
thing that we have not yet gone into in
any definitive way.
We have a much higher reliance, as
you may know, on solar panel power sup-
plies, and we do not rely on the atomic
power supplies as much. But you have a
good question. It's something that we
have not yet addressed with the Soviets,
but I'm sure it's something that we will
address.
CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT
Q. As a resident of the submarine cap-
ital of the world, where you at one time
spent a couple of years-I'm wondering
if you continue some type of a relation-
ship with Rickover, if you will have gotten
involved or had any conversations with
him concerning General Dynamics Elec-
tric Boat Division, which has a more than
a half a million dollar-half a billion dol-
lar claim they're trying to settle with the
238
