June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mation, the Soil Conservation Service and
the Tennessee Valley Authority, where
annual water program budgets total ap-
proximately $3.75 billion. These agencies
perform the Federal government's water
resource development programs. In addi-
tion, a number of Federal agencies with
water-related responsibilities will be af-
fected by this water policy.
I am charging Secretary Andrus with
the lead responsibility to see that these
initiatives are carried out promptly and
fully. With the assistance of the Office of
Management and Budget and the Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality, he will be
responsible for working with the other
Federal agencies, the Congress, State and
local governments and the public to as-
sure proper implementation of this policy
and to make appropriate recommenda-
tions for reform in the future.
SPECIFIC INITIATIVES IMPROVING FEDERAL
WATER RESOURCE PROGRAMS
The Federal government has played a
vital role in developing the water re-
sources of the United States. It is essential
that Federal water programs be updated
and better coordinated if they are to con-
tinue to serve the nation in the best way
possible. The reforms I am proposing are
designed to modernize and improve the
coordination of federal water programs.
In addition, in a few days, I will also be
sending to the Congress a Budget amend-
ment proposing funding for a number of
new water project construction and plan-
ning starts. These projects meet the cri-
teria I am announcing today. This is the
first time the Executive Branch has pro-
posed new water project starts since Fiscal
Year 1975, four years ago.
The actions I am taking include:
• A directive to the Water Resources
Council to improve the implementation
of the Principles and Standards govern-
ing the planning of Federal water proj-
ects. The basic planning objectives of the
Principles and Standards—national eco-
nomic development and environmental
quality should be retained and given
equal emphasis. In addition, the imple-
mentation of the Principles and Stand-
ards should be improved by:
-adding water conservation as a spe-
cific component of both the economic
and environmental objectives;
-requiring the explicit formulation
and consideration of a primarily non-
structural plan as one alternative
whenever structural water projects
or programs are planned;
-instituting consistent, specific proce-
dures for calculating benefits and
costs in compliance with the Princi-
ples and Standards and other appli-
cable planning and evaluation re-
quirements. Benefit-cost analyses
have not been uniformly applied by
Federal agencies, and in some cases
benefits have been improperly rec-
ognized, "double-counted" or in-
cluded when inconsistent with fed-
eral policy or sound economic ration-
ale. I am directing the Water Re-
sources Council to prepare within 12
months a manual which ensures that
benefits and costs are calculated using
the best techniques and provides for
consistent application of the Princi-
ples and Standards and other re-
quirements;
-ensuring that water projects have
been planned in accordance with the
Principles and Standards and other
planning requirements by creating,
by Executive Order, a project review
function located in the Water Re-
sources Council. A professional staff
will ensure an impartial review of
pre-construction project plans for
their consistency with established
planning and benefit-cost analysis
1046
