Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 28
those few years since we first began to see
the damage we were doing to our sur-
roundings. Not long ago, environmental
awareness was frequently seen as an emo-
tional excess and an economic disaster.
But now, concern for the integrity of our
natural systems has become an accepted
criterion for judging our actions.
We have not yet learned, of course, to
balance all our environmental objectives
against the other social goals that must
concern us. But it is now clear that the
American people believe our needs for
food, for shelter, and for the necessities as
well as the amenities of civilization, can
be met without continuing the degrada-
tion of our planet. It is clear that they
wish, as Congress stated in the National
Environmental Policy Act, "to create and
maintain conditions under which man
and nature can exist in productive har-
mony, and fulfill the social, economic, and
other requirements of present and future
generations of Americans."
In less than a year, this Administration
and this Congress have substantially ad-
vanced the American search for "produc-
tive harmony" with our earth. I pledge to
continue this search with you.
The White House,
February 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Environmental
Quality: The Eighth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality-December
1977" (Government Printing Office, 445
pages).
National Governors' Conference
Remarks at a White House Reception for
Governors Attending the Mid-Winter
Conference. February 28, 1978
This is an evening for hospitality and
friendship, for dancing and conversation,
and not for speeches. And I wanted to
say on behalf of myself and Rosalynn and
Fritz and Joan [Mondale], the members
of our Cabinet and staff, that we're de-
lighted to have all of you come to the
White House to be our guests here. It's
your home as well as ours.
This is a home that's been occupied by
every President since George Washington,
and there's been great history made and
great entertainment, and great leaders
have occupied this beautiful room here
on the east side of the White House.
When I was in the State senate, I al-
ways felt that I could go to the Governor
of my State and get all the answers to my
problems. When I got to be Governor, I
felt that I could come and see the Presi-
dent and I could get all the answers to
my problems. And now that I'm Presi-
dent, I feel like I can go back to the Gov-
ernors. [Laughter]
I think your Mid-Winter Conference
has been superb. I've had reports from
my own staff, Jack Watson, and also our
Cabinet members, some of whom are here
tonight. I think it's been a hard-working,
dedicated group, and the partnership that
exists between us, as Fritz pointed out to
you today, is one that's very valuable to
us here in Washington.
So, I'd like for you tonight just to get to
know us better, the new Governors of
you; sympathize with me, the ones that
were Governors when I was. And I give
my condolences to the ones who are visit-
ing the White House for the last time as
Governors.
But I would like to say now that we
have a wonderful store ahead of us of
superb entertainment. This past Sunday
afternoon we had a historical performance
on this platform by Vladimir Horowitz,
perhaps the greatest, certainly one of the
greatest pianists who ever lived. And to-
night we have wonderful entertainment
in store for us again. Our country has pro-
duced great musicians, and one of the
431
