Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 8
ties with local and regional participation.
And it's a system that has well stood the
test of time.
For 65 years, it's served through good
times and bad times and has shown its
ability to respond to a changing world and
a changing America. We've seen unprece-
dented changes in technology, social, eco-
nomic development, and the Federal Re-
serve has been able to adapt and respond
to provide for the needs of a growing
America.
The Federal Reserve System has also
had remarkable leadership. Since the pres-
ent organization was established in the
thirties, there have been four Chairmen
of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, and two of them are with
us here now.
William McChesney Martin, who was
Chairman for a longer period than any
other Chairman, has a record that speaks
for itself and is a beacon of excellence.
And Arthur Burns, well, he's a legend
in his own time. And I cannot say any
more gracious words than the President
has already said, but I'd like to second
them and third them and applaud them,
because you have been a great fighter
against inflation. Your integrity, your in-
tellect, your talents are known, and you
are well loved and respected throughout
the world.
I never expected to be a central banker,
but when the President invited me to do
so, the warm response that Arthur Burns
gave and the support and help he's given
me is more than a reward in itself. It's
been a great experience for me and one
which I shall always cherish.
Well, it's obvious that I've had giants
as predecessors, and so I face a very de-
manding standard in trying to carry out
the duties of this great institution. I can
tell you that I will do my best to make a
contribution to the best of my ability.
We do, Mr. President, I believe, have
the ability to pledge to you that the entire
Federal Reserve family will devote itself
to the most professional conduct of its
affairs, so that it can contribute to our
national goals of growth and price sta-
bility.
It's going to be difficult. We face many
problems. And it will take time. And it
will take some self-discipline for all of us
to do our part in moderation and in con-
tributing individually to the solution.
On the other hand, the Federal Reserve
has enormous resources to call upon to
carry out its programs. In the first place,
it has in the family of the Federal Reserve
dedicated and competent men and women
who are devoted to professionalism. It
has an able Board of Governors. It has
men of high quality as Presidents of the
Reserve banks. And those human re-
sources are very important.
The Federal Reserve also has the re-
source of adaptability. It's shown itself to
be a living institution that can change
and can respond and can innovate, and
that will be a strength.
It also operates in an American system
that has shown itself to have the strength
of flexibility. In the last 10 years, we've
been impacted by many substantial and
adverse forces that have had great conse-
quences in our economy of the United
States and the world economies. And yet,
how remarkably our system has responded
and shown its resilience and capacity to
absorb and to self-correct, and it's on that
process now.
We also have the strength of national
leadership which, represented by Presi-
dent Carter, is taking on the responsibility
to reestablish the confidence of the Amer-
ican public in their public institutions.
And finally, we have the greatest re-
source of all, the boundless resource of the
American people.
483
