Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We have sought to promote responsible
arms control efforts and to reduce com-
petition in arms. Recognizing that a strong
defense is the foundation of our security,
we have made certain that our defense
spending will be sufficient and used to
maximum effect.
Arms Control
The fundamental purposes of our arms
limitations efforts are to promote our own
national security and to strengthen inter-
national stability, thereby enhancing the
prospects for peace everywhere.
We are trying to move the Strategic
Arms Limitation Talks toward more am-
bitious objectives. We want to reduce, not
just contain, the competition in the num-
ber of strategic weapons possessed by the
United States and the Soviet Union, and
to limit qualitative improvements in
weapons which merely raise the risks to
all of us. Precisely because of our deter-
mination to obtain both of these objectives
negotiations have been difficult and pro-
longed. However, I am confident that the
agreement that we will present to the
Congress will meet them.
We have also made solid progress to-
ward an objective that the United States
has pursued for many years: a compre-
hensive treaty banning all nuclear explo-
sions. This treaty will be open to all na-
tions of the world. It will be a major step
toward reduced reliance on these weap-
ons and toward halting their further
spread in the world.
-At the same time we are seeking
arms limitations agreements with the
Soviet Union that will contribute to se-
curity and stability in various regions of
the world. In Europe we and our NATO
Allies are seeking a mutual and balanced
force reductions agreement that will
achieve greater stability and balance at
lower levels of forces. In the Indian
Ocean, where neither we nor the Soviet
Union has yet deployed military power on
a large scale, we are working for an
agreement to prevent a major military
competition.
-For the first time, we have begun to
negotiate with the Soviet Union the out-
lines of a treaty banning chemical
warfare.
-An essential element of American
security is the maintenance of stability in
the Western Pacific, where the United
States plays a major role in maintaining a
balance of power. We are seeking to re-
adjust our military presence in Korea by
reducing our ground forces on the Penin-
sula and undertaking compensatory
measures to ensure that an adequate bal-
ance of forces remain. We are talking
with the Filipino government about the
future of our military bases there.
-We are continuing the process of nor-
malization of our relations with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China within the frame-
work of the Shanghai Communique.
-In the last year, we have sought to
halt the worldwide spread of nuclear
weapons capacity. Nearly 40 nations have
joined with us in an effort to find nuclear
power sources that cannot be readily used
for building nuclear weapons.
Defense Posture/Budget
The defense budget that I am recom-
mending to Congress will fulfill our most
pressing defense needs. I am requesting
increases in defense spending that more
than compensate for inflation. They are
needed to maintain an adequate military
balance in the face of continued Soviet
military efforts.
-As we negotiate with the Soviets over
strategic arms, we are continuing to pre-
serve essential equivalence in strategic nu-
122
