Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mendations for judges. Now, since I've
been in office, we have set up selection
boards for all circuit judges. And I think
in 15 States the Senators-which is a new
development-have now set up selection
boards to recommend highly qualified dis-
trict judges. But I agree with you that
this is a move that we should make.
I think you will notice that when we
have made selections for, say, circuit
judges or when we've made two selections
now for Director of the FBI, there were
Republicans involved, I think, in both
cases for the FBI.
Q. But how about setting up an inde-
pendent blue ribbon committee that
would monitor firings, as well as appoint-
ments, deciding each case on the merits,
not on politics?
THE PRESIDENT. The Attorney General
in the speech in May, and preceding that
in March, advocated that this general pro-
cedure be followed. I don't remember the
exact text of that speech. But I believe in
every instance when the results have been
made known that there has been no criti-
cism of the person chosen. In some in-
stances, U.S. Senators have specifically
come forward and advocated that a Re-
publican U.S. attorney be kept in office.
I remember once in particular in New
York that Pat Moynihan said to keep the
Republicans in office, and we've done so.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, on the Middle East,
do you have a clear idea now from Prime
Minister Begin as to whether or not he
will authorize new settlements in the West
Bank and in the Sinai, and do you believe
that Israel over a period of time ought to
phase out those settlements in return for
real peace?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've covered
this many times. Our position on settle-
ments in the occupied territory has been
that they are illegal, that they are an ob-
stacle to peace. When Prime Minister
Begin was over here and when Foreign
Minister Dayan was here, this question
arose. And my understanding of their
commitment was that no new settlements
would be authorized by the government,
that any increase in settlers would be an
expansion of existing settlements as much
as possible within the aegis of the military.
The Geneva conference agreement is
that civilians should not go in to settle
permanently in occupied territories. I
think the Israeli Government has not au-
thorized the Shilo settlement other than as
an archeological exploration project. And
I've not yet heard from Prime Minister
Begin directly, but I have had informa-
tion that this is a policy of the Israeli
Government, that this is not an author-
ized settlement.
U.S. ATTORNEY MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, just to sort of com-
plete the record on that Marston case.
On the morning of January 12, according
to your statement at the Justice Depart-
ment, you learned that a Member of Con-
gress was of investigative interest to either
the Justice Department or the U.S. attor-
ney. Later that day at your news con-
ference, you said, "As far as any investiga-
tion of Members of Congress, however,
I'm not familiar with that at all, and it
was never mentioned to me." Do you see
any conflict there?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I think if
you read the question to which I referred,
it's obviously related to whether or not I
had known anything about any investiga-
tion in November. And the answer was
no, no discussion ever had been made.
The only inkling I had at all that Mr. Eil-
berg was involved with an investigation
was that Frank Moore mentioned, just as
I was leaving my office to come over for
the press conference, that his name had
246
