Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
with HUD, EDA or the Small Business
Administration.
Role of Private Financial Institutions
An effective urban strategy must in-
volve private financial institutions. I am
asking the independent financial regu-
latory agencies to develop appropriate
actions, consistent with safe, sound and
prudent lending practices, to encourage
financial institutions to play a greater
role in meeting the credit needs of their
communities.
First, I am requesting that financial
regulatory agencies determine what fur-
ther actions are necessary to halt the
practice of redlining—the refusal to ex-
tend credit without a sound economic
justification. I will encourage those agen-
cies to develop strong, consistent and ef-
fective regulations to implement the
Community Reinvestment Act.
Second, I propose the creation of an
Institute for Community Investment, un-
der the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
The Institute will bring together ap-
praisers, realtors, lenders, building and
insurance companies to develop a consist-
ent approach toward urban lending and
to train urban lending specialists.
Third, I propose a pilot program to
create Neighborhood Commercial Rein-
vestment Centers under the Comptroller
of the Currency. This proposal is an
adaptation of the highly successful Urban
Reinvestment Task Force housing credit
concept to the commercial credit area.
Neighborhood Commercial Reinvestment
Centers will be local organizations, com-
prised of merchants and neighborhood
residents, local government officials, and
commercial banks which will provide
business credit in urban neighborhoods.
SBA, EDA, and HUD will work with the
financial regulatory agencies to revitalize
specific commercial areas.
Finally, I have asked the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to
chair an interagency task force to evaluate
the availability of credit in urban areas
and recommend appropriate further ac-
tion. I have asked the task force to ex-
amine and make recommendations with
respect to the following areas:
• The availability of mortgage and
commercial credit in urban areas, and the
impacts of the activities of Federal agen-
cies on such credit;
Existing mortgage insurance, casu-
alty insurance and business credit insur-
ance programs;
• The full range of urban credit and
insurance risk reduction techniques.
III. FISCAL ASSISTANCE
While the fiscal condition of many
State and local governments has improved
dramatically over the last three years,
many cities and communities still are ex-
periencing severe problems. These cities
and communities require fiscal assistance
from the Federal government, if they are
to avoid severe service cutbacks or tax in-
creases.
Supplemental Fiscal Assistance
Cities and communities currently re-
ceive fiscal assistance through the Anti-
Recession Fiscal Assistance Act (ARFA),
which expires on September 30, 1978.
This program has been an effective tool
for helping States and local governments
withstand the fiscal impact of high unem-
ployment.
Current unemployment projections,
however, suggest that even if the ARFA
program were extended in its current
form, it would phase out by mid-FY 1979,
when unemployment is expected to drop
below six percent. If the program is per-
mitted to phase out, many cities and com-
munities will experience severe fiscal
strain.
589
