Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 29
vent any shift in their attitude toward an
offensive design against Israel. I think that
this is good insurance that ought to be
maintained.
NAVY BUDGET
area
Q. Mr. President, Edward Fike, San
Diego Union. You made a heartening
speech in Wake Forest warning the Soviet
Union against the continued buildup of
armaments, and then you came back to
Washington and your first official act was
to announce a drastic slash in the Navy
building program. I'm from an
which is very concerned about that. And
we now learn that several naval bases
around the country are scheduled to be
closed, including, possibly the Marine
Corps training facility in San Diego. How
can we reconcile this reduction in the
Navy with a continued Soviet naval build-
up throughout the world?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
I used to live in San Diego and was on a
submarine there, and I'm familiar with
the interest of your neighbors in the Navy
strength.
The makeup of the defense budget is
primarily determined by submission from
the Joint Chiefs and the Secretary of De-
fense and others to me through the Office
of Management and Budget, and the
portion of the total defense budget that
is spent within the Navy circle is also de-
termined by them. I make very slight
modifications, although I study the issues.
When this proposal was made to me by
Secretary of Defense Brown and by Gra-
ham Claytor, who came over to discuss
it, the only change I made in their pro-
posal was to add one submarine, Trident
submarine, to their proposal. I think the
Navy's portion of the budget is between
35 and 40 percent, about what it always
has been. The size of the defense budget
has been increased steadily since I've been
in office. We added about 3 percent in
total defense expenditures in this pro-
posal for next year, above and beyond
inflationary trends.
And I think that the Navy budget is a
well-balanced budget. The argument that
is going on in the Congress is whether we
have a relatively few, highly expensive,
large and nuclear-powered ships on the
one hand, or a wider number, larger num-
ber of relatively inexpensive ships that
are smaller and conventionally powered
on the other hand. All the ships, as you
know, are expensive.
But I don't have any apology to make
for it. I think within the constraints of
the overall budget-I think our deficit is
excessive now-and the portion of the
total budget that is allotted to defense ex-
penditures, the portion of the defense
budget that's allotted to the Navy, that it
is a well-balanced proposal.
And to repeat myself once, I did not
modify the recommendation of the Secre-
tary of Defense, except to add one Tri-
dent submarine. I didn't cut down the
recommendation that came to me from
the Defense Department.
ENERGY SHORTAGE
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Hammes
from St. Maries, Idaho. A spokesman for
a previous administration said, "Don't
pay any attention to what we say, but
watch what we do." The people are see-
ing Government officials and high mili-
tary figures using gas-guzzling auto-
mobiles, car races around the country
every weekend, and other uses of petro-
leum, and they're thinking there really
isn't a petroleum shortage. Can we some-
how resolve this dichotomy?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to answer
that question. My fear is that the dichot-
omy to which you refer will be resolved
only when there is a tangible evidence of
energy shortage brought about by suffer-
ing or deprivation of the American people
809
