Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
that Saudi Arabia has never had any
active aggression against Israel. Saudi
Arabia is our ally and friend. Egypt is our
ally and friend. Israel is our ally and
friend.
To maintain security in that region is
important. Egypt has other threats against
its security. The Soviets are shipping mas-
sive quantities of weapons into the Middle
Eastern area now, into the Red Sea
area—Ethiopia, into Syria, Iraq, Libya—
and we cannot abandon our own friends.
So, I don't think that it's wrong at all to
ensure stability or the right to defend
themselves in a region with arms sales.
We are continuing multinational nego-
tiations with other sellers of weapons to
get them to join with us in a constant
step-by-step, year-by-year reduction in
total arms sales. If they do, I think the
world will be much more peaceful in the
future.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-fifth news
conference began at 3:30 p.m. in the Ball-
room at the Cranston Hilton Hotel. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Providence, Rhode Island
Remarks at a Reception for Senator
Claiborne Pell. February 17, 1978
Senator Pell and Governor Joe Garrahy,
distinguished members of the State house,
senate-I don't know if the Congressmen
are here or not. Oh, good, there they are.
[Laughter] Congressman Beard and Con-
gressman St Germain, all the wonderful
people from the State of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations, I'm glad to be
here.
Looking at your fine Governor, your
Members of the Congress, your U.S. Sen-
ator, and the results of the general elec-
tion in 1976, I can tell that you have ex-
cellent political judgment. I had a slight
doubt there for a few days at the time of
the Democratic primary, but it was soon
alleviated completely. [Laughter]
I am very proud to be here, to visit with
my friends, to let you know of my deep
interest as President of the United States
in you and in your State, to express my
admiration for what you have done during
the last few days in setting an example for
the Nation of courage and tenacity and of
cooperation and good will under very
adverse circumstances. I think you've
demonstrated what's made our country
great, and I'm very proud of you.
You may not have thought about it be-
fore, but this is an election year. [Laugh-
ter] And I would like to say a few words
this afternoon about a special friend of
mine, Senator Claiborne Pell. He's a close
friend and a partner of mine, but he has,
as you well know, a mind of his own. He
knows your State and he cares about you.
He has had a remarkable record even be-
fore he went to the United States Senate.
And since then his experience has given
him a profound knowledge of our Nation,
both in domestic affairs and also in for-
eign affairs. He had perhaps more experi-
ence in the diplomatic service than almost
any Member who's ever served in the Sen-
ate. And as a member of the Foreign
Relations Committee, he's grown day by
day.
He's a good adviser for the Secretary of
State. He's a good counselor for other
members of the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee. And he's a good adviser for the
President as well.
I think you all know that he's the head
of the Subcommittee on Arms Control.
And this year, we hope and we pray that
we will have a successful conclusion to the
339
