Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 5
Laboratory, and from 1961 to 1965, he
served in the Space Technology Office of
the Director of Defense Research and
Engineering. From 1965 to 1973, he was
assigned to the Office of the Secretary of
the Air Force, serving at the Directorate
of Special Projects in Los Angeles and
at the Pentagon. In 1973 he became Di-
rector, National Security Agency/Chief,
Central Security Service at Fort Meade,
Md. In August 1977 he became Com-
mander of the Air Force Systems Com-
mand at Andrews Air Force Base. Since
earlier this year he has been Vice Chief
of Staff of the Air Force.
Hayward was born May 3, 1924, in
Glendale, Calif. He entered the U.S.
Naval Academy in 1943 and graduated
in 1947 as an ensign. He has served as a
pilot and as commanding officer of a
fighter squadron. He has also served as
Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. Graf-
fias and the U.S.S. American. From 1970
to 1971, he was Commander of the
Hawaiian Sea Frontier and Comman-
dant of the 14th Naval District. From
1971 to 1973, he was Director of the Of-
fice of Program Appraisal in the Office of
the Secretary of the Navy and from 1973
to 1975, he was Director of Navy Pro-
gram Planning in the Office of the Chief
of Naval Operations. From 1975 to 1976,
he was Commander of the Seventh Fleet.
Since 1976 he has been Commander in
Chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet.
Communications Workers
of America
Remarks at a White House Reception.
April 5, 1978
First of all, let me say that I feel like
I'm among friends and among partners.
I've had this feeling ever since I have
been
been involved in politics. And I had it
strengthened in 1975, when I was with
you in San Diego at your convention. A
lot of you were there. It was when I was
lonely and searching for friends. And I
reached out my hand and you took it, and
you helped me in Florida and all the suc-
ceeding primaries. I won't forget Texas.
You helped me during the general elec-
tion, and I particularly thank you, since I
have been President and living in this
house, that you've helped me even more
as the leader of our country.
On behalf of myself and Rosalynn, our
entire family, I want you to know that
you're welcome, you're part of our family,
and you belong here as much as we do.
Thank you for coming this afternoon.
We also share something else. You were
born in October; so was I. You were born
we're not exactly the same on everything.
40 years ago. Well-[laughter]—well,
But I know that this last year, because you
are a part of our Nation which is enlight-
ened and progressive and concerned
about the essence of our country, you
represent democratic principles in all
their finest aspects. You are respected and
trusted throughout the country in your
own local communities as an organiza-
tion, on Capitol Hill, and throughout
places where decisions are made.
This is a great tribute to you. Last year,
when I came into office in January, we
had almost a 9 percent, over 8 percent
unemployment rate. We had a 9, 10 per-
cent inflation rate. With your help and
with the help of the fine Democratic Con-
gress on the Hill, we were able to put into
law some very effective programs that
were able to cut down unemployment
much more than we had anticipated. We
created a net of 4.1 million new jobs in
the United States. It was a great achieve-
ment. You helped me with it. And I
would not have been able to get this bill
685
