Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
ability to help solve pressing national
problems in such areas as energy, en-
vironment, health, natural resources. I
am recommending a program of real
growth of scientific research and other
steps that will strengthen the Nation's
research centers and encourage a new
surge of technological innovation by
American industry. The budget increase
of 11% for basic research will lead to im-
proved opportunities for young scientists
and engineers, and upgraded scientific
equipment in the Nation's research cen-
ters. I am determined to maintain our
Nation's leadership role in science and
technology.
We will continue America's progress in
the field of space exploration with con-
tinued development of the space shuttle
system and procurement of four shuttle
orbiters for operations from both East
and West coasts, development of a space-
craft to study for the first time the polar
regions of the Sun, and increased outlays
for demonstrations of the practical appli-
cations of space-based systems and devel-
opment of space technology.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
A year ago I set five goals for United
States foreign policy in the late 1970s and
early 1980s: to reassert America's moral
leadership; to strengthen our traditional
ties with friends and allies; to work to-
ward a more just international system; to
promote regional reconciliation; and to
preserve peace through preparedness and
arms control. These goals continue to un-
derlie my agenda for 1978.
MORAL LEADERSHIP
During the past year, we have placed
American foreign policy on a new course
consistent with the values and highest
ideals of the American people. We are
trying to limit the worldwide sale of
arms; we are trying to prevent nuclear
explosives—and the ability to make
them from spreading to more countries;
we are building a new relationship with
the developing countries, and we are
promoting human rights throughout the
world.
Human Rights
Virtually everywhere, human rights
have become an important issue-espe-
cially in countries where they are system-
atically violated. There has been real
progress, and for that the United States
can take some credit.
We have taken the lead among West-
ern nations at the Belgrade Review Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. Working closely with our Allies,
and with neutral and non-aligned na-
tions, our delegation-led by Ambassador
ough review of implementation of the
Arthur Goldberg-has conducted a thor-
Helsinki Final Act, in all its aspects. We
have made clear the United States is
committed to the full implementation of
the Final Act in this and other areas. We
will seek a further Review Conference in
two years; meanwhile, we will press for
better implementation of the Helsinki
Final Act.
Non-Proliferation
We must not ignore the enormous
dangers posed by the unrestrained
spread of nuclear weapons technology.
We recognize the benefits of commercial
nuclear power, but we also must acknowl-
edge the risks. We believe that all coun-
tries can enjoy the benefits, while the risks
are minimized, by developing safer tech-
nologies and creating new institutions to
manage and safeguard all phases of the
nuclear fuel cycle. Meanwhile, we have
decided to postpone a premature commit-
117
