Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
We started out a year ago, inheriting
this important matter from my three pred-
ecessors. And at that time, obviously I
had to decide whether it was a good treaty
or not. I decided that it was a good
treaty-two treaties. And we began the
slow, laborious, difficult process of ac-
quainting the American people with the
facts and obviously, the Members of
the Congress. We've made good progress.
I think that the most recent poll results
from all the known sources show that a
plurality of Americans now favor the
treaties with the leadership amendments
on them.
I will be very glad when this vote's over.
That is on the neutrality treaty that takes
effect at the end of 1999. And then we'll
have another major and difficult vote on
the treaty to take place between now and
the end of this century. So, I feel hopeful,
but still somewhat in doubt.
level of government and among non-
governmental entities. We realize that in
the broad scope of things a relatively
small portion of any future budget within
a city's boundaries will come from the
Federal Government. The overwhelming
portion of it has got to come from private
enterprise, from local persons. Neighbor-
hood groups, volunteers, local authorities,
regional authorities, State authorities
have got to play a major role. And that
will be one of the thrusts.
Among the cities of our country, there's
over a $3 trillion investment just in build-
ings, factories, and homes, and we feel
that they ought to be preserved.
We have now analyzed all the pro-
grams, about 160 programs, to measure
their effectiveness in dealing with urban
problems. And it was a very stringent
analysis. We've also required for the first
time our major heads of department,
Q. You have any conversations with agency heads, to come together to share
Senator Bellmon?
both criticisms and some hope for the
future.
THE PRESIDENT. I have had conver-
sations with every Senator on the Hill.
[Laughter] Senator Bellmon is a states-
man-[laughter] and I have confidence
in his judgment.
URBAN POLICY
Q. I'm Sue Reisinger from the Dayton
Daily News. We understand you're going
to introduce your urban policy at the end
of this month. We would appreciate you
being as frank as possible about how
much money and what kind of programs
will be in that policy.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet, you
know, about the details. I met most of the
afternoon yesterday with the Secretary
of HUD and with my own advisers on
domestic policy and also economics, to
go over the general principles and policies
and the strategies for the urban policy.
We want to have as much as possible
authority and responsibility at the local
We'll probably phase out some pro-
grams. We are starting our analysis with
the first of last year to put together a
comprehensive approach to what the
urban problems were when I took office.
Some of the proposals have already been
introduced to Congress. Some have actu-
ally been passed by Congress. A few have
actually already been funded and now
are being implemented. But it'll be very
comprehensive, and I think it will result
in a great improvement in dealing with
urban problems.
But the exact additional budget above
and beyond what we've already done has
not yet been determined, but I will issue
the urban policy analysis by the end of
this month.
Also, we'll come out, I hope and ex-
pect, with a brochure that might be used
as kind of a textbook or handbook for
people who are interested, at all levels of
521
