Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing between them during the last year,
was a demonstration of their interest in
continuing their consultations on world
matters of importance to the two coun-
tries.
Upon ending his stay in Venezuela,
President and Mrs. Carter thanked Presi-
dent Pérez for the cordial hospitality of-
fered them and their official party by the
Venezuelan people and government.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique
was released at Caracas, Venezuela.
Brasília, Brazil
Remarks of President Carter and President
Ernesto Geisel at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 29, 1978
PRESIDENT GEISEL. Your Excellency,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica:
In the name of the Government and the
people of Brazil, I should like to express
my warmest words of welcome to Your
Excellency and to Mrs. Carter, as well as
to the members of your party, and wish
you a happy stay in Brazil.
Your Excellency's presence in our coun-
try well reflects the stage reached by the
traditional friendship that links Brazil and
the United States of America. I am happy,
therefore, that Your Excellency was able
to carry out your plans for travel. And I
must state that I understood perfectly
well the decision you had to take regard-
ing the postponement of the original date
foreseen for your visit.
Your Excellency has already been to
our country before taking on your heavy
responsibilities, and Mrs. Carter more re-
cently gave us the pleasure of her agree-
able company when she visited us last
year.
As it has happened before, Your Excel-
lency and Mrs. Carter will be welcomed as
friends by the Brazilians. The hospitality
with which we greet those who visit us
cordially will be with you during all the
time you are in our country. We will be
extremely satisfied if the present visit may
assist Your Excellency and Mrs. Carter in
forming a fair opinion about the Brazilian
reality.
Personally, I believe that our talks will
be rewarding and that they will allow for
a renewed trust in the relations between
our two countries.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you, Mr.
President, for your kind words of welcome.
This is my second visit to your beautiful
capital city of Brasília, and this time I am
pleased to bring not only my own personal
words of personal greeting but those of the
people of my country as well. And I come
to Brazil with a full realization that our
two nations share the responsibilities of
great world powers.
There are many things in our histories
that make us understand one another, that
have taught us both to treat the other with
friendship and respect. We both earned
our freedom from European colonial
powers, and in this century our soldiers
fought side by side in Europe during the
World Wars to bring peace and freedom
to others.
We have both expanded through our
great national frontiers which have pro-
vided our most difficult challenges and our
best opportunities, and we have applied
the determination and the talent of our
people to conquer them.
The frontier spirit truly has shaped the
attitudes of Brazil and of the United
States. We both built new capitals as acts
of faith in our own future-you, 18 years
ago here in the Sertao; our ancestors,
nearly 200 years ago along the Potomac
River.
We are both proud of the human diver-
sity of our national population, and we
"
626
