Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
Prime Minister Begin will be coming to
visit with me this coming week. I know
him very well. I've met with him twice
before. He is a very strong advocate, a
very dedicated advocate of the position of
the Israeli Government. He's a forceful
and outspoken person. And I'm sure after
our meeting, we will at least understand
each other better.
I hope we can move another step to-
ward peace. I had an equivalent oppor-
tunity this year to meet and to have long
discussions with President Sadat.
So, I would say that there's been a
great deal of progress made. Just looking
at the changes from the viewpoint of the
Israelis, we have now the major Arab
nation who has recognized Israel's right to
exist, right to exist in peace, right to exist
permanently, has offered the full defini-
tion of peace which I described earlier.
They have been meeting directly and per-
sonally, Begin and Sadat and their repre-
sentatives, which was not in prospect at
all a year ago.
There are still differences between
them—relatively minor differences in the
Sinai, more major, strategic kinds of dif-
ferences involving the Palestinian ques-
tion and the implementation of U.N. 242.
So we've got a long way to go.
It's a difficult question that's been one
of the most challenging, I guess, in the
last 30 years for the world, to bring about
peace in the Middle East. But I'm not
discouraged about it. We're going to stick
with it. And even though it takes a lot of
time and much abuse and much debate
and many differences expressed by all
public officials, I intend to stay with it.
And I believe the American people are
deeply committed to two things: One is
the security of Israel under any circum-
stances, and secondly, the achievement of
comprehensive peace.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with
the position of the coal operators as
stated in the latest contract on both the
issues of the right to strike and pension
benefits? And can you explain why or
why not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would rather
not single out any particular aspect of the
contract for my approbation or rejection.
There are issues of that kind that have
been in deep contention. The coal oper-
ators want to eliminate the possibility of
wildcat strikes and to increase produc-
tion. The coal miners want the security
of their retirement funds, and they want
to have continuation of health benefits
without contributing to the fund out of
their salaries. Those have been the major
items in contention. And I don't want to
comment on the degree of my approval
of them.
One item on which there has been gen-
eral and early agreement is the wage
package, and this, I think, would be a
basis for a resolution of the differences.
But I don't want to comment as a Presi-
dent on my approval or disapproval of
individual items.
Q. One followup: Do you think the
miners should have gone along with the
contract as it was last submitted?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was hoping
that they would. As you know, there have
been two contracts negotiated between
the mine leaders and the coal operators.
One was rejected by the bargaining coun-
cil. The other contract was approved by
the bargaining council-39 members, os-
tensibly representing all the miners
throughout the country--and rejected by
the membership.
But I was hoping that those contracts
would be accepted. I've never gotten in-
493
