Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
(c) Developing and monitoring guide-
lines consistent with this Order for the
maintenance of central records of coun-
terintelligence information;
(d) Submitting to the President an
overall annual assessment of the relative
threat to United States interests from in-
telligence and security services of foreign
powers and from international terrorist
activities, including an assessment of the
effectiveness of the United States counter-
intelligence activities; and
(e) Approving counterintelligence ac-
tivities which, under such standards as
may be established by the President, re-
quire SCC approval.
1-305. Required Membership. The
SCC shall discharge the responsibilities
assigned by sections 1-302 through 1-304
only after consideration in a meeting at
which all designated members are pres-
ent or, in unusual circumstances when
any such member is unavailable, when
a designated representative of the mem-
ber attends.
(b) The National Foreign Intelligence
Program budget;
(c) Interagency exchanges of foreign
intelligence information;
(d) Arrangements with foreign gov-
ernments on intelligence matters;
(e) The protection of intelligence
sources and methods;
(f) Activities of common concern; and
(g) Other matters referred to it by the
Director of Central Intelligence.
1-402. Membership. The NFIB shall
be chaired by the Director of Central In-
telligence and shall include other ap-
propriate officers of the CIA, the Office
of the Director of Central Intelligence,
the Department of State, the Department
of Defense, the Department of Justice,
the Department of the Treasury, the De-
partment of Energy, the Defense Intelli-
gence Agency, the offices within the De-
partment of Defense for reconnaissance
programs, the National Security Agency
and the FBI. A representative of the As-
sistant to the President for National Se-
1–306. Additional Duties. The SCC curity Affairs may attend meetings of the
shall also:
NFIB as an observer.
(a) Conduct an annual review of on-
going special activities and sensitive na-
tional foreign intelligence collection oper-
ations and report thereon to the NSC;
and
(b) Carry out such other coordination
and review activities as the President may
direct.
1-307. Appeals. Any member of the
SCC may appeal any decision to the Pres-
ident or the NSC.
1-4. National Foreign Intelligence Board.
1-401. Establishment and Duties. There
is established a National Foreign Intelli-
gence Board (NFIB) to advise the Di-
rector of Central Intelligence concern-
ing:
(a) Production, review, and coordina-
tion of national foreign intelligence;
1-403. Restricted Membership and
Observers. When the NFIB meets for the
purpose of section 1-401(a), it shall be
composed solely of the senior intelligence
officers of the designated agencies. The
senior intelligence officers of the Army,
Navy and Air Force may attend all meet-
ings of the NFIB as observers.
1-5. National Intelligence Tasking Cen-
ter.
1-501. Establishment. There is estab-
lished a National Intelligence Tasking
Center (NITC) under the direction, con-
trol and management of the Director of
Central Intelligence for coordinating and
tasking national foreign intelligence col-
lection activities. The NITC shall be
staffed jointly by civilian and military per-
sonnel including designated representa-
197
