Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 28
Navy on submarine cost overruns, and it's
a claim that they've had in for some length
of time, and it's causing them a lot of fi-
nancial difficulty.
I think part of the problem is that we've
given the order for submarines, airplanes,
and other equipment quite early and then
continued with the advanced design dur-
The President. The answer to both ing the same time that construction was
your questions is yes. [Laughter]
I have a continuing relationship with
Admiral Rickover, and he and I have dis-
cussed the General [Dynamics] Electric
Boat claim and also other similar claims
that are quite extensive.
We're now trying to decide how to re-
solve those longstanding claims that'll be
fair to the companies involved to keep
them solvent, but not to overpay them for
the work they've done.
I'll be meeting with the Secretary of
Defense and his deputy, I think next
week; I have a scheduled meeting with
them so that they can give me an up-to-
date report on the negotiations that are
under way.
Admiral Rickover, you know, is very
knowledgeable about this, very strict in
protecting the public's interest. And my
own commitment and that of Secretary
Brown is the same. So, the answer to both
of your questions-
already initiated, which means that exces-
sive change orders are required.
We are trying now to do more of the
research and development work before
we reach the production stage on equip-
ment of all kinds, which would prevent in
the future the very large claims that have
arisen because of past practices. In order
to expedite delivery, quite often the re-
search-development-design phase was go-
ing along at the same time we were actu-
then before the pilot models were tested,
ally constructing operation models, and
we went into production on a large scale.
That is probably counterproductive in al-
most every instance, and we're trying to
change that.
Harold Brown is a superb man. He's
probably as good a technician, as good a
scientist, as good an engineer as there is
anywhere in the Nation, and at the same
time, he's Secretary of Defense.
So, he brings a resource to government
that we haven't had in the past, and I
think his ability plus that of Charles Dun-
can,ยน who's a superb businessman, will
help to prevent this kind of problem in
the future. But how to resolve these past
claims that we've inherited is something
that I'll have to get involved in personally.
Maybe a couple more questions.
Q. You show no bias to submarines?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know enough
about the subject to comment on a par-
ticular claim. Obviously, we have an in-
terest in keeping both the publicly owned
and the privately owned shipyards func-
tioning well, because we have a longstand-
ing need in the past and in the future for
an adequate capability to build our mer-
chant ships and military ships, and we
want to protect the financial stability of briefly, on the subject of submarines, do
them.
I went to Electric Boat Company for
the first time in 1950 and was in charge of
the precommissioning work on the first
ship the Navy built after the Second
World War and got acquainted with the
processes there.
PROJECT SEAFARER
Q. Mr. President, staying on, rather
you favor the submarine communications
system in the upper peninsula of Mich-
igan, Project Seafarer?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think we need a
submarine communications system of that
kind. When a submarine is submerged,
ยน Deputy Secretary of Defense.
239
