Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 24
ter he gets my plan to improve the Gov-
ernment.
As chairman of the House Govern-
ment Operations Committee, he's at the
center of one of the most important un-
dertakings in our country today. It's his
support and his understanding that will
enable us to streamline these Federal pro-
grams, to cut down on redtape, to restore
the emphasis on merit to the civil service.
Last year I set a task force at work, a
hundred different people, top qualified
people in the civil service itself, to work
out ways whereby the civil service could
be more effective. They came up with the
most sweeping reforms to civil service
since it was initiated more than 100 years
ago. And in March, I began to send these
proposals to the Congress.
It'll make it easier to weed out incom-
petents or those who don't want to work
once they get a job. These proposals will
let managers manage. They make it eas-
ier to reward excellence and dedicated
service, and they would provide a more
rapid hearing to workers who do have
grievances. All in all, they go a long way
to restoring competent, efficient, and re-
sponsive government to our country.
A month ago I sent the second and the
final part of the civil service reform pack-
age, the reorganization plan itself. It went
to a very important committee. You can
guess whose committee it is. This plan
safeguards the rights of Federal employ-
ees. It protects employees who blow the
whistle and point out defects in our Gov-
ernment. It sets up an office of personnel
management to bring to our Government
the same kind of modern, up-to-date per-
sonnel practices that are followed by our
best private corporations. And it provides
a fairer and a more efficient way to re-
solve differences of opinion between em-
ployers and those who are employed.
I count very heavily on Jack Brooks to
help me in these efforts, and I want to
carry out my campaign promise that we
will have a government as good and as
competent and as understanding and
compassionate as other people who elect
Jack Brooks, me, Senator Bentsen, and
others to serve you.
We are lightening the burden of Fed-
eral regulations on business, on State and
local governments, and on ordinary citi-
zens. We've got too much government
regulation. It has got to be cut down.
We're beginning to eliminate the worst
nitpicking regulations in agencies like
the occupational safety and health
agency, OSHA. And I can tell you that
Ray Marshall and the new administrators
of OSHA agree completely. In 1 day last
year, 1,100 different regulations were
wiped off the books. And the ones that
we do have are being written in clear
English so a peanut farmer can under-
stand them. And we are now making sure
that the person that writes the regulations
has to sign them, so we'll know who to go
to if they are mistaken or confused or no-
body can understand them.
We've opened up-I'll just use one ex-
ample—the airline industry to deregula-
tion. When we first started doing that, we
knew that it would help consumers to
have cheaper air fares. But we have now
found that not only do we help with
greatly reduced air fares, but the airline
industry is benefiting as well. We are
helping cities and States cut down on
paperwork. But the major problem I
want to talk to you very briefly about, in
closing, in our Nation today is inflation.
All the things that I've described to you
to make government better will help to
cut down on inflation. We know what
caused it originally—the huge cost of the
Vietnam war, the large increases in
worldwide oil prices, and our huge and
growing oil imports. All these things con-
tribute to inflation. And deficit spending
1175
