Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 30
President Sadat, could you give us a gen-
eral outline of your view toward our help-
ing Egypt acquire arms?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been, of
course, facing the continuing prospect for
a number of years of providing some
weapons into the Mideast, heavily to Is-
rael, also to Saudi Arabia, to Iran, and
to some degree, the nonattack weapons to
Egypt.
All these nations have requests to us for
weapons. They've been committed to
those nations to some degree by my two
predecessors and reconfirmed in some in-
stances by me.
The National Security Council will
make a report to me early this week rec-
ommending from the State Department,
from the Defense Department, from the
national security adviser, what weapons to
recommend to the Congress. After that
point, the Congress will have a 30-day plus
a 21-day period to respond affirmatively
or not. I will decide later on this week
what to recommend to the Congress.
The Egyptians have, in the past, re-
quested F-5E fighter planes, one that is
used extensively around the world for ex-
port purposes primarily, and Israel and
Saudi Arabia have requested other weap-
ons. They have some F-5's.
U.S. ATTORNEY DAVID MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, have you seen any-
thing improper in the handling of the
Marston affair? Have you learned any
lessons from it and all of its ramifications,
and do you contemplate any changes in
procedures for appointing and removing
U.S. attorneys?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I
see nothing improper in the handling of
the case. I made a campaign commitment
that any appointee to a position as U.S.
attorney or a judgeship would be ap-
pointed on the basis of merit, and this
campaign commitment will be carried out.
There has also been a statement made
by me during the campaign that, all other
factors equal, that I would choose some-
one for those positions, or even for the
Supreme Court, whose basic political phi-
losophy was compatible with mine. The
fact is that at this point we have about
one-third of the U.S. attorneys around the
country who are Republicans. I think
when I took office, only three Democrats
were in office. And I don't think that
Nixon or Ford appointed any Democrats
during the 8-year period. So far as I know,
they haven't.
I think that the Attorney General has
handled the case as well as possible. I ex-
plained to you at the last press conference
what I knew about the facts then, and so
far as I know, there is no impropriety at
all. I understand from the Attorney Gen-
eral that he has now received recom-
mendations for five highly qualified nom-
inees to take over that responsibility. He
will begin interviewing them tomorrow.
And the likelihood is that he would make
a selection this week.
Q. Mr. President, but isn't it time to
depoliticize the Justice Department, and
in that direction, how about an end to the
political firings of Federal judges and
prosecutors wholly apart from seeing to it
that their Democratic replacements are
highly qualified?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we've
moved strongly in that direction. Obvi-
ously, a Federal judge is not subject to be
removed. The Constitution gives the Pres-
ident a responsibility to appoint those of-
ficials if confirmed by the Senate. And, of
course, a U.S. attorney can be fired or dis-
charged from office only by the President
himself. That does not apply to Federal
judges. They, as you know, serve for life.
We have, I think, moved a great step
in that direction. Over a period of many
generations, the Members of the Senate
have become heavily involved in recom-
245
