May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
CUBAN AND SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN
AFRICA
Q. Is the United States responding in
any way to the continued Soviet-Cuban
adventures in Africa? Are we doing any-
thing to discourage that specifically?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think you
probably know that the Congress placed
very tight constraints on the President and
any initiatives that can be taken, in the
aftermath of the Vietnam war and the
aborted effort to move into Angola after
they got their independence from the
Portuguese.
I favor a lot of those constraints. The
War Powers Act suits me fine, where the
President cannot initiate military action
without consultation with the Congress.
I think this is good.
But within the bounds of the present
law, which we are honoring rigidly, we
are doing all we can. One of the real
needs is to have more public support for
foreign aid programs. I don't know of
any issue that has less political support
than that program itself, foreign aid in
all its forms.
The Soviets and the Cubans are quite
eager to provide military weapons to any
group in a country where they might see
a foothold there opening for them in
the future for increased influence. And
the Soviets are very eager to send Cuban
troops, actually to be involved in the
fighting. And the Cubans respond with-
out reticence.
In order to meet that challenge, we de-
pend upon our own voice to express our
concern to the Soviets through my own
public statements, through private cor-
respondence between me and Brezhnev,
through diplomatic channels, through
the voices and influence of our allies
around the world who want to see an
absence of military action and outside
interference.
We try to strengthen the Organization
of African Unity and prevail upon
the black leaders of Africa that the issues
in that continent can be best resolved by
leaders who live in Africa. We have tried,
since I've been in office, I think in an
innovative way, to increase our own
routine involvement in Africa, not just go
in there at the last stages after a crisis has
occurred.
I received overwhelming welcome, for
instance, in Nigeria, whereas a few years
ago-3 years ago, I think-the Nigerians
refused to let Secretary Kissinger come in-
to their country. And I think whereas
Kaunda, who's here now from Zambia,
has been highly critical of our Govern-
ment and our policies in the past, now he's
very supportive and very constructive.
We are trying to honor the legitimate
demand of black Africans for their own
voice, on an equal basis with other citi-
zens in the shaping of government policy
and the election of their own leaders
and in the determination of their own
future, their own destiny.
Majority rule, one person, one vote
principles that we espouse so fervently
here in our country, we are trying to
espouse those same rights in Africa. To
the extent that we fail to do that, it opens
up an avenue for enhanced intrusion by
the Soviets and the Cubans on a default
basis.
We are working much more closely in
harmony now with European leaders. For
instance, in settling the Namibia question,
we have a five-person committee working
under the aegis of the United Nations-
ourselves, Canada, Britain, France, West
Germany-who are dealing directly with
the South Africans and directly with the
SWAPO organization. We have com-
bined our efforts with the British in try-
ing to resolve the Rhodesian question
fairly, with open elections, free, so that
any person can participate who chooses,
940
