June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
commonplace under legislative veto
statutes.
In addition to causing delay, legisla-
tive veto provisions can seriously harm the
regulatory process. Regulators operating
under such laws would seek to avoid ve-
toes. They would therefore tend to give
more weight to the perceived political
power of affected groups and less to their
substantive arguments. Meetings of regu-
latory commissions could degenerate into
speculation about how to write rules so
they would escape future disapproval of
future Congressional reviewers who are
not present nor represented when the rules
are being drafted. Many regulations
would be evolved in negotiations between
agency officials and Congressional staff
members, subverting requirements in
present law for public notice and com-
ment and for decisions based on the
record. Parties to regulatory proceedings,
never knowing when a decision might be
vetoed, would have to reargue each issue
in Congress.
These problems would lead many regu-
lators to reverse the constructive trend
toward adopting uniform rules. They
would revert to acting on a case-by-case
basis, because the legislative veto cannot
be applied to such decisions. This lack of
uniformity would not reduce the scope
of regulation, but it would reduce clarity
and certainty. Those affected would have
to determine how dozens of decisions on
individual fact situations might apply to
their own cases, instead of abiding by a
single rule.
The most troubling problem, however,
is that the legislative veto treats symp-
toms, not causes. The vast effort required
to second-guess individual regulatory
decisions could impede the crucial task
of revising the underlying statutes.
Agencies issue regulations because
Congress passes laws authorizing them,
or-frequently-mandating them. Many
of these laws have not been seriously re-
examined for years and need change.
This year, Congress is working on key
bills to reform airline regulation, encour-
age public participation in the regulatory
process, require lobbyists to work more
openly, and adopt "sunset" procedures.
Next year's agenda may be even fuller.
We need legislation to speed up and sim-
plify regulatory procedures, and we must
reform a number of individual regula-
tory programs. We must deregulate where
appropriate, make regulation easier to
understand and to honor, and control
the costs which regulations impose on our
economy.
The President and the agency heads
are responsible for improving the man-
agement of regulation, and we are doing
so by administrative action encouraged
by my Executive Order on improving the
regulatory process. Only Congress
through regulatory reform can deal with
the underlying problems caused by a
multitude of individual legislative man-
dates.
Regulation provides just one example
of the problems caused by legislative
vetoes; similarly severe problems arise in
other areas of government. Thus, exces-
sive use of legislative vetoes and other
devices to restrict foreign policy actions
can impede our ability to respond to rap-
idly changing world conditions. Reason-
able flexibility is essential to effective
government.
In sum, for both constitutional and
policy reasons I strongly oppose legisla-
tive vetoes over the execution of pro-
grams. The inclusion of such a provision
in a bill will be an important factor in
my decision to sign or to veto it.
I urge Congress to avoid including
legislative veto provisions in legislation so
that confrontations can be avoided. For
1148
