Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
gram will cost approximately $1.5 billion
a year, with far greater impact.
Location of Federal Facilities
I will sign a new Executive Order di-
recting the General Services Administra-
tion to give first priority to cities in locat-
ing new Federal facilities or consolidating
or relocating existing facilities. Under my
Administration, Federal facilities will be
located in cities, unless such a location is
inconsistent with the agency's mission.
Federal buildings and facilities can be
an important source of jobs and of rental
payments and, in many cities, a principal
stabilizing force preventing decline.
The Federal government should set an
example for the private sector to invest in
urban areas.
Federal Government Procurement
To assure that Federal procurement is
used to strengthen the economic base of
our Nation's cities and communities, I
will:
⚫ strengthen the implementation of the
existing procurement set-aside program
for labor surplus areas, by directing the
General Services Administration to work
with each agency to develop specific pro-
curement targets and to monitor their im-
plementation. GSA will report to me
every six months on the progress of each
Agency;
• direct the Defense Department to
implement an experimental program to
target more of its procurement to high
unemployment areas.
National Development Bank
I propose the creation of a National
Development Bank, which would encour-
age businesses to locate or expand in eco-
nomically distressed urban and rural
areas. The Bank would be authorized to
guarantee investments totaling $11 billion
through 1981.
To lower operating costs in urban
areas, the Bank would provide long-term,
low-cost financing which, in conjunction
with expanded grant programs adminis-
tered by HUD and EDA, will reduce a
firm's financing costs by up to 60 percent.
The Bank uses four major financing
tools:
• Grants of up to 15 percent of a firm's
total capital cost, to a maximum $3 mil-
lion, for fixed assets of a project. The
grants, which would be made under ex-
panded EDA and HUD authorities,
would cover expenditures for land assem-
bly, site preparation, rehabilitation, and
equipment.
• Loan guarantees, provided by the
Bank to cover three-quarters of the re-
maining capital costs up to a maximum
of $15 million per project. The Bank
could, at its discretion, reduce the interest
rate down to two and one-half percent for
particularly desirable projects. Bank
financing would be conditioned on ob-
taining 21 percent of the project's total
costs from private lenders.
• The ceiling for industrial reserve
bonds in economically distressed areas
would be increased from $5 to $20 million
with the approval of the Bank. A business
which used this financing for a project
could also receive a grant.
• The Bank also will provide a second-
ary loan market for private loans in eli-
gible areas to finance capital expendi-
tures. This will be particularly beneficial
to small businesses.
Bank projects will require the approval
of State or local government economic
development entities, which would be
responsible to the elected local leadership.
Distressed urban and rural areas would be
eligible. Additional employment would be
a key test of project eligibility.
The Bank will be an interagency cor-
poration, governed by a Board composed
of the Secretaries of HUD, Commerce
587
