Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
most beautiful and talented of those is
Beverly Sills.
This is a night for dancing and for
waltzing. She's going to sing some selec-
tions from "The Merry Widow," and
she'll be accompanied by a great baritone,
Allan Titus. So, Beverly, if you and Allan
would come forward, we are very eager
to hear from you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:35 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Black Lung Benefits
Reform Act of 1977
Remarks on Signing H.R. 4544 Into Law.
March 1, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I think the attendance
here this morning at this signing cere-
mony indicates the extreme importance
of this legislation. Coal mining has always
been a difficult and a dangerous trade,
and among its most tragic risks has been
black lung disease.
Three weeks ago, I signed a bill that
provided for a new trust fund to be sup-
ported by an excise tax on coal to pay
for black lung benefits. Today, I'm quite
pleased to sign House bill 4544, the Black
Lung Benefits Act of 1977, to strengthen
the administration of that program.
These two bills, in conjunction with
the Mine Safety and Health Amendments
Act of 1977, which was signed last year,
amount to a comprehensive Federal ef-
fort to reduce the human and social costs
to our growing dependence on coal.
Coal miners have a right to working
conditions as free as possible from danger-
ous coal dust. The black lung program
recognizes that miners and their families
also deserve compensation under a fair
system when they contract this terrible
disease and die or are disabled as a re-
sult of their work in the mines.
In the past, miners disabled by black
lung disease too often have been denied
the benefits they deserve. This bill will
remedy many defects in the program. It
simplifies and streamlines the process of
filing for benefits and expands the eligi-
bility to include respiratory and pul-
monary impairment other than just to the
lungs.
It eliminates unfair rules and time
limits that have prevented disabled min-
ers and their survivors from receiving
benefits. The Labor Department will now
be allowed to set fair standards of eligi-
bility, based on the latest medical devel-
opments. Together, these amendments
will ensure that more miners and their
families will receive the benefits that they
deserve.
The Congress and my administration
have worked closely to develop these bills
because of our great concern about the
tragic effects of black lung disease. Many
Members of the Congress have worked
for this bill and the companion revenue
bill already passed.
I want especially to thank Congress-
man Perkins in the House and Jennings
Randolph in the Senate, who have visited
me frequently about this legislation since
I've been in office, and also, of course,
Congressmen Thompson and Ullman,
Senators Byrd, Williams, Long, and Dee
Huddleston, and many others on the com-
mittees for the passage of these good re-
forms.
We could not restore life or health to
the victims of this disease, but we can at
least help to lift the financial burdens
that these disabled miners and their fam-
ilies must bear. This bill accomplishes
that goal.
As we've come to recognize, increased
coal production is vital to our success in
meeting future energy needs. But in-
432
