Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 17
that he shows in southern Africa and in-
deed throughout that continent and the
world. He's a man whose integrity has
never been challenged, never been
doubted. And he's a man who in a prac-
tical way can implement his deep feelings
that I've just described for the benefit of
his own people.
I've had a chance to discuss with him
today some of the most difficult questions
that face the modern world-how to bring
into being in the southern part of a
troubled continent, among people who
are not blessed as are those in Zambia
with those freedoms and basic human
rights, and how his leadership might be
mirrored in me and other leaders who
look to him for guidance; in letting the
people of Rhodesia, Namibia, South
Africa, ultimately enjoy the privileges of
shaping their own governments' policies
and of determining their own future
through democratic processes, based on
majority rule and based on the fact that
each person should have a vote that's
equal to the vote of any other person in
that country.
This inner strength and courage is com-
bined with a gentleness and a sensitivity
that makes President Kaunda be out-
standing in the minds and in the opinions
of those who know him and know his good
influence.
He was here in this room 3 years ago,
and he made a short talk, toast, that was
highly embarrassing to the Americans
who were his hosts. Some criticized him
for his frankness, and even accused him
of being impolite. But the time that's
passed since and our own experience has
shown to me and my administration and
my predecessors here that had we listened
to him closely, and had the policies of our
own government been shaped by him and
his advice toward Africa, we could have
avoided many serious mistakes, much
delay, and expedited the achievements
which we all still await and pursue with
eagerness.
We are indeed fortunate to have states-
men like him come to our country to give
us advice and to reinspire us with their
own past achievements and with their
own dreams and commitments for the
future.
Our nations are tied together with a
spirit not only of friendship and mutual
respect but also now with a common pur-
pose and common policies, common con-
cerns and shared communications and
mutual support.
Zambia's policy has not changed. But
the policy of our own country has
changed. And I think the investment that
we are now placing in Africa with interest
and study will pay rich dividends for our
Nation in the future and for world peace
and for the achievement of those who
have been oppressed too long.
We have been discussing tonight some
of the economic concerns that Zambia
has. One of their major export items is
copper. The copper prices have been se-
verely depressed for the last 2 or 3 years.
And we stand with Zambia, recognizing
that their future, their economic strength
is important to us and to the entire free
world.
President Kaunda will be and has been
meeting with the members of my Cabinet,
with congressional leaders, some of you
around this room. He's had long friend-
ships with some of you. I know that every-
one here, President Kaunda, shares my
words and would corroborate everything
that I've said about your own achieve-
ments and your own qualities.
We hope that southern Africa will take
full advantage of your influence, and the
people of the United States and I, as
921
