Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 14
It was an unpleasant thing for me for
9 months or more to be the intermediary
between nations who wouldn't even speak
to each other, who wouldn't communi-
cate directly with each other almost with
a religious fervor. And now, to see Sadat
and Begin and their representatives ne-
gotiating directly is a very major step
forward and a very gratifying thing for
me to observe.
I think Sadat's initiative has been bold
and courageous. I think it's too early to
say whether or not the Israeli response is
adequate. That's for Sadat to judge. The
major bone of contention right now, of
course, is the highly publicized Israeli
position on settlements, which we have
always considered to be illegal.
And I just can't imagine Prime Minis-
ter Begin and the Israeli Government
having the basic peace negotiations broken
down because of an argument about
settlements. It may very well be that in
the West Bank or the Sinai that there
could be some mutual agreements between
Jordan, Egypt, Israel, that some of those
Israeli settlers could stay on there. But
that would be tied in very intimately with
whether or not United Nations forces
were the peacekeeping forces or whether
the responsibility was Jordan's or the
Palestinians' or Egypt's.
I think the details of those things are
matters that I ought not to address pub-
licly. I do discuss them without constraint
with both Begin and Sadat, and we are
very forceful in letting Prime Minister
Begin and the Arab leaders know when
we disagree with their position.
I've been very careful to do one thing,
and that is that whenever we have an
American position to put forward as a
compromise or as a basis for discussions
earlier this year, to put it in writing and
show exactly the same document to Sadat,
to Hussein, to Begin, and also to Asad,
just so there's no doubt about where we
stand and what we are proposing. And
then, if Begin disagrees with item num-
ber four, we tell Sadat-with Begin's per-
mission, of course this is something that
Begin disagrees with, and seek his re-
sponse. That was a tedious and, I say,
unpleasant responsibility. But now we are
there to cooperate with them.
The last thing I want to say is that our
effectiveness in a time of stalemate or dis-
pute is exactly compatible or commen-
surate with the trust that they have in
me. If I should ever do anything to make
either the Prime Minister or President
Sadat or King Hussein or Asad feel that
we weren't acting in good faith, that I
was lying to them or misleading them or
shading the truth, our effectiveness would
be completely destroyed.
I don't think we've ever done that yet.
It means, sometimes, that our Nation is
taking the blame from both sides when
we put forward a position that was not
instantly acceptable. But I'm pleased with
the progress made so far.
NUCLEAR POWER
Q. Mr. President, I'm Dick Smyser
Mr.
from Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Brzezinski told us this morning that you
are a man who chooses his words very
carefully. It seems to us in Oak Ridge,
either rightfully or wrongfully, that when
you talk about energy you either con-
sciously don't mention nuclear power or
mention it only in negative terms. And it
seems to us that this has something to do
with the public perception of nuclear
power.
In the light of recent concern for CO2
and what you said yesterday about oil
imports, do you still think that nuclear
71
