Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
portunity to reciprocate, even in a modest
way and in the traditional African man-
ner, the warmth of the reception, the
generosity, and the meticulous care and
attention which were accorded me and
my delegation during our visit to your
country.
In the conduct of international rela-
tions today, direct, personal contacts and
consultations among those who are
charged with the responsibilities of guid-
ing the affairs of their respective nations
are a vital instrument for promoting in-
ternational understanding and respect for
one another's views and positions. We are
pleased for this opportunity, offered by
your visit, to continue the dialog and ex-
change of views on the various matters of
mutual interest to our two countries
which were initiated in the course of my
visit to the United States.
Our discussion then, as now, centered
on our joint search for international peace
and stability; the restructuring of inter-
state relations to ensure freedom, under-
standing, and justice, as well as a more
equitable economic quota between the
rich and the poor nations; the improve-
ment of fundamental human rights and
the dignity of man everywhere, whatever
his race, color, or creed.
We believe that in our efforts to attain
these goals, every nation has an obligation
to fulfill and a contribution to make, irre-
spective of size, circumstance, or geopo-
litical status. To many of us in Nigeria,
and, if I may venture to say, in Africa
generally, the United States as a nation
evokes sentiment of admiration, since
your country has come a long way from
casting away the yoke of colonialism to
building a relatively free, united, and
strong society, where the freedom of the
individual and his rights remain supreme.
This strength of your society lies not
merely in the breathtaking capacity of its
astronauts, nor in America's unequaled
mastery of the skills of science and tech-
nology, not even so much in the quality of
life, but, above all, in the constant en-
deavor to live up to the ideals of its
Founding Fathers.
I believe many will accept and agree
that herein lies the greatest attribute of
the American society.
Besides, Mr. President, the continuing
American aspiration and contribution to
the noble ideals of social justice and hu-
man liberty, at home and abroad, have
made its influence felt within your bor-
ders and across the vast seas and farflung
frontiers of states.
The search for these noble ideals is a
never-ending process, whether in devel-
oped societies like yours or in developing
societies like ours.
Your personal commitment to decent
human values and service to mankind is
not in doubt. We remember with admira-
tion that your mother, Miss Lillian, at the
age of 70, did serve with the Peace Corps
in India in 1968, long before you became
the President. This deep-rooted family
concern for humanity has provided the
inner strength of your own personal sin-
cerity on matters of human and civil
rights and underlies the understanding of
our two Governments on issues affecting
the life and dignity of the black man.
Mr. President, we consider it, there-
fore, a logical development that Africa
should now occupy its rightful place in the
heart of America's foreign policy.
In your brief stay in this capital city
of Lagos, you will perhaps already have
gained some impression of some of the
urgent and critical problems with which
we are coping in our endeavor to build
up Nigeria into a progressive and virile
society, not only with a strong economic
base but one founded on respect and
dignity for human values.
We have assiduously embarked on the
implementation of a political program
655
