Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
with the developing nations of the world
on a fair basis.
MR. JARRETT. It doesn't bother you
much that Nyerere is a Socialist, for an
example?
THE PRESIDENT. No, it doesn't bother
me. I think he's a nationalist. I think he's
looking for what is best for his people in
Tanzania. I think he's a very strong, dy-
namic leader on a worldwide basis, and
he's a very valuable friend of ours.
HUMAN RIGHTS
MR. LEWIS. Many people feel that the
President of the United States is more
concerned about human rights outside of
the United States and not enough con-
cerned about human rights at home.
What is your reaction to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that's an
accurate assessment. I think that our
whole international emphasis on human
rights would be undercut and fruitless if
we didn't set an example in our country
of being very insistent that human rights
be protected here. And also, it's important
for us to acknowledge that we still have
a long way to go in giving our people
genuine human rights, not just political
rights but also the right to, as I said
earlier, to an education, to health care,
to good housing, good clothing, good
place to live.
So, I think that we've got to set an
example in our country. Otherwise the
other nations just won't pay any attention
to us.
MR. JARRETT. Have you considered
making a statement in support, for an ex-
ample, of the Wilmington 10, even though
that's a State judicial matter?
THE PRESIDENT. The only thing that I
have been willing to do is to let our At-
torney General investigate the circum-
stances under which the trial was held.
As you know, the Wilmington 10 are
now going into the Federal Courts to
make an appeal. And I think it would not
be appropriate for me to make a pre-
liminary judgment from the executive
branch of Government as to what the
Federal judiciary ought to do. Justice,
yes; interference in the specifics of the
case, no.
MR. BRYANT. Gentlemen, I'm afraid
that we're out of time. You've been Presi-
dent for a year and 4 months, and we've
had 27 minutes to discuss that, which is
clearly impossible. I hope that we'll per-
haps have an opportunity to do this again
at some reasonable time.
THE PRESIDENT. I hope so. You had
some very tough and very good questions.
I think we exposed a lot of the interests
that I have in the report on my adminis-
tration and in a very brief period of time,
thanks to you.
MR. BRYANT. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: The interview began at 2 p.m. in the
Map Room at the White House. It was taped
for later broadcast on the Public Broadcasting
Service. Mr. Bryant is producer of "Black Per-
spective on the News."
The transcript of the interview was released
on April 6.
White House Conference on
Small Business
Letter to Senator Gaylord Nelson of
Wisconsin Concerning the Conference.
April 5, 1978
To Senator Gaylord Nelson:
I have carefully reviewed your October
1976 memorandum recommending a
White House Conference on Small Busi-
ness, as well as the additional memoran-
dum of last autumn. This material and
our recent discussion have satisfied me
that such a conference would be very con-
structive for the nation's 14 million small
and independent businesses. Therefore, I
695
