Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 10
American Bolt, Nut, and Large
Screw Industry
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting a
Report. February 10, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a
report to the Congress setting forth
my de-
termination that import relief for the U.S.
bolt, nut, and large screw industry is not
in the national economic interest, and ex-
plaining the reasons for my decision.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
BOLTS, NUTS, AND LARGE SCREWS
As required under section 203(b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to Congress setting forth
the actions I will take with respect to
bolts, nuts, and large screws covered by
the affirmative finding on December 8,
1977, of the U.S. International Trade
Commission (USITC) under section 201
(d)(1) of the Trade Act. As my action
differs from that recommended by the
USITC, I have included the reasons for
my decision.
I have determined that import relief
for the domestic nut, bolt, and large screw
industry would not be in the national eco-
nomic interest for the following reasons:
1. The USITC reported that domestic
producers' shipments and exports had in-
creased in 1976 and the first half of 1977.
It also indicated that domestic producers'
rates of return on sales were above the
corresponding ratios for producers of all
fabricated metal products and for all
manufacturing corporations. Further-
more, domestic producers or their wholly
owned subsidiaries imported or purchased
20-25 percent of total 1976 shipments of
imported fasteners in the United States.
The domestic industry, particularly firms
specializing in the production of automo-
tive fasteners, has and should continue to
benefit from increased U.S. consumption
of fasteners.
2. Provision of import relief would have
significantly increased costs of fasteners
for U.S. manufacturers who use fasteners
to produce cars, machinery, equipment,
and construction items. The inflationary
impact of providing relief could cause un-
employment in other U.S. industries, off-
setting gains in fastener employment if
import relief had been imposed.
3. The Department of Labor has stated
that reemployment prospects for unem-
ployed fastener workers are fair since.
many of these workers are located in areas
with unemployment rates below the na-
tional average.
4. Provision of import relief would sub-
ject U.S. jobs in other industries to possi-
ble foreign retaliation against U.S.exports
or compensation by the United States by
lessening U.S. import restrictions on other
products.
5. Import relief would adversely affect
U.S. international economic interests, par-
ticularly in light of U.S. efforts to reduce
trade barriers in the multilateral trade
negotiations.
6. The appreciation of the yen during
1977 will alleviate competitive pressures
from Japanese fastener exports to the
United States. Imports from Japan have
comprised about three-fourths of total
U.S. fastener imports in recent years.
In conjunction with my decision not to
provide import relief on fasteners, I have
directed the Secretary of the Treasury to
initiate an expedited national security in-
vestigation, under Section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 of U.S. im-
ports of bolts, nuts, and large screws. I
am taking this action in light of a staff
301
