Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
1-1502. Participate with the Depart-
ment of State in the overt collection of
general foreign political, economic and
agricultural information relating to nar-
cotics production and trafficking; and
1-1503. Coordinate with the Director of
Central Intelligence to ensure that the
foreign narcotics intelligence activities of
DEA are consistent with other foreign in-
telligence programs.
SECTION 2
RESTRICTIONS ON INTELLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES
2-1. Adherence to Law.
2-101. Purpose. Information about the
capabilities, intentions and activities of
foreign powers, organizations, or per-
sons and their agents is essential to in-
formed decision-making in the areas of
national defense and foreign relations.
The measures employed to acquire such
information should be responsive to
legitimate governmental needs and must
be conducted in a manner that preserves
and respects established concepts of pri-
vacy and civil liberties.
2-102. Principles of Interpretation.
Sections 2-201 through 2-309 set forth
limitations which, in addition to other
applicable laws, are intended to achieve
the proper balance between protection of
individual rights and acquisition of essen-
tial information. Those sections do not
authorize any activity not authorized by
sections 1-101 through 1-1503 and do
not provide any exemption from any other
law.
2-2. Restrictions on Certain Collection
Techniques.
2-201. General Provisions.
(a) The activities described in Sections
2-202 through 2-208 shall be undertaken
only as permitted by this Order and by
procedures established by the head of the
agency concerned and approved by the
Attorney General. Those procedures shall
protect constitutional rights and privacy,
ensure that information is gathered by
the least intrusive means possible, and
limit use of such information to lawful
governmental purposes.
(b) Activities described in sections
2-202 through 2-205 for which a warrant
would be required if undertaken for law
enforcement rather than intelligence pur-
poses shall not be undertaken against a
United States person without a judicial
warrant, unless the President has author-
ized the type of activity involved and the
Attorney General has both approved the
particular activity and determined that
there is probable cause to believe that the
United States person is an agent of a
foreign power.
2-202. Electronic Surveillance. The
CIA may not engage in any electronic
surveillance within the United States. No
agency within the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall engage in any electronic sur-
veillance directed against a United States
person abroad or designed to intercept a
communication sent from, or intended for
receipt within, the United States except
as permitted by the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 2-201. Train-
ing of personnel by agencies in the Intelli-
gence Community in the use of electronic
communications equipment, testing by
such agencies of such equipment, and the
use of measures to determine the exist-
ence and capability of electronic surveil-
lance equipment being used unlawfully
shall not be prohibited and shall also be
governed by such procedures. Such ac-
tivities shall be limited in scope and dura-
tion to those necessary to carry out the
training, testing or countermeasures pur-
pose. No information derived from com-
munications intercepted in the course of
such training, testing or use of counter-
206
