Jan. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
it's imperative, in case our Nation's secu-
rity is directly threatened, to have com-
munication with them.
The only means of fairly rapid com-
munication is with the very low frequency,
ultra-low frequency transmissions sys-
tems, and there are certain topographical
or geological structures in our continent
that permit this transmission of signal
underneath the land and water.
We are concerned, of course, about the
reaction of people in those two States as
far as environmental questions are con-
cerned and, also, to assuage their con-
cerns about possible effect of the radio
waves that are generated.
So, my answer is yes, I am familiar with
it; yes, I do think we need that com-
munication system. But I'm very deeply
committed to be sure that nothing is done
to disturb the quality of life of the people
there.
FARM STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, the farm strike has
moved from the prairies of Kansas to the
streets in Washington, in a sense. I was
wondering if there's anything in the ad-
ministration in the form of recommenda-
tions, other than words of sympathy, that
would deal with this supposed money
plight of the farmer and, if not, if the
administration believes that the farmers
will indeed plow up the crops next year?
The President. Well, of course, the
'78 crops haven't been planted, except for
winter wheat. You know, I'm a farmer,
and Senator Talmadge is a farmer. Bob
Bergland is a farmer. We have a genuine
problem.
I would say that in the last 5 years that
the cost of producing most crops has in-
creased a hundred percent, certainly as far
as equipment prices, energy prices, fer-
tilizer prices is concerned. At the same
time, most commodity prices have in-
creased very little, if at all. The debt that
farmers now hold has increased rapidly.
The amount of reserve finances in coun-
try banks is down below the historical
averages.
We do have a good bit of flexibility
within the 1977 agricultural act that the
Congress passed and I approved last year.
We have large reserve supplies of feed
grains, food grains carried over. There's
no way to predict what the weather will
be this year. We've already initiated a
moderate set-aside program at some sub-
stantial cost to the Government. And we
have about 6 or 7 billion dollars in in-
creased payments authorized to the farm-
ers, because of higher target prices and
support prices.
What else needs to be done at this point
I haven't decided. The impact of the new
farm legislation has not yet been felt on
the agricultural community of our coun-
try. It only went into effect the first day
of October, and of course, it hadn't gone
through a crop season yet. I think there
will be some benefit at least from that.
I don't see any possibility of lower prices
for fuel, nor for fertilizer. I think that
there's going to have to be a sober assess-
ment by the farmers themselves of eco-
nomic circumstances now and in the
future.
I live and have always lived among and
with farmers. My people have been in—
my Carter family has been here over 300
years—we've all been farmers, every gen-
eration of us. And it's a characteristic of
many farmers to spend this year what you
made last year. And I think there's been
an inclination with the limited acreage to
have a heavier and heavier investment
in equipment that's very costly. At the
same time, of course, yields have gone up.
In the long run, the food and feed de-
mands with a fixed or dwindling acreage
supply will correct the problem. But at the
240
