Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and so my top priority this year on the
domestic scene is still the economy.
I've asked the Congress to help me put
into effect a coherent program to make
more jobs and to bring inflation closer
under control. We need a cooperative
anti-inflation effort, with voluntary ac-
tion being taken by industry and by labor
to keep wages and prices from pushing
each other up.
We need an expanded jobs program to
help those who are hit hardest by unem-
ployment. Next week I will send to the
Congress legislation that would reauthor-
ize the $12 billion Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act, provide for
725,000 public service jobs and for a bil-
lion dollar youth employment and train-
ing program.
Also, we need tax reduction and tax re-
form. They go together. They add up to
$25 billion in net cuts in the income taxes
Americans have to pay, and they are also
designed to create an additional 1 mil-
lion new jobs. Seventeen billion dollars of
this tax cut will be for working families
in our country, personal income tax re-
ductions, and the rest in corporate tax
reductions.
Corporations will also receive higher
tax credits for investing in the sort of new
plants, new equipment that will make
New England and the rest of the Nation
competitive with aggressive foreign
exports.
But we can't have these cuts in taxes
unless we help pay for them by eliminat-
ing some of our unnecessary and unwar-
ranted income tax subsidies. Two of these
are the deferral subsidy and the DISC
subsidies. Both have a particularly bad
effect in New England, where competition
from abroad has had such a terrible effect
on businessmen and on workers alike.
The deferral subsidy sets a situation in
effect where multilateral corporations
pay lower taxes on foreign profits than
they pay on their U.S. profits. This
amounts to subsidizing corporations to
export jobs overseas. The so-called DISC
subsidies are just as bad. They let U.S.
corporations set up dummy corpora-
tions to handle foreign exports, so as to
keep from paying U.S. taxes on half their
profits. Both these giveaways go over-
whelmingly to a few of the largest multi-
national corporations, and both mean that
the average taxpayer has to pay the bill,
more taxes, just to take up the slack
caused by these subsidies. And both cost
America, and particularly New England,
jobs. Both loopholes should be closed.
As for the famous three-martini lunch,
I don't care how many martinis anyone
has with lunch, but I am concerned about
who picks up the check. I don't think a
relatively small minority has some sort of
divine right to have expensive meals, free
theater tickets, country club dues, sport-
ing events tickets paid for by heavier
taxes on everybody else.
If the Congress will help me by getting
rid of these tax loopholes and by enacting
the entire economic program, we can have
a good start on correcting unemployment
and inflation.
The economy won't turn around over-
night, of course, any more than an ocean
liner can turn around on a dime. The job
will require slow, careful planning, not
dramatic master strokes. It will require
small corrections, of course, that we
adhere to very patiently. It will require
careful planning, careful adjustment,
careful tuning and cooperation.
The machinery of the American econ-
omy is sound. We have a lot to be thank-
ful for. It's worked well despite severe
shocks, but it can work better, and that's
our major goal in this country this year.
And now, I'd be glad to answer your
questions.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
332
