Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
$5 billion allocation this next year for
solar energy would be completely exces-
sive. I don't think there's any way that we
could either finance it without destroying
the American budget, nor do I think that
we could administer it for the benefit of
the American people.
The first step that the Congress ought
to take, including those 100 Members
who signed that legislation, is to get
passed the comprehensive energy pack-
age that's been considered by the Con-
gress for the last 13 months. They've been
too slow acting, and we need to expedite
that process. Included in that legislation,
by the way, is a $2,000 tax credit for any
family who wants to install solar heating
equipment in their own homes.
There is also direct grants, guaranteed
loans for that purpose. The day before
yesterday in Golden, Colorado, I an-
nounced that we were increasing by $100
million more the amount of money that
we had already requested for solar energy
research and development and demon-
stration projects.
In some areas of solar energy, we have
passed the demonstration stage. We don't
need to finance the installation anymore
of units to heat water in a home, or even
to heat a home. We know the technology.
There are a million of those units in
Japan right now. There are 300,000 of
those units in Israel right now. It's time
for us to move from research, develop-
ment, and demonstration there to mar-
keting. And I believe the best way to im-
prove the rate with which American
families install solar heating units and
air-conditioning units on their homes is
to make it possible for them to get loans
to buy the unit, and to give them tax
credits to encourage these purchases.
The manufacturers are ready to go to
work on that, and I think we have made
a proposal that's adequate to the Con-
gress. We are going to increase, however,
research and development into other
forms of solar energy-temperature
gradients in the ocean, windmill power-
plants, the research and development on
photovoltaic cells, the biomass processes,
by which wood products or waste products
or even garbage is changed into useful
energy, and so forth.
That's where the research and develop-
ment ought to be in solar energy, and not
a $5 billion program as you've just de-
scribed that would distort the whole en-
ergy picture and I don't think is neces-
sary. I think we'll have a strong, good,
aggressive, adequate solar energy stimulus
package if the Congress will simply act ex-
peditiously on a proposal that I've just
outlined to you, which has already been
made to them.
HOMEOWNERSHIP
Q. Mr. President, my name is John J.
Hastings. I wish to preface my question
with this statement about you. I believe
that you are the best President this coun-
try has known in its 201-year history.
I am interested in economics and in in-
flation. Will you please tell me how a
young couple in the 25-year-old age
bracket might secure the collateral to buy
an average home in the $70,000 to $80,-
000 bracket here in the Spokane Valley?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, I
liked the first part of your presentation
better. [Laughter] I'm not the best, and
when I walk around the White House
and realize the quality of my predecessors,
it's a very sobering experience and a very
inspirational thing.
We have a lot of meetings, for instance,
in what they call the State Dining Room.
And looking down on that room is a very
somber and a very serious portrait of
Abraham Lincoln. And down in the
Map Room there's a little rough-looking
wooden box-and when you open it
up,
869
