Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Education Day, U.S.A., 1978
Proclamation 4562. April 17, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On April 13 of this year the Congress
of the United States concluded its delib-
erations on a joint resolution which rec-
ognized the need for this Nation to set
aside a special day devoted to recognizing
the importance of education in the lives of
our citizens. To emphasize its commit-
ment, the Congress has authorized and
requested the President to issue a proc-
lamation designating April 18, 1978, as
Education Day; U.S.A., and calling for
its appropriate observance. I am honored
to join with the House of Representatives
and the Senate in recognizing this need
and privileged to comply with their
request.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim Tuesday,
April 18, 1978, as Education Day, U.S.A.
and I ask all Americans to observe that
day in such manner as reflects their com-
mitment to education and their recogni-
tion of its importance to the welfare of
this Nation.
In Witness WhereOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventeenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:10 p.m., April 18, 1978]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on April 18.
National Oceans Week, 1978
Proclamation 4563. April 17, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Throughout history the ocean has been
a magnet for explorers, scientists, mer-
chants, adventurers-and dreamers.
Where once the oceans were cloaked in
superstition, today we plumb their depths
with an amazing array of technological
devices, and we are beginning to under-
stand the vital role of the oceans in life
on this planet. The world community
looks to the oceans as a vital source of
food, energy and mineral resources, while
they remain crucial to trade as they have
been since ancient times.
As governments, international orga-
nizations and private groups develop
plans and programs to harvest some of
the riches of the sea, we must also control
marine pollution. We must unlock the
secrets of the ocean to understand the
results of man's activities-not only at
sea, but on land as well—which adversely
affect sea-life. It is essential that we dis-
cover and work with the oceans' capacity
to survive misuse. All the peoples of the
world must understand that the ocean
cannot be subjected to unchecked ex-
ploitation, but because our Nation lies
between the world's largest oceans, and
because of our economic position, the
United States has a special responsibility
in preventing the deadening of the seas.
A careful balance between conservation
and commercial development must be
achieved if the oceans are to meet the
needs of future generations.
In order to increase public awareness
of the importance of the oceans of the
world, the Ninety-fifth Congress has
756
