May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
OMB's Office of Federal Procurement
Policy in cooperation with the Agencies.
JIMMY CARTER
Special Session of the
United Nations General
Assembly on Disarmament
Announcement of Vice President Mondale's
Address at the Special Session.
May 18, 1978
President Carter has asked Vice Presi-
dent Walter F. Mondale to address on
behalf of the United States the United
visory committee on a White House Small
Business Conference, it is hereby ordered
as follows:
1-1. Establishment of Commission.
1-101. There is established a Small
Business Conference Commission. The
Commission shall be composed of five
members.
1-102. The members of the Commis-
sion shall be appointed by the President.
The President shall designate a Chair-
man from among the members.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall recom-
mend appropriate alternate dates for
Nations General Assembly Special Session holding a White House Conference on
on Disarmament.
The Vice President will deliver the
United States address on May 24, 1978, in
the United Nations General Assembly.
The Special Session was convened in
order to emphasize the importance of
making progress in the field of arms con-
trol and to provide impetus for future
arms control negotiations. It is the largest
conference ever convened devoted ex-
clusively to questions of arms control.
President Carter has stated the deter-
mination of the United States to make a
positive contribution to the work of the
conference. The Vice President's partici-
pation underscores the importance the
United States attaches to the Special Ses-
sion on Disarmament.
Small Business Conference
Commission
Executive Order 12061. May 18, 1978
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to create
in accordance with the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) an ad-
Small Business in the Fall of 1979.
1-202. The Commission shall recom-
mend issues to be considered by the Con-
ference, including those relating to foster-
ing of small business and the expansion of
opportunities for entry into small busi-
ness enterprises.
1-203. The Commission shall recom-
mend candidates for delegates to the
Conference. It shall seek the majority of
representatives from those engaged in
small business activity, but shall also in-
clude others interested in small business
concerns, such as government regulators,
financiers, public interest and academic
representatives.
1-204. Prior to the White House Con-
ference on Small Business, the Commis-
sion shall hold open regional and local
meetings or conferences. These open
meetings shall seek to identify the specific
issues which should be addressed at the
Conference and shall solicit candidates
for Conference delegates.
1-205. The Commission shall make
periodic recommendations to the Presi-
dent and the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration, and shall offer
such other advice at such times as the
Administrator may request.
928
