May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
North Atlantic Alliance Summit
Toasts of the President and Turkish Prime
Minister Bulent Ecevit at the Dinner
Honoring the Heads of Delegation.
May 30, 1978
The President. First of all, I'd like to
say that we are delighted to have you
here. This is our first dinner, or supper,
in the Rose Garden, and it's worked out
very well. This is kind of a test of
NATO's influence with the weather.
[Laughter]
I would like to say, too, before anyone
gets the wrong impression about our
military commitment and our strength,
although these representatives of our
military bands can play the violin very
beautifully, they also know how to fight.
So we are good, staunch allies there.
I've enjoyed very much being with our
President this evening, Prime Minister
Ecevit. I've learned a lot about politics
from him. We have several very distin-
guished Members of the Congress here,
and I called one over to meet him to-
night, Senator Bob Morgan from North
Carolina. And when he came over,
Prime Minister Ecevit told him that he
used to live in North Carolina and
worked for the Winston-Salem newspa-
per, and he said, “I've even got Tar Heel
cufflinks on." So he's taught me a great
deal.
This is a wonderful occasion for us.
Very seldom in the history of our Nation
and very seldom in the history of the
White House, which has been here since
1801-except for a brief interlude when
some of Jim Callaghan's ¹ people got here
in 1812 [laughter]-have we had such a
delightful and distinguished group of
guests.
¹ Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
As a matter of fact, you're not exactly
guests, because you're partners of ours in
one of the finest and most noble endeavors
in the history of the United States of
America. We are proud of our relation-
ship. Yesterday was Memorial Day, and
throughout our country we paused to rec-
ognize the tremendous contribution in
past years of men and women who have
given their lives and offered their lives
in the defense of our Nation, what it
stands for, our principles, our ideals. And
it's a great reminder of what NATO has
meant to us, too.
We know what can be the price of pre-
serving precious ideals. We know the
value of a partnership formed in a time
of danger, a time of war. We know the
value of strong and able and deeply com-
mitted allies. And this is what NATO
means to us.
For 30 years now, almost 30 years, the
strength of NATO has permitted democ-
racy and freedom to flourish. And it's with
a great gratitude and a sense of common
commitment and common purpose that
we've gathered here for these 2 days of
deliberations.
This Alliance has guaranteed our own
security here in the United States, and it's
been of great value to us. It's one of the
things that we cherish most highly. For
us, therefore, it has been a matter of ne-
cessity to be a partner with you in the
North American (Atlantic) 2 Alliance,
and it's also been a fulfillment of what
to us has been in the past, and still is, a
moral obligation.
We learned, during two great wars in
this century, some profound and unfor-
gettable lessons: that through strength
can come peace, and that in awareness of
a common resolution among free men and
women there can be a conviction of po-
2 Printed in the transcript.
1016
