June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
You men are joining a long tradition
of superior leadership, seamanship, tac-
tics, and ship design. And I'm confident
that the U.S. Navy has no peer, no equal,
on the high seas today, and that you, I,
and others will always keep the Navy
strong.
Let there be no doubt about our pres-
ent and future strength. This brief assess-
ment which I've just made shows that we
need not be overly concerned about our
ability to compete and to compete success-
fully. Certainly there is no cause for
alarm. The healthy self-criticism and the
free debate which are essential in a de-
mocracy should never be confused with
weakness or despair or lack of purpose.
What are the principal elements of
American foreign policy to the Soviet
Union? Let me outline them very briefly.
We will continue to maintain equiva-
lent nuclear strength, because we believe
that in the absence of worldwide nuclear
disarmament, such equivalency is the least
threatening and the most stable situation
for the world.
We will maintain a prudent and sus-
tained level of military spending, keyed to
a stronger NATO, more mobile forces,
and undiminished presence in the Pacific.
We and our allies must and will be able
to meet any foreseeable challenge to our
security from either strategic nuclear
forces or from conventional forces. Amer-
ica has the capability to honor this com-
mitment without excessive sacrifice on the
part of our citizens, and that commitment
to military strength will be honored.
Looking beyond our alliances, we will
support worldwide and regional organi-
zations which are dedicated to enhancing
international peace, like the United Na-
tions, the Organization of American
States, and the Organization for African
Unity.
In Africa we and our African friends
want to see a continent that is free of
the dominance of outside powers, free of
the bitterness of racial injustice, free of
conflict, and free of the burdens of pov-
erty and hunger and disease. We are con-
vinced that the best way to work toward
these objectives is through affirmative
policies that recognize African realities
and that recognize aspirations.
The persistent and increasing military
involvement of the Soviet Union and
Cuba in Africa could deny this hopeful
vision. We are deeply concerned about
the threat to regional peace and to the
autonomy of countries within which these
foreign troops seem permanently to be
stationed. That is why I've spoken up on
this subject today. And this is why I and
the American people will support Afri-
can efforts to contain such intrusion, as
we have done recently in Zaire.
I urge again that all other powers join
us in emphasizing works of peace rather
than the weapons of war. In their assist-
ance to Africa, let the Soviet Union now
join us in seeking a peaceful and a speedy
transition to majority rule in Rhodesia
and in Namibia. Let us see efforts to re-
solve peacefully the disputes in Eritrea
and in Angola. Let us all work, not to
divide and to seek domination in Africa,
but to help those nations to fulfill their
great potential.
We will seek peace, better communi-
cation and understanding, cultural and
scientific exchange, and increased trade
with the Soviet Union and with other
nations.
We will attempt to prevent the pro-
liferation of nuclear weapons among those
nations not now having this capability.
We will continue to negotiate con-
structively and persistently for a fair
strategic arms limitation agreement. We
know that no ideological victories can be
won by either side by the use of nuclear
weapons.
1056
