Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
spirit, together, as the Bible says, we can
move mountains.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the
House Chamber at the Capitol. He was intro-
duced by Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives. The address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
The State of the Union
Annual Message to the Congress.
January 19, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Tonight's State of the Union Address
concentrates on this year's highest priori-
ties-a strong energy bill; a coordinated
economic program of job creation, tax
reduction, tax reform and anti-inflation
measures; making the government more
effective and efficient; maintaining the
peace through a strong national defense;
and ratifying both the Panama Canal
Treaties and, if completed, the SALT II
treaty.
It is important that the Congress and
the Nation also understand what our
other important initiatives and goals will
be for 1978. I am therefore sending to
Congress this separate, more detailed
State of the Union Message, which de-
scribes Administration priorities in the
areas not fully covered in the Address.
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS
A number of serious domestic problems
faced the Nation when I took office one
year ago. The economy had not yet fully
recovered from the recession; our coun-
try had no sound energy policy; the Fed-
eral government was operating ineffi-
ciently and ineffectively in many areas;
concerns about the openness and integrity
of our government remained in the after-
math of Watergate; and many of our
most pressing social problems had not
been addressed.
In 1977, my Administration did not
solve all of those problems. But Congress
joined us in tackling many of these issues,
and together we made progress. Now that
a year has passed, I believe we are a more
confident people, with more trust in our
institutions. We are a country on the move
again, prepared to address our problems
with boldness and confidence, at home
and abroad. We have reasserted our con-
cern for the problems of people here at
home and reaffirmed our position of moral
leadership in the world.
This year, my domestic goals will con-
tinue to reflect those concerns that guided
my actions in 1977: restoring economic
prosperity; meeting our Nation's human
needs; making the government more effi-
cient and more responsive; and develop-
ing and protecting our natural resources.
RESTORING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY
I am devoting a substantial part of my
State of the Union Address to the need
for a comprehensive economic program,
and I will devote the bulk of my Economic
Report to Congress, to be delivered to-
morrow, to a complete description of my
Administration's economic goals and ob-
jectives. In this Message, therefore, I will
not repeat those statements but I want to
set forth briefly the key elements of those
proposals:
-a $23 billion income tax cut in 1979,
with $17 billion going to individuals
and their families and $6 billion
going to businesses;
-a tax reform program designed to
make our tax laws fairer and simpler;
386
