May 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
bered the famous moral precept of your
predecessor, Mr. President, Abraham
Lincoln, "Right makes might."
On behalf of right, we fought for our
country and for our liberty. In the thir-
ties, our people looked for a haven and
didn't find it. In the forties, they cried
out for help and didn't get it. And then
we reached the conclusion that if we
don't fight and conquer our liberty, no-
body will give it to us. So, in the tradition
of the American people, we rose to fight.
There were the great sacrifices, the suf-
fering, but today is a day of rejoicing.
Vesamachta bechagecha!
Although in the life of her people for
many generations, sadness and joy are in-
termingled, yesterday we remembered
the fallen heroes of the ghettos, the help-
less left alone to fight not even for their
lives, not even for their liberty, but for
human dignity and for the dignity of
their people, because those lone fighters
indeed fought for all humanity.
But today is a day of rejoicing. Thirty
years ago, a little flag, blue and white,
was hoisted before the eyes of all the na-
tions to see, namely, Judea rose again,
Israel will live.
And when we remember what hap-
pened until that day—their people, what
persecution and humiliation they went
through and, ultimately, mass physical
destruction, then we can appreciate what
an effort was necessary and was made in
order to achieve that day of our national
renaissance.
Let us rejoice. The blessing of freedom
is incomparable to any other. Only he
who lost it can appreciate it. And we had
lost it; we regained it with the efforts and
the self-sacrifice of our best men.
So today, let us remember our heroes
who made our victory possible and our
independence assured.
Today also, my dear friends, is from
another point of view, a day of rejoicing.
The President and I just finished a dis-
cussion and a private talk, and earlier we
had a talk with the Secretary of State.
May I tell you, bringing you good tid-
ings with all my heart, thank God-
baruch hashem-these discussions and
talks are characterized with friendship,
with understanding. There is that feeling
that America and Israel are inseparable,
friends and allies.
Mr. President, we too, as you, hope
that there will come a day when our
brethren in the Soviet Union will be free
to go to the historic homeland of our
people. The Jewish people will never give
up a fight for liberty and for justice.
Never.
Now, Mr. President, ladies and gentle-
men, as we rejoice in the achievement of
Israel's independence, a holiday not only
for the Jewish people but for all free na-
tions, for all women and men of good will,
let us rededicate ourselves to the great
concepts of our prophets of human free-
dom and dignity and justice and the great
vision of
peace.
Mr. President, we shall go on working
for
peace with all our heart and all our
soul, because we yearn for it and want it.
And let us hope that the road for peace
will be reopened with your help, Mr.
President, as we said to each other just
a while ago.
And now, Mr. President, having heard
your most moving words, which we shall
never forget, I would like to conclude my
remarks with the following short, simple
statement: For freedom, for justice, for
human progress, and for human dignity,
let there be everlasting friendship between
the great United States of America and
the renewed State of Israel.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House at the
reception honoring Prime Minister and Mrs.
Begin and Jewish leaders.
814
