Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. It's good to see all of
you. It's nice to be home. I think this is
the first time I've been to Atlanta since
I was President.
REPORTER. Welcome back.
The President. Thank you.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 4:15 p.m.
Atlanta, Georgia
I thank you for it. I hope so far we
haven't disappointed you. And I pledge
that I'll try not to ever do it.
I think it showed a lot of things. I
won't go into all of them tonight because
I don't want to make another long speech,
but-[laughter]-but one of the things
that I know it indicated was that there's
a place in our free America for volun-
tary service, where you don't get paid in
money and quite often you don't get paid
in recognition even, but you get paid in
the satisfaction of having participated in
making decisions for the future of the
Remarks at a Reception for Georgia Campaign greatest country on Earth. And it also in-
Volunteers. January 20, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Rosalynn and I just ate
supper in what Omni International calls
the Carter Suite. [Laughter] It's the first
thing that was ever named after us, you
know, except maybe bank mortgages, and
so forth. And they've got a plaque up, it's
just as you go in, a big brass plaque about
this big, and it said that "Jimmy and
Rosalynn Carter and their family, sitting
in this suite on November 3, 1976, learned
that he was elected President of the
United States.” And as I read that plaque
and looked around the room, I remem-
bered the long evening and the fearful
wait. And I thought about a lot of things.
But at the top of my list of thoughts were
you, 900, maybe 1,000 volunteers who
came here to our headquarters in Atlanta
months and months and months ahead
of the time when the rest of the Nation
knew who I was or cared or thought that
I might possibly be President, and you
worked for me.
you
You didn't get paid for it. A lot of
worked all day long, 5 or 6 days a week,
because you had confidence in me and
because you wanted to see a better nation
and you wanted to see the South and the
country become one.
dicates that one person can make a dif-
ference.
It's a very difficult thing to leave
Plains, Georgia, 3 years ago—3 years ago
today—and to work for a whole year,
with your help, to enter the Iowa cau-
cuses 2 years ago yesterday, to be inau-
gurated President 1 year ago today, to
realize that when all of that occurred,
when all of it began, you were there.
There were people in our headquarters
and here tonight who were 9, 10, 11, 12
years old. There were people who had
full-time jobs, professionals who, after
working hours, came down and con-
tributed their time and their knowledge
and their experience and their thoughts
for the future.
There were college students who came
over from Georgia Tech and Georgia
State and from Atlanta University com-
plex, from Oglethorpe, to help us plan
for the future. There were housewives
who had families to care for, and there
were retired people, men and women who
were 65 or 75 or even 80 years old. And
that kind of a conglomerate group of
Georgians made the difference between
whether I won or whether I lost. And
I'm thankful to you that you were there,
154
