Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
always an allegation that the United
States didn't do its best to get a favorable
answer. So, it's been a very constructive
thing just to get direct negotiations begun.
I think the recognition by Egypt, pub-
licly, of Israel's right to exist, right to exist
permanently, right to exist in peace, is
very good. And the offer by President
Sadat that if a peace treaty can be worked
out, that there will be full peace and not
just a cessation of belligerency, is a step in
the right direction.
I think Prime Minister Begin has been
very forthcoming in receiving Sadat. His
proposal for self-rule on the West Bank,
Gaza Strip area, as presented to us here
around this table, was a step in the right
direction. So, we have some hopes there
that we'll be successful.
The vote on the Panama Canal treaties
will be, perhaps, the most important vote
that I will face during my own term of
office. A loss or rejection of the treaties
would be, I think, a very serious blow to
our Nation's interests. This is a patently
bipartisan effort. All the Joint Chiefs of
Staff who were appointed by Republican
Presidents, the past Republican Secre-
taries of State, as well as the Democratic
Secretaries of State, are for it, and the
business community is almost unanimously
for it. It's a difficult political question.
I think the news media has done an ex-
cellent job in explaining the reasons for
the treaties, arguments pro and con, effec-
tively to the public. Last year at this time
the Foreign Affairs Institute, using, I
think, George Gallup, showed only 8 per-
cent of people were for the treaties; I
think 70-something were against. The rest
were undecided.
And the recent Gallup poll showed that
a plurality for the first time was in favor of
the treaties, I think 45 to 42. That was
before my fireside chat. We are interested
to see whether we gained or lost support
as a result of my explanation to the people.
I've enjoyed this first year in office. It's
been, obviously, an exciting and challeng-
ing responsibility.
Our home life has been good and pleas-
ant. I think one of the best things that I
can do as President is to keep close rela-
tionships with the people throughout the
country. So, this initiation of a series of
meetings with you and others like you has
been very helpful to us.
One of the interesting things has been
that your questions, in my opinion, have
been much more substantive and perti-
nent in many instances than the ones I get
from the White House news correspond-
ents, because they are encaptured here in
the Washington environment and you
bring a fresh and a parochial approach.
And I use the word "parochial" in a posi-
tive way, because you initiate questions
that haven't and wouldn't ordinarily be
detected or initiated here in Washington.
I'd be glad to answer a few questions
now for you.
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
Q. Mr. President, Ray Rosenblum
from WMOA, in Marietta, Ohio. My
cousin, Jay Solomon,ยน encouraged me to
ask you this question. In view of the pro-
found economic hardships already suf-
fered in Ohio and the Northeast due to
killer blizzards and massive snows, what
do you think of expanding the statutory
definition of major disasters, as opposed to
the other definitions of major disasters, to
permit more Federal economic assistance
more rapidly to such hard-hit areas?
The President. My own experience in
the last number of months-we've had all
kinds of disasters-has been that the pres-
ent statutes are adequate. I think in the
1 General Services Administrator.
306
