Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 30
and Frankie Hewitt, executive producer of
Ford's Theatre.
Following the reception, the President and
Mrs. Carter and their guests attended a per-
formance at the theatre.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JANUARY 30, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. I have
two brief opening statements to make.
DOMESTIC PROGRAMS
The first one involves the major do-
mestic programs that we will pursue
in 1978. I would like to review briefly for
you my proposals for reforming the tax
system, for reducing taxes, for continuing
to reduce the unemployment rate, and for
preventing and controlling inflation.
These proposals are the centerpiece of
the administration's economic program
for 1978. Economic policy depends for its
success on a very careful balance between
different interests, between sometimes
conflicting national needs, between doing
too much on the one hand, doing too little
on the other. To modify one element of a
balanced plan can often destroy this bal-
ance and can aggravate our economic
problems.
I want to emphasize four elements of
our proposals that carefully preserve this
balance.
First, there's tax reductions. We pro-
pose a net tax reduction of $25 billion
designed to create almost a million new
jobs by the end of 1978. (The President
meant to say 1979.) ยน If they are enacted,
the economy should continue to grow at
a rate of about 42 to 5 percent, and un-
employment should fall below 6 percent
ยน Printed in the transcript.
by the end of next year. For the vast ma-
jority of taxpayers, these reductions will
offset the increase in rates that was neces-
sary to prevent bankruptcy of our social
security system. For 1978 there will be
three times as much tax reduction as there
is tax increase for the social security sys-
tem. And the same ratio, 3 to 1, will pre-
vail in 1979.
Second, our tax reform proposals allow
us to have an immediate tax reduction
while making substantial progress toward
comprehensive reform, a simpler and a
fairer tax system. Without these needed
reforms, we would not be able to afford
so large a tax reduction. They comprise
about $9 billion in savings, at the same
time providing equality and fairness.
Third is jobs. I've asked for over $700
million more in new funds for youth jobs
and, in addition, have asked the Congress
to continue the high level of public service
jobs for 1979, which is about twice as
much as a year ago. In addition, I will
shortly forward to the Congress a $400
million program to encourage private
businesses to hire the hardcore unem-
ployed. We are balancing the need for
public service jobs with the need for pri-
vate opportunities to reduce unemploy-
ment.
And fourth, inflation: Our program is
voluntary, requiring the cooperation of
government, business, labor, and all our
citizens. I've asked each group to hold its
increases in wages and prices below the
level that it averaged in increases for the
last 2 years.
This fair and flexible program and vol-
untary program will not stop inflation
overnight. But it's our best hope for bring-
ing it under control. We simply cannot
let inflation overtake us without taking
action.
In sum, we proposed an economic pro-
gram which is balanced. It will not please
everyone. As I said in my State of the
243
