May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
about the greatness of our country, and
particularly about the working people of
the United States.
And those are exactly the same people
who love and who are served so well by
Jennings Randolph. There's something
special about this man. This meeting or
rally was not even planned until about
10 days ago. But the fact that you have
come here from all over this great State,
traveling hundreds of miles to pay your
respects to a leader, is indicative of how
much you care about him. The former
majority leader of the U.S. Senate, Mike
Mansfield, said recently that Jennings
Randolph had touched the lives of more
Americans than any other United States
Senator who has ever served.
Senator Randolph's career has been
long and distinguished, but there's an-
other remarkable thing about him, and
that is he does not dwell in the past. And
I want to relate to you just a couple of
his accomplishments, which I believe
demonstrate his proven devotion to duty,
his tenacity when he faces obstacles in
the way of his doing a good service for
you and the other American people, and
his vision of the future.
In the depths of the Depression, which
I remember very well, and which all of
you remember too who are old enough,
Jennings Randolph sat down with a map
of the United States of America, and he
drew lines north and south and east and
west. He called his product, way back
then, the transcontinental super highway
super highway
system. And then he began to hold con-
gressional hearings.
It took 20 years for other Members of
Congress and the Presidents to realize
how badly our Nation needs a better road
system to take our goods to market and
let our people be bound together as visi-
tors, as friends, and as part of one great
national family.
We now have the Interstate Highway
System. And I drove in a few minutes ago
from the airport, and I realized that
every one of the Interstate Highway Sys-
tem roads built in West Virginia and in
Georgia, 90 percent of the cost was au-
thorized by Jennings Randolph's commit-
tee, and the original concept and idea was
originated in the mind of this great man.
But he's a modest man. He's not the
kind who would go around this State
saying, "I built you this road." He doesn't
try to claim credit for his great work.
But it would be a serious mistake for
those who live in this State and who are
going to make a decision this fall to for-
get what he's done for you and for us in
Georgia and throughout the Nation. And
this is the kind of quiet service that ought
to constantly be recognized.
Another example and I wish I had
time to go through a whole list, but I just
picked out two or three. In 1942 Jen-
nings Randolph introduced a proposed
amendment to the Constitution to ex-
tend the right to vote to young Ameri-
cans 18 years old. They were old enough
to fight and to give their lives for our
country, but for most Americans, even
enlightened Members of the House and
Senate, who were Democrats even, they
were not old enough to vote. But Jen-
nings Randolph, being a man whose
heart is young and who can see the value
of the future, said, "I think these young
people ought to have a right of citizen-
ship."
His amendment was not adopted that
year, but as is his nature, Jennings Ran-
dolph did not give up. He introduced this
proposal 11 different times, and each
time picked up a little more support be-
cause of his persistence and the depths of
his belief in young people.
And in 1970, the Congress finally
passed and then the States ratified the
1000
