June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
would be returned to the States propor-
tionate to their contribution. For project
purposes without vendible outputs (such
as flood control), the State financing
share would be 5%. There would be a cap
on State participation per project per
year of 14 of 1% of the State's general
revenues so that a small State would not
be precluded from having a very large
project located in it. Where project ben-
efits accrue to more than one State, State
contributions would be calculated ac-
cordingly, but if a benefiting State did
not choose to participate in cost-sharing,
its share could be paid by other partici-
pating States. This State cost-sharing
proposal would apply on a mandatory
basis to projects not yet authorized. How-
ever, for projects in the authorized back-
log, States which voluntarily enter into
these cost-sharing arrangements will
achieve expedited Executive Branch
consideration and priority for project
funding, as long as other project plan-
ning requirements are met. Soil Conser-
vation Service projects will be completely
exempt from this State cost-sharing
proposal.
-equalizing cost-sharing for structural
and non-structural flood control alterna-
tives. There is existing authority for 80%-
20% Federal/non-Federal cost-sharing
for non-structural flood control measures
(including in-kind contributions such as
land and easements). I will begin approv-
ing non-structural flood control projects
with this funding arrangement and will
propose that a parallel cost-sharing re-
quirement (including in-kind contribu-
tions) be enacted for structural flood
control measures, which currently have a
multiplicity of cost-sharing rules.
Another policy issue raised in Section
80 of P.L. 93-251 is that of the appro-
priate discount rate for computing the
present value of future estimated eco-
nomic benefits of water projects. After
careful consideration of a range of op-
tions I have decided that the currently
legislated discount rate formula is reason-
able, and I am therefore recommending
that no change be made in the current
formula. Nor will I recommend retro-
active changes in the discount rate for
currently authorized projects.
WATER CONSERVATION
Managing our vital water resources de-
pends on a balance of supply, demand and
wise use. Using water more efficiently is
often cheaper and less damaging to the
environment than developing additional
supplies. While increases in supply will
still be necessary, these reforms place em-
phasis on water conservation and make
clear that this is now a national priority.
In addition to adding the consideration
of water conservation to the Principles
and Standards, the initiatives I am taking
include:
• Directives to all Federal agencies
with programs which affect water supply
or consumption to encourage water con-
servation, including:
-making
appropriate
community
water conservation measures a con-
dition of the water supply and waste-
water treatment grant and loan pro-
grams of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, the Department of
Agriculture and the Department of
Commerce;
-integrating water conservation re-
quirements into the housing assist-
ance programs of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development,
the Veterans Administration and the
Department of Agriculture;
-providing technical assistance to
farmers and urban dwellers on how
to conserve water through existing
programs of the Department of Agri-
culture, the Department of Interior
and the Department of Housing and
Urban Development;
1048
