Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
on developing self-reliant villages and
communities.
The silent void of space may seem re-
mote from these challenges. But the intri-
cate electronics of a space satellite can be
as useful to earthbound farmers as a new
plow.
The Indian and American Govern-
ments will tomorrow exchange diplomatic
notes confirming that the United States
will program its Landsat Earth re-
sources satellite to transmit data directly
to a ground receiving station that India
will own and operate.
This satellite service will provide India
with comprehensive topographic and min-
erals information and timely data on the
ever-changing condition of weather, agri-
cultural, water, and other natural re-
sources. Under the terms of the agree-
ment, India will make available to neigh-
boring countries any information that
affects them.
Also, India has already reserved space
on board the American space shuttle in
1981 to initiate a domestic communica-
tions satellite system, using a satellite de-
signed to Indian specifications.
We are very pleased that our space
technology, together with India's superb
space communications capability, will
serve the cause of practical progress in
your country.
Our scholarly exchanges have already
enriched the lives of Americans who
par-
ticipated in them. And I hope the same
has been true of Indian participants. In
matters of culture and the arts, we know
how much we have to gain. Not only India
but also the rest of Asia and Africa and the
Middle East have much to offer us. I hope
to expand the opportunities for our own
citizens to appreciate and to enjoy the
strong and varied culture in the nations
of your part of the world.
In global politics, history has cast our
countries in different roles. The United
States is one of the so-called super powers;
India is the largest of the nonaligned
countries. But each of us respects the
other's conception of its international re-
sponsibilities, and the values that we do
share provide a basis for cooperation in
attacking the great global problems of eco-
nomic justice, human rights, and the pre-
vention of war.
This pursuit of justice and peace and
the building of a new economic order must
be undertaken in ways that promote con-
structive development rather than fruit-
less confrontation. Every country will suf-
fer if the North-South dialog is permitted
to founder.
Because India is both a developing
country and also an industrial power, you
are in a unique position to promote con-
structive international discussion about
trade, energy, investment, balance of pay-
ments, technology, and other questions. I
welcome your playing this worldwide
leadership role.
I know that there will be times when we
will disagree on specific issues and even on
general approaches to larger problems.
But I hope and believe that our shared
interests and our common devotion to
democratic values will help us to move
toward agreement on important global
and bilateral issues.
But neither of us seeks to align with
the other except in the pursuit of peace
and justice. We can even help each other
to alleviate differences which might exist
between ourselves and other nations.
Our two countries are part of a demo-
cratic world that includes nations in all
stages of development, from Sweden and
Japan to Sri Lanka and Costa Rica.
We share many common problems. But
we also share an obligation to advance
human rights not by interfering in the
affairs of other nations, not by trying to
deny other nations the right to choose
their own political and social system, but
9
