Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
prise, volunteers, neighborhood groups
who work together to revitalize that cen-
ter of growth and culture and exchange
of ideas. We believe that we need to at-
tract back to the central, deteriorating
parts of our cities new growth, new in-
vestment, new courage, new confidence
in the future.
We believe that American agriculture
ought to be strong, and we recognize that
it is the greatest single strategic advan-
tage that this country has over all others.
We are the breadbasket of the world, and
we're going to stay that way.
These issues are part and parcel of our
commitment to global peace, to prosper-
ity, not only for ourselves but for others:
where men and women might be free to
make their own decisions; where democ-
racy and democratic principles might be
enhanced; free markets might be guaran-
teed for the exchange of goods that we
ourselves as Americans exemplify; our
rededication to the United States Con-
stitution, its principles, and the Bill of
Rights. And as long as I'm in the White
House, our country will stand for the
pursuit without ceasing to establish and
to maintain basic human rights through-
out the whole world.
Now, I know that Democrats don't
always agree. We are sometimes a con-
tentious bunch. We always fight among
ourselves at times, and we probably
always will. But it's kind of a family fight.
Like families, we know how to kiss and
make up, and we also know how to
multiply. [Laughter]
I want to talk tonight, in wrapping up
my speech, about two basic issues, issues
that this Nation cannot afford to ignore:
energy and inflation. Energy is our most
urgent legislative priority, one in which
our very security as a nation is at stake.
And I'm going to go into it tonight in
some depth, because I have some points
I want to make to you. Inflation is our
most serious domestic problem at this
moment. Let me talk about inflation first.
The United States is not the only
nation struggling with this problem.
Nearly every country on Earth is battling
the twin problems-and they are inter-
related of inflation and unemployment.
And we are doing better than almost
anyone else.
We are beating down unemployment
in this country. We put more people back
to work in the first 18 months of this ad-
ministration than any other administra-
tion in United States history. There are
now 52 million more people holding jobs
today than there were 18 months ago.
And we intend to beat inflation, too,
and without sacrificing our steady growth
and our economic expansion. We will do
it without throwing people out of work.
We'll do it without sowing the seeds of
another severe recession. We're going to
put an end to the cycle of boom and bust
that has plagued the American eco-
nomy—American
nomy-American business, American
farmers, American consumers-for the
last decade or two.
To achieve our first objective, which is
to stop inflation from rising any further,
I've set some very tight limits on Gov-
ernment expenditures. We will reduce
Federal spending as a percentage of the
gross national product for the first time
in this generation.
We will continue to use personal and
corporate tax cuts to promote that eco-
nomic growth and investment so that we
can have a stable and a more prosperous
America.
It won't be easy. The administration
and the Congress will have to resist very
heavy pressure from strong interest
groups-highway contractors, defense
contractors, homebuilders, dambuilders,
even from farmers, educators, veterans,
local officials, State officials. I'm prepared
to use the full powers of my office-every
1169
