Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
better than foreigners could buy our
goods.
I think the difference was about a 3-
percent rate of growth. Because of the
more vigorous economies in some of our
foreign trading partners' countries this
year, that difference is certainly likely to
narrow.
Chancellor Schmidt told me that the
last quarter in 1977 in Germany the GNP
growth was 6 percent. This was higher
than he had anticipated, and he didn't
think that it was going to be maintained
constantly, but he was pleased with that.
So, I think those factors all point to the
very good strength of the dollar and, on a
long-term basis, it being fairly well priced,
compared to foreign currencies.
But any shocks to the market, any dis-
orderly marketing will require us to inter-
cede, and I will do so.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-seventh news
conference began at 3 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act of 1978
Remarks at the Bill Signing Ceremony.
March 10, 1978
The President. During the 1976 Presi-
dential campaign, one of the major issues
that came up throughout the Nation was
the subject of nonproliferation.
I think as recently as that, the world
had a general impression that it was too
late to control the proliferation of nuclear
explosives among countries that don't
presently have that capability, and at the
same time ensure the proper and adequate
use of atomic fuels for the production of
power and for other peaceful uses.
Last April, I presented a message to
Congress, who had long been working on
nonproliferation legislation. And I'm very
grateful today at the fine work that has
been done in the House by Chairman
Zablocki and by Congressmen Bingham,
Findley, and others, and in the Senate by
Senator Ribicoff, Percy, and Senator
Glenn.
This legislation takes a major step for-
ward in clarifying our own Nation's
policy. I think it would be a much more
predictable factor in the decisions made
by foreign nations. It will give guidance
to me, to the Congress, to the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and to the De-
partment of Energy and other agencies in
our Federal Government who deal with
this very sensitive subject.
We've now helped to organize, with the
assistance of our European allies, an In-
ternational Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation
study. Forty nations have already joined
in this study to inventory existing nuclear
fuels in the form of ore, both uranium,
thorium, and others, to assess the quality
and capability of enrichment facilities and
to deal with the proper distribution of nu-
clear fuels to those that don't have supplies
in their own country-with international
safeguards and constraints being ade-
quate; and at the same time, to deal with
the unsolved question of the disposition of
spent nuclear fuels.
This is one of the most complicated
questions that presents itself to the inter-
national community. I think it is accurate
to say that some of our friends abroad
will have to readjust their policy.
I've discussed them thoroughly with the
heads of state who have been here to visit
with me and whom I've gotten to know.
And I think they will see the wisdom of
the action that the Senate and the House
have taken in this legislation.
I feel very strongly that we should con-
tinue to use, in an increasing way, atomic
498
