May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
There's a borderline region where I
think the President ought to exert leader-
ship and authority, keeping the Congress
and the American people informed about
countries that are not democracies, that
might be socialistic in nature, but who
don't want to be dominated by the Soviet
Union or the Eastern bloc countries.
Some of them are already very good
friends of ours. For instance, we are pro-
hibited, except in the special circum-
stances, from giving any aid to Zambia.
President Kaunda was here this past
week. He's a very fine African leader
whose friendship we want. Tanzania is
another one. President Nyerere is one of
our good friends now. He wasn't 3
or 4 years ago. Another one that would
be an even more borderline case would
be Mozambique, with Machel being the
President.
I think that many of these African
leaders are very strongly nationalistic in
their attitude. They don't want to be
dominated by us or anyone else. But if
we are prevented from giving them any
aid of a peaceful nature, even food, then
they've got to turn somewhere else. And
it ties my hands too much. It might be
that when the Congress passes an amend-
ment like this on a foreign aid bill that
the reasons are sound, but then times
change. Maybe after a year or 2 years,
when that provision is still on the law
books, there might be different leaders
or different political circumstances there.
I can't act to deal with the changing cir-
cumstance.
I might say that this problem was
raised not by me with the Congress but
by congressional leaders with me. And I'm
not going to advocate any changes in
present law until we have thoroughly dis-
cussed it with the congressional leaders
in both Houses, both Democrats and Re-
publicans. But I am opposing any tightly
restraining amendments that are now be-
ing proposed by the Congress on the
foreign aid legislation that we are con-
sidering this year.
BARGE CANAL FEES
Q. Mr. President, if Congress sends
you a public works bill with fees on water-
way users at the level set by the Senate
recently, will you veto that bill, as Sec-
retary Adams said you would? And if so,
sir, what alternative solutions would you
propose for problems of Alton Lock and
Dam 26?
THE PRESIDENT. I would veto the
Senate-passed bill, yes. We asked the Con-
gress to impose water user fees so that
we might get back a part of the cost of
operating locks, dams, other very expen-
sive waterway facilities, and, also, to get
back part of the cost of the original capi-
tal investment.
In my opinion, at the present time, the
barge traffic has a major advantage over
other forms of transportation. Also, these
facilities, when they are modified or built
anew, cost very great sums of money. And
I believe that it's proper for the Congress
to pass a law that would let very modest
user fees be imposed so that those who do
use those facilities that are built by the
taxpayers all over the country at least
partially share in the cost of them. This
is the case with other forms of transporta-
tion. I think it ought to be the case with
water user fees as well.
U.S. FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, I suppose most of
these restrictions that were written into
the law were written with the idea of
keeping the United States from becoming
bogged down in another Vietnam. And I
wonder, sir, do you see a comparison in
the choices you now face and the choices
that were faced by President Kennedy
and President Johnson back in those early
days when we began to get in just a little
ways and then more and more came on?
976
