Apr. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
themselves. Warnings about future short-
ages have apparently very little effect on
the Congress or the public.
We have had some reduction in the
rate of growth of energy consumption this
year, and obviously our imports have
dropped off somewhat with the increased
influx of oil from Alaska.
We've done a great deal through Ex-
ecutive order of my own, and also among
the top officials in the executive branch of
National Government, in cutting down
both the size of automobiles, and we cut
drastically on the number of automobiles
that are available and used. And we've
also increased gasoline efficiency by man-
datory law passed by the Congress and
also by eliminating the large number of
chauffeur-driven automobiles that were
formerly used by literally hundreds of top
executive officials. Those have been cut
down to bare bones.
But I don't think I can answer your
question any better than that. When lines
are backed up at gas stations, at service
stations, the public believes there's a need
to conserve. When the lines disappear,
then they don't believe it any longer.
But I believe that in the long run, that
the legal restraints that have been placed
on automobile efficiency will pay rich
dividends. And the passage of the energy
legislation that I have proposed to the
Congress will be another major step for-
ward, even in the absence of demonstra-
ble shortages that work a deprivation on
our public.
OIL SALES TO JAPAN
Q. Mr. President, Bob Thompson,
Seattle Post-Intelligencer. We heard two
officials of your administration this morn-
ing suggest there's renewed talk about
selling Alaskan crude oil to Japan. Do you
favor such a policy? What will the impact
be on our energy crisis, and would you
propose it to Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't made
any decision on that proposal, which has
been, I think, an historic one. It's a repet-
itive kind of proposal that originates from
a lot of sources, and it's been given re-
newed life by the fact that now we have,
with the Alaskan oil shipments to the
west coast, a glut of oil in the California
area.
Our own preference is that the Sohio
line should be expedited, with its comple-
tion to bring California and Alaskan oil
into the Texas area for refining and fur-
ther distribution, and also that we expe-
dite the completion of a gasline that
would originate in your part of the coun-
try, heading east, to serve the Midwest.
The proposal about transferring oil either
from California, the heavy crude, to
Japan or to transfer some of the Alaskan
crude to Japan is not one that's been
proposed to me.
PRESIDENT'S RELATIONSHIP WITH
WESTERN STATES
Q. Mr. President, the West was one of
the areas where you and Vice President
Mondale did least well in the Presidential
election, and I think opinion polls show
that if the election were held again now,
you might not get any more votes. Do you
anticipate any difficulty for your party
this year? Do you anticipate doing better
or worse, should you run for reelection?
And are there any policies that you are
designing to improve your standing in the
West?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the re-
cent polls the only one I've seen lately
is Harris poll that shows that on a nation-
wide basis, I would do better now than I
did against Ford, because it was a very
close vote, as you know. I think I had a
6 or 7 point lead over Ford in a hypothet-
ical race, and only had 1 or 2 percent
when I actually won. I think that it's al-
most inevitable that the Democratic
810
