Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
Portland, Oregon
Remarks at a Reception for Community
Leaders. May 4, 1978
Governor Straub and Mayor Gold-
schmidt, Congressman Bob Duncan and
Jim Weaver, distinguished ladies and
gentlemen, and my friends from the great
State of Oregon:
I've enjoyed being in your State every
time I've come. You've always received
me with open arms and open hearts, and
even when I was almost completely un-
known and struggling almost by myself,
looking for friends, you gave me a chance
to cook hotcakes and to serve them, with
Bob Straub, and we came within just a
few votes of carrying Oregon, which will
always be gratifying to me.
I was pleased to have a chance to con-
duct a regional press conference a few
minutes ago. They always bring up the
polls, and they always bring up the econ-
omy. One thing I've found is every time
our poll rating goes down, the stock
market goes up. [Laughter] So maybe I've
found a way to solve the economic prob-
lems of our country.
This has been a very delightful trip. I
was in Denver for an afternoon and the
following morning. We made a major
announcement on the enhancement of
solar energy in our country. One of the
major centers for the Nation will be there,
as you know, in the Golden area, and we
also know that Portland will be a major
regional center, as well, for the develop-
ment of solar power.
We've got a wonderful opportunity
this year, in these early stages of my own
administration, to work out some good
policies that have long been neglected.
Denver faces serious problems that you
don't face. They have the highest air pol-
lution rate in Denver of any city in our
country; the most automobiles per capita.
Is a matter of fact, their carbon monox-
ide rate is three times higher than the
maximum Federal standards permit.
And we tried to launch, with 41 differ-
ent Federal agencies, a concerted effort
there to bring down this very serious prob-
lem of particulates and carbon monoxide,
hydrocarbons, sulfur oxides, in that one
beautiful city of our country. The essence
of it is that the Federal Regional Council,
my own staff in the White House, every
Federal agency involved, the mayor of
that city, Denver, the Governor, worked
in concert with the congressional delega-
tion to solve a serious problem.
We did the same thing last year in deal-
ing with what was the crisis, as you re-
member, 16 months ago, 12 months ago,
and that was the extremely high unem-
ployment rate in our country. It was about
8 percent. We brought it down now to
just a little above 6 percent. We added a
net of 4.1 million jobs in the country, an
unprecedented achievement. The Con-
gress, I, many of you, worked in harmony.
These problems are difficult to solve.
There are no easy answers. The Govern-
ment can't do everything. And I think
the beauty of the efforts that I've just
described to you, those two examples, are
that the private sector of our economy,
with government at all levels, work to-
just individual citizens, business, labor,
gether on a common problem.
You've got a wonderful city here,
wonderful State. The beauty has never
been in danger. And I know that you
have natural resources and an intense in-
terest in international affairs because of
your foreign trade, one of the finest sea-
ports in the world, and a lot to be thank-
ful for in your great State. You've got
some wonderful public officials to take
care of your needs.
A little over a month ago, after 14
months of hard work, I announced a
comprehensive urban policy for our Na-
tion; one of the most difficult and intran-
853
