Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
integrity in Africa and encouraging Afri-
cans to resolve their own problems.
There was also an extensive discussion
of South Asia. The President reaffirmed
the United States policy of support for the
independence and development of all the
states in the region, a goal which the
Prime Minister shares. The Prime Minis-
ter discussed recent developments in rela-
tions among the South Asian nations.
The President concluded by expressing
his great pleasure at the strengthening of
his personal ties with the Prime Minister.
They stated that these ties are valuable in
maintaining the longstanding and close
relationship between our two countries
and agreed to continue the bilateral
dialog through future meetings and cor-
respondence, as well as through regular
consultations between officials of both
governments.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JUNE 14, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I have two brief statements to make
before I answer questions.
ARMS EMBARGO AGAINST TURKEY
The most immediate and urgent foreign
policy decision to be made by the cur-
rent legislative session is in lifting the arms
embargo against Turkey. The points that
the Congress intended to underscore 3
years ago, when the embargo was im-
posed, have all been made, but now the
embargo is not contributing to a settle-
ment of the Cyprus dispute, nor is it help-
ing to improve our relationship with our
allies, Turkey and Greece. It's driven a
wedge between those two countries and
has weakened the cohesiveness and the
readiness of NATO. It's thereby harmed
our own national security interests in the
eastern Mediterranean, an area which is
crucial to the defense of the southern flank
of Europe, and also our own access and
that of others to the Middle East.
It's important to implement an effective
policy in this area of the eastern Mediter-
ranean-Greece, Turkey, Cyprus area.
We have three purposes, all of which are
equally important: first, to serve U.S. and
NATO security interests, as well as the
security interests of Greece and Turkey as
nations; second, to improve the relation-
ship between Greece and Turkey; and
third, to facilitate progress toward a
Cyprus settlement.
I'm asking the Congress to support me
in enacting the full program, which, in
addition to removing the embargo against
arms sales to Turkey, provides for military
sales credits to both Turkey and to Greece,
provides for economic aid to Turkey, and
provides further funds for relief and re-
habilitation for refugees in Cyprus.
Both Greece and Turkey are valuable
friends and allies of our own. Lifting the
embargo is essential to our hopes for peace
and stability in the eastern region of the
Mediterranean. And I hope that the
American people and the Congress will
give me their support in the realization of
U.S. interests in this critical area of the
world.
INFLATION AND FEDERAL SPENDING
The domestic issue that I would like to
pursue is that of inflation. Last week I em-
phasized how important it is to hold the
line on Federal budget expenditures as a
series of appropriations bills are con-
sidered by the Congress during the next
few weeks.
I cannot make this point too strongly,
nor repeat it too often, because much of
1091
