Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and equipment for use in public transpor-
tation services and the payment of operat-
ing expenses, including commuter rail
operating expenses.
Funds will be apportioned by formula
and the federal share for capital projects
will be eighty percent. The highway
formula will be based on urbanized area
population. Up to fifty percent of the
urban highway funds may be transferred
to the Primary program or to the small
urban and rural program. Up to fifty per-
cent of the transit funds may be trans-
ferred to the highway program. Highway
funds will continue to be available for
transit capital projects.
Governors and local officials will be
required to designate a recipient or re-
cipients for urban highway funds in
urbanized areas with a population of one
million or more. By this step we will sig-
nificantly improve the opportunity for
large cities to become more involved in
the planning and programming of their
highway systems. Urban highway funds
for areas with small populations will go to
the State.
Urban Discretionary Grant
This transit grant program will be
focused on major expansion of bus fleets
and new fixed guideway projects, includ-
ing extensions of existing systems, and
joint development projects.
Small Urban and Rural Formula Grant
To meet the unique needs of small cities
and rural communities, we propose a con-
solidated grant program for highways and
transit for all areas with a population be-
low 50,000, with the state as the recipient.
Nine categorical highway programs will
be consolidated into this new program,
and all public roads not on the Interstate
or primary systems will be eligible for
assistance. The new program will provide
assistance for both capital and operating
expenses for public transportation in
small urban and rural communities. Au-
thorization for this program would come
out of the Highway Trust Fund, but the
Trust Fund would be reimbursed out of
the General Fund for transit operating
expenses.
Safety Program
To allow more flexible and rational use
of funds, six highway safety programs will
be consolidated into a single safety grant
to states, with the federal share at eighty
percent.
Bridge Program
For the first time states will be able to
use substantially increased funds for re-
habilitation as well as replacements of
deteriorating bridges. The federal share
will be eighty percent, and up to thirty
percent of the funds will be available for
bridges not on the federal-aid highway
systems.
Authorizations
The proposed authorizations are de-
signed to permit better long-term plan-
ning by those responsible for both
highway and transit development. The
Highway Trust Fund will be extended for
an additional 4 years. The formula grant
programs will be authorized for a four-
year period, and the urban discretionary
grant program will be authorized for a
five-year period.
In proposing the reforms contained in
this legislation I recognize the critical
relationship between transportation, en-
ergy and development in urban and rural
areas. I believe that these proposals will
lead toward energy conservation and
better land use. The enactment of this
legislation will bring new opportunities
and responsibilities to State and local offi-
222
