Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
is very crucial, and Steve has now worked
himself up to a seniority position so he
can be exceptionally effective, now and in
the future.
I'd like to also acknowledge the pres-
ence of two members of my Cabinet, Sec-
retary of Defense Harold Brown, and
your own Juanita Kreps, Secretary of
Commerce.
To Georgia and to North Carolina, the
most important, perhaps, Member in the
Congress is the chairman of the Senate
Agriculture Committee. He takes care of
tobacco farmers; he takes care of peanut
farmers, important to both Georgia and
North Carolina. And I'm very honored
today to have with us my own United
States Senator, Herman Talmadge.
I won't acknowledge the presence of
every distinguished guest here today, but
I would like to say that I'm pleased
that several of North Carolina's great
Members of Congress have chosen to
come to honor me by their presence-
Charlie Whitly, Richardson Preyer, Bill
Hefner, Lamar Gudger. Would you stand
up, please, gentlemen? Please stand up.
Thank you very much.
Charlie, I believe that you and Bob
Morgan are alumni of Wake Forest. Is
that not correct? I know the Wake Forest
people are glad to have you back.
Well, I'd like to say that this is a re-
markably great honor for me. This is a
great college, and it's a time in our Na-
tion's history when we need to stop and
assess our past, our present, and our
future.
I've noticed the statistics in North
Carolina that shows that under my own
administration-because of your work,
not mine-there's been remarkable eco-
nomic progress.
In the State of North Carolina, the
unemployment rate, for instance, last
year, dropped 2.3 percent. You now have
an extraordinarily low unemployment
rate of only 42 percent. This shows not
only that our Nation is strong but the
North Carolina people want to work. And
when they are given a chance, they do
work. And I thank you for that.
A hundred and ninety-eight years ago,
in the southern part of your State, 400
North Carolina militiamen took up arms
in our own War of Independence. Against
a force of 1,300 British soldiers, the North
Carolinians prevailed, and their battle
at Ramsour's Mill became a step on the
road to victory at Yorktown 1 year later.
Your ancestors in North Carolina and
mine in Georgia and their neighbors
throughout the Thirteen Colonies earned
our freedom in combat. That is a sacrifice
which Americans have had to make time
and time again in our Nation's history.
We've learned that strength is the final
protector of liberty.
This is a commitment and a sacrifice
that I understand well, for the tradition
of military service has been running deep
for generations in my own family. My
first ancestor to live in Georgia, James
Carter, who moved there from North
Carolina, fought in the Revolution. My
father was a first lieutenant in World
War I. My oldest son volunteered to go
to Vietnam. And I spent 11 years of my
life as a professional military officer in
the United States Navy. This is typical
of American families.
Down through the generations, the
purposes of our Armed Forces have
always been the same, no matter what
generation it was: to defend our security
when it's threatened and, through dem-
onstrated strength, to reduce the chances
that we will have to fight again.
These words of John Kennedy will still
guide our actions, and I quote him, “The
purpose of our arms is peace, not war-
to make certain that they will never have
to be used."
530
