Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
tries of all kinds throughout our Nation
and throughout the world, indeed, just
a few decades ago.
But because of the extremely and arti-
ficially cheap fossil fuels, the use of solar
power has become a system honored by
disuse. It's been forgotten. But now
that the price of oil, gas, coal, nuclear are
going up rapidly and inevitably, the time
has now come for the second solar age.
And I believe today, Sun Day, in Colo-
rado is a good time to launch this new
commitment which I, myself, as Presi-
dent, will honor, working with people like
Floyd Haskell, whom you've come to
honor tonight.
In closing, let me say that it's not an
accident that the first loan program to
permit homeowners to purchase a solar
system for their own places of residence
was initiated by Floyd Haskell. It is no
coincidence that when energy legislation
was being prepared, the tax credits being
expanded to include passive solar heat-
ing systems and wind power was pursued
and introduced by Floyd Haskell.
It's no coincidence that for years, 5
years, in service in the Senate, a leading
structive criticism of my friend, Floyd
Haskell.
In many ways, he's a national treasure,
and I know that you've come here to-
night to let your voice be added to many
others in support of him. But I can tell
you this: This is not going to be an easy
election year for Floyd Haskell nor for
other Democrats in this country. It's
going to take more than a quiet expres-
sion of support at a very inexpensive
fundraising event like this. It is going to
take days of hard work and dedication,
even sacrifice of your own time, your own
effort, your own influence and your own
finances. And I hope as he's worked
and sacrificed for you for the last 5 years,
that you will do the same thing for him.
during the next few months. If you do,
Colorado will be blessed again and so will
the United States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:44 p.m. at
the Currigan Exhibition Center. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Sheila Kowal, chair-
man of the Colorado Democratic Party.
proponent and a constant battler for re- Denver, Colorado
search funds for solar power was Floyd
Haskell.
This proves to you that day by day,
month by month, year by year, not just on
election year, he has fought for and
worked for the things that are important
to the people of Colorado.
I'd like to add one adjective in addi-
tion to what the farmer mentioned
this afternoon, and that is that he's
strong and independent. When he dis-
agrees with me as President, he never
hides that disagreement from me or from
the world. And I've benefited greatly
as a new President, a new student of
Washington political life, from the calm
and sound advice and counsel and con-
Remarks at the Governor's Annual Prayer
Breakfast. May 4, 1978
Governor Dick Lamm and other politi-
cal and professional leaders of Colorado,
leaders in God's church, fellow citizens of
a country that has been blessed by God
with riches of all kinds, giving us a sense
of self-worth which, perhaps, we do not
deserve, and a growing sense that these
blessings of God may have been appreci-
ated too little and cared for with disdain
or neglect:
When I was a small boy, there was a
story that was always told about a man
who was plowing in the field behind a
mule, and he was very tired of this pro-
829
