Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 15
the equitable operation of the global
economic system.
The President and the Prime Minister
expressed satisfaction on the progress of
discussions between the two governments
on joint projects in agricultural research,
extension and education. They also wel-
comed the progress made on the design
of joint projects in the area of solar tech-
nology and expressed the hope that they
would be speedily implemented.
Prime Minister Desai met with mem-
bers of the House of Representatives and
the Senate. The talks showed a mutual
desire to deepen understanding between
the two countries and peoples.
The President and Prime Minister ex-
pressed their satisfaction at the results of
their talks and agreed to continue the bi-
lateral dialogue through future meetings
and correspondence as well as through
regular official-level consultations and
within the India-U.S. Joint Commission.
Prime Minister Desai also visited New
York, California, and Nebraska.
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Upper
Volta. He would replace Pierre R. Gra-
ham, who has resigned.
Boyatt was born March 4, 1933, in
Cincinnati. He received a B.A. from
Princeton University in 1955 and an
M.A. from Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy in 1956. He served in the
U.S. Air Force from 1956 to 1959.
Boyatt joined the Foreign Service in
1960 and was posted in Antofagasta,
Luxembourg, and Nicosia, was detailed
to the Treasury Department, and took
Greek language training. In 1970 and
1971, he was Special Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary of State for Near
Eastern and South Asian Affairs.
From 1972 to 1974, Boyatt was Coun-
try Director for Cyprus at the State De-
partment. He was in the senior seminar
in foreign policy at the State Department
in 1974 and 1975. Since 1975 he has been
Prime Minister Desai expressed his Deputy Chief of Mission in Santiago.
warm thanks to President Carter for the
friendly and hospitable reception ex-
tended to him throughout his visit which
is the natural expression of the friendship
and shared values of the American and
Indian peoples. He was particularly
pleased that his tour took him to both
coasts of the United States and included
the opportunity to visit a working farm
in the American mid-West.
United States Ambassador
to Upper Volta
Nomination of Thomas D. Boyatt.
June 15, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Thomas D. Boyatt, of
Cincinnati, Ohio, to be Ambassador Ex-
New York City
Financing Legislation
Statement on Action by the Senate Banking
Committee. June 15, 1978
Today's action by the Senate Banking
Committee represents an historic junc-
ture along New York City's path to eco-
nomic recovery and financing self-suffici-
ency. When we first proposed guarantees
last winter, the prevailing view was that
such legislation could never be enacted.
Today's vote reflects national support for
the city and the commitment of the
Banking Committee to approve a respon-
sible and permanent solution to the city's
problem.
1109
