Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
countries, but there is also the favorable
judgment in the eyes of the people of
France for the generous action that you
have undertaken. Your desire for ideal-
ism in the international responsibilities of
your country is something which is very
akin to the views and feelings of the
French people. And I am quite convinced
that, thanks to our conversations and our
meetings, we will be able to work fruit-
fully together for the understanding and
peace and progress of the world.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:35 a.m. at
Orly International Airport.
Earlier in the day, the President met with
President Giscard d'Estaing at Elysee Palace.
As printed above, this item follows the text
of the White House press release.
Brussels, Belgium
Remarks of the President and King Baudouin I
at the Welcoming Ceremony. January 6, 1978
THE KING. Mr. President, with great joy
I am welcoming you and Mrs. Carter to
Belgium for the first time in your capacity
as President of the United States of
America. You have, of course, visited our
country before as the Governor of your
home State.
This is the final stage of your long but
rapid tour of four continents just at the
beginning of the year 1978, which you
have described as of capital importance.
The many conversations you have had
during the tour bear witness to your
heavy responsibilities in the construction
of a freer and more peaceful world. The
list of countries on your program is by it-
self evidence of your concern for drawing
international relations closer and for solv-
ing the problems that are causing the
greatest difficulties at the present time.
Your stay in Brussels, the headquarters
of the Atlantic Alliance and the seat of
the European Communities, obviously re-
flects your desire further to confirm your
friendship and cooperation with the
member countries of those organizations.
By taking your inspiration from the es-
sential human values which, as you have
said, make life worth living, you have pro-
moted a universal awareness of the im-
portance of human rights. You are re-
sponding to the great challenges of our
time, whether political or economic, na-
tional or worldwide, with courage and
determination.
Two months ago you received Mr. Tin-
demans and Mr. Simonet¹ at Washing-
ton in their two-fold capacities as mem-
bers of the Belgian Government and
spokesmen for the European Communi-
ties. The discussions held in your Capital
City have greatly encouraged us, since
they led to the conclusion that, in spite
of the difficulties caused by the world
prices, you remained opposed to the easy
way out, namely, protectionism.
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, welcome to
Belgium. May your all too brief presence
here be fruitful.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Majesties, peo-
ple of the great nation of Belgium:
I am delighted to be back in your great
country to renew my friendship with
Prime Minister Tindemans and to have
an opportunity to meet with Your Royal
Highness, King Baudouin, and Queen
Fabiola.
President Mondale visited when he toured
Brussels was the first city which Vice
the nations of our traditional allies just
1 year ago, and now it is the last stop
that I will make before I return to the
United States.
First and last, our purpose has been the
same-to reaffirm in times of rapid change
our unchanging faith in allies like your
great country and people.
¹ Leo Tindemans, Belgian Prime Minister
and President of the Council of the European
Communities, and Henri Simonet, Belgian For-
eign Minister and Deputy Chairman of the
Commission of the European Communities.
32
