Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
the same time, they would make the Fed-
eral work place a better environment for
Federal employees. I ask the Congress to
act promptly on Civil Service Reform and
the Reorganization Plan which I will
shortly submit.
The White House,
March 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Meeting With Kenyan
Delegation
White House Statement. March 2, 1978
President Carter and a group of his
senior advisers had discussions this morn-
ing with the Kenyan delegation headed
by Vice President Daniel arap Moi. They
discussed the situation in the Horn of
Africa and Kenyan-U.S. relations. Presi-
dent Carter reaffirmed the U.S. Govern-
ment's longstanding policy of close sup-
port for Kenya and assured the Kenyans
that the United States will continue to
supply Kenya with economic and military
assistance. Both countries share a deep
concern for the conflicts which have de-
veloped in the Horn of Africa. Measures
which could be taken to bring the conflict
to an end were discussed, and it was
found that Kenyan and American per-
ceptions of the fundamental problems of
the area are very similar.
United Nations
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Transmitting a Report.
March 2, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chair-
man:)
In accordance with Section 503 of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 1978, I am pleased to submit
to the Congress a report on recommen-
dations for reform of the United Nations.
Also enclosed is a detailed analysis of
various reform proposals provided to me
by the Secretary of State.
I assumed the Presidency with a com-
mitment to strengthen this essential in-
strument of world peace and U.S.
diplomacy. I now reaffirm that the United
States will make the fullest possible use
of the United Nations to assist in solving
the many political, economic, legal, and
humanitarian problems that press upon
the international community.
At the same time, I am aware of the
need to maintain constant attention to
reform of the UN. This report contains a
number of positive proposals for reform
that this Administration intends to pur-
sue.
I welcome this opportunity to commu-
nicate with you on these issues, and I ap-
preciate the Congress permitting a one-
month delay in submission of this report.
I value highly the work of the Congress
in support of U.S. participation in the
United Nations, and look forward to a
continuation of that cooperative en-
deavor.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker
of the House of Representatives, and John J.
Sparkman, chairman of the Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations.
On the same day, the White House issued
the following statement on the report:
The President today sent to the Speaker
of the House of Representatives and to the
chairman of the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations of the Senate a report entitled "Reform
and Restructuring of the United Nations Sys-
tem." In the report, the President called the
United Nations an "essential instrument of
world peace and U.S. diplomacy" but pro-
posed a number of concrete steps for the U.S.
Government to pursue in order to make the
U.N. system more effective in the future.
449
