Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 2, 1978
Hubert H. Humphrey
Fellowship in Social and
Political Thought
Statement on Signing H.R. 10392 Into
Law. May 30, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law a bill
which, in a unique way, will keep alive
the courageous vision of Hubert Hum-
phrey, not only in our Nation's Capital
but throughout the world.
It is fitting that the University of Min-
nesota should have already taken the lead
in establishing the Hubert H. Humphrey
School of Public Affairs, an institution
that will benefit and inspire younger
Americans for many generations to come
with Senator Humphrey's vision of com-
passionate government for this Republic.
This bill has a different purpose. It
creates a living memorial right here in
Washington. Instead of erecting yet an-
other granite or marble edifice, the Con-
gress has seen fit to establish a fellowship
which will be awarded each year to a dif-
ferent person-from this Nation or from
abroad-who best symbolizes the Hum-
phrey vision, who will be honored not only
for achievement in social and political
thought but who will, through dedication
to the process of free inquiry, contribute
in Washington to our national debate on
the issues confronting us.
It is right that the Woodrow Wilson In-
ternational Center for Scholars should be
the home for the Humphrey fellowship
and lectures, since Hubert Humphrey was
the founding Chairman of its Board of
Trustees.
It gives me great pleasure to establish
the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship at
the Woodrow Wilson International Cen-
ter for Scholars. I am convinced the Hum-
phrey fellows and lecturers will pass on
the legacy of Hubert Humphrey to future
times.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10392 is Public Law
95-286, approved May 26.
North Atlantic Alliance Summit
Remarks at the Opening Ceremonies.
May 30, 1978
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, Ex-
cellencies, members of the Council, and
distinguished guests:
On behalf of the people of the United
States, I welcome here today our closest
friends and allies, the leaders of the North
Atlantic Alliance.
1011
