Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
What differences are there in this situa-
tion than what they faced?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think
there's any comparison at all. In my opin-
ion, if President Johnson, President
Nixon, President Eisenhower, Kennedy
were in office now, having experienced
the Vietnam war, they would be very cau-
tious and very careful not to become in-
volved again militarily, and I have that
deep feeling myself. We are talking here
about the kinds of amendments that I de-
scribed to Wes Pippert a few minutes
ago, an amendment that says we cannot
either give any aid or even vote in the
World Bank Board of Directors for a loan
to a foreign country, just because their
form of government might be different
from ours or because they've had some
past or even present human rights viola-
tions or even because they produce com-
petitive crops that might be competing
with crops grown in the United States.
And there's a trend in Congress that is
building up that puts too much constraint
on a President to deal with rapidly chang-
ing circumstances. We do not want to
send military forces into Africa to meet
the challenge of Soviet and Cuban intru-
sion. The Soviets and Cubans are eager to
give either military aid, and even the So-
viets send Cuban troops into a country to
fight.
We don't want to do that at all, but if
we can't even give a shipment of wheat
or give a sound commercial loan or vote
for a loan by the World Bank to that
same people or that same country, it
means that I can't compete at all, even
peacefully, with the Soviet or Cuban mili-
tary action in those countries. That's what
concerns me very deeply.
I might say that it's not just my con-
cern. I had a long conversation yesterday
with President Ford. He, I think, perhaps
is at least as deeply concerned as I am,
and the congressional leaders share this
same concern.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, when you were in
field and other places that if you were
Illinois campaigning, you said in Spring-
elected, we could depend on your doing
something about inflation. And now we
hear we're going to get a 9.3 for April
and maybe the same for May. I wonder,
sir, if you cannot control it, what political
consequences will be to you and, secondly,
would you consider taking a $20,000-a-
year pay cut as suggested as a symbol for
the Nation by Arthur Burns? 2
THE PRESIDENT. I don't remember Mr.
Burns volunteering to take a pay cut when
I was in Government. [Laughter] We
have imposed zero increase on all execu-
tive pay in the Federal Government in the
executive branch. The Congress is now
considering imposing the same zero in-
Congress and members of the judiciary as
crease in high-level pay for Members of
well. I think that's well-advised.
It's obvious to me, looking back his-
torically, that a year ago or 16 months
ago, the primary concern in our country
was unemployment. But my goal has been,
as President, to bring down both unem-
ployment and inflation. Last year we ex-
inflation
perienced about a 6-percent
rate-6, 62 percent. Now our projections
for this year are that it might be 6½ or
7 percent. I think the 9 percent that you
referred to is a temporary aberration
brought about primarily by high food
costs because of bad weather.
We are doing everything we can now to
cut down the rate of inflation, short of
wage and price controls, which I do not
ever intend to impose, barring a national
calamity. And we've gotten good support
so far from some of the major business
leaders and the labor leaders, as well.
General Motors, for instance, A.T. & T.
have already publicly announced that they
Former Chairman of the Board of Direc-
tors, Federal Reserve System.
977
