June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing the percentage of territory that they
would be prepared to transfer to the
Greek Cypriot side on the grounds that
this would deprive them of the negotiating
flexibility they were seeking to preserve.
While this territorial proposal is not as
concrete as some would have hoped, it
does represent an advance in that for the
first time the Turkish Cypriots have
clearly agreed to sit at the table and dis-
cuss territorial concessions. In a separate
proposal on Varosha (New Famagusta),
the Turkish Cypriots indicated that they
would be prepared to permit Greek
Cypriot inhabitants to return to their
homes and properties in the city, which is
now almost totally uninhabited but be-
hind the Turkish line.
The Government of Cyprus has justified
its rejection of the Turkish Cypriot pro-
posals on the grounds that they provide
not for the creation of a federation, as
called for in the Makarios-Denktash un-
derstanding of February 1977, but rather
for partition of the island into two sepa-
rate states. Clearly there is a broad con-
ceptual gap between the two sides on the
constitutional issue. A second Greek
Cypriot contention is that the April 13
proposals envisage the return of only a
very small portion of the territory of the
Republic of Cyprus to Greek Cypriot con-
trol and that Greek Cypriot resettlement
of Varosha under Turkish Cypriot admin-
istration would be unacceptable.
The Turks and Turkish Cypriots have
repeatedly stressed both in public and in
private that they are fully prepared to be
flexible and to negotiate in earnest once
the talks are reconvened. They have un-
derscored that the April 13 proposals
represent only a starting-point and should
not be construed as the final Turkish
Cypriot position. Recently, more substan-
tial indications of Turkish flexibility have
emerged. In a press conference in Bonn on
May 11 Prime Minister Ecevit gave assur-
ances that the political framework of
Varosha is open to negotiation; the Turks
have authoritatively stated that as many
as 35,000 Greek Cypriots will be allowed
to return to Varosha; and they have spec-
ified that this return can commence as
soon as the talks are resumed. At the same
time, however, the Turkish side has made
it clear that no new proposals will be de-
veloped in advance of actual negotiations,
which they have called upon Secretary
General Waldheim to schedule without
further delay.
On May 2 Secretary General Waldheim
issued a statement noting that a significant
gap continued to exist between the two
Cypriot parties and announcing his in-
tention to hold further consultations in
order to clarify their positions regarding
a resumption of the negotiating process.
The Secretary General has recently met
with President Kyprianou and Turkish
Cypriot leader Denktash as well as with
Prime Ministers Ecevit and Caramanlis.
We understand that Special United Na-
tions Representative on Cyprus Galindo
Pohl will be undertaking further consul-
tations in the area.
On May 22 Turkish Cypriot leader
Denktash issued a statement which clari-
fied and to a certain extent reformulated
the Turkish Cypriot position on resump-
tion of the intercommunal talks. This was
in many respects a positive and encourag-
ing statement. First, Mr. Denktash re-
affirmed Turkish Cypriot readiness to
enter into "sustained, intensive good-faith
negotiations" with the Greek Cypriots,
and he noted that he had made a commit-
ment to Secretary General Waldheim to
enter into these negotiations "with an
open mind and in a spirit of conciliation
and flexibility." Second, with respect to
1152
