Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 17
Sloan to be Commissioners of the Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission.
King, 37, served as Special Assistant to
the Chairman of the Federal Election
Commission from 1975 to 1977. She was
vice president of the Center for Public
Financing of Elections from 1973 to 1975
and Washington director of the National
Committee for an Effective Congress
from 1967 to 1973. She is presently work-
ing toward a J.D. at Catholic University
Law School in Washington.
Sloan, 39, is director of the Office of
Consumer Protection of the District of
Columbia. She was executive director of
the National Committee on Household
Employment from 1969 to 1976. She was
with the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights
from 1965 to 1968 and with HARYOU-
ACT Project Uplift in New York City in
1965. She was a delegate to the National
Black Economic Caucus in 1975. She
holds a J.D. from Catholic University.
The President also announced that he
will renominate R. David Pittle for reap-
pointment as a Commissioner of the Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission. Pittle
was nominated for the position on Octo-
ber 31, 1977, but was not confirmed before
the Senate adjourned.
Interstate Commission on the
Potomac River Basin
Appointment of Joseph D. Gebhardt as a
Member. January 17, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Joseph D. Gebhardt, of
Bethesda, Md., as a member of the
Interstate Commission on the Potomac
River Basin. He replaces Carl P. Croas-
dale, resigned.
Gebhardt, 31, is an associate with the
Washington public interest law firm of
Dobrovir, Oakes, Gebhardt, Scull, spe-
cializing in litigation in such areas as con-
sumer rights, government information,
and voting rights. In 1973 he was a staff
attorney for the Center on Corporate
Responsibility.
Panama Canal Treaties
Question-and-Answer Session by Telephone
With Participants in a Townhall Meeting on
the Treaties in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
January 17, 1978
MARSHALL NASON. Good evening, Mr.
President. This is Marshall Nason greet-
ing you on behalf of the townhall meeting
at the University of New Mexico in Albu-
querque. Since you speak Spanish so nice-
ly, I think we could say, muy buenas
noches, Señor Presidente [a very good
evening, Mr. President].
We greatly appreciate your willingness
to share with us some of your views on the
important issues of the Panama Canal
treaties.
THE PRESIDENT. Muchas gracias, Dr.
Nason. Es gran placer para mi tener esta
oportunidad. Sería mejor si hables tam-
bién, pero en inglés, yo creo. [Thank you,
Dr. Nason. It is a great pleasure for me to
have this opportunity. It would be better
you spoke in English, I believe.]
if
DR. NASON. Bien, señor. [Very well,
sir.]
THE PRESIDENT. Do you have a ques-
tion for me, Dr. Nason?
DR. NASON. Mr. President, we're aware
that your time is limited and that you
still have other commitments ahead of
you this evening, even though it is 10
o'clock in Washington. So, we would now
like to direct to you one question selected
by our news media participants as being
perhaps the most representative among
those submitted by our audience.
85
