Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Plains to describe to me some of the ques-
tions, some of the problems, some of the
opportunities with the tax structures of
our Nation. He was the first Assistant Sec-
retary that I was privileged to appoint.
And as he moved from the legislative into
the executive branch of Government, the
move was an uninterrupted means for
him to continue to contribute.
This is the highest award that the
Treasury Department can give, the Alex-
ander Hamilton Award, for outstanding
service to a man who was not only out-
standing in his professional life but also
in his private life. He was a deeply reli-
gious man, and the morality that perme-
ated his activities and his attitudes was
an inspiration to all who knew him.
He was a Sunday school teacher. He
was a good family man. And his loss,
which was quite unexpected, came in the
service of his Nation. And I know that
Secretary Blumenthal, who is the one who
grants this award, would like to add a
word to what I've said about Larry
Woodworth.
I wish he was here to accept the award
in person, but his wife is here, Mrs.
Woodworth.
Mr. Secretary, I'll give the award to
you now for presentation.
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Thank you,
Mr. President. I merely wish to echo what
you have said about Larry Woodworth
and to say that his expertise and his pro-
fessionalism were a great inspiration to all
of us in the Treasury and, particularly, I
learned a great deal from him.
I came very quickly to admire him and
to rely on his judgment and to follow his
advice. He had more to do than any sin-
gle person in helping the President shape
this program, which he's sending to the
Congress today, and virtually every page
of that document and every recommenda-
tion that the President is making, in one
way or another, has the stamp and the
flavor of Larry Woodworth printed on it.
So, this is a very special day for all of
us. I therefore would like to present to
you the Alexander Hamilton Award, Mrs.
Woodworth, for Larry, together with the
certificate and the citation.
THE PRESIDENT. He was also a good
guy and a good friend. There was a per-
sonal thing about Larry, a warmth that
just made everybody care for him.
MRS. WOODWORTH. Well, he thought
very highly of you, as you know. And I
always thought that we should have a
double Sunday school lesson sometime.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. Thank you, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:11 a.m. in
the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
Laurence N. Woodworth was Assistant Secre-
tary of the Treasury for Tax Policy from
February 24, 1977, until his death on De-
cember 7, 1977.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 12035. January 20, 1978
RELATING TO CERTAIN POSITIONS IN
LEVEL IV OF THE EXECUTIVE SCHED-
ULE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and as President of the
United States of America, Section 1 of
Executive Order No. 11861, as amended,
placing certain positions in Level IV of
the Executive Schedule, is further
amended by deleting "Adviser to the Sec-
retary (Counselor, Economic Policy
Board), Department of the Treasury" in
subsection (13) and inserting in lieu
thereof "Assistant Secretary (Enforce-
126
