May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
together in a spirit that puts the national
interest above our narrow, selfish con-
cerns.
We have made great progress in our
economy-without bragging on myself,
because the credit goes to you and an en-
lightened Congress. Remember this time
last year when the prime consideration,
the prime concern was unemployment?
Your unemployment a year ago in this
State was 32 percent higher than it is
now, and on a nationwide basis, 2 per-
cent greater than it is now.
We've made this progress by working
together, government at all levels, private
industry, individual citizens. It shows
that American people, if they're given a
chance to work, would rather have a job.
And it's making our country more pro-
ductive. We need to keep that momentum
going, and I hope the Congress will agree
with me--I'm sure you all agree that we
need to and must cut American income
taxes by at least $25 billion this year.
Another problem is making the Gov-
ernment work better. I'm a farmer and an
engineer and a businessman, and it grieves
me to see an unmanageable entity, even in
government, that's supposed to take the
ideals of the American people, the actions
of Congress, and to carry out programs
that help you, and to see a bureaucracy
there that's almost completely unmanage-
able.
eral Government and refuses to do their
jobs. So, we have proposed to the Con-
gress this year basic civil service reform.
It must be passed. And I hope that all of
you will help me to encourage the Con-
gress to put this reform into effect.
Another very serious problem is that
of energy. For all these years in our coun-
try we've not had an understandable
energy policy. We've been extremely
wasteful. We've grown now to import so
much oil that it's hurting every person in
our country. Last year we imported about
half the oil we used, $45 billion worth of
American money going overseas to pay for
oil, when much of that is unnecessary. But
still now more than a year after I pre-
sented a comprehensive energy policy to
the country, the Congress still has not
acted.
Tom Foley, Senator Magnuson, your
own Scoop Jackson have been in the fore-
front of trying to get the Congress to act.
But we still don't have a good policy on
saving the energy that we can save, on
producing more in our own country, on
cutting down imports which rob us all,
and enhancing other kinds of energy that
ought to be produced in much greater
quantities, like solar
like solar energy. These
changes must be made.
Well, in the last 15 months, the short
time, or long time that I've been in of-
The American Government employees fice, we've tried to address these and
are good people. They're dedicated. Quite
often they serve at a financial sacrifice.
They've devoted their one life to trying to
serve the public. But with a complicated
and confused bureaucracy based around
a civil service system that's outdated and
outmoded, it's become impossible to re-
ward good service, to give promotions
and salary increases to those who really do
an outstanding job. And it's almost im-
possible to discharge or to demote some-
one who occupies a position in the Fed-
many other difficult questions-forest
management, water policy, caring for the
environment, and at the same time keep-
ing employment and growth sustained.
There are no easy answers to these
domestic issues. We have tried to keep a
strong American military capability; at
the same time, to reach our hand out to
guarantee peace for ourselves, for our
children, for our grandchildren—a very
difficult question to resolve. There are no
easy answers there, either.
862
