Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 11
agement, merchandising as a student
then. I began to sell boiled peanuts when
I was 5 years old. [Laughter] It was a lot
of hard work, and I very carefully saved
my money. And after 3 full years, 4 full
years of selling boiled peanuts and not
spending any of the money, I had saved
up enough in 1933 to buy five bales of cot-
ton. Cotton got down to 5 cents a pound;
peanuts were only 1 cent a pound.
I bought five bales of cotton, and I
kept it until it went up to 18 cents. Then
I sold that as a high school student, and
I bought five houses. I bought five
houses for $800 total. Every month I
would go around on my bicycle. Some of
them were in the country, some of them
were in Plains, in the metropolitan area.
[Laughter] The total rent off all five
houses was $16.
I learned then how important it was
for me to participate in the free enterprise
system. I probably could not have defined
it then, but the more I've lived and the
more I've learned about our great coun-
try, the more I see that what you do and
the other 185,000 members of DECA do
is illustrative of the crucial difference be-
tween our own system of government and
our system of marketing, merchandising,
as contrasted to the so-called planned
economies of the Socialist and Com-
munist nations.
You represent freedom in its finest
sense the right of an individual to make
one's own decision about a lifestyle and
a life commitment, a willingness to par-
ticipate in building the strength of our
Nation without unwarranted government
intrusion or government interference in
the making of decisions on a daily basis,
or even more often.
And I'm very proud of what you do to
contribute to our country. I hope that you
will continue to expand your own in-
terests outside of a fairly narrowly defined
commitment just in the grammar school,
high school, or college classroom area,
even extend it.
I know in Georgia, for instance, the
distributive education students have
taken on a special project of exposing and
helping to control shoplifting, a very
strong contribution to controlling crime in
our country. There might be equivalent
opportunities in all the States of our
Nation.
I am also aware of how good your own
experience in distributive education pays
off in your own life. Ninety percent of all
the distributive education students go on
beyond high school to a higher educa-
tion. I wish this was the case with all
students in our country; it's not. And so
you've set an example in that respect as
well and give your own present life and
your own future families an opportunity
that you wouldn't otherwise have, not
just to make a higher income but to have
a life that's more exciting, more challeng-
ing, more compatible with the finest as-
pects of our country.
I wish the Rose Garden was large
enough to hold all 6,000 delegates-no, I
don't. [Laughter] Let me say as an alter-
native, I hope that you will relay my best
wishes to all the 6,000 delegates who are
at the convention and to the other 180,-
000, who are back home looking to you
for leadership presently and in the future.
But as President of our great country,
I'm proud to welcome you to the White
House, to the center of our Government.
And I know that the group of Members
of Congress behind me and many more
like them who have joined in an addi-
tional commitment to making sure that
your program is well formed, well fi-
nanced, and well publicized, and that the
beneficial aspects of it are enhanced, join
me in congratulating you on a superb
achievement in your own life already.
And best wishes for an even greater life,
889
