May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mr. President, I do hope that this visit
will help us bring our two countries and
our two peoples much closer together in
sharing the burdens of shaping man's fu-
ture. I am glad that this visit provides the
opportunity to identify the best route to
our common goals.
May I ask you now to join me in this
toast: To the President of the United
States and the principles for which he
stands; to the health of Madam Carter;
to the friendship and cooperation between
our two peoples; to peace, freedom, and
justice throughout the world. President
Carter.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 9:10 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Dinner Honoring Senator
Robert C. Byrd of
West Virginia
Remarks at the Dinner Sponsored by the
West Virginia State Society. May 17, 1978
I had a lot to do tonight but somebody
said there might be a free fiddle concert.
[Laughter] I would have been here earlier.
We had President Kaunda, Kenneth
Kaunda, from Zambia tonight. And we
had finished our evening meal and the
formal toasts, and we discovered that he's
a guitar player. [Laughter] And he sang
three songs for us. And then he gathered
all of his cabinet around him and they
sang a special song about revolution in
south Africa. [Laughter] So, that made us
a little tardy in arriving. If there's one
audience that can understand this, it
would be the people from West Virginia
here. [Laughter]
In the life of a President, it's necessary
to establish priorities, because the de-
mands on one's time and one's attention
are very severe. And at this moment, I'm
doing the thing that I believe is the
highest priority in my life as President,
and that is to join with you in paying my
respects to one of the finest men and one
of the greatest leaders I've ever known,
Senator Robert Byrd. I don't believe that
anyone can appreciate that kind of legis-
lative experience and leadership and the
trust of one's fellow Senators as much as
can a new President who's not been in the
White House very long, who has never
lived nor served in Washington before,
and who has so much to learn.
I came here about 16 months ago, lean-
ing very heavily upon Senator Byrd for
advice and counsel. At the time I got here
my rating in the public opinion polls was
75. And after taking his advice for 16
months- [laughter]. I asked Bob the
other day to explain the dramatic shift,
and he said there was a rising level of
lowered expectations. [Laughter]
After the first year of that political
progress, I decided to reward Senator
Byrd. We had a very difficult legislative
agenda in 1977. And we decided to re-
ward him, that we would avoid the con-
troversial issues in 1978. [Laughter] So, as
soon as the Panama Canal, Mideast
arms sales, labor law reform are over,
told him the agenda would be quite un-
cluttered from then for the rest of the
year. [Laughter]
I would like to say just a few additional
words. He is a man who has a very keen
interest and understanding of interna-
tional affairs. Our country's policies are
changing. A vivid example of that was
the banquet that I just left. Our interest
in Africa is growing and new. It's proper
and it's benevolent. It's fair. Our dedica-
tion now is to the establishment of the
same principles for the people of that
tortured part of the world that we espouse
here with our voices and sometimes with
924
