Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in a sacrificial way they want to dedicate
their lives to public service, and this will
let them do a better job.
When criticism and debate in the Con-
gress lead to a stronger plan, then I'll
support those changes. But I will object
very strenuously to weakening our pro-
posal. And I do object also very strenu-
ously to false accusations, specifically one
that's been raised recently that this will
intrude into the privacy of public servants
and injects politics and possible abuse into
the system to damage those who serve the
Government. In fact, to the creation of a
merit protection board and an office of
special counsel, political abuse is spe-
cifically removed.
I know that everyone wants a better
government, particularly those of us like
myself who are responsible for leadership
and management of the United States
Government.
In a way, I believe that our Nation is
I understand a couple of your advisers are
suggesting a May 1 deadline.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, no one has sug-
gested a deadline that early. As a matter
of fact, we have just finished the fourth
major element of a five-part, comprehen-
sive fuel or energy program with natural
gas deregulation. And now this is being
recommended to the complete conference
committee.
The next step is the crude oil equaliza-
tion tax, which will be addressed by the
Finance Committee in the Senate and the
Ways and Means Committee in the
House, representatives of them in a con-
ference committee.
I've talked to the chairmen of both
those committees about the crude oil
equalization tax, the fifth element of our
major proposals.
It's too early, I think, to consider ad-
ministrative action. I still hope and expect
that the Congress will act and will com-
being tested these days. We have a period plete the fifth element of our energy plan
of relative calm, free from great crisis or
threat to our national security, and we
are being tested to see whether or not we
can take advantage of this opportunity for
improvement.
It will reveal, I think, whether we can
deal with conflicting, narrow special in-
terests and act in the national interest of
our country.
Civil service reform is now before the
Congress. It will test me and the Congress
as well, and I believe that the Congress
will give the right answer to the question:
"Can we have a better government?" I
think we can.
QUESTIONS
OIL IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, where do you stand
now on the possibility of imposing, by Ex-
ecutive order or administrative action, oil
import fees, and how soon might you act?
and present the entire package as it should
be to the Congress in one body.
ENHANCED RADIATION WEAPONS
Q. Mr. President, President Brezhnev
has offered to not build the neutron bomb
if you agree or the U.S. agrees to do like-
wise. Is that the word you're looking for
to halt the program?
THE PRESIDENT. No. The Soviets know
and President Brezhnev knows that the
neutron weapon is designed to be used
against massive and perhaps overwhelm-
ing tank forces in the Western and
Eastern European area.
The Soviets, over a period of years, have
greatly built up their tank forces and
others, stronger than have the NATO
Allies. The neutron weapons are designed
to equalize that inequality, along with
many other steps that our country is now
taking.
776
