June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
National Commission for the
Review of Antitrust Laws and
Procedures
Remarks on Greeting Members of the
Commission. June 21, 1978
One of the most challenging and
gratifying experiences that I have had is
to see the recruitment and the perform-
ance of both private citizens and Mem-
bers of the Congress, members of our
own administration, independent regu-
latory agencies, in dealing with some of
the longstanding and historical problems
of our Government.
This morning we're here to announce
and to commence the work of the mem-
bers of the National Commission on the
Revision of the Antitrust Laws and
Procedures.
Before I give just a very few remarks,
I would like to read a list of these mem-
bers who are assembled here behind me
to give you some feeling of the quality
of the group. They will begin their delib-
erations immediately, and they will make
their report to me January of next year.
The Chairman of the group will be
John Shenefield, who's the Assistant
Attorney General of the Antitrust Divi-
sion in the Department of Justice.
Mike Pertschuk, who's the Chairman
of the Federal Trade Commission;
Commission;
Alfred E. Kahn, who's the Chairman of
the Civil Aeronautics Board; Senator
Edward Kennedy, who is the chairman
of the Senate Subcommittee on Antitrust
and Monopoly; Senator Jacob Javits;
Senator Howard Metzenbaum; Senator
Robert Morgan; Senator Orrin Hatch;
Congressman Peter Rodino, who's the
chairman of the House Committee on
the Judiciary; Congresswoman Barbara
Jordan; Congressman Robert McClory;
Congressman John Seiberling; Congress-
man Charles Wiggins of California;
Clyde Atkins, who's the U.S. District
Judge from the Southern District of
Florida; Chauncey Browning, who's the
attorney general of West Virginia, and
who's the president-elect of the National
Association of Attorneys General; Max-
well Blecher, a trial practitioner and
antitrust author from Los Angeles; Elea-
nor Fox, antitrust professor at New York
University School of Law; John Izard,
the former chairman of the Antitrust
Law Section of the American Bar Asso-
ciation; James Nicholson, former Trade
Commission member; Craig Spangen-
berg, fellow in the American College of
Trial Lawyers; Gordon Spivack, who's
the former Director of Operations for
the Antitrust Division in the Department
of Justice; Lawrence Sullivan, who's a
professor at the University of California
Law School, and he's an author of anti-
trust publications. And the Executive
Director will be Tim Smith, Special As-
sistant to Mr. Shenefield.
I think everyone can see the extremely
high quality of this group. And they've
all proven by their past interest and, also,
performance, a high degree of interest
and expertise in this subject.
There's a great need for reform. I have
seen a list of the previous study groups
that have addressed this same question.
Quite often, their reports have been in-
teresting. Not much action has been taken
because of a degree of study but without
a melding of the executive leaders, Justice
Department, regulatory agencies, the
Congress, and private citizens.
I consider this study to go to the very
heart of our free enterprise economic
system. There is an inherent conflict in
trying to protect the American public, the
consumers, from abuse, in trying to have
a stable economic system, and trying to
enhance competition. Sometimes those
three elements are in conflict, and it does
require a great deal of study and judg-
1140
