Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
moment. When the recommendation gets
to me, I, by law, will have to act and will
act immediately.
I don't know enough about the issue,
the details of the British Government rul-
ing, to know whether or not they have
violated the agreement that was con-
cluded this past year. My guess is, know-
ing the British, that they have not violated
the agreement specifically. But, as you
know, an agreement can't be that detailed
to anticipate every individual ruling that
will be concluded by the CAB on our side
or its equivalent agency on the British
side. I don't know much about the issue
yet.
But if there is a violation, we would ex-
press our concern directly to Prime Min-
ister Callaghan. And when the CAB gives
me a report and a recommendation, the
chances are that I would honor it.
We have had notable success in 1977 in
increasing competition, particularly in in-
ternational routes of air carriers. We have
encouraged the additional competition of
American airlines in this area, as well. We
hope to get the Congress to act on sub-
stantial deregulation in the airline indus-
try within our country. I believe that
we've made notable success already, and
we have withstood a tremendous pressure
from the British to have more Govern-
ment protection, which would be contrary
to competition in the agreement that we
reached last year.
SOCIAL SECURITY FUNDS
Q. At the risk of showing favoritism,
I'll ask a question from Jack Cole of the
Milwaukee Journal. Would you support
legislation to reduce social security pay-
roll taxes by transferring the hospital care
and disability portions of the program to
funding by general Treasury funds?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that
1978 is the time to further modify in any
substantial way the social security law
which was just passed this past year. Our
own recommendation to Congress in 1977
did involve some transfer of funds and
some use of general funds from the Treas-
ury if the unemployment rate and/or the
inflation rate caused excessive drains on
the reserve funds. I think the Congress
was very courageous and acted properly
in increasing social security payments into
the funds to maintain the integrity of the
system itself.
Had they not acted, we would be in a
crisis stage right now. We are convinced
that the recommendations that I have
made to the Congress to lower income
taxes will compensate in almost every in-
stance for the increase in social security
tax payments that were passed by a pre-
vious administration, and also increased
this past year.
So, I don't think 1978 is the proper
time to change it. I think that the prin-
ciples of partial use of general funds un-
der certain circumstances is a sound one
that we did advocate, and transfer of
moneys from one fund to another is a
principle which we would also espouse
when the time comes, if it does, for addi-
tional changes in the social security law.
That's what we recommended last
year.
HAMILTON JORDAN
Q. Mr. President, we thank you very
much for appearing here today, and I
have one final question for you for which
I'll take full responsibility.
In view of the 33-page, so-called Jor-
dan report, is there any truth to the
rumor that you're planning a White
House conference on etiquette in singles
bars? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. This is a matter that
had not previously come to my attention
until just before this press conference.
[Laughter] I've known Hamilton Jordan
a long time, and I have discounted the
443
