June 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the productive part, the enlightened part
of the American community. And work-
ing with qualified officials, you could say,
"Let me be responsible as kind of a big
brother or a big sister just for one person,
and I'll try to understand what I can do
for them."
Your community, whether it's a very
small town like where I lived or the larg-
est cities in the world, need help on a vol-
untary basis for repairing some of the
deteriorating conditions of it. When you
go back home, I would hope that you
would look around your community with
a quizzical eye, a critical eye, and say,
"What could I do to make my commu-
nity a more pleasant place to live? What
can I do to make it more beautiful?" And
it wouldn't take but four or five people
to make a real impact on an entire com-
munity or city.
If one block in a deteriorated neighbor-
hood, or sometimes even one house in a
block, was beautified by your effort or
perhaps your organization, it could set an
example that would make the neighbors
kind of ashamed and sweep an entire area
with a recommitment to be proud of
where one lives.
Teachers aides are needed, and I think
one of the particular things that you can
do as natural leaders, demonstrated by
your presence here, is to look among your
own peer group, other retired citizens who
might be more timid, not well educated,
not in good mental or physical health, not
quite so affluent as perhaps some of you,
and say, "What can I do to expand my
own beneficial influence among those like
myself who have reached the age of re-
tirement and don't have as vigorous a life
and as productive a life as I've carved out
for myself?"
I'd like to add one other point that I
think is important, and that is that many
of you are fully qualified to have an ex-
tensive, continuing career. On the way
over here in the car, I thought about a
few people that have been very impressive
to me and very helpful to me. I've al-
ready mentioned Nelson Cruikshank, who
is working full time, putting in as many
hours and is as productive as anyone in
the Federal Government.
Esther Peterson, on my staff, far beyond
the so-called retirement age, has certainly
not retired. And she has shaped the con-
sciousness of a President, and she's shap-
ing the consciousness of a Congress. And
four or five times a week, she leaves
Washington to go to a major convention
or major urban center to spell out the need
to protect consumers against being
cheated or robbed in the American free
enterprise system. She works closely with
the heads of major businesses. And this
has given a new life and a new stimulus to
the entire consumer movement.
I talked about the Panama Canal
Treaty earlier. Ellsworth Bunker, a man,
I believe, in his eighties, for the last 13
his sound judgment, his clear ability to
or 14 years, calling upon his superb mind,
analyze a complicated issue, and his good
negotiating capabilities, has hammered
out an agreement mutually beneficial to
Panama and to the United States.
Averell Harriman is a man who's still a
senior counselor for me, who understands
the special character and consciousness
and attitudes and beliefs of the Soviet
Union, who knows their leaders, who
knows the leaders in Great Britain, in
Yugoslavia, and China. And when I have
a very difficult decision to make in for-
eign affairs, I turn to him and say, “Gov-
ernor Harriman, what do you think we
ought to do in this situation?" These are
the kind of people who mean a lot to me.
And I can't go down the list without
commenting on two people that, perhaps
among all those who presently live, have
had the most impact on my life. One of
1066
