Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
market for space services far beyond our
own country. Other nations and private
enterprises will now be using our space
shuttle capability when they couldn't
really use the very limited and tightly
controlled space capability of independ-
ently launched missiles.
I don't need to go into detail about
geodetic survey capabilities, geological
survey capabilites, astronomical capabili-
ties, weather monitoring, crop assessments
to detect diseases in trees. Every time I
have a foreign visitor, I give that person
a 400-page summary of the kind of space
data that we have available to them.
One of the things that we've just done
recently, for instance, is put in a commu-
nications system for the first time in the
Southwest Pacific. The United States took
in new territory for the first time since
1912, this January, when we added one
commonwealth and one protectorate to
our resources, and we put up a space sat-
ellite capability for communications there.
So, I see a great possibility in meeting
our human daily needs-research and de-
velopment, astronomy, geology, geodetic
surveys—that can keep these space shut-
tles busy.
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
Q. J. Heslop, Deseret News, Salt Lake
City, Utah. We worry a lot about water
in Utah. And our Central Utah project
was on the famous hit list, then off, and
now we get the impression that we may be
starved to death by increased costs and
lack of money. What do you see that can
be done to help us in the completion of
that project before we're priced out of
business?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't known about
any changes lately. So far as I know, the
Central Utah Project is approved and
will be completed on schedule.
Q. Very minimum budget.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the budget is
evolved, as you know, over a long period
of years, sometimes 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 years.
And whatever the budget is required to
complete a project once it's approved will
be provided. The increase in the budget
is necessary to compensate for inflation-
ary factors, increased costs. And this is ac-
commodated by my budget recommenda-
tions to Congress and by their action.
I might say that many of the projects
that are not warranted began just with
tiny apportionments of money, tens of
thousands or hundreds of thousands of
dollars, later growing into hundreds of
millions of dollars in a project, once it
gets a momentum of its own.
But we've reassessed several times, with
a great deal of concern, the Central Utah
Project, and the final determination by
me, Secretary of Interior and the Corps
of Engineers as advisers, has been that
it's a worthy project, and so far as I know,
it will be completed.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Q. I am Phil Dessauer, Tulsa World.
I'm interested in-would you tell us who
the name of the last Senator you had on
the Panama-
THE PRESIDENT. Paul Hatfield, I think,
endorsed the treaty just a few minutes
ago. He's the newly appointed Senator
from Montana.
Q. How do you size up the prospects
now?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the prospects
are good, but extremely close. And these
last few hours of debate, obviously,
are crucial. This is a focusing of the
amendments on which the Senators feel
intensely. And I think there's going to be
a very close vote. It is the most difficult
political problem that I have ever faced.
I think I would almost equate it with
the difficulty of being elected President.
[Laughter]
520
