Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 27
I do favor a comprehensive health pro-
posal. Now at this time, the high inflation
rate and the very tight budget constraints
would not permit immediate implemen-
tation of it. It might take many years be-
fore the final plan is completely put into
effect.
After I give these instructions to Mr.
Califano, then he will be consulting with
Members of the Congress who are par-
ticularly interested and will be consulting
with Governors and interest groups like
the hospital administrators, doctors, and
so forth, to work out not only the specifics
of the proposal but also the rough time
schedule that we would follow in their
implementation.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Cor-
mier.
NOTE: President Carter's thirty-fourth news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
Interagency Committee on
Emergency Medical Services
Appointment of Thomas R. Jones and Sylvia
H. Micik as Members. June 27, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the Interagency Committee on Emer-
gency Medical Services. They are:
THOMAS R. JONES, of Peoria, Ill., project di-
rector for the St. Francis Hospital-Medical
Center and director of the Remote Coro-
nary Care Monitoring Project and the Tri-
County Emergency Service Center Dispatch
System;
SYLVIA H. MICIK, of La Jolla, Calif., medical
director of the Orange County Emergency
Medical Services Program, director of the
San Diego Poison Information Center, and
a consultant on emergency medical services.
United States Delegation's
Visit to the People's Republic
of China
White House Statement on the Mission To
Discuss Science and Technology Matters.
June 27, 1978
Dr. Frank Press, the adviser on science
and technology to the President and the
Director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy, will lead a
14-member delegation of U.S. Govern-
ment science policy makers and adminis-
trators to China from July 6-10.
Dr. Press is undertaking this mission at
the request of the President. The trip was
first discussed with the Chinese during
Dr. Brzezinski's May 20-23 trip to Peking.
While in the People's Republic, the
delegation will be hosted by Peking's per-
tinent science and technology organiza-
tions.
Dr. Press and his group will be in
Peking for 4 days of discussions with
Chinese counterparts.
Dr. Press's visit is in keeping with the
Shanghai Communique of February 1972,
in which the United States and the
People's Republic agreed that "It is de-
sirable to broaden the understanding be-
tween the two peoples. . . in such fields
as science and technology." Both sides
undertook to facilitate the further de-
velopment of such contacts and ex-
changes. It is our hope that Dr. Press's
delegation will lead to a broader program
with China in science and technology.
A delegation list follows:
FRANK PRESS, Director, Office of Science and
Technology Policy, and science and tech-
nology adviser to the President;
ROBERT A. FROSCH, Administrator, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration;
RICHARD C. ATKINSON, Director, National
Science Foundation;
M. RUPERT CUTLER, Assistant Secretary for
Conservation, Research and Education, De-
partment of Agriculture;
1187
