Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 16
in an international world will be a meas-
ure of our emotional and our spiritual
and our spiritual
maturity.
Power, wealth, is not enough. We must
be willing and able to analyze our own
faults. And I think anyone knows that
the character of American life has been
tested and the fabric held together as we
experienced the Vietnam war, the Water-
gate disgraces, the revelations about the
CIA.
Our country was tested, and because
our people had an inner strength, our
country has not been permanently dam-
aged, but my judgment is that it's now
stronger than ever.
So, a country will have authority and
influence because of moral factors, not
military factors; because it can be humble
and not blatant and arrogant; because
our people and our country want to serve
others and not dominate others. As a per-
son has a conflict with God, we know
that because of that we have conflict with
our fellow human beings. And a nation
without morality will soon lose its in-
fluence around the world.
So, to close, let me say this: A nation,
like a person, has to continually be on an
inward journey and an outward journey,
and we grow stronger in the process.
There's a relationship between personal
leadership and a people.
Moses demonstrated this, as you know,
when God called him to lead the Israelites
out of Egypt. He was not ready to assume
that responsibility until he had spent 40
years tending sheep, acquiring a family,
discussing the problems with his father-
in-law, Jethro. And he finally was able,
reluctantly, to turn to God for help and
support and a kind of a partnership, and
then he was able to work with and some-
times against the people of Israel as they
made their long, tortuous journey.
What are the goals of a person or a
denomination or a country? They are all
remarkably the same: a desire for peace,
a need for humility, for examining one's
faults and turning away from them; a
commitment to human rights in the
broadest sense of the word, based on a
moral society concerned with the allevia-
tion of suffering because of deprivation
or hatred or hunger or physical affliction;
and a willingness, even an eagerness, to
share one's ideals,
share one's ideals, one's faith with
others, to translate love in a person to
justice.
Thomas Jefferson, as he considered
what the emblem of our Nation ought to
be, the Seal of the United States, sug-
gested that it be a picture of the people
of Israel following a cloud and a column
of fire, because he saw this inner journey
and the outward journey interrelated,
and also visualized, although he was not
a very deeply religious man on the out-
side, he saw that dependence on God was
good for his new Nation that he loved.
So, the great outward journey of the
Israelites, of our own Nation, was based
on an inward journey, where peace was
derived from an inner strength and an
awareness of the will of God and a will-
ingness to carry this will out.
We cannot succeed without this. Moses
couldn't. Lincoln couldn't. Lottie Moon
couldn't. And neither can we as Baptists,
Christians, or as Americans.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:47 a.m. at
the Omni International Coliseum to the com-
mission's National Conference of Baptist Men.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Jimmy
Allen, president of the Southern Baptist Con-
vention, Francis A. Dennis, Liberian Ambassa-
dor to the United States, William E.
Hardy, chairman of the board of trustees, and
Glendon McCullough, executive director,
Southern Baptist Brotherhood Commission, an
agency of the Southern Baptist Convention.
Prior to his remarks, the President presented
certificates of special recognition on behalf of
the Brotherhood Commission to Curtis Hick-
man and William White for their work in the
commission's programs.
1117
