Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
conflicts around me as President would
be a great achievement, and to bring an
awareness of the harmony that ought to
exist among American people, rather than
emphasizing the differences that will
always exist.
The last thing I'd like to say is this:
I would like to go out of office having ac-
complished a resurgence in idealism in
our country, reaching for greatness, ac-
knowledging our mistakes, having Ameri-
can people realize that the local govern-
ment, the mayor, the State government,
the Governor, the National Government,
the Congress, and the President are basi-
cally good people; not dishonest, not
thieves, not trying to steal, but dedicated
to the deepest commitment that we can
possess of serving others.
We've got a good country, and when we
have a temporary setback on unemploy-
ment or a temporary setback on inflation,
or a temporary disharmony or argument
with a foreign country, or a need to ad-
dress the questions of agriculture or en-
vironment, this is just a temporary,
transient sort of challenge; its not a catas-
trophe. But quite often Americans are
too much inclined to condemn their own
society and their government.
We've got the best government on
Earth, we've got the best nation on Earth,
and I'd like to go out of office with a
renewed commitment among American
people to prove that not only to our-
selves but to the whole world.
MIDDLE EAST PEACE NEGOTIATIONS,
ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, thank you for this
opportunity. My name is Dennis Red-
ford. I would like to know why we are
involving ourselves in the sale of arms to
Sadat and Begin on the one hand, and at
the same time, not only advocating peace-
ful settlement but taking the posture of
peacemaker in an active role with their
negotiations? Aren't these positions real-
istically, diametrically opposed? Isn't this
hard to justify morally?
THE PRESIDENT. No. And I'll explain
why. There have been disputes in the
Middle East for 30 years, even centuries,
even before the time of Christ. And I
think part of the involvement of Ameri-
can people in shaping my own decisions
and the policy of our Government are
very well illustrated by the Middle East-
ern question. If you think back 12 months
or 15 months, we've made a great deal of
progress.
Never before have Arab leaders and
Jewish leaders been willing to commu-
nicate directly with one another. I think
the reason that Sadat went to Jerusalem
and was received by Begin and Begin
went to Ismailia in Egypt and was re-
ceived by Sadat is because we helped in
a limited way, I admit, to convince
Begin and Sadat that both of those leaders
genuinely wanted peace.
There's no doubt in my mind that
Sadat wants peace perhaps as much as
anybody in the world, and there's no
doubt in my mind that Begin wants peace
just as deeply.
One surprise that struck Begin and
Sadat, they both told me that—in fact,
Begin just a few days ago one surprise
was they underestimated their own peo-
ple. When Sadat went into the streets of
Jerusalem, the expression on the faces of
public officials, women, children, every
citizen along the street, was one of hope
and welcome, even love for an Arab
leader who in the past had been involved
in war and the most intense hatred
against the Israelis, against the Jews.
The same experience was witnessed
when the negotiators went into Cairo.
They couldn't walk down the street with-
out being surrounded by Arab Egyptians
865
