Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 2
sources and the training of appropriate
health personnel as near as possible to
where they will deliver services, is the
most effective means of achieving the
standard of health we desire for all
people.
to
Our objective is to concentrate on the
prevention of disease and ill health. We
will put special emphasis on providing
clean drinking water, basic sanitation,
basic immunizations, and efforts
prevent and treat blindness. This em-
phasis will be reflected in our own pro-
grams and in our support of priorities
established by various international orga-
nizations.
We will work toward the lasting control
or eradication of the major infectious dis-
eases, particularly "tropical" diseases that
continue to be the leading causes of death
and disability.
We will give special attention to the
major causes of death in children-
diarrhea and respiratory disease, particu-
larly when aggravated by malnutrition.
Private industry provides most of the
goods and services needed to sustain the
world's health. It can play an important
role by exercising initiative and careful
judgment in developing needed products
and in helping to make sure they are used
wisely to improve health in the develop-
ing world.
We recognize the invaluable contribu-
tion voluntary organizations have made
in improving the health of people
throughout the world and their special
services in developing nations. We will
strive to aid them in their efforts and to
coordinate our activities.
We plan to:
-Strengthen institutions in our Gov-
ernment which are dealing with interna-
tional health problems, reemphasizing
our commitment to help meet the health
needs of other nations, and improve the
use of existing resources through better
coordination.
-Build greater awareness among the
American people of the legitimacy and the
importance for our foreign policy goals of
improving other people's capacity to meet
their basic human needs.
-Work closely with nations around the
world, individually and through organiza-
tions such as WHO, UNICEF, the World
Bank, and the regional development
banks, to improve the health of people
everywhere.
-More fully involve American univer-
sities, technological foundations, and
other private organizations in making
U.S. scientific and professional resources
more accessible to the developing world.
I have asked Secretary Califano to go
to Geneva as head of the United States
Delegation to the World Health Assem-
bly, where he will describe further the
steps my administration intends to take.
No one country alone can bear the re-
sponsibility to achieve these goals. I ask
the leaders of other nations to join me in
this global effort. Effective programs re-
quire detailed and careful planning. The
strategy I am announcing today and
which Secretary Califano will describe
to the World Health Assembly next week
will be developed as part of our budgetary
and legislative recommendations for next
year. Where possible, however, we will
move immediately to carry out this pro-
gram.
The world can someday meet the basic
human needs of people everywhere—if we
care enough, and if we start now. I be-
lieve all Americans share my personal
commitment to the goal of a world free
from unnecessary disease, a world in
which life is held sacred, and in which
children born anywhere on Earth have
the same chance to grow up to enjoy a
healthy, fulfilling life.
817
