Jan. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The withdrawal of Israeli forces from
the West Bank, with minor exceptions on
the western boundary, is a principle that
we espoused back in February or March
publicly. And I think this is still an ac-
ceptable approach to the Arabs, although
publicly I wouldn't expect them to
espouse it now because it violates, in ef-
fect, the statements in Rabat. They are
able and, obviously, willing to speak for
themselves. But this is something we've
been very clear on.
The other question, the resolution of
the Palestinian problem, I think, can be
resolved with an interim solution for a
joint administration. I don't want to be
definitive about it, but possibilities in-
cluding Israel, Jordan, the West Bank,
Gaza Strip, Palestinians, perhaps the
United Nations for a period of time,
specifically outlined ahead of time, and
then the right of the Palestinians to decide
their own future between whether they
should continue that kind of administra-
tion or affiliate with Jordan-those are
the kinds of principles that we have de-
scribed very clearly and in writing, begin-
ning 8 months ago.
So, the details are going to be a prob-
lem. But on those expressions of principle,
I don't know of any differences that sepa-
rate me and Sadat.
Q. Do you call that self-determination?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, yes, I don't think
it's I have never thought and do not
think that it's advisable for us, for the
Middle Eastern countries, or for the world
to have an independent Palestinian na-
tion located between Israel and Jordan.
I think they would be a target of subver-
sion. I think there would be a concen-
trated influence, perhaps, exerted there
by some of the more radical other leaders
of the world. And I think that that Pales-
tinian entity or homeland ought to be tied
in at the least in a very strong federation
or confederation with Jordan.
But now I want to say that's our pref-
erence. And if Israel and Jordan and the
Palestinians and Egypt should work out
something different, we would not object.
But that's our position. And we made it
very clear from the very beginning of my
administration to the Israelis and the
Arabs that that's our preference.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS ON THE TRIP
Q. I was wondering, were there any un-
expected gains or losses throughout the
past 9 days?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's hard to
describe. You know, I'm not an objective
analyst. But I felt that the progress we
made with India was extraordinary.
Q. In what specific area?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under Mrs.
Gandhi, there is no doubt that the ori-
entation of India, which has been an his-
toric friend of ours, has been away from
us, perhaps toward the Soviets.
I felt like Desai and his government has
at least come back to a completely neutral
or nonaligned position. And there was a
friendship, based on deep religious con-
genuine feeling of compatibility and
victions, a commitment to democracy, the
principle of human rights, that was very
encouraging to me.
It was more than I had anticipated.
I don't want to analyze it myself, but the
French news media have said that we
have never had better relationships with
France in this past hundred years than we
have right now. I feel very close to Giscard
d'Estaing.
I think the French outpouring of
emotion and friendship toward us and
the tremendous crowds that evolved on
the streets of Paris-Giscard d'Estaing
said that's a very rare occasion.
The French are almost as blase about
foreign visitors as are the people in Wash-
44
