Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 13
the Prime Minister of India. He repre-
sents a country of greatness in many re-
spects, and he is indeed a unique man
himself.
He's traveled the breadth of our coun-
try, he's made a major speech at the
United Nations, he's come all the way
over here from India, he's been working
hard all day. He's still as fresh and as
young as anyone in the room, perhaps
even more so. He's just explained to me
that he's only 20 years old; he's celebrated
20 birthdays so far, having been born on
the 29th of February. [Laughter] He's for-
gotten that every year that goes by, he gets
older. He just doesn't get older. And I
think that this is a characteristic of his
that's derived from an inner strength and
an inner peace with himself and convic-
tions, social and religious and philosophi-
cal convictions that don't change. But he's
a man also without arrogance, and he has
an ability to understand the perspective
of others who might disagree strongly with
him.
He's a worthy leader of a country that's
particularly close to me. My mother is
about the same age as Prime Minister
Desai. And I told him a few minutes ago
that her brief stay in India was almost a
time of rebirth for her, because she really
started a new life there with a new per-
spective and a new appreciation of her
fellow human beings. She went there ex-
pecting to do other people a favor as a
member of the Peace Corps, but she came
back realizing that the Indian people with
whom she lived had provided her with
much more of a contribution than she
ever made in that village in which she
lived.
I had a chance to visit one of the vil-
lages in India with our guest tonight, and
I considered myself kind of an expert on
India after I got back home. I asked him
tonight how many villages there were like
the one I visited. He said there were
550,000. [Laughter] So, he represents a na-
tion that is the largest democracy on
Earth; a people who provide the largest
free electorate that the world has ever
known. And he was elected at a time when
his own country was torn apart by dis-
sension and by discouragement and even
by animosity. And he helped, with his
leadership, and those who have come here
with him, who served with him, to protect
the purest principles of democracy and the
fabric of the law.
I enjoy being with Prime Minister
Desai, to speak to him privately and to
seek his counsel and advice. When I was
there, he gave me this dual bust on my
left, which I think demonstrates the ties
between our countries.
He is a great admirer of Lincoln, pri-
marily because of his humility and be-
cause of his recognition that to live in
public office is an opportunity to serve
others. He suffered because of his beliefs.
Mahatma Gandhi, a great religious and
political leader, did the same. And they,
too,
had an inner strength that sustained
them in time of testing, in time of crisis,
even turmoil.
Prime Minister Desai sets an example
for all those who serve in positions of lead-
ership, I think, to analyze his philosophy
of life and the principles of his govern-
ment. He is an inspiration to all of us
who know them.
He believes in peace, in all the aspects
and meanings of that word. He believes in
disarmament. He made an outstanding
speech, as you well know, at the United
Nations earlier this week. He is a man who
gets along with leaders of different coun-
tries and respects each one; a superb rep-
resentative of the nonaligned movement.
I think he would agree that he recognizes
the fact that Cuba is not indeed a non-
aligned country. But he respects the har-
1087
