Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
personnel by appropriate means, includ-
ing such investigations of applicants, em-
ployees, contractors, and other persons
with similar associations with the CIA as
are necessary;
1-812. Conduct such administrative
and technical support activities within
and outside the United States as are nec-
essary to perform the functions described
in sections 1-801 through 1-811 above,
including procurement and essential
cover and proprietary arrangements;
1-813. Provide legal and legislative
services and other administrative sup-
port to the Office of the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence.
1-9. The Department of State. The Sec-
retary of State shall:
1-901. Overtly collect foreign political,
sociological, economic, scientific, techni-
cal, political-military and associated bio-
graphic information;
1-902. Produce and disseminate for-
eign intelligence relating to United States
foreign policy as required for the execu-
tion of the Secretary's responsibilities;
1-903. Disseminate, as appropriate, re-
ports received from United States diplo-
matic and consular posts abroad;
1-904. Coordinate with the Director
of Central Intelligence to ensure that na-
tional foreign intelligence activities are
useful to and consistent with United
States foreign policy;
1-905. Transmit reporting require-
ments of the Intelligence Community to
the Chiefs of United States Missions
abroad; and
1-906. Support Chiefs of Mission in
discharging their statutory responsibilities
for direction and coordination of mission
activities.
1-10. The Department of the Treasury.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall:
1-1001. Overtly collect foreign finan-
cial and monetary information;
1-1002. Participate with the Depart-
ment of State in the overt collection of
general foreign economic information;
1-1003. Produce and disseminate for-
eign intelligence relating to United States
economic policy as required for the execu-
tion of the Secretary's responsibilities;
and
1-1004. Conduct, through the United
States Secret Service, activities to deter-
mine the existence and capability of sur-
veillance equipment being used against
the President of the United States, the
Executive Office of the President, and, as
authorized by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury or the President, other Secret Serv-
ice protectees and United States offi-
cials. No information shall be acquired
intentionally through such activities ex-
cept to protect against such surveillance,
and those activities shall be conducted
pursuant to procedures agreed upon by
the Secretary of the Treasury and the At-
torney General.
1-11. The Department of Defense. The
Secretary of Defense shall:
1-1101. Collect national foreign intel-
ligence and be responsive to collection
tasking by the NITC;
1-1102. Collect, produce and dissemi-
nate foreign military and military-related
intelligence information, including scien-
tific, technical, political, geographic and
economic information as required for
execution of the Secretary's responsibili-
ties;
1-1103. Conduct programs and mis-
sions necessary to fulfill national and tac-
tical foreign intelligence requirements;
1-1104. Conduct counterintelligence
activities in support of Department of De-
fense components outside the United
States in coordination with the CIA, and
within the United States in coordination
with the FBI pursuant to procedures
agreed upon by the Secretary of Defense
202
