Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ahead, because it is a difficult problem
for you and the rest of us to exercise
leadership in the rest of the world.
We hope this legislation will be a
foundation for a better course to come.
But it is a beginning rather than an end-
ing, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. It goes in very well
with the SALT negotiations, the compre-
hensive test ban, and also the legislation
that I will send up, hopefully, next week,
concerning the expedition of licensing
for atomic powerplants in our country.
Would anyone else like to say a word?
Mr. Chairman?
SENATOR SPARK MAN. Mr. President, I
simply say that I endorse everything
that's been said by you—[laughter]—and
by these gentlemen.
I think it is a great day, and I thank
you for it.
THE PRESIDENT. Anyone else? I want
to thank all of you. This is a project that
had been very dear to the hearts of many
Members of the House and Senate long
before the election took place.
But I was surprised at the intense in-
terest among the American people in the
questions-and-answer periods, and in the
debates during the campaign itself.
I might hasten to say that in November
of 1976 or October, I believe, President
Ford also endorsed the principles set out
in this bill. So, it was indeed a bipartisan
effort.
Thank you all again for your foresight
and, I think, courage in addressing one
of the most difficult questions that our
country has had to face.
By the way, we hope within the next
year to have evolved a comprehensive
proposal for the first time on the disposal
of nuclear wastes, spent nuclear fuels.
We'll need your help and advice and
counsel and cooperation in that project
as well.
Thank you very much. It's a very good
day for our country.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 8638 is Public Law 95-
242, approved March 10.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act of 1978
Statement on Signing H.R. 8638 Into Law.
March 10, 1978
I am pleased to sign into law today
H.R. 8638, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act of 1978. Enactment of this legislation
takes us a major step toward fulfillment
of an objective which the United States
shares with other nations-a halt in the
spread of nuclear weapons capability
while preserving the peaceful use of nu-
clear energy.
The Congress has responded to this
challenge with both care and courage in
establishing a framework for ensuring
that we meet these objectives. Senators
Ribicoff, Glenn, and Percy, Representa-
tives Zablocki, Bingham, and Findley,
their colleagues on the committees which
developed this bill, and their staffs have
my respect and my thanks for their leader-
ship on this issue. It has been a privilege
for me, as it has been for Secretary Vance
and other members of my administration,
to work with them on the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Act of 1978.
Our efforts to prevent the spread of
nuclear weapons began more than 30
years ago, when we went to the United
Nations with an offer to place certain as-
pects of nuclear energy under internation-
al ownership and control. The passage of
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the
adoption of the Non-Proliferation Treaty
by the United Nations in 1968 and now
500
