May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
are going to hold down the price of their
products and also put tight constraints on
executive salaries and other salaries over
which they have control.
The worst economic problem, the worst
domestic problem that we have now is
inflation. And I had a meeting this morn-
ing with my Cabinet officers to tell them
that the 1980 fiscal year budget, which
I'm now considering in its early state, will
be very tight, with severe cutbacks than
what we had anticipated recommending
to the Congress next January.
I'm perfectly willing to meet any spe-
cial interest group, no matter how benev-
olent, and hold my own in spite of the po-
litical consequences. And that includes
business, it includes labor, it includes edu-
cation, it includes transportation, it in-
cludes farmers, it includes all those
groups who are very sincere and very
good Americans, but who have to rec-
ognize that this year, at least, and perhaps
next year as well, we have got to con-
strain inflation.
And I'm willing to take the political
heat to do it, because it's very difficult
for any one of those groups to agree to
join in a common effort. But I think if
we can get a spirit of deep concern, which
I feel, and a common willingness to sac-
rifice, then I can meet my commitments
to the American people and hold down
inflation.
As you know, the Government does
play a major role. It sets a tone and it
controls the depth of the deficit, and it
orients where spending programs are
implemented and how much taxes are
collected. We've already cut back our
tax proposal, which will result in a de-
crease in the deficit for next year of about
$10 billion below what we proposed in
January.
So, I'm determined to fight inflation. I
can't do it by myself. It's going to take
all Americans to help, but I recognize
that I have the leadership role.
COMMUNISM AND AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, Walt Rodgers, with
AP. It was just about a year ago at
Notre Dame University you told Ameri-
cans it was time to end their inordinate
concern and alarm with communism.
You seem to have fallen into that same
preoccupation in Africa. My question is,
what is America's vested interest in
Africa, and why is it so important that
we oppose the Soviets and Cubans on
that continent?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have no fear
of communism and no inordinate concern
about communism. I'm not preoccupied
with the Soviet Union. I don't fear them.
I see the inherent strength of the United
States economically and politically and
militarily, and I'm determined, as Presi-
dent, to maintain that strength, which is,
in almost every respect, superior to that of
the Soviet Union.
We are concerned that the Soviets don't
impose upon themselves the same con-
straints that we do. They have no reti-
cence about becoming involved militarily
in internal affairs in Africa.
I think the Organization of African
Unity, the United Nations, the OAS in
this hemisphere, and other similar re-
gional and worldwide organizations can
handle those disputes either within a
country or across international boundaries
without military forces being sent there.
And that's the subject of my concern. And
I feel that one of my responsibilities and
one of the authorities that I have is to
raise public awareness of it.
I think that Cuba, for instance, claim-
ing to be a nonaligned country, is prob-
ably one of the most intensely aligned
countries in the world. It's a joke to call
Cuba nonaligned. They have military alli-
ances with the Soviet Union, they act at
the Soviet Union's direction, they are
economically dependent upon the Soviet
Union, they act as a surrogate for the
Soviet Union.
978
