Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
international understanding so greatly and ever closer cooperation between our
needed in the present world.
Our view is that differences, sometimes
substantial and often unavoidable, are
not nor ought to be an obstacle to coop-
eration; but, quite on the contrary, one
more reason for dialog and for search
for agreed solutions. In this respect, we
already have very positive experience.
Mr. President, I wish to point out that
we highly appreciate the contribution
made by your country and by you, per-
sonally, to the cause of understanding
and cooperation in the world.
You have invested a great amount of
good will in resolving certain problems.
May I mention the Panama Canal agree-
ment as an illustration.
In this agreement you have, together
with the Government of Panama, en-
couraged the hope that it is possible-
and I would also add, indispensable-
to resolve in a similar way other outstand-
ing international problems as well. Your
country has thereby only gained in the
eyes of the world.
Mr. President, I am sure that our talks
will show that we have much in common
and will provide a strong impetus to our
future cooperation in all fields, as well
as that by our candid and constructive
approach we shall contribute to better
knowledge of each other and broader
understanding in the world. For this rea-
son, I think that our talks transcend the
Yugoslav-American framework and re-
flect far broader interests.
It is with this in mind, and in a sense
of satisfaction and gratitude for such a
warm reception, that I propose this toast
to your health, Mr. President, to that of
Mrs. Carter, for the further prosperity of
the friendly American people, for the
comprehensive development of relations
two countries, for Yugoslav-American
friendship, for increasing understanding,
respect, and cooperation in the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
President Tito spoke in Serbo-Croatian, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Civil Service Rules
Executive Order 12043. March 7, 1978
AMENDING THE CIVIL SERVICE RULES
REGARDING NOTICE OF EXEMPTIONS
FROM THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution of the United States
of America, and Sections 3301 and 3302
of Title 5 of the United States Code, and
as President of the United States of
America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Section 6.1 of Civil Service
Rule VI (5 CFR 6.1) is amended by
deleting the third sentence in subsection
(a) thereof and by adding a new subsec-
tion (c) as follows:
"(c) Notice of the Commission's de-
cision granting authority to make ap-
pointments to an excepted position under
the appropriate schedule shall be pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
SEC. 2. Section 6.6 of the Civil Service
Rule VI (5 CFR 6.6) is amended by
deleting the second sentence thereof and
substituting "Notice of the Commission's
decision making these changes shall be
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.".
SEC. 3. Section 9.6 of the Civil Service
Rule IX (5 CFR 9.6) is amended by
adding a new subsection (c) as follows:
"(c) The Commission shall include in
its annual report a current listing, by
agency, of all positions authorized to be
filled by Limited Executive Assignment.".
480
