Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Arabia and Egypt on one hand and Israel
on the other. We're trying to negotiate
a peace settlement there, and I think we
have an excellent chance to succeed this
year. But Egypt has to be able to meet
the threat from other sources as well. So,
we're doing three things. To recapitulate:
We're trying to get other nations to join
in with us in cutting down the sale of
advanced weapons around the world.
Unilaterally, we're cutting down the
quantity of arms we sell overseas. At the
same time, though, we have to meet the
legitimate defense needs of our allies and
friends so that they will be secure.
MALPRACTICE INSURANCE
Q. Mr. President, Joan Holmberg,
Maple Street, Bangor.
Each State is currently undergoing
much debate and legislation over mal-
practice insurance due to the problem of
increasing premiums from the increasing
financial awards. How do you feel the
Federal Government could help in this
dilemma which might in the long run be
able to keep down the cost of medical
care?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the things that
has been done in some States is to have a
three-person board that acts as a media-
tor for a given hospital community, where
the doctors agree and the hospital agrees
and the patients agree that when they
go into the hospital, if there is any mal-
practice involved and the patients suffer
therefrom, that the patients would choose
one member of the negotiating board, the
doctors would choose one member, and
perhaps either the courts or those two
would choose another.
And instead of going into a lawsuit,
where the doctors might suffer from un-
scrupulous lawyers, that they would be
negotiated between the patient and the
doctors and a fair payment made.
That's one legal procedure that has
been used in some areas. When I was in
Rhode Island earlier today, I visited a
health maintenance organization which
goes an even greater step. And I strongly
favor this kind of health care.
They have in Providence, Rhode
Island, about 28,000 people who come in
individually or who work in small or large
factories. And they pay a certain amount
of money per year per family, and they
have their health needs taken care of on
a continuing basis-the emphasis on the
prevention of disease.
Every adult goes into the clinic where,
I think, 25 doctors work, and they have a
physical examination, complete, once a
year. A small baby would go in every 3
weeks or perhaps every 4 months when
they get to be 2 years old-I don't know
the exact statement. But they form kind
of a partnership between the patients on
the one hand and the doctors on the
other, where the doctor's best interests are
served if the patient doesn't have to go
to the hospital.
The average cost for excellent health
care there, including hospital costs, is
about half the cost for Americans on an
average. And they use the hospital about
half as many days per year as the aver-
age American does. At this time, as you
know, it's sometimes to the advantage of
the doctors; it's sometimes to the ad-
vantage of the hospital. And the patients
pay in the long run through insurance
premiums to put the patient in the hos-
pital where they don't need to go at all.
My wife recently, for instance, had a
tumor in her breast, and it turned out
later to be benign, not malignant. And
she went to Bethesda [Naval] Hospital,
and she was only there about an hour,
and she came back home.
But if she had been in Plains and had
gone to the local hospital, chances are
360
