Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
to plutonium. Recently Brazil—and I
think very wisely-signed an additional
agreement with West Germany which
would open up advice and technological
ability to use thorium. But the right of
Brazil and the advisability of Brazil to
have a very advanced nuclear power
capability is one that we don't dispute, but
on the other hand, approve.
I might add one other point, and that
is that we see a clear need for all nations
to sign the nonproliferation treaty. We're
signatories of it; so are the Soviet Union,
the Germans, most of the countries in the
world. And this, combined with Inter-
national Atomic [Energy] Agency safe-
guards, is a good guarantee within a
country and throughout the developed
and developing world that there will not
be a trend in the future toward other
nations developing nuclear explosive
capability.
PRIME MINISTER MENAHEM BEGIN
Q. Mr. President, have you or any
other top U.S. officials-Dr. Brzezinski,
for instance-suggested that Prime Min-
ister Begin may not be the right man to
head that government in the present cir-
cumstances? And apart from what may or
may not have been said, do you now
think the Begin government can make
the hard decisions necessary to move the
peace process forward?
THE PRESIDENT. I can say unequiv-
ocally that no one in any position of
responsibility in the United States ad-
ministration has ever insinuated that
Prime Minister Begin is not qualified to
be Prime Minister or that he should be
replaced. This report, the origin of which
I do not know, is completely false.
I think that Prime Minister Begin and
his government are able to negotiate in
an adequately flexible way to reach an
agreement with Egypt, later Jordan and
other of the neighboring countries. This
is our hope and this is also our belief. We
have not given up on the possibility of a
negotiated peace settlement in the Mid-
dle East.
Under the Begin government, with him
as Prime Minister, recently arrangements
have been made between Israel and
Egypt for Ezer Weizman to go to Egypt
again, which will be a continuation of the
probing for a compatibility. I think it is
obvious now that with the issues so
sharply drawn, that key differences re-
main that must be addressed on the side
of Israel. The things that are of deepest
concern is Israel's refusal to acknowledge
that United Nations Resolution 242 ap-
plies clearly to the West Bank, their un-
willingness to grant to the West Bank
Palestinians, the Palestinian Arabs, a right
to participate in the determination of
their own future by voting at the end of
a 5-year period, and so forth, for the kind
of affiliation they would have with Israel
or Jordan or under a joint administra-
tion. And this is a problem for which I
have no clear solution yet. But I believe
that the Begin government is completely
capable of negotiating an agreement with
Egypt.
FUTURE TRAVEL PLANS
Q. I am from Channel 13, Argentina.
In connection with your visit now in
Latin America, do you expect in the fu-
ture-do you consider the possibility of
another visit to the other countries of
Latin America, as in my case, to Argen-
tina, and do you have an eventual date
for this visit?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not yet set
any date nor made any plans for future
visits. As you may know, I have visited
Argentina in the past, and so has my wife.
And this year, this past year, Secretary
of State our Secretary of State, Cyrus
Vance, visited Argentina, too, and your
own leader, Videla, came to visit us in
631
