Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 12
[radio and television]—people from Colo-
rado contend that ultimately there will be
inflationary impact from the quota in-
crease, saying that it will impede ranchers
from recovering from 4 years of drought,
that some more of them will go out of
business, and extend the shortage of beef
in this country or deepen it. Can you re-
spond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I've heard those argu-
ments. I think I just responded to it ade-
quately, because, as I said, there was an
incorrect report put out that we were
going to remove beef import quotas al-
together. This information went all over
the country. And even in spite of that,
the spot market prices of beef at the sale
barns went up a dollar, a dollar a hun-
dred. So, I don't think that the American
dinary growth.
dinary growth. As you know, it's now
up in the 50-cent to 60-cent bracket. It
fluctuates up and down. But that's a very
high increase. And I think that those
present levels are going to be sustained.
There's not going to be any adverse drop
in beef prices to farmers, in my opinion.
And none of my economic advisers dis-
agree with that.
If you all don't have any objection,
would you come by and let me get a pho-
tograph with each one of you?
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on June 10.
beef industry, which is very knowledge- Capitol Page School
able about its own characteristics and cir-
cumstances, is going to exaggerate a very
small increase in imported beef. I don't
think there will be any material change,
for instance, in the number of brood cows
kept for future herd growth.
And I think that it's obvious that the
farmers who grow beef would prefer no
imports, and I think it's obvious that
the consumers would prefer lower prices.
But what we've done is not to take action
that would change prices very much, un-
fortunately, but we have done something
that will prevent any adverse effect on
beef producers, to let them have a pros-
perous future, to provide an adequate
stimulus for further growth in the size
of beef herds. And I think over 3 or 4
years those herds will be back up to the
point where the rapid increase in beef
prices will not be such a severe blow to
the American consumers.
The fact is that since the first of Janu-
ary, beef sold by the farmers has jumped
36 percent. And I think this is an extraor-
Remarks to Members of the Graduating Class.
June 12, 1978
It's a great honor and pleasure for me,
as President of our country, to welcome to
the White House a group of distinguished
young men and women who have already
exhibited, in your own service to the Con-
gress, a remarkable ability, scholarship,
dedication and, I presume, now, a superb
knowledge of the Congress. I have a great
envy of you in that last respect. [Laughter]
I should have recruited you a year or
so ago to help me with advice and counsel.
I think our achievements would have been
even greater than they have been.
I've enjoyed my service as President,
and I hope that after your own college
careers are completed that many of you
will choose public service. This is the larg-
est graduating class that we've ever had
from the Capitol Page School. And I
think that your academic record has been
one of which I know you all are very
proud.
1081
