Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
Last year, we initiated a new program,
administered by the Department of Jus-
tice, to provide grant funds to State
Attorneys General in order to strengthen
anti-trust enforcement at the State level.
We expect to see the results of this pro-
gram this year.
By reducing government regulation, we
can increase competition and thereby
lower consumer costs. This year we will
continue our deregulatory efforts in the
legislative and administrative areas in
order to reduce anti-competitive prac-
tices and abuses.
Crime Reduction and Criminal Justice
This past year the Reorganization
Project and the Justice Department have
been developing proposals to reorganize
and to improve our Nation's criminal jus-
tice system, in order to strengthen enforce-
ment and ensure equal justice. This year
I will be sending a Message to Congress
on criminal justice and crime reduction.
My Message will include proposals to:
-reorganize the Federal Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Administration;
-improve our criminal research ef-
forts;
-develop better law enforcement
methods against organized crime,
white collar crime, drug abuse, and
public corruption; and
-develop minimum standards for Fed-
eral correctional institutions.
FBI and Intelligence Agencies' Charters
I plan to issue a comprehensive Execu-
tive Order to govern the intelligence ac-
tivities of the FBI, CIA, NSA and the
Defense Department. That Executive
Order will be the basis for the Admin-
istration's recommendations on legisla-
tive charters governing the activities of
the FBI and various intelligence agencies.
Privacy
The Privacy Protection Study Commit-
tee recently proposed an extensive list of
new legislative and regulatory safeguards.
My Administration is analyzing these re-
cent proposals and will develop this year
a program to ensure that personal privacy
is adequately protected.
District of Columbia
District of Columbia
We proposed last year a series of re-
forms, including full voting representa-
tion in Congress, designed to give the resi-
dents of the District significantly greater
control over their local affairs. My Ad-
ministration will continue to work for
the passage of those reforms this year.
DEVELOPING AND PROTECTING OUR
NATURAL RESOURCES
ENERGY
National Energy Policy
In April 1977, I proposed to the Na-
tion a comprehensive national energy
policy. That policy is based on three prin-
ciples, which will continue to guide our
progress in 1978:
-we must learn to use energy more
efficiently and more carefully,
through conservation measures, in-
cluding retrofitting our buildings,
factories and homes;
-we must shift from oil and natural
gas, which are becoming more scarce,
to coal and renewable sources of
energy which we have in abundance;
--we must provide fair prices to pro-
ducers of energy, so as to encourage
development of new supplies without
permitting windfall profits.
The debate on this comprehensive pol-
icy has been long and arduous. A number
of difficult, contentious issues remain to
be settled. I am confident, however, that
113
