Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
this-there is no dispute within the Intel-
ligence Community over what we're
doing, either what Admiral Turner is
doing or what the President is doing. Ev-
erybody is here, and everybody is happy
with it.
I'm also conscious of the fact that the
Senators are way ahead of us in this area
and have been for some time. It's the only
area in which the Senate is ahead of us,
incidentally. [Laughter] We hope to catch
up. It's going to be a difficult job. But
frankly, they have led the way, and I
think, perhaps, they have taken the Con-
gress through the thickest of what this par-
ticular activity within the Congress means
and its significance.
And as the Vice President has so well
said and you have so well said, this Execu-
tive order is historical. It does indicate
that we can operate an intelligence com-
munity within the framework of our Con-
stitution, to protect the rights and ensure
the rights of the people of our Nation. And
that's exactly why we are in business.
So, Mr. President, with this Executive
order, with the charter legislation that is
coming out of the Senate, with the for-
eign surveillance intelligence legislation
that has been considered by the House, is
being considered by Chairman Murphy of
our committee, why, we can assure you
that you will find the House in coopera-
tion with you, with the administration,
and with the Senate committee.
Thank you very much for inviting us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Eddie. Dee Huddleston has been the
chairman of the subcommittee responsible
for the drafting of legislation precedent
to the actual evolution of the charter
which will be part of our Nation's laws.
Senator Huddleston has worked very
closely with me and others in the basic
premises included in the Executive order.
This is a good basis. We all recognized
that the Intelligence Community has to
have some degree of flexibility. And there
are a few directives that will not be in-
Icluded in this Executive order because of
their highly confidential nature, but all
those are being shared and will be shared
with the Senate and the House commit-
tees. We are very proud of the relationship
that we have.
SENATOR HUDDLESTON. Well, thank
you, Mr. President. I certainly want to
express my appreciation and that of our
subcommittee to you and your entire staff
for the cooperation and help you've
given. I doubt if there has been an Execu-
tive order in recent years, maybe never,
that has had as much congressional input
as this particular one.
And I have to say that Bill Miller and
Elliott Maxwell on our committee staff
have done a tremendous job in providing
us with the input that we've been able to
make. I think this certainly is an appro-
priate interim step between where we
have been in our intelligence operations
and the control and accountability and
authority that's been exercised there and
where we all know that we want to go;
and that is, with legislative, statutory
charters setting out the missions, the ac-
countability, the authorities of all of our
intelligence agencies.
Uppermost in our mind, Mr. Presi-
dent and I, too, along with Vice Presi-
dent Mondale, went through the so-called
Church committee's investigative pe-
riod-in spite of the abuses that we saw
revealed, I think our major objective
still, as we protect the rights and priv-
ileges of our citizens, is to provide the
machinery under which the United States
of America can have the best, most effi-
cient, most effective intelligence appa-
ratus in the world. That's what we are
going to work toward. As our chairman
has indicated, we're prepared now, and
192
