Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 13
So, I would say those three items right
now are the things that are most impor-
tant to me-the Mideast arms sales over
this weekend and Monday morning in the
Senate, the civil service reform, and deal-
ing with the inflation problem.
I won't take any further time. And I
might say I came in a little bit late be-
cause I was busy on the telephone, but I'll
make the time up to you. And I would like
to finish, after I've been in here 25 min-
utes, so that—if you don't have any objec-
tion-I can get a photograph with each
one of you.
QUESTIONS
SOVIET-CUBAN INFLUENCE IN AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, what does the United
States plan to do in practice to denounce
and to counter the Soviet-Cuban influ-
ence in Africa, besides your warnings?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when you say
besides the warnings, that covers a lot of
territory. I have let Brezhnev know di-
rectly from me to him, plus through his
own Ambassador and Secretary of State
Vance when he was there, that the
Soviets' continuation of intrusion into
Africa with military forces was a major
obstacle to trust on the part of the Amer-
ican people that the Soviets want peace
and want to have a successful détente
effort.
We have aroused as much as we can
the developing nations' and the non-
aligned nations' leaders to intercede with
the Soviets and with Cuba. I think that
we've done the best we could among the
African nations, particularly the black
African nations, to let them know that
they are capable and ought to be granted
the right to settle their own disputes
among themselves. We've done all we
could to strengthen the Organization of
African Unity and encourage the leaders
therein to move aggressively to resolve
the disputes that might exist among Af-
rican people, among themselves, and not
call on the Cubans or the Soviets from
outside to take a stand.
You might get from Jody, in order to
save time now, a more lengthy and defini-
tive answer that I gave at the townhall
meeting in Portland [Spokane] this week,
where I went into some detail about the
Soviets' normal operating procedure. If
there is a dispute in a country, unfortu-
nately, they will provide weapons much
more quickly and eagerly than will we.
And for a limited period of time, they are
able to get some influence in that coun-
try because of that supply of weapons. But
on the long-term basis, I think that our
own relationship with them, with the Af-
rican people, our absence of racism
against black people now, our commit-
ment to economic aid rather than military
aid, would be a very significant factor.
The other thing that is important is
religion. The Soviets are atheistic, and
most of the leaders in Africa are deeply
religious people. They may be Christian,
they may be Moslem, or otherwise. But
I think they have a natural distrust of
atheists.
So, all those points, you know, are
that although we want to have peace
pertinent. But we let the Soviets know
with them, we're willing to compete
peacefully, we're not afraid of them, our
military strength will be maintained,
their intrusion into Africa is both un-
necessary, unwarranted, and tends to con-
vince the American people that the
Soviets are not sincere in their commit-
ment to détente and their search for
peace.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS; ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS IN MEXICO
Q. Mr. President, your proposals for
controlling the illegal immigration have
903
