Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 10, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of College Editors and News
Directors. March 3, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Since Midge¹ has had
some of her other speaking engagements
canceled, she has been looking for a way
to spend her time.
It's a great pleasure to have you here.
You don't often have a chance to have a
photographers' convention. [Laughter]
I'd like to spend the brief time I have
with you answering questions that you
might have to present to me, but I would
like to say that we are grateful for your
coming. You represent an element of
leadership, both present and future, that's
very valuable to our country. And I know
that your interest in both higher educa-
tion and government is exemplified by
your presence here.
So, without further ado, I'd like to just
have your questions.
SALT NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, it has been suggested
from a report that Soviet officials at SALT
negotiations in Geneva are suggesting
Margaret Costanza, Assistant to the Presi-
that Russia might introduce cruise mis-
siles in Cuba if the U.S. deploys such
missiles with NATO forces in Western
Europe. Do you have any comments on
that as far as if this is going to be true?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had no sug-
gestions that the Soviets might introduce
missiles that were capable of attacking our
country in Cuba if the SALT negotia-
tions are successful or unsuccessful. I had
a meeting yesterday, on the SALT nego-
tiations in detail, with our chief negotia-
tors.
We are making good and steady prog-
ress. We now are down to about 12 high-
ly technical issues, 3 or 4 of which are
quite significant in their nature and will
be difficult. My own belief is that—both
in reaching a SALT II agreement-
which will last until 1985, a protocol
which will last until 1980 or, perhaps, the
first of 1981-and setting down the prin-
ciples of a so-called SALT III agreement,
which will bring about much more dras-
tic reductions in commitments to nuclear
weapons, plus, for the first time, discus-
sions on a comprehensive test ban to pre-
vent the explosions of nuclear materials
either for peaceful nuclear devices, so-
called, or for military purposes-we are
dent for Public Liaison, spoke to the group making good progress in all those re-
prior to the President's remarks.
spects.
459
