Apr. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President's Special Summit
Representative
Appointment of Henry Owen. April 18, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Henry Owen, of Washing-
ton, D.C., to be the President's Special
Summit Representative with responsibil-
ities for economic summits and for inter-
national economic policy.
Owen was born in New York City on
August 26, 1920. He is a graduate of
Harvard University and served in World
War II as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy.
Following the war, he joined the State
Department and served in various posts
in the Department in Washington. From
1966 to 1969, he was Chairman of the
Department's Policy Planning Council.
In 1969 he joined the Brookings In-
stitution as director of foreign policy
studies. During 1977 Owen was involved
in the planning for the Downing Street
summit meetings held in London last
spring.
Panama Canal Treaty
Remarks on Senate Ratification of the
Treaty. April 18, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is a day of which
Americans can always feel proud, for now
we have reminded the world and our-
selves of the things that we stand for as
a nation. The negotiations that led to
these treaties began 14 years ago, and they
continued under four administrations,
four Presidents. I'm proud that they
reached their conclusion while I was
President. But I'm far prouder that we,
as a people, have shown that in a full and
open debate about difficult foreign policy
objectives, that we will reach the deci-
sions that are in the best interest of our
Nation.
The debate has been long and hard.
But in the end, it's given our decision a
firm base in the will of the American peo-
ple. Over the last 8 months, millions of
Americans have studied the treaties, have
registered their views and, in some cases,
have changed their minds. No matter
which side they took in this debate, most
Americans have acted out of sincere con-
cern about our Nation's interest.
I would like to express my thanks to a
few for the job they've done. Under the
leadership of Senators Byrd and Baker
and Sparkman and others, the Senate has
carried out its responsibility of advice and
consent with great care. All of us owe
them our thanks. I feel a special gratitude
and admiration for those Senators who
have done what was right, because it was
right, despite tremendous pressure and, in
some cases, political threats.
The loyal employees of the Panama
Canal Zone and the Canal Zone Govern-
ment also deserve our gratitude and our
admiration for their performance during
these months of great uncertainty.
And General Torrijos and the people
of Panama, who have followed this debate
closely and through every stage, have been
willing partners and cooperative and pa-
tient friends. There is no better indication
of the prospect for friendly relations be-
tween us in the future than their conduct
during the last few months.
We now have a partnership with Pan-
ama to maintain and to operate and to
defend the canal. We have the clear right
to take whatever action is necessary to de-
fend the canal and to keep it open and
neutral and accessible. We do not have
the right to interfere in Panama's internal
affairs. That is a right we neither possess
nor desire.
758
