Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
effect, with the help of an excellent Demo-
cratic Congress, those things for which our
Nation yearned for all those years.
This time last year the overwhelming
concern of the American people, myself,
the Congress, all of you, was to put
Americans back to work. We added more
than 4 million net jobs in the United
States in 1 year, thanks to you, thanks to
the Democratic Congress. And we saw
the unemployment rate drop from about
8 percent, now to just one-tenth of a per-
cent above 6. And there's a renewed hope
and confidence among American people
that Democrats can provide jobs for those
that want to work.
Now we've got another problem,
equally important, that needs to be ad-
dressed with the same degree of commit-
ment, confidence, and tenacity, and that
is to control inflation, which is tending
to sweep across our country. And with
tough, sound management and a com-
mitment by industry, business, and labor
and government to deal with this diffi-
cult issue, I believe we can also hold
down inflation. Do you all agree?
[Applause]
We've tried to revive, through lead-
ership in the White House and from the
Congress, a realization of what it is that
makes Americans proud. We've suffered
a great deal in recent years from the Viet-
nam war. We've suffered from the em-
barrassment of Watergate, from the re-
velation of illegalities in the CIA, and
Americans had kind of lost their spirit.
But after 2 years of campaigning with
the help of many of you, and because of
the advice of many of you, we've raised
a standard now around the world which
is rallying people in all nations to recom-
mit themselves to freedom, to individual-
ity, to democracy under the broad banner
of human rights.
That's what our Nation stands for;
that's what we're going to stand for as
long as I'm in the White House and as
long as you give me your support.
One of the tough things that I have
found to deal with in Washington is the
Federal bureaucracy. It's a lot worse than
I thought it was, and we are trying to do
something about it.
One of the things that you helped me
with already this year is to restore the
stature and the mutual trust that exists
and can exist even more vividly between
our own Nation and the developing na-
tions of the world, particularly in Latin
America. You helped me with the Pan-
ama Canal treaties. We won a tremend-
ous victory, and I thank you for it.
Now we've got another domestic as-
signment, and that is to reform the civil
service system. We want to have a gov-
ernment where the very fine and dedi-
cated public employees who have one life
to live and who have chosen to make their
career in helping other people through
government processes a part of the de-
mocratic system. In the past they have
been hamstrung by a mechanism or bu-
reaucracy that doesn't work, and we are
trying to reform that system. And I need
your help on that as well, and I hope you
will give me that help.
Please contact all the Members of Con-
gress that you know-and that's probably
every one of them-and make sure they
help. It'll be a good thing politically. It'll
be a great credit to the Democratic Party.
It'll make my job easier and make our
own government more responsive to the
people's needs.
Now, there are a lot of parts of that
reorganization. I'd just like to mention
one of them to show you how difficult
this is politically, but how important it is
to our country, and that's the subject
of veterans preferences. I'm a veteran. I
served 11 years in the Navy. My father
was a veteran. He served in the First
798
