May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I wondered if you would approve that
provision and, if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are several
provisions in the bill that concern the
Members of the Senate. I do favor the
bill as it was passed by the House, which
includes that particular aspect. I would
not describe it in exactly the same words
you used. But there is some need for a
threat of punishment to any person in this
country who violates a law, and if a busi-
ness violates the laws of the United States,
there has to be some threat of conse-
quence adverse to that business. It might
be imprisonment in the penitentiary, it
might be a very heavy fine, or it might be
the threat of losing Government business
until they do come into compliance.
There's a debate about how long an
election might be delayed, whether it'll be
30 days, 45 days, or 60 days. There's a
concern among many people, also, about
the right of labor, if business campaigns
against a labor organization, that that
labor organization has a right to access to
that property. That bothers a lot of
Americans. But my guess is that when the
Senate gets through debating the bill-
and it's a fairly narrow vote, nobody
knows the outcome of it yet-that some
of the things of concern to you might very
well be changed.
But I know the controversy involved in
this bill. I think if the bill had been
radical in nature, there would not have
been mounted a more strong attack on it.
In my opinion as a businessman myself,
coming from a very conservative region of
our country, it is a very modest and mod-
erate piece of legislation. But there's room
for disagreement, which you pointed out
very well.
SPEAKER REDMOND.
Ray Yourell.
URBAN UNEMPLOYMENT
REPRESENTATIVE YOURELL. Mr. Presi-
dent, the urban areas have become deca-
dent in many ways; some are almost bank-
rupt, and minority employment is about
30 percent or better in some areas. Con-
sidering these areas as man-made dis-
asters, has your administration made any
plans, let's say, perhaps to consider them
man-made disaster areas and thereby
capable of receiving help. Or perhaps you
have taken the Humphrey-Hawkins plan
under consideration, or perhaps you have
a plan of your own.
Do you have a comment?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be glad to. Of
course, one of the most severe problems
in the ghetto areas have been deteriora-
tion of the quality of life, not just housing,
transportation, law enforcement, health
care, education, but also a matter that
struck to the heart of those regions, and
that was the unemployment question.
I think the Congress has made notable
progress in the last 16 months. The pro-
grams have been administered well, too.
And as I said earlier, we've cut down the
unemployment rate substantially, and
we've increased employment opportuni-
ties, a net of 52 million jobs, which has
never been achieved before in the history
of our country. Those programs are still
ongoing. Since we've now cut down the
general unemployment rate among those
easier to employ, now I think the special
programs, the public works programs, the
CETA jobs, and so forth, can be more
narrowly focused upon those who are dif-
ficult to employ.
We've also marshaled the support of
the National Alliance of Businessmen.
Sixteen months ago the highest unem-
ployment rate among white and black
young people was Vietnam veterans. We
had a special program called HIRE,
Representative where the business community volun-
teered to hire Vietnam veterans. We have
994
