Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 14
some of the things offhand that come to
mind.
Yes? Let me get my old friend from
southeast Georgia.
URBAN POLICIES
Q. Talk about the problems with
the suburbs and the major cities. It's not
just a Georgia problem, I understand.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. We'll
have an urban package to put forward
in March. Of course, the thing to remem-
ber is that almost every program that we
put to the Congress or every budget item
on the domestic scene is oriented pri-
marily to the urban areas, because that's
where your major concentrations of un-
employment and the major problems are.
Even many of the aspects of the agricul-
ture bill, you know, relate to urban
dwellers.
Food stamp reform, which was accom-
plished last year, is one example. We'll
have a substantial increase in the allot-
ment of funds for housing, for urban de-
velopment, for education, for transporta-
tion, for providing jobs for those who are
currently unemployed. And I think we've
brought back a great deal of the balance
that ought to exist between the down-
town, sometimes deteriorating urban cen-
ters on the one hand, and the suburban
areas on the other.
We are trying to rebuild both the in-
terest at the local community level and
also the Federal Government involvement
in the downtown urban areas which, I
think, had been to some degree neglected.
Quite often the Congress would design a
program in the past for the more rapidly
deteriorating, more needy parts of the
country, but because of the better orga-
nization, higher level of education and
public awareness, higher degree of polit-
ical influence, the suburbs, completely
legally, would get most of the benefits of
those programs. We are trying to provide
a better balance now.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Good to see you up
here.
FRIENDSHIP FORCE
Q. Mr. President, thank you for recog-
nizing me. I don't think my family would
have let me come home if I had not
mentioned this to you today.
My oldest daughter has just returned—
or shortly returned from Caracas, Vene-
zuela, having participated in one of your
people-to-people programs.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, great.
Q. She wanted me to report to you that
her trip, at least, was a tremendous suc-
cess. This does seem like a pretty effective
way to improve relations between nations
on a people-to-people basis and a rela-
tively inexpensive one. Do you have plans
to expand this program-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. to make it available to more
Americans?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I wish all of you
would mention this when you get back
home in your own way. [Laughter]
My wife initiated this program. It's
called the Friendship Force. We started
it when I was Governor of Georgia. Every
year we would send a planeload of people
down to Brazil, and we'd bring the same
plane back to Georgia full of Brazilians.
And each group would stay about 10
days-never stayed in a motel or hotel;
they stayed in private homes. The ex-
penses are very, very low, like $250 for
the round trip, which is the only expense.
The only thing you had to do was to pay
your way down and back, that very
modest amount, and get one of your
neighbors to take a Brazilian in the home.
Since then, my own family-this has
nothing to do with government, it's all
75
