Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 6
on water resources projects and related needed national leadership in the effort
programs.
-These projects often are planned
without a uniform, standard basis for es-
timating benefits and costs.
-States are primarily responsible for
water policy within their boundaries, yet
are not integrally involved in setting pri-
orities and sharing in Federal project
planning and funding.
-There is a $34 billion backlog of au-
thorized or uncompleted projects.
-Some water projects are unsafe or
environmentally unwise and have caused
losses of natural streams and rivers, fish
and wildlife habitat and recreational
opportunities.
The study also found that water con-
servation has not been addressed at a na-
tional level even though we have pressing
water supply problems. Of 106 watershed
subregions in the country, 21 already have
severe water shortages. By the year 2000
this number could increase to 39 subre-
gions. The Nation's cities are also begin-
ning to experience water shortage prob-
lems which can only be solved at very
high cost. In some areas, precious ground-
water supplies are also being depleted at
a faster rate than they are replenished.
In many cases an effective water conser-
vation program could play a key role in
alleviating these problems.
These water policy initiatives will make
the Federal government's water programs
more efficient and responsive in meeting
the Nation's water-related needs. They
are designed to build on fundamentally
sound statutes and on the Principles and
Standards which govern the planning and
development of Federal water projects,
and also to enhance the role of the States,
where the primary responsibilities for
water policy must lie. For the first time,
the Federal government will work with
State and local governments and exert
to conserve water. Above all, these policy
reforms will encourage water projects
which are economically and environmen-
tally sound and will avoid projects which
are wasteful or which benefit a few at
the expense of many.
Across the Nation there is remarkable
diversity in the role water plays. Over
most of the West, water is scarce and
must be managed carefully-and detailed
traditions and laws have grown up to
govern the use of water. In other parts of
the country, flooding is more of a problem
than drought, and in many areas, plenti-
ful water resources have offered oppor-
tunities for hydroelectric power and navi-
gation. In the urban areas of our Nation,
water supply systems are the major con-
cern-particularly where antiquated sys-
tems need rehabilitation in order to con-
serve water and assure continued eco-
nomic growth.
Everywhere, water is fundamental to
environmental quality. Clean drinking
water, recreation, wildlife and beautiful
natural areas depend on protection of
our water resources.
Given this diversity, Federal water
policy cannot attempt to prescribe water
use patterns for the country. Nor should
the Federal government preempt the pri-
mary responsibility of the States for water
management and allocation. For those
reasons, these water policy reforms will
not preempt State or local water respon-
sibilities. Yet water policy is an important
national concern, and the Federal govern-
ment has major responsibilities to exercise
leadership, to protect the environment
and to develop and maintain hydroelec-
tric power, irrigated agriculture, flood
control and navigation.
The primary focus of the proposals is
on the water resources programs of the
Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Recla-
1045
