Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
that she would have been admitted to the
hospital and stayed a day or two because
the doctor and the hospital would want
her to stay there. So, I think that this
kind of approach to health care preven-
tion, outpatient care, a constant relation-
ship between the patient and the doc-
tors-is the best broad-range prevention
against abuses from malpractice suits,
and I think it would help to prevent
malpractice itself.
The old family physician is not the
common thing now. In the situation I
described in Rhode Island, though, each
family can choose their own doctor, so
there is a close relationship there. So, I
think that's a free enterprise system. It's
not even a Federal program.
If we have a national health program
in the future, I think this would be kind
of a pattern that might be used, either
using insurance companies or some other
means to manage the financing. So, I'd
say those are two approaches that could
serve to control malpractice suits.
The last point I'd like to make is that
this is kind of a regional thing. The most
severe threats to physicians on malprac-
tice, I think, is in California. And it's
kind of a community attitude that if a
malpractice case does arise that enormous
payments or fees can be collected from
the doctor or the hospital above and be-
yond the actual damages that incur on
the patient.
So, I can't give you an answer. I don't
know the answers. But that's two ideas
that just come to mind on the spur of the
moment.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not a lawyer or a
doctor. Thank goodness I'm not a patient
right now, so I'm not very well qualified
on it.
CYPRUS
Q. Paul Perdikas, 94 Third Street,
Bangor, Maine. I was wondering————
THE PRESIDENT. What was your last
name?
Q. Perdikas.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
Q. Do you know how to spell it?
THE PRESIDENT. That's all right.
[Laughter]
Q. I was wondering what are you going
to do about the Cyprus situation over
there in Cyprus? They're having a lot
of hard times, you know. And most other
Presidents haven't done anything. We're
all depending on you to do something. We
hope you will.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
The first thing I did when I got to be
President was to talk to Cyrus Vance, the
Secretary of State, to see what we could
do about the Cyprus question.
It's very complicated, as you know, be-
cause in the past the leaders of Turkey
and Greece have not been willing to com-
municate with each other. And they have
nations that are sharply divided on the
argument over the Aegean Sea rights, both
the rights of passage of ships and also pos-
sible future explorations for oil in the area
between Greece and Turkey, in the ocean.
I sent Clark Clifford to represent me,
and he met with Demirel and Caramanlis
at that time. Recently, Turkey has had a
new election, and Ecevit has been elected
now the Premier of Turkey.
Recently, Secretary Vance visited both
Ecevit and Caramanlis and urged them to
make progress toward a resolution of the
Cyprus question. They have now agreed
to meet personally with each other in
March, this coming month.
This is a very good step in the right di-
rection. We have pending now mutual
361
