Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 16
people the memorandum of understand-
ing between him and me, which spells out
in very clear words the right of the United
States during this century and in the next
century to take whatever action we deem
necessary to defend the canal and to guar-
antee its neutrality if it is endangered.
Also, in that memorandum of under-
standing, which was spelled out to the
Panamanian people, is a provision that in
a time of emergency or need that ships
of the United States have the right to go
to the head of the line and also to be ex-
pedited in their passage through the Pan-
ama Canal itself.
So, all these terms were presented to
the Government of Panama, to General
Torrijos, their leader, and also to the
people, who ratified these terms.
DR. LUCAS. May we give you another
question?
do the best they could to prevent any sort
of threat to the Panama Canal.
If there is some dissident group there, a
Communist group or an irresponsible
group of students or some other group of
Panamanians or outside agitators who
tried to attack the canal, it would be my
responsibility as President to defend the
canal against any such threat.
We have the military strength to do it,
and I would take that action. But the
Joint Chiefs of Staff have estimated that
it might take 100,000 American troops to
defend the canal. It's quite vulnerable to
a hand grenade or to a planted explosive.
And of course, what we want is the Pan-
ama Canal to be open, free for use, free
of danger.
The best way to ensure that this is the
case is to work in harmony with the
Panamanians, to form, in effect, a part-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. That was a good nership with them, protecting the inter-
question from Mr. Farber.
DR. LUCAS. This question is from Mr.
Paul Herrick, and he asks, if the canal
treaties are not ratified, what political
consequences do you anticipate taking
place in Panama?
The President. Well, for the last 14
years, under four different Presidents,
we've been negotiating with Panama in
good faith on both sides to outline the
terms of the treaties. They have never
threatened us. They've negotiated in good
faith. They've never insinuated that if the
treaties were rejected, that there might be
some danger to the canal. We've acted as
best we could as a responsible negotiator.
They've done the same.
As you know, after the treaties were ap-
proved by me and General Torrijos, then
they were submitted to the Panamanians
in a referendum. They voted for them.
I think if the Senate should fail to ratify
the treaties, if they are rejected, that Gen-
eral Torrijos and his government would
ests of America, protecting the interests
of Panama.
We have outlined the terms of the
treaty very clearly so that the governing
board would have five Americans, four
Panamanians. Our Government would
appoint all nine of those members. It
would be in effect for 23 years. And ob-
viously, during that time, the Panamani-
ans would have adequate opportunity to
learn how to operate the canal. One of the
great engineering characteristics of the
canal and its locks is the simplicity of
operation.
So, I think that if the treaties were re-
jected, there might be some attempt to
disrupt the canal. We could reject that.
We are not operating under threat or fear
or weakness. We hope to operate in co-
operation and partnership with Panama.
We want the canal to be open and free
for international use. We want ourselves
to have the right to defend it if necessary.
All these things would prevail if the
Panama Canal treaties are ratified. Our
83
