Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
Press Week and call upon the people of
the United States, as well as all interested
groups and organizations, to mark that
period with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fourteenth day of
June, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:49 a.m., June 15, 1978]
White House Conference on
Small Business
Memorandum From the President.
June 14, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Last month, I announced plans for a
White House Conference on Small Busi-
ness, in January 1980. It has been several
decades since any Administration has fo-
cused upon the role of small business in
the economy. By the time of the Confer-
ence, I would like to be able to show that
the relationship between the Federal gov-
ernment and the small business sector has
improved significantly.
In order to further the objectives of
that Conference, your agency should se-
lect, in cooperation with SBA, at least one
important advance to report to the Con-
ference. Ideally, this means developing
an initiative that will be visible and com-
pleted or well underway by December
1979.
The initiative you select should be rele-
vant and important to your constituency,
and to the small business community in
general. An agency involved in regulation
of small companies might, for example,
simplify their regulations. Agencies with
substantial procurement activity might in-
crease their procurement from small busi-
nesses. Other areas for programs include:
capital development, government regula-
tion/paperwork, technology and indus-
trial innovation, management assistance,
minorities/women enterprise, antitrust/
consumer affairs/competition, interna-
tional trade policy, agricultural policy,
manpower and human resources develop-
ment, natural resources/energy tax policy.
To coordinate this project, please dele-
gate as a liaison either an Assistant Secre-
tary or Personal Assistant, to deal directly
with the Honorable A. Vernon Weaver,
the Small Business Administrator. He will
discuss this request directly with you soon.
You should develop preliminary options,
in conjunction with SBA, by the end of
August 1978. It may be useful to first se-
lect a few alternatives for discussion with
SBA, and agree on the most acceptable
program. The Domestic Policy Staff will
conduct the final review of all options.
Thank you for your participation in this
important effort to assist our country's
small businesses.
JIMMY CARTER
National Rural Electric
Cooperative Association
Remarks on Greeting Members of the
Association's Youth Tour. June 14, 1978
I never saw so many cameras, I don't
think.
If I could have your attention just a
minute, let me say a few words. It's a
great honor for me as President to stand
here in front of the White House and to
greet a group of young Americans who
share a great deal with me. As repre-
1101
