May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
If we continue to build on the funda-
mental strength of the North Atlantic
Alliance, I am confident that we can meet
any challenge in the years ahead. In the
future, as in the past, the Government
and people of the United States will re-
main steadfast to our commitment to
peace and freedom that all of us as allies
share together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in
the Concert Hall at the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Prime Minister Bulent
Ecevit of Turkey and NATO Secretary General
Joseph M. A. H. Luns.
Later in the day, the President attended the
opening and afternoon sessions of the summit
meeting at the State Department and hosted
a luncheon at the White House for heads of
delegation.
North Atlantic Alliance Summit
Statement on Signing a Congressional Joint
Resolution Reaffirming the Unity of the
Alliance Commitment. May 30, 1978
This NATO Summit meeting is, as the
resolution states, the "capstone of efforts
to ensure that the needs of collective se-
curity will be met over the next decade."
For almost 30 years, NATO has "pre-
served the peace . . . allowing its members
to attain unprecedented levels of pros-
perity and well-being for their people."
We look forward to meeting the chal-
lenges of the future, confident of our
Alliance and sure of our people's support
for it. This resolution reaffirms that
NATO will continue to enjoy the broad,
bipartisan backing from Congress that it
has always had. This administration will
join with the Congress-in the words of
the resolution—"to reaffirm the unity of
the North Atlantic Alliance, to strength-
en its defensive capabilities to meet
threats to the peace, and on this basis
to persevere in attempts to lessen ten-
sions with the Warsaw Pact States."
NOTE: The President signed the joint resolu-
tion in a ceremony in the Thomas Jefferson
Room at the State Department prior to the
taking of the formal portrait of the NATO
chiefs of delegation.
As enacted, S.J. Res. 137 is Public Law 95-
287, approved May 30.
Flag Day and National Flag
Week, 1978
Proclamation 4573. May 30, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The American flag has grown and
changed with the Nation. But for two
hundred years, the United States re-
mained unchanging in its commitment to
the ideals which gave birth to that flag.
To commemorate the anniversary of
the adoption on June 14, 1777 by the Con-
tinental Congress of the Stars and Stripes
as the official flag of the United States of
America, the Congress has requested the
President to issue a proclamation calling
for the observance of the fourteenth day
of June of each year as Flag Day and the
week in which that day occurs as National
Flag Week (36 U.S.C. 157 and 157a).
To encourage the American people to
reflect upon their Nation, its heritage, and
its course in the years ahead, the Con-
gress, by joint resolution of June 13, 1975,
has set aside the twenty-one days from
has set aside the
Flag Day through Independence Day as a
period to honor America (36 U.S.C.
157b).
1014
