Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
could certainly have imposed Cuban
troops near the border, because they are
spread throughout Angola, to impede the
invasion. He could have notified the Zam-
bian Government of this fact. He could
have notified the Organization of African
Unity. He could have notified the world
at large that an invasion designed to
cross and to disturb an international
border was in prospect. And he did not
do any of these things. At the present
time, Mr. Castro has still not condemned
the invasion of Zaire by the Katangan
rebels. So, there is no doubt in my mind
that just on the basis of these facts alone,
my statement is true.
Rather than look backward, I would
like very much for Mr. Castro to pledge
himself and for the Neto government in
Angola to pledge themselves to prevent
any further crossing of the Angolan bor-
der which would permit future invasions
of Zaire.
And, of course, we would also relish the
withdrawal of Cuban troops in the future,
both there and Ethiopia, and support for
the American, British, and other efforts to
bring about peace in the southern part
of Africa.
Q. Would you be willing to see him
on that subject?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think it's
appropriate for me to see Mr. Castro now.
TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, Proposition 13 would
appear to have sent some politicians into
shock, including some in this town. You
don't appear to be in shock, but I wonder
if the California vote will have any in-
fluence on your possibly reassessing your
own policies and approaches.
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously we will
have to observe very carefully the develop-
ments in California in the future as the
full impact of Proposition 13 is felt. It will
reduce property taxes perhaps as much as
60 percent in California.
One of the reasons for the decision
made by the citizens of California is that
property taxes there are very high, com-
pared to those in other parts of the Na-
tion, most other parts of the Nation. The
property valuations have increased
rapidly, and the taxes levied have in-
creased rapidly. That, combined with the
well-known fact that the State govern-
ment had accumulated $42 or $5 billion
or so in surplus funds, I think, combined
to increase the desire of California peo-
ple to impose this limit on property taxes.
Those factors would be unlikely to pre-
vail in other States of the Nation at this
time. But the 2-to-1 margin of approval
by the California people to restrain pub-
lic spending and taxation is obviously a
message that's been well received and ob-
served by all of us throughout the coun-
try. I think this is not incompatible with
the fact that we want to hold down spend-
ing, we want to reduce taxes at the Fed-
eral Government level.
There will be some indirect impact on
the Federal Government now and more
direct influence in the future, because
there's no doubt about the fact that unem-
ployment will go up in California, as gov-
ernment workers are laid off because of
stringent budget requirements. And, of
course, our unemployment compensation
payments will have to increase. Also, I
think we have about 50,000 CETA jobs,
comprehensive education training admin-
istration jobs worked out jointly with local
governments. Many of those may be in
danger.
We have no way yet to anticipate what
other consequences will accrue. But all of
us are concerned about the budget levels,
about unnecessary spending, about more
efficient operation of government, and
about lower taxation. These were pro-
posals that had already been made by us
here in Washington. But I think they
strengthen support now in the Congress
for those considerations.
1093
