Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Tree-Planting Ceremony
Remarks at the Planting of a Cedar of Leb-
anon on the White House Grounds.
April 28, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Ambassador and
Senator Abourezk, Congresswoman
Oakar, Congressman Toby Moffett, and
distinguished members of the American
Lebanese community:
This afternoon we are participating in
a ceremony that has both enjoyable con-
notations and, I think, very strong his-
torical and symbolic significance. In the
Bible, the Cedars of Lebanon are men-
tioned more than 60 times, and there are
on the hills near Beirut trees that have
been living there for more than 2,500
years, symbols of beauty and strength of
an ancient and proud heritage and of the
symbolism of peace and a commitment to
historical development.
Since 1943, Lebanon, as an independ-
ent nation, has been a good exemplifica-
tion for democracy in the finest aspects of
that form of government which we share.
The tree that we plant today is one of
the Cedars of Lebanon, and it will be
here on the historic White House grounds,
a constant reminder of these attributes
which I've just described, and also of the
friendship that binds our country with the
nation of Lebanon.
There are many people who live in
the United States whose families still live
in Lebanon and who have maintained
their close kinship and friendship there.
I look on Lebanon with a heart filled
with gratitude and appreciation, friend-
ship, and also deep sorrow and concern.
In recent months and in recent years,
I don't know of any nation that has suf-
fered more in an unwarranted, un-
deserved way than has Lebanon and her
people. Just in recent weeks, hundreds of
Lebanese have been killed, and perhaps
200,000 made homeless. The heart and
the concern of the world go out to the
people of Lebanon.
We hope and we pray that soon peace
can come to that fine and noble and
beleaguered and suffering land and that
the brave people there, who have set an
example for progress in the Middle East,
can have peace restored to their country.
Hardly a city or town or hamlet or fam-
ily exists in Lebanon that hasn't suffered
recently and very deeply, and I'm very
grateful that these Lebanese Americans
assembled around me have honored the
people of the United States and the
White House grounds itself by this gift
of this Cedar of Lebanon tree.
Thank you all on behalf of our coun-
try. And I'm dedicated, through re-
minder of this gift and through my own
knowledge and commitment, to seeing
that the ties that have been of such great
importance to us in the past will be even
stronger in the future-the friendship
between the people of Lebanon and the
people of the United States.
Thank you very much.
PAUL A. COREY. Mr. President, re-
sponding on behalf of the American
Lebanese League and the total American
Lebanese community in this country is
our distinguished national chairman,
Dr. Elias Saadi.
DR. SAADI. Mr. President, distin-
guished assembly:
An old Arabic saying goes that the
hand of God rests on the heart of the
King. Today, by planting this Cedar of
Lebanon, you have touched our hearts,
sir, our hearts so heavily burdened with
agony of the Lebanese people, and,
Mr. President, you have consoled us. By
794
