Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
The Administration is also studying
closely the possible need for extended
Federal lending to New York City. The
current legislation expires on June 30,
1978. We are committed, along with the
State and City, to preserving the City's
solvency. If such extended lending is nec-
essary for that purpose, we will propose it.
However, all the interested parties must
contribute to a permanent solution.
This spring I will submit to Congress
a message outlining this Administration's
urban policy, based on the work of the
Urban and Regional Policy Group,
chaired by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development. It will be designed
to make existing Federal programs more
effective, and will involve new initiatives
and resources to address our urban needs.
The long-standing problems of our cities
are structural in nature and cannot be
corrected by short-term or one-time ef-
forts. This Administration is committed
to a long-term and continuing effort to
meet stubborn problems and changing
needs. Our urban policy proposals will:
-build a more effective partnership
between the Federal government,
State and local governments, the pri-
vate sector, neighborhood groups and
concerned citizens;
-be sufficiently flexible to meet the
diverse needs of our urban areas and
to respond to particular problems of
distressed areas;
-address the fiscal needs of hard-
pressed urban governments, as well
as the economic and social needs of
city residents;
-improve the urban physical environ-
ment and strengthen urban commu-
nities;
-use Federal assistance to stimulate
job-creating investments by the pri-
vate sector and to encourage innova-
tive actions by the State and local
governments.
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Decent farm income and a strong fam-
ily farm system are vital to our national
economic stability and strength. For too
long farm prices for many commodities
have been severely depressed. Working
with the Congress in the past year, we
have adopted new programs and policies
designed to strengthen farm income and
to ensure abundant, reasonably priced
food for consumers. Partially as a result
of these policies and programs, farm
prices are now improving. Nevertheless,
we cannot be satisfied with the economic
condition of many American farmers to-
day. We will continue to monitor our agri-
cultural economy and to work with Con-
gressional and farm leaders to make cer-
tain that Federal programs and policies
are carried out effectively.
Food and Agriculture Act
In the past year we have worked with
the Congress to enact a new comprehen-
sive Food and Agriculture Act, which will
protect producers and consumers. We
have also exercised set-aside authority
for wheat and feed grains, which will pro-
tect farm income. This year we expect to
pay farmers $7.3 billion for all price sup-
port programs. The new farm bill which
became effective October 1, 1977,
achieves long-needed changes in our agri-
cultural policies, including:
-minimal governmental intervention
in markets and in the decisions
farmers make;
-price support loans for major com-
modities that permit us to remain
competitive in world markets;
-a grain reserve designed to remove
excess products from the market and
hold them until supplies are short;
-income support levels based on cost-
of-production.
101
