Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I've already pointed out, inflation hold-
ing steady, good economic growth.
We've, I think, helped to revitalize
the interest not only of our own coun-
try but our European allies in the strength
of NATO, a recommitment to a long-
range military program that will rece-
ment that Alliance.
We are dealing with a very difficult
Middle East problem. And I think if
anyone would take an inventory of what
did occur a year ago, what circumstance
did prevail, the progress that has been
made-although success is still doubt-
ful-is notable.
We are making good, steady progress
on the SALT negotiations, a subject that
has been a matter of public international
debate for decades. I think that we have
a good prospect this year of having a suc-
cess in that respect. For the first time,
we are addressing actual reducing the
number of atomic weapons held by our-
selves and the Soviet Union.
We are making good progress along
with the British and the Soviets with a
comprehensive test ban, for the first time
prohibiting, if we are successful, the test-
ing of any atomic explosions, either mili-
tary weapons or peaceful devices, an un-
precedented attempt at a very difficult
subject.
I think it's accurate to say that a year
or so ago, almost everyone felt that the
nuclear genie was out of the bottle, that
many of the nations that don't have
atomic explosive capability were on the
verge of achieving it through the free sale
of reprocessing plants around the world.
I think that's now been stopped.
I think our effort to put forward an
image of our country that would give us
a source of pride in human rights has
had a profound impact around the world.
I don't think there's a single leader of
a nation anywhere that's not now con-
stantly aware of the question of "how my
country, how my actions are measuring
up against international standards in pre-
serving basic human rights."
So, we've got a lot of things that we
haven't yet solved. We are trying to deal
with them-energy, inflation, continued
government efficiency, welfare reform,
tax reform. But I think the Congress has
had a notable achievement.
I feel at ease with the job, I've enjoyed
it. I roll easily with the punches of criti-
cism, whether I think it's deserved or not
deserved. Our poll status is holding steady
at this point. And I think with a few suc-
cesses, which I do predict, maybe the polls
would even go up a little.
So, I think in general, I could char-
acterize our administration as dealing
with some of the most difficult questions
that face our Nation without restraint
and without attention being given to the
political consequences of possible failure,
and I believe that the successes in the
future will prove that we were right. I'll
keep the other answers briefer.
MR. HUGHES. I think my colleague
from Boston, Mr. Winship, might like to
take that a little further.
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, good to see you.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. WINSHIP. I can't resist saying how
satisfying it is to all of us to finally see you
live, if it were, at an ASNE convention.
As you remember, I think we had a
couple of encounters, rather shaky tele-
phonic communications, once from the
opposite sides of a picket line in Wash-
ington and once from Honolulu. And it's
nice to see you here.
My question: You've been in office 15
months, roughly. How comfortable do
you feel in the job, what is your biggest
surprise that you've encountered in this
728
