Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President transited this land in connec-
tion with the victorious Allied effort of
World War II.
Liberia's President Edwin James Bar-
clay received President Franklin Delano
Roosevelt at that time on an asphalt air-
strip of 7,000 feet. In the intervening
years, United States-Liberia cooperation
has here afforded one of the most modern
and expanding civil aviation facilities in
West Africa, spanning a reinforced 11,000
feet.
And today, we are deeply honored to
pay homage to America's first third-cen-
tury President who has come in the larger
pursuit of permanent peace, of human
rights, and of economic justice in our one
world; who has come in furtherance of
continuing friendship and closer coopera-
tion between the United States of Amer-
ica and the Republic of Liberia.
Standing here beneath the sunny ex-
panse of Africa's skies, we most heartily
salute you, Mr. President, Mrs. Carter,
Amy, and members of your suite, and
with intense warmth, embracingly wel-
come you on behalf of Mrs. Tolbert, our
family, the Government and people of
Liberia, to this land of love and liberty
by God's command.
Mr. President, by your sincere leader-
ship you are restoring to a weary world,
particularly in the troubled Middle East
and in Africa, refreshing new hopes of en-
terprise and prosperity, of liberty and
morality.
By your profound example, mankind
is beginning to feel again, as Thomas
Paine once articulated, I quote, "the
power of America to create a happy
world," and may I add, free from human
oppression, free from human distinction.
By your vision and love, peoples and
nations can once more rejoice that the
United States still cares, that its actions
resound of lasting verities.
Upon this continent where the major-
ity of least developed countries can be
found, nature's fury often fuels unyield-
ing economic frustrations upon its peo-
ple. On this continent where persist
heinous repression and racism, hatred and
injustice, human beings appealingly de-
mand justice
mand justice against human cruelty,
against brutal violence, and against
human indignity.
On this continent of contemporary in-
trigue and intransigence, bloody assassi-
nations and fracticidal conflicts, armed
interventions and potential big-
proxy
power confrontations tend to postpone
freedom and justice and the enjoyment of
human rights. These further imperil the
solemn pursuit of international peace and
security.
In Africa, yea the world, we can sense
through your dynamic moral leadership
fresh evidences of positive change. This
new momentum to enhance mankind was
manifested again by your outstanding for-
eign policy address on Africa, recently de-
livered in Lagos, Nigeria, for which we
heartily commend you. And we earnestly
hope that all conditions, both political
and economic, which contribute to per-
manent global reconciliation and lasting
partnerships can be sturdily established
in the coming years.
In 1943, Liberia stood with America,
Mr. President, an unswerving friend and
selfless ally, a developing democracy. We
are confident today that with closer co-
operation and more fulfilling creative
United States policies and programs, Li-
beria can become a more brilliant star of
democratic ideals in Africa, a more con-
vincing showpiece of humanistic capital-
ism and progressive development.
Offering once more our hands in hearty
welcome to you, Mr. President, Mrs. Car-
ter, and your entourage, we affirm and
pledge our best efforts with you in the
global campaign of extending the fron-
672
