Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
required to make meaningful talks pos-
sible.
stantive progress towards a just and last-
ing Cyprus settlement can be achieved.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 20, 1978.
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 20, 1978
Since late October the Administration
has actively encouraged the two Cypriot
communities to reach agreement on form-
ulation of a joint committee-with Inter-
national Red Cross participation-to
investigate cases of persons reported as
missing and unaccounted for since the
intercommunal violence of the 1960's and National Science Board
the Turkish intervention of 1974. Work
towards establishment of such a commit-
tee is proceeding. Tracing missing per-
sons is, of course, a humanitarian rather
than a political matter. Nevertheless, the
experience of these past two months dem-
onstrates that practical solutions to the
problems that divide Greek and Turkish
Cypriots might indeed be attainable. The
readiness of both Cypriot parties to ac-
cept a simple and non-controversial
resolution on missing persons in the U.N.
General Assembly's Third Committee
testified to a constructive attitude on this
issue.
The United Nations General Assembly
conducted its annual debate on Cyprus
November 7-9, and the Security Council
approved on December 15 the extension
for a further six months of the mandate
of the U.N. peacekeeping force on Cyprus
(UNFICYP). The General Assembly de-
bate provided the opportunity for a thor-
ough debate of the issues involved in
the Cyprus dispute. Renewal of the
UNFICYP mandate, in itself an impor-
tant step, was significant also for the com-
mendable spirit of compromise displayed
by the several parties concerned.
Resolute movement towards intensified
negotiations is still required, and in the
weeks and months ahead we will persist
in our efforts to achieve this goal. We be-
lieve we are proceeding in the right di-
rection, and we remain hopeful that sub-
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress
the Ninth Annual Report of the National
Science Board, entitled Science Indica-
tors-1976. This report is the third in a
series of reports describing key aspects
of the status of American science and
technology.
The data and indicators presented
herein should prove useful to anyone
needing an authoritative source of infor-
mation on various aspects of the scien-
tific enterprise in this country.
Many of these indicators show that the
United States continues to rank high in
most areas of science. It is particularly
important to maintain this strength
through an adequate level of national in-
vestment in basic, long-term research be-
cause that type of research precedes and
underlies advances in many areas of na-
tional interest such as health, energy, de-
fense, agriculture, and industrial produc-
tivity.
I commend Science Indicators-1976
to the attention of the Congress.
The White House,
January 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Science Indica-
tors-1976, Report of the National Science
Board, 1977" (Government Printing Office,
304 pages).
128
