Jan. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I think the first step has already been
taken, and that is to draft the proposal in
writing and present it to the leaders in
business and labor.
The second step has been taken, that is,
my public espousal of it in the State of
the Union message.
The third step is now under way,
whereby, as decisions are made to increase
prices and to demand wage increases, they
measure the average increases of the last 2
years and try to make sure that the 1978
increases are at least less than they have
had average in the last 2 years.
In most cases, a patriotic motivation
and one to assuage or to please the public
will have at least as much or more effect
than any jawboning or pressure from us.
We'll offer the good service of the Council
on Wage and Price Stability to assess the
inflationary impact of proposals.
We're not requiring, for instance—
don't have any inclination nor authority
to require—that labor unions propose in
advance to us the demands that they'll
make for fringe benefits, health programs,
or for wages, but we just hope that it'll
create a tone in the country of generally
dampening the inflationary impact. We
have now an underlying inflation rate
of about 6 or 62 percent.
So, that's as far as we are inclined to go.
And I've met around this table with a
fairly large number of the top business
men and women in this country, and their
response was favorable.
I've had a luncheon last week with
President Meany.¹ He expressed some con-
cern about the point that I just raised to
you, that they can't submit ahead of time
all of the labor union negotiating de-
mands. We don't ask for that. But we
hope that in Government, we can also set
an example.
George Meany, president of the AFL-CIO.
But it's a strictly voluntary program
that I think can work with the right sort
of spirit and tone.
If the last thing I'll say about it is
this—if we tried to be too intrusive in the
private sector from the Government, I
think there would be an adverse reaction,
and the whole thing would fail. So, the
degree of voluntary compliance in self-
initiated compliance is the measure of
whether it'll be successful.
There's no way to answer your question
specifically, because it's kind of an ephem-
eral thing, but I think it can be the source
of tangible benefits.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Mr. President, on the question of
human rights, last Sunday in Warren,
Michigan, the Ukrainian people held
their 60th anniversary for the independ-
ence of the Ukraine. And the array of
speakers-some condemned the Helsinki
accord-fear that détente, if it was con-
tinually pursued, that the rights of the
Ukrainian people, the Baltic peoples,
would vanish from the political American
scene.
In line with that question, you have
been very firm on human rights. I would
like to know your opinion, the feeling as
we pursue the course in human rights in
the Soviet Union, particularly countries
incorporated—and if I might ask, a per-
sonal, ethnic attachment—and the ques-
tion of the Armenian people. Prior to the
election when you met with an Armenian
group at the airport in Newark-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I remember.
Q. —you issued a statement on the
persecution of the Armenian people and
the lack of correction of the injustices
against them during the time of the Otto-
man Empire. Now, this was a rarity in the
American Armenian scene for a candidate
for that office to speak so.
236
