Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
FEBRUARY 17, 1978
Held in Providence, Rhode Island
THE COAL STRIKE
THE PRESIDENT. It's nice to be here in
New England, in Rhode Island, and I'm
very proud to have a press conference
here for the Nation.
I've just talked to the Secretary of
Labor about progress on the settlement of
the coal strike. They are making good
progress. No final agreement has been
reached.
I've been in coal mines in Pennsylvania
and other places to see the miners at
work. I know that they are hard-working
and patriotic Americans. They and the
industry leaders both recognize that there
is a tremendous responsibility on their
shoulders, because the future of the
unions, the future of an effective collec-
tive bargaining process, the future of the
coal industry, and the welfare of our Na-
tion depends upon the success of these
negotiations.
They've been bargaining now, steadily,
since they began at the White House a
day and a half ago. They continued in
their discussions until 2 o'clock this morn-
ing, and then after that, management
with the Secretary of Labor from 2:30
until 5 in the morning. And I've asked
them to stay at the bargaining table until
a final agreement is reached.
I have confidence that they will be
successful, because they and I want to
avoid the necessity for me, as President,
to take more serious action if the bargain-
ing process is not effective. The whole
Nation is looking to them with hope and
with confidence.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Before I answer your questions, I'd like
to cover one other point that's very cru-
cial to New England, and that is the Na-
tion's economy. In many ways, our econ-
omy last year was good. The inflation rate
went down, and wages, profits, produc-
tion, housing starts, real income, invest-
ment all went up.
Four million new jobs were created, an
alltime record, and many of these jobs,
I'm glad to say, were in New England.
Employment here in New England last
year went up 52 percent. The unemploy-
ment rate dropped 3 full percentage
points, from 82 percent down to 52
percent. But unemployment and inflation
is still higher than I'm willing to accept,
331
