Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 6
procedures and applicable require-
ments. They will report on compli-
ance with these requirements to
agency heads, who will include their
report, together with the agency rec-
ommendations, to the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. Project reviews
will be completed within 60 days, be-
fore the Cabinet officer makes his or
her Budget request for the coming
fiscal year. Responsibility will rest
with the Cabinet officer for Budget
requests to the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, but timely inde-
pendent review will be provided.
This review must be completed
within the same budget cycle in
which the Cabinet Officer intends
to make Budget requests so that the
process results in no delay.
-The manual, the Principles and
Standards requirements and the in-
dependent review process will apply
to all authorized projects (and separ-
able project features) not yet under
construction.
-Projects should stress water conser-
vation and appropriate non-structural
measures.
-Projects should have no significant
safety problems involving design, con-
struction or operation.
-There should be evidence of active
public support including support by State
and local officials.
-Projects will be given expedited con-
sideration where State governments as-
sume a share of costs over and above exist-
ing cost-sharing.
-There should be no significant inter-
national or inter-governmental problems.
-Where vendible outputs are involved
preference should be given to projects
which provide for greater recovery of Fed-
eral and State costs, consistent with proj-
ect purposes.
-The project's problem assessment, en-
vironmental impacts, costs and benefits
should be based on up-to-date conditions
(planning should not be obsolete).
-Projects should be in compliance
with all relevant environmental statutes.
-Funding for mitigation of fish and
wildlife damages should be provided con-
currently and proportionately with con-
struction funding.
• Establishment of the following cri-
teria for setting priorities each year
among the water projects eligible for
funding or authorization, which will
form the basis of my decisions on spe-
cific water projects:
—Projects should have net national States to participate more actively in proj-
economic benefits unless there are envi-
ronmental benefits which clearly more
than compensate for any economic deficit.
Net adverse environmental consequences
should be significantly outweighed by eco-
nomic benefits. Generally, projects with
higher benefit/cost ratios and fewer ad-
verse environmental consequences will be
given priority within the limits of avail-
able funds.
-Projects should have widely distrib-
uted benefits.
Preparation of a legislative proposal
for improving cost-sharing for water proj-
ects. Improved cost-sharing will allow
ect decisions and will remove biases in the
existing system against non-structural
flood control measures. These changes will
help assure project merit. This proposal,
based on the study required by Section 80
of P.L. 93-251, has two parts:
-participation of States in the financ-
ing of federal water project construction.
For project purposes with vendible out-
puts (such as water supply or hydroelec-
tric power), States would contribute 10%
of the costs, proportionate to and phased
with federal appropriations. Revenues
1047
