Feb. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Visit of President Anwar al-Sadat
of Egypt
Remarks on the Arrival of the Egyptian
President. February 3, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. It's a great pleasure
for me, on behalf of the American people,
and also personally, to welcome to our
country Mrs. Sadat, President Sadat, and
his colleagues from Egypt.
Just a month ago I spent a brief time
with President Sadat in Aswan in Egypt.
And in the brief time we were together,
we recommitted ourselves to a continuing
personal friendship and also to a common
commitment for a just and a lasting peace
in the Middle East.
President Sadat has won the admiration
of the entire world for his courageous and
innovative and historic visit to Jerusalem
in the cause of peace. That trip, perhaps
more than any other single event that has
happened in recent Middle East history,
has helped to remove the distrust and
lack of communication and the psycho-
logical barriers that have divided Israel
from her Arab neighbors.
During their talks in Jerusalem, Presi-
dent Sadat and Prime Minister Begin
made a historic pledge to one another:
no more war. This promise reflected the
deep hope and the heartfelt and frustrated
dreams of the people of Egypt and the
people of Israel and others in the Middle
East for peace. This is a sentiment that's
also shared by the American people. It's
now up to all of us, President Sadat, Prime
Minister Begin, other interested leaders,
and also the people of the United States,
to rededicate our efforts to these goals.
We, ourselves, will spare no effort in the
search for peace. I think it's accurate to
say that we have the confidence of the
people of Egypt and Israel, Jordan, Syria,
and others, and we will not betray that
trust.
Obviously, the first responsibility is for
direct negotiations between the leaders in-
volved in the Middle East. But I've com-
mitted our own country to a continuing
active role in support of those negotiations
for an overall peace settlement, and I
want to reconfirm and recommit our
Nation today.
President Sadat and I, in just a few
minutes, will leave for Camp David, and
there we will have an opportunity, for
the next couple of days, to discuss at
length the best way to maintain and even
to enhance the momentum that has al-
ready been established in the search for
peace. He and I will also discuss other
issues of mutual interest to the United
States and to Egypt, such as the dangerous
situation in the Horn of Africa.
President Sadat arrives in our country
today as a friend, as a statesman whose
courage and devotion to peace is deeply
admired by the people of the United
States, and as a leader with whom it is a
privilege to work in a common dedication
to end the long and tragic history of
conflict that has existed in the Middle
East.
President Sadat, you are welcome to our
country.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Dear friend Presi-
dent Carter, Mrs. Carter, thank you for
your warm reception and sincere words. It
is always a pleasure to meet with you and
to pursue our joint effort for peace. I am
bringing to you and to every American
heartfelt greetings from 40 million Egypt-
ians and many other Arabs who join us in
a solemn prayer for the success of our
endeavor.
I came here in a continuation of my
sacred mission for peace. I believe that we
share a great responsibility to make life
more meaningful and rewarding.
No other nation is more qualified to
play this role as a contributor to world
stability and prosperity. The values that
274
