Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
few hours, there's been another court rul-
ing issued that temporarily delays the is-
suing of that license.
My own background in graduate
school is as a scientist, in the early stages
of nuclear power development and use
for peaceful purposes.
While I was Governor, I approved the
construction of a major nuclear power-
plant in Georgia and approved another
one that has not yet been built. I think
there's a legitimate place in our country
for nuclear power. The environmental
considerations that have been the major
obstacle at the Seabrook site is a matter
to be resolved by the people who live here
in this State and by the Federal courts
that provide a voice for people who are
dissatisfied. As far as the technical ele-
ments that are under my own responsi-
bility, directly or indirectly, the Seabrook
powerplant design meets those require-
ments.
New England, as you know, is heavily
dependent on uncertain supplies of en-
ergy. In this whole region, you rely in
an extraordinary way on imported oil.
Georgia produces 85 percent of its electric
power from coal, and we import very little
oil. I think that there needs to be a co-
ordinated approach here in this New
England area, in New Hampshire, to
make sure that offshore oil drilling is
permitted, that oil can be imported and
coal can be imported without delay, and
that nuclear power can be produced.
Whether or not the Seabrook plant is
the best site for a nuclear powerplant,
I can't decide that, and I don't have the
authority nor the desire to do so. Some
States, as you know, through referenda or
through action by the State legislatures,
have put very tight constraints on the
location of powerplants and whether or
not they could be built at all. In some
States, it's illegal now to build a nuclear
powerplant at all.
I think the nuclear powerplants are
safe. There has never been and cannot
possibly be an explosion of a nuclear pow-
erplant. It's physically impossible. And
the safety record there among nuclear
powerplants is far superior to the safety
record of powerplants that are fueled by
oil or by coal.
So, I think that we have a problem
protection of your beach or seashore areas,
concerning environmental quality, the
with an ultimate voice in the Federal
that addresses itself to the people here
courts. Technically, though, the Seabrook
plant is qualified. And I think there is a
legitimate role in the future as there is in
the present for nuclear power.
My first preference is for permanent
energy sources, like solar energy. The
foremost proponent of solar energy in the
Congress is Tom McIntyre.
Wood is a major, replenishable supply
of energy that's growing by leaps and
bounds in its use in New England and also
in my own State of Georgia, where two-
thirds of the State is covered by forests.
We have wind power that can be intro-
duced, a form of solar power, as you
know.
You have tremendous tides up here and
ocean current gradients that can be used
in the future. Domestic oil and natural
gas need to be distributed here. The new
energy proposal will help you get natural
gas on the same price level as exists in
other parts of the country, which will be
quite a change for the better. We hope to
increase the production of coal.
But after all those possibilities are ex-
plored and exploited, there is still a need
in the foreseeable future for nuclear
power. And I think New England is one
of the areas of our country that needs
nuclear power perhaps better than some
others.
373
