Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
strengthening our military capabilities.
Whenever possible, however, we seek to
enhance our security through arms con-
trol. Our security and the security of all
nations can be better served through
equitable and verifiable limits on arms
than through unbridled competition.
The United States has chosen arms con-
trol as an essential means of promoting
its security. As we pursue this continuing
course, we must convince other nations
that arms control is in their interest as
well. Their cooperation is vital if bal-
anced arms control agreements are to be
achieved.
Ensuring the stability of the nuclear
relationship between the United States
and the Soviet Union is the most urgent
arms control task today. In the longer
term, however, I believe that preventing
the worldwide proliferation of nuclear
weapons may be of equal significance.
Other pressing problems, such as the
worldwide traffic in vast quantities of
sophisticated conventional arms and re-
gional arms buildups, have far-reaching
implications for our own peace and secu-
rity and that of the rest of the world. As
such, I have taken steps to restrict U.S.
arms transfers and to gain the cooperation
of other suppliers in curbing worldwide
sales.
The challenge of preventing war-and
redirecting resources from arsenals of
war to human needs-is the greatest chal-
lenge confronting mankind in this last
quarter of the twentieth century. It is a
challenge I accept.
The White House,
March 22, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "U.S. Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Agency, Seventeenth An-
nual Report to the Congress-March 1978"
(149 pages plus appendices).
United States Court of Claims
Nomination of Daniel M. Friedman To Be
Chief Judge. March 22, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Daniel M. Friedman, of
Washington, D.C., to be Chief Judge of
the U.S. Court of Claims. He would re-
place Wilson Cowen, who has retired.
Friedman was born February 8, 1916,
in New York City. He received an A.B.
from Columbia College in 1933 and an
LL.B. from Columbia Law School in
1940. He served in the U.S. Army from
1942 to 1946.
From 1940 to 1942, Friedman practiced
law, and from 1946 to 1951, he was on the
legal staff of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. From 1951 to 1959, he was
an attorney in the Appellate Section of
the Antitrust Division at the Justice -
Department.
Since 1959 Friedman has worked in the
Office of the Solicitor General at the Jus-
tice Department, and since 1968 he has
been First Deputy Solicitor General.
Visit of Prime Minister Begin
of Israel
Remarks on the Departure of the Prime
Minister. March 22, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. The visit of Prime Min-
ister Begin and his discussions with me
and the other Israeli and American offi-
cials has been very important. These 2
short days have been spent in a compre-
hensive exchange of views on the Middle
East peace process. I have reiterated to
the Prime Minister the profound support
of all Americans for the security and the
well-being of the state of Israel as it ap-
proaches its 30th year of independence.
550
