Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
Sugar, Sirups, and Molasses
Imports
Statement on Signing Proclamation 4547.
January 20, 1978
On the recommendation of Secre-
tary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, and in
consultation with other Federal agencies,
I am announcing the following actions:
-Effective January 21, 1978, all im-
ported sugar will be subject to fixed fees
of 2.7 cents per pound for raw sugar and
3.22 cents per pound for refined sugar, not
to exceed 50 percent of the value of im-
ported sugar.
-Directions have been given to the
International Trade Commission to ex-
pand its investigation in imported sugar
to determine whether sugar-containing
products are being or will be imported in
quantities and under conditions that will
result in national interference to the sugar
price support operations being conducted
by the Department of Agriculture. I have
asked that their report be completed as
soon as possible and be accompanied by
specific recommendations for corrective
actions.
My decisions today address critical
problems that have arisen since the issu-
ance of my November 11 proclamation:
-Our price objectives for imported
sugar are protected. Our objective on im-
ported refined sugar is 4.0 cents a pound
above the imported raw sugar price ob-
jective, an amount equal to the refining
loss and refining costs.
-Current and prospective market con-
ditions indicate that had we continued
the system of variable fees, imported re-
fined sugar would not be subject to import
fees, and there would be strong incentives
to import sugar in refined, rather than
raw form. Refined sugar has been enter-
ing the United States at an unprecedented
rate.
-Because I have instructed the Inter-
national Trade Commission to conduct an
investigation and report to me their rec-
ommendations, the fixed fees that I have
announced are being implemented in a
temporary program under emergency
authorities.
-The fixed fee system eases the ad-
ministrative burden, reduces the potential
for price manipulation, and is familiar to
the trade.
-If I find, based on the new fixed fee
system, that efforts continue to be made
to take advantage of the system, I will not
hesitate to take even more stringent
actions. The dumping of imported sugar
on our domestic market will not be
tolerated.
Sugar, Sirups, and Molasses
Imports
Proclamation 4547. January 20, 1978
IMPORT FEES ON SUGAR, SIRUPS, AND
MOLASSES
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
By Proclamation No. 4538 of Novem-
ber 11, 1977, I imposed import fees on
certain sugars, sirups, and molasses. I also
requested the United States International
Trade Commission to make an immediate
investigation with respect to this matter
pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural
Adjustment Act, as amended (7 U.S.C.
624), and to report its findings and rec-
ommendations to me as soon as possible.
The Secretary of Agriculture has since
informed me that the fees established by
Proclamation No. 4538 are insufficient.
145
