May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 25, 1978
Held in Chicago, Illinois
THE PRESIDENT. It's always good for me
to visit Chicago, one of our most beauti-
ful cities and, perhaps, the best managed
large city in our country or perhaps the
world. This afternoon I have a brief state-
ment to make, and then I'll be glad to
answer any questions that you might have.
U.S. FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Our action to help rescue those who
have been threatened in Zaire has virtu-
ally come to an end. Our transport air-
craft, having completed their mission, will
be returning to their bases within the next
few days. I know that I speak for all
Americans in expressing my abhorrence
and distress over the violence and the kill-
ing that resulted from the Katangan inva-
sion from Angola into Zaire. As great as
the human tragedy was, it could have
been much worse for the European
had known of the Katangan plans to in-
vade and obviously did nothing to restrain
them from crossing the border. We also
know that the Cubans have played a key
role in training and equipping the Katan-
gans who attacked.
Our action to support the rescue efforts
in Zaire was taken pursuant to present law
and under my constitutional powers and
duties as Commander in Chief. However,
the tragedy in Zaire as well as other recent
developments has caused me to reflect on
the ability of our Government, without
becoming involved in combat, to act
promptly and decisively to help countries
whose security is threatened by external
forces.
Our military and economic assistance
programs are one of the most important
means of assisting our friends. Some of the
legislation governing these foreign aid
programs has the effect of placing very
narrow limits on where and when they can
they were enacted many years ago and
be used. Some of these limitations, though
under special circumstances, continue to
be entirely appropriate and advisable to-
nationals and for the Zairians, and the day. Others may be outmoded. For that
consequences much more severe for that
country, if we had not joined in with our
allies in a common effort.
Our action in Zaire was an appropriate
and measured response to the situation. In
this endeavor, we demonstrated both our
ability to cooperate with our allies and our
willingness to consult fully with the Con-
gress before taking any actions. I imposed
strict limits on the scope of our involve-
ment, and they were rigorously observed.
I'm gratified that we had the full support
of congressional leaders before and dur-
ing the rescue efforts in Zaire.
The Government of Angola must bear
a heavy responsibility for the deadly at-
tack which was launched from its terri-
tory, and it's a burden and a responsibility
shared by Cuba. We believe that Cuba
reason, I have concluded that we should
review the full range of legislation which
now governs the operation of these pro-
grams. I've asked the Secretary of State
to conduct this review and to consult
with Congress constantly in preparing the
study for me. We want to take a careful
look at whether our legislation and proce-
dures are fully responsive to the challenges
that we face today.
I will meet with the congressional lead-
ership myself in the near future, so that
we can reach a joint decision on the ap-
propriate steps to be taken.
As for the Clark amendment, which
prohibits action in regard to Angola, I
have no present intention of seeking its
modification, nor that of any other special
piece of legislation. Any proposal for
modifications will await our review of all
972
