Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 6
tween the people of France and the people
of the United States of America.
Another is to exhibit bravery, not
through coercion but voluntarily for a
worthy cause. We honored this type of
bravery today near the beaches of Nor-
mandy.
Another characteristic, of course, is the
appreciation of beauty. And today we've
had a reaffirmation of our consciousness
of the beauty that pervades the nation of
France-not only the countryside through
which we traveled, but this palace, the
home that your President has permitted
us to use for these two nights. And this
afternoon, we had a chance to see the
beauty of your artists whom we admire so
much in our own country.
If France and the United States, bound
so closely together now, can continue to
exhibit the bravery and the commitment
which we have shown in the past, then
human rights will be the historical inevita-
bility of our times.
On behalf of the people of America, I
would like, therefore, to propose a toast
to President Giscard, to the people and the
greatness of France.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:42 p.m. at the
Grand Trianon in response to a toast by Presi-
dent Giscard d'Estaing.
Prior to the President's remarks, he attended
a reception at the Grand Trianon, where he
met with various French political leaders.
Following the dinner, the President and
President Giscard d'Estaing went to the Cha-
teau de Versailles for a reception.
Paris, France
Remarks of the President and President
Giscard d'Estaing at the Departure Ceremony.
January 6, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. On this departure
from the great nation of France, it is diffi-
cult for me to express how deep the emo-
tions have been in me and among the
American people for the extraordinary
hospitality that has been extended to us on
this all too brief visit.
The many reminders of the historical
alliance and the mutuality of heritage be-
tween our country and France, the com-
mon demonstrations of bravery of our
fighting people who have defended liberty
have been overwhelming in the depth of
emotion engendered in all of us.
The personal welcome given to us by
President Giscard d'Estaing and his wife,
the Ministers of the French Government,
have been equaled, even though this has
been very difficult, by the spontaneous and
genuine expressions of friendship among
people at Normandy, at Bayeux, on the
streets of Paris, and last evening at Ver-
sailles.
The open demonstration of mutual
commitment for the future of the ideals
and principles of our two nations has in-
deed been reassuring to us and, I believe,
even to the rest of the world. And I want
to express my personal thanks to your
great President and to the wonderful
people of France.
PRESIDENT GISCARD D'ESTAING. Just
a word, Mr. President, to say that our con-
versations we had during your visit were
exceptionally cordial and open and have
taken place in full respect of the views of
the other. Perhaps for the first time in
conversations of this sort, neither of the
partners, in fact, at either time tried to
alter or change the policy of the other,
but on the contrary, tried to seek out
those elements in common which can be
pursued together.
I would say that it was a particularly
warm welcome that you received from the
people of France, and those who know
the people of France would agree it was
exceptionally cordial and warm.
There is, of course, the effect of the
longstanding friendship between our two
31
