Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tion activities. In 1978 I will propose
further reorganizations in such areas as
the Federal Government's civil rights ac-
tivities and the Federal civil service sys-
tem to make it more responsive and
effective.
As I promised during my campaign,
zero-base budgeting system have been
applied throughout the Federal Govern-
ment. This budget is the product of a
comprehensive zero-base review of all
Federal programs, both existing and new.
In reviewing each agency's proposals, I
have used zero-base budget alternatives
and agency rankings to compare and eval-
uate the many requests competing for re-
sources. As a result of the first year's ef-
fort, we have gained a better understand-
ing of Federal programs and have made
better, more evenhanded judgments. Be-
cause of this system the budget includes
dollar savings, and improvements in the
way programs are operated. With experi-
ence, zero-based budgeting should be
even more effective in future years.
Other significant changes in the budget
process are reflected in this document.
First: I have directed the Office of Man-
agement and Budget to establish a multi-
year budget planning system using longer
range budget projections. This will ensure
that budget decisions are made with full
awareness of their longer range implica-
tions. Second: we are using better tech-
niques for estimating outlays so as to avoid
the chronic "shortfalls" of recent years.
Third: we have explicitly related the clas-
sification of the budget in terms of func-
tions performed by Government programs
to the national needs and agency missions
served, as called for in the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
In formulating this budget I have been
made acutely aware once more of the
overwhelming number of demands upon
the budget and of the finite nature of our
resources. Public needs are critically im-
portant; but private needs are equally
valid, and the only resources the Govern-
ment has are those it collects from the
taxpayer. The competition for these re-
sources and my belief and commitment
that we must firmly limit what the Gov-
ernment taxes and expends have led me
to the premises on which my first budget
is based.
-Critical national needs exist-par-
ticularly human and social ones-to
which resources must be directed.
Government resources are scarce;
their use must be planned with the
full awareness that they come from
the earnings of workers and profits
of business firms.
-The span of government is not in-
finite. Priorities must be set and some
old priorities changed. If we are to
meet adequately the most critical
needs, some demands must also be
deferred. Government action must be
limited to those areas where its in-
tervention is more likely to solve
problems than to compound them.
-We have an obligation to manage
with excellence, and to maintain
proper priorities within the $500 bil-
lion proposed in this budget. We all
know that in a budget of this scale—
larger than the gross national product
of all but three nations in the world--
there are dollars wasted and dollars
misspent. These must be minimal.
These premises are unexceptionable in
general, but difficult and controversial to
apply. They have guided my actions in
formulating this budget and they will con-
tinue to do so in the future. But to be
successful I will need, and will work for,
the help and cooperation of the Congress.
Both the Congress and the Executive have
a clear, joint interest in an approach that
helps us to meet the demands of the fu-
ture. In recent years the Congress has
taken important steps-through the estab-
lishment of the congressional budget proc-
188
