Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
the only way you can effectively protect
against our enemies is through legal
process.
And that's what this Executive order
stands for. It's a historic document. It's
the first time, I think, any major nation
has tried to rationalize in writing, through
legislative charters, the protection of their
nation from enemies, and to do so within
the law.
We need the best intelligence commu-
nity in the world, and we have it. And
under this Executive order, it will be even
better. I think what it really stands for is
that the framers of our Constitution were
pretty wise men after all.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. The
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee this past year has been Senator
Danny Inouye, who had worked very
closely with us. He has done a superb
job. One of the facets of this Executive
order is it directs those who are involved
in the Intelligence Community to share
information, sometimes of a highly confi-
dential or secret nature, with the Mem-
bers of the Congress, so that there can be
a joint sharing of responsibility for the
collection and dissemination of intelli-
gence information in a legal way.
Danny, I'd like to call on you to say a
word.
SENATOR INOUYE. Mr. President, on be-
half of the committee, I wish to thank you
and commend you for giving us an oppor-
tunity to participate in the drafting of
this extraordinary Executive order. We
concur with you that statutory charters
are important. And accordingly, I'm
pleased to advise you that next week, a
draft charter brought about by the work
of Senators Huddleston and Mathias will
be introduced in the Senate, and we look
forward to working with you, sir. Thank
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine. The new
chairman of the Intelligence Committee
and one who's served long and well on the
committee is Senator Birch Bayh. Birch,
would you like to say just a word?
SENATOR BAYH. Mr. President, I'm
looking forward to having a chance to
continue the strong leadership that Sena-
tor Inouye has provided for the commit-
tee. I would like to add my commenda-
tion. This is the first time in history that
the Congress has had this kind of coopera-
tion with the executive branch. And this
is the second step-I would like to remind
those who are here-in which you, as
President, have undertaken a landmark
initiative. We met in the Rose Garden in
the spring, where for the first time in his-
tory you were willing to waive your in-
herent authority to get involved in elec-
tronic surveillance.
So, as we move forward with the char-
ters, I think it is important to understand
that this is critical. Presidents and Con-
gresses are mortal. We have been re-
minded of that rather tragically in the
last few days. And it's important to put
these basic protections in the bedrock law
of our land.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. A new
committee that's just been formed in the
Congress this past year, certainly with my
strong approval and support, has been the
House Intelligence Committee. Eddie
Boland is the chairman. Eddie, perhaps
you'd like to say a word.
REPRESENTATIVE BOLAND. Mr. Presi-
dent, first of all I want to express, on be-
half of all my colleagues on the House
side, our appreciation at the invitation
that brings us to this very significant and
very meaningful occasion. I only have a
couple of observations. I'm delighted to
come, first of all, to find out whether or
not the signatures on the letters that I get
from you are genuine. [Laughter] I've seen
you sign here; I know they are. [Laughter]
Then I'm delighted to see that behind
us and I think the press will recognize
191
