Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 27
ration on our part for him. He was one
of the senior Governors also, a young
man. And he gave me sound advice, and
we formed a partnership then and a
friendship that has been staunch.
When I was elected President, I par-
ticularly wanted Ken Curtis to come and
take on this job. I have to tell you in com-
plete confidence that he did it as a favor
to me. He did not want to leave Maine.
He wanted to stay there and not move to
what he considers the Deep South of
Washington. [Laughter] But I told him
that we needed him. And Bob Strauss had
laid a good groundwork, leading up to a
superb choice by the American people last
November, a year ago [laughter]
and I told him that we needed to consoli-
date what had been done and to bridge
the gap between a Democratic National
Committee with a Republican in the
White House, with the quite different
circumstance of a Democratic National
Committee with a Democrat in the White
House.
We were still saddled with an unfortu-
nate debt left over from 1968 which had
been $92 million, approximately, and
which had been cut down a little more
than half. And Ken Curtis has, I think,
brought the Democratic Party together.
He's kept an open door; he's given every-
body a chance to speak. He's given me
great support, along with your help. He's
cut that debt half again, and I think it's
down to manageable terms now. And I'm
deeply grateful to him.
Ken Curtis told me last October
that he wanted to go back to Maine,
and with some surprise and regret I told
him that I would certainly accede to his
wishes. He leaves here with his head high
and with the Democratic Party proud of
what he's done.
We've now been fortunate in bringing
to our committee, with your help, a new
chairman who has a different background,
different experience, but who can con-
tinue the tremendous growth and influ-
ence of the Democratic Party through your
leadership.
John White is a man who is known in
Texas as Mr. Democrat. He supported
John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson; be-
fore that, Adlai Stevenson. He headed up
George McGovern's campaign. He sup-
ported Hubert Humphrey. He supported
Lloyd Bentsen and [laughter]—and suc-
cessfully supported Jimmy Carter in 1976.
[Laughter]
He has, I think, the complete integrity
and the knowledge of politics that comes
from a man who is idealistic, liberal to
moderate in the finest sense of those words,
who's not afraid to tackle the difficult
political challenge when called upon to do
so by his duty, and his belief in the pur-
poses and principles of the Democratic
Party, and who has proved his own at-
traction among the Texas people, I think,
13 times when he was reelected to serve
as commissioner of agriculture. And I
think next November he's going to take a
lot of freshmen and sophomore Demo-
cratic Members of Congress and help them
to start on an equally long career of at
least 13 terms, and we're going to all work
together for that purpose.
He's also well trained to fit into the en-
vironment of a Democratic National Com-
mittee. I was particularly convinced of
that a week or two ago when I saw a
photograph in the Washington Post-
[laughter]-where his office had been filled
with farmers, he was hanging on the win-
dowsill by his fingernails-[laughter]—
and still trying to convince them that the
Department of Agriculture, the President,
that Congress were concerned about farm
problems. So, I think he'll fit in well over
here at the DNC headquarters. [Laughter]
And I think he can handle the disparate
225
