Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 21
port and encourage political systems that
allow their people to participate freely
and democratically in the decisions that
affect their lives.
This past year has seen a measure of
progress. In many countries, political
prisoners have been released, states of
seige have been lifted, or constraints on
freedom of the press have been loosened.
In the coming year, we hope for more
progress. For many in Latin America, the
struggle has just begun. But the direction
of history toward the expansion of human
rights is clear. Where basic human rights
are concerned, all of our governments
must be accountable not only to our own
citizens but to the conscience of the world.
The economic system: We must also
devote our common energies to economic
development and the cause of social jus-
tice. Benefits of the world's economy must
be more fairly shared, but the responsibili-
ties must be shared as well.
In many ways, economic issues will be
our most important foreign policy con-
cerns in the coming year. We plan to give
increased emphasis, much more than we
have in the past, to those economic issues
which most directly affect the developing
countries, particularly trade and aid.
We have not moved far enough or fast
enough in the United States Govern-
ment in the past. Many of you have not
been aggressive enough in alleviating eco-
nomic disparities and abuses in the system
which we help to control. We've not
spoken often enough nor candidly enough
with each other. We must take every op-
portunity to work with all nations on these
fundamental issues, and we must find new
ways to discuss them, not through public
confrontation, through the news media,
but through quiet, substantive, deter-
mined negotiation to bring about steady
progress designed to reach common goals.
Trade policy will become more and
more important as your economies con-
tinue their transformation, which is
inevitable, with manufactured goods mak-
ing up a larger and larger proportion of
your production and exports.
I have fought hard to resist protec-
tionism, a subject which the President
mentioned a few minutes ago, and I will
continue to do so. Within the Organiza-
tion of Economic Cooperation and De-
velopment, the OECD, we've urged the
healthier economies to grow faster so as
to expand markets for your exports. In
the multilateral trade negotiations, we
seek to reduce barriers to those exports.
In return, we ask you to join with us in
negotiating a reduction of tariff and non-
tariff barriers.
Many of your countries whose voices
could be heard and could be of great in-
fluence do not play an active role in nego-
tiating the reduction of those very tariffs
which work against the best interests of
the people whom you represent. We ask
you to join with us in negotiating a reduc-
tion in tariffs and nontariff barriers.
The middle-income developing coun-
tries, some of you, have a special respon-
sibility, along with us, a very powerful,
economically developed country, to help
widen world trade by opening your mar-
kets to exports from other developing and
industrial countries.
Some of your economies are now large
and dynamic enough to provide for both
domestic consumption and exports at the
same time. By giving priority to creating
jobs, you can alleviate poverty while stim-
ulating your own economies.
The industrial countries should help
to stimulate this growth. As one step to
this end, we propose to create a founda-
tion for technological collaboration,
which will help to develop and share
the skills which are needed for economic
and social growth. The challenge of eco-
nomic development is to help the world's
poor lift themselves out of misery. We
1145
