May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
important domestic issue, overwhelm-
ingly, in the minds of the American peo-
ple, the Congress, and myself, is to con-
trol inflation.
We've had remarkable success, un-
precedented and unanticipated success in
cutting down on the unemployment rate
the last 16 months. We've added a net
total of 52 million jobs since I've been
in office, because of the good work of the
Congress and a very good working rela-
tionship with the private sector and the
natural inclination of American people of
all kind to work if they have a chance to
hold a job.
The unemployment rate, as you know,
has dropped about 2 percent. But the
first 4 months of this year, we've had dis-
turbing reports on inflation trends which
really hurt the poor and the fixed in-
comed, the retired, the lower wage level
workers in our country more than anyone
else.
And we are trying to get the private
sector, both professional people-account-
ants, doctors, lawyers, others to hold
down on their own salary increases, their
charges.
I met with the retail merchants of the
country, the American Federation of
Retail Merchants, this week. I met with
the leaders of the labor movements this
week, and last week met with the leaders
of the business community, to try to get
them to join with us not with wage and
price controls, mandated, but with a
voluntary commitment on their part to
cut down on the rate of increase of wages
and prices, other charges, below what it
was the last 2 years.
In other words, '78 would be lower than
the average of the last 2 years-not a diffi-
cult thing for them to do if we all work in
harmony.
Each group, I think, has some concern
about what everybody else is going to do.
Nobody wants to make a unilateral effort
at some sacrifice to them if they think the
Government is going to go ahead and
spend too much money or the deficit is
going to grow, or labor is not going to
help if they don't think business will
help also. So, I think we can make some
progress there.
We are trying to deal with the Federal
bureaucracy, which is a difficult thing for
any administrator. And I think our civil
service reform proposal is a keystone to all
the reorganization that I will do while
I'm in office.
It also is crucial in the employment of
minority American citizens and also
women. As you know, we have a very low
percentage of Spanish-speaking Ameri-
cans who are employed by the Federal
Government. We have a very low per-
centage of other minority groups and also
women who are employed by the Federal
Government.
And the major obstacle to improving
this record is the ancient civil service laws
that won't let a qualified person be em-
ployed. Now, for instance, if we have an
opening in Houston, Texas, and a Mexi-
can American citizen scored a hundred
on the test, they might very well be 50th
on the list of people to get the job because
of
many reasons, one of which is veterans
preference.
I happen to be a veteran and there
are tens of millions of Americans who
are also veterans like myself. But I
see no reason for a person who serves 20
years in the Navy, who retires as a com-
mander, who has a very good retirement
income guaranteed for life, to come in
and bump a person off the employment
list for a Federal job just because he
served, to his advantage, in the Navy.
We are preserving the veterans prefer-
ence for those who have served within the
last 10 years. This would take care of all
those who have served in the Vietnam
war, and for those who are disabled.
902
