Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 19
Federal Emergency Management
Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978.
June 19, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am transmitting Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 3 of 1978. The Plan im-
proves Federal emergency management
and assistance. By consolidating emer-
gency preparedness, mitigation and re-
sponse activities, it cuts duplicative ad-
ministrative costs and strengthens our
ability to deal effectively with emer-
gencies.
The Plan, together with changes I will
make through executive action, would
merge five agencies from the Depart-
ments of Defense, Commerce, HUD and
GSA into one new agency.
For the first time, key emergency man-
agement and assistance functions would
be unified and made directly accountable
to the President and Congress. This will
reduce pressures for increased costs to
serve similar goals.
The present situation has severely ham-
pered Federal support of State and local
emergency organizations and resources,
which bear the primary responsibility for
preserving life and property in times of
calamity. This reorganization has been
developed in close cooperation with State
and local governments.
If approved by the Congress, the Plan
will establish the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, whose Director
shall report directly to the President. The
National Fire Prevention and Control
Administration (in the Department of
Commerce), the Federal Insurance Ad-
ministration (in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development) and
oversight responsibility for the Federal
emergency broadcast system (now as-
signed in the Executive Office of the
President) would be transferred to the
Agency. The Agency's Director, its Dep-
uty Director, and its five principal pro-
gram managers would be appointed by
the President with the advice and consent
of the Senate.
If the Plan takes effect, I will assign to
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency all authorities and functions
vested by law in the President and pres-
ently delegated to the Defense Civil Pre-
paredness Agency (in the Department of
Defense). This will include certain engi-
neering and communications support
functions for civil defense now assigned
to the U.S. Army.
I will also transfer to the new Agency
all authorities and functions under the
Disaster Relief Acts of 1970 and 1974 now
delegated to the Federal Disaster Assist-
ance Administration in the Department
of Housing and Urban Development.
I will also transfer all Presidential au-
thorities and functions now delegated to
the Federal Preparedness Agency in the
General Services Administration, includ-
ing the establishment of policy for the
National Stockpile. The stockpile dis-
posal function, which is statutorily as-
signed to the General Services Adminis-
tration, would remain there. Once these
steps have been taken by Executive
Order, these three agencies would be
abolished.
Several additional transfers of emer-
gency preparedness and mitigation func-
tions would complete the consolidation.
These include:
Oversight of the Earthquake Haz-
ards Reduction Program, under Public
Law 95-124, now carried out by the
Office of Science and Technology Policy
in the Executive Office of the President.
1129
