Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Grain Reserve
must remove unnecessary barriers to ex-
Last year we initiated a plan to place ports. And we must have an affirmative
30-35 million metric tons of food and feed
grains in reserve. Establishing this reserve
will add further strength and stability to
the market and provide a hedge against
export control on grain. Most of this
grain will be owned and controlled by
farmers. To strengthen farmer control of
the grain and to help keep the grain out
of government ownership, terms of the
farmer storage facility loan program were
liberalized. In 1978, the Administration
will propose an international emergency
grain reserve of up to 6 million metric tons
to help us meet our food aid commit-
ments abroad.
Agricultural Disaster and Drought Aid
Because of the record droughts in 1977,
I worked with Congress to pass an $844
million Emergency Drought Assistance
Program. This year we will ask Congress
to eliminate the many inconsistencies and
inequities in existing disaster aid pro-
grams, and we will continue to give high
priority to addressing the effects of the
drought, which has begun to abate.
We are taking other steps to improve
life in rural America. I recently signed a
law to encourage better delivery of health
services in rural communities. We will
continue to expand the assignment of the
National Health Service Corps' doctors,
dentists and other health professionals to
underserved rural areas. We will shortly
be announcing methods to improve the
effectiveness of rural housing programs
with greater emphasis on home owner-
ship for rural Americans.
Agricultural Exports
I want to increase our agricultural ex-
ports. To do so we need competitive
prices, high quality products, and reserve
supplies to meet all contingencies. We
export policy. In 1977, the Administra-
tion more than doubled (to $1.7 billion)
the short-term export credit program, in-
creased Soviet grain purchase authoriza-
tion to 15 millions tons, developed a risk
assurance program, and expanded efforts
to develop export markets around the
world.
This year we will continue these ef-
forts, especially to reduce barriers to agri-
cultural trade.
Sugar
To stabilize world sugar prices and to
protect domestic sugar-producers, we
negotiated an international sugar agree-
ment this year with the major sugar-
producing countries. We will seek Con-
gressional ratification of the agreement
early in 1978. The sugar program re-
quired by the 1977 Food and Agricul-
tural Act will protect the domestic sugar
industry in the meantime.
Rural Development and Credit Policy
In fiscal year 1977, the Farmers Home
Administration provided nearly $7 billion
in loans in four areas: farming, housing,
community facilities and business and in-
dustrial development. We expect to pro-
vide at least $1 billion more in the cur-
rent fiscal year.
SMALL BUSINESS
This Administration took several steps
in 1977 to strengthen small business. The
Small Business Administration expanded
its financial and management assistance
to these firms and developed an advocacy
program to represent small business inter-
ests before all Federal departments and
agencies. In 1978, we will continue efforts
to support small business through tax cuts
and special tax incentives, reduced regu-
102
