Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 26, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
May 19, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. Thank you very much for coming to
the White House to see us. Bill [William
Shipp, Atlanta Constitution], how are
you doing? How are things in Atlanta?
What I'd like to do just for a very brief
period of time is to outline a few of the
items that are involved in my duties, both
in the Congress and internationally, and
then answer your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We've lately been trying to deal satis-
factorily, and within the complete bounds
of the law, with the question of Zaire
and the invasion of Zaire by Katanganese
who came in from Angola.
We have a very limited role to play
there. We are involved in providing some
logistical support for removing, because
of humanitarian reasons, some of the na-
tionalists-nationals who are located in
the Kolwezi area. The French and Bel-
gians, with the support and participation
of the Mobuto Zairian Government, are
attempting to evacuate those nationals
whose lives are endangered. We are pro-
viding support only in the noncombat
zone. The nearest approach, I think, to
Kolwezi by our airplanes is about 200
kilometers.
This would be a limited involvement.
We've consulted very closely with the
Members of Congress, and I'm sure that
it will be successful.
We've also been approaching the Con-
gress on some other foreign policy mat-
ters this year. Two major ones that have
already been resolved are the Panama
Canal treaties and the sale to the Mid-
east countries of arms.
We've also decided to ask Congress to
terminate the Turkey arms embargo,
which I consider to be a crucial decision
for the strengthening of ties between
Greece and NATO-between Turkey
and NATO, between Greece and Tur-
key, and to help us resolve the Cyprus
issue.
We will be preparing I've spent a
lot of time preparing for a NATO con-
ference here, the last days of this month.
It will be much broader in scope than
previous NATO conferences. The heads
of the nations will be here with me,
around this very table at times, and will
analyze the long-range thrust of the
NATO defense agreements and resolve
937
