Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Since 1973 McGarry has been special
counsel on elections to the Committee on
House Administration of the U.S. House
of Representatives.
Zagoria was born April 9, 1919, in
Somerville, N.J. He was a reporter and an
editor for the Washington Post for 10
years and was a 1954 Nieman Fellow at
Harvard University. He served for 10
years as administrative assistant to Sen-
ator Clifford Case of New Jersey.
Zagoria is a former member of the
National Labor Relations Board. He is
now director of the Labor-Management
Relations Service, which is sponsored by
the U.S. Conference of Mayors to provide
leaders of local government with informa-
tion and education on municipal labor-
management relations.
Energy Conservation
Programs
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. April 7, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am hereby transmitting the first an-
nual report required to be submitted to
the Congress by Section 381 (c) of the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act,
Public Law 94-163, and required to be
prepared by the Federal Energy Adminis-
tration, now the Department of Energy,
with the assistance of appropriate agen-
cies under Executive Order 11912 of
April 13, 1976.
This report covers the implementing
activities and actions undertaken during
1976 by Federal Agencies in establishing
mandatory Federal Procurement policies
and standards with respect to energy con-
servation and efficiency, developing a 10-
year plan for energy conservation in fed-
erally-owned or leased buildings, carrying
out a responsible public education pro-
gram to encourage energy conservation,
vanpooling and carpooling arrangements,
and acquiring fuel-efficient passenger
automobiles for the Federal fleet.
The White House,
April 7, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to Con-
gress, Implementation of Energy Conservation
Programs Within the Federal Government Pur-
suant to the Energy Policy and Conservation
Act, July 1977" (37 pages plus appendices).
United States-Hungary
Trade Relations
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. April 7, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
In accordance with Section 407 of the
Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting a
copy of a proclamation extending non-
discriminatory treatment to the products
of the Hungarian People's Republic. I
also enclose the text of the Agreement on
Trade Relations between the United
States of America and the Hungarian
People's Republic, which was signed on
March 17, 1978, and which is included
as an annex to the proclamation.
I am also enclosing a copy of my report
to the Congress pursuant to Section 402
(c) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974. I shall
issue today an Executive Order waiving
the application of subsections (a) and
(b) of Section 402.
The Agreement on Trade Relations
should continue the development of our
economic relations with Hungary, to our
actual benefit, by placing our trade on a
704
