Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
than Carl Perkins, certainly, who under-
stands the problems of coal and coal min-
ing, than did this Representative in the
Congress.
Now, if I've spoken too long, it's only
to express appreciation to all the Mem-
bers of the Congress who worked since
'69, including now, '78, on this vital legis-
lation, and to express the belief that when
you, Mr. President, with your close atten-
tion to these later bills, which really sum-
marize what has been done—and these
are very vital because of the changeover
that takes place that justice has been
done, and these men, their survivors will
live with more dignity and with comfort
and, yes, with faith in America.
THE PRESIDENT. Congressman Perkins
is not here, and I'm very sorry that he
can't be, because he's devoted a major
part of his effort to this legislation, as has
been so generously recognized by Senator
Randolph. But Frank Thompson is here.
Frank, perhaps you'd like to say a word.
REPRESENTATIVE THOMPSON. Mr.
President, I'd like to express my deep ap-
preciation to you for your interest and the
cooperation that we had from your ad-
ministration on this, to my colleagues in
the other body, to my House Members. It
fell upon me to introduce the substitute
at my distinguished friend and chairman's
request, Carl Perkins.
And happily, the substitute carried
healthily, as did the conference report.
This is a great day of joy for me and for
my distinguished New Jersey colleague,
Senator Williams, chairman of the Senate
committee. We don't have much coal
mining in New Jersey, Mr. President, but
we sure use a lot of it, and we need it.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, almost all of the
Members of Congress here could make a
very heartfelt statement about this legis-
lation. The bills that have been passed in
other years, 1969 and before, only set up
temporary programs. And one thing that
hasn't been mentioned is that this now
makes these programs permanent.
There's no future threat, I don't be-
lieve, that the coal miners would be de-
prived of this fair and just right to expect
compensation for their suffering.
I want to express again my thanks to
all of you. It's always difficult to know
whom to call on to speak and whom to
ignore. But I think in my choice this
morning, you've heard the eloquence and
the deep feelings of both the House and
Senate expressed.
Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:33 a.m. at
the signing ceremony in the State Dining Room
at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 4544 is Public Law 95-239,
approved March 1.
Department of State and
International Communication
Agency
Nomination of Alice Stone Ilchman To Be an
Assistant Secretary of State and an Associate
Director of the Agency. March 1, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Alice Stone Ilchman, of
Wellesley, Mass., to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of State. She would replace Joseph
Duffey, and her area of responsibility
would be educational and cultural affairs.
The President also announced that he
will nominate Ilchman to be an Associate
Director of the International Communi-
cation Agency.
Ilchman was born April 18, 1935, in
Cincinnati, Ohio. She received a B.A.
from Mount Holyoke College in 1957, an
M.P.A. from Maxwell School of Citizen-
ship, Syracuse University, in 1958, and a
Ph.D. from London School of Economics
in 1965.
434
