Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
stitutions into community treatment cen-
ters where the retarded child or other
person with mental problems could live
at home and have 8 or 10 hours a day to
utilize what talents God had given them.
I think we established about 85 of
those around the State during the 4-year
period. In addition, we had a heavy em-
phasis on the problems that are caused by
alcoholism and drugs. And, as you know,
the foremost Senate proponent of cor-
recting or addressing the alcohol and
drug problem just also happens to be Bill
Hathaway. He's been
He's been an innovator
there, particularly the effect of excessive
uses of alcohol and drugs on a mother
before a child is born.
My wife is heading up the Commis-
sion that you referred to that will make a
report to me in April. One of the things
they asked for was a heavy increase in
research and development funds, even in
the new upcoming budget. And we've ad-
vocated, I think, $39 million to start a
much more heavy research program in
mental health.
So, I would say that on a Federal level
we would emphasize these major things
just similar to what we did when I was
Governor of Georgia. And many other
States are already doing these things. We
have a need for increased funding. We
had the title IV (a) program, as you
know, a while back where local people
could set up in an abandoned house or
storefront a place for retarded or other
mentally afflicted people. And we had a
good response there.
I think once you give a local group an
image of what can be done, almost every
family knowing some person with a men-
tal problem can help. So, I would say
prevention, research and development, a
combination of treatment in the physical
and mental health field, an increased use
of paramedical personnel and even non-
trained personnel for rehabilitation and
care, the utilization of Federal funds to
match local and private funds and State
funds in setting up community treatment
centers, those are some of the things that
will be part of a new program. But I'll
have to wait until my wife gets through
with the Commission in April before I
can give you a better answer than that.
AID TO PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS
Q. My name is Joe Hughes, and I live
in Bangor. Mr. President, how do you
feel about Federal aid to parochial
schools?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Joe.
Well, within the bounds of the Con-
stitution of the United States and the rul-
ing of the Federal courts, I'm in favor of
it. We have in our own State, while I was
Governor, authorized the payment of a
certain amount of State money to stu-
dents who went to any of our colleges
in the State, whether they were State-
owned or related to religious institutions.
This was declared constitutional in our
State, and we did it.
We also are providing textbooks and
other assistance to students in parochial
schools. I think that's completely legiti-
mate. As you know, the Congress is re-
strained in its passage of legislation on
that subject because the Supreme Court
and the Federal courts have ruled that
direct aid to religious institutions, even
including schools, is prohibited. I think
it would take a constitutional amend-
ment to completely open up that subject.
So, I would say to summarize that,
within the bounds of Federal court and
constitutional prohibitions, I would be in
favor of giving aid to the parochial school
students whenever possible.
Joe, thank you for that easy question. I
appreciate it. [Laughter]
349
