Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 1
creased coal production must not be ac-
complished at the expense of greater suf-
fering for coal miners and their families.
This bill is another demonstration that
the Federal Government will do all it can
to give miners the support and the fair
treatment that they deserve.
On behalf of the people of our coun-
try and particularly those States where
coal mining is a major industry, I want to
express my deep thanks to the Members
of the Congress, to the members of the
Cabinet, and to other interested persons
who have made this comprehensive legis-
lation—three major bills in the last 6 or 8
months possible to alleviate the afflic-
tion that has for so long been suffered
by the brave and courageous and dedi-
cated and sometimes long-suffering coal
miners of our country.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Senator Randolph, would you like to
say a word?
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
there is a commitment not only of your
administration but of the Congress and,
especially, I think, of the American
people to do justice in connection with
what has now become law. It's been a long
battle, really, to aid the miners and their
survivors. We began in 1969, and that
was the first bill.
Senator Williams, Senator Byrd, Sena-
tor Javits, Senator Stafford, many, many
in the Senate remember those days. We
did that, Mr. President-and I must not
speak too long—we did it one year before
we passed the occupational health and
safety legislation, because it was believed
in the House and in the Senate that this
ments of 1972, where we had relied on the
X-ray, practically without any other proof,
and we brought in pulmonary and respira-
tory ailments as possible proof of black
lung. And then in 1977, we continued
with legislation that, I think, is the finali-
zation of this effort.
And as you and all who are here know,
we have moved from the Federal pay-
ments of the Government, now, to the
tonnages which will be produced by the
miners-50 cents a ton on deep mining,
25 cents a ton on surface mining. And so,
I'm sure Arnold Miller will recognize the
need for productivity of coal, because this
is the manner in which the money will
come in with which the black lung pay-
ments will be made.
This final thought: We believe there
are approximately 170,000 to 190,000
pending and denied cases that will be re-
viewed and, hopefully, acted on as quickly
as possible.
I think this is a good day for America,
Mr. President. It's a day not just of com-
passion, but it's a day of the realization
of the responsibility of people to help those
who deserve help. And I take this mo-
ment—and I'll be forgiven-I want to
say that Anice Floyd stands here at the
left, never missing a day in working on
these matters. And I want to thank her,
because she represents, really, thousands
and thousands of people.
I never am a partisan in the sense of
being, you know, a partisan that goes too
far. [Laughter] But I want to say in the
final days of the enactment of this legis-
Hill, Senator Javits deserves very, very
lation-Bob, and you know it-on the
much credit. He helped us in a very diffi-
cult time, when in the conference it looked
had a priority, this type of work done by as if we might not make it.
the miners.
Then, as you know, and others who are
gathered here—and I express apprecia-
tion to all of them-we had the amend-
And although we had some rather
rough words and I hope Carl Perkins
somehow will know what I've said about
him that no one labored more diligently
433
