Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 17, 1978
Terrorist Attack in Israel
Statement by the President. March 11, 1978
The terrorist attack on a bus today in
Israel was an outrageous act of lawless-
ness and senseless brutality. Criminal acts
such as this advance no cause or political
belief. They inspire only revulsion at the
lack of respect for innocent human life.
NOTE: Members of the Palestinian guerrilla
organization Al Fatah seized a sightseeing bus
north of Tel Aviv and forced it south. They
were stopped by Israeli security forces in
Herzliya. In the aftermath of the attack, 35
Israelis and 9 of the terrorists were dead.
and all of the American people, who share
your sorrow. Please give my personal sym-
pathy to the families of the many who
died and to those who were wounded. I
am particularly distressed that an event
such as this should occur just as you were
preparing to depart on your mission of
peace. I continue to look forward to talk-
ing to you soon and relaying to you in per-
son the deep emotions which this event
has aroused in this country. In the mean-
time, please accept, Mr. Prime Minister,
my deepest and most heartfelt condo-
lences.
JIMMY CARTER
Terrorist Attack in Israel
Letter to Israeli Prime Minister Menahem
Begin. March 11, 1978
Dear Mr. Prime Minister:
It was with a sense of deep personal
shock and moral outrage that I learned of
the cowardly and senseless attack today on
a group of innocent civilians. This brutal
act of terrorism will surely be met with
universal revulsion by all men of con-
science. I know the pain and distress
which you must be experiencing at this
tragic moment, and I offer you the con-
dolences and deep sympathy of myself,
Energy Emergency in Ohio
Statement on Extending the Energy
Emergency Determination. March 13, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Ohio, pur-
suant to Section 110(f) of the Clean Air
Act, I determined on February 11, 1978,
that a regional energy emergency existed
in the State of Ohio of such severity that
a temporary suspension of certain particu-
late control regulations under the Ohio
Air Quality Implementation Plan might
be necessary. I ordered the determination
to be in effect for not more than 30 days
505
