Jan. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
About 30 years before the Normandy
invasion, in the First World War, when
American soldiers arrived in Europe, their
first words as they stepped ashore were,
"Lafayette, we are here."
In Europe now, there are about 30,000
American soldiers and marines who are
buried in Europe from the First World
War. Sixty thousand others are buried
in Europe from the Second World War.
More than 150,000 bodies of American
dead were returned to our own country
to be buried there who lost their lives in
the defense of freedom in Europe.
We are determined, with our noble
allies here, that Europe's freedom will
never again be endangered. We now have
about 200,000 Americans, fighting men,
in Europe to make sure that this threat
is never before us again.
General Donaldson ยน told me that this
is the first time that two Presidents have
ever been together in a memorial to those
who gave their lives in the past. But I
believe that this is symbolic of the un-
shakable bonds which history has seen
bind together American people and the
heroic people of France.
We are proud for what we have done
together. We are sure that our friend-
ship will be everlasting. And it is indeed
a great honor for me, as President of the
United States, to come here to pay hom-
age to the brave men and women of the
past who have ensured our precious free-
dom today.
PRESIDENT GISCARD D'ESTAING. Mr.
President, like all young Frenchmen of
my age, on June 6 I heard the news of
the landings over the radio. That news
spread like wildfire across Paris-"They
have landed." "They" were the Ameri-
ยน Brig. Gen. John W. Donaldson, Officer in
Charge, European Office, American Battle
Monuments Commission.
cans, the British, the Canadians, and the
French, who, on five beaches, had come
to give us back hope and freedom.
You can imagine our impatience and
our pride. The fight was a harsh one.
Here at Omaha, General Bradley's 1st
American Army lost 3,000 men in the first
few hours. It was only after 8 hours strug-
gle that veterans of the 1st American Di-
vision managed to reach the top of the
cliff.
Everyone knows Colonel Taylor's
command-"The only people who are on
the beach are those who are dead and
those who are about to die-we must
move."
All this France remembers. She ex-
presses her gratitude to those who fell for
her freedom, to their families, and all their
friends.
Today, our two peoples join together
in their deep-lying will for peace, but
also in their dedication to liberty-that
liberty which for us is the most precious
of all possessions, which we will never re-
nounce and which would justify, if by
misfortune it became necessary, the great-
est of all sacrifices. That is why we are
ready to work in the pursuit of peace with
all those who want freedom to spread
throughout the world.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:32 a.m. at
the Normandy American Cemetery and Memo-
rial.
Normandy, France
Remarks at the Bayeux Town Hall.
January 5, 1978
Mr. President, Honorable Mayor, distin-
guished and very friendly citizens of
Bayeux:
It is a great honor and privilege for
me, as President of the United States, to
28
