Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
part of the President and the Congress,
it will be honored. And I believe that it's
best for Israel, for us to have this good,
firm, solid, mutually trustful, friendly
relationship with the moderate Arab
leaders.
So, I believe that this proposal that I
have made to Congress is minimal. I hope
and believe the Congress will honor my
recommendation. It will never be in any
way a derogation of Israeli superiority in
the air. They'll still be superior in every
sense of the word. There's no threat to
them.
The Saudis do not want to station these
planes close to Israel. They want to put
them up near Iraq and South Yemen,
where the major threat against Saudi
Arabia might come.
So, the totality of it is that we will go
ahead with this proposal. It's good for us,
it's good for Israel, it's good for peace in
the Middle East. It helps us to keep a
good trade relationship with those coun-
tries involved. It reinforces the commit-
ment of Egypt and Saudi Arabia to look
to us for their future prosperity and se-
curity. And in the whole process we will
keep my honor-my commitment to the
American people, that year by year, com-
pletely contrary to what we've done in
the past, we're going to cut down each
year the quantity of arms we sell overseas.
I'm committed to doing this, and I'm
going to do it.
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
Q. My name is Charlotte Lebsack. Mr.
President, bearing in mind that the money
I am paying into social security for my
retirement is being used now, today, to
pay for the benefits of those individuals
who paid into the program 20 to 30 years
ago, I would like to know what type of
benefits, if any, I can expect to receive
when I retire, and who is going to pay for
them?
THE PRESIDENT. An excellent question.
This is another one of those questions
that I faced when I became President last
year. There are three major reserve funds
that have been set up since the late 1940's
to meet the payment requirements of the
social security system. Two of those re-
serve funds were facing bankruptcy-one
within another year, and the other one
about 3 years later.
So, I studied this question for about 6
months, with the help of many Members
of Congress, and made a proposal to the
Congress, a proposition that we had to
bring some constraint on the over-rapid
increase in benefits that, in effect, doubled
the inflation rate in some respects, and at
the same time provide some firm commit-
ment to finance the social security system
on a permanent basis.
Congress acted last year. They guar-
anteed that the social security system will
not go into bankruptcy. This was neces-
sary so that for the next 25 years, if the
Congress doesn't change the law any fur-
ther, benefits will be guaranteed and those
reserve funds will build up very slowly
but steadily in the quantity of money
available and there will be no threat to
the social security system in years to come.
The people don't like to pay any more
in social security payments, I realize that.
But the amount that will be increased for
you, the average American citizen, over
the next 10 years is very, very tiny. The
ones who will have a substantial social
security increased payment to make are
those that make $20,000, $25, $30, $35,
or $40,000. And in the process of paying
more, they also will have a higher base
on which to derive benefits once they re-
tire. It's a good investment for them.
So, you can rest assured that the social
security will be sound. We've got accurate
projections on how many people will be
867
