Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
faithfulness of governments is tested.
Democracy is indeed a compelling idea,
an idea so attractive that even its enemies
now attempt to cloak repression with false
democratic labels.
But our democratic order has come
under challenge. There are those who
question whether democratic values are
appropriate for contemporary circum-
stances. Voices in the developing world
ask whether notions of free speech, per-
sonal liberty, freely chosen governments
should not be pushed aside in the struggle
to overcome poverty. Voices in the indus-
trialized world ask whether democracy
equips us for the frenzied pace of change
in our own modern lives.
We've heard warnings that a demo-
cratic society cannot impose on itself the
restraint and self-discipline which is nec-
essary to cope with persistent economic
problems. We've heard that the disparate
elements of our societies cannot cohere in
a democratic system. Governments every-
where have begun to seem remote and
impersonal, incompetent. Many people
question whether any government can
hear their distant and solitary voices.
These problems are real, and we must
admit their existence. But we must also
bear the burden that democratic society
imposes on those like us who are part of it.
That is to proclaim our unshaken faith
in the values of our democratic nations
and our belief that those values are still
relevant to the rich and the poor, the
North and South, East and West, as con-
stant now as they were when our fore-
bears signed the Declaration of Independ-
ence and your forebears proclaimed the
Declaration of the Rights of Man.
We defend these values because they
are right, because there is no higher pur-
pose for the state than to preserve these
rights for its citizens. But we defend them
also in the faith that there is no con-
tradiction between preserving our dem-
ocratic values on the one hand and meet-
ing challenges which face our modern
societies.
It's precisely when democracy is up
against difficult challenges that its leaders
must show firmness in resisting the temp-
tation of finding solutions in nondemo-
cratic forces.
This week, in India, I discussed our be-
lief that only through respect for indi-
vidual liberties can developing nations
achieve their full economic and political
potential. That is our faith. And India,
the world's largest democracy-they are
proving that it is still true.
Here in France we meet as industrial-
ized powers to affirm that our confidence
in a democratic future for these developed
societies is equally strong.
It's also the system that is the most con-
Democracy is not merely right and just.
sistent with human nature. It's the most
effective way to organize society for the
common good.
Where the state dominates everything,
only the narrow talents of the bureaucrat
are free to flower. But the pluralistic so-
ciety that exists within a democracy al-
lows for a broad range to succeed-in
government, in the arts, in labor, in tech-
nology, in the sciences, and in the mar-
ketplace as well.
Democracy unleashes the innate cre-
ative energy of each of us. We need look
no further back than the last three dec-
ades to see unparalleled success. These
years have been extraordinary in the time
for France, for Western Europe, the
United States, and other democratic na-
tions.
France and its partners in Western
Europe rose from the destruction and the
turmoil of World War II to build econo-
mies and societies more thriving and pro-
22
