May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and early stage of your life. But you're
also lucky, and you shouldn't take this
recognition of achievement as an end in
itself. You're fortunate because you had
an access to books and to a good educa-
tion program. You're fortunate that you
had a President 15 years ago who believed
very deeply in education himself. He
didn't go naturally from high school di-
rectly into college. He had to work. He
got his education, to a major degree, be-
cause of his own ability to earn an aca-
demic scholarship. He came to the White
House by a torturous and difficult route.
But when he got here as a former teacher
himself, he knew the advantage of a good
educational system.
I came to Washington for the first time
as an official in 1965. I was in the State
senate. And the Elementary and Second-
ary Education Act of 1965 was being con-
sidered. John Gardner was the Secretary
of HEW. President Johnson was the
leader of our Nation. And he established
this program as an additional executive
decision to honor young people who had
achieved a notable degree of merit in
academic work.
It's a great pleasure for me to welcome
you here to the White House, the center
of our Government, and to let you know
that I not only congratulate you on your
achievement so far, but I expect great
things from you in the future. You've
been blessed with superior intelligence
and opportunity not only because the
Nation in which you happen to live
pro-
vides freedom to express yourselves as in-
dividuals, but you've also been honored
by your fellow Americans. And I hope
you will accept this honor today as an ad-
ditional instigation to achieve even more
in the future and to recognize those who
are not so fortunate as you, who haven't
been blessed with a good educational op-
portunity or a sound, stable family life or
a freedom to explore new dimensions of
one's mind and one's heart.
Today I would like to make a special
award to the family of the President who's
responsible for this occasion, President
Lyndon Johnson. He was a man with ex-
treme patriotism to our country. He was
a man who recognized with an open heart
the defects that existed in it. He believed
in equality of opportunity, in human
rights in its finest form, and in the fact
that our future rests on the shoulders of
young people like you.
We invited Lady Bird Johnson to be
here with us today. She couldn't come.
My wife will be with her tomorrow in
Texas. But we have been honored by hav-
ing Lieutenant Governor Chuck Robb [of
Virginia] and his wife, Lynda, who will
come forward now and receive a plaque
in recognition of the tremendous con-
tribution in this program and in many
other hundreds of ways that President
Lyndon Johnson made to our country as
a public servant in many ways. And I
thank them for being here. I think you
notice that they are providing an oppor-
tunity for a future Presidential honors
award, and I'm thankful for it.
This is a plaque which you can see, I
think, clearly, a picture of the White
House where President Johnson lived.
"Presented by President Jimmy Carter in
honor of the contributions to education
by President Lyndon Baines Johnson on
the 15th anniversary of the Presidential
Scholars Program. The White House,
May 25, 1978.
LYNDA JOHNSON ROBB. I know my
father would be very proud of all of you.
The thing he was the most proud of was
the young people of this country and the
education, the opportunities that they
had and what he expected from all of
us. I know he'd be very happy to be
honored today in the ceremony such as
970
