June 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Both these proposals apply basically to the
desire of some Members of the Congress
to remove part of the income of very
wealthy taxpayers from the minimum tax.
A few years ago, the Congress very
wisely said that if there were loopholes
or provisions in the tax law that let a
wealthy person avoid paying any tax, they
would at least have to pay some tax under
the new minimum tax laws. And the
Steiger amendment and the Jones amend-
ment, part of it, refers to that basic prin-
ciple. I disagree with the Steiger and
Jones proposal.
Ms. Woodruff [Judy Woodruff, NBC
News].
Q. If these proposals, if these plans, the
Steiger bill and the Jones bill, are as on-
erous as you suggest, then why have so
many Members of Congress, including so
many Democrats, come around in support
of them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we don't have
any clear indication of that. They do have
enough support to cause me concern. My
guess is that when the Congress becomes
acquainted with which taxpayers in our
country benefit—that is, the very wealthy
taxpayers and how they give no relief to
the average and middle-income families,
my guess is that the Congress will reject
this proposal.
Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied that
your tax cut and your tax reform plan
were sufficiently fair for middle-income
taxpayers?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think they were
eminently fair, and my preference, of
course, is that my original proposal would
be adopted. My guess is that the Congress
will not adopt my tax reform proposals in
their entirety.
WHITE HOUSE VISITORS
Q. Mr. President, sir, you've extended
White House hospitality to a variety of
people, including jazz musicians and
prizefighters. Could you tell us why you
haven't invited Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn or,
in another category, Howard Jarvis or, in
another category, your fellow Southern
Baptist Convention speaker, Anita Bryant,
or do you approve of-disapprove of the
positions of these people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't have any
inclination now to say whether I approve
or disapprove of what they do. I'm sure
they've all done things of which I do ap-
prove and they probably have all done
things of which I disapprove. But there
are-
Q. You wouldn't subscribe to original
sin, then. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. There are 220 million
people in America, and there's a limit to
how many we can invite. [Laughter] But
we'll continue our invitations in the future
and maybe somedays get around to those
whom you offer as a possibility.
Q. Anita Bryant said to the Southern
Baptist Convention that Midge Costanza
came down and intruded herself into the
Dade County ordinance struggle.
Was that at your direction or was that
Midge's kind of spontaneity?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't know that she
went to Dade County. If she did, it was
not at my direction.
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, given the seriousness
of the inflation problem, do you still plan
to offer a comprehensive national health
program, and if so, when? What's your
current thinking on that problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Within the next few
days I will direct the Secretary of HEW
to comply with principles that I outlined
to him in the preparation of a national
health proposal. The implementation of
it, and the passage of it by Congress be-
fore it's implemented, will have to accom-
modate budget constraints and the atti-
tude of both the Congress and the Amer-
ican people.
1186
