Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and seventy-eight, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:50 p.m., April 7, 1978]
NOTE: The annex is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of April 11, 1978.
National Advisory Council on
Economic Opportunity
Appointment of Six Members. April 7, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of six persons as members
of the National Advisory Council on
Economic Opportunity for terms ex-
piring September 22, 1980. The Council
is a 21-member advisory council affiliated
with the Community Services Admin-
istration. Those appointed are:
HANNAH HUME BAIRD, of Florence, Ky., who
is active in community affairs such as the
Northern Kentucky Human Services Plan-
ning Council and the Northern Kentucky
Area Development District Human Serv-
ices Advisory Board;
WILLIAM M. DALEY, a Chicago attorney;
Ms. L. C. DORSEY, of Jackson, Miss., ex-
ecutive director of the Mississippi Council
on Human Relations and associate director
of the Southern Coalition on Jails and
Prisons;
Hazel N. Dukes, of Roslyn Heights, N.Y.,
president of the New York State Conference
of Branches of the NAACP and direc-
tor of administrative services for the New
York City Off-Track Betting Corp.;
GEOFFREY FAUX, of Whitefield, Maine, an
economist and codirector of the Exploratory
Project for Economic Alternatives;
W. PHILIP MCLAURIN, of Portland, Oreg.,
ombudsman for the State of Oregon and
former acting director of the City of Port-
land Training and Employment Division,
Human Resources Bureau.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
April 1
While in Lagos, Nigeria, the President
attended a cultural program at Tafawa
Balewa Square.
April 2
Following his meetings with General
Obasanjo, the President went to the
Nigerian Port Authority, where he
boarded Maris III for a cruise to Tin Can
Island, in Lagos Harbor, for a tour of the
new port facility.
April 3
The President met on the East Patio
of the State House Marina with em-
ployees of the American Embassy in
Nigeria and members of their families. He
then proceeded to Murtala Muhammed
Airport, where he was joined by Gen-
eral Obasanjo for the departure cerc-
mony, and then left Nigeria for his visit to
Liberia.
Following his luncheon with President
Tolbert, the President visited the Peace
Corps headquarters in Monrovia. He then
proceeded to Roberts International Air-
port, where he was joined by President
Tolbert for the departure ceremony be-
fore his return trip to the United States.
April 4
The President met at the White House
with Hans-Dietrich Genscher, Foreign
Minister of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many. They discussed enhanced radiation
weapons, among other topics.
709
