Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 3
were all determined to present a shining
new example to the world.
The United States gave the world an
illustration of a new form of government,
with a new relation between the citizen
and the state-a relation in which the
state exists to serve the citizen, and not
the citizen to serve the state.
India experimented with creating polit-
ical unity from overwhelming human di-
versity, enabling people of different cul-
tures and languages and religions to work
together, both in independence and also
in freedom. Yours is an experiment whose
success the world is celebrating anew.
The declaration that we have just
signed, or will sign, commits to paper
what has long been written in our hearts.
It proclaims our belief that each individ-
ual has inalienable rights, our commit-
ment to justice among nations and within
societies, and our determination that dis-
putes must be resolved without violence,
especially in this age when nuclear wea-
pons threaten the total destruction of hu-
mankind. Above all else, we affirm that
states, like individuals, bear moral respon-
sibilities for their acts.
Yesterday, before your Parliament, I
said that whatever the differences be-
tween our nations, we are moving along
the path toward a common goal of hu-
man development and human rights.
As I prepare to leave India, reluctantly,
today, I'm thankful to know that with this
declaration we have taken another step
toward that path of friendship and mu-
tual commitment.
Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. in
Ashoka Hall at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.
Earlier in the morning, President and Mrs.
Carter visited the farming village of Daulatabad
Nasirabad, which was officially renamed Carter-
puri (Carter Place) in honor of their visit.
New Delhi, India
Text of the Delhi Declaration.
January 3, 1978
India and the United States of Amer-
ica, despite differences of history and cul-
ture, are one in the recognition that the
ultimate sanction of power and of public
policy rests in the respect for the dignity
and well-being of the individual. Regard-
less of race, sex, religion or social status,
every human being is entitled to life and
liberty, to freedom from want and, with-
out threat or coercion, to freedom of ex-
pression and worship.
We share an unwavering faith in the
democratic form of government, which
guarantees to all citizens fundamental
freedoms under law and the right to
choose their representatives and deter-
mine their own future.
At the same time, we believe that a co-
operative and stable world order depends
on the right of each people to determine
its own form of government and each na-
tion its own political, social and economic
policies.
We are gratified that the process of de-
colonization has democratized the inter-
national state-system, giving most nations
for the first time an opportunity to par-
ticipate in making decisions relating to
international peace and cooperation.
The disparities in economic strength
that exist among nations must be bridged
and a more equitable international eco-
nomic order fashioned if we are to secure
international peace.
We recognize that broad economic de-
velopment is essential for a modern state,
but also that such progress is hollow if its
benefits do not reach all the people.
The present-day world commands sci-
entific and technological skills to enrich
the quality of life and give greater social
17
