Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 20
States Government authorization and su-
pervision or regulation.
-Advances in Earth imaging from
space will be permitted under controls
and when such needs are justified and as-
sessed in relation to civil benefits, national
security, and foreign policy. Controls, as
appropriate, on other forms of remote
Earth sensing will be established.
-Data and results from the civil space
programs will be provided the widest
practical dissemination to improve the
condition of human beings on Earth and
to provide improved space services for the
United States and other nations of the
world.
-The United States will develop, man-
age, and operate a fully operational Space
Transportation System (STS) through
NASA, in cooperation with the Depart-
ment of Defense. The STS will service all
authorized space users domestic and
foreign, commercial and governmental—
and will provide launch priority and nec-
essary security to national security mis-
sions while recognizing the essentially open
character of the civil space program.
Our national security related space pro-
grams will conduct those activities in space
which are necessary to our support of such
functions as command and control, com-
munications, navigation, environmental
monitoring, warning and surveillance, and
space defense, as well as to support the
formulation and execution of national po-
licies; and to support the planning for and
conduct of military operations. These pro-
grams will be conducted within the fol-
lowing guidelines:
-Security, including dissemination of
data, shall be conducted in accordance
with Executive orders and applicable di-
rectives for protection of national security
information. Space-related products and
technology shall be afforded lower or no
classification where possible to permit
wider use of our total national space
capability.
-The Secretary of Defense will estab-
lish a program for identifying and inte-
grating, as appropriate, civil and commer-
cial resources into military operations
during national emergencies declared by
the President.
—Survivability of space systems will be
pursued commensurate with the planned
need in crisis and war and the availability
of other assets to perform the mission.
Identified deficiencies will be eliminated,
and an aggressive, long-term program will
be applied to provide more assured sur-
vivability through evolutionary changes to
space systems.
-The United States finds itself under
increasing pressure to field an antisatel-
lite capability of its own in response to
Soviet activities in this area. By exercis-
ing mutual restraint, the United States
and the Soviet Union have an opportu-
nity at this early juncture to stop an un-
healthy arms competition in space before
the competition develops a momentum of
its own. The two countries have com-
menced bilateral discussions on limiting
certain activities directed against space
objects, which we anticipate will be con-
sistent with the overall U.S. goal of main-
taining any nation's right of passage
through and operations in space without
interference.
-While the United States seeks verifi-
able, comprehensive limits on antisatel-
lite capabilities and use, in the absence of
such an agreement, the United States will
vigorously pursue development of its own
capabilities. The U.S. space defense pro-
gram shall include an integrated attack
warning, notification, verification, and
contingency reaction capability which can
effectively detect and react to threats to
U.S. space systems.
1137
