Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 20
and the apparent abuse that Mrs. Orlov
suffered during the conduct of the trial.
We've expressed our concern in clear
terms to the Soviet Government.
NUCLEAR POWER
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I haven't
paign, you said that nuclear power
should be America's last energy resort.
When and why have you changed your
position?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I haven't
changed my position. I always made it
clear when I said that, that our first em-
phasis ought to be on conservation. Our
second emphasis ought to be on saving oil
and natural gas, which are getting very
rapidly depleted and the production of
which in our country has been going down
steadily and inexorably, I think; that we
should increase our production of coal and
renew an effort to encourage additional
use of solar power, cut down on imports,
and to the extent that all those efforts are
not successful, we ought to make up the
difference with atomic power.
But I always made it clear and still feel
that there is a significant role to be played
by nuclear power.
I was involved to some degree in evolu-
tion of peaceful nuclear power uses, and
I know that in some parts of the country,
like around Chicago, about 50 percent of
the total power comes from nuclear plants.
I'm very interested in TVA. I'm going to
be down in TVA, the national headquar-
ters, on Monday.
Six plants are being prepared for con-
struction in the TVA program. I support
this. We've tried to expedite the licensing
procedure, but at the same time do all
these other matters which I think would
minimize the need for nuclear power.
Q. Isn't more of the research money
still going into nuclear power than such
things as solar and geothermal?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Compared to
what the Congress has authorized previ-
ously, we've had a substantial increase in
other forms of energy, as far as the budget
is concerned, on research and develop-
ment. I think for the first time now, we've
gotten nuclear power research and devel-
opment down to less than half of the
energy budget.
But I think, as you probably have no-
ticed, there's a much more fervent com-
mitment to some very wasteful projects,
like the Clinch River Breeder Reactor, in
the Congress than I have. I would like
to terminate the Clinch River Breeder
Reactor and have tried to, and the Con-
gress has so far overridden my objections
to it.
I do think we ought to continue to keep
open the option of breeder reactors. And
we have a very heavy allotment of funds
available for research and development
in that field. But to tie down a specific
design and start constructing an operating
plant now when we do not need it, I
think, is a very large and unnecessary
waste of money.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Q. Mr. President, Congress is currently
struggling with the difficult issue of, if the
equal rights amendment is fair, is the ex-
tension of ratification fair. What's your
opinion?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly favor the
passage of the equal rights amend-
ment-
Q. What about the extension of ratifica-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT.
-and I hope that
it passes. If it becomes obvious that it
wouldn't pass, then I would favor the ex-
tension of the law.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Bill.
939
