Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations.
Appointment of Abraham D. Beame as
Chairman. February 27, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Abraham D. Beame as
Chairman of the Advisory Commission
on Intergovernmental Relations.
Beame, 71, was mayor of New York
City from 1974 to 1978. He began his
career in city government in 1946, serv-
ing as assistant budget director for New
York City. In 1952 he was promoted to
budget director. In 1962 Beame was
elected comptroller of New York, and he
continued in this post until 1965, when
he won the Democratic mayoral nomina-
tion. He did not win the election that
year, and during the next 4 years of pri-
vate life, he was a consultant in the area
of finance. In 1969 he was reelected as
comptroller, and in 1973 he was elected
mayor.
The Advisory Commission on Inter-
governmental Relations was established
in 1959 to bring together representatives
of Federal, State, and local governments
for consideration of common problems.
It has 26 members, of whom 20 are ap-
pointed by the President (3 private citi-
3 executive branch officials, 4 Gov-
ernors, 3 representatives of State legisla-
tures, 4 mayors, and 3 county officials),
3 by the President of the Senate, and 3
by the Speaker of the House.
zens,
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. February 27, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the
Congress the twelfth quarterly report of
the Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity. This report contains a description of
the Council's activities during the third
quarter of 1977 in monitoring both prices
and wages in the private sector and var-
ious Federal Government activities that
may lead to higher costs and prices with-
out creating commensurate benefits. It
discusses Council reports, analyses, and
filings before Federal regulatory agencies.
In August 1977 I asked the Council to
undertake an in-depth study of the Na-
tion's steel industry. The study was re-
leased in October and served as an im-
portant information base in the Adminis-
tration's development of its reference
price system for imports of foreign steel.
Also in the third quarter, at the request
of Secretary of HUD Patricia Roberts
Harris, the Council accelerated its study
of lumber prices and the lumber prod-
ucts industry.
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will continue to play an important
role in supplementing fiscal and mone-
tary policies by calling public attention to
wage and price developments or actions
by the Government that could be of con-
cern to American consumers.
The White House,
February 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Quarterly Re-
port: October 1977-Council on Wage and
Price Stability, Executive Office of the Presi-
dent, Washington, D.C., No. 12" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 32 pages).
Elementary and Secondary
Education
Remarks Announcing the Administration's
Proposals to the Congress. February 28, 1978
Good morning, everybody. My first
public job was as a member of the Sum-
ter County School Board, and I've never
422
