June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a very close relationship with the Orga-
nization of American States. Historic
events have occurred here in this build-
ing, and some have even suggested that
I move my office over here because I visit
so often. But the importance of your
deliberations and the past actions that
have occurred here are recognized
throughout our own country.
I want to welcome you here to open the
Eighth General Assembly of the Orga-
nization of American States.
Five days ago, I went to Panama. I
went there to celebrate new treaties which
permit the United States of America and
the Republic of Panama to operate and
to defend the canal on the basis of part-
nership and not paternalism. I went there
to fulfill a pledge that I made before you
in this Hall of the Americas a little more
than a year ago. I went there to explain
what the treaties mean to me and to other
North Americans. More than simply a ful-
fillment of a pledge, they are the begin-
ning of a new era of inter-American un-
derstanding, reflecting a new spirit of
commitment and cooperation.
In the process of reaching agreement,
our two nations—and the many others of
you who supported us-breathed new
life into some old principles: principles
of nonintervention, mutual respect, part-
nership, and multilateral cooperation.
What we have accomplished together
will make it easier to apply these same
principles to the overriding concern of
our hemisphere: peace, human rights and
dignity, and economic development.
Last year on Pan American Day, I
outlined the approach which my own ad-
ministration would take towards Latin
America and the Caribbean. Slogans
would no longer suffice to describe the
diversity of the Americas, nor would a
single formula be helpful when our in-
dividual and our common interests are so
clearly global in scope. The problems of
the world require that we in the Western
Hemisphere think and act more broadly.
That is what I pledged to you last
year on Pan American Day. That's what
I committed our Nation to do. Our goals
still remain the same: to promote world
peace, to discourage international inter-
vention and aggression, to foster an in-
ternational environment in which human
rights and dignity are respected by all,
and to end repression and terrorism, and,
finally, to move toward a more just and
equitable international economic system.
These are the most basic goals of the
community of nations throughout the
world—and therefore of our hemisphere
as well. No one nation can do this job
alone-not the United States, nor any
other. Only by cooperation among the
nations of this hemisphere and through-
out the world will we have a chance to
see these goals fulfilled.
We can advance toward peace with
many small steps, as we remove the causes
of dispute which have plagued our hemi-
sphere in the past.
The resolution of the Panama Canal
issue should be a good omen that other
disputes in our hemisphere can also be
settled peacefully. Let us approach other
problems, such as Bolivian access to the
sea,
the Honduras-El Salvador border
dispute, the future of Belize, in the same
spirit of accommodation and friendship.
Just as the nations of this hemisphere
offered support to Panama and the
United States during the canal negotia-
tions, I pledge today my Government's
willingness to join in the effort to find
peaceful and just solutions to other
problems.
In 1 year's time, it will be a century
since the War of the Pacific. We should
view this anniversary, this occasion, as
an opportunity to reaffirm our commit-
ment to harmony in this hemisphere and
to avoid conflict.
1142
