June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mony within that movement and hopes
that Cuba will change in the future.
We have had long discussions about
some of the attitudes of other countries.
He's seeking now to have an improved re-
lationship with Pakistan, to draw together
that country, Afghanistan, Iran, India,
into a recommitment of harmony and
peace in that part of the world. They've
been able to bridge the gap between the
democracies and the totalitarian govern-
ments.
And they are trying to repair the
strained relationships between India and
China, the People's Republic of China, I
think successfully, because of his broad
mind and his willingness to analyze his
own position and that of his country in an
objective fashion.
This is a time, also, to recognize India's
great and staunch commitment to the
principle of protecting basic human rights.
And I think that in that country, where
in the past so many people have suffered,
that we've always cherished as a friend,
it's indeed gratifying to him and those
who serve with him to know that India's
production of food now is adequate for
their own needs. They have a reserve
supply of food on hand, even the capabil-
ity of exporting basic food items. And this
is a symbol of the vigor of their great
country, one of the most advanced tech-
nological nations in the world, and a real
leader in almost every aspect of that word.
It is an honor, Mr. Prime Minister, to
have you in our country. And from the
perspective of the Presidency of our
Nation, from the perspective of a per-
sonal friend, from the perspective of a
member of a family who looks with great
favor and appreciation on your country,
I would like to propose a toast to a great
leader and a personal friend, Prime Min-
ister Desai, to the wonderful people of
India, and to the enhanced prospects of
world peace for which you strive so
vigorously.
Thank you, sir.
[At this point, the toast was offered.]
I might say that those of you who like
to drink water can thank the Prime Min-
ister for his beneficent influence tonight.
[Laughter]
THE PRIME MINISTER. I don't know
that that would be as much welcomed.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. It's good for us all.
Would you like to say a word?
THE PRIME MINISTER. I think it is
quite good.
Mr. President, you have so
whelmed me with your gracious words in
attributing to me many qualities which
I am struggling to possess, but have not
yet fully attained. It was very kind of you
to have invited me here to this great land
with which we have much in common, in
ideals and attitudes alike and in human
qualities.
I have been here many times, and
every time I have come here, I have been
not only happy but I have always learned
something, not only in life but also in
the matter of democratic values.
I belong to a country which is poor in
material resources-not that it was poor at
a time when others were poor in other
riches-but in the course of time, it has
become the poorest today. But it is the
richest in spiritual values which we have
inherited from the holy past. And yet I
can't say that we are quite a true speci-
men of that great heritage, but we hope
that we shall be able now, after passing
through several trials, be able to catch
again that spirit and be of some service
to the world.
We have no ambition of affluence as it
is understood in the present day. We
would be satisfied if our people have
enough to be happy and we are able to
serve the human society in such a way
1088
