Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
telligence Program implementation and
may conduct program and performance
audits and evaluations.
1-603. Responsibility For National For-
eign Intelligence. The Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence shall have full respon-
sibility for production and dissemination
of national foreign intelligence and have
authority to levy analytic tasks on de-
partmental intelligence production orga-
nizations, in consultation with those
organizations. In doing so, the Director
of Central Intelligence shall ensure that
diverse points of view are considered fully
and that differences of judgment within
the Intelligence Community are brought
to the attention of national policymakers.
1-604. Protection of Sources, Methods
and Procedures. The Director of Central
Intelligence shall ensure that programs
are developed which protect intelligence
sources, methods and analytical proce-
dures, provided that this responsibility
shall be limited within the United States
to:
(a) Using lawful means to protect
against disclosure by present or former
employees of the CIA or the Office of the
Director of Central Intelligence, or by
persons or organizations presently or for-
merly under contract with such entities;
and
(b) Providing policy, guidance and
technical assistance to departments and
agencies regarding protection of intelli-
gence information, including information.
that may reveal intelligence sources and
methods.
1-605. Responsibility of Executive
Branch Agencies. The heads of all Ex-
ecutive Branch departments and agen-
cies shall, in accordance with law and
relevant Attorney General procedures,
give the Director of Central Intelligence
access to all information relevant to the
national intelligence needs of the United
States and shall give due consideration
to requests from the Director of Central
Intelligence for appropriate support for
CIA activities.
1-606. Access to CIA Intelligence. The
Director of Central Intelligence, shall, in
accordance with law and relevant Attor-
ney General procedures, give the heads
of the departments and agencies access
to all intelligence, developed by the CIA
or the staff elements of the office of the
Director of Central Intelligence, relevant
to the national intelligence needs of the
departments and agencies.
1-7. Senior Officials of the Intelligence
Community. The senior officials of each
of the agencies within the Intelligence
Community shall:
1-701. Ensure that all activities of their
agencies are carried out in accordance
with applicable law;
1-702. Make use of the capabilities of
other agencies within the Intelligence
Community in order to achieve efficiency
and mutual assistance;
1-703. Contribute in their areas of re-
sponsibility to the national foreign intelli-
gence products;
1-704. Establish internal policies and
guidelines governing employee conduct
and ensure that such are made known to
each employee;
1-705. Provide for strong, independent,
internal means to identify, inspect, and
report on unlawful or improper activity;
1-706. Report to the Attorney General
evidence of possible violations of federal
criminal law by an employee of their de-
partment or agency, and report to the
Attorney General evidence of possible
violations by any other person of those
federal criminal laws specified in guide-
lines adopted by the Attorney General;
1-707. In any case involving serious or
continuing breaches of security, recom-
mend to the Attorney General that the
200
