May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
employed and how many will be con-
tributing to the social security system in
the future. And you need not worry, if
the future Presidents and future Con-
gresses don't change the system, that when
you retire, the money will be there to pay
your justly deserved retirement benefits
back that you put in because of your hard
work.
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, I am Catherine Mc-
Gourin, and my question has to do with
tuition tax credits. And first I would like
to ask if any of your children attended
private or nondenominational schools
with tuition grants from the State, and
second, I would ask if you intend to hold
to your promise to help parents of chil-
dren in private and parochial schools
obtain help?
THE PRESIDENT. Fine. I've had four
children. We had three boys while I was
in the Navy, and then my wife and I had
a 14-year argument that I finally won.
[Laughter] Amy came along later.
They've all attended the public schools,
except my youngest son, Jeffery, who had
problems with his health and who at-
tended a private school for 1 year. We
paid the tuition there without any State
help.
When I was Governor, I instituted a
program to give financial assistance to
students who attended the private col-
leges. We started off $400 per year per
student. It was increased later during my
term to $600 a year per student. This was
constitutional in Georgia.
I don't think that tuition tax credits
ought to be authorized in the United
States. We have put forward an alternate
proposal to help the average American
family pay for college tuition and other
costs in a much more effective way. The
tuition tax credits, because of the design
of the income tax system, help much more
greatly those families with a very high
income.
My own belief is that to provide tuition
tax credits for elementary and secondary
schools would not only be ill-advised, be-
cause it would rob away from the public
schools, but also is unconstitutional.
So, I don't favor tuition tax credits.
And if the Congress does pass the tuition
tax credit bill, I intend to do everything
I can to keep it from becoming law, in-
cluding vetoing the legislation. I'm com-
mitted to the public school system at the
elementary and secondary level.
Within the confines of court rulings and
other determinations under the United
States Constitution, however, I am in fa-
vor of credits of many kinds, not through
the tax system, being given to the paro-
chial schools and other private schools.
But the tuition tax credit system and the
route is the wrong action in my opinion,
and I oppose it now very deeply and be-
lieve it would be a serious mistake and
will do all I can to prevent tuition tax
credits from being the means by which we
give aid to the private colleges for tuition,
for scholarships, for loans for students-
I think that's a better alternative. So, tui-
tion tax credits I oppose.
SOLAR ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Chris
Salisbury.
THE PRESIDENT. Saltsburg?
Q. Salisbury. There is presently a bill
in Congress with over 100 cosponsors,
called the solar energy bank bill. This is
designed to set up a solar energy bank
with a $5 billion revolving fund to pro-
vide long-term, low-interest loans for the
purchase and installation of solar energy
systems in commercial and residential
buildings.
Do you support this?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't support
that particular legislation. I think that a
868
