June 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
• Coordination of Federal activities to
promote dam safety, carried by the same
Office.
Responsibility for assistance to com-
munities in the development of readiness
plans for severe weather-related emer-
gencies, including floods, hurricanes, and
tornadoes.
• Coordination of natural and nuclear
disaster warning systems.
• Coordination of preparedness and
planning to reduce the consequences of
major terrorist incidents. This would not
alter the present responsibility of the Ex-
ecutive Branch for reacting to the inci-
dents themselves.
This reorganization rests on several
fundamental principles. First, Federal au-
thorities to anticipate, prepare for, and
respond to major civil emergencies should
be supervised by one official responsible
to the President and given attention by
other officials at the highest levels.
The new Agency would be in this posi-
tion. To increase White House oversight
and involvement still further, I shall es-
tablish by Executive Order an Emer-
gency Management Committee, to be
chaired by the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency Director. Its member-
ship shall be comprised of the Assistants
to the President for National Security,
Domestic Affairs and Policy and Inter-
governmental Relations, and the Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget.
It will advise the President on ways to
meet national civil emergencies. It will
also oversee and provide guidance on the
management of all Federal emergency
authorities, advising the President on al-
ternative approaches to improve perform-
ance and avoid excessive costs.
Second, an effective civil defense sys-
tem requires the most efficient use of all
available emergency resources. At the
same time, civil defense systems, orga-
nization, and resources must be prepared
to cope with any disasters which threaten
our people. The Congress has clearly rec-
ognized this principle in recent changes
in the civil defense legislation.
The communications, warning, evacu-
ation, and public education processes in-
volved in preparedness for a possible nu-
clear attack should be developed, tested,
and used for major natural and acciden-
tal disasters as well. Consolidation of civil
defense functions in the new Agency will
assure that attack readiness programs are
effectively integrated into the prepared-
ness organizations and programs of State
and local government, private industry,
and volunteer organizations.
While serving an important "all-haz-
ards" readiness and response role, civil
defense must continue to be fully compat-
ible with and be ready to play an im-
portant role in our Nation's overall stra-
tegic policy. Accordingly, to maintain a
link between our strategic nuclear plan-
ning and our nuclear attack preparedness
planning, I will make the Secretary of De-
fense and the National Security Council
responsible for oversight of civil defense
related programs and policies of the new
Agency. This will also include appropriate
Department of Defense support in areas
like program development, technical sup-
port, research, communications, intelli-
gence and emergency operations.
Third, whenever possible, emergency
responsibilities should be extensions of the
regular missions of Federal agencies. The
primary task of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency will be to coordi-
nate and plan for the emergency deploy-
ment of resources that have other routine
uses. There is no need to develop a sep-
arate set of Federal skills and capabilities
for those rare occasions when catastrophe
occurs.
Fourth, Federal hazard mitigation ac-
tivities should be closely linked with emer-
gency preparedness and response func-
1130
