Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I propose today that ARFA be replaced
with a Supplemental Fiscal Assistance
Program, which will provide $1 billion of
fiscal assistance annually for the next two
fiscal years to local governments experi-
encing significant fiscal strain. Further ex-
tension of this program will be considered
together with General Revenue Sharing.
Fiscal Relief in Welfare Proposal
In addition, I propose to phase in the
fiscal relief component of the Better Jobs
and Income Act as soon as Congress
passes this legislation, rather than in 1981
as originally planned.
IV. COMMUNITY AND HUMAN DEVELOP-
MENT
A comprehensive program to revitalize
America's cities must provide for com-
munity and human needs. This involves
both physical facilities, such as parks, rec-
reation facilities, housing and transporta-
tion systems, and the provision of health
and social services.
Housing Rehabilitation
The conservation and upgrading of our
housing stock is important to maintain-
ing the strength of urban areas. Housing
rehabilitation improves the quality of
community life and provides construction
jobs in areas of high unemployment.
I propose an additional $150 million in
FY 1979 for the Section 312 rehabilitation
loan program, which will more than dou-
ble the existing program. This expanded
effort will permit the rehabilitation of
small multi-family housing projects in
distressed neighborhoods.
Urban Transportation
In many cities, public transportation is
inadequately financed. The Federal gov-
ernment has begun to make substantial
investments to rehabilitate, revitalize and
construct urban transportation systems.
I have already submitted to Congress
my proposals to extend and strengthen the
highway and mass transit programs.
To supplement these efforts I today pro-
pose an additional $200 million for capi-
tal investments in intermodal urban
transportation projects. These funds will
be used to link existing transportation
facilities in selected cities.
Resource Recovery Planning
Solid waste disposal is a growing prob-
lem in the many urban areas which face
a shortage of landfill sites. At the same
time, techniques to recover valuable re-
sources and energy from solid waste have
emerged.
I will request $15 million for the EPA
to provide grants of $300,000 to $400,000
to cities for feasibility studies of solid
waste recovery systems.
Arts and Culture
Cities are centers of culture and art,
which thrive on the vitality of the urban
environment.
To help renew and develop this artistic
and cultural spirit, I propose a new Liva-
ble Cities program administered by the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment, with the participation of the
National Endowment for the Arts. This
program will provide up to $20 million in
grants to States and communities for
neighborhood- and community-based arts
programs, urban design and planning, and
the creation and display of art in public
spaces. Historic preservation of buildings
should also be encouraged.
Urban Parks and Recreation
The quality of life in urban areas is
critically affected by the availability of
open spaces and recreation facilities. Yet
hard pressed communities often lack the
resources to maintain and invest ade-
quately in these amenities.
590
