Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 23
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. February 23, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report a
new Department of Commerce deferral
of Maritime Administration funds total-
ling $122 million in budget authority and
a new deferral of $0.4 million in outlays
for the Antirecession financial assistance
fund in the Department of the Treasury.
In addition, I am reporting routine re-
visions to two previously transmitted de-
ferrals. A Department of the Interior
deferral is increased by $2 million in bud-
get authority, and a Department of the
Treasury deferral is increased by $4.1
million in outlays.
The details of each deferral are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
February 23, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the defer-
rals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
March 1, 1978.
ANDERSON W. POLLARD, Community liaison
officer for the child psychiatry and mental
retardation program at the Neuropsychiat-
ric Institute at UCLA;
LUDWIG ROTHBEIN, member of the Denver
Commission for the Disabled and of the
Denver Association for Retarded Citizens;
EUNICE KENNEDY SHRIVER, executive vice
president of the Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr.,
Foundation;
FLORENCE K. SIMONS, administrative assistant
at Paul Stafford Associates in Washington
and a researcher on the family;
SAMUEL WHITMAN, associate dean of govern-
ment and community relations and assistant
professor of community health at Case West-
ern Reserve University.
Geological Survey
Nomination of H. William Menard To Be
Director. February 23, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate H. William Menard, of
La Jolla, Calif., to be Director of the Geo-
logical Survey. He would replace Vincent
E. McKelvey, resigned.
Menard was born December 10, 1920,
in Fresno, Calif. He received a B.S. in
President's Committee on Mental 1942 and an M.S. in 1947 from California
Retardation
Appointment of Seven Members.
February 23, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of seven persons as members of
the President's Committee on Mental Re-
tardation for terms expiring May 11, 1980.
They are:
ROBERT G. JORDAN, JR., M.D., director of the
University of Tennessee Child Development
Center;
ANA NAVARRO, M.D., director of the crippled
children and mental retardation program of
the Family Health Service Division, Assist-
ant Secretariat for Ambulatory Care, of the
Puerto Rico Department of Health;
Institute of Technology, and a Ph. D. in
geology in 1949 from Harvard University.
He served in the U.S. Navy during World
War II.
Menard was a marine geologist with
the Navy Electronics Laboratory from
1949 to 1955, and since 1955 has been a
professor of geology at Scripps Institution
of Oceanography. He has also been an in-
dependent geological consultant, doing
underwater mapping and making deep
sea oceanographic expeditions. He has
been a technical adviser to a number of
Government agencies and is the author
of numerous articles and four books.
407
