Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 7
ity, for equality and unimpeded develop-
ment, for the settlement of burning issues
of the present-day world.
A comprehensive emancipation of na-
tions and countries, decolonization and
creation by means of the establishment of
the new economic order of genuine pre-
conditions for the prosperity of all coun-
tries are inseparably linked with the ac-
tivities of nonaligned countries. These
ideals and objectives are in no way new.
They permeated our aspirations also at a
time of the founding of the United Na-
tions.
The movement of nonaligned is a log-
ical expression of the objective need of
the present, still considerably divided
world. It is an exceptionally important
part, an active factor of the process of
détente. It can be discerned that there is
growing consciousness and awareness in
the world of such a role of the move-
ment of nonaligned countries in the cur-
rent development of international rela-
tions.
Therefore, every attempt at weakening
the nonaligned movement and that link-
ing its parts to one or the other bloc is
inevitably directed against détente itself,
against the strengthening and expansion
of peaceful coexistence. And this leads to
dangers that might affect the nonaligned
countries and countries belonging to blocs
alike.
I have already mentioned the interde-
pendence of the world, which requires
from all countries-irrespective of their
size, might, and affiliation-close coop-
eration, coupled with mutual respect. The
nonaligned countries always stand ready
for such cooperation. Their decisions and
activity are inspired by it, and it is my
firm belief that the only way for mankind
to move towards a more secure future lies
in this very cooperation, rather than con-
frontation.
We have been guided by it also in our
activity during the Belgrade followup
meeting of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe, at which
Yugoslavia, as the host, has special re-
sponsibilities.
We certainly believe that it is para-
mount for all the states participating in
the Conference on Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe to equally exert efforts
towards a constant strengthening of the
process of relaxation and cooperation in
the spirit of Helsinki, for only thus may
this
process yield results which millions of
people in Europe, the United States, and
Canada, as well as in the rest of the
world, expect from it.
Any attempt to impose unilateral in-
terests casts a shadow over the already
attained level of confidence and throws
us back into the past, while the very na-
ture of the process of détente makes it in-
cumbent on us, due to the accountability
of all countries and peoples to themselves,
to move constantly forward.
Yugoslavia and the United States of
America have been cooperating success-
fully in the international field already
for a number of years. This cooperation
dates back to a time when sharing on
the same side the hardships of the past
World War, we were searching for the
best means to make it possible for the
world to live in peace, understanding,
and friendship.
I profoundly believe that now we shall
deepen this cooperation still further in
our mutual and even broader interest.
The United States is a big power. Yugo-
slavia's part of the nonaligned movement.
It is for this very reason, this very reason,
which calls for our two countries to co-
operate more closely in the search for
widely acceptable solutions to pressing
international problems.
Such a Yugoslav-American coopera-
tion can only contribute to a broader
479
