Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
veloping nations that I have visited this economy is ultimately a shared responsi-
year.
Only three decades ago, many na-
tions of these continents were largely
colonies of foreign powers. Their rise to
independence means a world in which we
must treat each other as equals. And one
of the purposes of these trips has been to
demonstrate the genuine respect my Na-
tion feels for its partners around the world
and our opposition to the continuation or
reestablishment of colonialism in any form
whatsoever.
The world economy has changed, bring-
ing the hope of economic improvement
and justice to millions and making each
of us far more dependent than ever be-
fore on the cooperation of our neighbors.
If we create a world economy of fair-
ness and growth, our mutual well-being
will be ensured. If we are shortsighted and
let inequality, selfishness, and injustice
persist, all of us will suffer.
Even the ideas that motivate mankind
have been changing. The traditional ri-
valry between East and West continues,
even as we try to reduce the competi-
tion and expand the areas of potential
cooperation.
But other visions, those of national iden-
tity, of self-determination, of racial equal-
ity, of the individual rights of all human
beings, rise more and more to dominate
the human horizon.
It is indeed a new world, and I would
like to reemphasize briefly the three
themes that dominate our vision of this
new age.
The first is economic justice, both
both
among the nations of the world and for
those within each nation who now lack the
material requirements for a decent life.
Economic justice imposes a special ob-
ligation on nations like my own, which
have resources to share with the rest of
the world. This is a responsibility we in-
tend to honor. But sustaining the world
bility in which every nation must do its
part.
The second element is a respect for hu-
man rights the right to be treated prop-
erly by one's own government, to be able
to participate in the decisions that affect
one's own life, to have the basic human
requirements of food, shelter, health, and
education.
If there is any development that has
heartened me in my time as President, it
is the extent to which the cause of human
rights has taken its rightful place on the
agenda and in the conscience of the world.
This is a cause that the United States and
Liberia are proud to claim as our birth-
right. But we know that it is now spread-
ing, not because of our efforts but because
the times demand it.
The third element on which all our
other hopes eventually depend is a search
for peace.
My Nation has now, as it has had for
the last 30 years, a responsibility to work
constantly for peace with its powerful ri-
vals. But in this new age, the search for
peace leads in other directions as well. It
means relying on mutual conciliation, ne-
gotiation, discussion of even the most in-
tractable and difficult international issues.
In this area your own President Tol-
bert's philosophy of conciliation and mod-
eration has been an outstanding example.
It marks him as a man with a profound
understanding of human nature and a
firm commitment to preventing potential
conflicts through wise and just
agreements.
We share with you a commitment to an
Africa that is at peace, an Africa free from
colonialism, an Africa free from racism,
an Africa free from military interference
by outside nations, and an Africa free
from the inevitable conflicts that arise
when the integrity of national boundaries
is not respected.
674
