Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
a dormant issue for too long, and now I
doubt that there's a world leader who
exists that doesn't constantly feel the pres-
sure of considering the human rights ques-
tions to analyze one's own administra-
tion, one's own country, what the rest of
the world thinks about us, and how we
could correct any defects and prevent al-
legations in the future, either true or false.
POSSIBILITY OF MIDDLE EAST VISIT
Q. Mr. President, with the new move-
ment which is now apparent in the
Middle East question, is there any pos-
sibility of a Middle East stop on your way
back home?
THE PRESIDENT. No. No, I have no in-
tention to stop in the Middle East. I'll go
from here to Nigeria, from there to
Liberia, and then back home.
Maybe one more question.
U.S.-BRAZILIAN RELATIONS
your
Q. [in Portuguese] The restraint of
public words until now, your specific de-
sire to meet with the new President, all
these facts amount to a virtual blessing
of the Brazilian regime. Is your interest
in civil rights and political dissidents
fading away, or are American economic
interests in this country so strong that
Brazil is already a special case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say
that the history, the culture, common de-
fense requirements, trade, common pur-
pose binds the people of Brazil—all bind
the people of Brazil and the people of the
United States together in an unbreakable
commitment, regardless of the identity
of the leaders in our own country or yours.
The people of Brazil and the United
States are bound together. There is no
lessening of our commitment to the prin-
ciples that you described. The basic free-
doms to democratic government, to the
protection of human rights, to the preven-
tion of nuclear proliferation-these com-
mitments are also very deep for us.
Obviously, the overwhelming responsi-
bility when I come to a foreign country,
no matter where it is, is to meet with the
leaders who are in office. But I also will
be visiting the Congress this morning. I'm
sure that I will be meeting the chairman
of a Senate foreign relations committee
who's also a candidate for President.
We've already pointed out I will be
meeting with religious leaders, and I hope
that in this process that I'll have a chance
to get views from all elements, at least
some of the major elements of the Brazil-
ian society. But I'm not endorsing any
candidates, and I think that the over-
whelming sense of my visit already has
been that the strength of our friendship
and the mutuality of our purposes, now
and in the future, far override any sharply
expressed differences of opinion on even
the major and very important issues of
human rights, nonproliferation, trade,
and so forth.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-eighth news
conference began at 9 a.m. in the Ballroom
of the Hotel Nacional in Brasilia, Brazil. It was
broadcast live via satellite on radio and tele-
vision in the United States.
Several of the reporters spoke in Portu-
guese, and their questions were translated by
an interpreter.
Brasília, Brazil
Remarks Before the Brazilian Congress.
March 30, 1978
Distinguished leaders of the great Gov-
ernment of Brazil, the Senate, the House
of Deputies:
One of the greatest honors of my life
is to meet with others who share with us
in the United States a common back-
634
