Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
have disappeared because of a destruc-
tion of the sand dunes and the normal,
inevitable actions of the waves and the
air.
Noise impacts on our ears in such a
way that we hardly recognize the level of
disturbance that's constant to our human
brains. The White House is located in an
area of about 18 acres that seems to be
quiet and peaceful. But when my wife and
I play tennis on the court there, we can-
not hear each other from one end of the
court to the other when we try to shout
out the score or communicate between
two people.
We don't realize how much we have
permitted a deterioration in the quality of
the place where we live.
For millions of years, fossil fuels were
built up with a strange chemical mech-
anism and a strange physical pressure
mechanism. And in just a few decades,
we've wasted most of those fossil fuels
and now face with imminence dep-
imminence dep-
rivation for our children and our grand-
children, brought about by our own un-
corrected, wasteful ways. This sense of
carelessness or callousness or even de-
struction of God's earth and air and water
has a depressing effect on the human
spirit.
It's not just a physical thing; it's a
spiritual thing. And as we who worship
God care little about our own physical
surroundings, so we've shown in the
Christian church and other churches a
callousness toward human beings.
I've traveled a lot in recent years, as
President and before, to foreign countries.
And there is a reluctance within the
churches of all denominations to reach
out a helping hand to the poor, the de-
prived, those who suffer from a depriva-
tion of basic civil rights, basic human
rights.
There is an upcoming conference in
Mexico where that is and will be the
main problem for church leaders to face—
"How much should we care for our fel-
low human beings? How much should a
church be isolated from people around
the worshippers?"
We, as a nation, are committed to the
preservation and enhancement of human
rights. But quite often, we preach with a
hollow voice because of an absence of a
total commitment to civil rights, human
rights, the basic needs of people in our
own great and free land. But still there is
a tie that binds us together which is a
basis for future hope.
One of the most moving religious
statements that I've ever heard was in the
State Dining Room of the White House
about a year ago, when Crown Prince
Fahd from Saudi Arabia pointed out the
indestructible religious commitment of
the people of his land.
Later, when we were gratified to see a
meeting between the Egyptians and the
Israelis at their top leadership level and
a breaking down of decades of insur-
mountable barriers between two peoples
who genuinely want peace, as I talked
privately with those leaders, they pointed
out that the thing they had in common
that gave them hope for the future was a
common belief in God. They both say
with pride, "We are children of Abra-
ham." It gives a sense of community.
Perhaps the great struggle in the fu-
ture will come in Africa between the free
world and the Communist form of gov-
ernment. Black Africans have long felt a
need for a deep religious faith, whether
Islam, Christianity, or others, and they
have an abhorrence of the intrusion of an
atheistic officialdom in their own country.
So, our faith in God, no matter what
form it may have taken in our own in-
dividual lives, can be a basis for repair-
ing the damage that has been done to the
human spirit and should be a constant
reminder that we have an equivalent re-
831
