Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 7
even the most complex problems can be things in common with us. He has a pri-
solved with success.
We in Yugoslavia are very much in-
terested in the continuing, successful, and
comprehensive development of relations
between our two countries on the basis of
the already established principles of in-
dependence, sovereignty, mutual respect,
and understanding.
We expect that our visit to the United
States, the exchange of views on current
international issues, as well as the talks on
the promotion of bilateral cooperation,
will make an important contribution to
the further strengthening and promotion
of friendly relations between our two
countries and thereby, also, to broader
understanding, respect, and cooperation
in the world.
I take this opportunity to convey to the
American people on behalf of the peoples
of Yugoslavia the expressions of their
friendly feelings and their best wishes for
your overall progress.
Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:42 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. President
Tito spoke in Serbo-Croatian, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter.
Visit of President Tito
of Yugoslavia
Toasts at the State Dinner. March 7, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. First of all, I would
like to say that my wife, Rosalynn, and
I welcome all of you to the White House.
We here tonight and all the people of
the United States are deeply honored by
the visit of a great world leader, President
Tito of Yugoslavia.
We've had a delightful conversation
during supper. I found that he has some
vate farm where he grows grapes and
produces wine. It's my second favorite
vine, the first one being peanuts, of
course. [Laughter]
Although we do have differences there,
my brother, Billy, as you know, is—
[laughter]-he produces beer, not wine.
[Laughter]
President Tito is a man of great cour-
age. He was telling me that there is an
island-which some of our guests here at
the head table, the Harrimans at least,
have visited-about 2½ miles wide, 5
miles long, where he has a tremendous
collection of puma, lions, camels, ele-
phants, other animals, wild boar. I know
very well how he feels when he goes there
for a weekend, very similar to the way I
felt when I came to Washington 13 years
ago. [Laughter]
President Tito is a leader who has wel-
comed many great Americans to his
country. One of the first was in 1944.
President Tito, then an early leader of
Yugoslavia toward freedom, was in his
headquarters when a B-24 crashed in a
barnyard while he watched the plane go
down.
Out of the B-24 stepped the crew. The
first man out of the plane was George
McGovern. [Laughter] This is a true
story. And ever since, President Tito has
welcomed American visitors of great dis-
tinction to his country. [Laughter]
This is a world leader who has led his
people and protected their freedom al-
most for the last 40 years. Through peace
and war, he has been part of the per-
sonal history of the world during our
own generation and the previous genera-
tion.
James Reston, who interviewed Presi-
dent Tito recently, said that he is the
last political giant of this century. He's
a man of eternal strength, of eternal
475
