Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 12
vital, but unless we also identify and re-
duce the social pressures which encourage
drug abuse, our other efforts will achieve
little.
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
Recognizing this we are focusing our [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
efforts on the search for ways to stop drug
abuse before it starts. In particular, we
are directing our attention to ways of help-
ing young people understand themselves
and their surroundings without the arti-
ficial support of dangerous drugs. How
successful we will be remains to be seen.
But each of us needs the courage to face
these hard truths, the insight to recognize
that this problem affects us all, and the
determination to do something about it.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
in order to inaugurate the 1978 National
Drug Abuse Prevention Campaign, do
hereby proclaim the week beginning Jan-
uary 15, 1978, as National Drug Abuse
Prevention Week.
I call upon government officials, edu-
cators, medical professionals, clergy, busi-
ness and civic leaders to join together in
working to create an America where peo-
ple are no longer tempted to abuse drugs.
I call upon parents to examine the ways
they respect or abuse drugs in their homes
and to remember that their attitudes are
likely to shape the attitudes of their chil-
dren. Most of all, I ask each American to
take the time and trouble to learn about
drug abuse prevention, to kindle positive
values within our families and commu-
nities, and to create opportunities for peo-
ple of all ages and all backgrounds to come
together to share their ideas, skills, and
resources.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
January, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
11:08 a.m., January 12, 1978]
NOTE: The proclamation was announced by
the White House on January 12.
White House Conference on
Balanced National Growth and
Economic Development
Appointment of 15 Members to the
Conference's Advisory Committee.
January 12, 1978
The President today announced 15 per-
sons whom he will appoint as members of
the Advisory Committee to the White
House Conference on Balanced National
Growth and Economic Development.
They are:
ROBERT O. ANDERSON, of Roswell, N. Mex.,
chairman of the board and chief executive
officer of Atlantic Richfield Co.;
CHARLES E. BISHOP, of Fayetteville, Ark., pres-
ident of the University of Arkansas;
DAVID J. FITZMAURICE, of Cleveland, Ohio,
president of the International Union of Elec-
trical, Radio and Machine Workers;
ALFREDO GUTIERREZ, of Phoenix, Ariz., major-
ity leader in the Arizona State Senate;
DORIS B. HOLLEB, of Chicago, Ill., director of
the University of Chicago's Metropolitan
Institute and research associate at its Center
for Urban Studies;
MAYNARD JACKSON, mayor of Atlanta;
JOHN H. LYONS, of Potomac, Md., general
president of the International Association of
Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron
Workers;
LEO T. MCCARTHY, of San Francisco, speaker
of the California Assembly;
WILLIAM C. NORRIS, of St. Paul, Minn., chair-
man of the board and chief executive officer
of Control Data Corp.;
KATHERINE G. PEDEN, of Louisville, Ky., presi-
dent of Katherine G. Peden & Associates, a
firm of industrial and community developers;
53
