Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
bilateral nature and also international Nations and OAS in going into countries
affairs.
to determine the facts.
Tomorrow morning we will continue
our discussions, and they will be devoted
to economic matters, including, of course,
the value of the dollar, the price of oil,
and other similar subjects. We have not
yet discussed those subjects.
Q. Mr. President, did both of you dis-
cuss the question of human rights in a
general way, and specifically, was there
any discussion of criticism concerning the
situation in Nicaragua and our position as
opposed to the Venezuelan position?
PRESIDENT CARTER. It doesn't take long
to discuss the question of human rights
with the Venezuelan leaders, because we
are in complete harmony on this subject.
I would say that Venezuela took a very
early and very strong position on human
rights, which we later adopted as our own.
And we have worked closely with them,
in the Organization of American States
and individually with countries where
human rights were threatened, to bring
about a realization of those hopes that we
both share.
I am sure that President Pérez would
like to reply as well.
Q. Did you say also that there is no
difference of opinion between the two of
you on the question of Nicaragua?
PRESIDENT PÉREZ. [President Pérez re-
sponded in Spanish.]
PRESIDENT CARTER. Tomorrow we will
make every attempt, President Pérez and
I, to find some differences between our-
selves and between our countries that
might serve to titillate the press and to
make a more newsworthy story. But I
think President Pérez has accurately de-
scribed the situation. We discussed these
issues very thoroughly, and although I
don't know the details of the beliefs of
the officials of Venezuela, we did not de-
tect any differences between us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 5:30 p.m. at
La Casona.
As printed above, the item follows the White
House press release.
We have had discussion about the
situation in Nicaragua not only this after- Caracas, Venezuela
noon, but President Pérez and I have
exchanged correspondence continually
about it, and several letters.
I have derived a great benefit from his
advice. We are both concerned about the
situation in Nicaragua, and we both feel
that a delegation from the United Na-
tions or the OAS should be welcomed into
Nicaragua, and other countries where
human rights are threatened, to provide
the facts to the outside world.
We have a policy in our country, which
I am insistent in maintaining, of not in-
tervening in the internal affairs of other
nations. But we have a right to express
our own selves forcefully and also to en-
courage action on the part of the United
Toast at the State Dinner. March 28, 1978
President and Mrs. Pérez, distinguished
friends from Venezuela and from my own
country:
It is a great honor and a pleasure for
us-my wife, my daughter, and I-to be
here with you.
I speak a little better Spanish than I
understand, and I may have gotten a few
words of the President incorrectly, and
I'm sure he'll correct me tomorrow
morning if I make a mistake. But I would
like to thank him for his offer to reduce
the price of oil 5 percent each year for the
next 5 years and to lend the United States
enough to balance our budget next year.
617
