Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
help to enable an additional 50,000 mod-
erate-income families to own their own
homes. The total number of families re-
ceiving housing assistance will increase
from 2.6 million in 1977 to 3.1 million
in 1979.
-More funds for the rehabilitation
loan program under section 312, with an
expansion of existing programs for sub-
stantial renovations and the creation of a
new moderate rehabilitation program un-
der section 8.
-A major new operating subsidy pro-
gram for 1979. This new program, cou-
pled with improved management controls
and the monitoring of troubled projects,
is intended to reduce the inventory of de-
faulted projects and aid in restoring dis-
tressed urban areas. The Department of
Housing and Urban Development has
made substantial progress in 1977 in re-
ducing the stock of defaulted projects.
This new program will give the Depart-
ment additional tools. Outlays for this
program are estimated to total $52 mil-
lion in 1979.
—A Federal financing mechanism for
assisted housing projects through use of
the GNMA Tandem program.
-A targeted GNMA Tandem pro-
gram which will provide subsidies de-
signed to bring middle-income families
back to the cities.
-Targeting of rural housing programs
to lower-income residents, including a
special program to help very poor families
own their own homes.
-Continuing high levels of production
housing for
elderly and
of
handicapped.
the
TRANSPORTATION
This year we will build on the efforts
we made last year to strengthen the Na-
tion's transportation system by decreasing
consumer costs, pursuing increased en-
ergy efficiency, and improving safety:
-negotiation of a new US-UK bi-
lateral air services agreement;
-approval of new international air
routes from a number of American
cities;
―requiring passive restraint systems on
all new automobiles by 1984;
-setting new fuel efficiency standards
for 1981-1984 model automobiles;
-beginning work on the Northeast
Corridor Railroad Improvement
Program;
-passing an all-cargo airline deregula-
tion bill.
We will also continue our policy of in-
creasing competition and reducing air-
fares in international flights, and pursue
additional bilateral agreements. Consum-
ers have already benefited from reduced
international fares and improved service.
Highway and Transit Programs
We will soon propose a comprehensive
highway and transit program, which will
provide more than $45 billion in total au-
thorizations in the 1979-1982 period.
The program will give states and locali-
ties more flexibility in planning and pro-
gramming their highway and transit fund-
ing, by reducing the number of narrow,
categorical accounts and by using con-
solidated accounts for a wider range of
potential transportation projects.
In addition, we will make funding of
transportation programs more uniform
and give localities more control over
highway and mass transit funds in large
urban areas.
Highway Safety
The Administration will propose legis-
lation to strengthen our efforts for high-
way safety and to reduce restrictions on
the states' use of Federal highway safety
106
