Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
whole concept is fallacious, and I don't
like it.
SOCIAL SECURITY FINANCING
Q. Mr. President, Jim Squires with
the Orlando Sentinel Star. You did not
mention a possible veto of the rollback in
Congress of social security taxes. And
there is a report that you might accept
that rollback if it were tied to a proposal
that would levy a crude oil tax and de-
vote the revenue to financing the social
security project.
Could you
tell me if that report is true
and if you would veto the bill if it passes
in its present form?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've made it
clear to the congressional leadership in
the House and the Senate that I do not
favor any modification in the social secu-
rity laws or financing structure this year.
The Congress, I think last year, very
courageously passed social security legis-
lation that would bring order out of chaos
and put the social security reserve funds
back on a sound basis for 25 or 30 years
in the future. They were on the verge
of bankruptcy. Also, those who are parti-
cularly affected with higher social security
payments, beginning next year not this
year, by the way--are those in a higher
income group who will have their retire-
ment benefits increased.
The tax reform proposals and the tax
reduction proposals submitted to Con-
gress this year will in almost every in-
stance more than compensate for any in-
crease in social security payments.
So, for all those reasons, I do not favor
any social security legislation this year. I
can't say unequivocally that I would veto
any such measure that came to my desk.
My guess is that the furor that was orig-
inally raised about social security benefits,
after more careful examination by the
American people and the news media, has
now ceased to be a burning issue. And my
prediction is that the Congress will not
send to me any legislation on social
security.
Q. Do you see any possibility of com-
promise with the energy bill, of a tie be-
tween those two?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at this moment, I
don't.
MINORITY GROUP OPPORTUNITIES
Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Haiman
from the St. Petersburg Times, St. Peters-
burg, Florida. Mr. President, this is the
tenth anniversary of the report of the
Kerner Commission on race problems in
America. And those who look at that re-
port and its allegations and what's hap-
pened since '68 are inclined to believe that
there's been some progress for black
Americans, but not much. The Carnegie
Corporation, in trying to account for why
we still seem to be moving toward two
separate and unequal societies in this
country, last night issued a report which
said-very briefly, one sentence and I
quote, "It's because there seems to be no
leader who is capable of evoking the na-
tion's latent sense of conscience and mobi-
lizing it to action."
My question, sir, is, could you be that
leader, should you be that leader, are you
that leader, and if you are, then how do
you plan to lead?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's incumbent
on a President to speak for the Nation
and particularly to speak for those citi-
zens of our Nation who are deprived, who
are needy, who are poor, who are non-
influential, who are inarticulate, and who
suffer because of the past discriminations
that have fallen upon black people and
other minority groups, and who still have
their own families devastated by poverty
731
