Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
was a year ago. Business profits in the
second half of 1977, compared to the year
before that, are 15 percent higher. And
during this time in 1977, the inflation rate
was held to a reasonable and a predictable
level.
But too many Americans—particularly
young people and members of minority
groups are still without jobs. I'm de-
termined to sustain our economy's prog-
ress toward high employment and rising
real income with both existing programs
and with new, very carefully targeted in-
centives to encourage private business to
hire the hardcore unemployed.
We have other economic problems
which cause us continuing deep concern.
Our Nation's economic health can be pro-
tected only if we can cope with the two
developments that now threaten it most
seriously—the high level of oil imports,
and the increasing rate of inflation. These
two problems both imperil our economic
recovery and threaten the strength of the
dollar. Both must be controlled.
The steps that we will take are part of
a wider international effort by the major
industrial nations to promote world re-
covery in 1978. In this effort, each coun-
try has a certain role to play, with the
United States maintaining its growth
while attacking inflation and limiting oil
imports, other countries achieving their
growth targets, which we have done, and
all countries avoiding protectionism and
providing greater aid for developing
nations.
In the hope that this concerted effort
will make a large contribution to world
recovery, I joined the leaders of six other
nations yesterday in announcing that we
will meet on July 16 and 17 in Bonn, Ger-
many, to press ahead with our common
efforts. But the first requirement is effec-
tive action within each nation.
The primary reason for our problems
with the balance of trade and the decreas-
ing value of the dollar is no mystery. Ten
years ago we were paying roughly $2 bil-
lion a year for imported oil. This year,
oil imports will cost us more than $45
billion.
Our energy problems are no longer
theoretical or potential. They are
active threat to the economic well-being
of our people.
Of all the major countries in the world,
the United States is the only one without
a national energy policy, and because the
Congress has not acted, other nations
have begun to doubt our will. Holders of
dollars throughout the world have inter-
preted our failure to act as a sign of
economic weakness, and these views
have been directly translated into a de-
creasing value for our currency.
The falling dollar in international
monetary markets makes inflation worse
here at home. It raises the price of goods
that we import, and this makes it easier
for domestic producers to raise their own
prices as well, because the competition is
not still there.
That's why we simply must have mean-
ingful energy legislation without further
delay. Our security depends on it, and our
economy demands it. If Congress does not
act, then oil imports will have to be
limited by administrative action under
present law, and this is certainly not the
most desirable solution. But one way or
the other, oil imports must be reduced.
Recently, our healthy and sustained
economic growth has exceeded that of
most other nations who are our major
trading partners. So, we've been better
able to buy their goods than they have to
buy our own.
Our standard of living and our ability
to grow depend upon the raw materials
and the goods that we import from other
countries. Therefore, to prevent further
serious trade imbalances, we need to ex-
port more agricultural products and other
722
