Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
tion Agency has ruled that the cooling sys-
tem, as proposed, was adequate.
I do think that a State, or the people
within a State, should have the right to
determine the degree of shifting to nuclear
power as a source for energy. As you
know, some States have had referenda on
this subject. This is a prerogative that the
State legislature and the Governor and,
in some instances, through referenda, can
be accomplished.
But the Federal Government does not
have and would not want to have the right
to prohibit the construction of a nuclear
powerplant in a State if the Federal laws
were met. But I do think that in New
Hampshire or Vermont or other States,
that the legislature certainly should have
a right to set the standards by which those
plants should be built.
Q. What about the voters themselves in
a referendum—not the legislature, the
individual?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that depends
upon whether or not there's a provision
for a referendum to override a State law.
As you know, in California, for instance,
there is an initiative by which citizens can
pass a law absent the legislature taking a
stand.
But I think that-I know New Hamp-
shire fairly well, having visited there sev-
eral times during 1976, and I know how
close your members of the legislature are
to the people. I think there are just a very
few people per member of the House. And
I think that your legislators are ade-
quately responsive.
U.S. ATTORNEY LINCOLN ALMOND
Q. Mr. President, Jim Roberts, WEAN
News in Providence. We have a U.S. at-
torney here, Lincoln Almond, who's a
Republican. You have not yet fired him,
but Tom Murray of Newport has been
recommended to take his place.
During your campaign, you promised
to take the politics out of the selection
process for U.S. attorneys. Can you tell me
first of all if you intend to replace Mr.
Almond and, if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. This
matter has not come to my attention yet.
Ordinarily, I wait until the Attorney Gen-
eral gives me a recommendation about a
replacement before I get involved in the
process.
The number of Republican U.S. attor-
neys still in office now, I think, are about
25 out of 90-something. I think during
the last 8 years, before I came in office,
there was never a Democrat appointed to
a U.S. attorneyship. But we've tried to
keep in office those who were doing a good
job, and when we have made a replace-
ment, I believe in every instance that the
selection has been made on the basis of
merit.
Whether or not that particular person
is going to be replaced, I do not know.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, given the tension
that already existed over the Israeli settle-
ment policy, do you have any second
thoughts about the timing of your an-
nouncement to sell warplanes to Egypt, or
was the timing of that announcement and
our public statements about the Israeli
settlement policy a message to the Israelis
to become more flexible in the current
negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. The two were not in-
terrelated in my decisionmaking process.
When I was in Saudi Arabia early in
January, I told them that shortly after the
Congress reconvened I would send up a
recommendation for military sales to the
Middle East.
Every time I've ever met with Prime
Minister Begin, both in the public sessions,
that is, with staff members, and also in my
private sessions with just him and me pres-
335
