May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Valley Authority. At that time in this re-
gion and throughout the South, including
where I lived in southern Georgia, there
existed a depression in our economy and
also of our human spirit. Our income was
extremely low. Our soil was eroding
rapidly. Our forests were being excessively
exploited. Rich mineral resources were
lying buried and undeveloped. And our
use of energy resources was still in a rela-
tively primitive stage.
TVA began to change all that. Dams
were built throughout the Tennessee
Valley to control floods and to generate
badly needed electricity. Forests were re-
planted. Conservation was encouraged.
Soil erosion was controlled. And good and
cheap soil fertilizers were developed and
distributed throughout the Southeast.
Farmers, manufacturers were encour-
aged to use the rich natural resources of
the Tennessee Valley and to use them
wisely. The TVA program was sound and
innovative, and it set a fine pattern for
change which has benefited our whole
Nation.
I'm very pleased to meet with you to-
day because I have long admired the
superlative work of the Tennessee Valley
Authority.
TVA has changed the lives of many
millions of Southerners. Those of us who
grew up on farms in the rural South saw
firsthand the dramatic improvements in
our lives that came when electricity re-
placed kerosene lamps and a lot of back-
breaking work which bound our lives al-
most exclusively to duties within a given
home or within a small family farm. TVA
pioneered in creating rural cooperatives
that brought the benefits of electricity to
farms all over the Nation and gave us a
new freedom, a new interest in a much
broader and a much better personal
world.
I've come because I want to acknowl-
edge the fine work that TVA has done
and to pledge you my support as Presi-
dent of the United States and to ask for
your help in the expanded role that I see
for TVA in years ahead.
The TVA has a unique requirement
that members of the agency's Board of
Directors be people who believe in the
basic purposes for which TVA was es-
tablished. Through the years, TVA has
been led by outstanding people who have
measured up to that standard well. Chair-
man Wagner's illustrious 44-year career
personifies TVA's success story, and I
thank him from the bottom of my heart.
I'm determined to appoint people to
the Board who will continue strong
leadership in TVA. I know that Dave
Freeman, as a veteran of this valley and a
native, shares this dedication. He cut his
teeth professionally as an engineer in
TVA. He came back here again to prac-
tice as a lawyer, and his thinking has been
in the forefront of raising our national
consciousness about how to produce and
to use energy wisely and well. He's going
to make an outstanding Chairman. And I
will soon send the names of the other
Board members to the Congress for con-
firmation.
We've never spent more time and effort
in screening out a long list of potential ap-
pointees than we have for these two selec-
tions now before me. We have devoted
the same amount of time and attention to
it as in the original selection of my own
Cabinet.
TVA has a long history of carrying
out difficult assignments. We in this coun-
try are now facing problems of energy
production and conservation, that we've
never faced before, and the proper
use of natural resources, which TVA
is uniquely suited to help solve. In fact,
if the U.S. Government didn't already
have a TVA, I would be fighting to cre-
ate one as part of the energy program.
TVA has that rare combination of
946
