Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 8
Because of these enormous profits, lob-
bying pressures on the Congress are also
enormous. But this is a tangible effort that,
if successful by the Congress, can save
consumers in our country, those who need
medical care, $30 billion in the next 5
years, and can save in Federal expendi-
tures billions of dollars in the cost of
Medicaid and Medicare.
The budget that I submitted to Con-
gress that was prepared last November
and December has a deficit of about $60
billion. We've cut it down now to $53
billion by proposing a lower tax reduction.
It's still too high. And still, there's pres-
sure in Congress to increase spending
unnecessarily.
I'd like to give one example. In edu-
cation, we had a 24-percent increase in
the educational budget in the proposed
expenditures for next year compared to
the current year. Still, the Congress wants
to increase this more. In basic opportunity
grants for college students, we advocated
an increase of 47 percent as an alternative
to tax credits for tuition. That's a $1.1
billion increase. Now the Congress wants
to add several hundred million dollars
more, completely excessive and threaten-
ing to unbalance the budget even further.
In defense spending, we had a $126
billion budget, the highest in history, care-
fully planned by me, the Defense Depart-
ment leaders, and others. The Congress-
the House has now voted to build a nu-
clear aircraft carrier which is not needed
and which will cost $22 billion.
We presently have a great shortage of
beef in our country. Because of this short-
age, which is going to continue for the
next 3 or 4 years, beef prices already this
year, since the first of January, have in-
creased more than 35 percent. We have a
lasting shortage of lean beef, used pri-
marily for hamburger, and which is to be
mixed with the trimmings from the fat
cattle produced in our own country.
The Secretary of Agriculture has de-
cided to negotiate to permit carefully con-
trolled, modest increases in beef imports
over the next year or so. This will not
change the price of fat cattle at all. It will
certainly not hurt the farmers who pro-
duce beef, but it will be a great help to
consumers.
Another administrative decision that is
being made now is in OSHA, the Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Administration.
We want to control cotton dust in textile
mills. Originally in 1976, a proposal was
made to do this that cost $2.7 billion in
investments of about $600 million a year.
We've now worked out, after very care-
ful planning and cooperation, a way to
control this threat to the health of
workers in textile mills, but with a greatly
reduced overall cost.
The point I'm making is that there is
not just one single action that can be taken
or avoided to control inflation. It covers
literally dozens, even hundreds of indi-
vidual decisions made by me, the Con-
gress, and the private sector of our econ-
omy. It absolutely must be done. It's not
easy to go against hospitals, to go against
doctors, to go against students, to go
against farmers, to go against veterans, to
go against the building of highways or the
building of nuclear aircraft carriers. But
someone has to hold the line on the
budget, and I'm determined to do so. This
is one of the most important and difficult
decisions that we'll have to make, and
there are literally hundreds of decisions to
be made. And I call upon the Congress to
join in with me to avoid a series of vetoes
that will create disharmony in our Gov-
ernment.
I call on the private sector to join in
and not mount intense lobbying efforts to
1061
