Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Congress put on the administration. And
I believe that this is something that
should have been done.
We have also proposed, through the
normal or existing legislative authority
within the Defense Department, to expe-
dite the consideration of both the Vietnam
war protestors and also deserters.
This is a matter that's already author-
ized by law. We've tried to make sure
that there was a distinction drawn be-
tween different levels of seriousness of de-
sertion. If someone deserted on the field
of battle and therefore endangered the
lives of fellow warriors, this is a very seri-
ous matter. And we tried to draw a dis-
tinction there between other categories of
desertion.
But I don't think it's been adequate yet.
We're doing the best we can under the
prevailing law that's been in existence for
a long time within the Defense Depart-
ment, and we've pursued the Vietnam
consideration to the utmost of my ability.
PROJECT SEAFARER
Q. Mr. President, while campaigning
in Michigan, you made a campaign prom-
ise that Project Seafarer would not be
located in Michigan against the wishes of
the citizens. Apparently that's changed.
I'd like to know if you feel that have
broken a promise and, if so, how you'll
justify this to the people of Michigan.
you
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't broken a
promise, and it hasn't changed. So far as
I know, no work is being done on Project
Seafarer. I would like to say that I, as
Commander in Chief of the military
forces and as an ex-submariner myself, am
deeply concerned about this problem. We
need to have a way to communicate with
our submerged submarines. And we have
tried to modify any sort of environmental
damage to Wisconsin or to Michigan in
order to make the project acceptable to
the people there.
And my own hope is that the Secretary
of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the
congressional delegation, perhaps myself
personally, in reassessing how we can sub-
stitute something for Project Seafarer,
can make it acceptable to the people in
the area that's required.
If our Nation should be endangered in
a time of war, the loss of services of a sub-
stantial portion of our submarine fleet,
because of unwarranted opposition,
would certainly be a serious thing for our
country. But I've not broken that promise
or any others and don't intend to.
ABORTION
Q. Mr. Carter, you stated that you
were personally opposed to abortion and
the government funding of abortions.
How do you reconcile this with your sup-
port of the ratification of the ERA?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly favor the
ratification of ERA. And on this partic-
ular point, I have got the full support of
Midge Costanza.
I think that the government should find
every possible alternative to abortion. I
don't think that abortion should be en-
couraged by the government under any
circumstances. And I think that govern-
ment payments for abortions should be
limited to instances where the woman's
life is threatened or where the pregnancy
is a result of rape or incest.
This has been my position throughout
the campaign. It was my position when I
was Governor. It was part of the Georgia
law which was stricken down by the Su-
preme Court. It's also, I think, the posi-
tion of the Secretary of HEW. And it's
also the position of Congress.
I don't see the two to be interrelated at
all. I believe that to provide government
funding for abortion is, in effect, a means
of encouraging abortion as one extension
of contraceptive procedures. I think a
good education program, the making
464
