May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sponsibility to care for the environment,
the ecology, the place where we live. We
have a responsibility for stewardship.
The Bible says that the body is a temple
that the body is a temple
of God and that we should care for our
own bodies and for those around us.
So, I think that as we've gone through
this phase of constantly deteriorating
commitment to the premises of God,
we've now begun to realize our faults, our
failures, and with that realization can
come the basis for correcting our defects,
answering difficult questions, resolving
apparently insurmountable problems,
and joining our hearts and minds to-
gether in a commitment for a better fu-
ture a future for the Earth, a future
for our fellow men, and a future for our
spirit as human beings under the guid-
ance and with the commitment to God
through prayer.
These should be the noble endeavors
of all human beings. And in our own
great Nation, the United States, we have
a pulpit and we have a base for correct-
ing our own mistakes and setting example
for others throughout the Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 a.m. at
the Currigan Exhibition Center.
Denver, Colorado
Remarks at a Meeting With Environmental,
Community, and Governmental Leaders.
May 4, 1978
Senator Haskell, Senator Hart, Governor
Dick Lamm, Representatives Tim Wirth
and Pat Schroeder, Mayor McNichols,
ladies and gentlemen:
Yesterday when I arrived for Sun Day,
it was raining. This morning when I'm
going to talk about the smog [laugh-
ter]—in Denver, you have beautiful skies.
I think this illustrates what careful
planning can do. And I have had my
heart warmed with the welcome here,
and it is a wonderful thing for me to
come back to your beautiful State and a
beautiful city.
During the past decades, Americans
have become dramatically more aware of
two momentous problems, the problem of
the environment and the problem of
energy. It's no accident that these two
great issues have become prominent at
almost exactly the same time, for the use
and abuse of energy has led to many of
the injuries to the air, to the land, and to
water.
Our growing consciousness of the en-
vironment has helped us to understand
that we must develop and use energy far
more carefully than we've ever done
before. Today I'm pleased to announce
two important initiatives that will help
us to live at peace with our environmen-
tal needs and also our energy needs—the
Denver Air Project, which I'll outline in
a few minutes, and our new, 5-year pro-
posal for inland energy impact assistance.
Not long ago in Denver, you could
almost always see the mountains in the
distance and you could almost always
draw a deep breath of air with pleasure
and safety. But today, a brown cloud of
dangerous pollution frequently hides the
mountains and invades the lungs of the
people of this city.
Because of the great resources of the
Rocky Mountain Plains Region-energy,
mineral, agricultural, recreational-Den-
ver has been growing at a rate two and a
half times greater than that of the aver-
age American community.
By the year 2000, if present growth
continues, you will, in Denver, add an-
other Washington, D.C. Car use here,
automobiles, has grown even faster than
that. In fact, Denver has more cars per
832
