Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
value our unique cultures, which we are
determined to preserve.
I have seen the greatness of Brazil dur-
ing my visits to Manaus, to Belém, Recife,
to São Paulo, and to Rio de Janeiro.
Brazil's rise to world leadership has
earned the admiration of the people every-
where in the world, but nowhere more so
than in the United States. Yours is the
fifth largest nation and the sixth most pop-
ulous. Your national product is already
the world's eighth largest, and it is grow-
ing at one of the fastest rates in the world.
You have the vision, the energy, and
the creativity of a truly great power, and
the world must depend upon you to apply
those talents to the problems that affect
us all.
Both our nations are turning to nuclear
power as one of the answers to our energy
problem, and we both believe that peace-
ful use of atomic power is not incompati-
ble with the need to prevent nuclear pro-
liferation.
Like you, my Nation is concerned that
the system of world trade be made fairer
and more open and that all nations have
an equal chance to participate.
Today all of us are joining in the world-
wide struggle to advance the cause of
human freedom and the rule of law. This
is a struggle that will prevail only when
we are willing to recognize our own lim-
itations and to speak to each other frankly
and with understanding.
Our friendship with Brazil is an old
one. In 1824 the United States was the
first nation to recognize your independ-
ence. Our friendship can be even stronger
now as we accept as equals the responsi-
bilities the world asks of us.
Mr. President, I must not fail to men-
tion with gratitude your sharing with us
one of Brazil's greatest treasures, perhaps
the greatest athlete of all, the incompara-
ble Péle. He is a friend of mine, and his
courage on the playing field has been an
inspiration to the people of the United
States.
My wife, Rosalynn, visited you last year,
and her accounts of your hospitality and
your very useful discussions, Mr. Presi-
dent, made me all the more eager to visit
Brazil once more.
We both know that personal contact
between leaders can build understanding
between nations, and I believe that our
conversations will result in a reaffirmation
of the mutual respect and friendship that
has blessed our two nations for so long a
time.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 5:08 p.m. at
the Aeroporto Militar. President Geisel spoke
in Portuguese, and his remarks were trans-
lated by an interpreter.
Following the ceremony, President Carter
proceeded to the Palacio do Planalto for meet-
ings with President Geisel.
In the evening, the President attended a
working dinner hosted by President Geisel at
the Palacio da Alvorada.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 30, 1978
Held in Brasília, Brazil
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, ladies
and gentlemen. I'm very delighted to be
here in Brasília to participate in a live
press conference, and I will alternate
questions between the Brazilian and the
American press.
I'll begin with Mr. Bonfim.
U.S.-BRAZILIAN RELATIONS
Q. [in Portuguese] Mr. President, at
the beginning of your administration
there was a clear tendency to isolate and
treat Brazil coldly in favor of demo-
cratically elected governments, elected by
the people.
Yesterday at the airport you stressed
the need for cooperation between Brazil
627
