Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 10
I've just increased the proposed alloca-
tion of funds for education, which brings
the increase in 1 year above 15 percent
to about 20 percent. We want this trend
to continue.
My own background, as many of you
know, before I got involved in elective
politics, was in the administration of the
public school system. I've been dedicated
to it.
We started our married life and had
our second son born in Hawaii. So I wear
the beautiful flowers with pride. And
we've always had our sons and our daugh-
ter in the public schools.
When I first found that I would be
moving to Washington, Rosalynn and I
had some very sincere and quiet talks
between us about Amy's own education.
We had heard bad reports about the pub-
lic school system in the District of Co-
lumbia. But I felt rather than move away
from the schools, that we ought to get
ourselves more deeply involved in the
public school system, thinking at that time
that there might be some sacrifice on the
part of Amy to demonstrate the First
Family's interest and commitment to the
public school system.
That has not been the case. It has not
been a sacrifice. I think Amy has bene-
fited greatly from what she has derived
in the public school system in the District.
And I hope that our own involvement
in it now and in the future will help to
strengthen the interest of parents in the
public school system throughout the
country.
We have learned a lot in this first year.
We had never lived nor served in Wash-
ington. I had never been part of the
Federal Government at all, except as a
naval officer. And I think the progress has
already been very good. And I hope that
you, in the experience of the 1976 election
campaign and also in your experiences
in politics at the State level, will not nar-
rowly restrict your interests just to mat-
ters that relate to schoolteachers or school
programs or even students, because the
thrust of our Nation, what it stands for,
what it is, what it can be, is your respon-
sibility, not only as a private citizen but
also, I think, as one who helps to mold
opinion.
You're respected not only as individual
teachers and administrators but also be-
cause you have a position of leadership
among your own peer group. And I hope
that you'll be vigorous and forceful when
you take on a project in helping to shape
our country for the better. I trust your
judgment. I've learned since I've been in
Washington that sometimes the interest
groups can be very selfish. But my own
experience with you is that your motives
are basically the same as mine. And that's
a compliment, I think, to me when I say
it, not a compliment to you.
We have a group of good Members of
Congress. I think their commitment to ed-
ucation is superb. I've gotten to know
those leaders very well in recent months.
I hope that you would help me, for
instance, with the Panama Canal treaties.
This is a matter where the Nation's pub-
lic posture is at stake. It's a pure example
of a bipartisan approach to a difficult
political issue but a crucial issue involv-
ing statesmanship.
And many of the Members of the Sen-
ate tell me privately that they know that
it's a right and a proper and decent thing
to do, but they are fearful about the politi-
cal consequences at home. And I think
if they knew with a personal letter from
you or even an organizational expression
that you would give them your support
and appreciation, it would help me in
that crucial issue.
There are many others where the inter-
est of our own country might very well be
at stake that I hope that you will help me.
297
