Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 1
rights, as well as their political and civil
liberties.
I believe, as I know you do as well, that
every person also has a right to education,
to health care, to nutrition, to shelter, to
food, and to employment. These are the
foundations on which men and women
can build better lives.
This is our second great, common goal
between the United States and Nigeria-
human development made possible by fair
and equitable economic progress.
My country is ready to do its fair share
in support of African development, both
because it's in our own interest and also
because it's right. More and more, the
economic well-being of Americans de-
pends on the growth of the developing
nations here in Africa and in other parts
of the world. A good example is our rela-
tionship with Nigeria, which is marked by
respect for each other's independence and
a growing recognition of our interdepen-
dence.
Nigeria, for instance, is the United
States second largest supplier of imported
crude oil. The United States is the largest
market for Nigeria's petroleum, and thus
the largest source of the revenue which is
so vital to Nigeria's dynamic, economic
development program.
But the scope of our commerce is much
broader than in petroleum alone. Our
growing trade serves the interests of both
countries. When we purchase Nigerian
products, we contribute to Nigerian de-
velopment. But unless we can also share
our technology and share our productive
capacity with you, our own economy
slows down, American workers lose their
jobs, and the resulting economic sluggish-
ness means that we can buy less from you
Financial encouragement to developing
nations is therefore in our interest, be-
cause a world of prosperous, developing
economies is a world in which America's
economy can prosper.
We are increasing our bilateral devel-
opment assistance to Africa, and on my
return to Washington, I will recommend
to the Congress that the United States
contribute $125 million to the second re-
plenishment of the African Development
Fund.
I'm happy to announce, also, that just
before leaving Washington, I authorized
our Corps of Engineers to offer to partici-
pate, as requested by you, in the compre-
hensive development of the Niger River
System.
We are giving new priority to cooperat-
ing in international efforts to improve
health around the world. We would like
to study with you how we can best work
with Nigeria and other nations of Africa
to deal with the killing and the crippling
diseases that still afflict this continent.
Three days ago I spoke in Caracas,
Venezuela, about our commitment to in-
ternational economic growth and equity.
All of us can gain if we act fairly toward
one another.
Nigeria acted on this principle in help-
ing to negotiate the Lomé Convention
and the birth of the Economic Commu-
nity of West African States.
All nations can act on this principle by
making world trade increasingly free and
fair. Private investment can help, under
arrangements benefiting both the inves-
tors and also the host countries like your
own. And sharing technology can make a
crucial difference. We are especially
pleased that Nigeria is sending so many
of
your young people to the United States
for training in the middle-level technical
skills.
There must be fair international agree-
ments on such issues as stabilizing com-
modity prices, the creation of a Common
Fund, and relieving the debt burden of
the poorest nations.
Every government has the obligation to
promote economic justice within its own
649
