Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 31
past several months in the economic field
which has opened up prospects for the
amelioration of external payments. Stress-
ing the importance he attached to closer
economic cooperation with the United
States, he also emphasized the necessity
of a sound and healthy economy, both for
the maintenance of an efficient defense
structure and the strengthening of demo-
cratic institutions. The President has
shown full understanding in this respect.
Also present for the meeting were
Günduz Ökçün, Foreign Minister; Has-
an Esat Işik, Defense Minister; Ambas-
sador Sükrü Elekdağ, Secretary General
of the Foreign Ministry; Melih Esenbel,
United
Turkish Ambassador to the
States; Secretary of State Vance; and Dr.
Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs. Matthew Nim-
etz, Counselor of the State Department;
George Vest, Assistant Secretary of State
for European Affairs; and Paul Henze,
NSC staff member, also took part in the
meeting.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Giulio Andreotti of Italy
White House Statement. May 31, 1978
President Carter met this morning in
the White House with Giulio Andreotti,
President of the Council of Ministers of
the Italian Republic. The two leaders had
a useful discussion of certain world issues,
Alliance questions, and recent develop-
ments in both countries. Also present
were Foreign Minister Arnaldo Forlani,
Italian Ambassador Paolo Pansa, Minis-
ter Umberto La Rocoa, Secretary of State
Cyrus Vance, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assist-
ant to the President for National Security
Affairs, and Gregory Treverton of the
NSC staff.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the joint initiatives to enhance
the relationship between Italy and the
United States decided upon during the
Prime Minister's visit to Washington in
July 1977. A series of Cabinet-level visits
has taken place in both directions over the
last 10 months. New agreements have
been reached in the areas of health, social
security, exchange of language-teaching
experts, scientific cooperation, and others.
The two leaders expressed their satisfac-
tion with progress achieved so far and
indicated that
that
programs to further
strengthen bilateral relations will con-
tinue, in particular a renewed emphasis
on the Bilateral Energy Working Group.
Special attention was also given to the
common problem of unemployment.
Prime Minister Andreotti described
several recent encouraging developments
in his government's efforts to bring to
justice the murderers of Aldo Moro. The
President expressed our sympathetic in-
terest in the Italian antiterrorist efforts.
President Carter pointed to the resilience
with which Italian democratic institutions
withstood the terrorist attack and to other
encouraging recent events. He reaffirmed
the confidence of the United States in
Italy's ability to overcome present diffi-
culties and continue to play its active role
in the Western Alliance.
The two leaders will see each other at
the summit meeting in Bonn in July.
North Atlantic Alliance Summit
Text of Remarks on NATO Defense Policy.
May 31, 1978
Thank you, Mr. Secretary General.
These briefings illustrate the magnitude
of the challenges we face. They do not
justify alarm, but they should strengthen
our resolve.
1019
