Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sionalism and the competence of the
collection and analysis and distribution of
intelligence information to me and to
other consumers in the Federal Govern-
ment. Under Admiral Turner, this coordi-
nation has been superb. And I'm very
pleased this morning, after months of work
with the NSC-the National Security
Council with the Department of De-
fense, with Admiral Turner, the CIA, the
Congress committees, particularly the
Senate Intelligence Committee, to have
evolved an Executive order which estab-
lishes in clear terms the responsibilities and
limitations of the collection of intelligence,
of counterintelligence, and also the dis-
tribution of material that hasn't been
analyzed.
The Director of Central Intelligence,
Admiral Turner, will be responsible for
tasking or assigning tasks to all those
who collect intelligence. He will also have
full control of the intelligence budget and
will also be responsible for the analysis of
information that does come in from all
sources in the foreign intelligence field.
This order also gives a great deal of
additional responsibility to the Attorney
General to make sure that the civil liber-
ties and the privacy of American citizens
is adequately protected and that the con-
stitutional provisions and the laws of our
Nation are carried out precisely. There's
a clear description of the duties and re-
sponsibilities of all those that are involved
in the collection and distribution of intel-
ligence information.
I'm very proud of this Executive order.
It will be a basis for congressional action
on a charter to be written for the Intelli-
gence Community, and I think later on,
we'll have one for the FBI, as well.
Under this order, though, under
counterintelligence, the duties of the FBI
are also spelled out. So, this is a fairly
concise, clear delineation of how the In-
telligence Community will be operating
in the months ahead.
I want to express my thanks to all those
that have been involved in the process.
And after I sign the Executive order this
morning, there will be a complete briefing
for the press by the members of the NSC,
the Department of Defense, the Attorney
General's office, and Admiral Turner,
representing the Intelligence Community.
So, I want to thank all of you standing
behind me, and I will now sign the Exec-
utive order which, I think, is a major
stride forward. Thank you very much.
[At this point the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
Fritz, if you would come over and say
a word?
VICE PRESIDENT MONDALE. I have
some notes.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. [Laughter]
VICE PRESIDENT MONDALE. Mr. Presi-
dent, members of the Senate and House
intelligence committee:
When I served in the Senate, it was our
task for some time to explore and in-
vestigate abuses by our intelligence agen-
cies. It was not a happy job, and it dis-
closed not only many abuses of the civil
liberties of our people but, in many ways,
decisions and actions that were counter-
productive to the interests of our country.
In my opinion, the most important
principle that this Executive order stands
for is that it demonstrates that we can
fully protect our Nation and do so within
the law, and not only do it within the
law but do it better than under a cir-
cumstance which permits us to resort to
illegality.
Underlying the abuses that we uncov-
ered was an unexpressed but clearly evi-
dent conclusion on the part of some that
we could not defend our country against
her real enemies except through illegal-
ity. Once you examine that, it's true that
190
