Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
consciousness the right of American citi-
zens to have access to Government records
on them. And the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act was caused by his long and tena-
cious battle for that fight against depri-
vation of privacy. Before many people
began to worry about the Vietnam war,
Charles Whalen was speaking out in a
very courageous way. Shirley Pettis, after
the tragic death of her husband, volun-
teered her services to our country. And
Dewey Bartlett, who hasn't been feeling
well lately, has courageously served his
country as well.
We've got some famous people here
tonight that I've admired for a long time
who served on the House Judiciary Com-
mittee during the impeachment proceed-
ings, at a time when our Nation's spirits
were desperately low and there was a gen-
uine doubt about the integrity of many
public servants in Washington and there
was also some concern about the compe-
tence of some of the Members of Congress.
And to have the television cameras fo-
cused on these men and women who did
such a superb job, both Democrats and
Republicans, transformed our Nation's
spirit and let us weather one of the most
serious threats to the confidence in Gov-
ernment among the American people that
we've ever experienced.
Three of those are retiring this year,
Barbara Jordan-and, Barbara, we're go-
ing to miss you-and Jim Mann and
Charlie Wiggins, all of whom were very
famous, and rightly so.
I said over tonight at the banquet-I
was feeling good when I came in here this
evening-the vote on the B-1 and the vote
on the Panama Canal treaties, I was in
high spirits. But as I sat through the
evening meal and looked at my own table
and realized what I was going to be losing
next year as President, a sober and sad
feeling came over me.
It's going to be very difficult for me as
President to get along next year without
this group of superb leaders. And on be-
half of the American people and as Presi-
dent of our country, I want to thank all
of you for the tremendous service that you
have already given to our Nation and let
you know how much I appreciate what
you've done for me in my first year as
President.
Thank you very, very much.
You may have noticed from the dessert,
the cherry pie, that today is George
Washington's birthday. And we're eating
in a room that honors George and Martha
Washington.
He was the only President who didn't
live in this house. He lived in Philadelphia
and in New York when he served his two
terms as President. He faced tremendous
challenges, and of course, the times were
quite different. In those early days, the
President never shook hands with people.
It was considered a proper thing for a per-
son when they addressed a President to
bow, and the President would bow in
return.
I personally like the new handshaking
days myself. I don't think I would have
ever been elected to this office had I just
bowed to people in factory shift lines.
[Laughter] But George Washington ob-
viously set an example for service that's
stood us in good stead.
Tonight, we are commemorating public
service, that's been demonstrated by all of
you, in honoring George Washington
the part of George Washington-repeat-
with a fine program. We have, reading
ing words that he actually used during his
lifetime about public service-an Acad-
emy Award winning actor, Cliff Robert-
son. And along with him, reading the
words of Martha Washington, Thomas
Jefferson, and perhaps some other more
minor characters, Jill Eikenberry and
Philip Anglim.
394
