Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 23
out the private as well as public sector.
But each new prohibition against dis-
crimination unfortunately has brought
with it a further dispersal of Federal equal
employment opportunity responsibility.
This fragmentation of authority among a
number of Federal agencies has meant
confusion and ineffective enforcement for
employees, regulatory duplication and
needless expense for employers.
Fair employment is too vital for hap-
hazard enforcement. My Administration
will aggressively enforce our civil rights
laws. Although discrimination in any area
has severe consequences, limiting eco-
nomic opportunity affects access to edu-
cation, housing and health care. I,
therefore, ask you to join with me to reor-
ganize administration of the civil rights
laws and to begin that effort by reorganiz-
ing the enforcement of those laws which
ensure an equal opportunity to a job.
Eighteen government units now exer-
cise important responsibilities under stat-
utes, Executive Orders and regulations re-
lating to equal employment opportunity:
• The Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission (EEOC) enforces Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
which bans employment discrimination
based on race, national origin, sex or re-
ligion. The EEOC acts on individual
complaints and also initiates private sec-
tor cases involving a "pattern or practice"
of discrimination.
• The Department of Labor and 11
other agencies enforce Executive Order
11246. This prohibits discrimination in
employment on the basis of race, national
origin, sex, or religion and requires af-
firmative action by government contrac-
tors. While the Department now coor-
dinates enforcement of this "contract
compliance" program, it is actually ad-
ministered by eleven other departments
and agencies. The Department also ad-
ministers those statutes requiring con-
tractors to take affirmative action to em-
ploy handicapped people, disabled vet-
erans and Vietnam veterans.
In addition, the Labor Department en-
forces the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which
prohibits employers from paying unequal
wages based on sex, and the Age Dis-
crimination in Employment Act of 1967,
which forbids age discrimination against
persons between the ages of 40 and 65.
• The Department of Justice litigates
Title VII cases involving public sector
employers-State and local governments.
The Department also represents the Fed-
eral government in lawsuits against Fed-
eral contractors and grant recipients who
are in violation of Federal nondiscrim-
ination prohibitions.
• The Civil Service Commission
(CSC) enforces Title VII and all other
nondiscrimination and affirmative ac-
tion requirements for Federal employ-
ment. The CSC rules on complaints filed
by individuals and monitors affirmative
action plans submitted annually by other
Federal agencies.
• The Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Coordinating Council includes rep-
resentatives from EEOC, Labor, Justice,
CSC and the Civil Rights Commission. It
is charged with coordinating the Federal
equal employment opportunity enforce-
ment effort and with eliminating overlap
and inconsistent standards.
• In addition to these major govern-
ment units, other agencies enforce vari-
ous equal employment opportunity re-
quirements which apply to specific grant
programs. The Department of Treasury,
for example, administers the anti-discrim-
ination prohibitions applicable to recipi-
ents of revenue sharing funds.
These programs have had only limited
success. Some of the past deficiencies
include:
401
