May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ratings), and also found in the following
statutes:
(i) 5 U.S.C. 1504-1507, 7325, 5335,
7521, 7701 and 8347 (d);
(ii) 38 U.S.C. 2023
(b) There shall remain with the Board
the functions vested in the United States
Civil Service Commission, or its Chair-
man, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1104(a) (5)
and (b) (4) to enforce decisions rendered
pursuant to the authorities described in
Subsection (a) of this Section.
(c) Any member of the Board may re-
quest from the Director, in connection
with a matter then pending before the
Board for adjudication, an advisory opin-
ion concerning interpretation of rules,
regulations, or other policy directives
promulgated by the Office of Personnel
Management.
(d) Whenever the interpretation or
application of a rule, regulation, or policy
directive of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement is at issue in any hearing, adjudi-
cation, or appeal before the Board, the
Board shall promptly notify the Director,
and the Director shall have the right to
intervene in such proceedings.
(e) The Board shall designate individ-
uals to chair performance rating boards
established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 4305.
(f) The Chairman of the Board shall
designate representatives to chair boards
of review established pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3383(b).
(g) The Board may from time to time
conduct special studies relating to the
Civil Service, and to other merit systems
in the Executive Branch and report to the
President and the Congress whether the
public interest in a work force free of per-
sonnel practices prohibited by law or reg-
ulations is being adequately protected. In
carrying out this function the Board shall
make such inquiries as may be necessary,
and, to the extent permitted by law, shall
have access to personnel records or infor-
mation collected by the Office of Person-
nel Management and may require addi-
tional reports from other agencies as
needed. The Board shall make such rec-
ommendations to the President and the
Congress as it deems appropriate.
(h) The Board may delegate the per-
formance of any of its administrative
functions to any officer or employee of
the Board.
(i) The Board shall have the authority
to prescribe such regulations as may be
necessary for the performance of its func-
tions. The Board shall not issue advisory
opinions. The Board may issue rules and
regulations, consistent with statutory re-
quirements, defining its review proce-
dures, including the time limits within
which an appeal must be filed and the
rights and responsibilities of the parties
to an appeal. All regulations of the Board
shall be published in the FEDERAL
REGISTER.
SECTION 203. Savings Provision. The
Board shall accept appeals from agency
actions effected prior to the effective date
of this Plan. On the effective date of Part
II of this Plan, proceedings then before
the Federal Employee Appeals Authority
shall continue before the Board; proceed-
ings then before the Appeals Review
Board and proceedings then before the
United States Civil Service Commission
on appeal from decisions of the Appeals
Review Board shall continue before the
Board; other employee appeals before
boards or other bodies pursuant to law or
regulation shall continue to be processed
pursuant to those laws or regulations.
Nothing in this section shall affect the
right of a Federal employee to judicial
review under applicable law.
SECTION 204. The Special Counsel.
(a) There shall be a Special Counsel
to the Board appointed for a term of four
years by the President by and with the
956
