Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
But I don't know of any instance in
South Africa in the last 2 years where our
own influence has not been increasing. I
know of no place where it has been de-
creasing. And we've tried to spread our
influence not on the basis of military in-
tervention as a single nation, but we've
tried to bring in other leaders both in
Africa and the black nations, the Orga-
nization of African Unity, and the Euro-
pean nations and Canada, to join with us
to bring about a peaceful progress of ma-
jority rule, independence, and democracy
in South Africa, and to minimize the influ-
ence of the Soviet Union and Cuba, which
was increasing very rapidly up until a year
ago.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
STANDARDS OF GOVERNMENT
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I
hope you enjoy your visit in our State. My
name is Keith White. I attend Manchester
West High School. I live in Bedford.
Your position as a Christian was proba-
bly a very major element in your win-
ning campaign. I'm curious, what do you
think the Government's responsibility to
the spiritual and moral development of its
people should be? What do you think it
is? And since you have been President,
how have you tried to meet that respon-
sibility? I think this is a very pertinent
question to the youth here, because in our
times, there is a great deal of misleading
forces in the world.
THE PRESIDENT. Keith, that's a good
question, and I'm glad you referred to
youth. I think if there is one group in our
Nation who is the most alienated and dis-
illusioned when public officials do not ex-
emplify decency and morality and hu-
manity and sensitivity and compassion,
it's young people. You've been in the fore-
front, you and others who are now older
who were your age, of trying to restore
morality to our country within our Nation
and on international affairs.
When we were struggling in this coun-
try to give black people and other minor-
ity groups equal treatment under the
Constitution-the simple right to vote, to
go to school, to have a job, to own a
home-young people were the ones who
were courageous enough to endanger
their physical health or even lives to strive
for an unpopular cause.
When our Nation was involved in the
war in Vietnam, the ones who first spoke
out and said, "This is a war that's not
compatible with the principles of Ameri-
ca" were young people. At first it was
a tiny group. Then it grew and grew,
primarily through people your age or per-
haps college age. And eventually the older
people, the parents said, "Well, maybe my
child is right." And ultimately, we with-
drew from Vietnam because of the influ-
ence in young people demanding that our
country stand for the same principles on
which it was founded and which made it
great.
I sensed, as I campaigned throughout
this country for 2 years, that there was a
frustrated feeling and a sense of despair
and even embarrassment about some of
Washington: the Watergate revelations,
the things that had been happening in
the breakdown in compatibility and part-
nership between the President and the
another for mistakes that were honestly
Congress, the constant blaming of one
made, the revelations about illegalities in
the CIA, and involvement in the Vietnam
war, as well.
And I think that we felt that on an in-
ternational basis, that our country had
abandoned those principles. We espoused
any sort of totalitarian dictatorship if it
furthered our own interests temporarily
in different parts of the world. And we
forgot about trying to spread what we
375
