June 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that you understand them, because for
you, they are not just a distant and im-
personal foreign policy abstraction, but
something that alters your lives in a direct
and immediate way.
You know, as I do, that a great deal
will change as a result of these treaties.
A few of you will be leaving the only
place on Earth you've ever called home.
That's a hard and a painful thing to do.
The adjustments and uncertainties that
you now face will not be easy. I under-
stand that.
I understand, too, why you love this
place. Seventy-five years ago, Americans
came here as builders. In quiet ways,
often unrecognized, often unappreciated,
we have been builders ever since. For all
the rest of your lives, every one of you
will be proud, and justifiably so, to have
been part of this canal, proud of what
you've built and protected and loved.
That is evident, not only from what
you say but what you do. The care and
affection which you continue to show in
the operation of the canal is clear evi-
dence of the deep feeling which you and
the American people have for the canal.
So, I come here today not to win you over
to the decision made by me and the
American Congress, but because there
are two things that I want very much to
say.
First, the American people and I ap-
preciate what you are doing here and,
secondly, the American people and I care
what happens to you.
In the millions of words spoken and
written about the treaties, our apprecia-
tion and our concern have not been
clearly expressed. We've tried to demon-
strate these sentiments in the treaties as
well as in the separate agreements and
the annexes.
The rights of American workers will
be protected. The treaties guarantee to
employees:
First, in general, terms and conditions.
of employees which are no less favorable
than they are now; nothing will be done
to decrease the quality of your status as
employees; secondly, the right to collec-
tive bargaining and, as you know, for the
next 22 years, the entity with which you
will bargain will be a part of the United
States Government; third, optional early
retirement for those who desire it.
We hope that as you understand clear-
ly the conditions under which you will be
working and living, that you will decide
to stay on as a constructive and a helpful
and a dependable employee. But if there
should be individual instances where you
find this not to be true, then earlier re-
tirement benefits will be made available
to you so that you will not suffer under
any circumstances.
The United States Government will be
responsible to you for implementing the
treaty provisions fully and fairly. We will
continue to do so in the enabling legisla-
tion which the Congress will begin to con-
sider later this year and next year.
We will see to it that this enabling leg-
islation ensures government-wide job
placement and liberalized retirement ben-
efits, better than those that you have now.
To the limit of our ability in an interna-
tional agreement, our negotiations with
Panama have sought to secure your rights
and your welfare and your safety and
your peace of mind.
For example, we've tried to preserve
during the life of the treaty as many as
possible of the civil liberties that Ameri-
cans cherish. To ensure that they will be
respected, I discussed them with the Pan-
amanian officials yesterday and told them
of the importance that we attach to these
basic and important rights.
Everyone understands that we want to
enter upon a new era of harmonious co-
operation and good will between the peo-
ple of Panama and the Americans asso-
ciated with the canal and that there is no
1126
