Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 1
board of directors. Five members will be
from the United States and four will be
from Panama. Within the area of the
present Canal Zone, we have the right to
select whatever lands and waters our mil-
itary and civilian forces need to maintain,
to operate, and to defend the canal.
About 75 percent of those who now
maintain and operate the canal are Pan-
amanians; over the next 22 years, as we
manage the canal together, this percent-
age will increase. The Americans who
work on the canal will continue to have
their rights of employment, promotion,
and retirement carefully protected.
We will share with Panama some of the
fees paid by shippers who use the canal.
As in the past, the canal should continue
to be self-supporting.
This is not a partisan issue. The treaties
are strongly backed by President Gerald
Ford and by Former Secretaries of State
Dean Rusk and Henry Kissinger. They
are endorsed by our business and profes-
sional leaders, especially those who rec-
ognize the benefits of good will and trade
with other nations in this hemisphere.
And they were endorsed overwhelmingly
by the Senate Foreign Relations Commit-
tee which, this week, moved closer to
ratification by approving the treaties, al-
though with some recommended changes
which we do not feel are needed.
And the treaties are supported enthu-
siastically by every member of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff-General George Brown,
the Chairman, General Bernard Rogers,
Chief of Staff of the Army, Admiral
James Holloway, Chief of Naval Opera-
tions, General David Jones, Chief of Staff
of the Air Force, and General Louis Wil-
son, Commandant of the Marine Corps-
responsible men whose profession is the
defense of this Nation and the preserva-
tion of our security.
The treaties also have been overwhelm-
ingly supported throughout Latin Amer-
ica, but predictably, they are opposed
abroad by some who are unfriendly to the
United States and who would like to see
disorder in Panama and a disruption of
our political, economic, and military ties
with our friends in Central and South
America and in the Caribbean.
I know that the treaties also have been
opposed by many Americans. Much of
that opposition is based on misunder-
standing and misinformation. I've found
that when the full terms of the agreement
are known, most people are convinced
that the national interests of our country
will be served best by ratifying the
treaties.
Tonight, I want you to hear the facts. I
want to answer the most serious questions
and tell you why I feel the Panama Canal
treaties should be approved.
The most important reason-the only
reason to ratify the treaties is that they
are in the highest national interest of the
United States and will strengthen our po-
sition in the world. Our security interests
will be stronger. Our trade opportunities
will be improved. We will demonstrate
that as a large and powerful country, we
are able to deal fairly and honorably with
a proud but smaller sovereign nation. We
will honor our commitment to those en-
gaged in world commerce that the Pan-
ama Canal will be open and available for
use by their ships-at a reasonable and
competitive cost-both now and in the
future.
Let me answer specifically the most
common questions about the treaties.
Will our Nation have the right to pro-
tect and defend the canal against any
armed attack or threat to the security of
the canal or of ships going through it?
The answer is yes, and is contained in
both treaties and also in the statement of
understanding between the leaders of our
two nations.
259
