Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 21
The difficult decisions in their region
can only be made by Bolivia, Peru, Chile.
But we stand ready with the Organiza-
tion of American States, the United Na-
tions, and other countries to help find a
solution to Bolivia's land-locked status
that will be acceptable to all parties and
will contribute to the permanent peace
and development of the area.
In this same spirit, we should work to-
gether to bring into effect the farsighted
Treaty of Tlatelolco, which bans nuclear
weapons from Latin America. It was in
this hall last year that I pledged to do my
utmost to bring this treaty into effect and
to sign Protocol I of that treaty. And on
May 26 last year I signed it. Since then,
due to the encouragement of the coun-
tries that pioneered the treaty, the Soviet
Union has ratified Protocol II, and
Argentina has now agreed to ratify the
treaty.
All but one of the countries in the
hemisphere eligible to sign have now
signed the Treaty of Tlatelolco. This
precedent-setting treaty represents a dra-
matic advance for the cause of nuclear
nonproliferation, and we should not rest
until it is complete. I also support the
efforts of those who want to extend the
spirit of Tlatelolco to other areas of the
world and to conventional arms sales, as
well.
I believe that restraint in conventional
arms sales is also central to the cause of
peace. The United States has adopted a
policy, unilaterally, which seeks to reduce
the overall sale of weapons each year,
especially the most sophisticated, lethal,
and expensive weapons. We will not in-
troduce an advanced weapons system into
a region. And we are encouraging the
Soviet Union, the French, and others to
join with us in a multinational control
of the sale of conventional weapons
throughout the world.
As a major arms salesman, the United
States bears and accepts a heavy respon-
sibility for limiting this trade, but we
cannot succeed alone. Our efforts will
depend upon the active participation of
other arms sellers and, obviously, on the
participation of those who buy weapons.
I might point out that we have a bet-
ter record in this hemisphere than is gen-
erally recognized. Four other nations of
the world sell more weapons in Latin
America than does the United States.
And we need your help and the help of
other countries to continue this progress
toward another example of hemispheric
peace and the control of weapons of de-
struction that might be observed and
emulated by other regions of the world.
Discussions among supplier nations
and providing nations have already be-
gun. As we make our efforts, we draw
inspiration from the truly historic initia-
tive that Venezuela and the other signa-
tories of Ayacucho are making to remove
the causes of insecurity from their region
and thereby to reduce the pressures that
make nations buy weapons, because they
fear their neighbors.
As the Ayacucho nations prepare for
another meeting this week, I reaffirm my
own country's conviction that their work
is bringing us closer to lasting peace, and
I express my hope that their efforts can
be expanded to other weapons, both pur-
chasers and suppliers.
We can also reduce the pressure for
armaments and for regional violence by
ensuring that all nations respect the ter-
ritorial integrity of others. The intrusion
of foreign military forces into local dis-
putes can only undermine this cause. We
support improvements in the peacekeep-
ing and dispute-settling machinery of the
Organization of American States and
the United Nations.
I'd like to say just a word about hu-
man rights. The rights and dignity of
1143
