Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 11
aftermath of floods or tornadoes or heavy
snowstorms or extreme drought, the re-
ports back to me, following the alleviation
of suffering, have been very good.
Obviously, local business persons or
homeowners or Governors or mayors
who have been through that trying an ex-
perience always can accept more aid. But
I think the present disaster program is
adequate.
WATER AND SEWAGE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, the Chicago suburbs
have faced a rather severe and growing
water supply crisis. They recently have
been given allocations of Lake Michigan
water, but the cost of financing distribu-
tion systems seems almost irresolvable by
some of these communities. Are there any
Federal mechanisms that they could rely
on to finance these over a period of
decades?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, you're
familiar with the present local public
works programs, the EDA programs, the
CETA programs, which give help in con-
structive labor opportunities, and the ex-
isting water and sewage programs already
and historically in existence.
We have a supplementary budget re-
quest that has been before the Congress
for months, which has been held up by
the repeated votes on the B-1 bomber can-
cellation. The Senate has voted with me
on several occasions to terminate con-
struction of the B-1 after the first four are
completed, and the House is now facing
another vote on this issue.
I think there's a $42 billion program
in there for water and sewage programs.
And this would be an additional help.
We hope that that will be resolved very
quickly. Obviously, I want it resolved so
that we don't waste another half a billion
dollars or so building the fifth and sixth
B-1's which will never be useful to our
country.
But there's an historic commitment
among many Members of Congress to
support the B-1 program, but that's the
present holdup on additional help. But
I think whenever we have expanded allo-
cations of funds for education or for
transportation or for housing, to some
degree it relieves the local governments
of a financial burden that they can then
channel into special needs, obviously in-
cluding drinking water in the Chicago
area.
ALLOCATION OF FEDERAL PROGRAM FUNDS
Q. Some southern officials and south-
western officials are concerned that the
so-called Sunbelt/Snowbelt controversy is
going to mean fewer Federal dollars for
them in the coming years-the Commu-
nity Housing and Development Act of
1977, for an example. Are these fears
justified, and does your administration
plan to do anything to allay these fears?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think they are
justified. I have taken a different philoso-
phy from some of my predecessors in try-
ing to concentrate Federal program funds
in the most intensely needful areas. I think
in the past there has been a tendency—for
instance, in housing, just to use one ex-
ample, where money is allocated by the
Congress with the intention of helping the
most destitute regions-that the money is
channeled out into the more affluent sub-
urban areas because of the higher educa-
tional level, the better organizational
structure, the more effective political pre-
sentation to program administrators and,
quite often, also to a better understanding
of what the Federal programs offer.
So, we're trying to correct that I
wouldn't say circumvention, but that dis-
tortion of congressional intent.
307
