Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
titude and a confidence that augers suc-
cess for us in the future.
This Economic Report is one that de-
scribes very clearly the challenges for this
coming year, and it also describes how we
can indeed continue the good progress
that has been shown in our Nation dur-
ing the last 12 months.
I want to congratulate all the people
behind me for having helped to make it
possible to give this good report and who
will help me during the coming year to
carry out these programs and to reach the
goals that we've described here.
[At this point, the President signed the Eco-
nomic Report.]
Charlie, thank you very much. Would
you like to add anything?
Dr. Schultze. No, sir. I think you did
SCHULTZE.
so well on it that I'm afraid anything I
added would detract. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The next document
that I'd like to sign today is the tax mes-
sage,
which I outlined in very brief terms
last night.
This is a very far-reaching and com-
plicated tax proposal, but at the same
time, it greatly simplifies the tax laws of
our Nation. It makes them much more
fair and equitable, easier to understand,
and also gives a $25 billion reduction of
the tax burdens on the American people.
Included in the tax message is a de-
lineation of substantial tax reforms,
quite far-reaching; some have said the
most far-reaching set of tax proposals in
the history of our country. These, I hope,
will be acted upon by the Congress ex-
peditiously. Without the tax reforms, the
amount of the tax reduction would not
be advisable. So, tax reform and tax re-
duction are tied very intimately together.
I think that the Treasury Department
has done an outstanding job. And even at
this signing ceremony, I would like to say
that throughout this document, which is
highly professional in its quality, the hand
of Larry Woodworth can be seen on al-
most every page. He will be receiving an
award, posthumously, in a few moments.
But I think I would be remiss if I didn't
point out the great contribution that he
made, the profound professionalism that
he brought to his job, and the, I think, un-
equaled trust and confidence that Mem-
bers of both the House and the Senate, the
executive branch of Government, and the
public placed in this wonderful man. Un-
fortunately, he died this past fall, but his
memory lives with us. And I think the
superb quality of the tax message is at-
tributable in a great degree to his con-
tribution.
Secretary Blumenthal, I'd also like for
you to congratulate all your people for
the good work that has been done. I look
forward to a rapid passage of this legis-
lation. It will be effective, according to
our proposal, on the 1st of October 1978.
We anticipate fairly good economic
news for the United States the first two
quarters of this year. We have a good mo-
mentum going, fairly low inventories
which will encourage production to con-
tinue to go up. But without this tax re-
duction, the dampening effect of the pres-
ent trends will be felt the last half of this
year. And we want to be sure that this
progress that has been realized is unin-
terrupted and that tax reduction will be
the key to sustaining growth, reduction in
unemployment, and the containment and
control of inflation.
So, I'd like now to sign the tax measure
that will go to Congress. The tax measure
will go up when?
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL. Saturday.
[At this point, the President signed the tax
message.]
THE PRESIDENT. Saturday. In both
these instances, Charlie Schultze and
Mike Blumenthal would have given the
124
