Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 1
From the beginning, we have made an
annual payment to Panama to use their
land. You do not pay rent on your own
land. The Panama Canal Zone has always
been Panamanian territory. The U.S. Su-
preme Court and previous American
Presidents have repeatedly acknowledged
the sovereignty of Panama over the Canal
Zone.
We've never needed to own the Panama
Canal Zone, any more than we need to
own a 10-mile-wide strip of land all the
way through Canada from Alaska when
we build an international gas pipeline.
The new treaties give us what we do
need-not ownership of the canal, but the
right to use it and to protect it. As the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has
said, "The strategic value of the canal lies
in its use."
There's another question: Can our
naval ships, our warships, in time of need
or emergency, get through the canal im-
mediately instead of waiting in line?
The treaties answer that clearly by
guaranteeing that our ships will always
have expeditious transit through the
canal. To make sure that there could be
no possible disagreement about what these
words mean, the joint statement says that
expeditious transit, and I quote, "is in-
tended . . . to assure the transit of such
vessels through the Canal as quickly as
possible, without any impediment, with
expedited treatment, and in case of need
or emergency, to go to the head of the line
of vessels in order to transit the Canal
rapidly."
Will the treaties affect our standing in
Latin America? Will they create a so-
called power vacuum, which our enemies
might move in to fill? They will do just
the opposite. The treaties will increase
our Nation's influence in this hemisphere,
will help to reduce any mistrust and dis-
agreement, and they will remove a major
source of anti-American feeling.
The new agreement has already pro-
vided vivid proof to the people of this
hemisphere that a new era of friendship
and cooperation is beginning and that
what they regard as the last remnant of
alleged American colonialism is being re-
moved.
Last fall, I met individually with the
leaders of 18 countries in this hemisphere.
Between the United States and Latin
America there is already a new sense of
equality, a new sense of trust and mutual
respect that exists because of the Panama
Canal treaties. This opens up a fine op-
portunity for us in good will, trade, jobs,
exports, and political cooperation.
If the treaties should be rejected, this
would all be lost, and disappointment and
despair among our good neighbors and
traditional friends would be severe.
In the peaceful struggle against alien
ideologies like communism, these treaties
are a step in the right direction. Nothing
could strengthen our competitors and ad-
versaries in this hemisphere more than for
us to reject this agreement.
What if a new sea-level canal should be
needed in the future? This question has
been studied over and over throughout
this century, from before the time the
canal was built up through the last few
years. Every study has reached the same
conclusion that the best place to build
a sea-level canal is in Panama.
The treaties say that if we want to build
such a canal, we will build it in Panama,
and if any canal is to be built in Panama,
that we, the United States, will have the
right to participate in the project.
This is a clear benefit to us, for it en-
sures that, say, 10 or 20 years from now,
no unfriendly but wealthy power will be
able to purchase the right to build a sea-
level canal, to bypass the existing canal,
261
