Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
government, including from myself all
the way down to the average homeowner,
so that there can be a delineation of what
programs are available, what responsi-
bilities should be assumed by private citi-
zens or by business leaders or by local,
State, and Federal officials. And this, I
think, will help also.
But it's a very good discipline for us.
We've been working on it for literally
months. And although I don't know the
final details of it-if I did, I would really
rather wait until the end of this month,
but I don't yet. And I think you'll be
pleased with it. I hope you will.
SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS
Q. I'm Nancy Keil with the Daily
Oklahoman. In Oklahoma, as almost
everywhere, the sentiment about the so-
cial security program is getting pretty
strong, now that the effects have been
going in on paychecks. And I was won-
dering if you're doing any reassessment of
the program that you've gotten through,
now that there is some talk about re-
trenching on it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you
know that none of the increases in social
security payments that have taken place
this year were a result of recent legisla-
tion. This is a built-in increase schedule
that was passed years ago. The Congress,
I think very courageously, acted under
emergency circumstances in a mandatory
way. Had the Congress not increased the
contributions to the social security system,
it would have gone bankrupt. A couple of
the major funds would have been bank-
rupt by next year, 1979, so the Congress
had to take that action.
We have proposed to the Congress a
tax reform measure and a tax reduction
measure consisting of about $25 billion
in net savings to the American taxpayer,
and there'll be very few families in our
country who would have a net increase
this
year or next year, once the tax reduc-
tions go into effect. I advocated to the
Congress some reduction in contributions
from wage payments from the general
fund, in case the inflation rate is more
than 6 percent and other circumstances,
to pay for the nonretirement type bene-
fits-survivors benefits and death benefits.
The Congress did not do this, which
added about $30 billion in net additional
cost to come from payroll deductions. I
think this is something the Congress might
go back and reassess. But my guess is that
because of an extremely crowded calendar
this year, that no substantial modification
will take place in the present social secu-
rity law.
GOVERNOR REUBIN ASKEW OF FLORIDA
Q. Mr. President, Walker Lundy from
Tallahassee, Florida. Most people in
Florida think Reubin Askew is going to
come work for you after he finishes being
Governor. What kind of job would you
predict he might have?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Reubin Askew
could fill any job in Washington, includ-
ing the one I hold. [Laughter]
Q. He disagrees.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I feel that way.
Reubin has been very helpful to me al-
ready. We have added a dimension of
competence, I think, to the appointment
of diplomatic officials around the world
because of the committee that Reubin has
headed. Typically of him, he's done an
extremely conscientious job, and every ap-
pointment that I've made to any diplo-
matic post-ambassadors and so forth-
have been made after the screening proc-
ess that Reubin has supervised.
I have asked Reubin before, I might
say, to come to Washington and work with
me, before I was inaugurated, at a Cab-
inet level. And I think he knows that
my hope still stands that he might do this,
to fill a vacancy that he and I could agree
522
