Jan. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
He and I talked about religion, about
how deep his faith had grown since he
became very ill. We talked about sin and
how we know that everyone sins and we
fall short of the glory of God, but how God
forgives us.
Just a few days ago I was in India, and
I was visiting the tomb-or the memorial
to Mahatma Gandhi, where his body was
cremated. And I didn't think about Sen-
ator Humphrey-I have to admit it—
until I started to leave. And one of the
Indian leaders took me over to a wall, and
there on the wall there was a quote from
Gandhi and the title of it was, "The
Seven Sins." And when I saw that, I
thought about Senator Humphrey's dis-
cussion on sin, and I jotted it down.
According to Gandhi, the seven sins are
wealth without works, pleasure without
conscience, knowledge without character,
commerce without morality, science with-
out humanity, worship without sacrifice,
and politics without principle.
Well, Hubert Humphrey may have
sinned in the eyes of God, as we all do, but
according to those definitions of Gandhi's,
it was Hubert Humphrey without sin.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. at the
House of Hope Presbyterian Church. The serv-
ices were broadcast live on radio and television.
Panama Canal Treaties
Question-and-Answer Session by Telephone
With Participants in a Townhall Meeting on
the Treaties in Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
January 16, 1978
AUBREY LUCAS. Hello, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'm right here
waiting for your question, and I want to
congratulate you, first of all, at the Uni-
versity of Southern Mississippi, and also
the national Foreign Policy Association,
for letting this debate take place. If you
have a question for me, I'd be glad to
answer it.
I've just come back from the final
funeral ceremonies for Senator Hum-
phrey.
DR. LUCAS. Yes, we appreciate your
talking with us this evening.
You are probably aware that we are a
group of citizens gathered here on the
campus of the University of Southern
Mississippi in Hattiesburg. We've had a
very interesting debate, and we now have
some questions that we would like to put
to you. I'll ask the question. First I'll tell
you who formulated the question, and
then we will ask as many as you want.
Mr. David Farber asked this question.
Do you feel that the Panama Government
has the strength and the ability to control
and to operate the canal without being
intimidated by the powers of the world?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the answer is
yes. Not only is General Torrijos a very
popular leader in Panama, as has been
observed by almost half the Members of
the United States Senate who visited
there, but just to make sure that he con-
vinced us and the Panamanians and the
rest of the world that it was not a tran-
sient commitment, just depending upon
him and his personality or his present
overnment, on his own initiative he sub-
itted the question of ratifying the Pan-
ama Canal treaties to the people of Pan-
ama in a referendum. And as you know,
by approximately a two-thirds vote, the
people of Panama did approve the
treaties.
This is obviously legally binding on
Panama in accordance with international
law, and in addition, it demonstrated to
us that not just the government but the
people themselves confirmed the treaty
terms.
In addition to the treaty itself, Gen-
eral Torrijos described to the Panamanian
82
