Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SITING
Q. Mr. President, I'm Pat Wilkins from
KATU, here in Portland. I would also
like to ask a question about nuclear power,
but it goes beyond the storage of nuclear
waste.
I'm told by antinuclear groups here
that their national goal is to shut down
all nuclear plants. The tactic so far has
been the same tactic that was used to shut
down the Vietnam war-civil disobedi-
ence. Now, so far as our Trojan nuclear
plant is concerned, that has so far resulted
in about 200 arrests, and the consequent
legal costs threaten to break the back of
the tiny county trying the cases against
them.
Now, more than that, the issue of nu-
clear power seems to be enlarging into an
issue that could be seriously divisive for
the people of the country as a whole.
What I would like to know is, is this in
your thinking, and do you have a plan to
cope with such possibility?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our national
policy is to permit planning, siting, and
construction of nuclear powerplants. Ob-
viously, this is a decision to be made by
local and State officials. I think when I
ran for President in 1976, there were ref-
erenda on the ballots in 22 States of vary-
ing forms to restrict the production of nu-
clear power in those States. In almost
every instance, those referenda were voted
down by the people who were residents of
that area.
We have, I think, some very good exist-
ing regulations which protect the public
from the siting of nuclear powerplants in
places that are dangerous. And I believe
that the best solution to this problem is
for people to abide by the law and for the
local or State governments and people,
through referenda, to decide whether they
want nuclear powerplants there.
Obviously, the State legislatures could
pass a law prohibiting it. When I was
Governor of Georgia, I did approve the
construction of a nuclear powerplant in
Georgia. It was located in a place that
was acceptable to the environmentalists,
of which I considered myself to be one.
So, I think the best way to handle it is for
people to abide by the law, let local and
State officials work out the location of
powerplants, and if people object to their
being constructed at all, through the
legislative process or through referenda,
to prohibit their construction in a State.
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGNING FOR
DEMOCRATS
Q. Mr. President, concerning your trip
out here to the Western States and the up-
coming congressional campaign, some
Democrats have been quoted as saying
you may prove more a liability than an as-
set in the upcoming campaign. Assuming
you disagree with that, sir, how do you
respond, and how active will you be in
the congressional campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I had heard
that from any Democrat, which I haven't,
I would certainly not require them to at-
tend the political rallies and the events
in which I participate. I have no control
over Members of the Congress. But I've
never heard one say that. As a matter of
fact, hardly a day goes by that some Mem-
bers of the Congress-Governors don't
request that I go with them to campaign
in their States. I've been in two States so
far already on the trip; one in Colorado,
where there was a very strong and con-
structive relationship between me and the
congressional delegations, some of whom
were running for reelection, the Gover-
nors involved, and I think there's a very
warm reception for me also.
So, I feel very good about the trip; don't
think I'm a political handicap for Dem-
ocrats who are running for office. If any
847
