Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Improving Government
Regulations
Executive Order 12044. March 23, 1978
As President of the United States of
America, I direct each Executive Agency
to adopt procedures to improve existing
and future regulations.
SECTION 1. Policy. Regulations shall be
as simple and clear as possible. They shall
achieve legislative goals effectively and
efficiently. They shall not impose unneces-
sary burdens on the economy, on individ-
uals, on public or private organizations, or
on State and local governments.
To achieve these objectives, regulations
shall be developed through a process
which ensures that:
(a) the need for and purposes of the
regulation are clearly established;
(b) heads of agencies and policy offi-
cials exercise effective oversight;
(c) opportunity exists for early partic-
ipation and comment by other
Federal agencies, State and local
governments, businesses, organiza-
tions and individual members of
the public;
(d) meaningful alternatives are con-
sidered and analyzed before the
regulation is issued; and
(e) compliance costs, paperwork and
other burdens on the public are
minimized.
SEC. 2. Reform of the Process for De-
veloping Significant Regulations. Agen-
cies shall review and revise their proce-
dures for developing regulations to be
consistent with the policies of this Order
and in a manner that minimizes paper-
work.
Agencies' procedures should fit their
own needs but, at a minimum, these pro-
cedures shall include the following:
(a) Semiannual Agenda of Regula-
tions. To give the public adequate notice,
agencies shall publish at least semian-
nually an agenda of significant regula-
tions under development or review. On
the first Monday in October, each agency
shall publish in the FEDERAL REGISTER a
schedule showing the times during the
coming fiscal year when the agency's semi-
annual agenda will be published. Supple-
ments to the agenda may be published at
other times during the year if necessary,
but the semiannual agendas shall be as
complete as possible. The head of each
agency shall approve the agenda before it
is published. At a minimum, each pub-
lished agenda shall describe the regula-
tions being considered by the agency, the
need for and the legal basis for the action
being taken, and the status of regulations
previously listed on the agenda. Each item
on the agenda shall also include the name
and telephone number of a knowledge-
able agency official and, if possible, state
whether or not a regulatory analysis will
be required. The agenda shall also include
existing regulations scheduled to be re-
viewed in accordance with Section 4 of
this Order.
(b) Agency Head Oversight. Before an
agency proceeds to develop significant
new regulations, the agency head shall
have reviewed the issues to be considered,
the alternative approaches to be explored,
a tentative plan for obtaining public com-
ment, and target dates for completion of
steps in the development of the regula-
tion.
(c) Opportunity for Public Participa-
tion. Agencies shall give the public an
early and meaningful opportunity to par-
ticipate in the development of agency reg-
ulations. They shall consider a variety of
ways to provide this opportunity, includ-
ing (1) publishing an advance notice of
proposed rulemaking; (2) holding open
conferences or public hearings; (3) send-
ing notices of proposed regulations to pub-
558
