Feb. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Energy Emergency in Kentucky
Statement by the President.
February 18, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Kentucky,
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I hereby determine that a re-
gional energy emergency exists in the
State of Kentucky of such severity that a
temporary suspension of certain particu-
late and sulfur dioxide control regula-
tions under the Kentucky Air Quality Im-
plementation Plan may be necessary, and
that other means of responding to the
energy emergency may be inadequate.
This determination shall be effective for
not more than thirty (30) days, provided
that the State of Kentucky shall hold the
public hearing required by Section 110 (f)
of the Clean Air Act within 1 week of
this determination. If, during the period
of suspension, I find that a regional energy
emergency no longer exists in Kentucky, I
will direct that this determination of re-
gional energy emergency be rescinded and
that all suspension orders issued by the
Governor be terminated effective on the
day of that rescission. The Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency
retains full authority to disapprove tem-
porary suspensions of regulations in Ken-
tucky and to exercise his emergency
powers authority under Section 303 of
the Clean Air Act, when and if necessary.
I urge the Governor to act with due
care if he suspends air pollution regula-
tions under the authority provided by this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health. In
conducting hearings and making findings,
I urge the Governor to carefully consider
that suspensions which would allow a
facility to burn available fuel which could
not otherwise be utilized are generally
appropriate. On the other hand, suspen-
sions which permit facilities to turn off
pollution control devices should be used
sparingly and as a last resort, because
such suspensions will accomplish only
small energy savings while increasing risks
to public health.
fully necessary energy conservation meas-
I also urge the Governor to implement
fully necessary energy conservation meas-
ures so that the necessity for suspension of
pollution control regulations can be
minimized.
NOTE: The statement was released on February
19.
The Presidential determination of February
18 is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
March 24, 1978.
Amendment to the National
Forest Management Act of 1976
Statement on Signing S. 1360 Into Law.
February 20, 1978
I have today approved the enrolled
bill S. 1360 because it provides the Secre-
tary of Agriculture broad flexibility in de-
termining bidding methods to be used in
the sale of National Forest timber. The
bill directs the Secretary to take such
measures as he deems appropriate to:
-ensure open and fair competition,
-ensure that the Federal Government
receives not less than the appraised
value of such timber,
-consider the economic stability of
communities or such other objectives
as he deems necessary, and
-be consistent with the objectives of
other Federal statutes.
I endorse this direction.
The administration had opposed legis-
lation to amend the 1976 law in order to
permit enough time to evaluate the effects
of the revised regulation governing the
sale of National Forest timber that went
into effect on June 2, 1977.
I have approved the bill since it is clear
that the Secretary retains full discretion
to adopt bidding regulations for National
384
