Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
eralization of world trade. The two Presi-
dents agreed on the importance of reach-
ing an understanding on codes on export
subsidies, countervailing duties, safe-
guards and other trade policy mecha-
nisms. They also agreed on the need for
close consultations as the Geneva negotia-
tions approach the final stage.
The two Presidents agreed that the
Fifth Session of the Brazil-US Sub-Group
on Trade would take place in Brasília in
May. The principal purpose of the ses-
sion will be a bilateral examination of the
substantive issues existing in the current
phase of the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations.
The two Presidents strongly endorsed
the key role of international financial in-
stitutions such as the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank. In
this connection, they reviewed the various
measures taken in the past year and
agreed on the importance of an increased
level of funding of these institutions. The
two Presidents emphasized the impor-
tance of the contributions of the devel-
oped as well as of the developing coun-
tries to these institutions, and also noted
and welcomed the expanding efforts
among the developing countries them-
selves to strengthen mutual cooperation
in support of their development. They
noted with satisfaction the efforts made
to create a group for economic coopera-
tion in the Caribbean.
The two Presidents agreed on the im-
portance of stabilizing commodity prices
at levels fair to producers and consumers
and of the role which well-designed fund-
ing arrangements can play in relation to
commodity price stabilization agreements.
Both Presidents stated that they would
continue their support for the close work-
ing relationships that have been estab-
lished between the economic and finan-
cial authorities of the two countries.
The two Presidents discussed their
common interest in reducing dependence
on imported oil and reviewed their coun-
tries' programs in energy research and
development. They agreed to establish a
program of cooperation that would em-
phasize both nations' areas of advanced
expertise and ensure a two-way flow of
benefits: in coal mining, processing and
conversion, the production of alcohol
from sugar and other agricultural prod-
ucts, and industrial and transportation
energy conservation. This agreement will
be followed by meetings of experts to de-
sign specific cooperative programs includ-
ing the possibility of joint funding of such
programs.
The two Presidents also noted the
world agricultural situation and agreed
that the United States and Brazil, as the
world's leading exporters of agricultural
products, can make an important con-
tribution to easing world problems in this
field. They decided to establish, under the
Memorandum of Understanding of Feb-
ruary 21, 1976, a Sub-Group on Agricul-
ture. The Sub-Group will address prob-
lems of mutual interest and will hold its
initial meeting in the near future.
The two Presidents also noted that the
shared experiences which derive from pri-
vate sector, professional, cultural and edu-
cational exchanges constitute a valuable
base of lasting friendship and mutual un-
derstanding between the two countries.
The two Presidents specifically noted the
celebration last year of the Twentieth
Anniversary of the Bilateral Fulbright
Exchange Program which has involved
university scholars of a wide variety of
disciplines.
The two Presidents emphasized the
shared goals of their peoples in a new era
of peace and progress which will con-
tribute to a more just economic relation-
ship between North and South, promote
increased economic security for all coun-
639
