Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
ment and Operations), Department of
the Treasury".
The White House,
January 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:18 p.m., January 20, 1978]
The Cyprus Conflict
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Progress Toward a Negotiated Settlement.
January 20, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Public Law 94–104, this
report describes the progress that has been
made during the last sixty days towards a
negotiated settlement on Cyprus.
In my last such report to the Congress,
submitted on October 28, I described
with cautious optimism the efforts that
the Administration had been undertaking
to promote an early resumption of mean-
ingful intercommunal negotiations under
the auspices of the United Nations. Over
the past sixty days we have continued to
discuss the Cyprus issue extensively with
Turkish, Greek and Cypriot representa-
tives and with U.N. officials, our purpose
remaining that of persuading the parties
to resume intercommunal talks at the ear-
liest possible date and to be prepared to
come to the table with substantive, nego-
tiable proposals.
The Cyprus situation was discussed in
the bilateral meetings that Secretary
Vance held with Greek Foreign Minister
Papaligouras and Turkish Foreign Min-
ister Caglayangil in Brussels in early De-
cember. These conversations and contacts
with the two Cypriot communities have
fortified our belief that a Cyprus settle-
ment is earnestly desired by the parties
concerned, and that they accept the need
to resume negotiations to this end. For-
eign Ministers Papaligouras and Cagla-
yangil also met bilaterally in Brussels, and
in a joint communique stated that Greece
and Turkey would continue to encourage
a prompt resumption of negotiations as a
means of promoting a comprehensive
solution of the Cyprus problem.
We hope that the recent elections in
Greece will give new momentum to the
search for a Cyprus settlement. Prime
Minister Caramanlis said in his policy
statement to the Chamber of Deputies in
Athens on December 14 that his govern-
ment "will continue to support the inter-
communal talks under U.N. aegis and
will provide its full support to the people
of Cyprus..."
The Turkish Government has in recent
weeks given public evidence of its favor-
able attitude towards a settlement on
Cyprus. In a series of public interviews
late in November, Foreign Minister Cag-
layangil declared his support for an early
resumption of negotiations and indicated
Turkish flexibility with respect to both
territorial and constitutional aspects of
a package agreement. He also called for
economic cooperation between the two
Cypriot communities, and reaffirmed the
Turkish Government's intent to withdraw
its troops from the island once a settle-
ment is in effect. This Administration has
welcomed Foreign Minister Caglayangil's
statements as containing a number of posi-
tive elements, and we have also noted as
steps in the right direction the Turkish
Government's decisions to withdraw an
air force unit and 700 of its ground forces
from Cyprus. It is our hope and expecta-
tion, based on the Turkish Government's
announcement, that additional troop
withdrawals will be made. Steps such as
these might improve the general atmos-
phere so as to encourage the sense of trust
127
