Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Americans still experience discrimination Alloy Tool Steel Imports
when they attempt to purchase or rent
or finance a home or apartment for them-
selves or their family. Some of us-
whether through fear or prejudice or
superstition or through plain selfishness-
still attempt to limit the freedoms of other
Americans.
Unless we can overcome these limita-
tions, we will be unable to meet the chal-
Proclamation 4559. April 5, 1978
MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY QUANTITA-
TIVE LIMITATIONS ON THE IMPORTA-
TION INTO THE UNITED STATES OF
CERTAIN ARTICLES OF ALLOY TOOL
STEEL
of America
lenges we face as a people. The denial of By the President of the United States
equal housing opportunity is a serious im-
pediment to the cooperative, harmonious
sense of community and brotherhood we
need to meet our problems head on.
As we commemorate this tenth anni-
versary of the passage of the National
Fair Housing Law, I call upon those in
Federal, State and local government-
and all who are directly involved in the
housing industry and real estate profes-
sion-to intensify those efforts that pro-
mote fair housing. I hope this step will be
followed by like-minded actions on the
part of all Americans. The freedoms that
we believe in, enjoy and benefit from can-
not be secure unless they are shared by all
Americans. As long as equal opportunity
is denied to one person, the promise of
equality for all will be unfulfilled.
During this April commemoration of
Fair Housing Month, let us not just cele-
brate the passage of a benchmark law, but
let us determine to put fully into practice
the principles for which it stands. Let us
make ourselves aware of the ways in
which this law applies to us and to our
communities. And let us earnestly exam-
ine both personal and professional atti-
tudes that might be a barrier to equal
opportunity for others. Nothing could be
more important to the future of our
society.
JIMMY CARTER
A Proclamation
1. Proclamation No. 4445, of June 11,
1976, as modified by Proclamation No.
4477 of November 16, 1976, and Procla-
mation No. 4509 of June 15, 1977, im-
posed quantitative restrictions on the im-
portation of certain articles of specialty
steels. Section 203 (h) (4) of the Trade
Act of 1974 (the Trade Act) (19 U.S.C.
2253 (h) (4)) permits the President to re-
duce or terminate any such relief if, after
taking into account advice received from
the United States International Trade
Commission (USITC) and after seeking
advice from the Secretaries of Commerce
and Labor, the President determines that
the reduction or termination is in the
national interest.
2. I have sought and received advice
from the USITC and from the Secretaries
of Commerce and Labor concerning the
effects of reducing or terminating import
relief provided by Proclamation No. 4445,
as modified by Proclamation No. 4477
and Proclamation No. 4509, on steel pro-
vided for in item 923.26 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States (TSUS).
I have determined, after considering that
advice, that the exclusion of certain
steels provided for in item 923.26 of the
TSUS, known as chipper knife steel and
band saw steel, from such quantitative
restrictions is in the national interest.
682
