May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
election procedures. We share a common
concern for the integrity of the demo-
cratic process. I retain my hope that the
legally constituted electoral authorities in
the Dominican Republic will be able to
carry out their responsibilities without
interference and that the outcome of the
elections will be respected by all. We will
be examining the report of the three
prominent observers invited to witness
the election process. The degree of our
country's support for the Dominican Gov-
ernment will depend upon the integrity of
the election process.
NOTE: The Dominican Republic National Po-
lice stopped the counting of ballots shortly after
the presidential election, which was held on
May 16. After the count had resumed, Antonio
Guzmán was declared the winner over incum-
bent President Joaquín Balaguer.
United States Development
Assistance Programs
Announcement of Administrative
Reorganization of the Programs.
May 19, 1978
The White House announced today an
administrative reorganization of the Gov-
ernment's development assistance pro-
grams. As a first step in implementing the
plan, the President met Thursday,
May 18, 1978, with senior representatives
of the departments and agencies who will
assist Gov. John Gilligan, Administrator
of the Agency for International Develop-
ment, in coordinating all foreign aid pro-
grams.
The President has designated Governor
Gilligan to serve as his and the Secretary
of State's principal adviser on develop-
ment programs and policy, and to be the
executive branch's principal spokesman to
the Congress on development assistance.
The Administrator will have a voice in all
economic decisions having a major im-
pact on developing countries.
The President directed Governor Gil-
ligan to prepare annually an aid policy
statement. The statement will show how
different types of U.S. aid to be sought
from the Congress will be related to each
other. It will be used, in conjunction with
non-aid policies affecting the less devel-
oped countries, to advance U.S. purposes
and policies. This statement will be re-
viewed at the Cabinet level by the Policy
Review Committee of the NSC and sub-
mitted to the President for approval.
Once approved by the President, this
statement will constitute general guidance
for all departments and agencies con-
cerned in preparing their budget requests
and managing their programs. It will also
provide the basis for a comprehensive and
coordinated approach to the Congress
concerning all requests for funding of re-
source transfers to developing countries.
An expanded Development Coordinat-
ing Committee has been formed to assist
the Administrator in carrying out these
functions and in coordinating U.S. de-
velopment assistance programs and poli-
cies. This deputy or assistant secretary-
level Committee will have staff and sub-
committees, as necessary, to discharge its
functions. It will deal with issues of bi-
lateral aid, multilateral aid, PL-480, aid
for certain international organizations,
and legislative strategy and tactics.
The President spoke at the first meet-
ing of this Committee on May 18 about
the need for close interagency coordina-
tion. He stressed his confidence in Gov-
ernor Gilligan and his hope that by
greatly strengthening the interagency
coordination mechanism, the effectiveness
of development policy and assistance can
be greatly improved. These arrangements
reflect some of the suggestions for en-
hancing aid coordination and effective-
ness made in the bill introduced for this
purpose by the late Senator Humphrey.
932
