Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 21
Nation. She was born in Kentucky, edu-
cated there and in Colorado. She taught
in West Virginia, as well as Colorado, and
because of her excellence and her ability
to portray what America is, she also went
during the summers in Sierra Leone and
to Ethiopia to carry her superb teaching
capability to those people there.
She recognizes, as demonstrated by her
success in the classroom, some funda-
mental principles of education. As a sixth-
grade teacher in Colorado she has espe-
cially benefited from the fact that chil-
dren are different; teaching instruction
has to be different for each child. And
she's brought a vivid awareness of life to
the classroom environment.
She has encouraged her students, for
instance, to take an old dilapidated, un-
painted building and to turn it into a
place of beauty. She's encouraged her
students to dig a pond and to study
aquatic life there and to let them have a
real sense of the out-of-doors.
She's had a chance to plant more than
1,200 trees and to transfer to the school
class area an old log cabin and to have the
students help to erect it. It's now going to
be used as a museum where the children
can take in their discoveries of God's nat-
ural beauty and present it in an effective
way as an additional teaching character-
istic for the classroom experience.
I think what she's done has introduced
her students in a practical human way to
God's world, to one another, to herself, as
their teacher, to the out-of-doors, and in
the process, she's involved in an exem-
plary fashion the citizens of the commu-
nity of Montrose and also the parents as
part of the learning process of their
children.
So, you can see that in a special fashion
she has exemplified the finest aspect of
teaching in our great Nation.
achievement, creative
achievement, creative excellence, and
dedicated service to the youth and schools
of the Nation, exemplifying the finest
ideals and the highest standards of the
teaching profession as 1978 National
Teacher of the Year, selected by a com-
mittee of distinguished national educators
in the 27th Annual National Teacher of
the Year Awards Program and presented
this 21st day of March, 1978, by the spon-
sors, Encyclopaedia Britannica Compa-
nies, Ladies Home Journal, and the
Council of State School Officers."
I am very proud to present this award
as the National Teacher of the Year to
Elaine Barbour on behalf of the people of
our country.
And also I'd like to present an apple
for the teacher. This crystal apple has also
become part of the ceremony: "The 1978
Teacher of the Year for creative excel-
lence and dedicated service, presented to
Elaine Barbour at the White House."
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
Visit of Prime Minister Begin
of Israel
White House Statement on the First Meeting.
March 21, 1978
President Carter and Prime Minister
Begin met with their advisers this morn-
ing in the Cabinet Room for 2 hours.
The President was accompanied by the
Vice President; Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance; the President's Assistant for Na-
tional Security Affairs, Zbigniew Brze-
zinski; State Department Director for In-
telligence and Research Harold Saun-
ders; Assistant Secretary of State for Near
Eastern and South Asian Affairs Alfred
I'd like to read this presentation before Atherton; United States Ambassador to
I give it to her.
Israel Samuel Lewis; and NSC staff
"Elaine Barbour is recognized for member William Quandt.
547
