Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Department of Justice
Nomination of Gilbert G. Pompa To Be
Director of the Community Relations
Service. April 26, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Gilbert G. Pompa, of
San Antonio, Tex., to be Director of the
Community Relations Service at the Jus-
tice Department. He would replace Ben-
jamin F. Holman, who has resigned.
Pompa was born October 1, 1931, in
Devine, Tex. He received an LL.B. from
St. Mary's University in 1958. He served
in the U.S. Air Force from 1950 to 1952.
Pompa practiced law in San Antonio
from 1958 to 1960. From 1960 to 1963,
he was assistant city attorney for San An-
tonio, and from 1963 to 1967, he was as-
sistant district attorney of Bexar County,
Tex.
Pompa has been with the Community
Relations Service since 1967, serving as a
field representative, then assistant direc-
tor for field services, then equal opportu-
nity officer. He has been Deputy Director
since 1976 and Acting Director since
1977.
Public Disclosure of Lobbying
Legislation
Statement on House of Representatives
Approval of H.R. 8494. April 26, 1978
I want to congratulate the House of
Representatives for its passage today of
H.R. 8494, the proposed Public Disclosure
of Lobbying Act of 1978. I am especially
grateful to Congressman George Daniel-
son for his leadership in helping to for-
mulate the bill and guide it through the
House.
Lobbying is a constitutionally protected
activity that plays an important role in
the governmental process. It is precisely
because of the importance of lobbying
in the conduct of the public's business
that it should be more open to the pub-
lic's scrutiny. This bill will enable the
American people to understand and see
more clearly how the legislative process
is being affected by organizations that
engage in significant lobbying activities.
I urge the Senate to act quickly on a
lobby registration and disclosure bill so
that we can have an effective new law by
the end of this season.
NOTE: The statement was released on April 27.
Institutes Honoring Senators
Hubert H. Humphrey and
Everett M. Dirksen
Remarks on Signing S. 2452 Into Law.
April 27, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Humphrey and
Senator Wendell Anderson and the Vice
President and I assembled here for a very
significant signing ceremony.
This is a bill that has been passed by
the Congress authorizing the Commis-
sioner of Education to make grants to
two institutes established, one in Min-
nesota, in honor of Senator Hubert Hum-
phrey, the other one in Illinois, in honor
of Republican leader Senator Everett
Dirksen.
These institutes are designed to further
the study of politics in its finest form, to
improve the quality of the Congress, par-
ticularly emphasized at the Dirksen In-
stitute. And it sets reasonable limits on
how much American taxpayers' money
can be devoted to these institutes, which
I think is a very worthy expenditure in
these instances.
Because of the close association, both
in the Senate and in the home State, be-
784
