May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dedicated to equality of opportunity?"
And that sensitivity exists in Mike Bakalis.
Government is designed to serve those
who need help most and the humaneness
of government is not incompatible with a
tough, competent, businesslike, manage-
rial approach. You can't deliver services
adequately from a limited supply of tax
income if the government is disorganized
or wasteful and if you don't have the
judgment and the sound practical experi-
ence behind you to make priority judg-
ments and to work harmoniously with
your fellow public servants.
Well, Mike has had that kind of back-
ground and experience. He's done a
superb job in his present position. No one
doubts it. Everybody agrees. There are
some Republicans who think he ought to
stay there because he has done such a
good job. But I think that combination of
understanding the need and the thrust
and the legitimate function of govern-
ment on the one hand, and tough, com-
petent business management on the
other, is rare. But he happens to have it.
And, finally, I would like to have a man
that has a background that kind of gives
him a picture, even from his infant years,
of what this country is, the diversity of
people. Now this is not a melting pot, as I
said many times during my campaign, it's
more like a mosaic. You've got different
people that retain their identity and their
heritage and their pride, but still fit in
together to create the strength of our
country. And as Mike himself just men-
tioned, his parents came here from a for-
eign country, from Greece, a man who
had no assured job-Mike's father-he
drove a truck, couldn't speak English well,
of course, later saved up money because
of hard work and care, and the love and
support of his family, bought a little short-
order restaurant.
But he had two boys that he cared for
and loved-George became a lawyer, a
very expensive process, and Mike got his
doctorate in education.
And it was the kind of family struc-
ture that I think is needed in our coun-
try-a solid, unshakable, family inter-
relationship that is the foundation of
what America is. Because the boys didn't
sit back and say, "Daddy, you put me
through college.” They joined in and did
their share and then some, and it was a
mutuality about that thrust and purpose
in those young men's lives that's part of
the American dream.
And there's no doubt in my mind that
Mike can understand the special prob-
lems of Spanish American people who
still can't speak English very well, or the
very poor, or the black, or the very young
or the very old, or the European families
who have come here recently, who make
up our country. He can understand that,
not because he goes and studies it or asks
some college professor to let him read a
book, but because he's part of it.
So, you've got the kind of leader here
who has those qualifications, and I would
say the last and most important thing as
far as a political campaign is concerned
is not letting down one's supporters.
I would hate to invest $500 in the cam-
paign of somebody if I didn't think they
were going to do more than their share.
Well, you don't have to worry about that.
You've seen Mike in the past, in his two
previous campaigns against almost hope-
less odds, win.
And that ability to plan a campaign
against hopeless odds is a very good pre-
view of the way someone serves as a
school superintendent or a comptroller or
a Governor, because if he can put to-
gether that, it shows that you can work
with other people in the same common
goal. But I think the campaign being
successful also shows that he can relate
to the person on the street when he
reaches out a hand and says, "I'm Mike
998
