Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
regulations are usually written by experts
for experts. Your clear mandate will be to
translate regulations into language a small
businessman-who must be his own ex-
pert-can understand.
Second, this order opens up the regula-
tory process to broad public involvement.
It requires that departments and agen-
cies issue regular "early warning" an-
nouncements of any significant new regu-
latory action that is being considered. This
announcement must contain the name
and telephone number of a specific official
responsible in this area.
Third, it requires that you be person-
ally and clearly accountable for the regu-
lations that are being considered. You
must sign off on items on the agency
agenda; be satisfied that feasible alterna-
tives have been carefully examined; and
assure that regulatory burdens are re-
duced. It requires that the public be given
the name, address, and telephone number
of a knowledgeable agency official who
can answer questions about new regula-
tions.
Fourth, it directs that whenever a regu-
lation may have a major economic conse-
quence, the agency must conduct an early
and rigorous examination of all alterna-
tives of achieving the stated objective.
This requirement will ensure that Federal
regulations are cost-effective and impose
minimum economic burdens on the pri-
vate sector.
Finally, and very importantly, it re-
quires every agency to undertake a sys-
tematic, "sunset" review of existing reg-
ulations. The agencies are to eliminate
those which are unnecessary and reform
others to reduce the burden to the mini-
mum.
Many of these reforms are already un-
derway at EPA, as well as HEW, DOT,
Labor, and the Department of Energy.
I am confident that efforts of executive
agencies to carry out this order will be
matched by similar efforts on the part of
the independent regulatory agencies.
Many commissions are already well on
their way in this regard. The Federal
Communications Commission, for exam-
ple, has just completed their rewrite of
regulations that affect millions of CB
radio owners. Here's a line from the old
version:
"Except as provided in paragraph B of
this section, applications, amendments
thereto, and related statements of fact
required by the Commission shall be
personally signed by the applicant, if
the applicant is an individual."
Instead of that gobbledygook, the new
version says: "If you are an individual,
you must sign your own application per-
sonally.”
This is an example of the kind of change
the Executive order is meant to encourage.
Improving Government
Regulations
Memorandum From the President.
March 23, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
In order to assure full State and local
participation in the development and
promulgation of Federal regulations with
significant intergovernmental impact, I
want the Departments to develop proce-
dures in the following manner:
• I have asked the national organiza-
tions representing general purpose State
and local governments (including the Na-
tional Governors' Association, the Na-
tional Conference of State Legislatures,
the Council of State Governments, the
National League of Cities, the United
States Conference of Mayors, the Na-
tional Association of Counties, and the
International City Management Associa-
562
