Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 30
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby call upon the American people
to observe June 14, 1978 as Flag Day and
the week begining June 11, 1978 as Na-
tional Flag Week. I direct the appropriate
officials of the Government to display the
flag on all Government buildings during
that week and ask the American people to
display our flag at their homes and other
suitable places for the same period.
I also ask each American to observe the
period from Flag Day through Independ-
ence Day as a period to honor America.
To that end, I ask all Americans to par-
ticipate in local activities that reflect an
understanding and appreciation of Amer-
ica and its institutions.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this thirtieth day of May,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:04 p.m., May 30, 1978]
Meeting With Chancellor
Helmut Schmidt of the Federal
Republic of Germany
White House Statement. May 30, 1978
President Carter and Chancellor Hel-
mut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of
Germany held a 1-hour working break-
fast at the White House this morning to
review major international issues. Chan-
cellor Schmidt is in Washington as head
of his country's delegation to the summit
meeting of the North Atlantic Alliance.
The President and the Chancellor
reaffirmed their firm commitment to
strengthening the deterrent ability of the
North Atlantic Alliance on the basis of
which they will continue efforts to im-
prove East-West cooperation. The Chan-
cellor gave the President an outline of his
talks with Soviet President Brezhnev.
They reviewed East-West relations gen-
erally and agreed to continue close con-
sultations in this area.
President Carter outlined progress
made to date on the negotiation of a
SALT II agreement, emphasizing that
the security interests of our NATO Allies
will be covered in any agreement reached.
The President and the Chancellor ex-
pressed the hope that the new Western
initiative in the MBFR negotiations
tabled last April will help to move those
talks forward.
President Carter and Chancellor
Schmidt also reviewed planning for the
Economic Summit which will take place
in Bonn on July 16 and 17. They agreed
that the major world economic leaders
must seek a coordinated, consistent ap-
proach to the problems of higher energy
costs, high unemployment, inflation, de-
pressed investment and payments imbal-
ances. They agreed to strive for closer
short- and medium-term coordination of
economic policy and focus in depth on the
long-term structural problems facing the
world economy.
The President and the Chancellor wel-
comed this opportunity to exchange ideas
personally on important issues and will
continue their efforts, together with other
countries, to synchronize approaches to
common problems. Both looked forward
especially to the President's forthcoming
state visit to the Federal Republic and
Berlin in mid-July, prior to the Economic
Summit.
1015
