Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in the United States or directed against
Americans will employ the least intrusive
means possible and that the use, dissemi-
nation, and storage of such information
is limited to that necessary to achieve
lawful governmental purposes.
4. As an added protection against
abuses and to help ensure effective per-
formance, the intelligence oversight proc-
ess is strengthened.
-The Intelligence Oversight Board is
retained, and its responsibilities for review
of foreign intelligence activities that may
be illegal or improper is extended to the
counterintelligence area, and it is given
new authority to conduct investigations.
-The DCI and senior officers of the
Intelligence Community are instructed to
report to the congressional intelligence
committees in a complete and prompt
manner.
I believe that this Executive order rep-
resents an important step forward in as-
suring the American people that their
intelligence agencies will be working
effectively for them and not infringing on
their legal rights. The next step will be
to establish these authorities and restric-
tions in legislation binding on this and
future administrations.
President's Committee on
International North Pacific
Fisheries Commission
Appointment of Dennis A. Grotting as
Commissioner of the United States Section.
January 24, 1978
The President today announced the re-
appointment of Dennis A. Grotting as
Commissioner of the United States Sec-
tion of the International North Pacific
Fisheries Commission.
Grotting, 36, has served on the Com-
mission since 1975. He is secretary-man-
ager of the Fisherman's Marketing Asso-
ciation in Eureka, Calif.
Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory
Committee
Message to the Congress Transmitting
a Report. January 24, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5347 (e) of
title 5 of the United States Code, I hereby
transmit to you the 1976 Annual Report
of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory
Committee.
While not specifically addressed in the
attached report, I want to express my con-
cern that little progress appears to have
been made in reforming the prevailing
Employment of the Handicapped rate system for adjusting wages of Federal
Appointment of Charles H. Pillard as Vice
Chairman. January 24, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Charles H. Pillard as Vice
Chairman of the President's Committee
on Employment of the Handicapped.
Pillard, 59, has been international
president of the International Brother-
hood of Electrical Workers since 1968.
From 1952 to 1968, he was business man-
ager of Local Union 41.
blue collar employees. In my February 22,
1977 message to the Congress, I strongly
recommended early enactment of legisla-
tion to correct those provisions of current
law that cause significant departures from
the local prevailing rate principle, and
result in an unfair competitive advantage
for the Federal Government and unjusti-
fiable payroll costs. A draft bill which
would achieve these objectives was sub-
mitted to the Congress early last year. I
am convinced that this bill will correct the
216
