Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The real cement of our relations goes
beyond politics, economics, and technol-
ogy. It is in the values and emotional in-
volvement of our people. Both for Ameri-
cans and India, man's communion with
God, tolerance and compassion towards
his fellow beings are respected as the
highest virtues.
The present revulsion from the ten-
sions of modern life and its unending
search for material comforts has, we no-
tice, led to a new burst of interest in our
spiritual and philosophic heritage.
On another plane, many volunteers-
like your esteemed mother-have built
bonds of kinship between individuals and
families across the oceans. This deep com-
mitment to things of the mind and spirit,
the sustained exchanges in the field of art,
education, and culture, along with per-
sonal relationships, make for strong but
invisible bonds which are only possible
between open societies.
Mr. President, the rich texture of our
relationship should make it immune to
misunderstanding and distrust in the fu-
ture. The quality of our friendship is such
that no nation which cherishes interna-
tional peace and cooperation need fear its
potential and suspect it of malevolence.
With shared faith and complementary
objectives, Mr. President, the word could
go forth from this ancient capital that the
friendship between our two large democ-
racies, one rich and powerful and the
other underdeveloped but resurgent, is to
serve the hopes and aspirations of all man-
kind and that our objectives are not only
relevant now but will remain valid
through time.
Our vision must be of a world which
would safeguard nations in their diversity
and where man may achieve social jus-
tice, dignity, and fulfillment.
It is with a sense of historic significance
on this occasion that I ask you, ladies and
gentlemen, to raise your glasses to the
health of the President of the United
States of America and Mrs. Carter, to the
high ideas and enlightened interests
which bind India and the United States.
To your
health.
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Reddy
and Prime Minister Desai, great leaders
of the government of India, beautiful
women and friends who have made our
visit here so enjoyable and productive:
This afternoon in your Parliament I
spelled out in quite a lengthy speech the
details about relationships which we have
as a mutual interest. So, this evening in
my brief remarks I would like to com-
ment in a more personal way.
Today was fulfilled in my life a long
ambition to visit the memorial to Ma-
hatma Gandhi. As I stood there I thought
about India and about my own country
and about the personal feelings that all
of us share as we come to an ancient land
which in recent years, with the birth of
your hopes and dreams for freedom, has
been an inspiration to us all.
This morning your Prime Minister gave
me a book that he had written analyzing
the Bhagavad-Gita. One passage from
that great book stood out in my mind. I
can't quote it exactly, Mr. Prime Min-
ister, and I can't interpret it well, but it
said when a country is flooded, the reser-
voirs become superfluous. Sri Krishna
went on to explain what he meant in this
message, that when one's heart is filled
completely with an awareness of our love
for God, the other considerations in life
are incidental. And one need not worry
about the outcome of an action, but
should worry on a momentary basis about
the purposes and the attitudes and one's
relation to the eternal.
There is no way to describe in overall
terms my feeling about India. So I will
have to describe my thoughts in specifics.
14
