Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
here in our country attending a summit
meeting in May, where we will address
our long-term defense program which will
expand and integrate more closely allied
defense plans.
For many years, the United States has
been a major world power. Our long-
standing concerns encompass our own se-
curity interests and those of our allies and
friends far beyond our own shores and
Europe.
We have important historical respon-
sibilities to enhance peace in East Asia,
in the Middle East, in the Persian Gulf,
and throughout our own hemisphere. Our
preference in all these areas is to turn first
to international agreements that reduce
the overall level of arms and minimize
the threat of conflict. But we have the
will, and we will also maintain the capac-
ity, to honor our commitments and to pro-
tect our interests in those critical areas.
In the Pacific, our effective security is
enhanced by mutual defense treaties with
our allies and by our friendship and co-
operation with other Pacific nations.
Japan and South Korea, closely linked
with the United States, are located geo-
graphically where vital interests of great
powers converge. It is imperative that
Northeast Asia remain stable. We will
maintain and even enhance our military
strength in this area, improving our air
strength and reducing our ground forces,
as the South Korean army continues to
modernize and to increase its own ca-
pabilities.
In the Middle East and the region of
the Indian Ocean, we seek permanent
peace and stability. The economic health
and well-being of the United States, West-
ern Europe, Japan, depend upon contin-
ued access to the oil from the Persian Gulf
area.
In all these situations, the primary re-
sponsibility for preserving peace and mil-
itary stability rests with the countries of
the region. But we shall continue to work
with our friends and allies to strengthen
their ability to prevent threats to their in-
terests and to ours.
In addition, however, we will maintain
forces of our own which can be called
upon, if necessary, to support mutual de-
fense efforts. The Secretary of Defense, at
my direction, is improving and will main-
tain quickly deployable forces—air, land,
and sea-to defend our interests through-
out the world.
Arms control agreements are a major
goal as instruments of our national secu-
rity, but this will be possible only if we
maintain appropriate military force
levels. Reaching balanced, verifiable
agreements with our adversaries can limit
the cost of security and reduce the risk of
war. But even then, we must-and we
will-proceed efficiently with whatever
arms programs our own security requires.
When I leave this auditorium, I shall
be going to visit with the crew aboard one
of our most modern nuclear-powered air-
craft carriers in the Atlantic Ocean. The
men and women of our Armed Forces re-
main committed, as able professionals
and as patriotic Americans, to our com-
mon defense. They must stand constantly
ready to fight, in the hope that through
strength, combat will be prevented. We
as Americans will always support them in
their courageous vigil.
This has been a serious and a sober
talk, but there is no cause for pessimism.
We face a challenge, and we will do what-
ever is necessary to meet it. We will pre-
serve and protect our country and con-
tinue to promote and to maintain peace
around the world. This means that we
534
