Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mains depressed despite the substantial
the substantial
increase in business profits.
The economic difficulties that we face
in the United States also confront most
nations around the world. Our mutual
problems are the legacy of the trauma
suffered by the world economy during the
early 1970s. The massive escalation of oil
prices since 1973 continues to impose
great burdens on the world economy. Oil
imports drain away the purchasing power
of oil-importing nations and upset the in-
ternational balance of payments.
Many foreign governments have been
reluctant to adopt policies needed to stim-
ulate economic growth because they are
concerned that inflationary pressures
might be renewed or that their balance
of international payments might be wors-
ened. Abroad, as well as at home, con-
cerns about the future have deterred busi-
ness investment in new plants and equip-
ment. As a consequence, economic growth
has stagnated in many countries, and the
rise in the capital stock needed to increase
productivity, raise standards of living, and
avoid future inflationary bottlenecks is not
occurring.
The problems we face today are more
complex and difficult than those of an
earlier era. We cannot concentrate just on
inflation, or just on unemployment, or just
on deficits in the Federal budget or our
international payments. Nor can we act
in isolation from other countries. We must
deal with all of these problems simul-
taneously and on a worldwide basis.
Our problems cannot be solved over-
night. But we can resolve them if we fix
our sights on long-term objectives, adopt
programs that will help us to realize our
goals, and remain prepared to make ad-
justments as basic circumstances change.
In making my decisions on tax and
budget policies for fiscal 1979, and in
planning more generally for our Nation's
future, I have been guided by four objec-
tives for our economy that I believe our
Nation should pursue.
We must continue to move steadily
toward a high-employment economy in
which the benefits of prosperity are widely
shared. Progress in reducing unemploy-
ment of our labor and capital resources
must be sure and sustainable. Over the
next several years I believe we can in-
crease our real output by 42 to 5 per-
cent per year, and reduce unemployment
by about one-half of a percentage point
each year. An especially high priority is
to increase job opportunities for the dis-
advantaged, particularly for black and
Spanish-speaking Americans, and to deal
more effectively with local pockets of un-
employment, such as those in urban areas.
We should eliminate unfair advantages
through reform of the tax system, and re-
structure our welfare system to assure
that the fruits of economic growth are
enjoyed by all Americans.
We should rely principally on the pri-
vate sector to lead the economic expan-
sion and to create new jobs for a grow-
ing labor force. Five out of every six new
jobs in the economy are created in the
private sector. There are good reasons
for continuing to rely mainly on the pri-
vate sector in the years ahead. By empha-
sizing the creation of private jobs, our
resources will be used more efficiently,
our future capacity to produce will ex-
pand more rapidly, and the standard of
living for our people will rise faster. Re-
liance upon the private sector does not
mean neglecting the tasks that govern-
ment can and must perform. The Federal
Government can be an active partner to
help achieve progress toward meeting
national needs and, through competent
management, still absorb a declining por-
tion of the Nation's output.
130
