Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The White House was built while he was
President. And I walk through the White
House sometimes, you know, alone, and
see the portraits there of Thomas Jeffer-
son and his little writing case and go in
the Lincoln Bedroom where the Emanci-
pation Proclamation was signed and think
about the difficult times they had and the
time of Harry Truman and Franklin
Roosevelt when we fought the Second
World War and Woodrow Wilson at the
conclusion of the First World War, and
I think about the strength of our country.
So, I think the most gratifying thing is
feeling that the American people have
trusted me, that I'm part of this tremen-
dous Nation and that I share a heritage
and a history and a future in the greatest
country on Earth. It's a very reassuring
thing.
I think, obviously, the most difficult
thing is to recognize the limitations of a
President's power. There are so many
things that I would like to do instantly
that take a long time. But I think in gen-
eral that frustration that I feel is a good
thing.
The balance of power between Presi-
dents and Governors, between the Presi-
dent and the Congress, between the Con-
gress and the courts, although it's frustrat-
ing, it also is good. There are some diffi-
cult decisions that I have to make—SALT
treaties with the Soviet Union, I would
like to be able to eliminate nuclear weap-
ons from the face of the Earth and pre-
vent other countries [applause]—and I
would like to prevent other countries from
developing explosives that don't have
them now. And I would like to see the
Middle East peace negotiated.
And you know, I would like to see a
good health insurance program and wel-
fare reform and the State-and the Fed-
eral Government, rather, reorganized, the
tax system reformed. I have to negotiate
and work with the Congress.
And sometimes I'm impatient, but then
the more I've gotten to know the indi-
vidual Members of the Congress, the more
I see that they have a special experience
and an expert knowledge that I don't
have. And they bring up questions that
I haven't thought about.
So, I have to be very cautious about
how I move forward. In general, though,
I would say that I have enjoyed being
President.
to
Our family is close together now. We
enjoy the house where we live in. It's
convenient my working place.
[Laughter] The salary is very good, and the
perquisites are nice. And I think the re-
ception of the American people has been
good so far.
We've addressed some very controver-
sial questions, and I feel that I've got
adequate support from the American
people. So, I think the most enjoyable
thing is knowing that I'm part of a
great nation.
The most difficult thing is the limita-
tions that have built in to a President that
makes his actions checked and balanced
with others, both internationally and
domestically. But I think it's one of the
greatest jobs I've ever had.
Q. My second graders thank you very
much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Tell your second
graders to come and see me and Amy.
[Laughter]
Q. They would love to. We've talked
a lot about Amy, and they really would
like to meet her.
THE PRESIDENT. You bring them to
Washington, and I'll be glad to see them.
[Laughter]
358
