Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
bringing in representatives-before the
final report is made-of all viewpoints to
help find solutions to existing and poten-
tial problems.
The five members, of course, who vote
will have available to them advice and
counsel from many people throughout
the country. But before we have a final
report to go to the Nation, to the Con-
gress and to me and future Presidents,
I want to make sure at the White House
that we have a large group of people
come together to say, this is what we
can do to strengthen the coal industry in
the years ahead.
I come from flat country, as you might
imagine from the name of my hometown,
which is Plains. Our people in south
Georgia have a lot in common with the
people of West Virginia. But the land is
about as different as it could possibly be.
I've heard it said that if you ironed out
West Virginia, it would be the biggest
State in the Nation. I'm not sure about
that, but I do know that around Plains
our livelihood has depended upon the
top 4 or 5 inches of land. The topsoil
either made us or broke us.
Here in West Virginia it's long been
known that what was under your land
was the key to your prosperity and some-
times the cause of your problems. We
abused the land in the Deep South for a
long time, overworking it, not putting
back into it what we took out; we let it
wash away and blow away.
For a long time the hills of West Vir-
ginia were abused also. Your creeks and
your rivers were polluted, your land was
scarred and left raw, and too many of
those who dug the wealth from under the
ground were left poor and sick after their
labors were completed.
In recent years we've learned how to
stop this devastation, learned how to re-
store the hills as we have extracted their
wealth, learned how to make life safer
and more prosperous for those who bring
it out of the earth.
The land and the people of Appalachia
have sacrificed much to make your great
past contributions to to our national devel-
opment. And I'm determined that in the
future this land and its people will share
in the benefits of meeting our Nation's
needs.
When I announced the national en-
ergy plan, I promised that increasing pro-
duction of West Virginia coal would not
come at the expense of the environment,
the health, or the safety of the people of
West Virginia.
With the help of Jennings Randolph
and Senator Gary Hart from Colorado,
we are developing proposals for a 5-year
program of impact assistance to help off-
set some of the social and economic costs
of increasing coal production.
Nationwide this program would pro-
vide $675 million in grants and will put
up to $75 million to guarantee $1½ bil-
lion in loans.
dolph, Senator Byrd, Congressman Stag-
Governor Rockefeller, Senator Ran-
gers, and others have been of immeasur-
able assistance in developing this pro-
gram. West Virginia has indeed been
fortunate to have leaders like these-
John Slack and others represent your
interest.
In mountainous country like yours
there are extra costs and extra difficulties
in building houses, in building roads,
waterlines, sewers. These problems are
not new, but they make coping with a
rapid influx of people-when you develop
new coal field, for instance--even
harder and more expensive than growth
would be in a flat country.
In meeting your special needs, local
and State governments must do their
share. But this time the Federal Govern-
ment will help.
1005
