Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
pointed Wilbur J. Cohen as Chairman of
the White House Conference on Families.
Cohen is dean of the School of Education
at the University of Michigan and a for-
mer Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare.
Cohen, 64, of Ann Arbor, Mich., was
with the Social Security Administration
from 1935 to 1956, serving as Director of
the Division of Research and Statistics
from 1953 to 1956. From 1956 to 1969, he
was a professor of public welfare admin-
istration at the University of Michigan.
Cohen served as Assistant Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare from
1961 to 1965, as Under Secretary from
1965 to 1968, and as Secretary from 1968
to 1969. Since 1969 he has been dean of
the School of Education at Michigan. He
is resigning as dean effective June 30 of
this year, but will remain with the univer-
sity as a professor of education and public
welfare administration.
Cohen is the author of several books
and numerous articles on social security.
He is considered one of the pioneering
leaders in the development of social se-
curity in the United States, and was also
an early advocate of the Medicare pro-
gram.
The White House Conference on Fam-
ilies, scheduled for December 9-13, 1979,
will explore all facets of family life in
America. President Carter has termed the
family "both the foundation of American
society and its most important institu-
tion."
In announcing the Conference, the
President said last January 30:
"The main purpose of this White
House Conference will be to examine the
strengths of American families, the diffi-
culties they face, and the ways in which
family life is affected by public policies.
The Conference will examine the im-
portant effects that the world of work, the
mass media, the court system, private in-
stitutions, and other major facets of our
society have on American families."
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
April 8
In response to a request from the State
of Maine, the White House Work Group
on the Maine Indian land claims and
Presidential Counsel Robert Lipshutz an-
nounced that an extension of time to re-
spond to the Passamaquoddy and Pe-
nobscot Tribes' proposal for settlement of
Maine land claims has been granted. The
extension will run until May 10, 1978.
April 9
The President returned to the White
House after a weekend stay at Camp
David, Md.
April 10
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-Secretary of Defense Harold Brown
and members of the President's Com-
mission on Military Compensation,
who submitted the Commission's re-
port to the President;
-the Cabinet;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
-members of the House Science and
Technology Committee.
The President attended a portion of the
meeting of the executive board of the Asia
Foundation in the Roosevelt Room at the
White House.
749
