June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Democrats that I've met already tonight
from Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, New
Mexico, Florida, California, Arkansas,
Mississippi, and other States:
I'm glad to be here with you. Thank
you for the wonderful welcome. It's a won-
derful night for Democrats.
It would be difficult to single out all the
brilliant Democratic political leaders who
are here tonight. But I would like to com-
ment on two Texans whom I've gotten to
know well and who mean a lot to me.
One of them is Senator Lloyd Bentsen, a
man who's difficult to describe in adequate
superlatives, who is a fiscal conservative,
who's a social progressive in a very cou-
rageous way, who has a strong national
defense commitment, who's a statesman
on foreign affairs, and within this frame-
work of brief description, is one of the
strongest advocates for Texas and what
you stand for that I've ever met.
When we agree, he's a valuable ally;
when we disagree, he's a fair and a for-
midable adversary. He is a man who's
completely qualified to serve not only in
the United States Senate but in the very
highest office of our land. And since I
never found an appropriate occasion to
say this during the Texas Presidential
primary in 1976, I wanted to say it
tonight. [Laughter]
The other Texan is not quite so well
known, and before I say a few comments
about him, I'd like to give a little back-
ground.
Right after I was elected President,
Helen Strauss called me on the phone,
and she said, "President Carter, I would
like to ask a favor of you." I said, “I'd be
glad to do anything for you, Helen.” She
said, "I'd like for you to give my husband
a job." [Laughter] And I said, "Well,
"Well,
you've been a friend of mine for a long
time, and I care a lot about you. I know
you as a superlative American leader.
Who is your husband?" [Laughter]
She said, "My husband's name is Bob
Strauss. He has been the chairman of the
Democratic Party." And I said, "Yes, I
believe I've heard of him, although I don't
know him well." [Laughter] I said, "Can
you tell me something about his qualifica-
tions?" And she said, "Well, we are old
friends, are we not?" And I said, “Yes, we
are." She said, "Well, it would suit me
better if we didn't discuss qualifications."
[Laughter]
I said, "Well, why, since you all have
lived in Washington, would you want to
get your husband a job to stay in the Capi-
tal City?" She said, "Well, in the first
place, he's exhausted from helping with
the campaigns of Lloyd Bentsen and
Scoop Jackson." [Laughter] "He would
like to have a job where he can stay home
every night and get some rest. He's be-
come accustomed to beautiful clothing
styles and the Washington night life. He
hates to go back to Texas and get his fancy
Italian shoes messed up with cow
manure." [Laughter]
I understand now that he's on a
Federal salary with a pay freeze in, that
he's buying his shoes from South Korea
and Taiwan and Hong Kong. [Laughter]
But to make a long story short, Bob
Strauss has come to work for me, and he
does an absolutely superlative job. Not
only does he represent our Nation well in
international economic circles, but he very
often gives me sound advice, seriously
speaking.
He pointed out to me that in Texas he
had been quite successful and that one of
the reasons for political success was that
there has to be an intimate trust and in-
terrelationship between the top political
officeholder and those who serve in impor-
tant positions, that one of those ways to
guarantee this is have a blood relationship.
He made two recommendations, one of
which I did not follow, and the other one
1166
