Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
trust in the wisdom and strength and where further delay will only lead to more
judgment of the American people.
For the first time in a generation, we
are not haunted by a major international
crisis or by domestic turmoil, and we now
have a rare and a priceless opportunity
to address persistent problems and bur-
dens which come to us as a nation—
quietly and steadily getting worse over the
years.
As President, I've had to ask you, the
Members of Congress, and you, the
American people, to come to grips with
some of the most difficult and hard ques-
tions facing our society.
We must make a maximum effort, be-
cause if we do not aim for the best, we
are very likely to achieve little. I see no
benefit to the country if we delay, because
the problems will only get worse.
We need patience and good will, but
we really need to realize that there is a
limit to the role and the function of
gov-
ernment. Government cannot solve our
problems, it can't set our goals, it cannot
define our vision. Government cannot
eliminate poverty or provide a bountiful
economy or reduce inflation or save our
cities or cure illiteracy or provide energy.
And government cannot mandate good-
ness. Only a true partnership between
government and the people can
hope to reach these goals.
Those of us who govern can sometimes
inspire, and we can identify needs and
marshal resources, but we simply cannot
be the managers of everything and every-
body.
We here in Washington must move
away from crisis management, and we
must establish clear goals for the future—
immediate and the distant future-which
will let us work together and not in con-
flict. Never again should we neglect a
growing crisis like the shortage of energy,
harsh and painful solutions.
Every day we spend more than $120
million for foreign oil. This slows our eco-
nomic growth, it lowers the value of the
dollar overseas, and it aggravates unem-
ployment and inflation here at home.
Now we know what we must do-in-
crease production. We must cut down on
waste. And we must use more of those
fuels which are plentiful and more perma-
nent. We must be fair to people, and we
must not disrupt our Nation's economy
and our budget.
Now, that sounds simple. But I recog-
nize the difficulties involved. I know that
it is not easy for the Congress to act. But
the fact remains that on the energy legis-
lation, we have failed the American
people. Almost 5 years after the oil em-
bargo dramatized the problem for us all,
we still do not have a national energy
program. Not much longer can we toler-
ate this stalemate. It undermines our na-
tional interest both at home and abroad.
We must succeed, and I believe we will.
Our main task at home this year, with
energy a central element, is the Nation's
economy. We must continue the recovery
and further cut unemployment and
inflation.
Last year was a good one for the
United States. We reached all of our
major economic goals for 1977. Four mil-
lion new jobs were created-an alltime
record and the number of unemployed
dropped by more than a million. Unem-
ployment right now is the lowest it has
been since 1974, and not since World War
II has such a high percentage of Ameri-
can people been employed.
The rate of inflation went down. There
was a good growth in business profits and
investments, the source of more jobs for
our workers, and a higher standard of liv-
ing for all our people. After taxes and in-
91
