Jan. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment Agency from 1973 to 1977. Since
August 1977, he has been Acting U.S.
Commissioner on the SCC.
United Nations
Appointment of Mathea Falco as
U.S. Representative on the Commission on
Narcotic Drugs of the Economic and Social
Council. January 13, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Mathea Falco, of Washing-
ton, D.C., as the U.S. Representative on
the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the
Economic and Social Council of the
United Nations.
Falco, 33, is senior adviser to the Secre-
tary of State and Coordinator for Inter-
national Narcotics Matters at the State
Department. From 1974 to 1977, she was
Special Assistant to the President for the
Drug Abuse Council.
Anniversary of the Birth of
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Letter to Coretta Scott King.
December 28, 1977
To Coretta Scott King
Not yet half a century has passed since
your husband's birth, and he has already
been gone from us for almost a decade.
This anniversary reminds us forcefully of
what one life can mean and of what can
be done in a relatively short time to re-
move the obstacles that have blocked the
progress of human beings for generations.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., left us
guideposts: his dedication to breaking
down the barriers that separated people
and his vision of a world where a person's
only limitations would be the individual's
own will and ability to learn and use
opportunities.
The non-violence he practiced requires
a spiritual, intellectual and even physical
commitment—a willingness to risk every-
thing on the principle that you can love
your enemies into submission to a higher
good. He became the worldwide symbol
of the power of that principle and the cost
of that commitment.
We must renew our own commitment,
must again tap that great power and use
it to solve the problems that still face those
he always championed, the poor and the
oppressed. He taught us that whatever
stands in the way of meeting needs can be
overcome even the inertia of the com-
fortable.
I join you in honoring him and the
cause of brotherhood he served.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Mrs. Coretta Scott King, The Martin Luther
King, Jr. Center for Social Change, 671 Beck-
with Street, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30314]
NOTE: The letter was announced by the White
House on January 13.
Federal Reserve System
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Arthur F. Burns as a Member of the Board of
Governors. January 13, 1978
January 13, 1978
Dear Chairman Burns:
It is with sincere regret and a deep
sense of personal loss that I accept your
decision to resign as a member of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board.
We have worked together closely over
the past year, and my respect for your
sound judgment and integrity has grown
steadily. Your advice and counsel have
been of enormous value to me in dealing
with the difficult decisions I had to make
during my first year as President.
64
