Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Last night, as President Pérez said in
his eloquent and significant address, and
I quote him, "Of all Utopias, the most
dangerous is the one of those who think
that the world can continue as it is or as
it was conceived 30 years ago."
These reflections lead us to the funda-
mental statement that the crisis that af-
fects the world now has very deep roots.
We are living through a moral crisis, a
crisis of ethical principles.
Political, economic, and social changes
have already transformed our modern
world. The old colonial empires have fal-
len, and more than a hundred new inde-
pendent nations have risen in their place.
Our nations are more dependent on one
another economically, more willing to deal
with each other as equals, more able to
influence one another-either for good or
for ill-than ever before in human history.
We must all acknowledge this basic
fact: that we share responsibility for
solving our common problems. Our spe-
cific obligations will be different, our in-
terests and our emphases will, of course,
vary, but all of us, North and South, East
and West, must bear our part of the
burden.
If the responsibility for global progress
is not shared, our efforts will certainly fail.
Only if the responsibility is shared may we
attain the goals that our people want and
that our times demand.
world
We share three common goals: first, to
accelerate
economic growth
through greater involvement of the de-
veloping nations, for their progress is es-
sential to global prosperity for us all; sec-
ond, to make the most beneficial use of
the world's greatest wealth, its human po-
tential; and third, to ensure that all na-
tions participate fully in basic decisions
about international economic and politi-
cal affairs.
Only by acting together can we expand
trade and investment in order to create
more jobs, to curb inflation, and to raise
the standard of living of our peoples.
The industrial nations share the same
problems and cannot by themselves bring
about world economic recovery. Strong
growth and expansion in the developing
countries are essential, and as they suc-
ceed, they must be prepared-and this is
difficult for the responsibilities of suc-
cess in this highly competitive world econ-
omy.
There are five steps we must take to-
gether: increasing capital flow to the
developing
developing nations; building a fairer
and a more open system of world trade;
working to moderate disruptive price
movements in the world economy; co-
operating on energy conservation and
development; and strengthening tech-
nological capabilities in the developing
world.
None of these tasks is simple, and each
demands efforts from all sides.
Private institutions and investors will
continue to play the major part in
increasing capital flows, but capital sup-
plied by public institutions and gov-
ernments is also, of course, critical to
development.
We in the United States will do our
part. In managing the international econ-
omy, we place particular importance on
the expansion of the International Mone-
tary Fund, which helps both developing
nations and also the industrial nations to
overcome their balance of payments
problems.
We in the United States will press for
swift congressional approval of our own
substantial contribution to the supple-
mentary financing facility, $10 billion,
recommended by Mr. Witteveen.¹
The international development banks
are fundamental to the health of the
world economy. They contribute to the
¹ H. Johannes Witteveen, Managing Direc-
tor and Chairman of the Board of Executive
Directors, International Monetary Fund.
620
