Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
nor take into consideration the views of all
the Zimbabwean nationalist groups.
The situation in Namibia was also care-
fully examined. Lt. General Obasanjo
emphasized his Government's full sup-
port for SWAPO as the authentic leaders
of the people in their just struggle for
the genuine independence of Namibia,
with its unity, sovereignty and territorial
integrity full guaranteed. President Carter
stressed the need for a settlement of the
Namibian issue which would guarantee
that all political groups would have an
equal and fair opportunity to compete in
free elections in which the people of
Namibia would make their own choice
about their future government. The two
leaders agreed that it is essential for the
peace and security of Africa that Namibia
achieve its independence on the basis of
United Nations Security Council Resolu-
tion 385.
They reviewed the current efforts of
the Five Power Western Contact Group
and discussed the settlement proposal
which the five have developed as a means
to a prompt and peaceful transition to
genuine majority rule in Namibia.
The two Heads of State renewed their
condemnation of the evil and oppressive
system of apartheid in South Africa. They
pledged their joint efforts to work toward
the elimination of this system and the
establishment of justice, equality and
human dignity for all races in South
Africa within a free society where all citi-
zens will exercise their democratic rights
to install a government of their choice.
They appealed to all States to do their
part toward the realization of this
objective.
The Nigerian Head of State, Lt. Gen-
eral Obasanjo, expressed his Govern-
ment's strong disappointment at the lack
of impact of the many concrete proposals
put forward in the past to eradicate the
obnoxious, system of apartheid. This he
ascribed to the inadequacy of the meas-
ures adopted as well as the lack of politi-
cal will on the part of Nations called upon
to implement these measures. He noted
that some of these Nations have pursued
policies of outright collaboration with
South Africa, in both military and eco-
nomic matters. Finally, the Head of State
re-emphasized his Government's deter-
mination to continue to extend all possible
political and material support to the na-
tionalist liberation movements in South
Africa, to ensure an early end of the racist
minority domination.
President Carter and Lt. General
Obasanjo expressed the intention of the
United States of America and the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, as members of the
Security Council, to work closely in the
Council in the interest of strengthening
international peace and security. They
expressed particular approval of the Se-
curity Council's prompt action in estab-
lishing a United Nations Interim force in
Lebanon and pledged their full co-opera-
tion to achieve the objectives of the man-
date granted by the Security Council.
The two Heads of State exchanged
views concerning the situation in the Mid-
dle East and deplored the recent violence
which occurred in that area. They agreed
that it is necessary and urgent to intensify
efforts to achieve a just, comprehensive
and durable peace based on United Na-
tions Security Council Resolutions 242
and 338. They stressed the importance of
withdrawal on all fronts pursuant to Res-
olution 242 and the resolution of all
aspects of the Palestinian question.
The two Heads of State underscored
their commitment to the principles of the
United Nations Charter, particularly
those concerning the importance of
human rights in all societies. To this end
they cited the importance of strengthen-
ing the human rights machinery of the
United Nations.
665
