May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in
peace. We want to see a government
that is fair, where the rights of all citizens
might be protected and ensured; the right
to participate in government is open to all
on an equal basis; that elections might be
held that are open and free, and each per-
son has one vote. We want to see a nation
where majority rule can be instituted for
a change.
The same thing applies to Namibia
the entire southern part of Africa.
I look forward to these conferences
that I will have with President Kenneth
Kaunda with a great deal of anticipation
and pleasure. He's a man who is a senior
statesman, who understands the overall
principles and the details of the compli-
cated interrelationships that exist among
the tribes of southern Africa, the unique
qualities of the people of each nation, and
the failures that have up until this mo-
ment been experienced in bringing free-
dom and a life of hope to many people
in his region.
Zambia is a nation that has been close
to us. And it's with a great deal of pleas-
ure that I welcome to our country this
statesman, and with a great deal of re-
gret that we note that his wife, Betty,
could not be with him on this visit.
President Kaunda, on behalf of the
people of our country, we welcome you as
a friend.
PRESIDENT KAUNDA. Mr. President,
Madam Carter, sisters and brothers:
I welcome this opportunity of visiting
the United States this year. Your words
of welcome are most touching, and your
thoughts about me and my country, very
kind indeed. The warm and friendly re-
ception extended to me, two of my chil-
dren, and my entire delegation, is memo-
rable. I bring friendly greetings from the
people of Zambia to the people of the
United States.
This is not my first visit to this great
country, but being in the United States
today is not the same thing, is not the
same thing as being here a few years ago.
There is an air of freshness which is
invigorating to all those who are com-
mitted to the cause of man the world over.
This new atmosphere which has brought
America closer to many nations, nations
which hitherto had been estranged, is the
product, is the product of President
Carter.
His spirit and principles have brought
inspiration to many nations, particularly
in the Third World and among the op-
pressed. He has given new hopes for im-
proved relations and cooperation between
America and Africa and the rest of the
Third World.
In consequence, the opportunities for
increased cooperation between the peoples
of our two continents are now greater,
greater than ever before. Our task is to
strengthen this happy trend by removing
the remaining obstacles in our way. We
must consolidate our achievements in the
last few months.
Since coming into office, President Car-
ter has played host to a number of African
leaders. His epoch-making visit to Africa
signifies a new recognition of the impor-
tance of Africa to America, just as we
have always recognized the importance of
America to Africa.
We welcome this new approach to
Africa's problems. Naturally, Africa ex-
pects more from a great country like
America, for the challenges of the future
are too serious to be ignored, too great,
too great to be left to chance, too urgent,
too urgent to be left to time.
Africa is growing stronger by the day.
Through the development of her vast re-
sources, Africa's contribution to peace and
the well-being of mankind is growing.
The people of Africa are now a decisive
force in the maintenance of international
peace and security.
918
