Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
2-408. The Secretary of Commerce
shall establish policies concerning spec-
trum assignments and use by radio sta-
tions belonging to and operated by the
United States. Agencies shall consult with
the Secretary of Commerce to ensure that
their conduct of telecommunications ac-
tivities is consistent with those policies.
2-409. The Secretary of Commerce
shall develop, in cooperation with the
Federal Communications Commission, a
comprehensive long-range plan for im-
proved management of all electromag-
netic spectrum resources.
2-410. The Secretary of Commerce
shall conduct studies and make recom-
mendations concerning the impact of the
convergence of computer and communi-
cations technology.
2-411. The Secretary of Commerce
shall coordinate Federal telecommunica-
tions assistance to State and local govern-
ments.
2-412. The Secretary of Commerce
shall conduct and coordinate economic
and technical analyses of telecommunica-
tions policies, activities, and opportunities
in support of assigned responsibilities.
2-413. The Secretary of Commerce
shall contract for studies and reports re-
lated to any aspect of assigned responsi-
bilities.
2-414. The Secretary of Commerce
shall participate with the National Secu-
rity Council and the Director of the Office
of Science and Technology Policy in
carrying out their functions under Sec-
tions 4-1, 4-2, and 4-3 of this Order,
and may perform specific staff services
for them as requested.
2-5. Consultation Responsibilities.
2-501. The authority to establish co-
ordinating committees, as assigned to the
Director of the Office of Telecommunica-
tions Policy by Section 10 of Executive
Order No. 11556, was transferred to the
Secretary of Commerce.
2-502. As permitted by law, the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall establish such
interagency committees and working
groups composed of representatives of in-
terested agencies, and shall consult with
such departments and agencies as may be
necessary for the most effective perform-
ance of his functions. To the extent he
deems it necessary to continue the Inter-
department Radio Advisory Committee,
that Committee shall serve in an advisory
capacity to the Secretary. As permitted by
law, the Secretary also shall establish one
more telecommunications advisory
committees composed of experts in the
telecommunications area outside the
Government.
SECTION 3
FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
3-1. Telecommunications Procurement
and Management.
3-101. The responsibility for serving as
the President's principal adviser on pro-
curement and management of Federal
Telecommunications systems and the
responsibility for developing and estab-
lishing policies for procurement and
management of such systems, which re-
sponsibilities were assigned to the Director
of the Office of Telecommunications Pol-
icy subject to the authority and control of
the President by Section 2(b) of Execu-
tive Order No. 11556, were transferred to
the President.
3-102. These functions are delegated
to the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
3-2. Radio Frequency Appeals.
3-201. The authority to make final dis-
position of appeals from frequency as-
signments by the Secretary of Commerce
601
