May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Sir Robert's career of public service
began half a century ago. He stood by the
United States in three wars, and was in-
strumental in establishing the Australia-
New Zealand-United States alliance
(ANZUS).
After his retirement from public life,
he continued to work at strengthening
the ties of friendship that bind our coun-
tries-serving for a year as scholar-in-
residence at the University of Virginia.
I join with Sir Robert's family and na-
tion in mourning his passing.
NOTE: The White House later announced that
the President asked Governor and Mrs. W.
Averell Harriman to be his personal represent-
atives at the funeral services in Melbourne on
May 19.
Emergency Agricultural
Assistance Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 6782 Into Law.
May 15, 1978
I am today signing H.R. 6782, the
Emergency Agricultural Act of 1978, be-
cause it will help the administration meet
our goal of food and agriculture policies
which are fair and equitable for farmers
and which maintain our ability to com-
pete effectively in world markets.
This is a 4-year measure that will give
us added flexibility in farm programs and
encourage more farmers to use the
grams to achieve maximum benefit.
pro-
On March 29, we took several steps de-
signed to help producers of wheat, feed
grains, and cotton. These actions were
targeted to provide economic incentive
for producers to participate in the 1978
farm programs. Even though a wheat
grazing and haying program was
nounced that day, it did not have an eco-
nomic impact equal to the actions taken
for cotton and feed grain producers.
The discretionary authority that the
Congress has provided in this legislation
allows the Secretary of Agriculture to
raise income support levels in any year in
which a set-aside program is in effect.
Today, I am asking the Secretary to exer-
cise this authority by increasing the in-
come support level for 1978 crop wheat
to $3.40 per bushel, up from the $3.00
provided in the Food and Agriculture Act
of 1977.
As a result of this, wheat producers will
be eligible for approximately $600 million
in additional deficiency payments late this
year, unless the market price is in excess
of $3.00 a bushel during June-October.
An undesirable feature of this bill is the
48-cent-per-pound minimum upland cot-
ton support price for the 1978-81 crops.
This may create problems in future years,
but we expect that market prices will re-
main above the 48-cent loan for the 1978
crop. I intend to propose legislation to
remove this minimum price provision, but
I will not propose to change the modifica-
tions in the formula used to determine the
cotton loan rate.
It is also important to note that the bill
raises the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion's borrowing authority from $14.5
billion to $25 billion. The added $10.5
billion will not increase government ex-
penditures, but will provide funds neces-
sary for the successful operation of cur-
rently announced domestic and foreign
food and agriculture programs.
I congratulate the Congress, and
especially Chairmen Foley and Tal-
madge, for enacting this legislation so
promptly after defeat by the House of
Representatives of the unwise and
untimely "flexible parity" bill. That
bill would have added significantly to
914
