Jan. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
allow me to wish you a very pleasant and
fruitful stay in Delhi and a Happy New
Year.
PRESIDENT CARTER. President and Mrs.
Reddy, Prime Minister Desai, distin-
guished members of the leading group in
India, diplomatic members, and people
of this great country:
I'm certainly delighted to begin my
own new year by coming here to India to
make new friends. My mother, who loves
this nation and its people very deeply, has
told me of the warmth and friendship of
the Indian people.
She experienced it in her years of serv-
ice here and, again, a few months ago in
a time of sorrow when she represented me
as President and the people of the United
States at the funeral of your former presi-
dent.
I know that I will feel at home here be-
cause of the things the United States and
India have in common-the importance
that we attach historically and in this
present day to basic moral values; our
common belief in and the daily practice
of democracy; our mutual commitment to
world peace and to its essential founda-
tions; a more just political and economic
order among the nations, large and small,
rich and poor; our concern for helping
those who are most in need, both our im-
mediate neighbors and those who live far
away from our own homes; the great size
and potential and economic strength of
both our nations; and our readiness on
occasion, Mr. President, to criticize others,
but to be even more critical of ourselves,
knowing that we can always improve even
the superb achievements which our people
have realized.
I'm very glad to be welcomed by you,
such a distinguished leader. And through
our correspondence this year, I have also
already come to regard Prime Minister
Desai as a personal friend. Now I am
happy to meet him and you personally. I
know him to be a man of great courage,
of rectitude and dedication.
We will have much to talk about with
the government leaders of India. Both our
nations know that an interdependent
world requires close cooperation and con-
sultation between the leaders every day,
every year which we serve. I am certainly
grateful for this opportunity to visit your
great country and to learn in person about
the largest democracy on Earth.
On behalf of the people of the United
States, Mr. President, let me say that we
are very glad to renew our friendships, to
establish new ones, and to respond toward
your heartfelt welcome, and also to return
your wish that we both together and the
entire world can have a good new year
and a world at peace.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 2:27 p.m. at
Palam Airport.
Following the arrival ceremony, the Presi-
dent met with President Reddy at the
Rashtrapati Bhavan.
New Delhi, India
Remarks of the President at the Ramlila
Grounds. January 1, 1978
Happy New Year everybody. I bring
you warm New Year's greetings from the
people of the United States. I am moved
and pleased by the size and the warmth
of your welcome. It is a stirring testi-
mony to the common values which have
always bound together the Indian people
and the people of America.
I am particularly pleased with the
presence of the mayor and of your Prime
Minister Desai. I know him to be a man
of uncompromising dedication to person-
al and also public morality. Both he and
I share with the people of India and the
people of my country a deep religious
faith.
2
