Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
Department of Interior, is in the audience
here.
And this creates an additional problem
for us, but what we want is fairness and
equity between native Americans and
others. The case is not one that I can
resolve from the White House. We can
use our good offices as an intermediary,
sometimes add negotiating services, and
the members of my Cabinet can work with
all elements involved. But even then, we
have to get permission from the judges in
the Federal courts to intercede, even to
that degree.
Congress has acted in several instances
with legislation which I have signed into
law. But it's a longstanding problem. It's
one that I hope we can resolve in the next
few years. There are high disputes on
both sides, and great quantities of money
involved. It's a serious problem, one that
we did not create, but it's been growing
in importance for decades.
That's about the best answer I can
give you. I don't know an easy answer to
it.
ANGOLA
Q. What is your view, Mr. President, of
the South African military action against
Angola taken today, and what can the
United States do in this case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our Congress
and my predecessor in the White House
finally reached an agreement that we
would not intercede in Angola, a decision
with which I agree. We are not about to
send American troops to Angola to par-
ticipate in a war in that western African
country.
We want to see peace maintained.
There have been so-called UNITA forces
under Savimbe, operating in the south-
eastern part of Angola ever since the last
war a couple of years ago. President Neto,
who heads up the government in Angola,
has been quite concerned about this.
There are about 20,000 Cubans, also, in
Angola supporting the Neto government.
Savimbe has denied to some of the
European leaders with whom I've talked
any supply of weapons or supply or other
armaments from South Africa. I think he
does get supplies from some other sources,
not from us. But we have no intention to
intercede in any war in Angola.
PRESIDENT'S POPULARITY IN POLLS
Q. Mr. President, Don Porter, KGW
TV News, here in Portland. Sir, before
you arrived much was written and said
and made of the fact you are perceived
by critics to have been unresponsive to
problems of the West. Today, there's a
new national poll that shows only 29 per-
cent of those questioned think you are
doing a good or excellent job as President.
Presumably, you don't agree with these
perceptions. My question is, do you think
these perceptions hamper you in what
you are trying to accomplish, and if so,
do
you have plans to try to counter them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the ways
to counter them is to come to places
where my policies might be in dispute or
misunderstood and try to clarify the issues
that are very difficult to solve and which
involve not only me but involve the Con-
gress, the Governors, mayors, and private
citizens of our Nation.
We have addressed some issues that are
very difficult to resolve. The unemploy-
ment rate was very high, the inflation rate
was very high, the growth in our country
was quite low and disturbing. We didn't
have a strong enough relationship with
the countries of Africa and Europe. The
Middle East dispute has been going on for
30 years. We needed very badly and still
need to have a SALT agreement with the
Soviet Union. And we had been negoti-
ating on the Panama Canal treaties for 14
years before I became President.
851
