Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
Mr. President, Rosalynn, Amy, we're de-
lighted to welcome you home after a most
successful journey to Latin America and
to Africa.
Mr. President, this afternoon's papers
featured a dramatic, front-page photo-
graph of you, from Africa, with hand
raised and four fingers extended. An in-
terdepartmental task force was convened
to determine what it meant. [Laughter]
It returned with a split opinion. A few
said that you were confirming the num-
ber of countries that you had visited, but
most thought you were telling me to hold
my remarks below 4 minutes, and I shall
do so. [Laughter]
Mr. President, your trip to Venezuela,
to Brazil, Nigeria, and Liberia under-
scored your desire to cooperate more
closely with the newly influential coun-
tries of Latin America, Africa, and Asia.
And certainly the marvelous demonstra-
tion of affection witnessed by all of us in
Monrovia today showed their desire for
that same friendship and cooperation
with us.
On your trip you once again reempha-
sized the fundamental American values
of human rights, of individual liberty,
majority rule, and economic justice.
Mr. President, we are delighted by the
success of your journey and pleased to
welcome you home again with us. Wel-
come back.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as the Vice
President said, this has been a good trip.
But it's been a long trip, and we're glad
to be home.
I said when I left this spot last week
that the trip was designed to show our
own great Nation's adaptation to a chang-
ing world. And in that way it has been a
great success, I think, for the United
States.
In Venezuela we strengthened our good
relationship which has existed for a long
time with that country. And we worked
with Venezuela to develop a more coop-
erative approach for the future between
the industrialized, developed nations like
our own and the poor nations of the
world.
In Brazil, one of our close allies over
the years, we reestablished the under-
standing of the long-term, common inter-
ests and friendship between our people.
And we stressed, perhaps in different
ways, our mutual concern about nuclear
nonproliferation and human rights.
In Nigeria, a great, new, emerging
leader and the most populous nation in
Africa, we brought our relationship to the
best point ever and showed our essential
agreement about the troubled spots in
Africa.
And in Liberia, the oldest democracy
in Africa and an ancient ally of ours, we
reaffirmed a very special friendship for a
nation that was founded in the name of
freedom, as was our own country.
This trip and the one I made 3 months
ago demonstrate our Nation's preparation
for dealing with the world of the future.
The countries that I have visited in Africa
and Asia, in Latin America, in the Middle
East will be more and more important to
us with every passing year. We must be
sure that we understand their interests
and that they understand ours.
After seeing these nations firsthand, it's
impossible to doubt that they can be very
important to us and that our fate and the
fate of the people in those countries are
closely related and that the best way to
guarantee our own well-being in a world
of
peace and prosperity, respect for in-
dividual human rights, is to cooperate in
the well-being of these friends and neigh-
bors of ours throughout the Earth. Every
step we take toward more constructive
engagement around the world is an in-
vestment in our own future.
679
