Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
hood rehabilitation and anticrime proj-
ects and a new Urban Volunteer Corps.
All of us recognize, again, that the Fed-
eral Government does not have the re-
sources by itself to do the job. We are
ready to provide the leadership, the com-
mitment, and the incentives which will
encourage all sectors of our country to re-
build and to maintain the quality of
America's communities.
Only through unprecedented consulta-
tion and cooperation has this urban policy
been evolved. Thousands of government
officials and private citizens have worked
for many months to reach this goal, and
now this same mutual effort can ensure
success in implementing the proposals.
This job will not be done overnight.
Problems which have built up over gen-
erations cannot be reversed in a year or
even in a term of a President or a Sen-
ator. But let there be no doubt that today
marks the turning point. For today, we
commit the Federal Government to the
long-term goal of making America's cities
more attractive places in which to work
and to live, and helping the people who
live in them lead happier and more use-
ful lives. With your help we will not fail.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. to a
group of Federal, State, and local officials in
the East Room at the White House.
National Urban Policy
Message to the Congress. March 27, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I submit today my proposals for a com-
prehensive national urban policy. These
proposals set a policy framework for ac-
tions my Administration has already
taken, for proposed new initiatives, and
for our efforts to assist America's com-
munities and their residents in the years
to come. The policy represents a compre-
hensive, long-term commitment to the
Nation's urban areas.
The urban policy I am announcing to-
day will build a New Partnership involv-
ing all levels of government, the private
sector, and neighborhood and voluntary
organizations in a major effort to make
America's cities better places in which to
live and work. It is a comprehensive pol-
icy aimed both at making cities more
healthy and improving the lives of the
people who live in them.
The major proposals will:
Improve the effectiveness of exist-
ing Federal programs by coordinating
these programs, simplifying planning re-
quirements, reorienting resources, and re-
ducing paperwork. And the proposals will
make Federal actions more supportive of
the urban policy effort and develop a
process for analyzing the urban and com-
munity impact of all major Federal ini-
tiatives.
• Provide employment opportunities,
primarily in the private sector, to the
long-term unemployed and the disadvan-
taged in cities. This will be done through a
labor-intensive public works program and
tax and other incentives for business to
hire the long-term unemployed.
• Provide fiscal relief to the most hard-
pressed communities.
• Provide strong incentives to attract
private investment to distressed commu-
nities, including the creation of a Na-
tional Development Bank, expanded
grant programs and targeted tax incen-
tives.
Encourage States to become partners
in assisting urban areas through a new
incentive grant program.
• Stimulate greater involvement by
neighborhood organizations and volun-
tary associations through funding neigh-
581
