Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sure that most families at or near the
poverty level will pay no taxes. Also, a
single tax credit will simplify tax return
preparation by eliminating the confusion
caused by the existing combination of ex-
emptions and alternative credits.
Changes in Itemized Deductions
The primary source of complexity in
the tax laws for many middle-income in-
dividuals is itemized deductions. Average
taxpayers have to maintain burdensome
records in order to substantiate the de-
ductions and are required to decipher
complex tax rules to complete their tax
returns. Restructuring of itemized deduc-
tions is essential if the tax laws are to be
simplified for typical, middle-class indi-
viduals and families.
I am recommending changes in item-
ized deductions that will enable approxi-
mately 6 million taxpayers to switch to
the simple standard deduction. The num-
ber of taxpayers who use the standard de-
duction will be increased from 77 percent
to 84 percent. And the calculation of the
deductions for itemizers will be simplified
greatly.
The deductions that will be curtailed
are ones that add complexity and inequity
to the tax system without advancing sig-
nificant objectives of public policy. We
will have a simpler, more efficient tax
system if we eliminate these deductions
and return the revenue directly to taxpay-
ers through the rate cuts I propose.
(1) State and Local Taxes. The special
deduction will be eliminated for general
sales taxes, taxes on personal property
(but not on residences or buildings), gas-
oline taxes, and miscellaneous taxes.
These itemized deductions are claimed at
nearly uniform rates by all itemizers and
result in a relatively small tax benefit. For
those taxpayers who do not use the pub-
lished deduction tables, the recordkeep-
ing burden can be substantial.
Moreover, a deduction for these types
of taxes cannot be defended on public pol-
icy grounds. A deduction for gasoline
taxes runs counter to our national effort
to conserve energy. And the present level
of State sales taxes cannot be said to de-
pend upon the fact that those State taxes
are deductible for Federal income tax pur-
poses.
(2) Political Contributions Deduction.
Political contributions are now deductible
as an itemized deduction in an amount
not exceeding $200 for a joint return. Al-
ternatively, a taxpayer may claim a credit
against his tax for one-half of his political
contributions, with a maximum credit of
$50 on a joint return.
The reform program will repeal the
political contribution deduction but re-
tain the credit. The deduction is undesir-
able because it provides a larger subsidy
to high-bracket contributors. Due to the
present deduction, the wealthiest individ-
uals can contribute $200 at an after-tax
cost to them of only $60; middle-income
Americans incur a cost of $150 for the
same contribution. Elimination of the de-
duction will enhance tax equity and di-
minish the confusing complexity of the
current scheme of deductions and credits.
(3) Medical and Casualty Deductions.
The medical expense deduction is one of
the most complicated items on the tax
forms. Currently, one-half of the first $300
of health insurance premiums is deducti-
ble outright for those who itemize. Other
medical expenses (including additional
health insurance premiums) are deducti-
ble to the extent they are in excess of 3
percent of adjusted gross income. The lat-
ter category of deductibility also includes
medicines and drugs to the extent they
exceed 1 percent of adjusted gross income.
And there is a separate deduction for
damage to property from a casualty (such
as theft or fire) if the loss exceeds $100
and is not reimbursed by insurance.
164
