Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
general and complete disarmament. In
this connection, the two Presidents un-
derscored the importance of the negotia-
tions on strategic arms limitations, mu-
tual and balanced force reductions in
Central Europe and of other efforts to
limit the arms race. They also stressed
the importance of the forthcoming spe-
cial session of the General Assembly of
the United Nations devoted to disarma-
ment.
The two Presidents emphasized the
decisive importance of the development
of energy for the economic growth of all
countries, and of the developing coun-
tries in particular, and they believe
therefore that nuclear energy for peace-
ful purposes should be made accessible to
all countries without discrimination. The
two Presidents also pointed to the danger
of the proliferation of nuclear weapons
and agreed that this danger can be di-
minished through an effective reduction
of existing nuclear armaments and
through the development and applica-
tion of nuclear energy for peaceful pur-
poses and the implementation of meas-
ures in accordance with the provisions
and objectives of the Treaty on Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and
other international agreements within the
framework of the International Atomic
Energy Agency.
The two Presidents observed that ter-
rorism is a common scourge of the inter-
national community, and they agreed
that effective measures must be taken to
eliminate this senseless threat to people
throughout the world. President Carter
specifically condemned the violence di-
rected against Yugoslavia by terrorists in
the United States and pledged his gov-
ernment's commitment to take firm meas-
ures to prevent and to prosecute such
criminal activity which is against the in-
terests of the United States and of good
United States-Yugoslav relations.
President Carter reiterated the con-
tinuing support of the United States for
the independence, territorial integrity
and unity of Yugoslavia. During the talks
it was stressed that good relations and
cooperation between the United States
and Yugoslavia constitute an essential
element of American foreign policy and
that the United States is interested in a
strong and independent Yugoslavia as a
factor for balance, peace and stability in
Europe and in the world.
President Tito extended an invitation
to President Carter to pay an official visit
to Yugoslavia. The invitation was ac-
cepted with pleasure.
Labor Disputes in the Coal
Industry
Letter Directing the Attorney General To
Seek a Court Injunction Against Further
Strike Activities. March 9, 1978
To Attorney General Griffin Bell
On March 6, 1978, by virtue of author-
ity vested in me by Section 206 of the La-
bor Management Relations Act, 1947 (29
U.S.C. 176), I issued Executive Order
12042. This Order created a Board of In-
quiry to inquire into the issues involved in
a labor-management dispute in the bitu-
minous coal industry which has halted
the production of bituminous coal in al-
most every major coal producing state
east of the Mississippi River.
On March 9, 1978, I received the
Board's written report in this matter,
which indicates that there is little chance
of a prompt settlement of this dispute. A
copy of this report is attached. I have also
directed that a copy be filed with the Fed-
eral Mediation and Conciliation Service
and be made available to the public.
In
my opinion this unresolved labor dis-
pute has resulted in a strike affecting a
488
