June 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United Nations agencies, through the
leaders of other nations, I think we can
enhance the opportunity for better cloth-
ing, housing, food, medical care, educa-
tion, and the protection against suffering
on the part of children in all nations.
So, I'm very eager to be a part of it. It's
a sobering prospect to know that perhaps
once in a lifetime we have an opportunity
to focus attention on such a neglected
group in the world's population.
And I for one, along with Jean Young,
the Commission members, and, I hope,
you and all the people in our Nation, will
help the United States to set an example
of a country whose actions can be equal
to the bigness of our hearts and whose
minds will be attuned to the analysis of
problems and the resolution or solution
of them.
I want to thank all of you for coming
here this afternoon to begin preparations
to make 1979 a successful period in the
study and enhancement of the lives of
children everywhere.
Thank you very much.
MRS. YOUNG. Mr. President, distin-
guished guests and visitors:
We are gathered here representing
many facets of America. Our common
bond is our love and concern for chil-
dren. During International Year of the
Child, we want to affirm children. The
needs that you have so vividly portrayed
are diverse and intense within the world
arena. Within our own Nation, the needs
are complex and difficult. But if we affirm
children, we are on the road to effecting
change.
Children are resilient, tenacious, and
adaptable. Many survive in the most
deplorable conditions. They are also
vulnerable, defenseless, and powerless.
With a little help from us, they can de-
velop into the beautiful, loving, confident,
contributing human beings they were
meant to be.
Mr. President, the commitment and
sensitivity that you have expressed can
help this to happen, along, of course, with
the cooperation of all the concerned
organizations, the governmental agen-
cies, and the dedicated private citizens
throughout this Nation.
Certainly, if we mustered the mighty
forces of this great Nation to protect the
tiny snail darter, certainly our court sys-
tems can protect our most valuable nat-
ural resource, our children. As the entire
world is focusing on children, we call on
all the voices of concern in every commu-
nity throughout this Nation to examine
itself, determine the needs of its children,
and seek remedies through all resources
available-whether private, corporate, or
governmental.
As we affirm children, enjoy them,
listen to voices of concern, seek solutions,
we must not forget the most important
voice in all, the voice of our children
themselves. Regina and Scott, please
come forward and share with us a couple
of the thousands of letters expressing the
concerns of the children of this country.
Mr. President, would you come for-
ward?
SCOTT HIGELL. "Dear Sir, I am just
saying one thing. I wish that all the chil-
dren in the whole world would have a
good parent and a nice home and have
peace. Sincerely yours, Chucky D. Perry."
REGINA HIGGINS. "Dear Sir, our class is
talking a lot about the world and peace.
We want to know how to get it. Your
friend, Roxanna Floris."
MRS. YOUNG. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I want all of you to
go to work, too. We can't do it just for the
Commission. So, we're all in the same
boat. We're all partners in a very worthy
concern-[inaudible]-for our country
and for a better life throughout the world.
1192
