Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 29
In this spirit of harmony and obvious
cooperation, in the warmth of personal
friendship which I feel around us tonight,
I offer a toast to the leader and to the
nation with whom we share so much and
from whom we learn so much.
To President Pérez and to the people
of the great nation of Venezuela.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. at
La Casona in response to a toast by President
Pérez.
Caracas, Venezuela
Remarks Before the Venezuelan Congress.
March 29, 1978
Señor Presidente del Congreso, Señor
Vice Presidente, Señores Senadores,
Señores Deputados, Señora Blanca de
Pérez, señoras y señores:
I'm honored today to stand in this free
assembly of one of the greatest nations on
Earth, to bring warm greetings from the
people of the United States, whose love of
liberty is as deep as your own.
Our nations are joined not just by com-
mon interests but by the strongest and
the most lasting bond of all that of
shared ideals.
Venezuela stands high among those
who have defended the cause of
democracy.
A century and a half ago, you gave to
the world Simón Bolívar, a symbol of
liberty whose example reaches far beyond
the Americas. Now Venezuela provides
unmistakable proof that political liberty
and economic progress need not be con-
flicting ideals, but can strengthen one
another.
Nearly 200 years ago, General Fran-
cisco de Miranda traveled through my
own country as he prepared for the strug-
gle to free Venezuela. And last year, your
President and my friend, Carlos Andrés
Pérez, retraced that journey, and with
each step he took in my own country, he
understood even better our traditional,
common commitment to democratic
values.
Your country has worked tirelessly and
with success for wider adoption of the
American Convention on Human Rights
and strengthening of the Inter-American
Human Rights Commission. We believe,
as you do, that none of us can enjoy true
liberty when others are oppressed.
Your country and others in Latin
America and in the Caribbean have taken
the lead in another area, which will have
an equally profound effect on the world
of the future: the relationship between
the advanced industrial nations which
have the greatest share of influence and
material goods on the one hand, and the
poor and developing nations of the world,
who are understandably seeking a larger
and more equitable share.
Before the Organization of American
States last year, I stated that the economic
issues of central concern to the United
States and to Latin America are global
issues and that they need to be addressed
in a continuing dialog between the rich
and the poor nations.
Closer consultation among our nations
would lead to greater harmony, better col-
lective judgment which can avoid mis-
takes, and the prevention of inadvertent
injury to those who are weak and most
vulnerable.
Today I would like to discuss with
you the responsibility we share-devel-
oped and developing countries alike—for
creating a more just international order.
I want to discuss a vision of what our
world can become-whether it will be a
world of inequality and want, or one of
partnership and fulfillment; whether we
anticipate the changes that must inevita-
bly come and adopt them, or turn our
backs on the future, vainly believing that
change can be forestalled.
619
