Feb. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
at other States, such as South Carolina,
just to make sure they're complying.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Well,
I'd like to reemphasize one more time, I
don't deplore nor do I disagree with the
action HEW is taking. But it is in direct
compliance with the Federal court order.
FEDERAL REGIONAL OFFICES
Q. Mr. President, given the path that
your administration has taken relative to
implementing domestic programs which
address the negative impact of high un-
employment levels among our cities, spe-
cifically the intention of the Economic
Development Administration Public
Works program and the $400 million
Housing and Urban Development Urban
Action Grants program, it seems that
many key Carter appointments within
these two agencies have yet to be made.
How does this situation affect the deliv-
ery of these well-intended programs? I'm
referring to the Indianapolis head area
office directorship, and the Chicago EDA
regional office directorship.
THE PRESIDENT. Just before lunch, I
came back from a conference, that has
been underway now for 2 days, of all of
our top regional officers representing the
agencies that you've described and others.
It's the first time this has ever been done.
When I came into office, I was very
disappointed, as a past Governor, with
the effectiveness of regional offices. And
one of the options that we assessed was to
eliminate these offices altogether. After 8
or 10 months of study at the Cabinet level
and out in the field, we decided to put
them together in a much more effective
fashion, to keep them informed about
basic thrusts not only of legislation itself
but of implementing procedures.
We've eliminated the disharmonies
among Cabinet officers that previously
were mirrored at the regional level. And
I've asked these regional leaders of 10
regions this morning, plus, I guess, a hun-
dred or so others, at the end of a year to
give me a report on how well they were
doing to work closely with the State and
local officials, to have innovative programs
on their own, and to call me directly if
there was ever any obstacle to good ad-
ministration at the Cabinet level or at the
White House staff level.
I think that we have gone through a 12-
month period of complete reassessment.
But I feel confident that now the regional
offices will have a rapidly increasing de-
gree of both autonomy and responsibility.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Mr. President, I've been a believer
in the energy program from the start. And
in our house, which is 50 years old, be-
tween last year and this year, in the same
month, we saved 17,000 cubic feet of natu-
ral gas through insulation measures and
other measures, putting in a new furnace
and this and that. Where do we stand on
the energy program right now?
THE PRESIDENT. I proposed a compre-
hensive energy plan last April 20. The
House passed it in August-a very good
program which was completely acceptable
to me. The Senate passed an unacceptable
program, which they acknowledged to be
unacceptable, just to get to conference last
October or November. And since then, the
conference committee of the Senate has
been split 9 to 9, and not a single member
has changed his vote. Senator Lee Metcalf
died, which left the committee 9 to 8.
And we have not been able to get a
full committee meeting even in the Sen-
ate. Senator Jackson is the chairman of
the Senate conferees. He's been working
literally day and night since Christmas,
trying to work out some resolution of the
question that's been the major obstacle,
and that is the pricing of natural gas.
310
