Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
antee of those loans; in fact, we would
gain somewhat from interest paid by New
York City on the guaranteed loans of the
Federal Government. And I think it
would remove the requirement that New
York City act on an emergency basis in
just 2 or 3 years at the most, when if they
were given 7 or 8 years to work out of
their problems, with careful constraints
and monitoring of their actions, this
would be a much more businesslike ap-
proach.
It would also let the labor unions, with
their retirement funds, private inves-
tors, the banks, and others in New York,
the sale of bonds themselves, which would
be guaranteed by the Federal Govern-
ment, and action by local and State offi-
cials to be much more carefully planned
and much more harmonious.
So, for all practical purposes that I
have been able to consider, I think that
the long-range guarantee of those bor-
rowed funds, those debts of New York
City, is the best approach. My hope is that
even though the committee may be much
more averse to the proposal, that on
the Senate floor itself, that the vote will
be favorable and that the Senate will
emulate what the House has done and
approve those loan guarantees for New
York City.
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SOVIET UNION
Q. In addition to the impending trial
of Anatoly Shcharanskiy, who you have
very vigorously denied was a CIA agent
or had any intelligence functions, the
Soviets have now arrested and imprisoned
Vladimir Slepak, who you cabled in a
telegram November 1976 you would make
a cardinal element of your policy when
you were elected, his defense and the de-
fense of other Soviets who have been
accused.
and some of the other Soviet actions in
this field as a personal response to your
human rights campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't believe it's
a personal response to a campaign that I
have launched on human rights. I think
the fact of the matter is, long before I
came in office, the Soviet Union volun-
tarily signed the agreement at Helsinki,
the last portion of which guaranteed cer-
tain basic civil rights within the bounda-
ries of individual nations.
It's not as though other nations were
intruding into the internal affairs of the
Soviet Union. The Soviet Union volun-
tarily agreed to meet certain standards on
the protection of the rights of its own citi-
zens. There was set up a group within
the Soviet Union and other countries to
monitor compliance with the agreement,
which the Soviets themselves had signed,
and a substantial portion of that group
in the Soviet Union have now been either
harassed or imprisoned or tried, and I
think this is something that is continuing.
I don't believe that it's an attack on me.
I think it's a matter, as I said in my speech
in Annapolis, of whether or not the Soviet
Union can stand internal dissension and
monitoring of the actions of the govern-
ment by private citizens or private citizens
groups.
I have expressed in the strongest pos-
sible terms, both publicly and through
diplomatic channels, our concern about
the actions of the Soviet Government.
And I believe that even though they obvi-
ously have a right to make decisions with-
in their own country, this works against
the best interests of harmony and peace
between the Soviet Union and other
countries, because they look with concern
upon the attitude of the Soviet Union
towards its own citizens and they see in
these actions a violation of an agreement,
a solemn agreement, which the Soviet
Do you regard the arrest of Mr. Slepak Union voluntarily signed.
1099
