Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
His dream and the dream of George
Washington, of San Martín, of all those
who struggle today for human liberty,
will triumph.
I am happy to be with you.
Viva Venezuela!
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:57 p.m. at
the Pantheon Plaza. He spoke in Spanish,
and the translation of his remarks follows the
White House press release.
Following the ceremony, President Carter
and President Pérez proceeded to La Casona,
the presidential residence, for meetings.
Caracas, Venezuela
Informal Exchange With Reporters Following
Meetings Between President Carter and
President Pérez. March 28, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. We signed agree-
ments this afternoon between Venezuela
and the United States which determined
the maritime boundaries between our-
selves and Venezuela.
This is the first agreement that Vene-
zuela has signed with any other country.
And the next step would be to reach an
agreement on fishing rights between our
two countries and the marine areas that
we both control.
We also signed a very important agree-
ment between ourselves and Venezuela
to control narcotics. We have an increas-
ing problem between South America and
North America in the shipment of nar-
cotics between the two continents, and we
have already begun to cooperate very
closely between our two countries to con-
trol these illegal shipments.
I might say that between the United
States and Venezuela there are very few
differences. I am blessed by having a
friend in President Pérez with great ex-
perience in international affairs and also
a great interest in the affairs of the world.
He also has a different perspective from
the one that the President of the United
States might have, and he has been a very
good counselor for me in understanding
the relationships that exist between the
developed, industrial nations of the world
on the one hand and the developing
nations on the other.
So, we just expressed this afternoon new
agreements that typify the good relations
between us and the people of Venezuela.
Q. Do you think that the trade laws
that affect foreign trade in our country
might be derelict by the Congress of the
United States?
PRESIDENT CARTER. Of course, we al-
ready enjoy a great trade with Venezuela.
We purchase from your country roughly
$4 billion worth of oil and other products
each year. We sell to Venezuela about $1
billion less, about $3 billion.
I would guess that in the future we
would move to increase the opportunities
for trade and to remove any obstacles to
favored-nation status that exist.
At the present time, our laws passed by
Congress prevent the preferred trading
status among nations who sell large quan-
tities of oil, because they are soon to be
very rich. But this may be changed in the
future, and I would be glad to see the
changes made.
Q. Could we ask both of you to com-
ment on something? The Saudis have said
they cannot promise to hold down the
price of oil if the U.S. dollar continues
to decline. Did the two of you discuss
this today? And what is your under-
standing of President Pérez' position on
this?
PRESIDENT CARTER. I might add that
this afternoon we limited our discussions
to political matters and to matters of
616
