Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 31
also the NATO community, friends and
allies.
The most important subject, possibly,
was to define and to commit ourselves to
a Long-Term Defense Program. This,
again, was proposed after a year-long
study by our defense ministers and their
subordinates. There was a unanimous en-
dorsement of this commitment extending
over the next 15 years and acknowledge-
ment that incremental improvements in
our defense capability was not needed as
the result of fear or trepidation or crisis or
deep concern, but just was a reconfirma-
tion of the necessity for a strong alliance
to be mirrored in a common revitaliza-
tion of the Alliance because of our mu-
tual commitment to sustain its military
strength.
We also resolved to follow through on
these recommendations. Additionally, we
discussed matters that are of concern to
us all, the SALT negotiations, present
and future prospects; the mutual and bal-
anced force reduction talks, which are
gaining momentum, we believe; general
questions concerning the Mideast, Africa,
the economy of our countries. We had a
very good discussion, I believe, sometimes
heated, concerning the southern flank of
NATO, involving the United States,
Greece, Turkey. I reconfirmed to the en-
tire group the purpose of our own admin-
istration to remove the legal barriers to
the supply of military equipment and
weapons to Turkey, an action still to be
considered by the Congress.
There was a strong statement to this
effect by the entire Alliance. Greece ex-
pressed some predictable reservations,
but there was a meeting of minds about
the need to have harmony between
Greece and Turkey and a strengthening
of our southeastern flank of NATO.
And lastly, there was a sense of friend-
ship, of shared history. We reconfirmed
our commitment to an alliance that's
strong. And I think all of us see the fu-
ture much more clearly than we did when
this long, tedious, but productive study
was initiated.
I feel much better about what NATO
is, what it can be, and I think the po-
tential frictions that arise among auton-
omous peoples, individualistic and proud,
have been minimized. And I think every
participating leader in diplomacy and de-
fense and as executive leaders would
share the assessment that I have just
made.
It was a productive and constructive
meeting, which will only result in an en-
hanced possibility for peace in the Eu-
ropean theater, for our own country,
and Canada, indeed for the entire world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:17 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Dean Acheson Room
at the State Department.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Constantine Caramanlis of
Greece
White House Statement. May 31, 1978
President Carter and Greek Prime Min-
ister Caramanlis met today at the White
House for 1 hour to discuss the entire
range of issues regarding Greek-U.S. rela-
tions, the situation in the Eastern Medi-
terranean, and NATO. The meeting
between the two leaders was warm and
cordial with the President praising the
restoration of democratic institutions in
Greece under the Prime Minister's
leadership.
The President emphasized the vital im-
portance of maintaining peace in the
Eastern Mediterranean. In this regard,
1025
