Feb. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
him on going to visit Cardinal Wyszynski
just recently. I told him to visit him often
and we had not given up yet on convert-
ing him to Christianity. I told him it was
never too late for him to have the same
faith as we. [Laughter]
He and I got along well. And I thought
that the Polish Government, who could
have done otherwise, made it easy for us
to reach literally millions of people in
Poland through the fully broadcast news
conference, which was unprecedented,
and almost all of the news reporters were
permitted to come. I commented publicly
on the ones that weren't permitted to
come, and I answered their written ques-
tions later for them.
It was truly an inspiring thing for me.
And with a few variations in the interpre-
tation that went out to the Polish people-
[laughter] the written transcript of the
interview, which was a freewheeling, open
press conference, went verbatim in the
major Polish news media throughout the
land. So, I thought it was an excellent
opportunity for us to communicate freely
with them.
I was overwhelmed with the response
of the Polish people when we discussed
the historic ties that have long bound our
countries together. As a southerner from
Georgia, my own earliest studies of both
Georgia and United States history have
included in a major way the reports of the
great heroism and dedication of Kos-
ciuszko and Pulaski. My own son Chip's
wife is from Pulaski County in Georgia,
named in honor of the Polish patriot who
helped us win our independence. And we
discussed quite freely, both with people
whom we met on the streets and those
who were servants in the beautiful man-
sion we stayed and those in the govern-
ment, the common effort that we had
made in the world wars, when Poland was
so nearly destroyed.
I have heard from a child about the
devastation of the War Between the States
that afflicted my own grandparents and
some of yours. But I have never seen a
nation which had been so terribly dam-
aged by war as Poland.
We learned about the history of Warsaw
and the heroism of the people there and
the courage in rebuilding that beautiful
city. And we saw the small portion of the
visual treasures of ancient Poland that
had been preserved, and we were thank-
ful to have a chance to see that beautiful
display of Polish art.
We had also an opportunity to learn at
first hand about the relative freedom that
the Polish people have to worship, and I
commented on it publicly because I think
it's a precious thing. We have many very
fine Polish Americans in our Nation who
have occupied positions of great impor-
tance. And you have honored us by com-
ing here this evening.
I have decided to ask Danny Rosten-
kowski and Senator Muskie and Senator
Robert Byrd, all of whom have contacted
me about it, to introduce a special bill to
authorize Mrs. Eddie Slovik to receive her
insurance payments from the last war.
I had a letter earlier from the Polish
American Society asking me to do this.
And I have inquired with the Attorney
General and with the Secretary of De-
fense-it's not legal for me to authorize
these payments. So, there will be a special
bill introduced in Congress which I will
support. And Senator Byrd, the majority
leader in the Senate,
the Senate, Congressman
Rostenkowski, Congressman Rangel have
already expressed their eagerness to see
this introduced in the House, and I hope
it will pass without delay.
I would like to say in closing that this is
an opportunity for us to reassert the ap-
preciation in our country for those historic
ties between Poland and our Nation. We
282
