Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
in deficit. These imbalances have been a
major factor contributing to disorder in
exchange markets in recent months.
The condition of the world economy re-
quires above all that nations work to-
gether to develop mutually beneficial so-
lutions to global problems. If we fail to
work together, we will lose the gains in
living standards arising from the expan-
sion of world commerce over the past
three decades. If the world economy be-
comes a collection of isolated and weak
nations, we will all lose.
The first priority in our international
economic policy is continued economic
recovery throughout the industrial world.
Growth of the U.S. economy—the largest
and strongest in the world-is of vital im-
portance. The economic program that I
have proposed will ensure that America
remains a leader and a source of strength
in the world economy. It is important
that other strong nations join with us to
take direct actions to spur demand within
their own economies. World recovery
cannot proceed if nations rely upon ex-
ports as the principal source of economic
expansion.
At the same time all countries must
continue the battle against inflation. This
will require prudent fiscal and monetary
policies. Such policies must be supple-
mented by steps to reduce structural
unemployment, measures to avoid bottle-
necks by encouraging investment, and co-
operation in the accumulation of com-
modity reserves to insulate the world
from unforeseen shocks.
Reducing the widespread imbalances
in international payments will require sev-
eral parallel steps. To begin with, each
individual country must ensure that its
own policies help relieve the strains. The
United States will do its part. In 1977
we had a current account deficit of about
$18 billion. While not a cause for alarm,
this is a matter of concern. We can take
a most constructive step toward correct-
ing this deficit by moving quickly to enact
the National Energy Plan.
Countries in surplus should also do
their part. Balance of payments surpluses
in some countries have contributed to the
economic stagnation among their trading
partners. Where their own economies
have slack, it is appropriate for nations in
surplus to stimulate the growth of do-
mestic demand-thereby increasing their
imports and improving the prospects for
growth in deficit countries. In some coun-
tries, lifting restraints on imports from
abroad and reducing excessive govern-
ment efforts to promote exports would be
useful. After consultations with the
United States, the Japanese have indi-
cated they will take a series of steps toward
reducing their large surplus.
The system of flexible exchange rates
for currencies also can be helpful in cor-
recting unsustainable imbalances in pay-
ments among countries. Since its incep-
tion in 1973, this system has operated well
under unprecedented strains.
During 1977 the U.S. dollar has fallen
in value against several key currencies.
The decline in the dollar's value has oc-
curred primarily against the currencies of
those nations that have large trade and
payments surpluses, and was not surpris-
ing in view of our large payments deficit
and their surpluses. Late in 1977, how-
ever, movements in our exchange rate be-
came both disorderly and excessively
rapid. The United States reaffirmed its
intention to step in when conditions in
exchange markets become disorderly and
to work in close cooperation with our
friends abroad in this effort.
Under the flexible exchange rate sys-
tem basic economic forces must continue
143
