Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 28
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. You had met with American
Armenian groups, and a personal question
is, do you now, as the President, still feel
that strong feeling that you expressed then
in Newark?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think, first of
all, that the Helsinki agreement has
played a useful role. We've never acknowl-
edged, as you know, the absorption by the
Soviet Union of the groups to whom you
refer. My wife's brother-his wife is an
Estonian; she was born and raised there.
And we've had a chance in the last few
months at Belgrade to specify particular
violations of human rights which were in
conflict with the Helsinki agreement.
As you know, the Soviets wanted to
minimize the so-called third basket and
not discuss human rights, but talk about
military and political interrelationships.
I think we're making some progress. In
my private discussions with foreign lead-
ers-and I set a record last year by meet-
ing with 68 heads of state-hardly ever
do we have a 10- or 15-minute or, cer-
tainly, not a 3-hour discussion that the
subject of human rights doesn't arise. In
most instances, they raise it.
My guess is that 2 years ago, the subject
of human rights would be a rarity among
heads of state. But now, even the most
abusive governments, there is a concern-
"what does the rest of the world think
about me, what will happen if I persecute
this group or bring a legal charge against
this person?"
I think we are making success in a very
slow, tedious way. I notice that this morn-
ing-I can't vouch for the accuracy of
it-there was a story in the news, for in-
stance, about contending military leaders
in Argentina. And the challenging group,
I think from the Navy, said that their
basis for future success was their deeper
commitment to human rights, and they
thought that we might support them be-
cause they were more convinced that hu-
man rights was a case.
Last night I watched the news, which
I don't ordinarily do—I don't get home
that early, but I had company-and there
was a story about the 10,000 Indonesians
who are being released from prison this
year. I think there is kind of a subtle thing,
but I think that this is one of the major
commitments that we've made that has
aroused worldwide interest, not always
worldwide cooperation. And I don't in-
tend to back down on it ever. As long as
I'm in the White House, human rights will
be a major consideration of every foreign
policy decision that I make, and I might
say, also, domestic.
CAMPAIGN PLANS
Q. Mr. President, do you plan any
campaign trips later this year for Demo-
cratic congressional candidates?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. If so, where?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'll have several.
I think the first one that I'll have will be
within the next-probably within the next
month or so, probably up in the New
England area, and in March I'll probably
do another one. I don't know how many
I will make. But there will be several.
Did I answer your question?
Q. I'm from Indiana. [Laughter] I spe-
cifically-would you come to Indiana if
Congressman Brademas or Congressman
Fithian asked you to?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can't make a
specific promise, because they haven't in-
vited me. But I was there last year when
Congressman Brademas and I were both
running, and I visited Indiana frequently
during 1976, quite often to help the local
candidates and State candidates more
than myself, really. I just don't know how
to answer your question. I certainly would
237
