Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
and faith, could overcome injustice by
appealing to the spark of good in the
heart, even, of the evil-doer.
Like Gandhi, we all learned that a sys-
tem of oppression damages those at the
top as surely as it does those at the bot-
tom. And for Martin Luther King, like
Mahatma Gandhi, nonviolence was not
only a political method, it was a way of
life and a spiritual path to union with the
ultimate.
These men set a standard of courage
and idealism that few of us can meet, but
from which all of us can draw inspiration
and sustenance.
The nonviolent movement for racial
justice in the United States, a movement
inspired in large measure by the teach-
ings and examples of Gandhi and other
Indian leaders—some of whom are here
today-changed and enriched my own
life and the lives of many millions of my
countrymen.
I am sure you will forgive me for speak-
ing about this at some length. I do so be-
cause I want you all to understand that
when I speak of friendship between the
United States and India, I speak from the
heart as well as the head. I speak from
a deep, firsthand knowledge of what the
relationship between our two countries
has meant in the past and how much
more, even, it can mean for all of us in
the future.
For the remainder of this century and
into the next, the democratic countries
of the world will increasingly turn to each
other for answers to our most pressing
common challenge: how our political and
spiritual values can provide the basis for
dealing with the social and economic
strains to which they will unquestionably
be subjected.
The experience of democracy is like the
experience of life itself-always changing,
infinite in its variety, sometimes turbulent,
and all the more valuable for having been
tested by adversity.
We share that experience with you, and
we draw strength from it. Whatever the
differences between my country and yours,
we are moving along the path of democ-
racy toward a common goal of human de-
velopment. I speak for all Americans
when I say that I am deeply grateful that
you and I travel that road together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:33 p.m. at
Parliament House. In his opening remarks, he
referred to B. D. Jatti, Vice President of India,
Prime Minister Desai, who had introduced
him, and K. S. Hegde, Speaker of the House
of the People.
New Delhi, India
Toasts of the President and President N. S.
Reddy at a State Dinner. January 2, 1978
PRESIDENT REDDY. We are happy to have
you with us this evening. My people asso-
ciate America as a land of liberty, and
they look upon you, Mr. President, as a
leader who has sought to restore the rel-
evance of moral and spiritual values.
The year just ended will long be re-
membered in the annals of our two na-
tions. The people of the United States of
America elected you to the White House
to heal the wounds of a decade of con-
flicts and divisions. In India, our general
elections gave proof that in a democracy
the will of the people is the ultimate
arbiter of power. Your visit provides the
opportunity to establish closer personal
contacts between the newly elected and
like-minded leaders of our two countries
and to strengthen the deep affinities be-
tween us. I welcome you on behalf of my
people and my government.
Notwithstanding the ideals which we
share, we have varied emphasis in our pri-
11
