Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
million in budget authority previously
provided by the Congress. In addition, I
am reporting six new deferrals of budget
authority totalling $1,517.1 million and
seven revisions to previously transmitted
deferrals increasing the amount deferred
by $2.2 million in budget authority.
The rescission proposals affect the mili-
tary assistance program, the Department
of State's appropriation for contributions
for international peacekeeping activities,
and the revolving fund of the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board.
The new deferrals and revisions to ex-
isting deferrals involve programs of the
Departments of Agriculture, Commerce,
Health, Education, and Welfare, Justice,
Labor, Transportation, the Treasury, and
the Panama Canal Zone Government, the
National Science Foundation, and the
United States Information Agency.
The details of each rescission proposal
and deferral are contained in the attached
reports.
The White House,
January 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescis-
sions and deferrals are printed in the FED-
ERAL REGISTER of February 1, 1978.
National Afro-American (Black)
History Month, February 1978
Message of the President. January 27, 1978
This Month gives black Americans a
wonderful opportunity to review their
roots, their achievements and their pro-
jections; and it provides for all Americans
a chance to rejoice and express pride in
a heritage that adds so much to our way
of life.
I commend the Association for the
Study of Afro-American Life and History
on its sponsorship of this traditional
observance.
Calling attention to the contributions
of black people to our overall progress and
development, the month of February thus
serves to build goodwill and understand-
ing between all people. It gives each of
us a keener appreciation of an important
part of the priceless legacy which Ameri-
cans of every creed, color and national
origin are fortunate to share.
Rosalynn and I join in urging fellow
citizens everywhere to help make this
year's celebration especially meaningful
and rewarding.
JIMMY CARTER
Democratic National Committee
Remarks at a Special Meeting of the
Committee. January 27, 1978
Chairman John White and Chairman
Ken Curtis, Chairman Bob Strauss-
[laughter] distinguished members and
officers of the Democratic National Com-
mittee and friends:
It's really great to come over here and
to have such a good reception. I think it
was a surprise to John White. He had
asked me specifically to come after he was
elected. [Laughter] When you get more
applause than Bob Strauss, it makes you
feel very good. [Laughter]
I want to be brief this morning, but to
tell you a few things that are important
to me and, I think, to you. In the first
place, I want to express my admiration
and my appreciation to Ken Curtis for
having done such a superb job this past
year.
Shortly after I was elected Governor,
and before I was inaugurated, I had an
opportunity to meet Ken Curtis and
Polly and Angel, and there was an instant
rapport between us and an instant admi-
224
