Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 4
that are most in need, to families that
have a fairly good income, say, $20,000,
or have two young people in school, and
so forth.
So, I will not accept the two programs.
Obviously, the one I favor is the one
we've put forward. I think that the in-
come tax credit, as a way to resolve the
problem of student financing, is ill-
advised.
CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC
Q. Mr. President, my question is two-
fold. There is in the office of Governor Jim
Hunt in North Carolina an Office of
Citizen Affairs which permits voluntarism
and offers a citizen helpline to attempt
to cut through the bureaucracy. We feel
that this office is a most important office,
and we wonder, at the Federal level, what
promotion and support we are receiving,
particularly in your administration.
My second question is, when are you
coming to North Carolina? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'm coming to North
Carolina on the 17th of March. This is
being announced today. I'll be in
Winston-Salem, and I'll be making what
I consider to be a major speech on the
national defense, and also visiting friends
of mine, Steve Neal, Bob Morgan, Jim
Hunt, and others.
I met with Jim Hunt and Bob Morgan
earlier this week to go into some of their
relationships between North Carolina
and the Federal Government. One of
those, obviously, is the question of the
school desegregation lawsuit involving the
university system in North Carolina.
As you know, the HEW Department is
under orders of a Federal judge to resolve
that problem. And my own hope is, and
my own expectation, by the way, is that
this can be resolved satisfactorily on a
mutual basis between Bill Friday, Joe
Califano, and others.
So, we have a good relationship, I
think, with people in the State directly,
with Midge Costanza and her office, by
delegations who wouldn't ordinarily have
a voice and who have not in the past had
a voice. I think my own travels around
the country, to North Carolina this
month and to other States as well-on a
very frequent basis so that I can keep
directly in touch with students and
others the regular relationships that we
have with Governors, unprecedented, I
might say, congressional delegations.
and constant relationship with people to
So, we've got a good and very active
make sure we get an input. This is one
of the dangers of being President, is to
be overly isolated. But I've had now a
chance to have townhall-type meetings
weeks, I have had two of them, one in
on a frequent basis. Within the last 2
Maine and one in New Hampshire. The
latter one I had about 1,500 people pres-
ent. I think we had five students from
every high school in New Hampshire, and
teacher-counselors. And they had a week
or so to prepare questions for me.
I had an hour-and-a-half session on
nationwide television to answer their
questions about issues. So, I try to stay in
close contact through those means.
VIETNAM VETERANS
Q. Do you feel that your pardon of
Vietnam era selective service resisters
has been a success; and, secondly, is there
any possibility of extending that pardon
to include military deserters?
THE PRESIDENT. It's only partially
successful because of the constraints
placed on that program by Congress. I
felt that we needed a much more compre-
hensive system of pardoning Vietnam
veterans and also restoring their rights
after the pardon is issued.
We're proceeding as best we can with
that program under the constraints that
463
