Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(1) Each regulatory analysis shall
contain a succinct statement of the
problem; a description of the ma-
jor alternative ways of dealing
with the problem that were con-
sidered by the agency; an analy-
sis of the economic consequences
of each of these alternatives and
a detailed explanation of the rea-
sons for choosing one alternative
over the others.
(2) Agencies shall include in their
public notice of proposed rules an
explanation of the regulatory ap-
proach that has been selected or is
favored and a short description of
the other alternatives considered.
A statement of how the public
may obtain a copy of the draft reg-
ulatory analysis shall also be in-
cluded.
(3) Agencies shall prepare a final reg-
ulatory analysis to be made avail-
able when the final regulations are
published.
Regulatory analyses shall not be re-
quired in rulemaking proceedings pend-
ing at the time this Order is issued if an
Economic Impact Statement has already
been prepared in accordance with Execu-
tive Orders 11821 and 11949.
SEC. 4. Review of Existing Regulations.
Agencies shall periodically review their
existing regulations to determine whether
they are achieving the policy goals of this
Order. This review will follow the same
procedural steps outlined for the develop-
ment of new regulations.
In selecting regulations to be reviewed,
agencies shall consider such criteria as:
(a) the continued need for the regu-
lation;
(b) the type and number of com-
plaints or suggestions received;
(c) the burdens imposed on those di-
rectly or indirectly affected by the
regulations;
(d) the need to simplify or clarify lan-
guage;
(e) the need to eliminate overlapping
and duplicative regulations; and
(f) the length of time since the regu-
lation has been evaluated or the
degree to which technology, eco-
nomic conditions or other factors
have changed in the area affected
by the regulation.
Agencies shall develop their selection
criteria and a listing of possible regula-
tions for initial review. The criteria and
listing shall be published for comment as
required in Section 5. Subsequently, reg-
ulations selected for review shall be in-
cluded in the semiannual agency agendas.
SEC. 5. Implementation.
(a) Each agency shall review its exist-
ing process for developing regulations and
revise it as needed to comply with this
Order. Within 60 days after the issuance
of the Order, each agency shall prepare
a draft report outlining (1) a brief de-
scription of its process for developing reg-
ulations and the changes that have been
made to comply with this Order; (2) its
proposed criteria for defining significant
agency regulations; (3) its proposed cri-
teria for identifying which regulations
require regulatory analysis; and (4) its
proposed criteria for selecting existing
regulations to be reviewed and a list of
regulations that the agency will consider
for its initial review. This report shall be
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER for
public comment. A copy of this report
shall be sent to the Office of Management
and Budget.
(b) After receiving public comment,
agencies shall submit their revised report
to the Office of Management and Budg-
et for approval before final publication
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
(c) The Office of Management and
Budget shall assure the effective imple-
mentation of this Order. OMB shall re-
560
