Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 3, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With American Press Institute Editors.
January 27, 1978
The President. Just reading one of my
favorite papers here. [Laughter]
Well, I'm particularly grateful to have
you come. I know you've had a good ses-
sion at Reston. And I want to take just a
minute to outline some of the things that
you might want to discuss with me, and
then I'll spend most of the time answering
your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We've now finished a year as the ad-
ministration in the White House and have
learned a lot. I think I have a much bet-
ter and easier and understanding relation-
ship with the Congress, with my Cabi-
net-which I consider to be superb
and we've defined issues very carefully.
We're trying to carry out our campaign
commitments. There's a growing under-
standing among the American people of
what we are trying to do. We're address-
ing some difficult questions that have
been long unaddressed, or at least un-
solved. We don't have any magic answers,
but I think there's a growing comprehen-
sion around the world that we reestab-
lished a true and accurate sense in foreign
policy of what the American people stand
for and what we want to have as a char-
acteristic of our own Nation and our own
Government.
We're trying to guarantee peaceful res-
olution of any differences or competition
with the Soviet Union. We're trying to
add our good will and our good offices in
the Middle East when the discussions lag
or when there is a problem there in com-
munication among the leaders. I think we
are trusted, in general, by all of them who
are seeking peace.
We are strengthening our relationship
and our involvement and interest in Af-
rica. We've had a good response in Latin
America, particularly as a result of suc-
cessful negotiations with the Panama
Canal treaties, which are now being con-
sidered by the Senate, as you know.
As I pointed out in the State of the Un-
ion message, we had a very successful eco-
nomic year in our country in 1977. But
we still have some chronic problems, par-
ticularly unemployment among minority
groups and young people and a general
uncertainty about the economic future be-
cause of a lack of resolution of the energy
question, that need to be addressed.
We have gone through, now, one com-
plete budget cycle. And I've put an enor-
mous amount of time in, personally, in the
evolution of the fiscal year '79 budget,
more than I will for the 1980 or 1981
233
