June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
(a) makes a written determination that
access is consistent with the interests of
national security;
(b) takes appropriate steps to ensure
that access is limited to specific categories
of information over which that agency
has classification jurisdiction;
(c) limits the access granted to former
Presidential appointees to items that the
person originated, reviewed, signed or
received while serving as a Presidential
appointee.
4-4. Reproduction Controls.
4-401. Top Secret documents may not
be reproduced without the consent of the
originating agency unless otherwise
marked by the originating office.
4-402. Reproduction of Secret and
Confidential documents may be restricted
by the originating agency.
4-403. Reproduced copies of classified
documents are subject to the same ac-
countability and controls as the original
documents.
4-404. Records shall be maintained by
all agencies that reproduce paper copies
of classified documents to show the num-
ber and distribution of reproduced copies
of all Top Secret documents, of all docu-
ments covered by special access programs
distributed outside the originating agency,
and of all Secret and all Confidential
documents which are marked with special
dissemination and reproduction limita-
tions in accordance with Section 1-506.
4-405. Sections 4-401 and 4-402
shall not restrict the production of doc-
uments for the purpose of facilitating re-
vicw for declassification. However, such
reproduced documents that remain clas-
sified after review must be destroyed after
they are used.
SECTION 5. IMPLEMENTATION AND
REVIEW.
5-1. Oversight.
5-101. The National Security Council
may review all matters with respect to the
implementation of this Order and shall
provide overall policy direction for the in-
formation security program.
5-102. The Administrator of General
Services shall be responsible for imple-
menting and monitoring the program
established pursuant to this Order. This
responsibility shall be delegated to an
Information Security Oversight Office.
5-2. Information Security Oversight Of-
fice.
5-201. The Information Security
Oversight Office shall have a full-time
Director appointed by the Administrator
of General Services subject to approval
by the President. The Administrator also
shall have authority to appoint a staff for
the Office.
5-202. The Director shall:
(a) oversee agency actions to ensure
menting directives;
compliance with this Order and imple-
(b) consider and take action on com-
plaints and suggestions from persons with-
in or outside the Government with
respect to the administration of the infor-
mation security program, including ap-
peals from decisions on declassification
requests pursuant to Section 3-503;
(c) exercise the authority to de-
classify information provided by Sections
3-104 and 3-503;
(d) develop, in consultation with the
agencies, and promulgate, subject to the
approval of the National Security Coun-
cil, directives for the implementation of
this Order which shall be binding on the
agencies;
(e) report annually to the President
through the Administrator of General
1204
