June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
resource at my command, including the
veto-to hold the line on the Federal
budget.
Now, all these are good groups, and
it's never pleasant or popular to say no
to a useful program. The budget that was
proposed to the Congress is a bountiful
budget, it's an adequate budget, it's a
Democratic budget. But each of the pro-
posals for increased Federal spending, I
realize, has great appeal. But there comes
a time when a nation must draw the
line. There comes a time when we must
look beyond each narrow interest, no
matter how beneficent it might be, to the
overriding interests of our Nation. And
that time has come.
I'm prepared to draw the line. I will
be the one to say no. I ask you for your
support, even when you have to be the
one to make a sacrifice.
In every way that government can in-
fluence inflation, we will do it-through
reorganization of the Government bu-
reaucracy itself, through civil service re-
form, which I hope the Congress will pass
without delay, through tax reform, and,
wherever possible, for safe and appro-
priate deregulation. I'm personally trying
to make regulation as efficient and eco-
nomical and as minimal as possible.
Together, all these measures together
and others will reduce that portion of
inflation that government has caused and
set an example to help us all stop the rise
in the inflation rate.
But our long-term task is not just to stop
the rise in the inflation rate but to push
the inflation rate back down. We've set a
very specific deceleration target to make
sure that prices and wages rise less each
year than the average for the 2 preceding
years. Inflation, therefore, must be lower
in 1979 than it is in 1978, and lower in
1980 than it will be in 1979.
We've set an example at the Federal
level. We've frozen the salaries of our
senior people and cut the cost-of-living
increase for all other Federal employees
to 52 percent. We're waiting for the
Congress to act on this. I believe they will.
We've asked Governors, mayors, and
others to follow our example.
In every sector of the economy there is
a need to adopt this deceleration stand-
ard each year and, therefore, to make
steady progress. These inflationary pres-
sures have taken many years to develop.
The causes are complicated, difficult to
discern, and multitudinous. They will
take many years to overcome. But we can
overcome them through patient and per-
sistent attack so long as we work together
and exercise mutual restraint, sometimes
mutual sacrifice in our common interest.
The other subject I want to talk about
in closing is energy. And if there is any
applause in the next 5 minutes, I want
you to know that I will consider it the
moral equivalent of hospitality. [Laughter]
If ever we have faced a test of our
national will, it's now. America has lived
high on low-cost energy. We've consumed
ever increasing amounts of oil and gas
at prices well below their replacement
cost. Despite the lessons of 1973, we still
have no national program to bring en-
ergy demand in line with energy supply.
We are the only industrial nation on
Earth that has not cut energy consump-
tion since the OPEC oil embargo. We are
the only industrial nation on Earth with-
out an effective energy plan.
In the last 6 years, our oil imports have
doubled. Americans used more gasoline
last summer than ever before in history.
And this year, we will set another all-
time high for gasoline consumption, and
all this despite the fact that we now have
lighter cars and better gas mileage.
We created with superb congres-
sional work a new Department of En-
ergy, and we've failed to give it the tools
that it needs to do the job. For the past
1170
