Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
Bakalis, I'm running for Governor." I
think that there's got to be a kind of an
interrelationship there and a mutual trust.
There's a foundation for a success, and
I know that you know that Mike Bakalis
will never sit back and say, "Let my
friends do it." He'll be working longer
hours than any of you or any of his staff,
and he'll be studying the sensitivities of
Illinois people and the needs of this State
more than perhaps any of you.
So, in closing I would like to say this:
I'm thankful to you for your generosity
in coming here this morning to help
out a good man. But there's more to it
than that. This is not going to be an easy
campaign.
I know how difficult it is to run against
an incumbent. President Ford was my
opponent. And in spite of the early polls
when Ford and Ronald Reagan were still
fighting each other and each one of their
supporters didn't want to pledge to sup-
port the other, I saw that to run against a
good, sound person who has the aura of
the office is very difficult. But I've got
confidence in Mike that he can win. But
it's not going to be possible for him to do
so if you come here this morning, say “I've
done all I can, I've given a good contri-
bution, let Mike handle the rest."
Every one of you ought to be thinking
now about how you can go back to your
own community and become the core of a
rapidly spreading campaign organization,
kind of a personal campaign manager. It's
important to Illinois. You know how I
feel about this brilliant young man who's
kind of one of the shining new stars on
the political horizon, who has all the
qualifications that I've just described. I
wouldn't say them if I didn't really think
they were true.
I don't think anyone in here would dis-
agree with what I've said about him. Even
his political opponents could not possibly
disagree with what I've said. He would
be a credit to Illinois, and a credit to the
United States of America.
I hope that you and I can help him get
elected.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 a.m. in
the Lincoln Room at the Holiday Inn East. In
his opening remarks he referred to former Illi-
nois Governors Samuel H. Shapiro and Dan
Walker, and the secretary of state of Illinois,
Alan J. Dixon.
Charleston, West Virginia
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for
Senator Jennings Randolph. May 26, 1978
Senator Jennings Randolph, Governor
and Mrs. Rockefeller, Congressman John
Slack and Rahall, distinguished members
of the Jennings Randolph fan club, of
which I am a member:
It's very good to be back in your great
State. I'm following in this beautiful place
one of my favorite performers, Willie Nel-
son, who's perhaps the greatest country
music player in the country, with the pos-
sible exception of the majority leader of
the Senate. [Laughter] And Willie Nelson
represents, in a strange way, the same
thing that Jennings Randolph does. He
sings about average American people,
hopes and dreams and fears and discour-
agements, concerns, questions. He sings
about being homesick, and he sings about
young people who go away and who want
to have an opportunity to go back where
they came from and find a good job and
a sound life. He sings about veterans who
have been in Vietnam and who came
back to a strange world where they were
not adequately appreciated. He sings
about people who are handicapped in dif-
ferent ways-people who are poor, peo-
ple who are not well educated, people
who don't have a strong, loud, demand-
ing voice, and who don't belong to any
organization that's powerful. He sings
999
