Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
and the Attorney General, and produce
and disseminate counterintelligence stud-
ies and reports;
1-1105. Direct, operate, control and
provide fiscal management for the Na-
tional Security Agency and for defense
and military intelligence and national re-
connaissance entities;
1-1106. Conduct, as the executive
agent of the United States Government,
signals intelligence and communications
security activities, except as otherwise di-
rected by the NSC;
1-1107. Provide for the timely trans-
mission of critical intelligence, as defined
by the Director of Central Intelligence,
within the United States Government;
1-1108. Review budget data and in-
formation on Department of Defense
programs within the National Foreign
Intelligence Program and review budgets
submitted by program managers to the
Director of Central Intelligence to ensure
the appropriate relationship of the Na-
tional Foreign Intelligence Program ele-
ments to the other elements of the
Defense program;
1-1109. Monitor, evaluate and conduct
performance audits of Department of
Defense intelligence programs;
1-1110. Carry out or contract for re-
search, development and procurement of
technical systems and devices relating to
authorized intelligence functions;
1-1111. Together with the Director of
Central Intelligence, ensure that there is
no unnecessary overlap between national
foreign intelligence programs and De-
partment of Defense intelligence pro-
grams and provide the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence all information necessary
for this purpose;
1-1112. Protect the security of Depart-
ment of Defense installations, activities,
information and personnel by appro-
priate means including such investiga-
tions of applicants, employees, contrac-
tors and other persons with similar
associations with the Department of
Defense as are necessary; and
1-1113. Conduct such administrative
and technical support activities within
and outside the United States as are neces-
sary to perform the functions described in
sections 1-1101 through 1-1112 above.
1-12. Intelligence Components Utilized
by the Secretary of Defense. In carrying
out the responsibilities assigned in sections
1-1101 through 1-1113, the Secretary of
Defense is authorized to utilize the
following:
1-1201. Defense Intelligence Agency,
whose responsibilities shall include:
(a) Production or, through tasking and
coordination, provision of military and
military-related intelligence for the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
other Defense components, and, as appro-
priate, non-Defense agencies;
(b) Provision of military intelligence
for national foreign intelligence products;
(c) Coordination of all Department of
Defense intelligence collection require-
ments for departmental needs;
(d) Management of the Defense
Attache system; and
(e) Provision of foreign intelligence
and counterintelligence staff support as
directed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
1-1202. National Security Agency
(NSA), whose responsibilities shall
include:
(a) Establishment and operation of an
effective unified organization for signals
intelligence activities, except for the
delegation of operational control over
certain operations that are conducted
through other elements of the Intelligence
Community. No other department or
203
