Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to be the fundamental determinant of the
value of currencies. However, we will not
permit speculative activities in currency
markets to disrupt our economy or those
of our trading partners. We recognize
fully our obligation in this regard, and we
have taken steps to fulfill it.
Although substantial progress can be
made toward a balanced world economy,
some imbalances will persist for a sub-
stantial period of time. Financing require-
ments will remain large while adjustments
occur. The private markets can and
will continue to channel the bulk of the
financing from surplus to deficit coun-
tries. But it is essential that adequate offi-
cial financing also be available, in case of
need, to encourage countries with severe
payments problems to adopt orderly and
responsible corrective measures. To meet
this critical need the United States has
strongly supported a proposal to strength-
en the International Monetary Fund by
the establishment of a new Supplemen-
tary Financing Facility.
The United States also will continue to
contribute resources to promote growth
in the economies of the developing na-
tions. International assistance efforts-
through bilateral aid and multilateral in-
stitutions must continue to expand. We
must also keep our doors open to imports
from developing countries, so that their
economies can grow and prosper through
expanded trade.
A keystone of our international eco-
nomic policy is to work with our trading
partners to protect a free and open trad-
ing system. The American economy bene-
fits by exporting those products that we
make efficiently, and by importing those
that we produce least efficiently. An open
trading system increases our real incomes,
strengthens competition in our markets,
and contributes to combating inflation.
The United States will firmly resist the
demands for protection that inevitably
develop when the world economy suffers
from high unemployment. The ensuing
decline in world trade would worsen our
problem of inflation, create inefficiencies
in American enterprise, and lead to fewer
jobs for American workers. But interna-
tional competition must be fair. We have
already taken and we will, when neces-
sary, continue to take steps to ensure that
our businesses and workers do not suffer
from unfair trade practices.
I place great importance on the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations now under way
in Geneva. I believe our negotiators will
bring home agreements that are fair and
balanced and that will benefit our econ-
omy immensely over the years to come.
The importance of these discussions can
hardly be overemphasized. The trading
system that emerges from the negotiations
will set the tone for international com-
merce well into the 1980s. Our commit-
ment to a successful conclusion to these
talks underscores our long-term empha-
sis on the retention and expansion of open
and fair trade among nations.
THE CHALLENGE BEFORE US
In this message I have outlined my
fundamental economic goals and the
strategy for attaining them. It is an ambi-
tious, but I believe a realistic, agenda for
the future. It calls for a broad range of
actions to improve the health and fairness
of the American economy. And it calls
upon the American people to participate
actively in many of these efforts.
I ask the Congress and the American
people to join with me in a sustained
effort to achieve a lasting prosperity. We
all share the same fundamental goals. We
can work together to reach them.
January 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
144
