May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States-Morocco
Convention on Taxation and
Fiscal Evasion
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. May 2, 1978
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion between the Government of the
United States of America and the King-
dom of Morocco for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of
Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on
Income, signed at Rabat on August 1,
1977.
There is no convention on this subject
presently in force between the United
States and Morocco.
The Convention follows generally the
form and context of most conventions of
this type recently concluded by the
United States. However, it contains some
modifications of the standard provisions
to accommodate the special need of
Morocco as a developing country to mini-
mize any revenue loss. Its primary purpose
is to identify clearly each country's inter-
est in avoiding double taxation and pre-
venting the illegal evasion of taxation.
For the information of the Senate, I
also transmit the report of the Depart-
ment of State on to the Convention.
This Convention would promote closer
economic cooperation and more active
trade between the United States and
Morocco by assuring investors about their
tax liability, reducing the foreign tax in
many cases and providing for cooperation
between the two countries to avoid double
taxation.
I urge the Senate to act quickly on this
Convention and to give its advice and
consent to ratification.
The White House,
May 2, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Federal Council on the Aging
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. May 2, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith the annual
report of the Federal Council on Aging
in accordance with Section 205 (f) of the
Older Americans Act (P.L. 93-29).
As you know, the Council was created
by the Congress to represent older Ameri-
cans and make recommendations to the
President, the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare,
the Commissioner of the Administration
on Aging, and the Congress on Federal
policies regarding the aging and federally
conducted or assisted programs and other
activities relating to or affecting them.
This report describes the Council's con-
cerns and projects as well as specific ad-
vocacy positions taken by the Council on
Federal policies and programs affecting
the elderly.
In my first year in office, the Council
has been of great assistance in their unan-
imous support of strengthened financ-
ing of the social security system. As you
know the Congress acted expeditiously to
enact the 1977 Social Security Act amend-
ments which I signed into law December
20, 1977. These measures will serve to
assure a secure income for many older
Americans in future years. I hope that
the Congress will act this year on the
Better Jobs and Income Act in response
to the Council's earnest desire for the
early enactment of welfare reform which
affects many areas of "vital concern to
older Americans."
While the Council recognizes that all
of the concerns expressed in the report
cannot be fully dealt with in the imme-
diate future, I look forward to a con-
tinued close working relationship with the
Council as evidenced by my appointment
818
