Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 22
We share Israel's pride in this milestone.
Israel's achievements are uniquely its
own, a mixture of high idealism, ingenu-
ity, and self-reliance. Americans have al-
ways found an echo of our own frontier
past in Israel's energy and its strong
individualism.
Thirty years ago, Israel was born into
uncertainty and a threatening future.
Since that time, Israel has suffered more
hardship and tragedy than most nations
must endure in a century. Yet today,
Israel stands as a powerful nation, fiercely
independent and determined to forge its
own political destiny.
The Israel of 1978 is strong and more
secure militarily than at any time in its
history. We in America take satisfaction
in the knowledge that we have contrib-
uted in some small measure to the realiza-
tion of that dream of strength. We have
stood beside Israel from the earliest mo-
ments of its birth, and there we shall con-
tinue to stand.
This visit by Prime Minister Begin has
had only one purpose, to explore the ways
in which we can build our past coopera-
tion into a true partnership for peace.
In
the course of these meetings, Prime Min-
ister Begin and I have had an opportunity
to review in considerable detail the pres-
ent situation and our progress to date on
a comprehensive settlement of the Middle
East conflict.
As always, these discussions have been
detailed and frank, as is to be expected
from two partners in the peace process.
I have reviewed for Prime Minister
Begin my recent discussions with Presi-
dent Sadat. And I have shared with him
my assessment of what will be required to
regain momentum in the common search
for peace.
I emphasized to him the importance of
reaffirming that all of the principles of
Security Council Resolution 242 must ap-
ply to all fronts if peace negotiations are
to succeed.
In the past few months, we have had a
glimpse of what a peaceful future might
hold. We have come to appreciate what
it can mean in terms of human contact,
direct contact, and liberation from the
dangerous, self-defeating patterns of the
past.
As Prime Minister Begin returns home,
he will carry with him our hopes and our
dreams for a future free of the bitterness
and violence of the past generation.
We know that he faces both a challenge
and an opportunity-the challenge of
providing security for his people, and the
opportunity to achieve that security
through a true and enduring peace. It is
our conviction that this opportunity must
not be allowed to slip into the cycle of
hatred and violence which has character-
ized the history of the Middle East for the
past 30 years and which we have wit-
nessed again over the last 2 weeks.
We pray with him that all peoples of
the Middle East will come to realize that
another generation must not be allowed
to grow up learning only war and despair.
Prime Minister Begin does not return
alone to his own country. He carries with
him our deepest hopes and prayers. We
stand with him as he faces the challenges
and the opportunities of Israel's great
dream.
At this historic moment, when peace
still seems far away, we rely on the vision
and the humanity of a great people, born
of great suffering, to triumph once again.
In this mission, Prime Minister Begin
carries with him the good wishes and the
constant support of all the people of the
United States.
Mr. Prime Minister, we wish you
Godspeed.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
I thank you wholeheartedly for the good
551
