Jan. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
interests would be protected. And instead
of having the constant threat of disrup-
tion by dissident groups who acted con-
trary to the interests of the Panamanian
Government, we would be operating as
partners in cooperation to make sure the
canal is open, free for our use, for Pan-
ama ships' use, and for the use of the
ships from all around the world. That's
the world. That's
what we want.
DR. LUCAS. Mr. President, we are told
that we have time for one more question.
This one is asked by Ricky Dyson. What
assurance do we have that if we sign the
treaty, Panama will not become hostile
toward the United States? If this hap-
pens, can we recapture and operate the
canal in a state of guerrilla warfare?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, the
best way to guarantee the friendship of
Panama, its government and its people,
is to carry out our part of the negotiating
bargain in good faith and to ratify the
treaties that have been agreed between us
and them.
It's obvious to me that anyone who
wanted to disrupt the friendship between
ourselves and Panama, between ourselves
and all the Latin American countries, be-
tween ourselves and the rest of the de-
veloping world, would be very much in
favor of the treaties being rejected. If we
reject the treaties and go back on the ne-
gotiating principles that we've espoused
for the last, as I say, 14 years, this would
be a good opening for outside agitating
groups, the Communists from perhaps
Cuba or other countries or the few Com-
munists that might be in Panama or in
our country, to take advantage of this
temporary absence of harmony and go in
and create dissension.
So, the best way to ensure friendship
between us and Panama and the best way
to ensure the advantages of ourselves and
that small country as well, the best way
to keep the canal open for ourselves and
the use of other ships is to go ahead and
ratify the treaties that we have negotiated
in good faith and which the Panamanians
have already ratified and also voted for
in a plebiscite. That is what we ought to
do. That's what we, I believe, will do.
DR. LUCAS. Mr. President, thank you
for talking with us this evening, and we
would be honored to have you visit us
here.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it would be a
great pleasure. As you know, Mississippi
has a special place in my heart. I flew back
from Minneapolis just a few minutes ago
with Senator Eastland, and I'll always
remember the warmth with which the
Mississippi people took me in during the
campaign. And I'll never forget that late
evening vote when I finally was elected
President of the United States, and the
State that put me over the top was Mis-
sissippi.
So, thanks to all my friends in Missis-
sippi. And I believe we've got a good
canal agreement negotiated, and I hope
and expect that it will be ratified.
Thank you very much.
DR. LUCAS. Good night, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:15 p.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to the meet-
ing in Burnett Auditorium at the University of
Southern Mississippi. Aubrey Lucas is president
of the university.
The meeting in Hattiesburg was one of a
series of six town hall debates held around the
country as part of the "Great Decisions" pro-
gram of the Foreign Policy Association.
Consumer Product Safety
Commission
Nomination of Three Commissioners.
January 17, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Susan B. King and Edith B.
84
