Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 20, 1978
United States-Japan Trade
Agreement
White House Statement. January 13, 1978
The President is pleased by the
agreement reached between Ambassadors
Strauss and Ushiba on behalf of the U.S.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
January 13, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, I want
to welcome you all here and let you know
that it's very good for me to have a
and Japanese Governments regarding chance to meet on these fairly frequent
trade and other economic issues of com-
mon concern. The President believes that
the agreed measures constitute a prom-
ising development in the two countries'
efforts to strengthen economic relations;
he is gratified at the provision for fol-
lowup meetings to discuss both imple-
mentation of this agreement and further
progress.
This agreement should strengthen the
bonds of friendship between the two
countries, underlining their will and abil-
ity to cooperate with each other and with
other nations in devising common actions
to meet common problems. The President
is gratified at the role played by Prime
Minister Fukuda in helping to bring
about this outcome. He looks forward to
working in concert with the Prime Min-
ister in regard to continuing efforts to
promote a healthy world economy.
occasions with editors and other news
leaders from around the Nation. I'll out-
line just a few things that are going on
right now that might be of interest to you
and spend what time we have available
answering your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We've now concluded a very good
agreement with the South Koreans and
with Tongsun Park and his lawyer for a
very thorough discussion with him on the
record, without any constraints, even with
lie detector confirmation of his veracity,
and without any prohibition against fu-
committees, which I think is very satis-
ture interrogations by the congressional
factory.
This has been an unpleasant inter-
relationship between ourselves and the
South Korean Government because of the
sensitivity of this issue. But I've always
kept in mind how important our good
67
