May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
constraints on the American public or
government. It gives us a framework by
which we can plan together to continue to
bring down an unemployment rate that
has been improved but which is still too
high.
SOVIET POLICIES AND SALT
Q. Mr. President, Frank Cormier, As-
sociated Press. Former President Ford sug-
gested today there should be an interrela-
tionship between progress on the SALT
and Soviet willingness to show restraint in
Africa. Do you agree with this position?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I read President
Ford's statement that he made today, and
I think that his analysis is that we ought
not necessarily to let Soviet action in other
areas interfere with the progress of SALT.
But he pointed out, and I agree, that un-
less the Soviets do honor the constraints
on basic human rights, unless they also
honor constraints on their involvement in
places like Africa, that it will have a
strong adverse effect on our country and
make it much more difficult to sell to the
American people and to have ratification
in Congress of a SALT agreement if it
should be negotiated between me and
Brezhnev and those who work under us.
So, I never have favored the establish-
ment by me or Brezhnev of a linkage be-
tween the two, saying that if the Soviets
and the Cubans stay in Ethiopia, for in-
stance, we would cancel the SALT talks. I
think that the SALT agreement is so im-
portant for our country, for the safety of
the entire world, that we ought not to let
any impediment come between us and the
reaching of a successful agreement. But
there is no doubt that if the Soviets con-
tinue to abuse human rights, to punish
people who are monitoring the Soviets'
compliance with the Helsinki agreement,
which they signed on their own free will,
and unless they show some constraints on
their own involvement in Africa and on
their sending Cuban troops to be involved
in Africa, it will make it much more diffi-
cult to conclude a SALT agreement and
to have it ratified once it is written.
Q. Mr. President, Wes Pippert, UPI.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll get you next, Wes.
Let me get-
ILLINOIS MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Dick Kay, WMAQ-
TV. One of the Democratic candidates
you are here in Chicago to campaign for,
Alex Seith, says Illinois will be crucial to
you for reelection in 1980, that your popu-
larity is on the wane here, and that one
thing hurting it is the possibility of closing
at least three bases in Illinois-Fort Sheri-
dan, Great Lakes Naval Station, and
Chanute Air Force Base. I wonder, sir, if
you are going to have any private con-
versations with local Democratic officials
to heat up the relationship, so to speak,
and if you have any comment on the pos-
sibility of those bases staying open?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have to say
that I flew from Washington to Chicago
on Air Force One with several members of
the Illinois delegation, I think almost all
the Democrats. They very quickly
brought up this subject and discussed it
thoroughly with me. And I have already
had a chance to discuss this with Mayor
Bilandic on the way in from the airport
and with Adlai Stevenson, the Senator,
who was with us also.
There's no doubt that if, say, these
three major bases were closed under my
administration, it would be a severe politi-
cal blow to me. I think it's accurate to
point out, though, that we'll make the
decision in the final analysis not on the
basis of political considerations, but on the
basis of what's best for the national
defense of our country now and, prospec-
tively, in the future. The fact that these
bases are on a potential list to be assessed
has no significance at all.
For instance, if we have three major
Marine recruit training facilities in our
974
