Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 14
duce indictments, whether they're called
for or not, simply to prove that he did
his job?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it may or may
not be a Democrat. I don't think that's
been decided. I'm repeating substantially
what the Attorney General has said. I
never heard of Mr. Marston until just
recently.
We have literally dozens of these ap-
pointments all over the Nation. And the
Attorney General generally works out the
decision whether to replace the incum-
bent and, if so, you know, whom to choose
as a replacement.
He decided, apparently last March,
that Mr. Marston ought to be replaced. I
don't think it's a responsibility of the
President to outline to the public the rea-
sons that the Attorney General did not
think Mr. Marston ought to stay there.
I have no inclination to criticize him or
any other person that is being replaced.
that is being replaced.
Because there were ongoing investiga-
tions, the Attorney General decided not
to make the change immediately. The
Pennsylvania congressional delegation-
I think, to be honest, the Democrats
there finally came to me because of the
delay. Once a decision was made, they
thought in order to get rid of a very seri-
ous political dispute that kept going on,
that the Attorney General ought to name
his successor.
At that time, I still didn't know who
Mr. Marston was, but I relayed the con-
gressional concerns to the Attorney Gen-
eral. He replied to me that he had long
ago decided to replace Mr. Marston and
that he was determined to make that re-
placement on the basis of merit only and
requested that the Democratic Members
of Congress not become involved in try-
ing to help choose a successor, to let him
do it on strictly a basis of merit. And I
said that's what I would like to do.
The congressional Members assured
me that although some of them in the
past had recommended persons to take
that job, that they would withdraw from
that process and let the Attorney General
do it, because of the controversy, appar-
ently, that was surrounding this case in
Philadelphia, that they would just get out
of it and let the Attorney General make
it.
I don't have any doubt that the Attor-
ney General will make an excellent selec-
tion. I think he would have without the
publicity. Now, it's incumbent on him to
make sure that when the choice is made
and the announcement is made-I make
the final approval that there's a sigh of
relief and a general consensus, assess-
ment, that this replacement for Mr.
Marston is indeed highly qualified.
We're not ignorant about who-among
what group the choice will be made. The
Attorney General has been checking with
the top members of the bar, the judges in
that area, and so forth, to make sure that
the people that he is now considering are
all highly qualified.
It's a slow, tedious process. After he
decides whom he wants-and he has not
yet told me whom he will recommend-
but after he decides then the FBI has to
do a long, tedious check to make sure
that there's nothing in the person's back-
ground that might cause embarrassment.
We're going through the same process
on a number of other appointments. The
FBI Director is one of the most impor-
tant. I've just done the same thing, as
you know, to choose a Chairman of the
Federal Reserve Board. It's one of the
time-consuming responsibilities that I
have.
But I'm positive that there will be no
distortion of the attitude or commitment
to prosecute, or to decide whether or not
to prosecute, by the replacement for Mr.
Marston. There are about 40 attorneys
77
