Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Conventional Arms
Transfer Policy
Statement by the President.
February 1, 1978
The United States Government, the
executive branch and the Congress, are
pledged to bring about a reduction in the
trade in conventional arms. Last year, I
promised to begin reducing U.S. arms
sales as a necessary first step. I will con-
tinue that policy this year.
In the last fiscal year, the previous ad-
ministration and my administration made
sales commitments totaling many billions
of dollars. While high, however, the total
was considerably less than it would have
been in the absence of new restraints we
introduced, particularly in sales commit-
ments to the developing countries of the
world. Between January 20 and the close
of the fiscal year, I approved and sent to
Congress arms sales totaling $5.7 billion,
which is less than half the total approved
during the same period in 1976.
Today, I am announcing that arms
transfer agreements covered by the ceiling
which I have established will be reduced
by $740 million in fiscal year 1978. This
means that for the fiscal year which began
on October 1, 1977, and which will end on
September 30, 1978, new commitments
under the Foreign Military Sales and Mil-
itary Assistance programs for weapons and
weapons-related items to all countries ex-
cept NATO, Japan, Australia, and New
Zealand will not exceed $8.6 billion. The
comparable figure for fiscal year 1977 was
$9.3 billion. This is a reduction of 8 per-
cent, figured on constant fiscal year 1976
dollars.
A larger cut in the ceiling would violate
commitments already made, including our
historic interest in the security of the Mid-
dle East, and would ignore the continuing
realities of world politics and risk the con-
fidence and security of those nations with
whom the United States has vital and
shared foreign policy and security inter-
ests. A smaller reduction would neglect
our responsibility to set an example of
restraint that others might follow.
I intend to make further reductions
in the next fiscal year. The extent of next
year's reduction will depend upon the
world political situation and upon the de-
gree of cooperation and understanding of
other nations.
I want to emphasize that the restraint
policy I announced on May 19, 1977, was
not aimed exclusively at the volume of
arms transfers. Equally important is re-
straint in the sophistication of arms being
transferred and on the spreading capabil-
ity to produce armaments. Therefore, in
addition to the ceiling, I established five
specific controls applicable to all transfers
except those to our NATO allies, Japan,
Australia, and New Zealand. These con-
trols included: (1) a control on the first
introduction of certain advanced systems
into an area; (2) a prohibition on ad-
vanced systems for export only; (3) a pro-
hibition on various types of coproduction
arrangements; (4) tighter controls on re-
transfer; and (5) special controls on sales
promotions.
These guidelines are at the heart of my
decisions to approve or disapprove an
arms transfer.
As I stated in my October 4 speech to
the United Nations, genuine progress in
this area will require multilateral efforts.
But we are committed to taking the first
steps alone to stop the spiral of increasing
arms transfers. I call upon suppliers and
recipients alike to join us in a determined
effort to make the world a safer place in
which to live.
256
