Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 31
penditures are for conventional, not nu-
clear, forces.
We must prepare to fight more effec-
tively together as an alliance. We must
markedly improve our ability to work to-
gether on the battlefield. We should over-
come unnecessary duplication in our na-
tional programs, thus buying more secu-
rity for the same money.
That is what the Long-Term Defense
Program is all about. It is an unprece-
dented attempt by NATO to look across
a longer span of years than ever before.
It seeks a more cooperative course, as the
only sensible way to improve our defenses
without unnecessary increases in defense
spending. It lays out specific measures of
Alliance cooperation. It is the blueprint
we need, and we must carry it out vigor-
ously.
Of course, each of us depends on legis-
lative approval for particular programs
and projects within the Long-Term De-
fense Program. Because we lead democ-
racies, we cannot bind our people by fiat.
We can, however, pledge to do what is
necessary to secure this approval and
make this program work.
The United States is already respond-
ing to many Long-Term Defense Pro-
gram recommendations, particularly in
the field of reinforcement. And the rec-
ommendations will receive the highest
priority in our own national defense pro-
graming. In short, we will do our part
in adapting or modifying U.S. programs
to support the NATO Long-Term De-
fense Program. I am confident that you
will take similar action.
Finally, I want to mention the one re-
maining unresolved aspect of the Long-
Term Defense Program. Although the
program calls for new and unprecedented
Alliance cooperation, no procedures have
yet been devised for ensuring that it is
carried out. We must avoid bold pro-
grams heartily endorsed-then largely
ignored. The report before us directs the
Secretary General to present for national
review what changes are essential for
vigorous followthrough.
Both the NATO Task Forces and we
Americans have made several specific
proposals to this end. For example, we
favor explicitly recognizing NATO's new
focus on logistics. One way is to create a
new Assistant Secretary General for
Logistics. We also favor clear assignment
of responsibility for each program to one
NATO body. Where appropriate, we
would prefer a major NATO command.
But I do not ask that you discuss our pro-
posals today. Instead, I ask that all Alli-
ance leaders here today to join me in call-
ing for vigorous followthrough of the
program.
In conclusion, let me state that we con-
front a unique opportunity to bring our
national defense programs closer together.
The result will be a more effective de-
fense. The consequences will be greater
security for our people. It is our respon-
sibility not to let this opportunity pass.
NOTE: The President spoke at the morning
session, which began at approximately 9:30
a.m. in the Loy Henderson Conference Room
at the State Department.
Later in the day, the President attended
a luncheon with the heads of delegation and
the final session of the summit meeting, both
held at the State Department.
Meeting With President António
dos Santos Ramalho Eanes
of Portugal
White House Statement. May 31, 1978
President Carter and the President of
the Republic of Portugal, General Eanes,
met this noon to discuss a wide range of
political, economic, and security issues in
1021
