Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
question in the context of our overall se-
curity requirements for the next decade.
We must assure that our force planning
and arms control strategies serve the same
purpose. In seeking to reduce tensions
and to build a more stable peace, the alli-
ance should continue to give high priority
to the mutual and balanced force reduc-
tion talks in Vienna.
We believe our negotiating proposals
would lead to a more stable military situ-
ation in Central Europe, with lower force
levels on both sides.
We in the alliance are prepared to be
flexible in seeking progress toward a bal-
anced outcome that protects our interests.
But serious interest in moving the talks
forward cannot be one sided. We look for
an equal commitment and contribution
toward progress in the talks from the
Warsaw Pact states.
Lastly, as allies, we must continue to
promote our strength in other areas-eco-
nomic, political, social, moral. It is pre-
cisely when the challenge to democracy is
greatest that our leaders must most firmly
resist nondemocratic solutions.
I have every confidence that the na-
tions of the alliance, and NATO itself,
will be more than equal to these tasks.
I return to the United States confident
of the prospects for a peaceful world
which respects human rights; I know that
the security of our alliance is the rock on
which that hope is built.
NOTE: The meeting began at approximately
4:35 p.m. in the Conference Room at NATO
Headquarters.
During his visit to the Headquarters, the
President met with Joseph M. A. H. Luns,
Secretary General of NATO, and Gen. Alex-
ander M. Haig, Jr., Supreme Allied Commander
of Europe.
The text of the remarks was released at
Brussels, Belgium.
Brussels, Belgium
Remarks Following the Meeting of the North
Atlantic Council. January 6, 1978
SECRETARY GENERAL LUNS. Ladies and
gentlemen, the President.
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the
briefest speeches that you've ever made,
Secretary General Luns. And I want to
say almost equally briefly that the NATO
alliance is one that's precious to the
American people. Our involvement in it
is supported almost unanimously in our
country.
I've been deeply gratified at the re-
surgence of commitment and tangible
support for NATO military strength
among all the members of the alliance.
I gave them a detailed report about the
progress that we are making in our ne-
gotiations with the Soviet Union on a
wide range of subjects.
We want to understand the East-West
relationship and to alleviate any poten-
tial tensions. Our commitment is not to
war, it's to peace. We believe that the
best way to preserve peace and to pre-
serve those ideals and commitments,
human rights of the Western allies is
dependent upon the military capability
which we exhibit. I pointed out to them
the suffering that has taken place in Eu-
rope by our forces and those of our other
allies in previous wars, and the fact that
we never want to see this happen again,
and that a close support and a constant
commitment to mutual defense is the
best way to prevent additional war.
I gave the ambassadors, the Secretary
General, and the military officials an up-
38
