Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
now to take steps in other areas in sup-
port of the change in South Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We have had a
very thorough discussion not only be-
tween myself and General Obasanjo and
his Ministers (Foreign),¹ but yesterday
we had a foreign-level discussion with
other nations, including the frontline
countries around Rhodesia.
We now will move as quickly as possi-
ble to call together the parties who are
in dispute concerning Zimbabwe, those
who are identified as a patriotic front,
the frontline nations who surround Rho-
desia, and also the parties to the internal
settlement-Smith, Muzorewa, Sithole,
and Chirau.
We will begin now to explore the earli-
est date when this might be accomplished.
We and the British will act as hosts, and
we will, of course, encourage United Na-
tions participation as well.
In the case of Namibia, the five-nation
group operating as a committee of the
United Nations Security Council—these
are the permanent committee members
in the Security Council that I have named
earlier, the Western members—will con-
tact the South Africans to put forward
our proposal and also to contact the
SWAPO leaders.
The frontline president, then the Ni-
gerian leaders will be in contact with Sam
Nujoma, who is head of the SWAPO
group. So, in these two major areas of
dispute, Zimbabwe and Namibia, we will
expedite our action at the urging of and
with the cooperation of the Nigerian
officials.
In the case of the Horn of Africa, Ni-
geria has long played a leading role, has
been chairman of the subcommittee-
under the Organization of African
Unity for the Horn of Africa, and they
have begun now to make attempts to get
the Ethiopians and the Somalians to meet,
1 Printed in the transcript.
to make permanent the peace that has
been established in recent weeks, in re-
cent days.
We also hope that there will be an
avoidance of bloodshed as it relates to
the Eritreans. So, I think in these three
major areas, we have reached a common
purpose. And so far as I know, there are
no remaining differences between myself
and General Obasanjo.
Q. At what level will this Rhodesian
meeting be?
THE PRESIDENT. At the Foreign Secre-
tary level. The plans are that Secretary
Vance and, perhaps, David Owen from
Britain would be present and in person.
VALUE OF THE DOLLAR
Q. Mr. President, did you reach an
agreement with General Obasanjo about
stabilizing the dollar?
THE PRESIDENT. I wish that General
Obasanjo and I could act on a bilateral
basis to completely stabilize the dollar.
The dollar is a very sound currency. It is
based primarily upon the economy of the
United States, which is strong, growing
stronger.
There are several factors that will tend
to increase the value of the dollar this
year. Our imports of oil will be level this
year. They were increasing rapidly last
year, which was a bad factor last year.
The interest rates in our country are
higher now than they were before, which
will encourage additional investment in
our country, which will also help the
dollar.
We need very urgently to have the
Congress of the United States act on my
proposals concerning the comprehensive
energy policy. This will stabilize the dol-
lar, and the prospects for that success in
the Congress are good. And I believe that
there is a general feeling that our economy
will continue to grow at about the same
rate that it did last year.
653
