Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 3
was a member of the National Security
Council senior staff, and from 1963 to
1965, he lectured at George Washington
University again.
In 1974 and 1975, Saunders was Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary of State for Near
Eastern and South Asian Affairs. Since
1975 he has been Director of the Bureau
of Intelligence and Research at the State
Department.
Permanent Joint Board on
Defense-United States and
Canada
Appointment of Thomas E. Morgan as
Chairman of the U.S. Section. March 3, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of Thomas E. Morgan as
Chairman of the U.S. Section of the
Permanent Joint Board on Defense-
United States and Canada. Morgan, of
Fredericktown, Pa., replaces Charles S.
Gubser, resigned.
Morgan was born October 13, 1906,
in Ellsworth, Pa. He received an M.D.
from Wayne University in 1934.
Morgan practiced medicine and sur-
gery in Fredericktown from 1934 to 1973.
In 1944 he was elected to the 79th Con-
gress, and he was reelected to each suc-
ceeding Congress until his retirement in
January 1977.
Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe
White House Statement on the Belgrade
Review Conference. March 3, 1978
The President today congratulated
Justice Goldberg and the U.S. Delegation
to the Belgrade Review Conference of
CSCE on their successful work during
the past few months. The President is
particularly gratified that the delegation
has worked in close harmony with the
U.S. Commission on Security and
Cooperation in Europe, chaired by Rep-
resentative Fascell, cochaired by Senator
Claiborne Pell, and including both con-
gressional and administration members.
The United States has achieved its
basic goals at the Belgrade Conference,
which will conclude its work next week:
-we conducted a full and frank re-
view of the implementation of the
Helsinki Final Act in all of its
aspects. This included detailed dis-
cussion of human rights, including
specific country-performance and in-
dividual cases. Human rights has
now been firmly inscribed as a legiti-
mate and proper concern on the
agenda of international discussion;
-we maintained unity among the
NATO allied states;
-we have worked with other nations
to ensure that the process of security
and cooperation in Europe, begun
at Helsinki, will continue at Madrid
in 2 years time;
-we took all of these steps in a spirit
of seeking to enlarge the possibilities
for cooperation among all the 35
states represented at Belgrade, and
we will agree to the final document
only to permit this process to con-
tinue.
Following the achievement of these
basic goals at CSCE, we also presented,
with our allies, a number of specific new
proposals, designed to make more effec-
tive the implementation of the Helsinki
Final Act. Regrettably, the Soviet Union
was not prepared to engage in a serious
discussion of new proposals leading to
agreement among the 35 states taking
part. Nor, under the consensus procedure
followed at Belgrade, was the Soviet
Union prepared to agree to a final docu-
453
