Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
an appreciation for human beings; some-
one who is sensitive about others; some-
one who epitomizes the essence of what
we all believe the Democratic Party is;
and someone who can make the masculine
reference to love be sincerely meaningful;
and someone who in such a short time
can become one's closest friend-and
that's the way I feel about Tip O'Neill.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. in
the Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
The transcript of the remarks was released
on February 8.
Financial Assistance for Higher
Education
Remarks Announcing the Administration
Proposal. February 8, 1978
This morning I and the Secretary of
HEW, Joe Califano, and several of the
key leaders of Congress have a very im-
portant announcement to make.
Today the cost of sending a son or
daughter to college is an increasingly seri-
ous burden on America's low- and middle-
income families. From 1967 to 1976, in
just a 10-year period, the cost of college
education increased 77 percent. This year
the average bill for tuition, room, and
board in a private college is more than
$4,800, and at a typical public university
a student would have to pay $2,500 per
year for education-related costs.
Increasingly, middle-income families,
not just the lower income families, are
being stretched to their financial limits by
these new and growing costs of a univer-
sity or college education. No one should be
denied the opportunity for a college edu-
cation for financial reasons alone. And
our Nation has long recognized our ob-
ligation to help lower income families in
this educational area.
Now we must increasingly take steps to
help middle-income families as well. This
is why I am proposing and announcing
today a $1.46 billion increase in the as-
sistance that the Federal Government pro-
vides to help with these growing costs,
bringing our total student assistance
budget to $5.2 billion for fiscal year 1979.
We are proposing additional scholarship
grants, more part-time jobs for students,
and more loans, primarily focused on
students from moderate- and middle-in-
come families.
About $900 million will provide tuition
grants to students from families with in-
comes up to $25,000; $70 million will pro-
vide expanded eligibility for guaranteed
loans for families in the $16,000 to $45,-
000 income range; and $150 million to
provide part-time jobs to college students.
We estimate that more than 5 million
college students nationwide will receive
financial assistance from the Federal Gov-
ernment in fiscal year 1979, an increase of
at least 2 million students over the current
year.
The coordinated program that I am
proposing, using grants, work study, and
loans, will provide more real help than
any tax credit and is a far more equitable
and efficient way to help middle-income
families with tuition and other college
costs.
Tuition tax credits would provide ben-
efits to those who do not need them and
almost certainly would cost more than
the carefully targeted measures that we
are proposing today.
Congress must choose between tuition
tax credits and the far more beneficial in-
creases in Federal student assistance pro-
grams that I am requesting. This Nation
cannot afford-and I will not accept-
both.
Secretary Califano and I have worked
very closely with congressional leaders in
developing this program. Senators Wil-
288
