Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
in 1973. Oil imports have doubled in the
last 6 years.
In 1977, we imported $10 billion more
oil than we did the year before. And we
have not yet come to grips with one of
the greatest and most complicated chal-
lenges that any government has ever
faced. We must conserve scarce energy.
We must provide adequate incentives
for increased exploration and increased
American production. And we must
search out also alternatives, permanent
alternatives, to the depleting fossil fuels
on which we are so heavily dependent.
The present energy policy of our coun-
try encourages consumption; it discour-
ages exploration and production. The
Congress so far has made good progress;
they've been dealing with this question
now since April of 1977. And I look for-
ward to this chance today and tonight
and tomorrow to discuss these two major
issues with you and others-agriculture,
trade, exports, inflation, and how they
are tied in directly with the energy
question.
This is a job, the Presidency of the
United States, that is sometimes lonely.
I represent what our Nation is to other
people around the world. And it grieves
me at times not to be able to put forward
a demonstration of accomplishment, a
willingness for us to deal with those cru-
cial questions that are of importance to
us all. I've had remarkable cooperation
from Jim Wright, Lloyd Bentsen, the
congressional delegation, other Members
of the Congress, in this first 17 months.
In spite of the transient concerns that
we have about unemployment, which is
improving, inflation, which is still a seri-
ous question, our Nation is still strong,
able, dedicated, idealistic. It's solid in its
permanent commitment to the ideals that
have made our country great.
We stand for something all over the
world-decency, freedom, democracy, hu-
man rights, growth, vigor-and as long
as I'm in the White House, I'll repre-
sent you in these commitments.
I'd like to close by saying this: Every
time I've ever come to Texas, every time
my wife or my family have ever come
to Texas, even in those months long ago
when I was a lonely candidate whom very
few people knew or cared about, we have
not only been well received with typical
Texas hospitality, but you've given me
a chance to speak my piece, to make my
views be known, and you showed con-
fidence in me. I thank you for it.
I feel personally a compatibility with
the people of Texas. We share a lot, and
as President of the United States, I feel
a great compatibility with what you are,
people who believe in patriotism in its
finest form, people who have shown in
the past an ability to provide great leader-
ship, with Lyndon Baines Johnson and
many others, and those who are always
willing to face the future, not with fear
or timidity or trepidation, but with cour-
age, anticipation, and confidence that our
great Nation and your great State will be
even greater in the years to come.
Thank you very much.
And now, I'd like to answer some
questions.
QUESTIONS
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Hal Ray,
Jr., and I'm from Wichita Falls. Your
National Security Adviser, Mr. Brzezin-
ski, and Secretary of State Vance seem to
have differing views on the United States
relations with the Soviet Union. Would
you tell us what you think of the relation-
ship between our two nations and the
seeming to be cooling off attitude between
us and the Russians?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I'd like to say
first of all that there is an overwhelming
cooperation and compatibility between
Secretary Vance, Dr. Brzezinski, Harold
1159
