Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
less in 1978 than they did on average
during the past two years.
I recognize that not all wages and
prices can be expected to decelerate at the
same pace. For example, where profit
margins have been particularly squeezed,
or where wages are lagging seriously, de-
celeration in 1978 would be less than for
other firms or groups of workers. In ex-
ceptional cases deceleration may not be
possible at all. Conversely, firms or groups
that have done exceptionally well in the
recent past may be expected to do more.
To enhance the prospects for success
of this deceleration program, I have asked
that major firms and unions respond to
requests from members of my Adminis-
tration to discuss with them on an infor-
mal basis steps that can be taken during
the coming year to achieve deceleration
in their industries. In reviewing the eco-
nomic situation prior to making my rec-
ommendations to the Congress on the size
of the pay raise for Federal workers, due
to take effect next October, I will keep
this objective of deceleration in mind.
This program does not establish a uni-
form set of numerical standards against
which each price or wage action is to be
measured. The past inflation has intro-
duced too many distortions into the econ-
omy to make that possible or desirable.
But it does establish a standard of be-
havior for each industry for the coming
year: every effort should be made to re-
duce the rate of wage and price increase
in 1978 to below the average rate of the
past two years.
I have chosen this approach after re-
viewing extensively all of the available
options. There is no guarantee that es-
tablishing a voluntary deceleration stand-
ard will unwind the current inflation. I
believe, however, that with the coopera-
tion of business and labor, this proposal
will work. Deceleration is a feasible
standard of behavior, for it seeks re-
straint in wage and price actions in ex-
change for a general reduction in infla-
tion. It is also a fair standard. Industries
and workers with far different histories
and current situations will not be asked
to fit within the constraint of a single
numerical guideline.
The inflation problem will not be easy
to overcome. It will take time and pa-
tience. But the importance of these efforts
cannot be overestimated. Unless we gain
better control over the inflation rate, the
prospects for regaining a fully employed
economy will be seriously reduced. My
Administration cannot and will not pur-
sue policies in the future that threaten
to trigger a new and more virulent round
of inflation in this country. To do so
would be the surest way of destroying the
hopes of our citizens for a long-lasting
prosperity.
INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC
POLICIES
THAT PROMOTE ECONOMIC RECOVERY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Outside the United States, the world
economy has seen a hesitant recovery
from the deep recession of 1974-75. The
rapid pace of economic growth that was
widespread over most of the postwar
years has all but disappeared. Unemploy-
ment is high, and in most industrial
countries except the United States it is
rising. Inflation is at high levels and de-
clining only very slowly.
The imbalances in the international
economic system continue to strain the
world economy. Because of the surpluses
of oil-exporting countries, many countries
have sizable deficits, including the United
States. Some industrial nations are also
running large and persistent surpluses-
thus increasing the pressures on countries
142
