Feb. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and permanent, and we have the same
feeling toward Poland.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:32 p.m. at
the reception held for Polish American leaders
of business, labor, educational, civic, and reli-
gious organizations in the East Room at the
White House. Following his remarks, concert
pianist Mieczyslaw Horszowski performed at
the reception.
Legislation for the Relief of
Antoinette Slovik
Announcement of the President's Support
for the Legislation. February 6, 1978
President Carter today informed leaders
of several Polish American groups that he
supports legislation pending in Congress
to provide relief to Mrs. Antoinette Slovik,
the widow of Private Eddie Slovik. Private
Slovik was the only member of the Armed
Forces executed for desertion during
World War II.
The President's decision in no way con-
dones the act of desertion. Rather it is a
response to the unique nature of the sit-
uation and to Mrs. Slovik's personal
plight. This case differs from all others,
including those in which servicemen died
by causes other than execution while in
desertion status. The President does not
believe that special legislation would be
appropriate in such other cases.
The President reached his decision fol-
lowing a personal appeal from Senate Ma-
jority Leader Robert Byrd and after the
Justice Department advised that the Pres-
ident has no independent authority to
assist Mrs. Slovik. The White House re-
quested Justice's views following last
year's determination by the Department
of the Army that Private Slovik's punish-
ment had been lawfully imposed.
Congressman Rangel has introduced in
the House the legislation which the Presi-
dent supports. The bill would grant Mrs.
Slovik an amount equal to the proceeds
of her husband's National Service Life In-
surance Policy, plus interest-a total of
$70,000. Present law prohibits the grant-
ing of such benefits to the survivors of
servicemen who die following desertion or
who are lawfully executed. The bill has
not yet been introduced in the Senate.
Red Cross Month, 1978
Proclamation 4551. February 7, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The American Red Cross is serving the
needs of the American people now, as it
has served them for nearly a century. Al-
though its programs and services have
grown in scope as well as in size over the
years, the relief of human suffering re-
mains its fundamental purpose. Through-
out its proud history, its spirit of volun-
teerism has been the source of its strength.
It is the Red Cross volunteer-our
neighbor—who helps ease the suffering of
disaster victims; who teaches us first aid,
water safety, and proper care of the ill
and injured; who instills in our young
people those qualities of leadership that
will mean so much to this Nation in later
years; who donates the blood that gives
renewed life to the sick; and who comes to
the assistance of the men and women of
our armed forces, and to veterans and
their families.
March has traditionally been observed
as Red Cross Month. It is a time for con-
cerned people to address their thoughts
284
