Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 28, 1978
United States Sinai
Support Mission
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. April 24, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In conformity with Section 4 of Public
Law 94-110 of October 13, 1975, I am
pleased to transmit herewith the Fifth Re-
port of the United States Sinai Support
Mission. It describes the continuing op-
eration of the United States early warning
system in the Sinai and its contribution to
maintaining the disengagement arrange-
ments between Egypt and Israel under
the Sinai II Agreement signed on Sep-
tember 4, 1975.
The estimated cost for operating and
maintaining the U.S. early warning sys-
tem in Fiscal Year 1978, including all
contractor and headquarters expenses, is
expected to be about ten percent less than
the $12.2 million appropriated. For Fiscal
Year 1979, the budget is estimated at
$11.7 million.
During the six-month period covered in
this report, twenty-two minor violations
of the Sinai II Agreement were detected.
In each instance the violation was an un-
authorized aircraft overflight. None of
these incidents was serious.
Both parties to the Agreement recently
reaffirmed to the Director of the Sinai
Support Mission their full confidence in
the manner in which the U.S. is discharg-
ing its responsibilities in the Sinai and
wished this effort to continue as it is at
present.
Dramatic developments in the Middle
East over the past six months expanded
hopes for a comprehensive peace settle-
ment. While the diplomatic process is un-
derway, I believe it imperative that the
U.S. continue to meet fully its obligations
under existing agreements. The activities
of the Sinai Support Mission play an im-
portant part in fulfilling these obligations
and I urge continued Congressional sup-
port for this effective peacekeeping
mission.
The White House,
April 24, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress, SSM, United States Sinai Support
Mission, April 13, 1978" (19 pages plus an-
nexes).
Law Day, U.S.A., 1978
Proclamation 4565. April 25, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
More than any other country, the
United States of America is founded upon
law. Our people are enormously varied in
773
