Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ROBERT TILOVE, senior vice president and
consultant on employee benefit plans at
Martin E. Segal Co. in New York. He re-
places Eugene Burroughs, whose term has
expired.
CAROL W. TRENCHER, currently a member of
this Board, and a partner in the New York
law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby,
Palmer & Wood, where she works in the
field of employee benefits.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpo-
ration is an independent Government
corporation established under the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, to insure private sector defined
benefit pension plans.
United Nations Children's Fund
Appointment of George I. Lythcott as U.S.
Alternate Representative on the Executive
Board. February 16, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of George I. Lythcott as Alter-
nate Representative of the United States
on the Executive Board of the United Na-
tions Children's Fund.
Lythcott, 59, of Reston, Va., is Ad-
ministrator of the Health Services Ad-
ministration at the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. He is a physi-
cian, specializing in pediatrics, and has
served as a consultant to various Govern-
ment agencies.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Representatives of Black Media Associa-
tions. February 16, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say, first
of all, that it's a great pleasure and an
honor for us to have you here today in
the White House. I know that the his-
tory of black journalism in our country
is a very fine and honorable one. And
I had a chance to commemorate, I
think, the 150th anniversary by greet-
ing some of you in the Oval Office this
past year.
MINORITY PROGRAMS
Very shortly I intend to send to the
Congress a message, within the next
week or two, extending the CETA pro-
gram, so that we can focus roughly $13
billion worth of public service job
money more narrowly on areas where it
is needed. In addition to that, we'll add
$400 million in private sector jobs.
This past year we had a substantial in-
crease in employment among black Amer-
icans, I think about 6.7 percent, and
among black teenagers, an increase of 7.8
percent. But that still leaves a tremen-
dous unemployment rate, particularly
among our young people.
We have plans in the 1979 budget to
triple the amount of money devoted to the
training and employment of young minor-
ity teenagers, from roughly $776 million
to about $2.3 billion. So, we are making
steady progress, and many of the pro-
grams that we initiated with the help of
the Congress in 1978 are just now begin-
ning to have its full effect be observed.
In addition, we have passed our goal of
having $100 million in Federal money de-
posited in minority-owned banks, and we
will meet our goal of more than 10 per-
cent of the local public works projects be-
ing devoted or assigned to minority busi-
nesses for completion.
I've instructed all executive agencies
in the Federal Government to double in
this and the next fiscal year the amount
of purchases of equipment and supplies
from black or minority-owned businesses.
And the last point that I wanted to
make is that we will send to the Congress
very shortly a complete reorganization of
318
