Mar. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Americans are basically optimistic, and
they have a right to be. It's justified by
their past accomplishments.
For many years now, we've had a cer-
tain amount of self-examination about
that optimism. And it seems to me the
time is here where that's coming out into
a recognition of self-confidence. And as
we individually gain our self-confidence,
I'm sure that collectively, as each of us
plays our role, the cumulative effect will
be to establish, reestablish the direction
and vitality and the strength of this
Nation.
And Mr. President, with those re-
sources, the Federal Reserve should be
able to make a contribution. And to the
best of my energies and talent, I'll try to
play my part.
Thank you.
Peace Corps and VISTA and the thou-
sands of other voluntary associations in
this country are our greatest human re-
source in the effort to provide for the
human needs of our neighbors on this
Earth.
These associations of volunteers, in-
cluding the Peace Corps and VISTA,
represent our best offering to communi-
ties across the Nation and around the
world.
I ask the American people to join me
in commemoration of the thousands of
our citizens of all ages who have served
in these and similar programs, and call
upon you to support the voluntary efforts
which are so important both to our own
Nation and the rest of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in United States Metric Board
the East Room at the White House.
17th Anniversary of the
Peace Corps
Statement by the President. March 8, 1978
Seventeen years ago this month, Presi-
dent Kennedy signed the Executive order
that created the Peace Corps. Since then,
tens of thousands of volunteers have
worked in the developing world, serving
their host countries and serving this Na-
tion as well.
Thirteen years ago, the first VISTA
volunteers began their work in the poor-
est and most isolated communities in our
Nation.
The spirit of Peace Corps and VISTA
springs from the deepest wells in our cul-
ture, from the reasoned and strongly felt
impulses of our people to share with their
neighbors their caring and their labor.
Nomination of Andrew H. Kenopensky and
Dennis R. Smith To Be Members.
March 9, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Andrew H. Kenopensky
and Dennis R. Smith to be members of
the United States Metric Board.
Kenopensky, 43, of Union, N.J., will be
nominated for a 6-year term. He is na-
tional automotive coordinator for the In-
ternational Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers and has served in a
number of positions in that union. Ken-
opensky has a B.S. degree in labor-man-
agement and a masters degree in educa-
tion.
Smith, 31, of Middleboro, Mass., will
be nominated for a 2-year term. He is a
mathematics teacher for grades 7 and 8
in Middleboro and metric coordinator for
grades K through 12 of Middleboro Pub-
lic Schools. He is an instructor in adult
education (metric) for the Massachusetts
Department of Education.
484
