Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
efficiency in the $500 million spent on
these programs annually, and announced
steps to make expenditures more effective.
The study identified such problems as:
Proliferation and underutilization of tele-
vision facilities.
In the past, the Government has main-
tained no comprehensive list of facilities,
and there has been little facility sharing.
Many studios have been used at less than
half-capacity. One agency recently pro-
posed spending more than $4 million on
a one-time audiovisual training program,
including the purchase of more than $2
million in playback equipment. Had this
expenditure been approved, at the end of
a brief training period the equipment
would have been sold for a fraction of the
purchase price.
Ineffective distribution of materials.
Agencies often produce motion pictures
without a clear idea of the intended audi-
ence and without an effective distribution
plan. Many Government films intended
for general audiences end up being shown
only to limited groups.
Agency self-promotion.
Some films merely promote agency
images rather than provide support for
programs. Film proposals often simply
state that the film is made to make the
agency look good. This sort of effort will
be barred as a result of action taken fol-
lowing the review.
Wasteful duplication.
Since there is no comprehensive cata-
log of Government films, duplication is
common. For example, two military de-
partments recently completed nearly iden-
tical films, at costs of more than $70,000
each, on how to avoid being trapped by
foreign agents. A third military depart-
ment proposed yet another film which
would use the same approach to convey
the same message.
During the study, a number of projects
were identified which appeared to be
wasteful, duplicate existing material, or
failed to identify a target audience. Al-
ready, projects totaling more than $4 mil-
lion have been cancelled. Other recom-
mendations, still under consideration,
could result in additional savings of more
than $8 million.
Based on the review, a number of agen-
cies have already drafted new procedures
to reduce waste and duplication in their
audiovisual activities.
In cooperation with the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, a new Audiovisual
Management Circular has been develop-
cluded the following requirements:
ed and put into effect. The circular in-
• Underutilized production facilities
will be consolidated, reduced in size,
or closed down.
• Audiovisual material should be used
to support specific agency programs,
not for agency self-promotion.
• A master catalog will be prepared.
To reduce duplication, agencies will
be required to use the catalog to
see if what they need already exists.
• Production will be justified on criteria
such as need for the material, costs,
intended audience, and planned
distribution.
• Records of audiovisual products and
expenditures on in-house production
will be maintained in a single loca-
tion and be a matter of public record.
The General Services Administration
has been assigned the responsibility of
providing guidance to agencies in imple-
menting the circular and the recom-
mendations made during the review.
The review of Government programs
was conducted by Robert Lissit, under the
direction of the Office of Telecommuni-
cations Policy and, subsequently, the Na-
tional Telecommunications and Infor-
mation Administration. It was coordi-
786
