May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Relations Authority. The Authority would
be composed of three full-time members
appointed by the President with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate. Its Gen-
eral Counsel, also appointed by the
President and confirmed by the Senate,
would present unfair labor practice com-
plaints. The Plan also provides for the
continuance of the Federal Service Im-
passes Panel within the Authority to re-
solve negotiating impasses between Fed-
eral employee unions and agencies.
The cost of replacing the Civil Service
Commission can be paid by our present
resources. The reorganization itself would
neither increase nor decrease the costs of
personnel management throughout the
government. But taken together with the
substantive reforms I have proposed, this
Plan will greatly improve the govern-
ment's ability to manage programs, speed
the delivery of Federal services to the pub-
lic, and aid in executing other reorgani-
zations I will propose to the Congress, by
improving Federal personnel manage-
ment.
Each of the provisions of this proposed
reorganization would accomplish one or
more of the purposes set forth in 5 U.S.C.
901(a). No functions are abolished by
the Plan, but the offices referred to in 5
U.S.C. 5109(b) and 5 U.S.C. 1103 (d)
are abolished. The portions of the Plan
providing for the appointment and pay
for the head and one or more officers of
the Office of Personnel Management, the
Merit Systems Protection Board, the Fed-
eral Labor Relations Authority and the
Federal Service Impasses Panel, are nec-
essary to carry out the reorganization. The
rates of compensation are comparable to
those for similar positions within the Ex-
ecutive Branch.
I am confident that this Plan and the
companion civil service reform legisla-
legisla-
tion will both lead to more effective pro-
tection of Federal employees' legitimate
rights and a more rewarding workplace.
At the same time the American people
will benefit from a better managed, more
productive and more efficient Federal
Government.
The White House,
May 23, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 2 of 1978
Prepared by the President and transmitted
to the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives in Congress assembled, May 23,
1978, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
9 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
PART I. OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT
SECTION 101. Establishment of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management and its
Director and Other Matters. There is
hereby established as an independent es-
tablishment in the Executive Branch, the
Office of Personnel Management (the
"Office"). The head of the Office shall be
the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management (the "Director"), who shall
be appointed by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate, and shall be compensated at the rate
now or hereafter provided for level II of
the Executive Schedule. The position re-
ferred to in 5 U.S.C. 5109 (b) is hereby
abolished.
SECTION 102. Transfer of Functions.
Except as otherwise specified in this Plan,
all functions vested by statute in the
United States Civil Service Commission,
or the Chairman of said Commission, or
the Boards of Examiners established by 5
U.S.C. 1105 are hereby transferred to the
Director of the Office of Personnel
Management.
SECTION 103. Deputy Director and As-
sociate Directors.
(a) There shall be within the Office a
Deputy Director who shall be appointed
954
