Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
Africa has been renewed and strengthened
by our discussions with the great Nigerian
leaders.
Together, I believe we can bring a
change that will make all of us proud in
Africa in the months and the years ahead.
The last thing I would like to say is
this: The bilateral relationships with your
country is of great benefit to the United
States. You're one of our most important
trading partners. And as I spoke at the
Institution on Political Affairs yesterday,
the director of that Institute told me
afterwards, among the 3,500 or so people
there, that more than half of them in the
audience had had at least part of their
education in the United States. We learn
as much from you as you learn from us.
In the field of agriculture, we see a new
era of additional consultation, mutual
work, mutual learning, mutual benefit. So,
the tremendous potential of your country
can be used not only to feed your own
people but to export to an increasingly
hungry world, because land can no longer
be wasted, and your tremendous natural
resources in land, with which God has
blessed you, can be used much more effi-
ciently in the future and will benefit not
only us but others who look to you for
meeting their growing needs.
We are a great technological nation,
highly advanced, and only with the in-
vestment of our technology in growing
nations like your own can we benefit eco-
nomically in the future. This is important
to us as well.
And, of course, our mutual trade gives
our own people a better life, materials
which we must have for a good life for
American citizens and, in the process,
makes it possible for you to prosper again
economically.
I'm particularly proud at the personal
friendship that has been shown to us by
the people of Nigeria. We arrived here in
the middle of the night, and we were sur-
prised and deeply moved at the number
of average, happy, welcoming Nigerian
people who stood along the highway to let
us know that they cared for me, cared for
the United States and what our Nation
stands for. It's an experience which I shall
never forget.
And this has been mirrored in countless
encounters between myself and your peo-
ple, my wife Rosalynn and your people,
and my little daughter, Amy, and your
young people, which has meant so much
to us already.
This is a trip that I will never forget the
rest of my life. I hope that I might come
back again. And I hope that General
Obasanjo can continue to share with me
his wisdom and his judgment, derived
from you, and his knowledge of this great
country and this great continent.
In closing, I would like, on behalf of
the people of one of the greatest nations
on Earth, the United States, to propose a
toast to a great leader, General Obasanjo,
and to the people of one of the greatest
nations on Earth, the people of Nigeria.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:15 p.m. at the
Federal Palace Hotel.
Lagos, Nigeria
Remarks on Signing the Joint Communique.
April 2, 1978
GENERAL OBASANJO. I once again would
like to take this opportunity to express our
honor for this historic visit and the oppor-
tunity which we have had during the visit
to examine issues of mutual interest to our
two countries and issues which have been
reflected in the communique. Of course,
we did have two sessions of discussion,
one yesterday and one immediately after
the church service today. And we used the
opportunity to examine during the first
session political issues affecting Africa in
661
