June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Brown, who heads the Defense Depart-
ment, and others who help me shape for-
eign policy.
Unfortunately in our country, quite
often special interest groups who don't
like what I decide-and I'm President,
and I make the final decisions—always
look for a scapegoat or someone they can
attack without attacking me personally.
And I don't think it's fair. It's certainly
not right for the Soviet Union and Cuba
to jump on Dr. Brzezinski when I'm the
one who shapes the policy after getting
advice from him and others.
We want to get along with the Soviet
Union. We are determined to stay strong.
We're not going to let the Soviet Union
push us around. We're not going to be
second-[applause]. We're not going to
be second ever in the principles on which
our Nation stands. We're not going to be
second to anyone in our economic status,
the political strength of our country, the
dependence upon what our people indi-
vidually are, our commitment to human
rights, nor militarily. And I want to be
sure that in all of our dealings with the
Soviet Union and other countries, that
this is clearly understood.
I believe that the best way to get along
with the Soviet Union, to emphasize
friendship and cooperation and peace, is
for our country to be consistent, is for our
country to be strong. I'm determined to
have a SALT agreement with the Soviet
Union without unwarranted delay. We're
making good progress. I'm determined to
have an agreement with the Soviet Union
on a comprehensive test ban to stop the
spread of atomic weapons among our two
countries and around the world. And I
would like to see improved trade with the
Soviet Union, to give our farmers and
others a better market for our products.
And we are proceeding with those in an
unconstrained, uninterrupted way.
So, I would say that we shape our for-
eign policy in complete harmony. I make
the final decisions. And I believe that we
are dealing from a basis of strength. And
I think the Soviets in the long run respect
that strength. We've not been pushed into
a corner by artificial deadlines on SALT
negotiations. We're doing it slowly, care-
fully, and methodically. And I want to be
sure when we do have a SALT agree-
ment-which I expect, as I say, without
further delay that it will be based upon
adequate strength for our own country,
compared to the Soviets; a good verifica-
tion procedure, so we can ensure that the
agreement is carried out to maintain the
strategic balance, so neither country will
have an advantage over the other. And
I believe that we will be successful.
I have complete assurance that our
relationship with the Soviet Union is
stable. And I reserve the right, when they
make an unwarranted intrusion, for in-
stance in Africa, to speak for our country
and deplore their threat to the good
attitude that American people would like
to have with the Soviet Union that dem-
onstrates its desire to have peace, which
is what we want.
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, other dignitaries,
and guests, I'm Eve Schultz from Mans-
field, Texas. My question is, do have
you
any new ideas or information that you
might wish to expand on regarding a
national health policy?
THE PRESIDENT. As you presently
know, our Nation is laboring under an
inadequate health program. The cost of
health care is growing at more than twice
the nationwide inflation rate. We've had
a rapid increase in the total financial
burden of Americans for health care. We
have dozens of Federal agencies now re-
sponsible for administering our health
laws. What I want to see evolved is a
1160
