Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 14
300 years, and I imagine it will be pro-
duced in this country years and years in
the future. It's a major export item.
The people of our Nation decide to use
it. I've never smoked a cigarette in my life,
as a matter of fact. I just don't have any
urge to. My father did smoke four or five
packs a day, and he died with cancer, per-
haps because of cigarette smoking.
But I think to stabilize the production
of an agricultural product like tobacco,
which is accepted, which is legal, is a re-
sponsibility of Government, and it's one
that I approve.
On the other hand, Joe Califano is re-
sponsible for the Nation's health. And the
Surgeon General, years ago—I'd say 15
or 20 years ago and all HEW Secretaries
since then, have supported a highly pub-
licized campaign to reduce the con-
sumption of tobacco, certainly cigarette
smoking, which is the most potentially
harmful. The same thing applies to the
State Department, who are constantly
searching for peace at the same time the
Defense Department, you know, prepares
military strength to try to make sure we
have peace.
And we have a real need to understand
that the two are not necessarily incom-
patible. We are not trying to encourage
cigarette smoking by providing a stability
in agricultural production of tobacco. As
a matter of fact, the relatively small sub-
sidies that the Government pays—it's not
an expensive program-actually increase
the cost of tobacco to some degree, per-
haps, and make the price of cigarettes
higher.
The HEW Secretary has advocated an
increase in taxes on cigarettes and a more
severe warning on the packages. But I
think there is, you know, no real conflict,
although on the surface there seems to be.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH ASIA
Q. Mr. President, I'm Larry Giesting
from Rushville, Indiana. During the past
year you were to Europe twice to reassure
our allies there of our continuing support.
Are you planning to meet with our Asian
allies either here or some other spot?
THE PRESIDENT. Asian?
Q. Asian.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've had come
to meet with me this past year the prime
ministers or other leaders of New Zealand,
Australia, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore,
and so forth. I have met with them al-
ready. I don't have scheduled a trip to
Asia. It might very well be that the Vice
President would go to Asia later on this
year. He's going to make a trip very soon
to Canada and to Mexico. But there's a
possibility that he would go to visit those
countries personally.
As a matter of fact, last year, my staff
figured out that I had met personally with
the leaders of 68 nations-that's the top
leader. I don't think any President has
met with that many before. I think Presi-
dent Kennedy met with 44.
I won't meet with nearly so many lead-
ers this year. Many of them wanted to
come to see me because I was so unknown.
I didn't have a voting record in Washing-
ton. They didn't know what to anticipate,
so there was a heavy pressure on us to
invite them and we responded to that.
But this doesn't mean that we ignore
the problems in Asia. I was in Japan the
year before last, in May, and Prime Min-
ister Fukuda is very likely to come here
before the summer to see me again. I met
with him personally in London last May.
I started out this session emphasizing
the importance to us of strong ties to
South Korea, which is kind of a linchpin,
militarily speaking,
militarily speaking, for the Northeast
Asian part of the country. My son was
73
