Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I might say one other thing. We've got
about, I think, 82 percent of the mine-
workers who are not now working. We are
still producing about 50 percent as much
coal, and the reserve supplies of coal are
down below, December 5, only about 45
percent. So, I believe that if we can get a
moderate number-hopefully all, but a
moderate number of coal miners to go
back to work, that we can prevent a crisis
evolving in our country.
The distribution of existing energy sup-
plies-electricity, oil, natural and
gas,
coal—will also help to alleviate the prob-
lem. The injunction has broad coverage,
and I think the sum total of all I've de-
scribed will be adequate.
MARK SIEGEL
Q. Mr. President, to come back to the
Dr. Siegel resignation, Dr. Siegel, as I
understand it, resigned for two reasons:
One, he was being asked to defend ad-
ministration policy in the Middle East,
and two, he was unable to affect that
decisionmaking process within the White
House.
Does his resignation cause you to have
any doubts about his not being able to
have played a more prominent role in
forming that policy? And two, does it
cause you to wonder about the entire
decisionmaking process in the Middle
East within the White House and its fu-
ture implications?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to both
your questions is no. Mark Siegel is a fine
young man and an excellent employee,
and he's done his job well in the White
House, dealing with one of the most diffi-
cult issues that I've had to face as Presi-
dent, an issue on which there is sharp
disagreement in the White House, some-
times disagreements between myself and
the Secretary of State or myself and the
Secretary of Defense or myself and the
national security adviser, myself and my
own staff.
But we resolve those differences as best
we can harmoniously. When there is con-
tinued disharmony, I make the final de-
cision about the administration policy.
But this is an issue that's almost inherently
a subject for dispute and disagreement.
As I pointed out earlier, there is a sharp
public dispute in the Israeli Cabinet it-
self, not limited to a difference between
parties in Israel. And obviously there are
sharp disputes between Israel and her
neighbors. But I think that we are now
addressing these difficult but crucial issues
which are easier, politically speaking, to
leave alone in a proper fashion.
We're not trying to impose our will on
anyone. But I have to say that within the
White House, when there is a continuing
disagreement,
disagreement, that I make the final de-
cision. That's what I was elected to do.
I think that Mark Siegel has had a
strong input in his conversations and
negotiating sessions with the Vice Presi-
dent, with Hamilton Jordan, with Dr.
Brzezinski, and on occasion with me-
not very often directly with me. But he
has a perfect right to decide whether or
not he prefers to continue performing
that service. To explain the administra-
tion positions to very interested American
Jewish groups has been a difficult task
for me as well as him. And I honor his
right to make that decision.
I don't think that we have a breakdown
in communications and consultations
within the White House. And after con-
stant reconsideration, I believe that our
policy on the Middle East is the proper
one.
NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, are you willing to
accept energy legislation that in a few
years would lead to the deregulation of
natural gas?
496
