Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Council on Wage and Price
Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 31, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the
Congress the eleventh quarterly report of
the Council on Wage and Price Stability.
This report contains a description of the
Council activities during the second
quarter of 1977 in monitoring both prices
and wages in the private sector and vari-
ous Federal Government activities that
lead to higher costs and prices without
creating commensurate benefits. It dis-
cusses Council reports and analyses con-
cerning the following matters: (1) the
collective bargaining agreement reached
in the steel industry; (2) the availability
of home insulation materials; (3) pros-
pects for a fertilizer shortage; (4) the
prices of bakery products; (5) the price
behavior of auto parts; and (6) U.S.
production capacity of cement. The re-
port also discusses the Council's filings
before Federal regulatory agencies.
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will continue to play an important
role in supplementing fiscal and monetary
policies by calling public attention to
wage and price developments or actions.
by the Government that could be of con-
cern to American consumers.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 30, 1978.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Quarterly Re-
port: July 1977-Council on Wage and Price
Stability, Executive Office of the President,
Washington, D.C., No. 11" (Government Print-
ing Office, 39 pages).
National Council on the Arts
Renomination of Three Members.
January 30, 1978
The President today announced that he
will renominate Theodore Bikel, Mau-
reen Dees, and Jacob Lawrence to be
members of the National Council on the
Arts. All three were originally nominated
on November 14, 1977. Dees and Law-
rence were nominated at that time for
terms expiring September 3, 1978; their
renominations today are for terms expir-
ing January 26, 1984.
Telecommunications Minority
Assistance Program
Announcement of Administration Program.
January 31, 1978
The Carter administration today an-
nounced a program to increase minority
ownership in electronic communications.
The program will encourage minority
ownership of broadcast and cable televi-
sion facilities and increase the flow of
owned stations, publications, and adver-
Federal advertising dollars to minority-
tising and production firms.
Because of telecommunications' vital
role in social, economic, and political
progress, full minority participation is a
critical component of President Carter's
economic and social policy goals. Minor-
ity ownership markedly serves the public
interest, for it ensures the sustained and
increased sensitivity to minority audi-
ences. Today, fewer than 1 percent of
the Nation's commercial and public ra-
dio and television stations and cable tele-
vision systems are owned or controlled by
minorities.
Historically, minorities seeking broad-
cast ownership have faced:
252
