Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 25
and others who are the last ones hired
and the first ones fired, and the young
people who also have a very high unem-
ployment rate.
So, we are not slackening off at all on
the employment question. The programs
that we put into effect are still in effect.
They are getting more and more specifi-
cally effective with different groups as
time goes on. My belief is that the un-
employment rate will continue to de-
crease, particularly among those groups
that I've just described and, at the same
time, we can tackle inflation with a much
higher concentration of our own effort
and commitment and public awareness.
The two are not in conflict. We've seen
that when the last administration, which
happens to have been Republican, con-
centrated on inflation by letting unem-
ployment go up, it did not work. So, I
believe the best thing is to do what we've
already done, and that is to try to hold
down inflation and bring down unem-
ployment at the same time. That's what
we are trying to do.
LOBBYING ACTIVITY IN CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, in view of the in-
creased lobbying on the Hill, witness the
Panama Canal and your civil service re-
form and all of this, can you support
Senator Kennedy's new expected legisla-
tion on lobbies?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly support
the lobby control legislation that's now
before the Congress. I'm not sure that I
know exactly the terms of Senator Ken-
nedy's own bill. The Congress will vote
this week, the House of Representatives
will vote this week, on a very effective
lobby control bill, a lobby reform bill,
and I support that strongly.
It was one of the themes that I pur-
sued during my own campaign for Presi-
dent. We've been actively involved in
drafting it in the strongest possible terms,
and I do support it.
INTEREST RATES
Q. Mr. President, were you surprised
last week when the Federal Reserve
raised the short-term interest rate, and
have you any reaction to it?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't have any
prior knowledge that the Federal Reserve
was going to raise the interest rates. I do
get a report frequently and regularly
about the supply of money and how much
it is increasing. I understand after the
action was taken, because of an explana-
tion by the
by the Chairman to Charlie
Schultze, that the reason they did raise
the interest rates was because the money
supply was increasing more rapidly than
they desired or thought was advisable for
our country. And obviously, as you know,
the Federal Reserve Board is completely
independent of me. They have no reason
to consult with me before they make a
decision, and don't do it as a matter of
policy.
But I think that the interest rates
ought to be kept as low as possible, and
as you know, I can help to control that
by the form of economic proposals I
make to the Congress, the budget levels
and so forth. And the Congress can help
to determine that by the rate of taxation
and the size of the deficit, and the Fed-
eral Reserve primarily by controlling in
indirect means the supply of money.
But that's an independent action. I did
not know about it ahead of time. I under-
stand the reason that they did it. I would
like to do everything I can-I know that
Bill Miller would, too-to hold down in-
terest rate levels.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, your spokesmen
have said that there will be written as-
surances from Saudi Arabia and Egypt
781
