Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
States. I was on the State steering com-
mittee for the 51.3 Carter-Mondale cam-
paign.
Do you feel that your administration
has in fact put more women in decision-
making positions than your unenlightened
Republican predecessors? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. At the executive
level of Government we've got, I would
say, at least three times as many women
now as we had before. We still don't have
enough. The General Counsel for the De-
fense Department is a woman. Juanita
Kreps, the head of the Commerce De-
partment, as you know, is a woman. The
person who's in charge of all the housing
and urban development programs, of pub-
lic works programs, is also a woman. And
we've had the first women appointed as
U.S. attorneys and also women being
considered and appointed for Federal
judgeships.
I think that we have a difficulty in that
it's hard to locate women with proven
records in business administration or local
or State government administration or in
the Federal Government that we can pro-
mote into a major job, because they've
been discriminated against for so long.
But we have on the regulatory agen-
cies, as well, in the top regulatory agen-
cies, appointed women in major positions
of responsibility. Compared to what my
predecessors have done, we've done an
excellent job; compared to what we can
do, we have not yet done so well. But we
are doing better every day.
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD
Chairman, Bill Miller, and do you feel
that they will be of help to you as you
try to meet your goals?
THE PRESIDENT. The Fed should al-
ways be independent and not subservient
to a President. I'm sure that you
are well aware that the President, the
Congress, and the Federal Reserve Board
have a joint responsibility under our
legal structure.
I, as President, for instance, can with
my Cabinet make many administrative
decisions that concern the rate of spend-
ing of money, what month the money is
spent, what part of the country the money
is spent in. I can propose the overall
budget figures, and the Congress quite
often complies, within reasonable limits,
with the President's proposal.
The Congress has an equivalent re-
sponsibility, for instance, in the tax laws.
They can modify very quickly the tax
laws, giving an instant rebate, which has
a profound effect on the economy.
And at the same time the Federal
Reserve in controlling the flow of money
into and out of the banks can determine
how much money is extant at one time
and indirectly control the interest rate.
So, I think those three can balance one
another.
I had a good working relationship
with Arthur Burns, and I have a great
respect for him. I think he did a good
job. As you know, his major concern
was inflation. But I think that under his
administration, which was combined with
a Democratic Congress and Democratic
and Republican Presidents,
Presidents, including
Q. Mr. President, Morris Shay, 36 myself, the inflation rate continued to
Grove Street, Bangor.
Mr. President, there's been a lot of
talk in recent years about the role of the
Federal Reserve Board and its impact on
our economic welfare. How do you en-
vision the Fed's role under your new
grow up, and I think the interest rates
last
year went up too much.
I don't say that in criticism of him.
But I think Bill Miller will be an out-
standing person. I felt it was time to
bring in a tough, competent business
354
