Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 28
problems and to give me advice on what
I might do as President heading the ex-
ecutive branch of Government and hav-
ing influence in the business community
and, perhaps, some limited influence in
the higher education institutions to help
with the problem.
There is a definite problem. Although
women enjoy a major role in the owner-
ship of stock in businesses, sometimes
earned by themselves, sometimes in-
herited after the death of a husband,
there's an alarmingly small portion of
women ownership of active businesses in
the financial structure of our country.
Less than one-half of 1 percent as a
matter of fact, I think three-tenths of 1
percent of gross business receipts in this
country are derived from businesses
owned by women.
This is an alarmingly small percentage.
And it certainly is not related to either
the need or the inclination or ambition of
women who want to be at the manage-
ment level in the free enterprise system
of our country.
Women have the same motivations as
men for wanting to own and control and
to manage the business life of our
country. They desire, obviously, to earn
a living, to make money, to take what
talents or ability they have and to let
that talent be expressed in productive
contribution to society and to exercise
management, judgments, and to shape
the communities within which they live,
to set an example for others to enter the
competitive world that makes our coun-
try a great one.
Women also have the same problems
that men do in becoming entrepreneurs,
particularly in a small business environ-
ment, inadequate capital, the need to
build a reputation that would encourage
lending institutions to invest in that per-
son. These opportunities and problems
are shared. But women suffer from dis-
crimination.
I don't think there's any doubt that a
Federal agency or a private lending in-
stitution, an institution of higher educa-
tion has an almost innate feeling that a
business investment would best be made
through a man than a woman. It's not
fair. It's not deserved. There's no reason
for it. But it exists.
I've looked over the outline of the rec-
ommendations of this Task Force. And
I think there have been some very clear
delineations of the reasons for this prob-
lem, and I have a responsibility along
with all of you to correct those problems.
Almost every agency of the Federal
Government, from the Internal Revenue
Service, the Commerce Department, the
Agriculture Department, obviously the
Treasury Department, the Small Business
Administration, can take administrative
actions without the requirement of con-
gressional action or law change to help
resolve some of the problems that have
been identified.
There's a greatly expanding women's
work force; almost half the women in our
country now have jobs outside their own
homes. But in even middle- and upper-
level management positions, only 1
woman in 20 enjoys this opportunity or
privilege or responsibility, less than third
the rate of that enjoyed by men.
Well, I'll do all I can to help alleviate
this problem and to remove the discrimi-
natory aspects of our society both in gov-
ernment and outside of government.
And to close, I might say that I have
this motivation not just to please women
or to honor women but because of the
best interests of our country, because
when we lose a tremendous reservoir of
talent, innovation, sensitivity, compe-
tence that we are presently losing, it
hurts our country. And I want to be sure
that we don't suffer any further from this
1189
