Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 22
When I was in the nuclear program in
the early fifties, Oak Ridge was almost
like Mecca for us, because this is where
the basic work was done that, first of all,
contributed to the freedom of the world
and ended the war and, secondly, shifted
very rapidly to peaceful use of nuclear
power.
I have never been here before. Admiral
Rickover ¹ has told me a lot about this
place, and so has my wife, who came here
during the campaign. But I know that
your major thrust has now shifted away
from the production of nuclear power for
destructive purposes and toward a broad
range of peaceful and constructive uses.
You still contribute to the defense of
our country, for which I'm very grateful
as Commander in Chief and as President.
I think that we've now reached a time in
the evolution of our country when your
work is going to be of increasing impor-
tance. We are now addressing questions
that have not been addressed adequately,
questions that have not been solved or an-
swered in the past.
The Nation is concerned about those
problems that you are trying to solve here.
And I think we've just now begun to real-
ize the diversity of them and the interre-
lationship among them and how impor-
tant international cooperation has
become.
We've got a real need under the Na-
tional Energy Plan, that we are now hav-
ing considered by Congress, which we
hope will soon be addressed successfully,
a challenge for the future which you can
help to solve the accurate inventorying
of our limited resources, the proper ex-
traction, modification, distribution, use of
those resources, how to eliminate waste
and get maximum benefit for our people
from what God has given us in minerals
¹ Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, Deputy Com-
mander for Nuclear Propulsion, Naval Sea
Systems Command, Department of the Navy.
and through the Sun and through our
water and land supplies.
We've got, I think, a burgeoning con-
cern about the health or environmental
impact of long-term exposure to both very
small quantities of radiation and to what
was formerly considered to be negligible
amounts of pollution in the air, in the
water and the land. And your work here
is contributing greatly to understanding
these complex matters and to deriving
answers to those questions as well.
In the future, I think the success that
we will strive to achieve in the energy
field is heavily on your shoulders. You've
been blessed by a concentration here of
superb intelligence and experience, a
breadth of knowledge and unlimited vi-
sion among the scientists and those who
support them.
We've got some technologies that are
already well underway-the fluidized
bed coal combustion—others that are not
quite so far along but still have not yet
been utilized fully-the gas-cooled re-
actor, breeder technology in all its forms,
how to expedite and make more energy
efficient the enrichment of uranium to
determine the limits on its proper use,
other radioactive materials to be used, like
thorium.
Far into the future perhaps not quite
so far if you are successful-is the use of
fusion power. I know that you've had
great scientific achievements here in
reaching perhaps the highest tempera-
tures of anywhere else on Earth. And we
still have, as you well know, three limit-
ing factors on having a successful and
sustained fusion process here on Earth,
and the work here at Oak Ridge can
contribute greatly to that.
We've not yet been able to solve the
question of proper disposal of nuclear
wastes, even though your work at Oak
Ridge in the production of fissionable
quality nuclear material began many
decades ago. And I think the whole world
949
