Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 21
ment to bring about a resolution in the
best interests of the public and our sys-
tem itself.
There are two very important prob-
lems that they will address, among others.
First, is how to resolve complex legal
cases quickly. I mentioned this at some
length in my speech to the Bar Associa-
tion of Los Angeles County a month or so
ago. We have cases that drag out almost
indefinitely. They sap away the legal
talent of our country that could be more
productively used in other efforts. They
delay a resolution of judgment and deci-
sion which works to the advantage of one
party or the other, and quite often
against the best interests of the public. So,
how to deal with this question is one that
I believe, if resolved, would have a greatly
beneficial effect on the parties to the dis-
putes and on the public itself.
The other one is to examine and rec-
ommend elimination of unwarranted ex-
emptions from antitrust legislation and
regulation. I believe that this study, the
publication of their results, the acquaint-
ance of the public and me and others with
the needs for reform, will bring about a
successful effort.
Some of the people behind me have
already made great progress. I think the
rulings that have come out of the Civil
Aeronautics Board in this past 12 months
have been an exciting thing, an innova-
tive achievement which was feared
greatly, originally, by the airline com-
panies, but it's resulted in a great deal of
reduction in unnecessarily high fares. The
passengers have benefited substantially,
and I think there's a growing feeling,
almost unanimously, even among the air-
line industry executives, that this en-
hanced, competitive attitude within the
airline industry has been beneficial.
I hope that soon we can move into
other similar regulated industries. And I
believe that the trend is to minimize, not
to increase, unwarranted government in-
trusion into the regulatory process.
I hope that we'll have simplification of
laws and regulations and a reduction in
the total degree of regulation which, in
the past, has almost inexorably trended
toward a protection of the interest of the
industries regulated, against the best in-
terests of the American public. But we've
had some innovative thoughts and actions
in recent months which can serve as an
inspiration and an example for this group
behind me.
Well, in closing, let me say that I'm
very grateful to these people for their
willingness to serve. They bring a high
degree of professional competence and
experience to a very challenging and diffi-
cult and sensitive subject. And as Presi-
dent of our country, I wish them much
success. And I believe that their study and
their report will not only be substantial
and profound, but that they will benefit
from knowing that I, the Attorney Gen-
eral, and others will work with great en-
thusiasm and fervency to implement the
recommendations that they make.
Thank you again for being willing to
serve. I'm very proud of what I hope you
will do, and I expect great things from
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Organization of American States
Remarks at the Opening Session of the Eighth
General Assembly. June 21, 1978
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary General,
distinguished Foreign Ministers-I be-
lieve with 100-percent attendance-Am-
bassadors, delegates and observers to this
General Assembly, and friends:
In the brief time that I have been
President of our country, I have enjoyed
1141
