Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We will also continue with the strong
dam safety inspection program which was
initiated late last year to make sure our
dams, public or private, are safe.
Alaska Lands
Last year, I sent Congress a proposal
for use of Federal lands in Alaska. This
proposal will protect 92 million acres for
the public, will create or expand 13 na-
tional parks and reserves, 13 national
wildlife refuges, and will confer wild and
scenic river status on 33 waterways. I
hope Congress will adopt these measures,
which are needed this year to preserve the
unique natural treasures of Alaska and, at
the same time, permit the orderly devel-
opment of Alaskan resources.
Redwood National Park
Redwood National Park contains some
of the Nation's largest and oldest trees.
Last year, to protect these trees from de-
struction by commercial logging at the
edges of the Park, legislation was pro-
posed to expand its boundaries. We will
press for Congressional action on this bill
in 1978.
National Heritage Program
We will shortly be proposing a Federal-
State program to preserve unique ele-
ments of our natural and cultural
heritage. This program, modeled after
successful ones in several states, will be
administered by the Department of the
Interior. Although many of the necessary
steps can be taken administratively, we
will seek some new legislative authority
in 1978.
Federal Compliance with Environmental
Laws
My Administration is committed to the
principle that the Federal government
must set a good example of compliance
with those environmental laws and reg-
ulations which have been established for
the private sector. So far, unfortunately,
the Federal record has been found want-
ing. My 1979 budget includes money to
bring Federal facilities into compliance
with existing environmental laws and
regulations.
Federal Reclamation
In 1977, we began a thorough review
of the 1902 Reclamation Act. After the
study has been completed and reviewed
this year, I will propose to Congress any
changes needed to modernize the law.
Mining Law Reform
Last year the Administration proposed
legislation to replace the archaic 1872
Mining Law with a modern leasing sys-
tem for publicly-owned mineral resources.
The 1872 system has resulted in with-
drawal of large areas of land from
mineral exploration as the only tool for
environmental protection. The Admin-
istration's proposal would establish a bal-
anced system where the public interests
in mineral development, environmental
protection and revenue to the U.S. Treas-
ury will all be accomplished. Special pro-
visions would minimize burdens on small
operators and provide incentives for ex-
ploration.
Oil Spills
Last year I proposed to Congress legis-
lation which would establish strict lia-
bility standards for oil tanker spills and
would improve regulations aimed at pre-
venting future oil spills. That legislation
is still needed.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The health of American science and
technology and the creation of new
knowledge is important to our economic
well-being, to our national security, to our
116
