Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
comprehensive health care plan that will
give Americans good health care, pri-
marily emphasizing prevention of disease
at the lowest possible cost, with an em-
phasis on outpatient care instead of in-
patient care, an increased use of immu-
nization programs, non-medical-doctor
care, when it's appropriate under the
supervision of medical doctors, and a
tough anti-inflation component.
We are trying to evolve this in such a
way that we will not have a major increase
in the cost of health care in our country.
And I want to be sure that when we do
put a health care program into effect,
whenever the Congress decides to do so,
that the cost of a given level of health
care will not be higher, but lower.
The exact rate of implementation of
such a health care plan will have to
depend upon budget constraints and the
change, which might be slow, in the Fed-
eral bureaucracy. But we are working
very carefully on it, and within the next
few weeks, I will present to the Con-
gress—rather, to the Secretary of HEW,
a set of principles in more detail than
I've just described to you.
Secretary Califano will then consult
with Members of Congress, the medical
care community, doctors, hospitals, and
others, and make a recommendation pub-
licly later on this year. But those are some
of the principles that I see as being
needed careful attention to cost, better
preventive care, outpatient care, immu-
nizations, and a broader use of health
care professionals and less cost for Ameri-
cans for a given level of care. I believe
we can do all those things within the con-
straints I've set.
NUCLEAR POWER
Q. Mr. President, my name is Joe
Cook, and I'm from Dallas. First, I'd like
to preface my question by saying that I
welcome you to our area and that I cer-
tainly am proud of the many accom-
plishments which you've stated today,
although on occasion I have disagreed
with you.
My question concerns one of your cam-
paign promises to reduce our country's
dependence on nuclear power as the pri-
mary energy source for the future. Your
reasons at that time, which I wholeheart-
edly agreed with, concern the environ-
mental and health dangers
dangers from
operation of the plants, and especially lack
of safe ways to dispose of nuclear wastes,
some of which have a half-life of some
250,000 years.
Your administration's energy policy
under, I presume, substantial influence
from Secretary Schlesinger, seems to be
moving in the opposite direction. Why is
that? And specifically, what will you do
to deemphasize nuclear power and stim-
ulate rapid development of safe alterna-
tive energy sources, such as solar, for the
future?
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Schlesinger is
here. [Laughter] But I'll answer the
question.
I think we've got a very good and sound
policy evolving concerning nuclear
power. My own background in graduate
work is in nuclear physics and nuclear
power, and I think I understand both the
limitations and the capabilities of nuclear
power as a layman and also as President.
We've tried to emphasize as best we
can the shift toward permanent fuel
sources-Texas has taken a leadership
role in that more use of coal, decreased
waste, more conservation, and the use of
nuclear power in such a way that it will
be safe, that waste products can be dis-
posed of as they have not been in the
past, in a safe fashion, and a predictable
fashion, and to stop the spread of nuclear
explosives around the world.
1161
