Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I'll be back in Washington this after-
noon about 2:00 or 2:30, and on the
way back on Air Force One, I'll get a tele-
phone call from the Secretary of Labor
describing to me what the current situa-
tion is then. We'll decide our own strat-
egy, try to keep the parties involved in
Washington. I will intercede personally,
if necessary. It may be necessary for the
Secretary of Labor to evolve a proposal
that could be presented to both sides as his
own. We don't know that yet.
But it's very doubtful, if the Taft-Hart-
ley law is invoked, that the Federal courts
could force miners to go in those deep
mines and work. And then you are faced
with the proposition of law enforcement
officers on one hand and miners on the
other, and possible violence, incarceration
of the workers, continued loss in their sal-
aries, no restoration of their pension
funds, no restoration of their health care
benefits, the mine operators losing money
every day, the country suffering. And I
don't want to face that prospect and nei-
ther do the miners or owners.
But if I have to, of course I will take
such drastic action if the entire collective
bargaining process breaks down. I don't
want to predict that yet, because I still
have confidence that the miners and own-
ers and I and the country want to have
the situation settled through collective
bargaining. But that's always a possibility
that's on my shoulders as a responsibility,
and of course, I would not avoid it if I
have to take that action.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Susan
Bachelder. I'm from Pittsfield High
School in Pittsfield. I just want to know,
we are sending billions of dollars to help
poor countries to feed their people. And I
was wondering why we don't send food to
help the nations instead of money, and
this way we could get rid of some of the
surplus food that we have that is making
the farmers get such low prices for their
produce.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. For a
number of years, we've had what is known
as Public Law 480, which permits the
transfer of food and feed grain products
from our country directly to people who
are hungry. We are expanding that pro-
gram now, and both the Senators behind
me on the platform are strong supporters
of that particular aspect of our foreign
aid program.
In other areas, we make long-term
loans to countries to permit them to buy
our own products, food and other prod-
ucts as well, which tends to keep Ameri-
can workers employed and increases our
exports of goods produced in this country.
The amount of actual cash money
that's given to another country is very,
very small compared to those other pro-
grams that I've described to you. We have
a mixture in our foreign aid program of
that kind of humanitarian support-
food, feed grains, loans, economic aid to
let them build electropower dams, irri-
gation projects, highways, hospitals,
schools and the hard loans, so-called,
where they have to repay just as firmly
and with substantial interest payments as
if your parents or you borrowed from a
bank.
But we are expanding the very aspect
of food distribution that you've described.
That's an excellent thought that came
from you, and I think it shows very good
thinking.
We've now got substantial surpluses on
hand of soybeans, corn and other feed
grains, and wheat, for making food. This
is an excellent idea that you've described.
It's one on which we are already mov-
ing. And I think it's a much better way to
380
