Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 18
our hearts, but had not espoused in the
past with our tangible evidence of interest
and courage.
Senator Byrd sees this very clearly. He's
spent a lot of time with me and with Cy
Vance, with Dr. Brzezinski, in private
meetings, unpublicized meetings, to try to
be part of a process of beneficial change
throughout the world. Because of his past
and present responsibilities in the Senate,
he's had to understand all 50 States, the
highly focused conflicts of interest and
opinion, background and experience,
concerns, fears, hopes, dreams, aspira-
tions of an America that derives its
strength from diversity. But it takes a
statesman of superb qualities to be able
to balance those potential conflicts.
Among a hundred Senators who are
proud, who share with all fellow politi-
cians some degree of ego, either for
themselves personally or primarily for
their people who trust them and have
chosen them to lead, and the careful bal-
ancing of these forces in a democratic
Senate requires the most superb judg-
ment and sensitivity and, I would say,
above all, the respect of those whom he
leads.
There has to be absolute integrity,
absolute truth, because any deviation
from that standard would destroy the
effectiveness of that leadership, and that's
what he shows.
But I think in addition to his interna-
tional and national interest and accom-
plishment, the thing that impresses me
most is that he knows where his roots are.
I know when I'm in Liberia or when
I'm in Germany or when I'm in South
America, or traveling around in our great
country, I remember Georgia and I re-
member Plains. And I derive a great
strength from that base of trust and
friendship, family, and I remember where
my roots are.
And I think one of the most superb
characteristics of Bob Byrd is his closeness
to the people of West Virginia. You have
honored him, but I think at least equally
he has honored you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 p.m. at
the Officers' Club at Bolling Air Force Base.
Recording for the Blind,
Incorporated
Remarks on Presenting the Organization's
Annual Scholarship Achievement Awards.
May 18, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is one of those de-
lightful occasions that warms the heart of
a President or any other person who loves
our Nation and who admires great
achievement and great courage.
I was one of the executive officers in the
Lion's International Organization. And
our major project, not only in this country
but in more than 100 other nations, is
concerning eyesight, the conservation of
eyesight, and also the ability to meet the
needs of those who happen to be blind,
but who have an open heart and an open
mind that can see and understand the
world around them.
One of the most delightful achieve-
ments in our Nation is the development
of a superb library of books and other ma-
terials for those who are blind, but who
have not let this physical affliction inter-
fere with their hunger for knowledge and
the development of themselves.
There are several thousand volunteers
in 29 centers around the country-one in
Athens, Georgia; I just learned, one in
Oak Ridge, Tennessee, where I'll be going
this weekend-who record the texts of
books of all kinds.
In addition, the organization that pro-
duces these library facilities for blind peo-
925
