Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 3
sibilities of the Secretary of Energy for the
performance of certain functions pre-
viously vested in other officers of the
United States by direction of the President
and subsequently transferred to the Sec-
retary of Energy pursuant to the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (91
Stat. 565; 42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), it is
hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Functions of the Federal
Energy Administration. In accordance
with the transfer of all functions vested by
law in the Federal Energy Administration,
or the Administrator thereof, to the Secre-
tary of Energy pursuant to Section 301 (a)
of the Department of Energy Organiza-
tion Act, hereinafter referred to as the
Act, the Executive Orders and Proclama-
tions referred to in this Section, which
conferred authority or responsibility upon
the Administrator of the Federal Energy
Administration, are amended as follows:
(a) Executive Order No. 11647, as
amended, relating to Federal Regional
Councils, is further amended by deleting
"The Federal Energy Administration” in
Section 1(a) (10) and substituting "The
Department of Energy", and by deleting
"The Deputy Administrator of the Fed-
eral Energy Administration" in Section
3(a) (10) and substituting “The Deputy
Secretary of Energy".
(b) Executive Order No. 11790 of
June 25, 1974, relating to the Federal En-
ergy Administration Act of 1974, is
amended by deleting "Administrator of
the Federal Energy Administration" and
"Administrator" wherever they appear
Sections 1 through 6 and substituting
"Secretary of Energy” and “Secretary”,
respectively, and by deleting Sections 7
through 10.
in
(c) Executive Order No. 11912, as
amended, relating to energy policy and
conservation, and Proclamation No. 3279,
as amended, relating to imports of pe-
troleum and petroleum products, are fur-
ther amended by deleting "Administrator
of the Federal Energy Administration",
"Federal Energy Administration", and
"Administrator" (when used in reference
to the Federal Energy Administration)
wherever those terms appear and by
substituting "Secretary of Energy”, “De-
partment of Energy", and "Secretary",
respectively, and by deleting “and the Ad-
ministrator of Energy Research and De-
velopment" in Section 1(b) of Executive
Order No. 11912, as amended.
SEC. 2. Functions of the Federal Power
Commission. In accordance with the
transfer of functions vested in the Federal
Power Commission to the Secretary of
Energy pursuant to Section 301(b) of the
Act, the Executive Orders referred to in
this Section, which conferred authority or
responsibility upon the Federal Power
Commission, or Chairman thereof, are
amended or modified as follows:
(a) Executive Order No. 10485 of
September 3, 1953, relating to certain fa-
cilities at the borders of the United States
is amended by deleting Section 2 thereof,
and by deleting "Federal Power Commis-
sion" and "Commission" wherever those
terms appear in Sections 1, 3 and 4 of such
Order and substituting for each “Secre-
tary of Energy".
(b) Executive Order No. 11969 of
February 2, 1977, relating to the adminis-
tration of the Emergency Natural Gas Act
of 1977, is hereby amended by deleting the
second sentence in Section 1, by deleting
"the Secretary of the Interior, the Admin-
istrator of the Federal Energy Adminis-
tration, other members of the Federal
Power Commission and" in Section 2, and
by deleting "Chairman of the Federal
Power Commission" and "Chairman"
wherever those terms appear and sub-
stituting therefor "Secretary of Energy"
and "Secretary", respectively.
271
