Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
the States, when Atlanta itself was de-
stroyed, and the values that we reob-
tained when our Nation was united, but
we've always been committed to the
strong defense of our country. We've al-
ways been a people who could see and
who had a deep desire to see the product
of each day's work.
I had a good life as a young boy on a
farm, but I remember a sense of accom-
plishment and pride and inspiration for
the future each day after I worked in
the field with my father and others, to
look back and see how many rows had
been plowed, how much land had been
broken, how much corn had been pulled,
how much cotton had been picked. And
there was a tangible measure of work well
done in preparation for the future, when
the wood box was filled with stove wood
that my mother could burn the next day
and when the water bucket was pumped
full from a hand pump.
These kinds of things were specific as-
signments of responsibility. And it was a
sense of community and common purpose
and harmony and a sense of fulfillment
and a sense that we were contributing in
our own small way, but an identifiable
way, to the welfare of our family, our
community, and indeed, sometimes even
the Nation itself.
That's the kind of spirit that's not too
far in the past to be forgotten. Those
kinds of commitments, those kinds of ex-
periences, those kinds of hopes, those
kinds of dreams, those kinds of accom-
plishments are the standards by which
the strength of America can be preserved
in our own individual lives.
All of us don't have to be rich. All of us
don't have to hold political office. All of
us don't have to be influential or well-
known. But none of us who hold public
office, who are influential, who are well-
known can accomplish the ideals and the
potentials of our Nation unless we work
in harmony. And when there's a separa-
tion between government and people, be-
tween the rich and the poor, between
blacks and whites, between the North
and the South, between new cities and old
cities, our Nation suffers. And we who
have seen the devastation of war and the
social and psychological devastation of
racial segregation know the value of
harmony, of family, and of a common
purpose.
This month was a month when two
great men of the South were born. One
of them, Martin Luther King, Jr., who
was not welcomed by most of us when he
began with his lonely voice to point out
the potentials of the South and the dam-
age that was accruing to both blacks and
whites by racial discrimination. But he
had courage. And he gave his life that
the South and the people he loved, both
black and white, might reach our full
potential. And as I said dozens of times
in my 2 years of campaigning, there would
have been absolutely no chance for me, a
southerner, to ever think of becoming
President of the United States had it not
been for him and what he stood for and
what he accomplished.
He saw that in a 30-year period the
greatest thing that the South lost was our
young people. Three million young whites
left the South. Five million young blacks
left the South. And now they are coming
back home, because the stable, God-given
resources of our Nation were waiting for
them. And to utilize those resources, there
is a united people, bound together by a
sense of equality and common purpose
and mutual respect, compassion, and even
love.
And the other person who was born in
January was a great leader, Robert E.
Lee. Robert E. Lee was a man who under-
stood the values of a region which he rep-
157
