Apr. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But I believe our economy is very
sound, and I think the recent indications
on the value of the dollar in interna-
tional monetary markets and the value of
stock on the exchanges in New York have
been a good indication of renewed con-
fidence in the American economy, which,
of course, is highly justified.
We have a couple of very controversial
issues coming up in the Congress on for-
eign affairs of immediate consequence.
One is a proposal to sell weapons to three
Middle Eastern countries-Israel, Egypt,
and Saudi Arabia-and the proposal to
lift the arms embargo against Turkey to
try to get the Turkish-Greek relationships
improved and to make some movement
on Cyprus, which has now been stale-
mated almost 3 years. This is a very seri-
ous matter in both instances, and both of
these decisions by the Congress are highly
controversial and have some potential
political damage to individual Members
of Congress as they make these decisions.
The last week's vote on the Panama
Canal treaties is perhaps the worst polit-
ical vote that the Senators will have to
cast, certainly in my term of office. And
I think they made the right decision in a
very courageous way.
We have a lot of other items that I
won't go into unless you have specific
questions. I'll be getting our water policy
proposals on my desk within the next few
days. We've been working intimately
with Congress Members and also Gover-
nors and others in the Midwest and West-
ern States, particularly on water policy.
I think it's crucial to our country to have
some predictability about how we assign
priorities, how we spend money, the
benefit-cost ratios, environmental consid-
erations, and I believe that there's never
been an issue that's come before me that
has warranted and has received any
more close consultation with local and
State officials who are directly involved.
Perhaps now it would be better for you
to ask me questions, rather than my tak-
ing any more of your time. I would like
to ask, if you don't mind, that we termi-
nate this meeting about 5 minutes before
the half hour, so that I can have an in-
dividual photograph made with you.
Those of you who are philosophically ad-
verse to it can destroy the photograph.
[Laughter]
QUESTIONS
TIMBER PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, Secretary Bergland
told us there is consideration of tying the
level of timber harvests more closely to
the demands of the market and the price
of wood products. Is that a serious con-
sideration in your office, and if so, would
it involve a deviation from traditional
Forest Service harvest policies such as
nondeclining even-flow?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've had an
almost unprecedented rate of growth in
housing starts and construction in the
last year and a half. And this has put
additional pressures on the price of lum-
ber, which I think are one of the major
contributing factors to the inflation rate
in, particularly, family homes. I think
that we can increase the rate of timber
harvest in public lands, both Federal
and State lands, and also in the large
land holdings of private individuals and
companies.
I think we can do this without any ad-
verse effect on environmental quality and
without any adverse effect on ultimate
total production of timber from these
lands. I've had a meeting with some of
the key harvesters of major quantities of
timber here around this table from the
Far West, and they have pledged to me—
the processors of timber-that they will
not only try to make their production
more highly efficient, that is, waste less
806
