Apr. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I come from a great nation to visit a
great nation. When my voice speaks
words, they are not the words of a per-
sonal person but the words of a country.
It's no coincidence that I come here
to this institute, where free and open dis-
cussions and debate contribute to the
comprehension and understanding and
the reaching of agreements that solve
problems that have separated people one
from another.
It is no coincidence that I come to Ni-
geria to talk about our bilateral relation-
ships and the problems of Africa. And it
is no coincidence that our Nation has now
turned in an unprecedented way toward
Africa—not to give you our services but
to share with you a common future, com-
bining our strengths and yours, correcting
our weaknesses and correcting yours. And
this departure from past aloofness by the
United States is not just a personal com-
mitment of my own, but I represent the
deep feelings and the deep interest of all
the people of my country.
I'm proud and deeply moved to be the
first American President to make an offi-
cial visit to your country. And I'm espe-
cially grateful for the warmth and the
generosity of my reception by the Govern-
ment and by the people of Nigeria.
I don't know who's doing the work, but
many Nigerians are standing beside the
roadway to make me and my family feel
welcome, and I thank you for it.
During my first year as President of the
United States, I've been pleased to work
closely with General Obasanjo, learning
from him and from other African leaders.
Our cooperation has had a special mean-
ing for me, since Africa has been so much
in my thoughts during the past 15 months.
Our countries have much in common.
Nigeria and the United States are vast
and diverse nations seeking to use our
great resources for the benefit of all our
people. That's the way it is now; that's
the way it will continue to be in the
future.
Americans admire the energy, the wis-
dom, the hard work, the sense of optimism
of the Nigerian people, for these are ex-
actly the same qualities which we admire
in my country.
The Nigerian Government has shown
these qualities in your own national ac-
complishments and in your efforts for
worldwide peace and economic progress—
in the Organization for African Unity, in
the United Nations, and in other councils
where nations seek common ground so as
to resolve differences and to work
together.
We admire also the humane and the
creative way which Nigeria has come
through a divisive time in your own
history. Through public debate and far-
reaching planning, you are designing a
democratic future for a new "One
Nigeria," and we're grateful and excited
about this prospect.
Our bonds of friendship go back many
years. Nigerian students first came to the
United States in the 19th century. Your
first President, Nnamdi Azikiwe, studied
in our country. In applying to Lincoln
University, he wrote that he believed in
education for service and service for
humanity.
Tens of thousands of young Nigerians
have followed him to America to prepare
themselves for service here in their home-
land. Many are present or future teachers,
who will help you achieve your goal of
universal primary education.
We in the United States are learning
from you as well, for we are enriched by
our ties and heritage in Africa, just as
we hope to contribute to the realization
of African hopes and African expecta-
tions.
646
