Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Japan, the United Kingdom, and the
United States of America have agreed
to hold the next Summit meeting in
Bonn at the invitation of Chancellor
Schmidt on July 16 and 17. The Euro-
pean Community will be represented by
the President of the Council and the
President of the Commission in sessions
dealing with matters within the Com-
munity's competence. The meeting will
provide an occasion for the participants
to review the world economic situation
and to give impetus to national and in-
ternational approaches that can contrib-
ute to a healthier world economy.
The world faces serious and interre-
lated economic problems. Their resolu-
tion requires approaches in various areas
that, taken together, will reinforce each
other in improving the economic situa-
tion. The interrelated issues to be
addressed include the achievement of
more rapid global growth with further
progress in reducing inflation, energy,
trade, international monetary matters,
and the cooperation between industrial
and developing countries. These issues
must be tackled by individual countries
in a mutually supportive manner. The
Summit participants will work to this end
in developing their policies and in pre-
paring for the July meeting.
when they retire. The magnitude of the
tax increase has been exaggerated in the
press and the significant increases do not
occur for several years.
In my view, it would be better to act
on reform of social security in a more de-
liberate fashion next year than to risk ill-
considered legislation through hasty ac-
tion this year. Congress recognized the
need for careful study by creating several
study groups as part of the 1977 Act.
A short-term payroll tax cut is not a
substitute for the comprehensive tax re-
form and reduction proposals I have pre-
sented to the Congress. Those proposals
will offset the higher payroll taxes for the
majority of individuals, improve the fair-
ness of our tax system, and sustain eco-
nomic growth. I urge you to oppose any
plan which would reduce payroll taxes at
the expense of income tax reductions.
Enactment of our tax reform and re-
duction proposals would be a more pru-
dent and responsible step than stop-gap
action on payroll taxes. We stand ready
to work with the Congress on reform in
social security next year.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker
of the House of Representatives, Robert C.
Byrd, majority leader of the Senate, Senator
Russell B. Long, and Representative Al Ullman.
Social Security Financing
Legislation
Letter to Congressional Leaders.
April 10, 1978
I will be releasing a statement today re-
iterating this Administration's position
that the 1977 social security financing leg-
islation should not be changed this year.
The tax increases in that legislation have
saved the system from bankruptcy, pro-
tected our older citizens, and insured cur-
rent workers of a sound retirement system
Social Security Financing
Legislation
White House Statement. April 10, 1978
We are very concerned about current
efforts to amend the recently passed social
security financing legislation. Upon sign-
ing the bill, the President praised the Con-
gress for its political courage in voting for
the taxes necessary to restore the financial
integrity of the social security system. He
720
