Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
My guess is that these focused Federal
programs that are already on the books
and already financed, the comprehensive
education training programs, local public
works, and so forth, can now be focused
much more accurately upon those minor-
ity citizens who have not yet benefited,
because they are ordinarily the last ones
hired and the first ones fired. And as the
general economy improves, that competi-
tion for scarce jobs goes down, and the
Federal programs, which I hope will be
temporary and not needed in the future,
can be channeled much more accurately
to the people about whom you asked.
Thank you.
U.S. POLICY IN AFRICA
Q. Mr. Carter, I'm Lloyd Gite, pres-
ently living in Dallas. There's been a lot
of talk in the last year or so about the
situation in southern Africa. The United
States Government has expressed an in-
terest in seeing that majority rule comes
to Rhodesia, Zimbabwe, better known as
South Africa, and also Namibia, better
known as South West Africa.
I'd like to know just how far the United
States Government is willing to go to see
that majority rule comes to those three
countries, especially South Africa. Just
how committed is the United States Gov-
ernment?
THE PRESIDENT. I understand this will
have to be the last question, but let me
try to answer this as briefly as I can.
I think all of you would agree that our
Nation's interest in the tremendous con-
tinent of Africa has only been aroused in
the last few years. We have a uniform
policy, both publicly and privately, to
encourage majority rule in the nations of
southern Africa.
We have a new friendship, I believe,
with major African leaders, those who are
the frontline states around Rhodesia, the
leaders of Nigeria and others. We have
combined our efforts with those of the
British, primarily, who have a legal right
in Rhodesia to try to bring about major-
ity rule there.
Secretary Vance, myself, and our con-
stant efforts through our delegations,
ambassadors, and so forth, are trying to
bring together the so-called internal gov-
ernment leaders, four of them, as you
know, and those comprising the so-called
Patriotic Front. We want to do this in
such a way that the interests of the mi-
nority groups there, who are white, are
protected, and so that there can be free
elections and unlimited registration.
These are the principles that we have put
forward.
The arguments at this point are about
the transition period. What will be the
role played by the United Nations? Who
will control the police? How will the two
armies be merged after a settlement
comes? Who can qualify to run for public
office?
In Namibia, we represent the United
Nations with four other major West-
ern countries-Canada, Great Britain,
France, and Germany. We're trying to
bring about a situation where South
Africa will withdraw from Namibia and
permit free elections to be held, based on
those same principles of majority rule.
We are down to just a few, mostly two,
remaining issues. One is the status of
Walvisbaai, which is a seaport there in
Namibia. The other one is how many
South African troops will be left in
Namibia during the election period, and
where they will be located.
We're making progress. I think it's
accurate to say that we have let our views
be known much more freely the last year
and a half than before. The South Af-
ricans know very clearly that we stand
for those principles that I have described
to you. And we will not change those
commitments at all.
1163
