Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
amended by Section 8 of Executive Order
No. 11556, is further amended as follows:
(a) Delete the first paragraph after the
heading "Executive Office Responsibili-
ties" and substitute therefor:
"The National Security Council shall be
responsible for Presidential policy options
concerning the development and opera-
tion of the National Communications Sys-
tem (NCS) and shall:".
(b) Delete the last two paragraphs in
that part of the memo headed "Executive
Office Responsibilities" and substitute
therefor:
"In performing these functions, the
National Security Council will consult
with the Secretary of Commerce, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, the Director of the Office of Sci-
ence and Technology Policy, and the Ad-
ministrator of General Services, as ap-
propriate; will establish arrangements for
interagency consultation to ensure that the
NSC will meet essential needs of all gov-
ernment agencies; and will be responsible
for carrying on the work formerly done by
the Subcommittee on Communications of
the Executive Committee of the National
Security Council. In addition to staff reg-
ularly assigned, the National Security
Council and the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy may ar-
range for the detail or temporary assign-
ment of communications and other
specialists from any agency.
"The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, in consultation with the
National Security Council, the Secretary
of Commerce, the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services, and the Executive Agent of
the NCS, will prescribe general guide-
lines and procedures for reviewing the fi-
nancing of the NCS within the budgetary
process and for preparation of budget esti-
mates by participating agencies.".
(c) In the paragraph after the heading
"Agency Responsibilities", delete "Di-
rector of the Office of Telecommunica-
tions Policy" and substitute therefor "Na-
tional Security Council."
6-102. The primary responsibility for
performing all administrative support
and service functions that are related to
functions transferred from the Office of
Telecommunications Policy and its Di-
rector to the President, including those
functions delegated or assigned within
the Executive Office of the President, are
transferred to the Office of Administra-
tion. The Domestic Policy Staff shall
perform such functions related to the
preparation of Presidential telecommuni-
cations policy options as the President
may from time to time direct.
6-103. The records, property, person-
nel, and unexpended balances of appro-
priations, available or to be made avail-
able, which relate to the functions
transferred, assigned, or delegated as pro-
vided in this Order are hereby transferred
as appropriate.
6-104. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make
such determinations, issue such orders,
and take all actions necessary or appro-
priate to effectuate the transfers or reas-
signments provided in this Order, in-
cluding the transfer of funds, records,
property, and personnel.
6-2. Amendments. In order to reflect the
transfers provided by this Order, the fol-
lowing conforming amendments and rev-
ocations are ordered:
6-201. Section 306 of Executive Order
No. 11051, as amended, is further
amended to read:
"Sec. 306. Emergency telecommunica-
tions. The Administrator of General
Services shall be responsible for coordinat-
ing with the National Security Council
604
