Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 24
to the Treaty or its Protocols, to take the
necessary steps so that the Treaty may
enter into full force and effect for the en-
tire zone of application.
I recommend that the Senate give
early and favorable consideration to Ad-
ditional Protocol I and give its advice
and consent to ratification, with the same
understandings and declarations attached
to United States ratification of Protocol
II, and with the additional understand-
ings and declarations concerning transit
and transport privileges, exercise of the
freedoms of the seas and passage through
territorial waters, which accompany the
report of the Department of State.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 24, 1978.
National Commission on the
International Year of the Child,
1979
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. May 24, 1978
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I am transmitting today a bill to pro-
vide for a National Commission on the
International Year of the Child, 1979.
Enactment of this legislation will en-
able the United States to participate fully
in celebrating 1979 as the International
Year of the Child, which was designated
by the United Nations General Assembly
by approval of a resolution of its thirty-
first session.
This National Commission will create
within the United States a better under-
standing of the needs of children, both
here and abroad, and will prepare a
report and recommendations on national
policies to meet these needs.
The powers granted to the National
Commission under this Act will be in
addition to those provided in Executive
Order 12053.
I urge its early passage.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker
of the House of Representatives, and Walter
F. Mondale, President of the Senate.
Ford Portraits Unveiling
Ceremony
Remarks on the Presentation to the White
House of the Portraits of the Former
President and First Lady. May 24, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. It's with a great deal
of pride that I come this afternoon to wel-
come back to the White House one of
my good friends, advisers, counselors, and
helpers in the difficult decisions that I as
President have to make, and which he
made so well when he occupied this home
and served in the Oval Office.
He's a man who came to lead our Na-
tion in a time of crisis and strain, and he
brought the capability and the attitude
and knowledge and experience to heal our
wounds. And the entire Nation is in-
debted to him. He's a man who is be-
loved and appreciated, and no one appre-
ciates him more than I do.
And it's also a pleasure for me and
Rosalynn to welcome his wife, Betty, who
I think is perhaps the most popular per-
son in our country, including Jerry Ford,
and certainly including myself, who has
earned the admiration of our Nation with
her courage and complete candor. And we
care for her, and I know that the people
of our country will be deeply moved and
appreciative to have these two portraits
hanging in the President's house.
963
