May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, I think at this time the prospect for
success in the conference committee is
very good. It's the first time I've been able
to say that in 13 months.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Q. Mr. President, what, if anything, has
been a new development in the Do-
minican Republic vote?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been three
very distinguished citizens there who were
invited in to monitor the outcome of the
election and the proper procedures used,
headed by Galo Plaza, who's a former
executive secretary of the OAS-Secre-
tary General. I understand that they are
now on the way back to OAS head-
quarters.
We have expressed, through diplomatic
channels and publicly, our deep concern
about the interference in the electoral
process by the Dominican Republic mili-
tary. We've been assured repeatedly by
Balaguer, the incumbent President, that
the votes would be counted and counted
honestly and that he would abide by the
result of the election. Our impression is
that the military does not want Guzmán
to be elected President. They want Bala-
guer to stay in office. And the military are
the ones who have interfered.
If it becomes obvious to us, after we
analyze the procedures used in the elec-
tion, that the will of the Dominican peo-
ple has been subverted by illegalities or
unwarranted interference in the demo-
cratic election process, this would have a
major effect on the support that we would
give to the future Dominican Govern-
ment, and my guess is that we would turn
then, also, to the Organization of Amer-
ican States for a thorough investigation of
what did occur there.
We are quite concerned about this-
we, the Venezuelans, the Colombians, the
Costa Ricans, and others--because we be-
lieve so deeply that democracy must be
improved among the nations of Latin
America on their own initiative. We're
not trying to interfere in the internal
affairs of another country. But there
are four other nations who presently are
committed to democratic elections in the
future, who now have military govern-
ments in varying forms. And I think if
we should have a demonstration in the
Dominican Republic, which is a very good
democracy up until now, that those prin-
ciples don't prevail, it would have an ad-
verse effect on the entire Southern
Hemisphere.
So, we are deeply concerned about it.
We'll do all we can without interfering
directly in the internal affairs of the
Dominican Republic to let our concern be
felt in a beneficial way.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Is this country about to establish
full diplomatic relations with Mainland
China?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't know yet.
Ever since President Nixon's highly pub-
licized visit to the People's Republic, we
have lived under the so-called Shanghai
Communique commitments. I have re-
confirmed my approval of those agree-
ments, which do call for a normalization
of relationships with the People's Repub-
lic of China.
Dr. Brzezinski is not going to Peking
to negotiate normalization. He's going
there to exchange ideas, to try to build
up a better relationship between ourselves
and the People's Republic, to enhance
trade, to search out mutual interests that
we have around the globe, and to let there
be a better understanding between us and
the people of Mainland China.
We recognize under the Shanghai Com-
munique that there is one China. We in-
sist that any differences between Taiwan
942
