May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
sigent challenges that we could possibly
face.
Neil Goldschmidt told me on the way
that he had studied it in detail, and he
thinks it's a remarkable achievement. It's
not based on new, expensive programs as
a cornerstone of the effort, but it's based
on making the present programs work
better and then adding only incrementally
in additional expenditures to round out
needs that previously have not been ad-
dressed.
It is a policy that calls for an effective
working alliance at all levels of govern-
ment, again with the private sector, in-
cluding business, labor, and just ordinary
citizens in their communities and neigh-
borhoods.
Its purpose is to serve individual com-
munities, not just the badly deteriorated
and damaged cities that are almost be-
yond salvation, not just the major metro-
politan urban centers, but even good,
sound, solid communities like Portland.
And Portland is a good example of what
can be accomplished with this kind of
cooperation that I've just described to
you.
Under the good leadership of Mayor
Goldschmidt and Governor Straub, the
city and State governments, business and
labor, the community groups, have been
working with the Economic Development
Administration, the EDA, to develop a
far-reaching economic investment strat-
egy for Portland.
I think this State probably had the
greatest reduction percentage-wise in un-
employment last year of any with which I
am familiar, almost 32 percent, a re-
markable achievement, which shows not
only good administration in Washington
and also in Oregon-[laughter]—but it
also shows that the people of Oregon
want to work if they are given a chance
and given an opportunity for a job.
This evening, I'm very pleased to be
able to announce some specific and sub-
stantial Federal support for the joint ef-
forts that I've just described. Through
the Economic Development Administra-
tion, $12 million will be provided during
the next 18 months to strengthen Port-
land's economy and to create 6,000 more
private jobs in your community.
This is a carefully evolved plan, ini-
tiated and, in effect, supervised by local
and State officials, not (federal) ¹ Govern-
ment officials. The first phase will re-
vitalize the northwest industrial district by
improving road access and other facilities.
EDA will provide about $22 million for
this purpose, about two-thirds of the total
cost. The second phase will improve the
Swan Island Industrial Park, develop
other [applause]-somebody is from
Swan Island-develop other industrial
facilities, and establish a revolving loan
fund for business expansion. It will start
in the coming fiscal year and will include
$9.6 million in Federal funds.
Our urban policies and assistance are
not just restricted to cities like your own.
We recognize that preserving the special
values of urban, suburban, and rural life
depends on realizing how interdependent
they are. There's no way for Portland to
thrive unless other communities around
you-up the river, down the river, up and
down the coast-thrive along with it.
There's no way for the urban dwellers
here to thrive, unless the forest timber
producers and the farmers and the live-
stock producers also thrive. We recognize
that preserving the special values of these
component parts of our society are crucial
to one another.
In this spirit, EDA has been working
with towns and communities in Oregon
on development projects involving fishing
industry development, tourism and
recreation, and light industrial park de-
industry
¹ Printed in the transcript.
854
