May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mr. President, welcome to Springfield.
We're honored to have you here.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH ISRAEL
SENATOR BERMAN. My question relates
to the concerns of the Jewish community
in relation to the State of Israel. Many of
us who have Jewish constituents and are
Jewish in this body have great apprehen-
sion that there's been a deviation from
the classic position of the United States
of a special relationship and a total com-
mitment to the security of Israel. We have
heard of this apprehension from our own
constituents, and I appreciate your office
has indicated that an aide would be will-
ing to meet with the Jewish legislators
after your meeting, but I don't think
that's necessary because I think this is
much more meaningful, and I appreciate
this opportunity.
I think the Jewish community is going
to be looking for deeds, but I would ask
you this morning to please comment on
what type of message we can bring back
to these people that are fearful of this
deviation, to reassure them of the total
commitment of your administration to
the security of Israel.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir. This
is one of those difficult questions that I
mentioned earlier.
The special relationship between the
United States and Israel still stands. Our
total commitment to Israel's security and
our hope for peace is still preeminent
among all the other considerations that
our Nation has in the Middle East.
I have spent more time on the Middle
Eastern question since I've been in the
White House than any other subject, not
just in analysis within our own group
and
with the Members of the Congress, who
are deeply interested about what our
country's position ought to be, but having
long, detailed, sometimes private conver-
sations with all the leaders of nations par-
ticipating in the potential or existing ne-
gotiations in the Middle East.
Israel has dominant air capability in
the Middle East, and that dominance
will even increase as a result of the recent
approved arms sales.
I don't know anyone in the world that
I am more convinced wants peace than
Anwar Sadat. When I met with him for
the first time early last year, he said to me,
"Mr. President, what is it that I can do to
break the deadlock that has existed for
years and years between us and Israel?”
I said, "First of all, you can negotiate di-
rectly with the leaders of Israel, not
through us as intermediaries." He said, "I
don't believe that's possible, Mr.
President."
I said, "You can break down the bar-
riers that have existed between Egyptians
and Israelis and the hatred that evolves
from constant radio broadcasts and prop-
aganda efforts." He said, "I believe I can
do that."
I said, "You can put forward a proposal
where in the future the borders between
Israel and Egypt will be open for trade,
tourism, student exchange, cultural ex-
change, even diplomatic recognition."
And he said, "That will never come in my
lifetime."
That was about a year ago. And there
has been a dramatic change since then.
Most of it took place, as you know, during
the November-December era, when Begin
received Sadat with open arms, and vice
versa. And both those leaders have told
me they were shocked at the warmth of
the reception of Israeli negotiators when
they arrived in Egypt, and of Sadat and
his negotiators when they arrived in Jeru-
salem. I think this proves that the people
in Egypt and Israel genuinely want peace.
Since then I've met with both leaders
extensively, and I'm convinced that if we
sever our relationship with the moderate
Arab nations, with Egypt-by far the
992
