Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
SALT negotiations with the Soviet Union.
This is good for our Nation's security. It's
good for the attitude of the whole world.
And it's good to ensure the deepest hope
of all humankind that we can have inter-
national peace. It's also incumbent on us
to have strong men like Claiborne Pell
who believe in a strong defense. And in
the negotiations with the Soviet Union,
which are going on every day, on a com-
prehensive test ban, and on limiting and
then reducing and hopefully, God willing,
in the future completely eliminating
atomic weapons from the face of the
Earth, he occupies a crucial position.
And it makes me feel much more sure
of myself to know that he is one of the
key Members of the Congress with whom
I have been and will be consulting in
those crucial times.
As a Coast Guard officer, he knows
the seas, and I feel a special kinship with
him there, because for 11 years, I was in
the U.S. Navy. And this is a time, I think,
that he additionally serves in exploring
how best to utilize and to protect the
riches of the sea. We're engaged in tough
negotiations in how to harvest the min-
erals and the fishes of the sea. And we
also have difficult decisions to be made
with a rapidly growing technological
world on how to preserve the purity of
the oceans and their openness to the use
by all nations. And he has that special
responsibility in the Foreign Relations
Committee.
He specializes in Europe, among all the
nations of the Earth. And as you have
noticed, I'm sure, in analyzing the priori-
ties that we've placed in our budget pro-
posals, we're trying to strengthen our ties
with the historic friends and relatives,
blood relatives, where our ancestors lived
in the nations of Europe.
NATO is one of our most important
alliances. We're not granting favors to
other people when we strengthen the
North Atlantic Treaty
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
We're defending our own country. And it
would be a devastating blow to have any
hope engendered in the minds of poten-
tial enemies of our friends in Europe be-
cause of a lack of strength on our part.
And so we're trying to increase the spirit
and the hopefulness and the confidence
and the cooperation that exist among us.
And there is his special focused responsi-
bility.
There are a lot of things that I could
talk about in foreign affairs, but I know
you are interested as well in domestic
matters. Claiborne Pell has been an in-
novator. I was at one of the first examples
of a health maintenance organization
today. And I saw people going to get
medical care, not after they became sick,
but to prevent sickness-tiny children and
grown people, as well, who form kind of
a family with medical personnel at a very
low cost to get good health care.
Our Nation now spends more of its
gross national product, we spend more
per person on health care by far than any
other Nation. And we still don't have good
health in our country. We rank 18th
among nations in life expectancy, and 14th
or 15th or 16th in other measures of good
health care, like infant mortality and the
incidence of severe diseases.
And we have to explore new ways to
provide better health care. And Claiborne
Pell was the author of the legislation that
set up this new approach to good health
care. I think we've caused too serious an
economic problem among the middle-in-
come families of this Nation. And because
of his innovation and hard work, we are
now proposing a drastic improvement in
college loans, college grants, and work-
study programs for students, to help the
middle-income families of the country.
340
