Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
have that happen, which we agree with
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
DR. AUSTEN. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. In his re-
marks, he referred to Frank Press, Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
For the text of Proclamation 4546, designat-
ing February as American Heart Month, see
page 89 of this volume.
Visit of President Sadat of Egypt
Remarks on the Departure of the Egyptian
President. February 8, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. It has been a great
personal pleasure for me and Rosalynn
to have President Sadat and his beautiful
wife, Jihan, and all their fine family with
us in our country for the last few days.
My talks with President Sadat for many
hours has given me a clear concept of his
own concerns at this important moment
in the peace process. We both share a de-
termination to reach peace in the Middle
East. And we've agreed to work closely
and personally together to realize this
goal.
I explained to President Sadat and he
well understands the deep commitment
of the United States to the security of
Israel. And he shares this commitment
that Israel will be secure. We also dis-
cussed at length the need to continue the
negotiating process, even with temporary
disappointments and delays, to achieve a
just and a lasting and a comprehensive
peace in the Middle East.
In helping the parties to find solutions
to the problems that separate them, the
United States will be guided by the need
to base a settlement on the full implemen-
tation of the principles of United Nations
Resolution 242 on all the fronts. We also
believe that a just solution to the Pales-
tinian question is essential.
President Sadat and I have agreed to
stay in close contact with one another in
the weeks ahead, as we continue the
search for a peaceful settlement in the
Middle East. As we continue down that
path, we recognize that the way is diffi-
cult. But we take inspiration from a vision
of what can be, of the goal that we both
seek, and we understand clearly the im-
portance of the stakes that we see involved
in this search for peace.
If we can succeed in this endeavor,
there will be a peace for an area that has
long known only war or the threat of
war; prosperity for a people whose wealth
has been too long allocated to weapons;
water and fertilizer and hard, productive
labor in lands and fields that have been
made barren by war or the threat of war,
by man and by nature; a new life for chil-
dren whose future can be dominated by
hope and life, rather than by conflict and
fear of death.
This is a vision that we share. There is
no nobler calling on this Earth than the
seeking for peace. For it is that reason
which caused the Bible to say that peace-
makers shall be called the sons of God.
I'm honored to be with the world's
foremost peacemaker, President Sadat,
and to share with him a partnership in
this worthy endeavor.
President Sadat, Jihan, and your fam-
ily, you have been welcomed here by me
and all the people of our country. We ad-
mire you deeply, and we know that with
your help and with your persistent coop-
eration, you, we, the Israelis, and others
in the Middle East can find what we all
search for so deeply, and that is perma-
nent peace in that troubled part of the
world.
290
