Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 3, 1978
Labor Disputes in the
Coal Industry
Remarks Announcing a Negotiated
Settlement. February 24, 1978
I've just talked on the telephone with
the representatives of the Bituminous Coal
Operators and also the United Mine
Workers. And I'm glad to announce that
the United Mine Workers and the coal
operators have agreed to a negotiated
settlement of their contract dispute.
This is the outcome toward which all
of us have been working so hard, espe-
cially Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall.
We've been devoted to this; it's one on
which our country should feel both grati-
tude and pride. It was because we be-
lieved in the free process of collective
bargaining that I have been so determined
to give that process every chance to work.
It has worked. And the settlement it has
produced is better for everyone in-
volved-for the mineworkers, the mine-
owners, and the public-than would have
been the drastic steps that I was prepared
to take this evening if the negotiating
process had failed.
Although a settlement has been
reached, it will not be final until it is
studied and democratically ratified by the
members of the United Mine Workers.
Before I close, I would like to speak di-
rectly to them.
The work you do in the mines is
sometimes dangerous and always diffi-
cult. No one can visit a coal mine, even
for a short time, as I have, without
coming away with a vivid sense of re-
spect and appreciation for the job you do.
Yours is a historic struggle. Whenever
there has been progress in the mines,
whenever there have been improvements
in pay or in safety conditions or in health
conditions, it's been because you fought
for it. Your dedication to justice in the
mines has been matched only by your
dedication to your country whenever it
needed you, whether in war or in peace-
time. The agreement that has been
reached today is no different. You
struggled for it, and it is a significant
achievement.
The choice is now yours to make. But
I hope that you will follow the lead of
your bargaining council and ratify the
negotiated settlement. This agreement
serves the national interest, as well as your
own interests and those of your families. If
it is not approved without delay, time will
have run out for all of us, and I will have
to take the drastic and unsatisfactory legal
action which I would have announced
tonight.
The miners and the operators share
with the public one overriding interest,
which is to resolve the long-term problems
of your industry.
419
