Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
in with massive intrusions, both of mili-
tary weapons, which contribute to further
bloodshed among Africans themselves,
and when they are permitted by the local
government, they send in large quantities
of troops. There are now more than
20,000 troops by Cuba in Angola. This
number has increased in the last 12
months. And we believe that in Ethiopia
there are more than 15,000 Cuban troops
there now, even though the armed combat
in the Ogaden area between Somalia and
Ethiopia is over.
I think drawing public opinion to this,
not only in our country but around the
world, has been relatively effective. We
now have the prospect of a further armed
outbreak between Eritrea and Ethiopia.
And I would hope that our expressions of
concern would induce the Cubans not to
become involved in that fighting itself.
I think it's time for the Cuban troops
to withdraw from Ethiopia. Ethiopia has
been heavily armed now by the rapid in-
trusion of Soviet weapons to them after
Somalia did attack in the Ogaden area. I
think Ethiopia is perfectly capable of de-
fending themselves without Cuban troops,
and it would certainly be contributory to
world peace if Cuba would withdraw. But
I think other than acting in a way to ac-
quaint the world with their actions, the
only other thing that we can do is,
through peaceful means, to provide some
strength to nations that do want to be au-
tonomous, that do want to see African
problems settled by African people them-
selves.
And we have provided a limited
amount of economic aid, some limited
military aid on occasion. The other thing
that we are trying to do is involve multi-
national organizations to help in control-
ling outside intrusion into Africa.
The Organization of African Unity is a
good organization, but it's been relatively
reluctant in the past to deal with very
controversial issues. And quite often the
African nations themselves are divided on
the controversial issues. The United Na-
tions is one to whom we have turned,
and we are working under the auspices
of the United Nations in trying to deal
with the Namibian question. I think you
know that in Rhodesia and Namibia, we
are working with other countries in try-
ing to bring about majority rule and a
peaceful settlement. We have had no help
at all from either the Cubans or the So-
viets, trying to deal with these very sensi-
tive questions.
So, I think these brief things that I've
outlined are some of the things, short of
armed involvement-which we do not in-
tend to do to bring about some lessen-
ing of the Cuban-Soviet intrusion into
Africa.
Q. I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
Q. President Nyerere has been critical,
at the same time, of our involvement in
Africa. There are people in your own
administration who have been critical,
who think that we've made too much of
the Cuban activities. Is there a possibility
that all the recent criticism may in some
way endanger potential resolution of
other more serious problems in Africa,
like Ethiopia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think any
military disturbance in Africa, when
exacerbated by the intrusion of foreign
troops and weapons, tends to spill over
across other borders. One of the things
that made it so important to draw the
line on Cuba and, hopefully, the Katan-
gans in the future, in the violation of
Zairian borders, was that principle of
leaving those international borders un-
disturbed.
I think the reason that Nyerere ex-
pressed concern was that he thought that
we were supporting a so-called pan-
African force, that we were developing a
1095
