Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
I know that in the past we've made
some very serious mistakes. The Vietnam
war, Watergate, the CIA revelations have
kind of torn the fabric of our society, be-
cause the American people were not in-
volved in making those decisions. We
were faced with mistakes for the first time
after they were revealed to us. And we
create, sometimes, in the minds of Amer-
ican people, an image that we don't know
exactly what we want to do.
I don't claim to know everything about
what we want to do. But we try to bring
the debate out into the open and let vari-
ous voices be heard, so that when I do
make a final decision about SALT talks
or nonproliferation, or the use of solar
power, or the control of the waste of
energy, or farm agriculture policy, or
urban policy, I will have listened to hun-
dreds, even thousands of voices of Amer-
icans who know better answers than I
do about a specific subject and who care
deeply about our country.
So, to me it's important that we do have
some confusion, that we do have an open
debate, that we do have disputes on oc-
casion and even outright criticisms. I
think that's good in a strong, democratic
society. I don't fear it. I also don't fear
addressing some very difficult questions
that have been ignored too long and have
now become crises in our Nation.
Well, now, in order to help me in that
process, I'm glad to respond to your
questions.
QUESTIONS
TAX REDUCTION AND REFORM
Q. Mr. President, my name is Corky
Burns, and, Mr. President, in examining
some current legislation, it seems appar-
ent that you support measures that will
strip the small businessman of some of the
tax advantages in regard to insurance,
welfare, and retirement plans. Since these
small businessmen are the foundation of
our free enterprise system, and often have
everything at risk, what justification is
there for such an attack on them?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Burns, thank you.
The overall thrust of the tax reform
and tax reduction package that I've pro-
posed would give $6 or $7 billion in de-
creased taxes, net, to the business com-
munity of our country; and another 18 or
so billion dollars in net decreases for the
private citizens of our country, many of
whom are involved as employees or em-
ployers in small business.
So, the net result of all these changes
would be a substantial reduction in in-
come taxes for almost every element of
our society. There are some changes that
ought to be made to eliminate loopholes
and special privileges that have been en-
joyed in the past. Those have been carved
out by people and by organizations that
have a very powerful and very effective
lobby existent in the past and now on Cap-
itol Hill.
I'm a small businessman myself. I ran,
before I became President and went to
Washington, a farm and a farm supply
center. I employed between 10 people and
sometimes 50 or 60 people in the harvest
season in Georgia. And I know the diffi-
culty in dealing with the Federal Gov-
ernment.
Later on, within the next 12 months,
we'll have at the White House a Small
Business Conference. We are studying now
what can be done to improve the life and
the profitability of American small busi-
ness. But if specific items are removed as
a tax privilege from those who own small
businesses, it's just to make more equi-
table and simpler our entire income tax
structure.
The net result is for small business-
you'll pay less taxes. And the overall net
result is that some of the special privileges
that have been enjoyed by business will
863
