Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
power is kind of a last resort, a necessary need it yet. I think if it were built as pres-
evil?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, when
I say
"last resort," a phrase that I used
throughout the campaign and have used
as President, too, it doesn't mean that it's
a necessary evil. My own position is that
we ought to have conservation of energy
as a first priority-in fact, if I have to
put them in an order, to cut down on the
waste of all kinds of energy.
Secondly, we ought to try to use as
much as possible of our oil and gas in
this country, rather than importing very
expensive oil and gas, which causes us
to have balance of payments problems.
We ought to shift to other forms of en-
ergy. Coal would be one. I would say I
would rather shift to solar than coal. But
there's a legitimae place for nuclear
power in our country.
My background is in nuclear power
production, as you know. In the early
stages of the development, before there
was a nuclear powerplant in existence.
in the world, I worked in this program.
And I was active early this past Decem-
ber in a highly publicized ceremony to
put into operation and to connect with
the power grid of our country the first
thorium breeder reactor.
But I think we ought to have a realiza-
tion that nuclear power should fill in the
gap between those other sources of energy
and what our Nation's total needs are.
We've just approved an agreement
with the Iranians where that country,
very rich in oil, can purchase atomic re-
actors from our own Nation, which I
think will bring in a lot of job opportuni-
ties for Americans.
The major dispute has been on whether
or not we should go forward immediately
with the Clinch River liquid metal fast
breeder reactor. I don't think we should.
I don't think it's time. I don't think we
ently designed, it would be outdated by
the time it was completed. It's extraordi-
narily expensive.
But we still have allocated, with my
complete support and approval, almost a
billion dollars for research and develop-
ment in the breeder reactor field. And I
think this has been the major item that
has been highly publicized that has caused
concern in Tennessee.
So, I'd say that within that framework,
there's a legitimate role for atomic power
to play. If there are constraints in the
future on light water reactors, it won't be
because of obstacles placed in their way
by the Government. It will be other prob-
lems that might prevent their being
widely used in this country, economic
problems, primarily.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
Q. Ladies before gentlemen.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
TOBACCO PRICE SUPPORTS
Q. I am Linette Burton from the Wil-
ton, Connecticut, Bulletin. I happen, by
pure chance, to be sitting in the seat that
really belongs to Mr. Califano, which
made me think that isn't it odd that while
the United States Government continues
its price support of the tobacco industry,
Mr. Califano has come out so strongly
against smoking?
As
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's odd.
you know, Connecticut produces a lot
of tobacco, and so does Georgia.
[Laughter]
Q. That's not why I asked. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think that this
is not particularly odd. The price support
program is designed to provide stability
in the agricultural community. Tobacco
is produced in this country. It has been
produced in this country for more than
72
