Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
groups that make up the Democratic
Party's strength. I'm grateful, John, that
you're here.
I would like to say a word about the
titular head of the Democratic Party, and
that's myself. I came to Washington for
the first time just about a year ago. And
we had a massive program to propose,
campaign commitments to honor, a Con-
gress for me to learn about, and a quiz-
zical American public about a newcomer
to national politics whom they really
didn't know.
I had to do hundreds of hours of per-
sonal study about the history and present
circumstances concerning the Middle
East, Africa, Latin America, Panama,
SALT, comprehensive test bans, domestic
programs. And I have to admit to you
that in many instances, I put those re-
sponsibilities ahead of my responsibilities
to the Democratic National Committee.
I don't think you've had the support that
was needed from the White House. But I
don't have to restudy those issues. I've
become fairly well educated, and now I
can keep up with changing circumstances.
This year, there will be a much closer al-
legiance and alliance from the White
House toward the Democratic National
Committee and I-[inaudible].
I was elected with your help to lead
this country. I feel at ease with the job of
President, primarily because I don't feel
alone. I have a partnership with you be-
cause we are bound together with a com-
mon purpose and common beliefs, a com-
mon history as Democrats, to let politics
and government be used to deal with hu-
man needs, not to disappoint those who
trust us, not to be timid when severe
challenges arise, not to apologize when
we inherit longstanding problems that are
not easy to solve. And I look forward to
this year, working with you with a great
deal of anticipation, determination, and
confidence.
In the political world and, I think,
particularly here in Washington, there is
an excessive and predictable and under-
standable emphasis on the disharmonies,
on the arguments and contentions and
strong debates. There's an emphasis on
failure in minor points, even though the
general effort may have been successful.
But what we need to maintain is an-
other characteristic of Democrats, and
that is optimism about the future, pride
in what our Nation is, and the determina-
tion to make it even better. We live in the
greatest nation on Earth. Economically
we are strong; militarily, strong; politi-
cally, strong; morally, strong; admired,
not feared in the rest of the world.
I think we have the trust of the Amer-
ican people. It's incumbent on me every
minute of every day never to betray that
trust. It's important for me not to let a
wall be built between me and the rest of
the country and to capitalize not only on
my personal encounters with American
people over the 2 years of campaigning
but also, through you, to be constantly
aware of new developments and new con-
cerns and new hopes and new dreams of
those who look to you for leadership and
who recognize that you have a direct ac-
cess to me through your responsibilities as
leaders of our party.
That partnership is crucial in deter-
mining whether or not my own adminis-
tration in the White House is successful.
There are times when you can bridge the
gap perhaps between myself and the Con-
gress, because no matter how hard I try
from the perspective of opposite ends of
Pennsylvania Avenue, a good Member of
Congress is much more concerned about
and amenable to expressions of belief and
importunities from his own constituents.
And that's where, again, you are there,
and you can help to identify problems and
to remove those problems before they be-
come critical or damaging to a successful
Democratic administration that encom-
226
