Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
clear strength. Here our technological ad-
vantage over the Soviet Union is most
apparent. We are building cruise missiles,
which together with upgraded B-52s will
assure the capability of this element of
our Triad. We are continuing to develop
the M-X missile system in case we need to
deploy them. In this budget, I am request-
ing funds for continued increase in our
Trident submarine force, which is our
in scope; a foreign policy which recognizes
global diversity; and a foreign policy
which builds a more just and stable inter-
national system.
The White House,
January 19, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
most important strategic program because Economic Report and Tax and
submarines are so hard for any enemy to
destroy.
-With our NATO Allies we are trying
to improve the initial combat capability
of NATO forces. We will improve the
readiness of critical combat units, enhance
American capability to send ground and
tactical air forces reinforcements, and in-
crease our permanent forces there. To lay
the foundation for future improvements,
the budget I propose requests 18% in-
creases in the procurement of equipment
for the Army. The United States is not
taking these steps alone; we are partici-
pating in a mutual effort.
-The importance of sea forces to
United States national security is undis-
puted. The Navy receives the largest share
of the defense budget, and I am request-
ing funds to continue its modernization.
But, we need to examine the appropriate
size and mix of United States naval forces
in the future. Therefore, I have deferred
spending for new aircraft carriers until a
current Defense Department study is
completed early this year. While we main-
tain our naval strength, we should have
the capability to deploy rapidly a light
but effective combat force worldwide, if
necessary, without overseas base support.
To this end, I am requesting funds for a
vigorous airlift enhancement program.
In these and other ways, we are seeking
to develop a foreign policy which is wider
Budget Messages
Remarks at the Signing Ceremony.
January 20, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. It's a pleasure this morn-
ing to come and sign three very important
documents, I think, which describe what
our Nation has done this past year and
what we expect to do this coming year
and in the years afterwards.
As I mentioned last night in my State
of the Union speech, the economy has
made great progress in 1977, and we hope
through proper economic decisions and
careful planning and cooperation between
me, the Congress, and the public sector of
our Nation, to continue this progress dur-
ing 1978.
We anticipate that the increase in the
gross national product will be almost 5
percent, that the unemployment rate will
continue to go down-perhaps not as
rapidly as in 1977, but at a steady pace—
and that we can indeed control inflation.
We have a strong economy. Our Nation
adverse monthly reports that we are still
quite often forgets in transient times of
the strongest nation on Earth. We've been
blessed with a free enterprise system that
encourages initiative. We've been given
great natural resources by God, and we've
husbanded them very well and we can
do better. And I think we have an at-
123
