May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Chicago, Illinois
Remarks at the 1978 Cook County
Democratic Dinner. May 25, 1978
[The fundraising dinner was held in several
rooms at the Conrad Hilton Hotel. Following
his arrival at the hotel, the President attended
a reception in the Imperial Suite for head table
guests and then spoke to the group assembled
in the Williford Room. He then proceeded to
the Waldorf Room, and his remarks follow:]
President Dunne, Mayor Bilandic, Cook
County Democratic friends:
It's an honor for me to be here with you
tonight, a group of 7,000 Cook County
Democrats who have come to reaffirm the
principles in which you believe and which
have been the basis on which the strength
of the Cook County Democratic organiza-
tion has been built.
Throughout our Nation, in the rural
precincts of southwest Georgia where I
live, in Hawaii, in California, throughout
the country, there is a feeling of confi-
dence in the loyalty and the effectiveness
of perhaps the greatest Democratic orga-
nization in our country, the one here in
Cook County.
I'm very proud to be part of you, to
come into this family group, because
there's a close-knit nature in Cook County
which surprises the press, surprises the
Republicans on election day, is brought
about because of the fact that you've
worked together like a family.
The last time I was here, I was nervous
and frightened, but I was in the presence
of a great man who was a personal friend
of mine, Mayor Daley. And tonight, I am
in the presence of a personal friend of
mine, a great man, the successor of Mayor
Dick Daley, Mike Bilandic.
I think one of the most crucial things
in our country these days is for us to re-
member who gives us Democratic Party
members and leaders strength, why we've
been the majority party in this country for
the last 50 years, how you've been able to
choose both Democratic Party members
and candidates for local office, State office,
and those who went to Washington from
your State year after year, election after
election-it's because when people are
chosen in a position of leadership in Cook
County, you demand from them two
things: One is a closeness to you, and the
second one is superb, constant service, so
that the average person who might be
poor, who might be illiterate, who might
be very old or very young, feels that each
one has an access into the heart of gov-
ernment.
That is what you demonstrate on a
weekly basis, because you have access to
your aldermen, you have access to your
committee men and women, perhaps more
than any other people in our country. And
that closeness is what binds our party to-
gether. It reminds us where we get our
strength, and it pays off on election day.
I have every confidence that this No-
vember it's going to be a great celebration
and all of you are going to take part in
it because of a Democratic victory again.
Thank you very much for letting me be
with you.
[The President spoke at 7:14 p.m. Following
his remarks, he spoke to dinner guests in three
other rooms at the hotel, and then addressed
the guests in the Grand Ballroom as follows:]
I was just passing through the neigh-
borhood. I thought I would stop by and
see you tonight.
I met George and Mike out on the
street, and they said, "Why don't you
come on inside? We've got a room full of
dedicated, closely knit, hard-working, suc-
cessful Democrats assembled." And I
wonder if I came to the right place. Did
I? [Applause]
For 2 years, in 1975 and 1976, I trav-
eled around our great country in every
State. At the beginning of my campaign,
no one knew who I was. I was often
timid and afraid and lonesome. But every
time I came into Chicago, I not only saw
980
