Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
budget balance is the large deficit in
America's foreign trade in goods and
services. Imports into the United States
have been swollen by the enormous
quantity of oil we buy abroad to drive
our cars, heat our homes, and fuel our
industry. Our exports have grown only
slowly, in large measure because eco-
nomic growth abroad has been much
slower than in the United States. As a
result, the United States last year re-
corded a deficit of close to $18 billion in
our current international accounts. This
deficit has the same general effect on
economic activity as a multibillion dollar
increase in taxes.
Enactment of an effective energy pro-
gram ultimately will reverse our growing
dependence on oil imports. Moreover,
economic growth in other countries
should be improving over the next few
years. But we may expect a current ac-
count deficit of some size to continue in
the near future.
If strong economic expansion is to be
maintained in the face of these major
drains on the economy, additional tax re-
ductions may be necessary beyond those I
have proposed for 1979. But we will be
better able to judge this question in a
year or two, and we should not prejudge
it now.
In formulating my budgetary decisions
thus far, I have been careful to avoid com-
mitments that would make it impossible
for us to balance the budget by 1981. With
unusually strong growth in the private
economy, we would need a balanced Fed-
eral budget. In an economy growing less
strongly, however, balancing the budget
by 1981 would be possible only by for-
going tax reductions needed to reach our
goal of high employment. In those cir-
cumstances, the date for reaching the goal
of budget balance would have to be
deferred.
What is important is that the planning
and execution of Federal fiscal policies
proceed in a prudent manner. Every de-
cision on spending and taxes during my
Administration has been, and will con-
tinue to be, made in the context of long-
run budgetary planning that avoids the
creation of excess demand during periods
of high employment. That is an essential
ingredient of responsible budgetary policy.
PROGRAMS TO ATTACK THE PROBLEM OF
STRUCTURAL UNEMPLOYMENT
Meaningful job opportunities ought to
be available for all Americans who wish
to work. But overall fiscal and monetary
policy alone will not provide employment
to many in our Nation. If we are to reduce
unemployment satisfactorily, we must do
more.
Eleven percent of adult American
workers from minority groups are now
jobless close to the rate a year ago, and
over twice as high as the unemployment
rate for white adults. About 17 percent
of our teenagers are unemployed today;
among black teenagers the unemploy-
ment rate is nearly 40 percent. These in-
tolerably high rates of unemployment
must be brought down. This is an im-
portant goal, but achieving it will be a
difficult task.
A generally healthy and growing econ-
omy is a prerequisite for dealing effec-
tively with structural unemployment, but
it is not enough. Even in good times some
groups suffer from very high unemploy-
ment, which adds to the difficulty of
achieving low unemployment and low in-
flation simultaneously. As the economy
moves toward high emplovment, employ-
ers try to fill job vacancies from those
groups of workers with substantial train-
137
