Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
for some form of national health insur-
ance will be kept on the back burner.
As you know, it's been over 30 years
since Harry Truman first proposed that
the United States join the other progres-
sive countries in the Western World pro-
viding its low- and middle-income citi-
zens some protection from unexpected
medical costs that wipe out savings and
financially ruin families.
My question, Mr. President, is, how
long will it be before Congress and the
executive branch finally join hands in pro-
viding protection to those citizens who
cannot afford adequate medical care?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I've
been in office now for 13 months. And
most of the problems that affect our Na-
tion I inherited. And I think that this past
year has been a good opportunity for us to
address those difficult questions.
Energy-we've never had a compre-
hensive energy proposal put forward. [In-
audible]-I'm working on with the spe-
cial committees involved, reorganization
of the Federal Government, the estab-
lishment of a new Department of Energy,
the economic stimulus package which was
so successful last year in bringing down
the unemployment rate. In fact the unem-
ployment rate dropped about 3 percent
in New England from an average of about
82 percent down to about 52 percent.
We've also, on the foreign field, gotten
deeply involved in the Middle East in a
comprehensive settlement effort, and the
Panama Canal treaties are a very difficult
political question that are not popular,
but are crucial to our Nation.
I know that Congress has been hard at
work trying to deal with these ques-
tions, and so far, their final decisions have
been very good on all these matters. I will
present to the Congress, before the end
of this session, legislation on a national
health insurance program.
We've been working on this now for
about a year. It is accurate to say that un-
til we get the energy legislation, welfare,
tax reform, tax reduction, out of the Ways
and Means Committee in the House and
the Finance Committee in the Senate, on
which, as you know, Senator Hathaway
serves, I don't think they can handle the
health care question.
I've met with Senator Kennedy on
this subject, and my guess is that his com-
mittee will begin working early in the
summer or late in the spring. But we will
present to the Congress a comprehensive
health plan before they adjourn this year.
And I would guess that next year would be
the time for the Congress to take action
on this legislation.
MENTAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, my name is James
Clark, and I reside in Hermon, Maine.
Mr. President, I realize that you have
a national commission studying the Na-
tion's mental health needs and that that
Commission will report to you around
April 1. The anticipated report of the
Commission notwithstanding, would you
please tell us tonight some of the specific
improvements that you would like to see
in the Nation's system of mental health
care?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, before
I was President I was Governor of Geor-
gia for 4 years, and my wife, Rosalynn,
and I both undertook the mental health
program in our State as a major new
task. We were successful then in putting
into effect a strong preventive care pro-
gram, and an attempt, through diet and
through education in the prenatal months
of a mother's life and also in the early
stages of a child's life, to prevent future
mental illnesses.
We also emphasized the shift away
from incarceration in large mental in-
348
