Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
this. I don't expect to come back here 15
years later, again, 15 years from now as a
parent of one of these Presidential
Scholars, but I feel like a child of the pro-
gram in many other ways, having been
here when it was born 15 years ago.
Thank you so much.
NOTE: The ceremony began at 11:05 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House. Mr.
Pressly is Chairman of the Commission on
Presidential Scholars.
Following the President's remarks, Joseph
A. Califano, Secretary, and Mary Berry, As-
sistant Secretary for Education, Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, presented
the medallions to the high school students
selected as Presidential Scholars for 1978. For
a list of the students, see page 764 of this
volume.
Federal Trade Commission
Nomination of Robert Pitofsky To Be a
Member. May 25, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert Pitofsky, of Chevy
Chase, Md., to be a member of the Fed-
eral Trade Commission. He would re-
place Calvin J. Collier, resigned.
Pitofsky was born December 27, 1929,
in Paterson, N.J. He received a B.A. from
New York University in 1951 and an
LL.B. from Columbia Law School in
1954.
In 1956 and 1957, Pitofsky was an at-
torney with the Justice Department, and
from 1957 to 1963, he practiced law in
New York City. From 1963 to 1970, he
was a professor of law at New York Uni-
versity School of Law.
From 1970 to 1973, Pitofsky was Di-
rector of the Bureau of Consumer Protec-
tion of the Federal Trade Commission.
Since 1973 he has been a professor of law
at Georgetown University Law Center,
and a counsel to the Washington firm of
Arnold & Porter.
Pitofsky is chairman of the board of
directors of Georgetown University Law
Center's Institute for Public Interest Rep-
resentation. He served as commission
counsel to the American Bar Association
Commission to Study the FTC. He is the
author of numerous articles on consumer
protection and trade regulation law.
Federal Mine Safety and Health
Review Commission
Nomination of Three Members.
May 25, 1978
The President today announced the
nomination of three persons to be mem-
bers of the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Review Commission. They are:
Frank F. Jestrab, of Williston, N. Dak.,
for a 6-year term. Jestrab, 64, is an attor-
ney in Williston. He serves on the Na-
tional Conference of Commissioners on
Uniform State Laws, and represents the
Governor of North Dakota on the Inter-
state Oil Compact Commission.
A. E. Lawson, of Pittsburgh, Pa., for a
6-year term. Lawson, 48, is assistant gen-
eral counsel of the United Steelworkers
of America. He has handled a broad
range of litigation before trial and appel-
late courts as well as administrative tri-
bunals such as the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission.
Marian P. Nease, of Sumner, Md., for
a 4-year term. Nease, 38, is special counsel
to the United Mine Workers Health and
Retirement Funds.
The Commission was created by the
Federal Mine Enforcement Safety and
Health Amendments Act of 1977 to serve
as an independent agency to adjudicate
disputes under the act.
971
