June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
National YMCA Youth
Governors Conference
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the
Program. June 30, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, every-
body. I'm very grateful to have you come
here to meet with me. When I was in
Georgia as Governor, this was one of the
exciting things about my life, one of the
more pleasant things that I had to do with
government. I know that you've enjoyed
your visit here to Washington, which is
probably your first official visit to our
Capital, and this is also my first official
visit to the Capital. [Laughter] And we've
got another thing in common in the fact
that we all either are Governors or have
been Governors.
You've had an almost unique oppor-
tunity to see the inner workings of our
Government in a concentrated way-
brief, but concentrated. I know you've met
with David Rubenstein and Jim Fallows
on my staff. And I hope that was produc-
tive for you, to explain what did occur
in the White House, at least from their
point of view.
And you've had a chance to meet with
Members of Congress, to see that branch
of Government. You were here when an
historic decision was made by the Su-
preme Court.
One of the things that I would like to
mention specifically as a problem of mine
is the historical, constitutional delineation
among the different branches of Govern-
ment, and the fact that that distinction
is being clouded considerably in recent
years, in particular, in recent months. The
Executive has to have the right or the
prerogative or the authority to execute,
to carry out laws of Congress and to do it
efficiently and economically and effec-
tively. And more and more, the hands of
the executive branch are tied by intru-
sions from other branches of Government.
We have this as a constant problem in
the Cabinet.
This is something with which you can
help us. I think that in the past, the de-
cisions made by the Youth Governors and
your other State officials in the YMCA-
Reader's Digest program have been very
good influences on State legislatures. I
noticed in preparing for this brief visit
with you that more than 400 bills that
have been introduced by Youth Gover-
nors and their cabinet have later been
adopted by State legislatures.
Quite often, you have an innovative
attitude and a perspective that might lead
the way for the regular assistant Gover-
nors and State legislatures to carry out.
And I think here you might inquire into
some of the problems that I face as a
President, and through your own initia-
tive decide what ought to be done and
keep the momentum going toward resolu-
tion of problems that you detect while
you're here in Washington.
We're trying to evolve a national energy
policy. We've not been successful so far.
But the Congress is making some very
slow, tedious, but I think steady, progress.
We are trying to restrain the threat of
world destruction through nuclear explo-
sives with the SALT agreement, a com-
prehensive test ban agreement. The Con-
gress passed a very good nonproliferation
law since I've been in office to try to hold
down the spread of atomic weaponry
around the world.
We are also trying to deal with some of
our social programs. This time last year,
the most pressing problem for me was
employment. We've had notable success
in that. Now, correlated with it, inti-
mately bound to it is the problem of in-
flation. We are trying to hold down infla-
tionary pressures, and there I think you
can help again.
1210
