Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and potential customers on cruises and
fishing trips. Another small company de-
ducts over $100,000 a year to maintain
hunting and fishing lodges to entertain
employees of customers. Asking taxpayers
to subsidize these kinds of activities for a
tiny minority of our citizens strikes at the
fairness and integrity of the tax system.
(3) Business Meals. Fifty percent of
currently deductible business entertain-
ment expenses for food and beverages will
remain deductible, and 50 percent will be
disallowed. A substantial portion of busi-
ness meal expenses represents the cost of
personal consumption that must be in-
curred regardless of the business connec-
tion. The millions of Americans who work
on farms, in factories and in offices should
not be required to provide their tax dol-
lars to support the high-priced lunches
and dinners of a relatively small number
of taxpayers. The 50 percent disallowance
represents a reasonable and fair approach
to compensate for the untaxed personal
benefit involved.
(4) Foreign Conventions. Many pro-
fessional, business, and trade organiza-
tions can furnish their members with tax-
deductible foreign vacations. The method
of conferring such tax-subsidized luxury is
to sponsor a foreign convention or semi-
nar. A brochure for one professional orga-
nization provides the appropriate atmos-
phere in promoting its foreign seminars:
"Decide where you would like to go this
year: Rome. The Alps. The Holy Land.
Paris and London. The Orient. Cruise
the Rhine River or the Mediterranean.
Visit the islands in the Caribbean. De-
light in the art treasures of Florence."
The Tax Reform Act of 1976 placed
some limits on the deductibility of foreign
convention expenses. But the rules still
permit taxpayers to take two foreign vaca-
tions a year partially at public expense-
an exception that did not escape the at-
tention of the organization whose 1977
brochure I have quoted.
I am proposing that the deductibility
rules for foreign conventions be modified
in a manner that will curb abuses while
relaxing the current restrictions on con-
ventions held in foreign countries for legit-
imate business purposes. The two con-
vention rule will be stricken. In its place
will be a rule that denies deductibility for
foreign convention
foreign convention expenses unless factors
such as the purpose and membership of
the sponsor make it as reasonable to hold
the convention outside the United States
and possessions as within.
(5) First Class Air Fare. Another ex-
ample of public support for private ex-
travagance is the deductibility of first class
air fare. Business travel constitutes a legit-
imate cost of producing income. How-
ever, the business purpose is served by
purchasing a ticket at coach fare. The un-
due generosity of a deduction for first
class air fare was recognized by Congress
in 1976 when a deduction was denied for
first class flights to foreign conventions.
I propose that the rule be extended to
tickets for domestic business travel.
Tax Shelters
Through tax shelters, persons can use
"paper" losses to reduce taxes on high in-
comes from other sources. These shelter
devices can slash the effective tax rate for
many affluent individuals far below that
of average income Americans. Moreover,
such shelters attract investment dollars
away from profit-seeking businesses and
into ventures designed only for tax write-
offs; legitimate businesses suffer competi-
tive disadvantages as a result.
In the Tax Reform Act of 1976, Con-
gress enacted reforms intended to restrict
tax shelter abuses. The principal methods
used in that legislation were revisions of
the minimum tax and the adoption of an
166
