Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
T
I know that you understand these obli-
gations. During the last generation, many
of our most important advances toward
racial integration and protection of our
people against government and its abuse
have been made through the courts.
I heard the comments a few minutes
ago about Chief Justice Earl Warren, who
has been an inspiration to all of us who
serve in government. But let me mention
briefly four challenges that we should
face in order to improve justice in
America: first, in making criminal jus-
tice fairer, faster, more sensible, and more
certain; second, in holding the law to
the highest standards of impartiality, hon-
esty, and fairness; third, in ensuring that
access to the legal systems does not de-
pend on political influence or economic
power; and fourth, in reducing our over-
reliance on litigation, and speeding up
those cases that are litigated.
Our starting point in ensuring justice
is to reduce crime through measures that
are effective and fair.
There was encouraging progress in this
direction last year, when the volume of
crime fell for the first time in many years
by 4 percent below the previous year's
level. It's a welcome development, but it
does not change the urgent need to con-
trol crime. States and local governments
must take the lead in this effort, but the
Federal Government must do its part.
We should streamline the Federal
Criminal Code, which now contains many
provisions which overlap, duplicate one
another, are inconsistent, and need up-
grading. With the leadership of Senators
Eastland and Kennedy and the late
Senator McClellan, a 12-year effort re-
cently culminated in Senate passage of
this new, comprehensive criminal code,
I hope the House will pass it this year
without delay.
We are working with congressional
leaders to reorganize the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Agency, to gear our fund-
ing system to our most pressing needs,
to provide better support for State and
local governments, and to concentrate our
help on improving the criminal justice
system and reducing crime. I'll propose
a consolidation and a reorganization of
many of the functions now performed by
more than 110 different Federal agencies
that have direct responsibility for law
enforcement.
We can reduce the tremendous over-
load on our criminal justice system by re-
moving such crimes as drunkenness and
vagrancy from the courts, thereby freeing
the courts to deal with serious offenses
and enabling us to treat these social ill-
nesses in ways that offer a greater hope
of success than conviction and incarcera-
tion.
standards for Federal offenses, which will
I'm supporting uniform sentencing
make the punishment for crimes more ra-
tional and fair and will help ensure that
the rich and the poor are treated alike, no
matter what court might convict them.
Powerful white-collar criminals cheat
consumers of millions of dollars; public
officials who abuse their high rank dam-
age the integrity of our Nation in pro-
found and longlasting ways. But too of-
ten, these bigshot crooks escape the full
consequences of their acts. Justice must be
blind to rank, power, and position. The
Justice Department is now undertaking a
major new effort on white-collar crime.
I've directed the Justice Depart-
ment also to review our prison policy
and propose alternatives to incarceration,
such as stationhouse citations, supervised
release, work-release programs, and
other community-based facilities.
I urge all judges and all lawyers to use
your enormous influence to make these
efforts a success.
837
