Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 11
you've had a good time coming to the
White House. It was an experience that
I never had. [Laughter]
And I want to express my thanks again
for the great coverage that we've gotten
from you both approbation and criti-
cism—it's very helpful. Every night about
9:30 or 10 o'clock, I get a news summary
of, guess, 8 or 10 pages, that comes
upstairs to the White House. And it has
selected editorial comments from, I think,
about 200 papers in the Nation.
We have a summary of each item on the
evening network news and how many sec-
onds were devoted to that subject. And
we have the AP and UPI reports that
come to me that evening. And of course,
I read a lot of newspapers and magazines
myself. But the feedback from around the
country on a daily basis, or even more fre-
quently, serves as a great guide to us
about what the needs of our people are.
We quite often detect the unsuccessful
administration of a program or an un-
detected need from what you report to
your own readers and listeners and
viewers. And I just want to thank you for
giving me this chance to reestablish a good
relationship with you, at least as far as
communications goes.
You know, I don't know all the answers.
I've learned a lot in this past year. And I
think we've got a good working relation-
ship with the Congress that perhaps did
not exist 8 or 10 months ago. I've learned
about them. They've learned about me.
And there's an ease of communication
and exchange of ideas that didn't exist
this time last year.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on February 11.
Labor Disputes in the Coal
Industry
Statement by the President.
February 11, 1978
In recent weeks I have been following
closely developments in the coal strike.
Earlier this week it appeared that the
impasse might be over when the bargain-
ers reached a tentative agreement on a
new contract.
Recent events, however, have slowed
and, perhaps, threatened ratification of
that contract. At the same time, the situ-
ation in some areas of the country has
become a matter of increasing concern.
Voluntary power cutbacks have become
widespread in the east-central region, cen-
tering in Ohio, and several utilities have
ordered mandatory cutbacks to industrial
customers. More such cutbacks will follow
even if the strike is settled soon, and em-
ployment impacts will be felt shortly.
In view of the uncertainties of the cur-
rent situation, I have instructed members
of my Cabinet to accelerate planning and
preparation for any contingencies that
may arise from continuation of the strike.
-I have asked the Secretary of Labor,
working in close cooperation with the Fed-
eral Mediation and Conciliation Service,
to continue efforts to facilitate the collec-
tive bargaining process.
-I have asked the Secretary of Energy
(1) to identify and plan for possible
shortage, and (2) to continue his efforts
movements of coal to points of critical
to ensure maximum possible electric
power transfer into the affected region
from other electric utility systems not af-
fected by the coal strike.
-I have asked the Administrator of
General Services to ensure that all Fed-
eral facilities in the affected region reduce
their
power consumption to minimum
necessary levels, effective immediately.
-I have instructed the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency
313
