Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
superb capabilities to me and to you Savannah, Georgia
today.
We also have seen the supporting ships,
and I know that you see the importance
to a carrier operation to have that close
teamwork. The Nation depends on you,
and I'm proud to be the Commander in
Chief of a group of men as well-qualified,
as deeply dedicated, as patriotic and cou-
rageous as all of you.
On behalf of the people of the United
States, I would like to thank you for what
you do for our country and for freedom
and peace around the world.
God bless every one of you. I'm proud
of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. to
crewmembers assembled on Hanger Deck No.
2 of the aircraft carrier.
Labor Disputes in the Coal
Industry
Statement Issued Following a District Court
Denial To Extend the Temporary Restraining
Order. March 17, 1978
The court decision shows that the
Remarks at the Hibernian Society Dinner.
March 17, 1978
President Gignilliat, Senator Talmadge,
Senator Nunn, Congressman Bo Ginn,
Mayor Rousakis, and fellow Irishmen:
As many of you know, this is one of the
few times in the last 10 years that I have
missed a St. Patrick's Day Parade in Sa-
vannah, and it was a sad day for me be-
cause of that reason. But the memories of
past St. Patrick's Days in Savannah have
left an indelible impression on my mind
and on my heart. I remember how diffi-
cult it was for me to get an invitation to
the Hibernian Society banquet. [Laughter]
I remember the first year that I was
running for Governor of Georgia with a
great number of well-known and distin-
guished opponents. Toby Buttimer was in
a car pretty much at the end of the line
in the parade. He asked me to ride with
him. And when I approached the start-
ing point of the parade, a very irate minor
official among the parade marshals came
forward and said, "Young man, what
country has responded well in dealing right do you have to ride in the parade?”
with the effects of the coal strike. We have
had some success in moving coal, and the
Taft-Hartley temporary restraining order
has aided in opening up hundreds of coal
mines.
The judge has found that as of now a
national emergency no longer exists. An-
other hearing will be held on March 28.
I continue to hope that the collective
bargaining process will be successful and
bring about an end to the strike. We will
be monitoring coal shipments closely and
will be prepared to seek a permanent in-
junction at the March 28 hearing if a
negotiated settlement has not been
reached by that time.
NOTE: The statement was released at Savan-
nah, Ga.
It's something that I'll never forget. His
name was Nick Kenny. [Laughter] And I
sincerely hope as President that you've not
let him have anything to do with the
parade since then. [Laughter]
There's only one city in Georgia about
which I've ever made this statement:
Savannah's my favorite city of all, be-
cause you present to Georgia and to the
rest of the world a unique and very fine
combination of pride in the past—preserv-
ing what's right and decent and enjoyable
and harmonious and inspirational-with
no fear of the future and making the most
of the present. And I'm very proud that
you've invited me as President of the
United States to come back and share this
honor with you.
539
