Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 23
tion in all its forms, and you have dedi-
cated your own lives to the elimination
of those evils.
I've often said during the campaign
in Georgia and in Mississippi that the
best thing that has happened to our coun-
try in my lifetime, and particularly in the
South, was the passage of the Civil Rights
of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964. It transformed the con-
sciousness of our country, and it gave us
a legal basis on which to ensure equality
of opportunity and treatment.
When I announced my own candidacy
for the Presidency, I repeated the words
of my inaugural address in January of
1971 as Governor of Georgia: The time
for racial discrimination is over. Our
people have already made this major and
difficult decision, but we cannot under-
estimate the challenges of hundreds of
minor decisions yet to be made.
Everyone here is ready to meet the
challenge of fulfilling this equal rights
commitment, whether we are from busi-
ness or from labor, from the ranks of
movements which struggle, sometimes at
the threat of one's life, to write that com-
mitment into law, representatives of
women and of minorities, of senior citi-
zens and others.
In 1940, President Roosevelt issued the
first Executive order to forbid discrimi-
nation in employment in the Federal
Government. And since that time, the
Congress, the courts, and the executive
branch have taken historic steps to ex-
tend equal employment opportunity and
its protection throughout the private, as
well as the public sector.
But each new prohibition against dis-
crimination unfortunately has brought
with it a further dispersal of Federal
equal employment opportunity responsi-
bility and management. There are today
nearly 40 different Federal statutes and
orders with widely applicable nondis-
crimination requirements. These are en-
forced by 18 different departments and
agencies in Washington. That is a for-
mula not for guaranteeing equal justice,
but for confusion, for division of re-
sources, for needless paperwork, for regu-
latory duplication, and for delay.
The program that I am announcing
today will replace this chaotic picture
with a coherent and sensible structure. It
constitutes an important step forward
toward consolidation of equal employ-
ment opportunity enforcement. Specifi-
cally, it will establish the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission, the
EEOC, as the principal Federal agency
in fair employment enforcement. It will
transfer from the Department of Labor
to EEOC major statutes which forbid
discrimination on the basis of sex and of
age.
It will transfer from the Civil Service
Commission to the EEOC responsibility
for enforcing equal employment oppor-
tunity protection for Federal employees.
And it will consolidate in the Depart-
ment of Labor responsibility which is now
spread among 11 different agencies for
ensuring that Federal contractors comply
with equal employment standards. And
it will also reinforce the responsibility of
the Department of Justice to assure com-
pliance with equal employment laws by
State and local governments.
This is the first reorganization plan
that I am sending to Congress in 1978
under the authority granted to me by
law last year. This law is a powerful in-
strument which Congress and the Presi-
dent, working together, can use to make
Government work better.
On this particular reorganization plan,
as on others approved and those still be-
ing developed, we have been fortunate
in having the close cooperation and the
expertise of the Senate Governmental
Affairs Committee, under Senator Abe
Ribicoff, and also the House Govern-
399
