May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
In 1975, nearly 400 million tons of coal
were produced in the Appalachian hills
and mountains-nearly two-thirds of the
Nation's total production. And of that
amount, northern Appalachia, including
West Virginia, produced almost 180 mil-
lion tons. That production must increase
as more and more of our energy-using
equipment is modified from petroleum
consumption to the use of coal.
West Virginia coal is high quality. Your
metallurgical coal is the finest in the
world. I know you are experiencing cut-
backs at the present moment because of
slow steel imports and markets. And I
want you to know that Bob Strauss is try-
ing to build up American production of
steel. He's our Special Trade Representa-
tive, an Ambassador, and he's working on
this problem right now.
As we convert to coal, we must assure
that the supply is sure and steady, because
those who use it must be able to depend
upon it. We must solve the underlying
problems that have troubled the coal in-
dustry for generations.
To that end, I'm announcing today in
this meeting the creation of the President's
Commission on the Coal Industry.
Your own Governor, Jay Rockefeller,
has agreed to be the Chairman of this
five-man Commission. He's a man who
has intense interest in coal production,
and he has the confidence both of the
miners and the operators, and I believe
that he will do a great job with the other
members representing the public, who
will be former Secretary of Labor Willard
Wirtz, whose experience in labor-manage-
ment problems goes back to his member-
ship on the War Labor Board during
World War II, and Dewey Presley, a dis-
tinguished business leader from Texas.
I also will appoint a member to repre-
sent labor, who has not yet been chosen,
and one to represent the coal operators-
five people.
In addition to these five members who
will vote, nonvoting members will include
the Secretary of Labor and Secretary of
Energy, and three each from the House
and the Senate.
The Commission will produce for the
first time a comprehensive review of the
coal industry in the United States. Its
work will focus on five general areas:
First, the general economic health of
the coal industry, including productivity
and capital investment now and in the
future.
Second, labor-management relations in
the coal fields, including collective bar-
gaining, grievance procedures, and such
other aspects as the Commission deems
appropriate. Most often, when labor and
management sit down together, it's in a
time of tension or dispute as the details of
future contracts are negotiated. But we
want this Commission to be able to pro-
vide a forum of exchange of ideas, hope-
fully in a friendly way, but certainly a
frank way on how the industry can be
strengthened and how the well-being of
miners and producers both can be im-
proved and let our Nation benefit in the
process.
The third major element of this analysis
will be the health, safety, and living con-
ditions in the coal fields and the coal-
producing areas of our country.
And fourth, the development and ap-
plication of new technologies using coal.
And fifth, the impact on the coal
industry of Federal regulations.
That's a major assignment, as you can
see. The Executive order setting up the
Commission, which I signed between here
and Springfield, Illinois, calls for a final
report to be made to me and the public
not later than 1 year after the first
meeting.
The order also authorizes the Commis-
sion to sponsor a White House Confer-
ence on the future of the coal industry,
1004
