May 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
When I took office 16 months ago, I re-
viewed the condition of U.S. defenses. I
found them strong, although needing im-
provement. In particular, I concluded
that the United States should give top
priority to Europe, especially the conven-
tional defenses needed in the initial stages
of a conflict.
I reached this conclusion for two rea-
sons. First, the Warsaw Pact countries,
especially the Soviet Union, have steadily
expanded and modernized their conven-
tional forces beyond any legitimate re-
quirement for defense. They are now able
to attack with large armored forces more
rapidly than we previously believed. Sec-
ond, although U.S. nuclear forces remain
strong and are fundamental to deterrence,
the long-recognized role of conventional
forces in deterrence of war is increasingly
important.
As a result, I directed the Secretary of
Defense to strengthen initial conventional
defense capacity in Europe. Of course,
such efforts would amount to little unless
accompanied by improvements in the con-
ventional capacity of our NATO Allies.
European NATO countries, not the
United States, provide the bulk of our
military forces in Europe. Also, the com-
peting demands of our free societies limit
the portion of our resources we can use
for defense. Therefore, we must coordi-
nate our defense planning to make the
best use of these limited resources.
From our discussions in London last
year, I know that you share my view of
the challenges we face. The answers we
have developed together are impressive.
We are all making significant, real in-
creases in our defense budgets. We are
strengthening our national forces-and
we will do more. Finally, we have de-
signed a bold Long-Term Defense Pro-
gram to pull together a more effective
collective defense during the years ahead.
As we improve our conventional de-
fenses, we must remember that the
strength of our strategic and theater nu-
clear forces is also necessary for deterrence
and defense. These forces are and will
be fully adequate. Arms control can
make deterrence more stable and perhaps
less burdensome-but it will not, in the
foreseeable future, eliminate the need for
nuclear forces.
For years, the Alliance has relied prin-
cipally on American strategic forces for
deterring nuclear attack on Europe. This
coupling of American strategic forces to
Europe is critical, for it means that an at-
tack on Europe would have the full con-
sequences of an attack on the United
States. Let there be no misunderstanding.
The United States is prepared to use all
the forces necessary for the defense of the
NATO area.
As an alliance, we must continue to
review our nuclear deterrence needs in
light of developments in Soviet nuclear
and conventional forces. As one result of
the Long-Term Defense Program, the
Nuclear Planning Group is examining in
detail the modernizing of our theater nu-
clear forces, including the question of
long-range nuclear systems. We need also
to consider jointly the relation of long-
range theater nuclear systems to arms
control.
This will require considering the full
scope of political and military issues, and
being sure that we maintain the coupling
of American strategic forces to the defense
of Europe. As we examine this together,
I assure you that the United States will
protect the options before us as the SALT
II negotiations move toward completion.
Let me now turn to conventional
forces the bulk of the Long-Term De-
fense Program. After all, our largest ex-
1020
