Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the National Foreign Intelligence Pro-
gram.
4-211. Physical surveillance means an
unconsented, systematic and deliberate
observation of a person by any means on
a continuing basis, or unconsented ac-
quisition of a nonpublic communication
by a person not a party thereto or visibly
present thereat through any means not in-
volving electronic surveillance. This defi-
nition does not include overhead recon-
naissance not directed at specific United
States persons.
4-212. Special activities means activi-
ties conducted abroad in support of na-
tional foreign policy objectives which are
designed to further official United States
programs and policies abroad and which
are planned and executed so that the role
of the United States Government is not
apparent or acknowledged publicly, and
functions in support of such activities,
but not including diplomatic activity or
the collection and production of intelli-
gence or related support functions.
4-213. United States, when used to
describe a place, includes the territories of
the United States.
4-214. United States person means a
citizen of the United States, an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence,
an unincorporated association organized
in the United States or substantially com-
posed of United States citizens or aliens
admitted for permanent residence, or a
corporation incorporated in the United
States.
The White House,
January 24, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:12 a.m., January 25, 1978]
United States Foreign
Intelligence Activities
Statement on Executive Order 12036.
January 24, 1978
I have issued today an Executive order
concerning the organization and control
of United States foreign intelligence ac-
tivities. It is the product of the most ex-
tensive and highest level review ever con-
ducted through the National Security
Council system of our Nation's foreign in-
telligence activities and of an unprece-
dented dialog with the congressional over-
sight committees.
The new order, which builds on the ex-
perience under President Ford's Executive
Order 11905, is intended to provide a
foundation for the drafting of statutory
charters, and I intend to work closely
with congressional leaders to enact such
legislation. Until then, however, the new
order will:
-ensure that foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence activities are con-
ducted in full compliance with the
laws of the United States and are
consistent with broader national se-
curity policies;
-establish effective oversight of the
direction, management, and conduct
of the foreign intelligence activities
of the Federal Government;
-clarify the authority and responsi-
bilities of the Director of Central In-
telligence (DCI) and the depart-
ments and agencies that have foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence
responsibilities.
The most important features of the new
Executive order are as follows:
1. The National Security Council and
its two standing committees the Special
Coordination Committee (SCC) and the
Policy Review Committee (PRC)—will,
short of the President, provide the high-
214
