Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in a similar condition, I don't know. My
own preference is that the executive stay
out of it and let, you know, the Interior
Department, representing me, and the
Federal courts settle it. But I felt that in
this particular case, so many citizens were
adversely affected in Maine, that it was
a special case. But I hope that this will
be the only instance of this kind in which
I, as President, will be involved.
WOOD ENERGY SOURCES
Q. Mr. President, I am Ed Meadows.
I live in Hamden, Maine, just down the
river from Bangor. You are certainly cor-
rect that we in New England are much
concerned with the dilemma of energy
sources and supplies in this region. And
for that reason, references to wood energy
in your opening statement were very
heartening. However, we know that up
until this point, that the ERDA admin-
istration has not been particularly con-
cerned or convinced about the potential
for great regional impacts and balance of
payment and other benefits that wood
energy could have.
My question is, therefore, what spe-
cific steps will your administration now
take to ensure that wood energy plays a
more prominent role in Federal energy
policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Last November, I
think, maybe December, I had the State
forester from my own State come up to
Washington to meet with me and to meet
with the head of the American Foresters,
who works in the Agriculture Depart-
ment, to expedite research and develop-
ment in the use of wood for energy.
About two-thirds of the State of Geor-
gia is covered with forests. A lot of that
forestland is suitable for paper pulp or
timber, most of the soft woods, the pines,
poplars. But we have thousands and thou-
sands of acres of land that's not good for
pulp wood nor for timber construction
that would be perfectly suitable for fuel.
And there are some fast-growing species
of trees, as you know, that would give us
a replenishable supply.
The problem is the cost of harvesting
lumber. We now are experimenting with
chippers that can take a whole tree and
run it through the chipping machine in
the forest; load it on dump trucks that
can take it directly to the railroad siding,
and with vibrators on the side of the box-
cars, can haul substantial quantities of
that material to major plants nearby.
I think that this is a subject that needs
more attention. Jim Schlesinger has been
to the White House specifically to discuss
this with me, and we will increase our re-
search and development effort in this use
of wood far beyond what we've done in
the past.
I can't give you an exact figure yet on
what will be advocated, but it will be
a top priority for me because I know at
first hand how valuable wood is. But if
you'll give me before we leave or give
one of my staff members your mailing ad-
dress, I'll get Dr. Schlesinger to give you
in writing a more specific answer, spell-
ing out in detail what projects we have
underway now and what we advocate for
the future.
Q. Thank you very much. We appreci-
ate your understanding of this issue as a
scientist. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dave
Porter from Hampden. I am also a
teacher. I'm a science teacher at Weather-
bee Junior High School. As I understand
it, you are planning to recommend imple-
menting a separate department of educa-
352
