Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 7
phoria when things are going well, to
despair when they are not; from an exag-
gerated sense of compatibility with the
Soviet Union, to open expressions of
hostility.
Détente between our two countries is
central to world peace. It's important for
the world, for the American public, and
for you as future leaders of the Navy to
understand the complex and sensitive
nature.
The word "détente" can be simplisti-
cally defined as "the easing of tension
between nations." The word is in prac-
tice however, further defined by experi-
ence, as those nations evolve new means
by which they can live with each other in
peace.
To be stable, to be supported by the
American people, and to be a basis for
widening the scope of cooperation, then
détente must be broadly defined and truly
reciprocal. Both nations must exercise re-
straint in troubled areas and in troubled
times. Both must honor meticulously those
agreements which have already been
reached to widen cooperation, naturally
and mutually limit nuclear arms produc-
tion, permit the free movement of people
and the expression of ideas, and to protect
human rights.
Neither of us should entertain the no-
tion that military supremacy can be
attained, or that transient military ad-
vantage can be politically exploited.
Our principal goal is to help shape a
world which is more responsive to the
desire of people everywhere for economic
well-being, social justice, political self-
determination, and basic human rights.
We seek a world of peace. But such a
world must accommodate diversity—so-
cial, political, and ideological. Only then
can there be a genuine cooperation among
nations and among cultures.
We desire to dominate no one. We will
continue to widen our cooperation with
the positive new forces in the world.
We want to increase our collaboration
with the Soviet Union, but also with the
emerging nations, with the nations of
Eastern Europe, and with the People's
Republic of China. We are particularly
dedicated to genuine self-determination
and majority rule in those areas of the
world where these goals have not yet been
attained.
Our long-term objective must be to
convince the Soviet Union of the advan-
tages of cooperation and of the costs of
disruptive behavior.
We remember that the United States
and the Soviet Union were allies in the
Second World War. One of the great his-
torical accomplishments of the U.S. Navy
was to guide and protect the tremendous
shipments of armaments and supplies
from our country to Murmansk and to
other Soviet ports in support of a joint
effort to meet the Nazi threat.
In the agony of that massive conflict,
20 million Soviet lives were lost. Millions
more who live in the Soviet Union still
recall the horror and the hunger of that
time.
I'm convinced that the people of the
Soviet Union want peace. I cannot believe
that they could possibly want war.
Through the years, our Nation has
sought accommodation with the Soviet
Union, as demonstrated by the Austrian
Peace Treaty, the Quadripartite Agree-
ment concerning Berlin, the termination
of nuclear testing in the atmosphere, joint
scientific explorations in space, trade
agreements, the antiballistic missile treaty,
the interim agreement on strategic offen-
sive armaments, and the limited test ban
agreement.
Efforts still continue with negotiations
toward a SALT II agreement, a compre-
1053
