Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
with admiration for your own leadership have no way to reach out with that weak
positions.
These men know the State of Illinois.
They know the people. Mike Bakalis
knows the name of the capital is Spring-
field. His opponent thinks it's "Spring-
board," I think. [Laughter]
I wouldn't want to go any further with-
out complimenting and thanking the
superb congressional delegation, who
have really helped me in every possible
way. Adlai Stevenson has been staunch;
I'll mention him later on in my talk.
Danny Rostenkowski has been not only
helpful in his leadership position in the
Congress, but he gives me good advice
and counsel in foreign affairs as well. He
suggested one of his closest friends as my
Polish interpreter when I made my for-
eign trip. And, Danny, I hope you'll give
your brother-in-law my regards when you
see him. [Laughter]
I was able to go around to the different
rooms to meet with the groups, and there
was one point that I made to all of them,
and that is that you have a unique political
organization here in Cook County. You
may not recognize what you have, you
may not appreciate what you have. For
2 years I campaigned around this coun-
try in every State, at the beginning, very
lonely, a little bit frightened of the enor-
mity of my own campaign effort, but every
time I came to Chicago, I could see some-
thing special. And I would just like to
point it out to you tonight.
The basis for our democratic political
system is the worth of the individual, but
quite often those who need government
services most are the ones who have a very
weak voice. They are the ones who are
poor. They are ones who are weak, them-
selves, who are insecure. Quite often they
might be black, or they may not speak
English very well. They may be even illit-
erate. They may be very young or very
old.
In most parts of our country they would
voice, expressing fear or concern or doubt
or a hope or a dream and reach the core
of government. But here in Cook County,
they can do it.
And the connecting link is the Demo-
cratic Party and its structure, because
they know that every Monday night or
Thursday night on a regular schedule
that the alderman or the committeeman,
committeewoman will be sitting there
waiting to listen to that weak voice and
that that committeeman, that alderman
has direct access to the top political leaders
of this county.
I wish it was that way all over the coun-
try. It's not. But I hope you will preserve
it and appreciate it and cherish it, because
it's the kind of interrelationship between
politics and government on which our
Nation was founded, and it's the source
of its present strength.
There's nothing like a quiet evening in
Chicago with a few friends, Democratic
friends especially. I know that God must
love Cook County Democrats, because he
made so many of you, and I am glad he
did.
As I've looked into your faces tonight,
I remember the 1972 Republican slogan.
Do you remember "Bring us together"?
Well, the
the Republicans have really
brought us Democrats together. And I've
learned from my own experience in Cook
County and my own experience in the
rest of the Nation that the best Demo-
cratic organization in the United States is
yours.
You are following the advice that for-
mer Governor Adlai Stevenson gave us
all when he said, "If you want to live like
a Republican, you've got to vote Demo-
cratic." And that's what you put into
practice, and that's why you're here
tonight.
The last time I was here to speak to
many of you was in 1976. My host and my
escort was a quiet man, a modest man, a
983
