Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
As all of you know, my family has great
credentials as Irishmen. We came here as
a result of the great peanut famine.
[Laughter] I've always felt very close to
the rest of you who came here accord-
ingly.
I have been surprised at some of the
characteristics of the President. I thought
that when I got elected to the highest
office in the land that there would be
some special characteristics about it. I
haven't found that to be true.
Yesterday morning, the Ambassador
from Ireland came to tell me that they
had just flown in from Ireland some sham-
rock especially for me to wear on St. Pat-
rick's Day. And I put it on. I've only worn
it 2 days, and even pinned to the lapel of
the President, it wilted. [Laughter]
This has not been the only time I've
been disappointed. I have been dealing
lately, as you know, with a very difficult
subject, the Panama Canal treaties. It's
not been one of the most popular sub-
jects that I've endorsed. And I called a
couple of months ago a kind of a staff
meeting and said, "What can I do to boost
my spirits about this difficult but very im-
portant subject?" And my staff said, "Why
don't we have a mass meeting at the
White House?" So I called a mass meet-
ing. Both of us were glad the other one
came. [Laughter]
It was one of the worst days I ever had.
I went home that night. The only way I
could relax the tension that I felt as Pres-
ident was to take a warm bath in the tub.
I got in the tub; my Ivory soap sank.
[Laughter]
As Senator Talmadge well knows,
we've also been afflicted in Washington
with farmer strike members, who came to
express their displeasure with crop yields
and weather and farm prices. Last night
I was writing some notes about my serious
part of my speech to be made to you. And
when I went to sleep, I had a nightmare.
I just thought to myself, what if all the
Irishmen in Savannah rode on tractors?
[Laughter] I can see Savannah after a St.
Patrick's Day parade under those circum-
stances. The highest building in town
would be 2 feet high.
We've tried, as you know, to do the best
we could with some very difficult subjects.
I have been pleased on occasion. We've
had a coal contract every week. That's
boosted my spirits some. [Laughter]
But one of the main things that has
boosted my spirits has been the knowledge
that many of you who helped me become
President still have confidence in me and
my administration, give me your support,
and I hope you'll continue to do so.
We've not been afraid to address diffi-
cult questions. When I became President
a little more than a year ago, out of every
hundred persons who were looking for a
job, eight couldn't find work. And with
the help of the Congress during this last
year, 1977, we had a net increase in jobs
in the United States of more than 4 mil-
lion. We've never had that much increase
before. The unemployment rate has
dropped 2 percent. And it shows that if
American people have a chance to work,
they'd rather work.
We've also begun, as Sam Nunn said,
to address the urban problems. My wife
met tonight, as I have met before, with
some of the leaders in Savannah who ini-
tiated on their own private citizens,
black and white, rich and not so rich-an
effort, 15 or so years ago, to rejuvenate
what is inherently one of the most beauti-
ful cities on Earth, that was in danger of
being embarrassed with the deterioration
of your own downtown area. And since
then, you've set an example for the whole
Nation to emulate, and in our new urban
policy, we are using Savannah as an ex-
ample of what people can do if they're
willing to take advantage of what God
gives them.
541
