Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 8
Comptroller of the Currency and the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board and
others have combined already to elimi-
nate the adverse consequences of redlin-
ing practices. This is a dampening policy
on many areas of our Nation that need
to be improved. And I think the coordi-
nated study of the problem of redlining
has resulted in a great step forward.
Lending institutions who don't want to
see their loans lost, who want to minimize
defaults, I think, have been adequately
heard, and their voices have been part of
a very major step toward minimizing
redlining.
I'd also like to comment, in closing, on
what other regulatory agencies are doing
in the financial realm of our Nation. The
Comptroller of the Currency has moved
to implement a program, similar to the
one I've just described, for the thrift in-
stitutions in the commercial banking com-
munity. The Federal Reserve Board
Chairman, Bill Miller, has called publicly
for increasing the number of minority
citizens, women, representatives of con-
sumer groups, labor, on the boards of the
regional Federal banks. And in the Fed-
eral Reserve System, this will be a very
constructive move. I think that it won't
reduce the substantiality and the con-
servatism and the caution with which our
banking system is run. But I think much
more enlightened, much more progressive,
I think much more sound loan policies
can evolve if there's a clearer under-
standing among those who shape policy of
the needs for people who in the past have
been excluded.
As
you know, Bill Miller has also called
for the construction of any new buildings
to be located in the areas that are served
and which sometimes are tending toward
deterioration because they are ignored in
the rapid move toward suburbs and more
rapidly growing areas. Quite often, the
stability of neighborhoods that are in
danger of deterioration has been threat-
ened because the very institutions de-
signed to help them move their centers of
concentrated attention and
attention and presence
away. And I think that this is also a step
in the right direction.
The Chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Commission [Corporation],
FDIC, has also evolved a new policy to
check compliance with fair housing
standards and to emphasize consumer
protection. And all these efforts are in con-
sonance, one with another.
Credit unions, in some instances, are
badly needed in the neighborhoods that
are foremost among those that create
concern. An administrator of the Na-
tional Credit Union Administration is
now attempting to analyze on a nation-
wide basis those communities that can
profit from credit unions and institute
chapters there which might be both a
stabilizing and a constructive step for-
ward.
So, this morning we are very pleased at
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's
making available to the public a supple-
mentary opportunity for $10 billion in
new loans, and I'm also very thankful that
the other regulatory agencies concerned
with the financial structure of our coun-
try are cooperating as enthusiastically as
they can.
We've only had a few weeks, as you
know, since the urban policy was revealed.
And this progress that we have outlined
this morning-I hope it will be just first
steps in a concerted, sustained, sometimes
even nonpublicized effort to make our
Nation a greater one than it already is
and to make sure that our urban policy is
successful because of the new partnership
to which I, as President of our country,
am totally committed.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
1059
