May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
desire for peace, based on a strong Amer-
ica and a strong national defense. I've
been talking about the beauty of our
country, clean air, clean water, clean and
productive land. I've been talking about
our Nation's forests, our Nation's water
resources, our Nation's fields that pro-
duce the food and fiber for us and the rest
of the world.
I've been listening to suggestions and
criticisms and talking with those who are
experts on these subjects and who have a
genuine desire to resolve the longstand-
ing problems and questions which we all
face the questions of energy that have
too long been ignored.
We now see these problems reaching
a stage where they must be resolved.
There are no easy answers. There are no
quick solutions, because we have a strong,
dynamic, growing, aggressive, competitive
nation.
As President, I realize that I don't
know all the answers, that Washington is
not the source of all solutions, that there
must be a genuine partnership between
me, the Governors, the mayors, county of-
ficials, the Congress, and private citizens
of all kinds, to make common sacrifices,
to make common commitments, to realize
the potential beauty and the greatness of
our Nation.
It's good for me to come back to
Spokane today to this same site where I
was thrilled in 1974, when one of the days
was called Georgia Day and I and my wife
and my daughter, Amy, could look at the
beauty of this river, stand in awe at the
waterfall, see what a city of not great pop-
ulation could do to inspire the world, at
the self-sacrifice and accomplishment that
was exhibited here in Expo '74.
I wondered then about the background
of Spokane and the future of this lovely
site, once the excitement of Expo '74 was
past. I flew in on a plane traveling
tourist class, which was my custom then
because of necessity, and I saw the beauty
of
your
land. And today when I came on
Air Force One, I had the same opportu-
nity.
My friend Tom Foley thinks the Inland
Empire is an American version of the
Garden of Eden. And as I looked over the
rich agricultural land and the beautiful
mountains and hills and streams as I flew
in this morning, I can see what he means.
You're lucky to be represented in Con-
gress by a man like Tom Foley. In the
last year and a half, I've learned why he
is one of the most respected men in the
Nation's Capital. In many areas, but
especially farm agricultural policy—on
which he does not always agree with me,
I have to admit he stands for responsible
solutions that protect the interests of
farmers and of all America. He under-
stands, from a practical perspective, the
special problems of farmers in this area,
and he always represents your viewpoints
very well.
This park is an achievement that would
make any city proud, but you should also
be especially proud of your Senator, War-
ren Magnuson, for the essential role he
played in bringing this park into being.
As all of you know, it was Senator
Magnuson who explained to the Federal
Government the importance of this facil-
ity to your beautiful city and who helped
to obtain Federal grants to aid in its con-
struction.
As chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, and soon to be President pro
tempore of the Senate, Maggie is in an
excellent position to continue his fine
work for Spokane and the rest of
Washington State—indeed, the entire Na-
tion. He's one of the greatest Senators
that I have ever known, and I respect and
love him very much, as do all of you.
He expressed a philosophy that has al-
ways been my own: that the best govern-
ment is a government closest to the peo-
858
