Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 16
while they were alive, but we know that
they transformed the concept of Christian
missions because they persevered. They
had journeys, a journey inward, a journey
outward; inward to find peace of one's
spirit, to struggle with doubt, to struggle
with fear, to lay one's fears on God, to
build up strength to turn outward for an
expanded life, a more fruitful life to bene-
fit others.
These two are linked, sometimes shift-
ing from one to another in a matter of a
second or two. Sometimes long periods of
time are required to shift from an inner
finding of one's self to the use of one's self
for others. Sometimes Baptists have been
too inclined to turn inwardly and to stay
that way, within a person, within a home,
within a church. That can be a defect,
but it's not necessarily good for us to
deny, because of a search for inner peace,
the rest of the world. As we know our-
selves, we know God better. We are able
to face fears, leading to a full life.
Some of us in public service turn to
politics, to public service on a full-time
basis. This is not contrary to Christian be-
liefs. Isaiah, Jeremiah pronounced God's
judgment in the very center of political
power.
So, there is no conflict that prevents
bringing one's personal religious life to-
gether with the political arena. There is
a danger, obviously, of conflict, of collu-
sion-Baptists are very much aware of
that.
Thomas Jefferson, in the original days
of our country, said that he was fearful
that the church might influence the state
to take away human liberty. Roger Wil-
liams, who created the first Baptist
church in our country, was afraid that the
church might be corrupted by the state.
These concerns led to the first amend-
ment, which prohibits the establishment
of any official state church, and on the
other hand, in the same sentence, pro-
hibits the passing of any laws that might
interfere with religious freedom.
Separation is specified in the law, but
for a religious person, there is nothing
wrong with bringing these two together,
because you can't divorce religious be-
liefs from public service. And at the same
time, of course, in public office you can-
not impose your own religious beliefs on
others.
I have never detected nor experienced
any conflict between God's will and my
political duty. It's obvious that when I
violate one, at the same time I violate the
other.
Politics is not unsavory. It's not de-
grading. It's not something of which we
need to be ashamed. In my acceptance
speech at the Democratic Convention
almost 2 years ago, I said that I wanted
an opportunity to translate, aggressively
translate love into simple justice. Well,
that's my chance as one individual, no
better than you, to adopt a bold mission.
All of us in this room, in our own spe-
cial way, are influential. And we know
that Christ says that unto whomsoever
much is given, much will be required,
and to whom men commit much, they
will demand more.
Too many of us as Americans, as
Christians, are derelict in the duty of
taking our influence, our power, our
wealth, our free time, and dealing with
those issues that still remain as a great
challenge to us all. We tend to even
ignore the fact that challenges are there.
I'll just give you one example: human
rights. More than a century ago, our
ancestors, yours and mine, were in the
forefront of those dedicated to the pres-
ervation of slavery. More recently, you
and I were not in the forefront of those
dedicated to eliminating segregation,
racial discrimination among our own
neighborhood, friends, particularly in the
1115
