June 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mexico-United States
Interparliamentary Conference
Remarks at a Reception for Delegates to the
18th Conference. June 5, 1978
Senator Gamboa, Congressman Alvarez,
Senator Bentsen, Congressmen de la
Garza, Wright, and others, friends of
Mexico:
It's a great pleasure to have you here
in our house.¹
I also speak English. [Laughter] And I
would like to say in my own language that
the first visitor that we had to the White
House after I became President was the
President of Mexico, my good friend,
López Portillo. And my wife attended his
inauguration before she attended mine.
When he came here, we had a great
opportunity to discuss many important
matters that are of concern to the people
of Mexico and to the people of the United
States. Several discussion groups were ini-
tiated between our two governments, and
their work has already been of great ben-
efit to our people.
We discussed the importance of the
ratification of the Treaty of Tlatelolco.
We discussed the importance of a free ex-
change of prisoners incarcerated in our
two countries, and we discussed the prob-
lem of marine boundaries, a fisheries
agreement, agricultural trade, civil avia-
tion. And I can report to you that already
that already
we have made excellent progress in every
one of these very important matters.
President López Portillo was very help-
ful to us in negotiating with Panama the
terms of the new Panama Canal Treaty.
His influence and his moderating position
between our country and that of Panama
was a very constructive element in the
successful conclusion of this treaty which
1 The President spoke in Spanish, and his
remarks were translated by an interpreter.
I believe lays a new foundation for rela-
tionships throughout this hemisphere.
When he and I became President, one
of the greatest problems was the trade in
illegal drugs between Mexico and the
United States. Because of his courage and
the effectiveness of our joint effort, this
trade in heroin and other destructive
drugs has been drastically reduced.
Obviously, we still have many serious
problems that we share—the problem of
how to deal humanely and properly with
undocumented aliens, the problem of im-
proving the economic status of the people
in our two countries, how to increase al-
ready good trade relationships between us,
to deal with tax problems. I realize that
we have many challenges before us, but
the friendship that binds us together is a
good foundation on which we can antici-
pate success.
These negotiations are routinely con-
ducted between Presidents or members of
our Cabinet. But an exchange of distin-
guished legislative leaders from between
our countries is a very constructive ele-
ment in the understanding of common
needs and in tying the people of our two
countries together, even closer than they
have been in the past.
of
We consider this visit to be one not only
great honor to us but one of present
and future constructive efforts to make the
relationships between our nations even
better.
And finally, let me say that the people
of the United States of America are
blessed to have such a wonderful neigh-
bor to the south. We live in harmony and
peace with one another, with mutual re-
spect and friendship, and we have a great
admiration for Mexico, not only because
of these blessings that are bestowed on us
by your being our neighbor but also be-
cause of the increasing beneficial influ-
ence that the Government of Mexico is
having throughout the world.
1042
