Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
colleagues with bipartisan statesmanship
and wisdom through this long debate-
Senator Robert Byrd, the majority
leader, Senator Howard Baker, the
minority leader, and Senator John
Sparkman, chairman of the Senate For-
eign Relations Committee.
As a nation, we also owe our gratitude
and admiration to former President
Ford and to Democratic and Republican
leaders who have served in previous ad-
ministrations who, by giving the treaties
their support, gave us the opportunity
to judge the treaties on their merits and
not on a partisan, political basis.
This vote today is, of course, only the
first step in the process of ratification,
but I am confident that the Senate will
show the same courage and foresight
when it considers the second treaty. This
is a promising step toward a new era
in our relationships with Panama and
with all of Latin America.
General Torrijos and the Panamanian
people have been patient and forbearing
during the negotiations and during the
Senate debate. They've earned the con-
fidence and respect of the American
people. Their actions during the last few
months is proof of their willingness to
form a partnership with us, to join in
cooperation rather than confrontation.
It's been more than 14 years since
negotiations began with Panama, and
we've been through many months of dis-
cussion and debate about the two treaties
that the Senate has considered. This has
been a long debate, but all of us have
learned from it.
The basic purpose and the underlying
principles of the treaty have been af-
firmed and strengthened by the actions of
the Senate. Under the treaty as approved,
the United States and Panama will have
joint responsibility to assure that the
canal after the year 2000 will remain
neutral and secure, open and accessible.
The United States can take whatever
actions are necessary to make sure the
canal remains open and safe. The vessels
of war and auxiliary vessels of the United
States and Panama are assured of transit
through the canal as quickly as possible
and can go to the head of the line in time
of emergency or need.
While the right of the United States
and Panama to act against any threat to
the regime of neutrality is assured by this
treaty, it does not mean that there is a
right of intervention, nor do we want a
right of intervention by the United States
in the internal affairs of Panama.
But perhaps the most encouraging les-
son of all in these last long months is that
in a full and open debate, even in a very
controversial and difficult issue, in our
foreign policy objectives, we can still
reach the decisions that are in our Na-
tion's long-term, best interests.
I congratulate again the Senators for
their decision and give them, on behalf
of the Nation, my sincere thanks.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Earlier, the Senate had voted 68-32 to ratify
the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neu-
trality and Operation of the Panama Canal.
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the American Press Institute.
March 16, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I appreciate your let-
ting me interrupt your meeting. I'd like to
restrict our time, which was set up for 30
minutes, to 25 minutes, so that the 5 I
might have an individual picture made
with you if you have no objections to that.
And I'll try to abbreviate my answers so
517
