Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
1978 level followed by a phase out of
the payments;
-an "absorption" provision which will
reduce funding for lightly impacted
districts by eliminating payments for
children of Federal employees below
three percent of non-federal enroll-
ment.
To ease the adjustment to these
changes I recommend a gradually declin-
ing "hold-harmless" provision under
which no district will receive less than
seventy-five percent of its previous year's
payments over the next three years. I
also propose that advance funding be
made so that districts can be notified
early of their allocations.
These proposals will save $76 million
in FY 1979 and $336 million in FY 1982.
I believe they are a realistic way to start
bringing the Impact Aid program into
line with the actual Federal burden on
local school districts.
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
Three million children today lack
equal access to education in our schools
because of their limited English-speaking
ability. The Bilingual Education Act is
designed to help local school systems de-
velop and implement programs to help
these children. The proposals I am sub-
mitting today will improve the bilingual
education program by:
-emphasizing the overriding goal of
achieving proficiency in English;
-permitting the flexible use of in-
structional materials and teaching
techniques appropriate and sensitive
to the language, background and
needs of the child;
-making parents more involved;
-requiring that individual programs
be of sufficient scope and duration to
have a substantial educational im-
pact;
-allowing English speaking children
to take part in bilingual education
programs;
-providing more money for teacher
training and emphasizing the use of
bilingual teachers; and
-increasing research in new teaching
techniques.
Because the Bilingual Education Pro-
gram is a demonstration program, every
effort must be made to ensure that funds
are used to help local school districts to
establish and maintain programs of their
own. To ensure that Federal demonstra-
tion funds benefit as many children as
possible, I am proposing that program
grants ordinarily be limited to five years.
Districts will be required to show how
they will ensure that educational progress
is maintained following the phase-out of
grant monies.
In addition, I am proposing that the
Office of Bilingual Education be made
responsible for coordinating bilingual
education aspects of other programs ad-
ministered by the Office of Education.
PRIVATE SCHOOLS
Private schools-particularly parochial
schools are an important part of our
diverse educational system. Federal edu-
cation programs have long required ben-
efits to go to eligible students in both
public and private schools. But this re-
quirement has not been effective in prac-
tice. I am committed to doing all that
the Constitution allows to ensure students
in private schools benefit from Federal
programs.
I propose the following changes to
improve services to private school
students:
-States will be required to develop
plans for ensuring the equitable partici-
pation of private school students in all
Federal educational programs.
428
