Apr. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and rewarding benefits.
The gulf between privilege and depri-
vation can be narrowed in Third World
countries as industrial capacities are es-
tablished, as rural, traditional agriculture
is transformed by modern metals.
Beyond the periscope of infamy in
southern Africa lies the periphery of fer-
tile, potential, and productive cooperation
across this continent.
There is the persistent realization that
Africa can benefit tremendously by signifi-
cantly closer cooperation and greater eco-
nomic aid.
In this connection, we would urgently
suggest a policy of concentration and im-
pact in an area like rural agriculture, par-
ticularly in labor-scarce economy. Perhaps
one commodity or a few commodities
could be selected for productive transfor-
mation and be made the objective of in-
tensive capital and managerial assistance;
channeled through a corporate entity,
will spread effects to a constellation of
small farmers.
This may alter what moves in trade, but
it could change the living of millions
through the exchange of more capital
goods as well as technical assistance. And
it could thoroughly magnetize other coun-
tries towards the fruit of peace and pro-
ductivity, towards material necessities and
spiritual indispensables.
Let us see the challenge not so of con-
troversy, but let us fulfill in Africa the
challenge of humanity and the promise of
developing democracy, to ship them and
to make them vibrant examples of inter-
national peace, human rights, and eco-
nomic justice.
Mr. President, in over 130 years of Li-
beria's independence, you are the first
United States President ever to visit our
capital city of Monrovia, named for an-
other American leader, President James
Monroe. And we sincerely wish that you
will be first to return and abide with us
for a much longer period.
Mr. President, you have called for close
cooperation among the rural, industrial
democracies of the world. Mindful of Li-
beria's intractable commitment to the
community of the free, we are gratified
that you, in the spirit of interdependence,
are fostering by this visit strong coopera-
tion between the powerful nations of the
First World and the small democracies of
the Third World.
Mr. President, we consider this visit an
all too brief one. Albeit, it brightens the
horizon of our hopes that the flower of
more sublime friendship, greater coopera-
tion, and development will emerge from
the seeds we sow today.
We'll be content when there is more in
Africa, the real spirit and meaning of
United States-Liberia unique and special
ties. We'll be truly satisfied in mutual, en-
thusiastic endeavors to make our example
of democracy in Africa a clear, magnetic,
and convincing one.
Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Brzezinski,
visiting guests, officials of government,
friends: May I ask you to rise and raise
your glasses with me and drink lustily to
the success and continued well-being of
our great and good friend, the President
of the United States of America, and to
the ever-accelerating cooperation between
the great United States of America and
the Republic of Liberia.
To President Jimmy Carter.
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Tolbert
and distinguished leaders of the great
country of Liberia, whose very name re-
minds us of the commitment that you
have espoused through a century and a
half and more, a commitment to individ-
ual human freedom and to the liberty of
the human soul:
As you know, my own Nation suffered
during the time of the War Between The
States as we struggled to achieve equality
676
