Jan. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Hubert H. Humphrey
Proclamation 4545. January 16, 1978
DEATH OF HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
As a special mark of respect to the
memory of the Honorable Hubert H.
Humphrey, former Vice President of the
United States of America and Senator
from the State of Minnesota, I, Jimmy
Carter, President of the United States of
America do hereby proclaim, by virtue of
the authority vested in me by a Joint Reso-
lution of the Congress (36 U.S.C. 178),
that the period of public tribute and ap-
preciation shall be extended and the flag
of the United States shall be flown at half-
staff on all buildings, grounds, and naval
vessels of the Federal government in the
District of Columbia, and throughout the
United States and its Territories and pos-
sessions until, and including January 19,
1978, the day the 95th Congress of the
United States reconvenes.
I also direct that the flag shall be flown
at half-staff for the same length of time
at all United States embassies, legations,
consular offices, and other facilities
abroad, including all military facilities
and naval vessels and stations.
May this period, as Senator Humphrey
wished, "be a time to celebrate life and
the future" even though we cannot escape
the pain and sorrow of his leaving.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have
hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of January, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-eight, and of
the Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:35 p.m., January 16, 1978]
Hubert H. Humphrey
Eulogy Delivered at Funeral Services in
St. Paul, Minnesota. January 16, 1978
Not too long ago I invited Senator
Humphrey to go to Camp David to spend
the weekend with me. He had never been
there before, and he was very effusive in
his thanks, telling me over and over how
great a favor I had done for him. It was
the greatest favor I ever did for myself.
We spent 2 days on top of a mountain,
in front of a fireplace, just talking and
listening. We talked about people-com-
mon, ordinary people and great people in
our country and all around the world.
With some he had had very friendly and
good relations. They had always sup-
ported him in his campaign and always
had good things to say about him. Others
had sometimes disappointed him, and he
had not always had their support. But he
never said a word of criticism. He tried to
search in his own mind, no matter who it
was, and find something good to say.
We talked about pain, about the physi-
cal pain that I could see that he was bear-
ing. We talked about the pain of losing a
political campaign. We talked about the
pain of frustration when you have high
hopes and great dreams and human
fallibilities won't let you realize them all.
But I never detected in any of his words
any bitterness.
Yesterday I was honored to speak
about Hubert Humphrey at the Nation's
Capitol. I talked about what he had
meant to our own Nation. But he knew,
as I know and Vice President Mondale
knows, that one of the responsibilities of
those who serve in the White House is to
look beyond our Nation's borders, to for-
eign countries. He traveled a lot, and he
told me about the world leaders with
whom he had met. He told me about the
months during the Vietnam war when he
was Vice President and how when he rode
80
