Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
the tragic cycle of poverty once and for
all.
We are working to cut taxes and to re-
form our tax system, to make it simple
and fair. We are going to make sure that
every tax dollar is spent wisely. We are
going to wring out the waste from our
system by taking a close hard look at
every program that spends the taxpayers'
money.
In short, we are putting aside the ne-
glect of 8 long years, and we are getting
back to work. We've started again on the
unfinished agenda that Democrats set for
ourselves nearly five decades ago during
the Hoover Depression, and our steady
progress will continue.
That still means a lot of hard work
ahead, electing Democratic Senators and
Members of Congress, and Governors and
State officials and State legislators, may-
ors, county officials, aldermen who care
about people, who represent the deep tra-
ditions of this party.
We're the oldest political party in the
world, 186 years old, formed and led in
the early years by Thomas Jefferson and
other great Americans. But we didn't
come this far by letting the system work
by itself. It takes people of all colors, all
backgrounds and ages, from all walks of
life, to keep the Democratic Party fresh
and active, to work not just at election
time but every day. That's why we've been
so successful and will be again this year
in Cook County and in Illinois.
So, I call on you tonight to keep work-
ing for this great Nation and this great
party of ours. Give it your support gen-
erously. It's an investment in your own
future. Keep it alive and vital. Keep it
open and responsive and caring about
others. And above all, remember where we
get our strength. Remember our Demo-
cratic Party history and keep it serving
the people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:08 p.m. Din-
ner guests included George W. Dunne, presi-
dent, Cook County Board of Commissioners,
and Cook County Democratic chairman, Jack
Touhy, Illinois Democratic Party chairman,
and Alex Seith, Democratic candidate for the
U.S. Senate.
Following the dinner, the President went to
the home of James and Mary Eleanor Wall in
Elmhurst, Ill., a suburb of Chicago, where he
spent the night.
Springfield, Illinois
With Members of the State Legislature.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
May 26, 1978
Governor Thompson, Senator Stevenson,
President Hynes, Speaker Redmond, Mr.
Chief Justice, other distinguished leaders
of the great State of Illinois:
It's an honor for me to be here with you
in this historic place from whence has
come so many profound statements and
deliberations in the history of our country
and from which came perhaps the great-
est leader who's ever lived in the Presi-
dent's house.
I'm very grateful, too, for the political
wisdom concentrated here, as well as the
governmental wisdom. When I began to
plan my own campaign, I talked to pres-
ent Speaker Redmond. He told me how
to win an election, easily and quickly.
[Laughter]
And I know that appearances here have
proven to be very good in future Presi-
dential elections. I think the last President
who spoke here, according to the news
media, was Herbert Hoover-[laughter]—
who came here in 1931, just before his
election, or campaign against Franklin
Roosevelt.
This morning I have prepared a speech
text which has been distributed, or will be,
to you. I prepared it myself, and I think
perhaps you might want to read it over.
987
