Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
was officially submitted to the Secretary of
the Interior, who accepted it on my be-
half, by the Honorable Ricardo J. Bor-
dallo, Governor of Guam, on March 1,
1978.
Public Law 94-584 requires that I sub-
mit the constitution to the Congress, along
with my comments. I am confident that
the Congress will share my belief that the
basic principles incorporated into the con-
stitution provide a firm foundation upon
which the people of Guam can assume
greater responsibilities of local self-gov-
ernment in political union with the
United States. Because it is their constitu-
tion, and must be respected as such, I
shall confine my comments to those as-
pects of the document which relate di-
rectly and significantly to the territorial-
Federal relationship. Accordingly, I
would like to bring to the attention of the
Congress the following aspects of the pro-
posed constitution:
-Contrary to the express requirement
of Section 2(b) (1) of Public Law 94-
584 (the Enabling Act), the constitution
does not explicitly recognize the sover-
eignty of the United States over Guam or
the supremacy of its laws, a point noted by
the Departments of State, Justice, and In-
terior in their reviews of the document.
Accordingly, I ask the Congress to con-
sider complications which could arise with
respect to future claims of sovereignty and
supremacy should it decline to take any
of the corrective actions prescribed in
Section 5 of the Enabling Act.
-Article IV, Section 1, of the consti-
tution vests in the elected Governor re-
sponsibility for the faithful execution of
the Constitution and laws of the United
States applicable to Guam. In view of the
Supreme Court's decision in Buckley v.
Valeo (424 U.S. 1) that persons who en-
force the laws of the United States must
be appointed in the constitutionally pre-
scribed manner, I ask the Congress to
give careful consideration to this pro-
vision. Moreover, I suggest to the Con-
gress that responsibility for the execution
of Federal law is not a matter of local
self-government and invite the Congress
to consider whether the inclusion of such
a clause, even if deemed constitutionally
permissible, could lead to friction between
the Governor and the Federal Govern-
ment.
-Article V, Section 4(a), of the con-
stitution provides for legislative appor-
tionment on the basis of the number of
registered voters in each district. I call to
the attention of the Congress the Su-
preme Court's admonition in Burns v.
Richardson (384 U.S. 73) and Ely v.
Klahr (403 U.S. 108) that the use of
voter registration as a basis may perpetu-
ate underrepresentation of groups con-
stitutionally entitled to participate in the
electoral process and is permissible only
if it produces a distribution of legislators
not substantially different from that
which would have resulted from the use
of a permissible population basis.
-Article X, Section 4, of the constitu-
tion would amend the provision in Sec-
tion 11 of the Organic Act of Guam (48
U.S. 1423a), which imposes public debt
limitations on the territory. In light of the
territory's fragile local economy and the
continued financial responsibility of the
Federal Government for Guam, I ask the
Congress to give careful consideration to
this provision.
In view of its responsibility under the
Territories Clause of the United States
Constitution, the Congress may wish to
review the proposed constitution for
Guam on bases other than just the effect
of its provisions on the territorial-Federal
relationship to which I have limited my
comments.
Specifically, the appropriate commit-
tees of the Congress may wish to examine
whether certain provisions of the Guam
796
