Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 14
ernment might play. But I don't think
there would be any possibility of our pass-
ing a specific law just to deal with Cali-
fornia. The reason for the interrelation
on taxes, for instance, is to prevent double
taxation. And I think even with the re-
duced taxes on property in California, the
taxes, for instance, in States like Georgia
or Alabama would still be quite a lot
lower than those in California.
So, we still have no means, no inclina-
tion to single out California for special
Federal programs just because they have
lowered property taxes.
PRESIDENT'S FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
Q. Mr. President, as a Presidential
candidate you often cited the need for
timely financial disclosure as a means of
avoiding conflicts of interest, or appear-
ance of it. And yet, as President, you have
not yet released your income tax filing
from last year, nor your 1976 nor your
1977 net worth statements, as
pledged to do. My question is, what are
your plans with regard to disclosure?
you
THE PRESIDENT. Jody Powell now has
all those data, and they are available for
release. The reason we held this up is
because we had an Internal Revenue
Service audit of my 1975 and 1976 tax
returns. I've forgotten the exact figures,
but one of the years we had no change at
all in the tax return. The other one, when
I was Governor, I put in normal con-
tributions as a State employee into the
retirement system. When I got the money
back at the end of my service as Gover-
nor, there was a $350 increase in value
because of interest earned, and we did
not pay income taxes on that. We owe
$160 back taxes.
In the analysis of that year, however,
the Internal Revenue Service found that
there was owed to me from a previous
year either $5,000 or $6,000—I've forgot-
ten the exact figures-in back taxes. So,
I will have to pay $160, approximately,
to the IRS, and I will get a $5,000 or
$6,000 refund that I had not known
about. [Laughter] But that confirmation
from the IRS just came to us this morn-
ing, and my wife came over at lunch
and told me about it. That's what Jody
has been waiting for. It's good news.
ARMS EMBARGO AGAINST TURKEY
Q. Mr. President, Turkey has openly
stated that she is in a very bad situation
in a military incapability. What is the
alternative of the U.S. Government if the
embargo is still not lifted and if Soviet
Russia proposes a military aid to Turkey
in this very desperate situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess that
Turkey would be reluctant to turn away
from her historical alliance with the
Western nations, those nations of NATO.
Obviously we are not the only source of
weapons or supplies for Turkey. And
even under the present provisions of the
arms embargo, the Congress last year did
approve the sale, I think, of some F-4's,
some fighter planes to Turkey, about $90
million worth.
Turkey has been very greatly disturbed
because of the arms embargo, brought
about, I think, 3 years ago by the fact
that Turkey did violate the American law
in using American-supplied weapons to
go into Cyprus. I think that it's accurate
to say that the Congress had good inten-
tions 3 years ago when the embargo was
enforced in hopes that it would have
beneficial results.
The fact is, as I said earlier, it has not
had beneficial results. It has driven a
wedge between Greece and Turkey, be-
tween Greece and the United States, be-
tween Turkey and the United States, and
it's weakened the alliance of Turkey and
Greece toward NATO, and has, I think,
1097
