Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 10
Q. You are quoted as having said on
Wednesday that the farm bill would be
not only inflationary but would be bad
for the farmers. Now, in what respect
would it be bad for the farmers?
THE PRESIDENT. You're talking about
the Dole bill?
Q. About the farm bill.
The President. Well if the Dole bill
comes to my desk, I wouldn't hesitate 5
minutes to veto it.
You have to remember that one of the
major elements of a stable income for
farmers is exports. About 1 out of every
3 acres in the United States of our agricul-
tural land is devoted to producing crops
for export. That's one thing. Excessive
prices would be a damper on how much
product we could export.
production, would be an administrative
nightmare.
I think it would create so much con-
fusion in the farm economy that it would
be detrimental, not only to the farmers
but to the consumers.
I haven't mentioned the consumers. I
think you probably noticed that it would
probably increase food prices alone more
than 5 percent.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry I don't have
more time for questions. I know you will
be meeting with a lot of other people in
the White House. I particularly wanted,
if you have no objections to your coming
by and let us get a photograph with each
one of you together. [Laughter] If there
are any of you who don't want to get a
photograph with me, I won't be embar-
rassed. [Laughter] Or if you get one, you
can hide it when you get it back home.
I wish I had time to talk to you, but
since we are pressed for time and they are
a large group, let's just shake hands.
Another thing is that the Dole bill,
which was not adequately considered
and, I think, was primarily motivated by
politics, completely bypasses the admin-
istrative procedures that were continued
and enhanced by the 1977 act. It's de-
signed only for 1 year. So, you would
throw all of the administrative mecha-
nism, which is very complicated already,
out the door, implement just for a few
months the so-called Dole bill provisions, Reg, glad to see you here. Thank you very
and then you would come back with the
basic agricultural act after the end of 1
year.
Also, this flexible parity that's been in-
troduced by the Dole amendment is one
that's never been assessed economically.
It's never been proven. Nobody has ever
tried to administer it. What it means is
that if a farmer dropped his acreage
planted by a third, he would have a com-
mensurate increase in the price supports
for his particular farm products. And to
keep track of every individual bushel of
wheat and how much it would bring in
the marketplace, depending upon how
much that particular farmer took out of
I particularly want to see Reg Murphy
and my old friends from Georgia. He was
the editor of our major newspaper in our
State before he went to San Francisco.
much.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:03 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on April 8.
Bonn Economic Summit
Conference
Joint Statement by Heads of State and
Government. April 10, 1978
The Heads of State and Government
of Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
719
