Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of Visitors of the United States Naval
Academy for the terms expiring Decem-
ber 30, 1980.
Hanley, 48, of Seattle, Wash., served in
the United States Marine Corps from
1951 to 1954. She received a B.S. from
Brown University in 1951 and a J.D. from
the University of Washington, 1958. Since
1963 she has been a partner with Karr,
Tuttle, Koch, Campbell, Mawer & Mor-
row, Attorney at Law.
Rusher, 55, of Brinkley, Ark., served in
the United States Navy from 1946 to
1949. He received his B.S. from the
United States Naval Academy in 1946. He
has been with the Bank of Brinkley since
1963 and has been president since 1969.
Rusher is also partner in ownership and
operation of Rusher Insurance Agency.
St. Patrick's Day, 1978
Message of the President. March 16, 1978
Throughout America-wherever the ir-
repressible Irish spirit thrives-St. Pat-
rick's Day is a special time for celebration.
Each year it reminds us of the warmth,
the joy in living, and the basic human
goodness of the Irish people whose quali-
ties are so deeply etched upon our own na-
tional character.
Recognizing the unique bond of festiv-
ity, faith, and national pride that this day
commemorates, Rosalynn and I join every
American in honoring St. Patrick's Day
by the wearing o' the green.
JIMMY CARTER
Railroad Rehabilitation
Announcement of Proposed Legislation.
March 16, 1978
The President has asked Transporta-
tion Secretary Brock Adams to send to
Congress legislation that would enable
the States to help maintain important lo-
cal rail freight service.
The Railroad Amendments Act of 1978
would streamline the process by which
States receive Federal money to rehabili-
tate unprofitable branchlines that provide
service vital to local economies.
Under existing law, railroads must ob-
tain permission from the Interstate Com-
merce Commission to abandon a branch-
line before that line is eligible for Federal
assistance. The administration's proposal
would eliminate that requirement, allow-
ing States to make grants or loans for
rehabilitation before rail lines have been
abandoned.
It would also eliminate the provision in
the current law that allocates at least 1
percent of available funds to each State,
even if the State has no lines eligible for
assistance.
The benefits of the legislation will be
felt especially in the Midwest, where some
railroads are facing a severe financial
crisis.
The proposal, which is being transmit-
ted to Congress today, does not increase
the cost of the branchline program, cur-
rently authorized at $360 million.
Panama Canal Treaties
Remarks on Senate Ratification of the
Neutrality Treaty. March 16, 1978
I have a brief statement to make.
The people of our Nation owe a debt
of thanks to the Members of the United
States Senate for their courageous action
taken today in voting for the Panama
Canal neutrality treaty.
I add my sincere personal congratu-
lations to the entire Senate, and especi-
ally to the three men who have led their
516
