Mar. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
unless I rescinded it before that time or
extended it. Because of the continuing en-
ergy supply problems throughout the
State, I hereby extend the regional en-
ergy emergency determination for the
State of Ohio for a second 30-day period.
During this extension, the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency
retains full authority to disapprove tem-
porary suspensions of regulations in Ohio
on a case-by-case basis and to exercise his
emergency powers authority under Sec-
tion 303 of the Clean Air Act, when and
if necessary.
I urge the Governor to continue to act
with due care if he further suspends any
air pollution regulations under the au-
thority provided by the extension of this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health.
NOTE: The Presidential determination is
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 24,
1978.
Rural Telephone Bank
Appointment of Five Members of the Board
of Directors. March 13, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of five persons as members of
the Board of Directors of the Rural Tele-
phone Bank. They are:
EILEEN J. A. GREVEY, commissioner of the New
Mexico Public Service Commission in Santa
Fe;
ALEX P. MERCURE, Assistant Secretary of
Agriculture for Rural Development;
CLIFFORD M. OUSE, Special Assistant to the
Secretary of Agriculture;
ROBERT L. STANTON, president and director
of the Rock Port Telephone Co. in Rock
Port, Mo., and vice president of Stanton
Grain Co.;
SARAH WEDDINGTON, General Counsel of the
Department of Agriculture.
The Rural Telephone Bank is part of
the Rural Electrification Administration.
It was established in 1971 to make loans
to rural telephone systems.
Securities Investor Protection
Corporation
Nomination of Three Directors.
March 13, 1978
The President today announced three
persons whom he will nominate to be Di-
rectors of the Securities Investor Protec-
tion Corporation. They are:
RALPH D. DENUNZIO, of Riverside, Conn., for
a term expiring December 31, 1979 (reap-
pointment). DeNunzio, 47, is president and
chairman of the executive committee of
Kidder, Peabody & Co. In 1971 and 1972,
he was chairman of the board of governors
of the New York Stock Exchange, the young-
est person to hold that office.
BRENTON H. RUPPLE, of Milwaukee, Wis., for
a term expiring December 31, 1978 (replac-
ing Glenn E. Anderson, term expired). Rup-
ple, 53, is president and chief executive
officer of Robert W. Baird & Co. in Mil-
waukee.
MICHAEL A. TAYLOR, of New York, N.Y., for
a term expiring December 31, 1980 (re-
placing Henry Meers, term expired). Taylor,
40, is senior vice president, assistant to the
chairman, and director of corporate relations
for Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis. From
1969 to 1971, he was counsel to the House
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and
Finance.
The Securities Investor Protection Cor-
poration was established in 1970 to ad-
minister an insurance fund for limited in-
vestor protection against financial failures
of brokerage firms.
Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act
Statement on the Level of Public Service
Jobs Under the Program. March 14, 1978
It gives me great pleasure to announce
that the level of public service jobs under
the CETA program reached 753,000 in
the first week of March. This surpasses
506
