Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Likewise, I should like to voice my firm
conviction that it is quite inadmissible
that today an entire nation-I mean the
Palestinians should be denied the ele-
mentary national rights that other na-
tions have been enjoying for centuries,
and that the settlement of the Palestinian
problem is essential and is the core of the
solution and lasting settlement of the
crisis in the Middle East as a whole.
During our recent exchange of mes-
sages, we could, Mr. President, note a
considerable closeness of our positions on
the need for the parties to the conflict in
the Horn of Africa to find a peaceful so-
lution to their problems under this spirit
without interference from outside, and
on the basis of mutual respect, inde-
pendence, sovereignty, territorial integ-
rity, and nonintervention in each other's
affairs.
I think that such an approach should
be applied also to other parts of Africa.
It must not be allowed that any region,
either in that or in any other continent,
should become the ground for the con-
tention of blocs of big powers. Any such
rivalry carries in itself the danger of a
broader conflict with consequences that
necessarily affect the entire international
community.
I am confident that our views are also
close in that it is necessary within the
framework of the efforts of all member
states of the United Nations further to
promote constantly, integrally, univer-
sally, human rights as one of the essential
ingredients in the strengthening of the
equitable international cooperation and
peace in the world. And an end should be
put as soon as possible to colonialism,
racism, and apartheid in southern Africa
and everywhere else in the world where
these deplorable vestiges of the sinister
past of part of mankind still survive.
I should also like to stress that Yugo-
slavia fully shares the concern by the
overwhelming number of countries over
the unabated continuation of the arms
race, which exposes mankind to tremen-
dous dangers and, it is needless to say,
greatly encumbers the settlement of the
essential political and economic problems
in the world we live in.
For this reason, we view the forthcom-
ing special session of the General Assem-
bly of the United Nations devoted to dis-
armament as an exceptional opportunity
for a joint effort of all the world organi-
zations, member countries, to its opening
up for the sake of the security of the pres-
ent and future generations a process of
genuine disarmament.
We cherish a deep hope, Mr. Presi-
dent, that both you, personally, and your
country will provide your share which
will give an impetus to this process,
which will, beyond any doubt, earn you
well-deserved recognition.
May I also on this occasion emphasize
how great importance for peace, security,
and the prosperity of all countries have
the building of new, more just economic
relations in the world and particularly
the promotion of an accelerated eco-
nomic development of developing coun-
tries and the finding of solutions to the
problems of energy, raw materials, food,
the transfer of technology, and others.
The solution of this, I would say,
major problem of the present-day world
would constitute is the historic impera-
tive of our time. Any delay of this reso-
lution constitutes a serious risk of creating
an atmosphere in which a search for solu-
tions reached by common agreement
would be made considerably more diffi-
cult.
Mr. President, the movement of non-
alignment, to which Yugoslavia belongs
and within which it has been active ever
since its beginning, has become today a
recognized factor in the world due to its
consistent struggle for peace and secur-
478
