Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
the ideological concerns of the great
powers. And I think what he's saying,
really, quite clearly there is, let the Afri-
cans handle their own problems in their
own way, and there it specifically refers
to the OAU. And it's quite logical that
he should emphasize this because Nigeria
itself has the responsibility in, for example,
the Horn, as the head of the Special Com-
mittee which is charged with the responsi-
bility of trying to bring about a peaceful
solution of that problem.
Q. Why was not something to that
effect included in the communique? 1
mean, you certainly would've liked that.
SECRETARY VANCE. We didn't press for
anything like that in the communique,
because they have a special role to play,
as they are the head of the mediation
group. But I think it's well and that we
were very pleasantly surprised to see that
on his own he stated this.
Q. He could be talking about the
French, Biafra, or us in Angola, as well
as the Cubans, too?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes. I think he's got
his general principle. He's stating a gen-
eral principle which I think be believes
in very strongly, that African problems
ought to be settled by Africans, and we
agree with that.
Q. Did the question specifically of
Cubans in the Horn come up?
SECRETARY VANCE. Yes. That was dis-
cussed in our conversations with President
Obasanjo and his advisers.
Q. But he doesn't seem to be as con-
cerned as we are.
SECRETARY VANCE. I think he should
speak for himself on that issue. I think,
you know, you have the language as con-
tained in his toast last night, and I would
think you could draw your own conclu-
sions from that.
Q. The implication that we got yester-
day was that Nigerians had expressed
somewhat different views on that, and
that specifically they had taken the posi-
tion that African countries have the right
to have whatever relations they want to
have with the Soviets and the Cubans.
That is what we were told by State De-
partment officials in the backgrounder
yesterday.
SECRETARY VANCE. Well, I think that
it is true that they believe African coun-
tries do have a right to have such ar-
rangements as they want with outside
powers, but he is expressing in his toasts
his views that, basically, African coun-
tries should settle their own problems.
Q. Is it a matter that they think African
countries should settle their own prob-
lems or they just don't like being told by
the United States?
SECRETARY VANCE. I don't think it's
the latter.
Q. What is the relationship? This is the
primary result of the meeting, isn't it?
SECRETARY VANCE. No. I think that
that's one of the important results of the
meetings in Nigeria, but I think, also, the
discussions which we had on a number
of our bilateral matters were of great im-
portance. The trade relationships-
Q. Was there any difference in the 40-
60-you know, the 40 percent-60 per-
cent Nigerian management in foreign
investment?
SECRETARY VANCE. Well, there are
three different sets. Forty-sixty is only one
of the various percentages. They have
three categories, and the percentage of
Nigerian ownership of the local corpora-
tions depends upon the importance of
that particular industry to Nigeria. And
certain ones where it's not that important,
then there's a lesser percentage, and it
increases in percentage up to a figure of
70 percent in the most critical kind of
industries.
Hi, Mr. President. Do you want this
seat?
669
