May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
make progress and has made progress,
particularly in the way of science, and
through such democratic self-criticism and
self-questioning, that I'm sure we can find
the best solutions to the North Atlantic
Alliance as well.
NATO is a military organization. How-
ever, we are living in an age when battles
are being given in nonmilitary areas as
well, and through nonmilitary means as
well. In our age, battles are mostly given
for the minds of people, not with weapons,
usually, but with ideas and ideologies. And
I think the democratic countries are best
equipped to such battles if they can use
their merits well and in a conscious way,
because democratic countries believe in
the dignity of man and are based on re-
spect and on belief for the creativity of
man.
For this reason, that is, because of my
conviction in the superiority of democ-
racy and freedom, I also believe that
NATO will survive all its problems and
even in this rapidly changing world will
still perform its functions.
I wish to thank you again, Mr. Presi-
dent, for being host to our meeting in
Washington. And allow me to thank, also,
the experienced and distinguished Secre-
tary General, Mr. Luns, who has helped
to make this meeting, our sessions today,
very lively, by forcing us to enter into a
democratic debate in many sensitive sub-
jects. And I think they have been very
useful debates.
I would like to ask your permission to
wish you and Mrs. Carter and all your
children and family every happiness. And
I wish all my colleagues here, all our
American friends, and all the peoples of
the member countries of NATO, every
happiness and success.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:47 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Bulent Ecevit of Turkey
White House Statement. May 31, 1978
President Carter and Turkish Prime
Minister Ecevit had a useful and produc-
tive 1-hour meeting this morning which
included a full discussion of key interna-
tional and bilateral issues. The Turkish
Prime Minister is in the United States
heading his country's delegation to the
NATO Summit, where he has also served
as this year's Honorary President.
The President and Prime Minister
noted the important place Turkey oc-
cupies in the NATO Alliance and stressed
the Alliance's important contribution to
the preservation of stability, peace, de-
mocracy, and human values. They also
reviewed the urgent need for strengthen-
ing NATO's southern flank and for re-
building United States-Turkish relations.
President Carter assured Prime Minister
Ecevit that he was determined to obtain
congressional approval for the repealing
of the remaining arms restrictions on Tur-
key. Prime Minister Ecevit in turn
stressed the importance of the elimination
of those restrictions for the revitalization
of the United States-Turkish relations as
well as for the common security interests
of the Atlantic community.
President Carter and Prime Minister
Ecevit reiterated that an early and equi-
table solution of the Cyprus problem was
desirable in the interests of all parties
concerned as well as for peace and stabil-
ity in the region. Both expressed the hope
that the discussions now taking place be-
tween the United Nations Secretary Gen-
eral and the representatives of the Cypri-
ot communities would lead to early re-
sumption of the intercommunal talks.
The Prime Minister reviewed the ac-
tions his government has taken over the
1018
