Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
And the search for peace means antici-
pating changes that must inevitably come,
such as those in southern Africa, so that
they can come peacefully, rather than
with their pent-up tensions erupting into
violence.
These are the goals America is pursu-
ing, and I am looking forward to discuss-
ing them with one of Africa's leading
statesmen, your own President Tolbert.
His idealism, his determination, and his
energy have won widespread admiration
in Africa, in America, and around the
world. His recent statesman-like sponsor-
ship of the reconciliation summit gather-
ing of West African heads of state, here
in Monrovia, has helped to inaugurate a
new era of cooperation among these na-
tions for the good of all.
Next year he will be hosting, and will
become a major leader of, the Organiza-
tion of African Unity here in Monrovia.
He has worked tirelessly for national self-
determination, racial justice, and a better
life for all the people of the African Con-
tinent.
As we go now together to Monrovia,
we will in a sense close the circle that has
opened between our people more than a
century and half ago.
On behalf of the people of the great
Nation of the United States, I would like
to say to the people of the great nation of
Liberia, this is a journey which is a privi-
lege for me to make.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:35 a.m. at
Roberts International Airport.
Monrovia, Liberia
Toasts at the Working Luncheon.
April 3, 1978
PRESIDENT TOLBERT. Mr. President, we
deeply share your benign concern for the
human family--that its members should
not be disgraced by racism, oppression,
and repression-from mutual understand-
ing and respect for our fundamental ped-
estals to the attainment of permanent
peace. But in southern Africa, evidences
lead one to conclude that the ugly cra-
nium of apartheid is intent on the course
of dangerous self-perpetuation. And the
scenario of its mischievous maneuvers is
protracted, unproductive talks, brutal
murders and assassinations, resulting in al-
most irreparable chaotic upheavals and
deep internal divisions.
The heinous hammer of repression must
be stayed in all nations of the world, of
whatever description. Indeed, Mr. Presi-
dent, in southern Africa, where racial
bigotry and minority rule defy and deny
human dignity and basic freedoms, the
conscience of mankind is being terrorized
into desperation.
In this, we would urge a positive Amer-
ican policy of creativity which would in-
hibit, rather than prevent or bewail, the
occurrences of external subversion and
armed intervention, particularly between
proxies of the super powers.
World opposition to apartheid must be
more resolute and positive. Full and legal
transition to majority rule and multi-
racial accords must follow from more con-
sistent, speedy, and dynamic initiatives.
We deeply share your concern for the
well-being of civilization as a whole, that
it should not mercilessly fall beneath the
increasing burden of destructive weap-
onry and economic exploitation, but rise
to lift the heavy loads of development,
for the armaments of peace are at once
the premise of progress and widespread
productivity.
We would welcome a more positive ap-
proach to the implementation of deferred
decisions regarding improved trade and
aid among nations, at better terms and a
more valuable composition, at new levels
675
