May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ing yogurt. [Laughter]
Since Mr. Hope has now been proven
to be 75 years old, at least we know that
his claim is false that he sold Pepsodent
to George Washington the first time he
came to the White House. [Laughter] We
all know he had wooden teeth, and he was
a Lemon Pledge man. [Laughter] I'm talk-
ing about George Washington. [Laughter]
Although this is the first time that Bob
Hope has been to the White House since
I've been here, I figured up today that I've
been in office now for 489 days. And when
I spend 3 more weeks, I will have stayed
as many nights in the White House as Bob
Hope has. [Laughter]
I'll never forget when we first moved
in. We went by the Lincoln Bedroom, and
Rosalynn was really excited. We came in
here to the East Room and saw the por-
traits of George Washington and his First
Lady; I was very excited. And Amy was
excited in all the other rooms, because
they had signs above the doors, "Bob
Hope Slept Here." [Laughter]
Amy is here; she's already invited Bob
Hope to spend the night with her tonight.
He'll have to climb the tree to get to his
bedroom, but I'm sure he can make it.
[Laughter]
I met Bob Hope when I was Governor.
He came down to Atlanta for a big cele-
bration. I was very disappointed; I think
I was the only person in the Armed Forces
who'd never met him while I was overseas.
Every Christmas Eve we would put some
cookies and a bottle of scotch under our
periscope in the submarine, but he never
showed up. [Laughter]
But I think it's accurate to say that the
USO is as much a part of our Govern-
ment, our Armed Forces, the basis for
strength in our Nation, the good spirit,
and a commitment to service of our coun-
try among those who have been overseas
during times of war and peace, that Bob
Hope is just as much a part of that as any
President who's ever served, and I thank
him from the bottom of my heart for that
tremendous contribution.
There is no way for me to add addi-
tional plaques nor certificates nor medals.
to what Bob Hope has already received
from my predecessors and other leaders.
But as President of the United States of
America, as the Commander in Chief of
all our Armed Forces, and as the Chair-
man, the Honorary Chairman, of the
USO, I want to express my thanks and the
thanks of a grateful nation to a man who
in war and peace, through his own bril-
liance, his sense of humor, his patriotism,
his love and concern for men and women
in the Armed Forces who were not for-
tunate enough to be home to be with
their own loved ones, and for selfless and
unselfish devotion over many years above
and beyond the call of duty, and on behalf
of our country, our Armed Forces, and
the USO, I want to say thank you to my
friend, Bob Hope.
MR. HOPE. Thank you, Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter. I know we all feel the same
way-there are so many in here on a pass
tonight. [Laughter]
I have never seen so many people-
freeloaders, in my life. [Laughter] But
what a kick it is to come in here and just
shake hands with the President and the
First Lady. That's something, isn't it?
I appreciate all those words, and I did
a congressional wives' luncheon today in
honor of Mrs. Carter, and I enjoyed doing
that and seeing the congressional wives.
And I told them that I visited Washington
every once in a while, not so much lately,
but I used to come here quite often-
[laughter] not for political favors, I just
wanted to try to get into Wilbur Mills'
carpool. [Laughter] And I did other
things.
But I want to say I appreciate this very
966
