June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Meeting With Helmut Kohl
White House Statement on the Meeting With
the West German Political Leader.
June 30, 1978
The President met today with Helmut
Kohl, the chairman of the Christian
Democratic Union/Christian Social
Union of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many. Also participating in the meeting
were Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski and Am-
bassador von Staden of the Federal
Republic.
The President and Dr. Kohl discussed
a wide range of international issues of in-
terest to their two nations. The President
said he looked forward to his forthcom-
ing visit to Germany, and the two men
discussed the summit meeting to be held
in Bonn during the President's visit. The
President expressed again the deep
United States commitment to Europe, to
the NATO Alliance, and to its relation-
ship with the Federal Republic. Dr. Kohl
said he thought the President's dedication
to NATO had an important effect, and
he stressed the importance of the Presi-
dent's trip, especially his visit to Berlin.
Both men reaffirmed that German-Amer-
ican ties are firmly rooted in the common
interests of the two countries.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Programs
Executive Order 12067. June 30, 1978
PROVIDING FOR COORDINATION OF FED-
ERAL EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTU-
NITY PROGRAMS
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President of the United States by the
Constitution and statutes of the United
States, including Section 9 of Reorgani-
zation Plan Number 1 of 1978 (43 FR
19807), it is ordered as follows:
1-1. Implementation of Reorganization
Plan.
1-101. The transfer to the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission of all
the functions of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Coordinating Council, and
the termination of that Council, as pro-
vided by Section 6 of Reorganization
Plan Number 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19807),
shall be effective on July 1, 1978.
1-2. Responsibilities of Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission.
1-201. The Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission shall provide lead-
ership and coordination to the efforts of
Federal departments and agencies to en-
force all Federal statutes, Executive or-
ders, regulations, and policies which re-
quire equal employment opportunity
without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, age or handicap. It
shall strive to maximize effort, promote
efficiency, and eliminate conflict, compe-
tition, duplication and inconsistency
among the operations, functions and ju-
risdictions of the Federal departments and
agencies having responsibility for enforc-
ing such statutes, Executive orders, reg-
ulations and policies.
1-202. In carrying out its functions un-
der this order the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission shall consult
with and utilize the special expertise of
Federal departments and agencies with
equal employment opportunity responsi-
bilities. The Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission shall cooperate with
such departments and agencies in the dis-
charge of their equal employment respon-
sibilities.
1-203. All Federal departments and
agencies shall cooperate with and assist
the Equal Employment Opportunity
1212
