Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
intend to call a White House Conference
on Small Business, as suggested by Senate
Resolution 105 which you authored.
I believe such a conference can help us
identify the many special problems facing
small business and design an agenda that
addresses them in a constructive way. As
you know, the 14 million small businesses
represent a much larger part of our econ-
omy than is commonly recognized. They
account for over 50% of all private em-
ployment, 43% of the gross national prod-
uct and over half of all inventions.
You have been a leader in devising ways
to help this important sector of our econ-
omy grow and prosper. Administrator
Vernon Weaver of the Small Business Ad-
ministration will be working closely with
you in preparation for the White House
Conference.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
April 6.
On the same day, Small Business Adminis-
trator A. Vernon Weaver, Jr., and Senator Nel-
son, chairman of the Senate Select Committee
on Small Business, held a news conference in the
Briefing Room at the White House on the
week-long Conference, which will be held in
the fall of 1979.
Commission on Presidential
Scholars
Appointment of 26 Members. April 6, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of 26 persons as members of
the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
The Commission each year selects Presi-
dential Scholars from each State, as well
as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
and American student overseas. The
scholars are selected on the basis of out-
standing scholarship and demonstrated
leadership capabilities. Each scholar is
presented with a medallion at a Rose
Garden ceremony during the summer.
The 26 persons appointed to the Com-
mission are:
SAM F. ABRAM, assistant superintendent of
secondary schools in Muncie, Ind.;
MARI C. APONTE, associate counsel of Blue
Cross of Greater Philadelphia and a former
high school teacher in bilingual and regular
programs;
ELAINE BARBOUR, 1978 Teacher of the Year,
who teaches sixth grade at Cole Creek Ele-
mentary School in Montrose, Colo.;
NORMA C. BARKER, of Humboldt, Tenn., active
in civic affairs and a former PTA president;
CAROLYN M. BENNETT, a 1974 Presidential
Scholar now attending Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity as a premedical student;
JOAN F. BERMAN, chairperson of the economics
department at Baret College, Lake Forest,
Ill.;
ARTHUR J. DECIO, chairman and chief execu-
tive officer of Skyline Corp. in Elkhart, Ind.;
LINDA M. DONALDSON, employed by the
Minnesota State Senate;
RUTH P. FENTON, of Carmel, Calif., a member
of the California Department of Education's
State-Wide Advisory Committee on the
Gifted;
JOHN N. FOY, senior vice president of the finan-
cial services division and executive coordi-
nator of Arlen Shopping Centers Co. in
Chattanooga, Tenn.;
JAMES J. GALLAGHER, director of the Graham
Child Development Center and professor of
education at the University of North Caro-
lina;
W. A. "NICK" GREENE, JR., vice president of
Greene's Fine Foods in Augusta, Ga., and
president of the Lynndale School and Train-
ing Center;
F. RICHARD Hsu, president of the China Insti-
tute in America in New York City, N.Y.;
THOMAS H. HUDSON, a Louisiana State sen-
ator and Baton Rouge attorney;
ABRAHAM M. LINDENBAUM, a New York at-
torney and former commissioner of the New
York City Housing Authority and the New
York City Planning Commission;
FRANK J. MCGUIRE, basketball coach for the
University of South Carolina;
DON MITCHELL, an actor in television, motion
pictures, and the theater, and a founder of
the Watts Training Center;
GERALD L. OVEL, president and owner of Iowa
Pipe & Supply Co. in Cedar Rapids, Iowa;
696
