Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And I anticipate that now and in the
future there will be temporary periods of
discouragement and withdrawal of the
negotiating parties. So, I think every
evidence that I have both publicly and
privately known is that both sides want
peace and the progress toward peace is
steady.
VIEWS ON THE CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, last week you used
very strong language to criticize Congress
for wasting a year on energy legislation,
and you also urged Congress to be more
responsive to the public desire for tax re-
form.
Since this allegedly laggardly, unre-
sponsive Congress is controlled by the
Democrats, and since congressional elec-
tions will be held this fall, doesn't this
constitute an attack on members of your
own party?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't
characterize it as an attack. I think it was
an accurate description of the fact that for
12 months Congress had had a very good
energy proposal before it and had not
acted conclusively on it.
The day after I made that statement,
the negotiating team within the confer-
ence committee did resolve to their own
satisfaction the question of the regulation
and pricing of natural gas, one of the most
difficult political questions that ever ad-
dressed Congress. This has been kicking
around now for at least 30 years. I think
Truman vetoed the first natural gas de-
regulation bill. I think it's a step in the
right direction.
Now, out of the five major categories of
proposals I made to the Congress a year
ago, four of them have been resolved at
least at the conference level, and now the
remaining issue is the pricing of oil.
We, last year, imported $45 billion
worth of oil, too much, and I believe the
Congress is beginning to see that the pub-
lic supports action on the energy legisla-
tion and that when they do act it will help
our whole economy.
I think that one of the reasons that the
stock market has gone up, I think almost
75 points in the last 2 weeks, unprece-
dented rise, is, among other things, a new
commitment to fighting inflation and the
apparent willingness of Congress now to
act on the energy legislation-those two
things.
So, I'm not attacking the Congress, but
I reserve the right to point out the in-
activity of Congress, which I think on oc-
casion does inspire them to act more
rapidly.
UNEMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, a few days ago you
met with some top executives of big cor-
porations to discuss inflation. Did you
discuss unemployment at the same time?
If so, could you tell us about that as it
relates to unemployment?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we did discuss
unemployment. I pointed out to the ex-
ecutives who were here that in the last,
I'd say, 12 months, because of the good
action on the part of the Democratic
Congress in putting into law our stimu-
lus package, that we had had a dramatic
drop in the unemployment rate, and that
a year ago, they, around that table, in-
cluding myself and the members of my
Cabinet who were there, had been almost
completely committed or concerned
about unemployment. That is now going
in the right direction. I think the last 3
or 4 months show that the unemploy-
ment rate is at 6 percent or a little above,
almost 2 full percentage points less than
it was 15 months ago, when I became
President. This has got to continue.
We also discussed the fact that the
focusing of Federal programs concerning
reducing unemployment can now be
placed upon those who are most difficult
to employ-minority citizens, women,
780
