Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 30
ship and the historic ties that link the two
countries.
During the course of their stay in Bra-
sília, President and Mrs. Carter visited
His Excellency, the President of the Su-
preme Federal Tribunal, and other mem-
bers of the Tribunal. President Carter
also called on the National Congress
Congress
meeting in solemn joint session. President
and Mrs. Carter expressed their deep ap-
preciation for these opportunities to meet
with the Tribunal and the National
Congress.
The visit testifies to the desire of both
Presidents to increase their mutual under-
standing and build on the broad areas of
agreement that exist between the two
Governments. The visit also recognizes
the growing importance and complexity
of relations between the two countries
and the need to minimize the inevitable
differences in perspective that flow from
that complexity.
The conversations between the two
Presidents took place in an atmosphere of
frankness, cordiality and mutual respect.
They reviewed recent international de-
velopments on the global and regional
plane and exchanged views on the policies
and perceptions of their Governments.
Recognizing the respective responsibilities
of their two countries in the resolution of
important global issues, the two Presi-
dents stressed the common interests and
goals both countries share for the con-
struction of a just and peaceful interna-
tional order. They reaffirmed their strong
support for the principles of the Charter
of the United Nations and of the Orga-
nization of American States, and for the
principles of sovereignty, equality, and
non-intervention in the domestic affairs
of states, non-use of force in international
relations and for other principles of inter-
national law governing relations among
states. They agreed on the need to per-
severe in efforts to maintain international
peace, strengthen world security, inten-
sify cooperation among states, and settle
outstanding international issues in ac-
cordance with the peaceful means en-
visaged by the Charter of the United
Nations.
In the context of this global review, the
two Presidents noted the importance of
the United Nations and other interna-
tional and regional institutions in the
resolution of international issues and dis-
putes, and agreed that their two Govern-
ments should maintain and expand their
cooperation in support of these mecha-
nisms and their increased effectiveness.
They also agreed to expand the annual
consultations between their two Govern-
ments preceding the UN General Assem-
bly sessions, and to bring within the pur-
view of these consultations negotiations
and meetings under UN auspices such as
the Law of the Sea Conference and the
United Nations Conferences on Tech-
nology and Development and Tech-
nical Cooperation among Developing
Countries.
The Presidents exchanged views con-
cerning the situation in the Middle East
and deplored the recent violence which
occurred in that area. They agreed that
it is necessary and urgent to intensify ef-
forts to achieve a just, comprehensive and
durable peace based on UNSC Resolu-
tion 242 and 338. They stressed the im-
portance of withdrawal on all fronts pur-
suant to Resolution 242 and the resolu-
tion of all aspects of the Palestinian
question.
The two Presidents emphasized their
concern with the arms race and re-
affirmed that they strongly favor the
adoption of disarmament measures under
strict and effective international control.
Additionally, the Presidents expressed
their mutual dedication to the positive
participation of their respective coun-
tries in the UN Special Session
637
