Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 9
them is Admiral Hyman Rickover. This
year he's 77 years old, still dynamic, vigor-
ous, aggressive. He is the man among all
those who live on Earth who had the
clearest picture of what peaceful use of
atomic power could do for the world. And
as a young naval officer, I worked under
him, and he helped to shape my life. He
still feels accurately that what he's doing
as a full-time professional naval officer is
helpful to our country.
Two days ago, I made a speech at the
U.S. Naval Academy. Admiral Rickover
is a graduate of there, as am I. And I, as a
matter of courtesy, called up Admiral
Rickover and asked him to ride over with
me on the helicopter to sit there with me
while I made my speech. He said, “Mr.
President, I'll do anything that you order
me to do, but," he said, "I believe that
my work for the U.S. Government and the
Navy is much more important than going
over to listen to you speak." And this is
typical of his attitude and his commit-
ment and his competence.
And the last person I would like to men-
tion is a former Peace Corps volunteer
whom I know quite well, my mother,
Lillian Carter.
Mother was born in 1898. And my
father died when mother was almost 60.
She had been a registered nurse. And it
was a very good opportunity for her to
retire. She would have had a pleasant life
in a small town, but after 2 or 3 months,
my mother began to see opportunities for
involvement in local and statewide and
regional and then national and interna-
tional affairs that stretched her mind and
stretched her heart.
At this time, she's a younger person
than I am. And never does a day go by
that mother doesn't get up in the morn-
ing, as do many of you, and say "What
can I do this day to make my life more
meaningful, to show other people that
I care for them, and to learn more about
the world in which I live?"
She's a very aggressive person. She
speaks her own mind, and I might say that
not only the President but other people
listen. And she will soon be going over to
Italy to receive an award for the person
who's done the most, in their opinion, for
alleviating world hunger and for demon-
strating to people in the more wealthy
nations that there are deprived people on
Earth who need a helping hand and an
open heart.
She'll be coming back through the Sa-
hara region of Africa, if her present plans
go well, visiting perhaps several countries
there, a part of the world that at the pres-
ent time, because of drought, is perhaps
the most poverty stricken and hungry in
all the Earth.
Well, I could go on and on, naming
many of you assembled in this audience.
But the point I want to make is that your
ability and your talents and your sound
experience and your judgment and your
political influence are a resource in this
country that we cannot afford to waste.
I need you, the Nation needs you, and I
would like to ask all of you, in closing, not
to dwell upon the past, but to look to the
future with a bright and open heart, not
just thinking about ourselves but thinking
about and supporting the principles and
the greatness of America, the country
that we all love.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Nelson Cruikshank, Counsellor to
the President on Aging, and James Carbray,
president of the National Council of Senior
Citizens.
1067
