Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
The President. I think Sheik Yamani
has recently denied saying what was re-
ported from him about a close intercon-
nection between continued involvement
with the American dollar and friendship
between Saudi Arabia and the United
States and the sale of warplanes to Saudi
Arabia. I think he's denied that.
I think the proposals that we have
made to Congress to Egypt, Saudi
Arabia, and Israel for warplanes—ought
not to be changed at all, and I hope and
expect that the Congress will approve this
proposal as we submitted it.
Obviously, there will be a lot of hard
work to be done in the Congress. We'll be
presenting testimony to the House com-
mittee on the 8th and 9th of May-and
we've also testified yesterday for 6 or 7
hours in the Senate committee. I think we
will win this proposal because it's right,
it's good for our country, very badly
needed.
One of the most crucial elements of a
permanent maintenance of peace in the
Middle East and the security of Israel is
for us to have a relationship with the
moderate Arab nations, like Egypt and
Saudi Arabia, where they depend upon us
to keep our word and where there is a
clear recognition of the friendship and
mutual trust between our countries.
We have provided these planes for
Saudi Arabia, not to attack Israel; they
are a defensive type of airplanes. And the
Saudis have ordered configuration or ap-
purtenances on the planes, fittings on the
planes that are defensive in nature. So,
they are designed and needed to defend
Saudi Arabia. I see no reason to change
any of those proposals.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, Ted Natt of the Daily
News in Longview, Washington. Today
there was more bad news about the econ-
omy. The wholesale price index went up
a larger than usual amount. Do you have
a point in your mind beyond which you'll
take stronger action on inflation than
you've taken thus far and, if so, what is it,
where is that point?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't intend to im-
pose wage and price controls. We are
consulting now with labor and business
leaders to get them to reduce their rate of
increase of both wages and prices below
what they did the last 2 years. We call
that deceleration of inflation. And I'm
going to be very strict in vetoing any pro-
posals that the Congress makes that would
increase the deficit that we already face
for next year's fiscal budget, 1979.
My own admonitions to the American
people-I spoke to the lawyers today and
asked them to hold down their rate of fee
increases. They have increased profes-
sional fees, maybe news people included,
in the last 5 years, even more than oil
prices have gone up. And so, I think that
this is going to be a matter for all Ameri-
cans to address. Everyone wants other
people to be the ones to take action to
hold down inflation, to hold down wages,
to hold down prices, but it is going to have
to be a common effort. And I'll do every-
thing I can within the power of the Presi-
dency to hold down the inflation rate.
A year ago, my primary consideration
work. And the Congress rallied with me,
was putting American people back to
the American people, the private business
sector rallied with me, and we've had
remarkable success in the last 15 months
in bringing the unemployment rate down.
We added more than 4 million jobs
last year. I think the unemployment rate.
in Oregon went down 3 full percentage
points. And now we're going to address
the same degree of determination to hold-
ing down the inflation rate without aban-
doning our effort to further reduce the
unemployment rate.
849
