Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
again. It is written: For every right that
you cherish, you have a duty which you
must fulfill. For every hope that you en-
tertain, you have a task that you must
perform. For every good that you wish
could happen . . . you will have to
sacrifice your comfort and ease. There
is nothing for nothing any longer."
These words of admonition certainly
apply to us now.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:31 p.m. in
the International Ballroom West at the Wash-
ington Hilton Hotel. His remarks were broad-
cast live on radio and television.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Eugene C. Patterson, outgoing presi-
dent of the society, and John Hughes, who is
replacing Mr. Patterson.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 11, 1978
EUGENE C. PATTERSON. Mr. President,
we would like to request that you respond
to questions of the members of ASNE,
and I will recognize John Hughes of the
Christian Science Monitor to ask the first
question.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
MR. HUGHES. Mr. President, what-
the reaction to your economic
speech here today, it seems clear that this
administration faces a continuing image
problem. You, sir, came into office with
an image of freshness, with promises of
efficiency and reform, and above all, with
promises to run an open administration,
close to the public. But after 15 months,
the polls seem to indicate declining pub-
lic hope in your administration.
Some of our newspapers criticize you
for being indecisive and above all had
said that the Presidency, far from being
open, is increasingly dependent on a small
group of intimate advisers.
Whether these charges are fair or un-
fair, sir, are you concerned by this dra-
matic shift in image, and if so, how do
you hope to redress the situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't agree
that there is a dramatic shift in image. I
think the poll results have been fairly
stable for the last 4 or 5 months. And as
has been the case with previous Presi-
dents, after the flush of victory is over
and the very difficult responsibilities
descend on the shoulders of a President,
the high expectations of the people that
the problems would be resolved overnight
tend to cause a deterioration in public
expectancy and sometimes a feeling of
discouragement.
We have deliberately addressed some of
the more difficult and intransigent, even
historic, problems of our country. And we
are having, I think, good progress in re-
solving most of these problems.
In domestic affairs, we've begun to re-
organize the Government. Every proposal
that I put to the Congress so far has been
accepted. We formed a new Department
of Energy. The Congress has now been
working for 12 months on a comprehen-
sive energy policy.
These are the same matters that were
addressed when Harry Truman was Pres-
ident back in 1948-deregulation of nat-
ural gas, dealing with excessive energy
consumption. They are extremely con-
troversial, very difficult.
We've put forward our proposals on
economic stimulus. And I believe that
last year we achieved a remarkable de-
gree of success in meeting the goals that
we had set for our administration, with
unemployment dropping drastically, as
727
