Jan. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
budgets, because I had to learn about the
different, specific programs that are
buried deep within the large number of
Federal agencies.
I think we have a good prospect of
holding the budget basically where it is.
It's a tight, conservative budget, but it
meets the needs of our people adequately.
We'll have an urban policy evolved early
in the spring, and we have enough flex-
ibility, I think, to accommodate the spe-
cific financial needs there.
This is an election year, and I'll prob-
ably put more time in 1978 in working
with the Democratic Party, on weekends
and so forth, than I did during 1977.
We've got a new chairman that was
voted on this morning, John White, from
Texas, who's a levelheaded, very well-re-
spected man, knowledgeable about poli-
tics. And he replaces an excellent chair-
man, who's a particularly personal friend
of mine, Ken Curtis, who came because
I personally asked him to and who's done
a good job this first year.
So, in foreign affairs, in domestic af-
fairs, in the political side of my responsi-
bilities, I feel very good. I've enjoyed be-
ing President.
Our family is closer now than it has
been in years. We have got enough to
keep Rosalynn and Chip and Jeffrey and
Amy and Annette and Caron busy, and
they represent me and the American peo-
ple very well.
Chip is in Israel this week. Rosalynn is
doing several things outside the Govern-
ment, and one that has been particularly
gratifying has been the establishment of
what she calls the Friendship Force, where
we send a planeload of Americans to a
foreign country and the same plane brings
back a load of foreign visitors to our
country.
They stay in private homes; don't stay
in hotels. The total cost of the round trip
is $250. It's a remarkable people-to-
people exchange program.
We've already had one from Atlanta
to Newcastle, England. Now they'll have
another one from Atlanta to Newcastle
that they've done on their own. We've had
one from Nashville to Caracas. The most
recent one is from Hartford, Connecticut,
to Tel Aviv, and we've had one from Des
Moines to Ireland. And we hope to have
20, maybe 30 this year. But this is all with
private funds, no public funds at all.
So, we're trying to do things both in
government, in political questions, and
also outside of government.
I think the best thing to do would be
for me to answer questions that you might
have.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Indiana.
And this year-I'm sure you are aware of
the blizzard situation.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. It points out the energy problem that
in another year-what progress do you
think we can make this year as far as the
administration is concerned on energy?
THE PRESIDENT. Just a few minutes
ago, I signed a proclamation of emergency
in Indiana so that we can provide help.
And last night, I did one for Ohio. This
will permit the legal use of military forces,
National Guard, and others, to alleviate
the traffic conditions and to reach
stranded motorists and others.
Well, we're trying to approach the
energy question on a comprehensive basis,
and it's a very complicated and difficult
and politically divisive issue.
The first natural gas deregulation bill
that was vetoed, I think, was by Harry
Truman, 27, 28 years ago, so that this is
not something new. But I think for the
first time the Congress has made tremen-
234
