Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
The reasons for this break with past
trends are complex, but one factor that
clearly stands out is the relatively slow
growth in the stock of business plant and
equipment. Historically, improvements in
productivity have been linked closely to
investment in plant and equipment. In-
vestment in new facilities has embodied
new and more productive technology and
has provided our work force with more
and better tools.
Business investment has lagged during
the recovery for several reasons. Some of
the fears engendered by the steep reces-
sion and severe inflation of 1973-75 have
remained and have reduced the incentive
for businesses to invest. Uncertainties
about energy supplies and energy prices
have also been a deterrent to investment,
and so have concerns about governmental
regulations in a variety of areas. Finally,
high costs of capital goods and a depressed
stock market have diminished the incen-
tives and raised the costs to businesses of
investment in new plant and equipment.
Industrial capacity is ample now. But
without a substantial increase in invest-
ment over the next few years, problems
would build for the future. Rapid growth
of capacity is needed to assure that short-
ages of particular products do not emerge
before we regain high employment. If
capacity is not sufficient, bottlenecks may
develop in some sectors, forcing up prices
of industrial commodities. Inadequate
rates of capital formation will also hold
back the gains in productivity needed
to improve standards of living and to
avoid further aggravation of our inflation
problem.
My tax and other economic proposals
will encourage a greater rate of business
investment in several ways. By promoting
a sustainable rate of economic recovery,
they will assure businesses of an expand-
ing market for the output from new fac-
tories and equipment. The specific tax
reductions for business I have proposed
will increase after-tax profits and so di-
rectly provide additional incentives for
investment.
We must also have conditions in finan-
cial markets that permit businesses to
raise the funds they need for investment.
Prudent Federal budgetary policies will
contribute significantly to that end, as
will policies that deal effectively with in-
flation. Both will ease the Federal Re-
serve's task of pursuing monetary policies
that support full recovery.
MORE EFFECTIVE PROGRAMS TO REDUCE
THE RATE OF INFLATION
We cannot achieve full prosperity un-
less we deal effectively with inflation. We
must take steps to reduce the high rate
of inflation inherited from the past and
to guard against a renewed outbreak of
inflation as we regain a high-employment
economy.
Our economy is not suffering at present
from excess demand. Monetary growth in
recent years has not been excessive, and
Federal budget deficits have occurred in
an economy with high unemployment and
excess capacity. Yet prices continue to
rise as a result of an inflationary process
that has been under way for a decade.
Our present inflation began back in the
late 1960s and accelerated sharply in the
early years of the 1970s. Since 1974 the
rate of consumer price inflation has de-
clined substantially from 12 percent to
between 6 and 62 percent at present. But
that improvement is due largely to the
termination of special influences affecting
prices during 1974—the sharp rise of food
and fuel prices, and the bulge in prices
following the removal of wage and price
controls.
139
