Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
March 5, 1978, as Save Your Vision
Week. I urge all Americans to observe this
period by learning what they can do to
take care of their eyes and by practicing
a few simple precautions to protect their
sight. I invite the vision care profession-
als, the communications media, educa-
tors, and all public and private organiza-
tions which support sight conservation to
participate in activities which will inform
all Americans about the importance of
eye care and encourage them to take
steps to protect their vision.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this first day of Febru-
ary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:04 a.m., February 2, 1978]
Panama Canal Treaties
Address to the Nation. February 1, 1978
Good evening.
Seventy-five years ago, our Nation
signed a treaty which gave us rights to
build a canal across Panama, to take the
historic step of joining the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans. The results of the agree-
ment have been of great benefit to our-
selves and to other nations throughout the
world who navigate the high seas.
The building of the canal was one of
the greatest engineering feats of history.
Although massive in concept and con-
struction, it's relatively simple in design
and has been reliable and efficient in op-
eration. We Americans are justly and
deeply proud of this great achievement.
The canal has also been a source of
pride and benefit to the people of Pan-
ama-but a cause of some continuing dis-
content. Because we have controlled a 10-
mile-wide strip of land across the heart
of their country and because they con-
sidered the original terms of the agree-
ment to be unfair, the people of Panama
have been dissatisfied with the treaty. It
was drafted here in our country and was
not signed by any Panamanian. Our own
Secretary of State who did sign the orig-
inal treaty said it was "vastly advan-
tageous to the United States and... not
so advantageous to Panama."
In 1964, after consulting with former
Presidents Truman and Eisenhower,
President Johnson committed our Nation
to work towards a new treaty with the
Republic of Panama. And last summer,
after 14 years of negotiation under two
Democratic Presidents and two Republi-
can Presidents, we reached and signed an
agreement that is fair and beneficial to
both countries. The United States Senate
will soon be debating whether these
treaties should be ratified.
Throughout the negotiations, we were
determined that our national security in-
terests would be protected; that the canal
would always be open and neutral and
available to ships of all nations; that in
time of need or emergency our warships
would have the right to go to the head of
the line for priority passage through the
canal; and that our military forces would
have the permanent right to defend the
canal if it should ever be in danger. The
new treaties meet all of these require-
ments.
Let me outline the terms of the agree-
ment. There are two treaties—one cover-
ing the rest of this century, and the other
guaranteeing the safety, openness, and
neutrality of the canal after the year 1999,
when Panama will be in charge of its op-
eration.
For the rest of this century, we will op-
erate the canal through a nine-person
258
