Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
-an anti-inflation program, designed
to reduce annual increases in wages
and prices, with the cooperation of
labor and business and with the Fed-
eral government setting an example;
reductions of $2 billion in excise and
payroll taxes will also make a con-
tribution to reducing inflation;
-an extension of the funding for 725,-
000 public service (CETA) jobs, and
a $700 million increase in spending
for our youth employment efforts;
-a major new $400 million private
sector jobs initiative, designed pri-
marily to encourage businesses to
hire unemployed minorities and
youth.
I plan to work very closely with Con-
gress to secure prompt action on these
economic proposals. Their adoption will
help achieve the kind of economic pros-
perity for our Nation that all of us want.
Along with a sound energy bill, enact-
ment of these economic proposals will be
my highest domestic priority for 1978.
ENERGY
There can be no higher priority than
prompt enactment of comprehensive en-
ergy legislation along the lines submitted
to the Congress last spring.
Huge oil price increases in 1973-74
contributed to the double-digit inflation
of 1974, and to the worst recession in 40
years. These price hikes were also the
principal cause of our foreign trade defi-
cit, which has contributed to the weak-
ness of the dollar abroad.
Unless we act now, our energy prob-
lems will rapidly get worse. Failure to act
will fuel inflation, erode the value of the
dollar, render us vulnerable to disruptions
in our oil supply, and limit our economic
progress in the years to come.
I am confident that the Congress will
respond to the Nation's clear need, by en-
acting responsible and balanced energy
legislation early this year.
EMPLOYMENT
Last year we made considerable prog-
ress in our efforts to reduce unemploy-
ment. The unemployment rate decreased
from 7.8% to 6.4%. During the year, 4.1
million new jobs were created. Unem-
ployment fell by 1.1 million workers. The
actions we took as part of our $21 bil-
lion economic stimulus package substan-
tially helped us achieve these favorable
results.
In 1978, the Administration will con-
tinue its efforts to reduce unemployment
still further and to increase employment
opportunities for all Americans. As part
of the budget I will propose:
-additional funds to increase youth
programs 260% above the 1976
level, providing $2.3 billion in out-
lays and 450,000 man-years of em-
ployment and training for young
workers;
-a $400 million private sector em-
ployment program focused on youth
and other disadvantaged workers
and aimed at mobilizing private in-
dustry to work with government in
finding jobs. It will be implemented
through business councils established
throughout the country;
-maintenance of the 725,000 CETA
jobs through 1979, while tying them
in future years to national unemploy-
ment rates;
-beginning of a demonstration pro-
gram for the jobs component of the
Better Jobs and Income Program.
99
69
