Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 26
the Soviet Union, we've never held out
the prospect of increased or decreased
trade if they did or did not do a certain
thing that we thought was best.
We try to pursue peace as the over-
whelming sense of our goals with the
Soviet Union, and I think that's shared
in good faith by President Brezhnev.
So, I think the word "linkage" is some-
times inappropriately used. It's obvious
that there is a good factor in progress
with the Soviet Union if the American
people, the Congress, the business com-
munity feel that they are acting in good
faith toward us, that they have friendly
attitudes toward us, they treat our citizens
over there, trying to enhance trade, with
respect and with fairness. And all of these
things are tightly interrelated. But I think
the word “linkage” is one that's inappro-
priately used.
TAX REDUCTION LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, in your opening
remarks on the tax legislation and the
Steiger amendment, the implication is
strongly there, but you stop short of actu-
ally saying you would veto legislation
with the Steiger amendment. Will you
veto such legislation if it comes to your
desk?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I said neither
the American people nor I will tolerate
a plan that does what the Steiger amend-
ment does. I think that's clear enough.
I don't see any way that I could accept a
major tax proposal of this kind that did
cost the Federal Treasury $2 billion, and
increase the budget deficit that much,
and channel almost all of the money to
the very rich people. So, I don't see any
possibility of my approving such a plan.
CIVIL RIGHTS PROSECUTIONS
Q. Mr. President, your Justice Depart-
ment has set up a dual prosecution policy
in cases of police brutality where the vic-
tims' civil rights may have been violated.
But there seems to be some confusion over
when the dual prosecution policy should
be used. I wonder if you could clarify.
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt it, but I'll try.
When I came in office and when Griffin
Bell became the Attorney General, there
was a concern that we shared about the
mistreatment of minority citizens in this
country-blacks, those who speak Spanish,
and others. I believe that at the present
time, we are investigating about 192 cases
of that sort. Each case has to be assessed
on its own merits.
There is a duality in culpability among
those who commit some crime. I'm speak-
ing in generalities now. One is the actual
criminal case where you punish someone
for abusing another person. Sometimes the
abuse extends to the death of the victim.
Another element of criminality is the vio-
lation of the American civil rights act,
where a person's rights are deprived, even
the loss of life.
If in the judgment of the Attorney Gen-
eral-and he makes the judgment, I
don't the original case is not adequately
pursued, nor the punishment, if meted out,
adequate for the crime, if there's a gross
abuse of that, then the Attorney General
reserves the right to enter the case and try
the perpetrator of the crime on the basis
of a civil rights violation.
This has been historically the case, but
we've revived that issue. And without re-
ferring to a specific case, this is our policy.
As I said, to repeat myself, each case has
to be decided on its own merits, though,
and the Attorney General makes that ulti-
mate decision.
Q. If I could follow up on that for a
minute, in the Rodriguez case in Dallas
it's been reported that Drew Days at the
Justice Department decided not to prose-
cute that case, and that you talked to some
Mexican Americans while you were down
in Texas and promised that Attorney Gen-
eral Bell would go ahead and look into it
himself personally.
1181
