Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 7
nondiscriminatory basis. It marks another
significant step in the improvement of
U.S.-Hungarian relations. During this
decade, we have concluded important
agreements in the consular, financial, cul-
tural, and scientific fields and have begun
a constructive dialogue in many areas, in-
cluding humanitarian matters.
I am also enclosing, for the information
of the Congress, a recent exchange of
letters between the Hungarian Foreign
Minister and the American Ambassador
to Hungary. This exchange reviews the
progress we have made to date and makes
clear each nation's desire to further
cooperate wherever possible.
This exchange also highlights Hun-
gary's generally positive policy on emigra-
tion. For well over a year, United States
officials have had regular conversations
with Hungarian officials about Hungarian
emigration law, policy and practice, and
about the resolution of individual cases.
The Hungarian Government has stressed
that it intends to continue dealing with
emigration matters in a responsive and
humanitarian way. Hungary's actions have
been consistent with this policy; we have
encountered few problems in resolving
specific cases.
I have reviewed the circumstances of
Hungarian emigration in light of all these
considerations, and have determined that
a waiver of the application of subsections
(a) and (b) of Section 402 of the Trade
Act of 1974 will substantially promote
the objectives of that Section.
I believe that the Agreement is con-
sistent with both the letter and the spirit
of the Trade Act of 1974. It provides for
mutual extension of most-favored-nation
tariff treatment, while seeking to ensure
overall reciprocity of economic benefits.
Its special safeguard arrangements pro-
vide strong assurances that our trade with
Hungary will grow without injury to do-
mestic firms or loss of jobs for American
workers.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
United States-Hungary
Trade Relations
Proclamation 4560. April 7, 1978
AGREEMENT ON TRADE RELATIONS BE-
TWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
AND THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
As President of the United States of
America, acting through my representa-
tives, I entered into the negotiation of an
agreement on trade relations between the
United States of America and the Hun-
garian People's Republic with representa-
tives of the Hungarian People's Republic;
The negotiations were conducted in ac-
cordance with the requirements of the
Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, January
3, 1975; 88 Stat. 1978) (“the Act");
An "Agreement on Trade Relations
between the United States of America
and the Hungarian People's Republic,"
in English and Hungarian, was signed on
March 17, 1978, by representatives of the
two Governments, and is annexed to this
Proclamation;
The Agreement conforms to the re-
quirements relating to bilateral commer-
cial agreements specified in Section 405
(b) of the Act;
705
