Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
any agency within the Intelligence Com-
munity;
(b) Participation in law enforcement
activities, in accordance with law and this
Order, to investigate or prevent clandes-
tine intelligence activities by foreign
powers, international narcotics produc-
tion and trafficking, or international ter-
rorist activities; or
(c) Provision of specialized equipment,
technical knowledge, or assistance of ex-
pert personnel for use by any department
or agency or, when lives are endangered,
to support local law enforcement agencies.
Provision of assistance by expert person-
nel shall be governed by procedures ap-
proved by the Attorney General.
2-310. Permissible Dissemination and
Storage of Information. Nothing in Sec-
tions 2-201 through 2–309 of this Order
shall prohibit:
(a) Dissemination to appropriate law
enforcement agencies of information
which indicates involvement in activities
that may violate federal, state, local or
foreign laws;
(b) Storage of information required by
law to be retained;
(c) Dissemination of information cov-
ered by Section 2-208 (a)-(j) to agencies
within the Intelligence Community or en-
tities of cooperating foreign governments;
or
(d) Lawful storage or dissemination of
information solely for administrative pur-
poses not related to intelligence or secu-
rity.
SECTION 3
OVERSIGHT OF INTELLIGENCE
ORGANIZATIONS
3-1. Intelligence Oversight Board.
3–101. Membership. The President's
Intelligence Oversight Board (IOB) shall
function within the White House. The
IOB shall have three members who shall
be appointed by the President and who
shall be from outside the government and
be qualified on the basis of ability, knowl-
edge, diversity of background and experi-
ence. No member shall have any personal
interest in any contractual relationship
with any agency within the Intelligence
Community. One member shall be desig-
nated by the President as chairman.
3-102. Duties. The IOB shall:
(a) Review periodically the practices
and procedures of the Inspectors General
and General Counsel with responsibilities
for agencies within the Intelligence Com-
munity for discovering and reporting to
the IOB intelligence activities that raise
questions of legality or propriety, and con-
sider written and oral reports referred
under Section 3-201;
(b) Review periodically for adequacy
the internal guidelines of each agency
within the Intelligence Community con-
cerning the legality or propriety of intelli-
gence activities;
(c) Report periodically, at least quar-
terly, to the President on its findings; and
report in a timely manner to the Presi-
dent any intelligence activities that raise
serious questions of legality or propriety;
(d) Forward to the Attorney General,
in a timely manner, reports received con-
cerning intelligence activities in which a
question of legality has been raised or
which the IOB believes to involve ques-
tions of legality; and
(e) Conduct such investigations of the
intelligence activities of agencies within
the Intelligence Community as the Board
deems necessary to carry out its functions
under this Order.
3-103. Restriction on Staff. No person
who serves on the staff of the IOB shall
have any contractual or employment rela-
tionship with any agency within the In-
telligence Community.
3-2. Inspectors General and General
Counsel. Inspectors General and General
210
