Mar. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
liest impediments to production and
cause great suffering and economic loss.
Accidents can destroy the lives and
bodies, as well as the economic resources
of farm families. Neither the individuals
involved, nor the Nation, can afford these
losses. Farm safety leaders believe that
most farm accidents could be prevented
with greater care in controlling hazards
and unsafe practices-the same kind of
dedicated, careful management and at-
tention to detail that has made possible
our incredible increase in agricultural
production.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, do hereby designate the week
beginning July 25, 1978, as National
Farm Safety Week. I call upon the men
and women who operate the Nation's
farms and ranches to regard safety as an
integral part of all their activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
the Indiana Air Quality Implementation
Plan might be necessary. I ordered the
determination to be in effect for not more
than 30 days unless I rescinded it before
that time or extended it. Because of con-
tinuing energy supply problems through-
out the State, I hereby extend the re-
gional energy emergency determination
for the State of Indiana for a second 30-
day period. During this extension, the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency retains full authority to dis-
approve temporary suspensions of regula-
tions in Indiana on a case-by-case basis
and to exercise his emergency powers au-
thority under Section 303 of the Clean
Air Act, when and if necessary.
I urge the Governor to continue to act
with due care if he further suspends any
air pollution regulations under the au-
thority provided by the extension of this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health.
The Presidential determination is
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 24,
1978.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, National Teacher of the Year
2:36 p.m., March 21, 1978]
Energy Emergency in Indiana
Statement on Extending the Energy
Emergency Determination. March 21, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Indiana,
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I determined on February 15,
1978, that a regional energy emergency
existed in the State of Indiana of such
severity that a temporary suspension of
certain particulate and sulfur dioxide
control regulations and regulations gov-
erning reserves of low sulfur coal under
Remarks at the Presentation Ceremony for
Elaine Barbour. March 21, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is one of the pleas-
ant experiences that a President has, to
recognize excellence of achievement in
our country.
The selection of the National Teacher
of the Year is a ceremony that takes place
every year, which is an inspiration, not
only to those who depend upon the
schools for a vital force in our lives and
those of our children but also because we
recognize that to choose one superb
teacher from the tens of thousands who
serve is really a recognition of them all.
Elaine Barbour has been chosen this
year as the outstanding teacher of our
546
