Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 25
The Soviets have no use for a neutron
weapon, so the offer by Brezhnev to re-
frain from building the neutron weapons
has no significance in the European
theater, and he knows this.
We are strengthening NATO in other
ways. Ourselves, our NATO Allies will
meet here in Washington the last of May
with a recommitment, which is already
well in progress, for a long-range
strengthening of NATO in all its aspects.
But this statement by Brezhnev con-
cerning the neutron weapon has no signif-
icance at all.
Bob [Bob Jamieson, NBC News].
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. President, are you going to heed
the calls of the congressional leadership
of
your own party and delay the formal
submission of the package sale of war-
planes to the Congress or break it up in
any way?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've not been
asked by the leadership in the Congress to
delay. I have had one Senator who came
to see me about holding off on this pro-
posal. Secretary Vance and I have been
in close communication, both with one an-
other and with leaders in the Congress, for
a number of weeks concerning the arms
sales package that will be presented to the
Congress very shortly. This package will
be presented in individual, component
parts to the Congress. It's the only legal
way to do it.
The Congress will act on those major
sales proposals individually to Israel, to
Egypt, and to Saudi Arabia. Each one is
important. Each one completes a com-
mitment that has been made by either
me, or, even in the case of the Saudis
and Israel, our predecessors for these
sales.
I look upon them as a package, and if
the Congress should accept a portion and
reject another, then my intent is to with-
draw the sales proposal altogether. But
the Congress will not receive nor act on
these proposals as a package. They have
to act, according to the law, on individ-
ual items.
These proposals are in the national
interest. I think it's important to our
country to meet our commitments. The
one that's perhaps the most controversial
is the sale of F-15's to the Saudi Ara-
bians. This was a promise that was made
to the Saudi Arabians in September of
1975, to let them have a choice of F-16's
or F-15's. They want these weapons for
defensive purposes.
I recommitted this Nation to provide
these planes both last year and again this
year. And my deep belief is that, since in
the Middle East our preeminent consid-
eration is the long-range and permanent
security and peacefulness for the people
of Israel, that to treat the moderate
Arabs with fairness and with friendship
and to strengthen their commitment to
us in return is in the best interests of our
own country and of Israel.
We are negotiating or discussing these
matters with the Congress. But there will
be no delay of the sales proposal beyond
the point where it can be completed by
the time the Congress goes into recess-
maybe 2 or 3 days, no longer than that.
Q. Mr. President, do you think it
proper or do you think it right for the
Foreign Minister of another government
to interfere in the legislative processes of
this Government? I'm talking particularly
about your Middle East arms package
here, legislation which you've said is in
the best interest of the United States. Do
you think it's right?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have made
my decision about the arms sales pack-
age after very careful consideration, a
close study of decisions and opinions ex-
pressed by my predecessors in the White
House,
House, careful consultation with the
777
