May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Kneip has served as chairman of the
Democratic Governors and as chairman
of the Midwestern Governors' Confer-
ence. He is a member of the Advisory
Commission on Intergovernmental Rela-
tions.
in the department of chemical engineer-
ing at MIT. He also serves on the energy
and environment committee of the Great-
er Boston Chamber of Commerce. He is
the author of numerous technical papers
and reports.
New England River Basins
Commission
Appointment of John R. Ehrenfeld as
Chairman. May 2, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of John R. Ehrenfeld, of
Cambridge, Mass., as Chairman of the
New England River Basins Commission.
He replaces Frank Gregg, who has been
appointed Director of the Bureau of Land
Management at the Interior Department.
Ehrenfeld was born May 16, 1931, in
Chicago. He received an S.B. in 1953 and
an Sc. D. in 1957 from Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology.
From 1959 to 1961, Ehrenfeld was a
senior staff engineer for Arthur D. Little,
Inc., and in 1961 and 1962, he was senior
chemical engineer for Prototech, Inc.
From 1962 to 1967, he was director of ap-
plied research for the Technology Divi-
sion of GCA Corp.
In 1968 Ehrenfeld founded Walden
Research Corp., one of the first environ-
mental research companies in New Eng-
land, and served as president and techni-
cal director until 1975. Since 1975 he has
been vice president and technical director
of Energy Resources Co. (ERCO) in
Cambridge.
Ehrenfeld also serves on the board of
the Massachusetts Science and Technol-
ogy Foundation. He is a visiting lecturer
Better Hearing and Speech
Month, May 1978
Message of the President. May 2, 1978
Communicative disability is a major
health problem in our country today.
Americans with hearing and speech
handicaps number over twenty million.
These disorders seriously affect the daily
lives of people of all ages. The invisibility
of communication impairment belies its
serious consequences for those who must
carry on normal living activities in our
complex modern society.
Meeting the hearing and speech health
service needs of men, women and children
is thus a continuing challenge to our pub-
lic and private health resources.
It is encouraging to know that the num-
ber of Americans who are overcoming
hearing and speech handicaps is steadily
increasing. During this national observ-
ance, I want to take the opportunity to
applaud the individuals and groups who
are involved in community activities re-
lating to improved health, rehabilitation
and social care for those with communica-
tive disorders. Such steadfast effort in
guiding and developing new programs in
this area greatly enhances the well-being
of those with hearing and speech disabili-
ties and represents a most critical public
service.
JIMMY CARTER
822
