Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
time I began to assess whether or not
we needed to go ahead to produce the
neutron weapon itself.
We have a serious problem in Western
Europe and Eastern Europe. The Soviet
Union has built up a tremendous quantity
of tank force, military force of all kinds,
nuclear weapons like the SS-20, which is
30 times more destructive than any neu-
tron weapon that we've ever considered,
and which has a range of more than a
thousand miles, where the range of the
kind of neutron weapon we're talking
about is only 15 or 20 or 25 miles.
There has never been any thought that
neutron weapons, which are not bombs,
but either shells or missiles, would be de-
ployed on American soil. They're not
feasible at all for use in this country or
where Americans live. If ever produced,
they would be deployed on the ground or
in the lands of the West Germans or the
Belgians or other Europeans.
Another factor to make is that if the
Soviets did invade, then the lives that
would be saved by a weapon with a very
narrow destructive area would be West
Germans, Belgians, those who live in Hol-
land, perhaps the French, that are our
friends and allies. I never had a single
European country who told me that if
we produced the neutron weapon that
they were willing to deploy it.
West German leaders said that, "If
other nations in Europe will deploy it, we
will." So, that's why I terminated any
consideration of the production of the
neutron weapon for the time being.
If the Soviets continue to build up their
own forces to a degree that increases the
threat against the West Europeans, who
are our NATO Allies, and we have about
300,000 American soldiers in the Western
European area, who would be directly
threatened, then I would consider going
ahead with the neutron bomb as one of
the alternatives that faced me.
I would not want to close that option
completely. But there is no plan now to
ahead with the neutron weapon.
go
I hope that the Soviets will caution
themselves and not build up their forces
any further. We've also got another nego-
tiation going on with them, Peter, with
which you may or may not be familiar,
called the mutual and balanced force
reductions. We've just for the first time
put on the table a list of all the armed
forces we have in Western Europe. The
Soviets did the same thing for the first
time. They put on the table a list of all
the armed forces they have in Eastern
Europe. And once those inventories are
confirmed on both sides, then the next
step would be to start reducing the armed
force commitment by NATO and the so-
called Warsaw Pact on opposite sides of
the boundaries between Eastern and
Western Europe for the first time.
So, we want peace. We want to elimi-
nate nuclear weapons altogether. We
can't leave our country defenseless, and
we can only go so far in putting con-
straints on ourselves until we are sure
that the Soviets are willing to meet our
constraints.
So far, the Soviets have negotiated in
good faith on SALT. We hope for the first
time to have a comprehensive test ban,
where we eliminate completely the test-
ing of nuclear weapons. We are still test-
ing those right and left. So, another thing
that Congress has done recently on the
same subject is to pass legislation again
for the first time preventing non-nuclear
nations from developing explosives, but
permitting them to go ahead and produce
atomic power.
So, in all aspects of the use of nuclear
power, my commitment, as I'm sure is
yours, is to reduce the prospect of new
atomic weapons on a mutual basis with
the Soviets and others and start reduc-
ing the inventory of existing nuclear
875
