Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 14, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With a Group of Editors and
News Directors. April 7, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say first of all
it's a great pleasure to have you here in
the White House. We've been conducting
these meetings every 2 weeks since I've
been in office, and with the arrival today
of Alaska and Hawaii editors, we've had
more than 500 top news executives and
all 50 States.
What I ordinarily do, and what I will
do today, is to spend 3 or 4 minutes just
giving you an outline of some of the things
that I've been working on the last couple
of days or few hours and then spend
the rest of the time responding to your
questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
On the domestic scene, the most im-
portant single issue for us is in the Senate
with the Panama Canal Treaty delibera-
tions, which are approaching now the
final stages. We think we will have a vote
a little after the middle of this month. It's
still a difficult issue to deal with politi-
cally, one that is taking up almost full time
in the Senate.
The Senate and House are working to-
gether for the final stages, I hope, of ne-
gotiation on energy legislation. Their two
conferee groups are now dealing with nat-
ural gas prices and deregulation rates, and
then will turn to the crude oil equali-
zation tax question. The other three
major items out of five have already been
resolved.
I will be meeting this afternoon with a
Member of the Senate to discuss the so-
cial security question. The Congress took,
I think, bold and proper action last year.
My own preference as President is that
we should not reopen that question on so-
cial security this year.
We are pushing hard for our tax re-
form package, tax reduction which
amounts to about $25 million [billion].
We are trying to hold down excessive
budget demands that would come from
additional farm legislation. The Congress
has acted responsibly, I think, last year on
this as well.
On the foreign scene, this morning I
issued a statement on enhanced radiation
weapons after close consultation not only
with my own administration officials but
also our key allied leaders overseas. I dis-
cussed this with General Haig by secure
telephone, and this morning in Europe
the NATO conference met, and I gave
the heads of state, earlier, in the NATO
conference, the statement that I would
make today.
713
