June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
indicate clearly which portions are classi-
fied, with the applicable classification des-
ignation, and which portions are not clas-
sified. The Director of the Information
Security Oversight Office may, for good
cause, grant and revoke waivers of this
requirement for specified classes of docu-
ments or information.
1-505. Foreign government informa-
tion shall either retain its original classi-
fication designation or be assigned a
United States classification designation
that shall ensure a degree of protection
equivalent to that required by the entity
that furnished the information.
1-506. Classified documents that con-
tain or reveal information that is subject
to special dissemination and reproduction
limitations authorized by this Order shall
be marked clearly so as to place the user
on notice of the restrictions.
1-6. Prohibitions.
1-601. Classification may not be used
to conceal violations of law, inefficiency,
or administrative error, to prevent em-
barrassment to a person, organization or
agency, or to restrain competition.
1-602. Basic scientific research infor-
mation not clearly related to the national
security may not be classified.
1-603. A product of non-government
research and development that does not
incorporate or reveal classified informa-
tion to which the producer or developer
was given prior access may not be classi-
fied under this Order until and unless the
government acquires a proprietary inter-
est in the product. This Order does not
affect the provisions of the Patent Se-
crecy Act of 1952 (35 U.S.C. 181-188).
1-604. References to classified docu-
ments that do not disclose classified in-
formation may not be classified or used
as a basis for classification.
1-605. Classification may not be used
to limit dissemination of information that
is not classifiable under the provisions of
this Order or to prevent or delay the pub-
lic release of such information.
1-606. No document originated on or
after the effective date of this Order may
be classified after an agency has received
a request for the document under the
Freedom of Information Act or the Man-
datory Review provisions of this Order
(Section 3-5), unless such classification
is consistent with this Order and is au-
thorized by the agency head or deputy
agency head. Documents originated be-
fore the effective date of this Order and
subject to such a request may not be clas-
sified unless such classification is consist-
ent with this Order and is authorized by
the senior official designated to oversee
the agency information security program
or by an official with Top Secret classi-
fication authority. Classification authority
under this provision shall be exercised
personally, on a document-by-document
basis.
1-607. Classification may not be re-
stored to documents already declassified
and released to the public under this
Order or prior Orders.
SECTION 2. DERIVATIVE CLASSIFICATION.
2-1. Use of Derivative Classification.
2-101. Original classification author-
ity shall not be delegated to persons who
only reproduce, extract, or summarize
classified information, or who only apply
classification markings derived from
source material or as directed by a clas-
sification guide.
2-102. Persons who apply such deriv-
ative classification markings shall:
(a) respect original classification deci-
sions;
(b) verify the information's current
level of classification so far as practicable
before applying the markings; and
(c) carry forward to any newly cre-
ated documents the assigned dates or
1198
