June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
hensive test ban against nuclear explo-
sives, reductions in conventional arms
transfers to other countries, the prohibi-
tion against attacks on satellites in space,
an agreement to stabilize the level of force
deployment in the Indian Ocean, and
increased trade and scientific and cultural
exchange. We must be willing to explore
such avenues of cooperation despite the
basic issues which divide us. The risks of
nuclear war alone propel us in this
direction.
The numbers and destructive potential
of nuclear weapons has been increasing
at an alarming rate. That is why a SALT
agreement which enhances the security of
both nations is of fundamental impor-
tance. We and the Soviet Union are
negotiating in good faith almost every
day, because we both know that a failure
to succeed would precipitate a resumption
of a massive nuclear arms race. .
I'm glad to report to you today that the
prospects for a SALT II agreement are
good.
Beyond this major effort, improved
trade and technological and cultural ex-
change are among the immediate benefits
of cooperation between our two countries.
However, these efforts to cooperate do not
erase the significant differences between
us.
What are these differences?
To the Soviet Union, détente seems to
mean a continuing aggressive struggle for
political advantage and increased influ-
ence in a variety of ways. The Soviet
Union apparently sees military power and
military assistance as the best means of
expanding their influence abroad. Obvi-
ously, areas of instability in the world pro-
vide a tempting target for this effort, and
all too often they seem ready to exploit
any such opportunity.
As became apparent in Korea, in An-
gola, and also, as you know, in Ethiopia
more recently, the Soviets prefer to use
proxy forces to achieve their purposes.
To other nations throughout the world,
the Soviet military buildup appears to be
excessive, far beyond any legitimate re-
quirement to defend themselves or to
defend their allies. For more than 15
years, they have maintained this program
of military growth, investing almost 15
percent of their total gross national prod-
uct in armaments, and this sustained
growth continues.
The abuse of basic human rights in
their own country, in violation of the
agreement which was reached at Hel-
sinki, has earned them the condemnation
of people everywhere who love freedom.
By their actions, they've demonstrated
that the Soviet system cannot tolerate
freely expressed ideas or notions of loyal
opposition and the free movement of
peoples.
The Soviet Union attempts to export
a totalitarian and repressive form of gov-
ernment, resulting in a closed society.
Some of these characteristics and goals
create problems for the Soviet Union.
Outside a tightly controlled bloc, the
Soviet Union has difficult political rela-
tions with other nations. Their cultural
bonds with others are few and frayed.
Their form of government is becoming
increasingly unattractive to other nations,
so that even Marxist-Leninist groups no
longer look on the Soviet Union as a
model to be imitated.
Many countries are becoming very con-
cerned that the nonaligned movement is
being subverted by Cuba, which is obvi-
ously closely aligned with the Soviet
Union and dependent upon the Soviets
for economic sustenance and for military
and political guidance and direction.
Although the Soviet Union has the sec-
ond largest economic system in the world,
its growth is slowing greatly, and its stand-
ard of living does not compare favorably
1054
