Jan. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the Nation's health, points out, as have
his predecessors for 15 or 20 years, that
smoking is a danger to health. The U.S.
Surgeon General, as you know, years ago
confirmed this in tests. Now, I happen to
think that that's his responsibility. And
it's not his responsibility to tell a particu-
lar American citizen whether they can or
cannot smoke.
Q. I understand, sir. But would you ask
your White House staff to set a national
example? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No, sir.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. When you were in Egypt meeting
with President Sadat, President Sadat
emerged from that meeting saying that
your views and his on the Middle East
were essentially identical. Does that mean
that you think the Israelis should with-
draw from all 20 settlements they have in
the Sinai plus their West Bank settlements
before there can be peace in the Middle
East?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's not for me to
decide the specifics of an ultimate settle-
ment, either between Israel and Egypt, or
Israel and Jordan, or Israel and the other
nations involved or the Palestinians.
I think that it's accurate that President
Sadat and I see the Middle East question
almost identically. I've not been involved
and don't intend to get involved in the
military settlement that's now being nego-
tiated in Cairo. The position of our Gov-
ernment is now and has been that Israeli
settlements on occupied territory are ille-
gal and that they contravene the Geneva
conference decisions that were made.
The U.N. Resolution 242 is the basis for
the ultimate decision. All the nations in-
volved have espoused 242, and 338 later
on, which set up the Geneva conference
with ourselves and the Soviets as chair-
men. We have in that language that says
Israel will withdraw from occupied
territories.
Combined with that requirement,
though, is that Israel will have secure
borders, including a realization of security
from the attitude of her neighbors. So,
this is an extremely complicated subject, as
you well know. I can't say that on every
specific instance that President Sadat and
I will agree on details. We didn't discuss
those details.
And I think that it's best for us just to
add our good offices when we can, sup-
port both men as they go to the negotiat-
ing table. Secretary Vance will be in Jeru-
salem with the foreign ministers of the
two countries involved, and our position
on the settlements has not changed.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's twenty-third news
conference began at 2:30 p.m. in Room 450
of the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Multi-Year Budget Planning
Memorandum From the President.
January 12, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Multi-Year Budget Planning
The demanding task of preparing the
Federal Budget for fiscal year 1979 is al-
most complete. Your cooperation in this
task has been very gratifying.
During the process of preparing the
1979 Budget, I was reminded—as I am
sure you were that it has become very
difficult for either the Congress or the
President to plan budgets effectively just
one year in advance. Accordingly, I am
asking that your Fiscal 1980 Budget re-
quests be prepared as part of a three-
62
