Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 6
to-date account of my own visit, a report
on progress that has already taken place
and might take place in the Middle East.
We covered the economic strength of our
own country, the close ties that bind us
together not only militarily but politically
and economically.
We had a question-and-answer session
where several of the ambassadors pointed
out to me particular points of interest to
the United States, and I responded to
their comments as well. It was a very
fruitful exchange, and in less than 2 hours
we covered these ranges of interest which
have been important to all.
At the end I told our allies who were
represented there that we have nothing
to conceal from them; they are partners
in every sense of the word. And we have
had our Secretary of Defense, our Secre-
tary of State, the Vice President—just a
few hours after I became President and
now myself come here to the NATO
Headquarters to let our allies know that
the alliance is indeed intimate and one
that's unconstrained and, if any question
in the future ever arises about SALT ne-
gotiations, tactical weapons, budget plans,
soundness of the dollar, that they only
need to contact me directly, if necessary,
and they'll get an immediate answer.
I think any concerns have been alle-
viated, and I leave here with a great sense
of trust and a great sense of appreciation
for not only the strength of the alliance
in the past, the ties that have bound us
together philosophically and politically
and morally, but also with a sense of as-
surance about the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:40 p.m. in the
main hallway at NATO Headquarters.
The President's Overseas Trip
Remarks on Arrival at the White House.
January 6, 1978
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
we're delighted to welcome you and Ros-
alynn back to the Nation's Capital as you
return this evening from this most success-
ful and inspiring trip. We're delighted to
wish you a Happy New Year in person for
the first time this year, and we're de-
lighted that because of this trip, 1978 is
beginning on the best possible basis.
This trip was of tremendous impor-
tance and was a great success for our Na-
tion in many ways. First of all, it permit-
ted the President to deepen and broaden
the friendship and the sense of under-
standing and cooperation between him-
self and the leaders of the great nations
that he visited.
broadened the friendship of the American
Just as importantly, it deepened and
people with the peoples of those nations.
And the love and the affection that was so
walk amongst the peoples of those nations
apparent as we watched you meet and
showed the great love and affection
around the world that exists for our Na-
tion and its leaders.
This visit also permitted you to work
on some very important problems, and
the one that comes to mind immediately
is the Middle East, where your visits ar-
rived at the most important moment
when, during these historical develop-
ments, you were able to meet with the
leaders of Iran, Saudi Arabia, and of
course, Mr. Sadat in Aswan, to help keep
the momentum toward peace in the Mid-
dle East. Your conversation with Prime
Minister Begin also contributed to that
crucial process.
But perhaps most importantly your
visit and each stop on that visit demon-
39
