Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
through a reduction of the business cost
associated with telephone services.
Federal Unemployment Insurance Tax
I recommend a reduction in the Fed-
eral unemployment insurance tax to re-
duce the payroll costs of employers. On
January 1, 1978, the unemployment in-
surance tax rate rose from 0.5 percent to
0.7 percent of an employer's taxable wage
base. This tax increase was instituted in
order to replenish general revenue funds
that have been loaned to the unemploy-
ment insurance trust fund during recent
periods of high unemployment. But the
issue of unemployment compensation fi-
nancing requires a thorough reexamina-
tion to determine the best means of pro-
viding future benefits. To this end, I will
soon appoint the National Commission on
Unemployment Insurance which the
Congress established to make this study
and to offer recommendations. In the
meantime, I am guided by my concerns
about inflation. I propose that the tax
rate be reduced to the 0.5 percent level as
of January 1, 1979.
RECOMMENDED BUSINESS INCENTIVES TO
FOSTER GROWTH OF THE ECONOMY
Corporate Rate Cut
I recommend a corporate rate cut that
will reduce business taxes by $6 billion.
Tax relief in this form is sizable, easily
understood by taxpayers, and applicable
across the board.
The corporate tax rate is now 20 per-
cent on the first $25,000 of income, 22
percent on the next $25,000, and 48 per-
cent on corporate income exceeding
$50,000. Effective October 1, 1978, this
program will reduce the first two rate
brackets to 18 and 20 percent, respec-
tively, and the rate to 45 percent on tax-
able income in excess of $50,000. The top
rate will be reduced an additional point,
to 44 percent, on January 1, 1980. Small
as well as large corporations will benefit
from these rate cuts.
A corporate rate reduction of this mag-
nitude will increase capital formation and
help to assure a sustained economic recov-
ery. In recent years, the level of business
fixed investment has been unsatisfactory.
One of the primary causes of this inade-
quate investment performance has been
the low rate of return businesses receive on
their investments after tax liability is
taken into consideration. The lower tax
rates I recommend will enhance the antic-
ipated after-tax profits on corporate in-
vestment projects and increase cash flow
immediately. Businesses will thereby be
encouraged to increase capital spending
and to create jobs for American workers.
Corporate rate cuts this large are made
possible by, and depend upon, passage of
the revenue-raising business tax reforms
I have described earlier.
Liberalization of Investment Tax Credit
The investment tax credit has proven to
be one of the most potent tax incentives
for capital formation. It provides a direct
reduction in tax liability generally equal
to 10 percent of a business' qualifying
investments. But there are now several
limitations that restrict its effectiveness.
I recommend changes that will make
the investment credit a stronger, more
efficient, and more equitable incentive.
These changes will reduce business taxes
by approximately $2.5 billion per year.
(1) Permanent 10 Percent Credit. The
present 10 percent investment credit is not
a permanent feature of the Internal Rev-
enue Code. On January 1, 1981, the credit
level is scheduled to revert to 7 percent.
I propose that the credit be extended
permanently at a 10 percent rate so that
businesses can plan ahead with greater
certainty of the tax benefits that will be
174
