Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
the beauty of your city and how well it
was managed but I also felt a warmth and
a friendship extended to me which I shall
never forget.
In 1976, I came here to attend this
same annual Cook County Democratic
fundraising banquet. My escort that night
was a longtime friend, a quiet man, a
modest man, a dedicated man who was
compassionate, someone who was a good
administrator, a good Democrat, a good
political leader, Mayor Richard Daley.
And tonight I come back as the first
President to visit with you in, I think,
more than 9 years, escorted by a quiet
man, a modest man, a man filled with
sensitivity and compassion, a man who is
trusted, a man who's a good administra-
tor, a man who's a good Democrat, a man
who is a great political leader, my long-
time friend, Mike Bilandic.
It's no accident that you have elected
these two great leaders to guide Chicago
through difficult times. It's no accident
that your city government has a reputa-
tion of being the best in the country, be-
cause there is something special about the
Democratic Party in Cook County.
George and Mike and I were discussing
it briefly before we began to go around
to the different rooms. And there are
two things that are special about you.
The first one is that there is a closeness
that exists between the average citizen,
who may be very poor, who may be even
illiterate, who may be black, who may just
be learning to speak English, who may be
very young or very old, who has a timid
voice, who's still close, in Cook County at
least, to the highest elected officials in
government. And the reason for it is the
Cook County Democratic organizational
structure.
Now, you might, having lived here all
your lives, not see what you have that
most other Americans don't have, because
here a timid voice with a doubt or a fear
or a concern or a need or a hope or a
dream can be heard. But in many parts
of our country that's not the case. And
when your committeeman or your alder-
man or others, every Monday night, or
one night in the week, is there in the
precinct, in a block, accessible, and you
can take your problems to him and say,
"I'm out of a job," or I need this or that,
you have access directly to the mayor and
even higher officials in Washington.
So, the closeness that exists because of
this organizational structure is something
of which you should be very proud. And
the other one is the essence of the Demo-
cratic Party everywhere. We know who
put us in office. We don't forget. And to
the extent that we remember that and
provide, to the best we can, service, to
that extent we deserve to stay in office.
Well, this is a special honor for me, to
come and meet with this group, hundreds
of people in this room, a part of a much
larger group tonight, a family of 7,000
representing tens of thousands of others
who can't be here with us. Your successes
in the past have been notable. You are ad-
mired by people all over the country. And
this tight-knit organization is one that I
hope you will not only cherish but even
strengthen. And although you have made
a contribution tonight just by being here
and you might be committed that in No-
vember you'll go to the polls and vote, and
maybe take your own family, I hope that
you'll recognize 1978 is going to be a very
difficult year in Illinois for Democrats, be-
cause at the highest levels of government
Democrats are the challengers, and it's
hard to upset an incumbent.
So, I hope that this year, remembering
your past successes and your past history,
each one of you will become a very en-
thusiastic, unselfish campaign manager
and to try to spread your influence as wide
as you can to be successful in this tough
election period. And I believe that if you
will, that this coming November, on elec-
tion night, you and I together will again
981
