May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
shall be compensated at the rate now or
hereafter provided for level V of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule. The General Counsel
shall perform such duties as the Authority
shall from time to time prescribe, includ-
ing but not limited to the duty of deter-
mining and presenting facts required by
the Authority in order to decide unfair
labor practice complaints.
SECTION 303. The Federal Service Im-
passes Panel. The Federal Service Im-
passes Panel, established under Executive
Order 11491, as amended, (the "Panel")
shall continue, and shall be a distinct or-
ganizational entity within the Authority.
SECTION 304. Functions. Subject to the
provisions of Section 306, the following
functions are hereby transferred:
(a) To the Authority-
(1) The functions of the Federal Labor
Relations Council pursuant to Executive
Order 11491, as amended;
(2) The functions of the Civil Service
Commission under Sections 4(a) and 6
(e) of Executive Order 11491, as
amended;
(3) The functions of the Assistant Sec-
retary of Labor for Labor-Management
Relations, under Executive Order 11491,
as amended, except for those functions
related to alleged violations of the stand-
ards of conduct for labor organizations
pursuant to Section 6(a) (4) of said Ex-
ecutive Order; and,
(b) to the Panel-the functions and
authorities of the Federal Service Im-
passes Panel, pursuant to Executive Or-
der 11491, as amended.
SECTION 305. Authority Decisions. The
decisions of the Authority on any matter
within its jurisdiction shall be final and
not subject to judicial review.
SECTION 306. Other Provisions. Unless
and until modified, revised, or revoked,
all policies, regulations, and procedures
established, and decisions issued, under
Executive Order 11491, as amended, shall
remain in full force and effect. There is
hereby expressly reserved to the President
the power to modify the functions trans-
ferred to the Federal Labor Relations Au-
thority and the Federal Service Impasses
Panel pursuant to Section 304 of this
Plan.
SECTION 307. Savings Provision. All
matters which relate to the functions
transferred by Section 304 of this Plan,
and which are pending on the effective
date of the establishment of the Author-
ity before the Federal Labor Relations
Council, the Vice Chairman of the Civil
Service Commission, or the Assistant Sec-
retary of Labor for Labor-Management
Relations shall continue before the Au-
thority under such rules and procedures
as the Authority shall prescribe. All such
matters pending on the effective date of
the establishment of the Authority before
the Panel, shall continue before the Panel
under such rules and procedures as the
Panel shall prescribe.
PART IV. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 401. Incidental Transfer. So
much of the personnel, property, records,
and unexpended balances of appropria-
tions, allocations and other funds em-
ployed, used, held, available, or to be
made available in connection with the
functions transferred under this Plan, as
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall determine, shall be trans-
ferred to the appropriate agency, or com-
ponent at such time or times as the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget shall provide, except that no such
unexpended balances transferred shall be
used for purposes other than those for
which the appropriation was originally
made. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall provide for
terminating the affairs of any agencies
abolished herein and for such further
958
