Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 28
present time, we have an excess surplus on
hand, and as you've shifted from the
smaller tractors and livestock cultivation
to the very large tractors, you've cut out
the windrows and, in effect, you've gone
to a fence-to-fence operation.
This has amounted to about, I think, a
50-million acre increase in the land being
cultivated. So, with our present set-aside
program and the present farm program,
we have a step in the right direction. And
we will assess other factors, the carryover
crops, prospective worldwide production
for this 1978 year, the lending capability
of farm banks, the amount of debt car-
ried over-we'll analyze all those fac-
tors and decide whether to use the flexi-
bility in the present law or to ask for addi-
tional legislation. We have not yet decided.
SOVIET COSMOS SATELLITE
Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied with
the response of the Soviets when you asked
for information on the satellite that was
burned?
THE PRESIDENT. That's hard to say. We
discovered that the satellite was having a
problem back in December-I don't re-
member the exact day.
I made the decision myself to contact
the Soviets. We told them that we were
aware of the problem, asked them for any
information about the satellite, and told
them unofficially that we would not try to
capitalize on their misfortune in a propa-
ganda way.
We wanted to be sure that the adequate
preparation was made for the reentry of
the satellite into the atmosphere, and we
notified some of our key allies around the
world who would have the capability both
to monitor the progress of the satellite and
also to deal with radioactivity once it fell.
I had a difficult decision to make in how
much publicity to bring to this satellite,
because it's almost impossible to let people
know the facts without the threat being
exaggerated, and we didn't want to create
exaggerated fears.
We monitored the satellite constantly.
We shared with the Soviets estimates of
when it would come down. The exact
point of its penetration of the atmosphere
was not known until just an hour or two
before it crashed, because it was tumbling.
And when a satellite of that kind enters
the atmosphere, it can skip off and go sev-
eral thousands of miles further than you
have actually anticipated.
We knew that it would fall somewhere
between just north of Hawaii, northeast of
Hawaii, or the eastern side of Africa. And
it was making a great circle route up above
the point where it finally fell. That was
just about the northern point.
The Soviets did tell us, in general, what
kind of reactor it was. They told us that
their best estimate was it would burn as it
entered the atmosphere.
So, I can't-without going back and
checking the exact language of their re-
port to us—I can't say whether they gave
us all the facts. But I think it was handled
properly; certainly, by us.
I don't know who else the Soviets noti-
fied. When I found that it was going to hit
Canada, early that morning—I come over
here quite early in the morning—I called
the Prime Minister of Canada and talked
to him on the phone. And we were pretty
lucky in telling him where it was going
into the atmosphere. We had it on radar.
But in retrospect, it may be that the
Soviets could have given us more infor-
mation. I think they probably gave us
about what we would have given them in
a similar circumstance.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I've enjoyed talking
to you very much. It's always a pleasure
to have you here. It helps me to have
your questions. We tend to get a Wash-
241
