Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 19
year 1978 in credit under the Arms Ex-
port Control Act, and the utilization by
Zaire of the uncommitted balance of
credit extended to Zaire under the Arms
Export Control Act in any prior fiscal
year, are important to the national secu-
rity interests of the United States; and
(b) Such assistance should be fur-
nished to Zaire in the national security
interests of the United States.
You are requested on my behalf to re-
port this determination to the Congress,
as required by law. You are also re-
quested to keep the Congress fully and
currently informed on the specific details
of how the assistance to Zaire is utilized.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:45 p.m., May 22, 1978]
bat should ever come again, we will meet
it with courage, and devotion to our coun-
try.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate Memorial Day,
May 29, 1978, as a day for all Americans
to join together in prayer for lasting
peace. To that end, I designate the hour
beginning in each locality at 11 o'clock
on the morning of that day as the appro-
priate time for the American people to
unite in prayer.
I call upon the appropriate officials of
all levels of government to fly the flag at
half-staff until noon during Memorial
Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval
vessels throughout the United States and
in all areas under its jurisdiction and con-
trol. I request the people of the United
States to display the flag at half-staff from
their homes and other suitable places for
the same customary forenoon period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day, unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
May 29, 1978
Proclamation 4572. May 19, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
We pause at this time of year to re-
member those who sacrificed their lives
over the last two centuries to preserve
America's freedoms.
We honor them today for their faith in
the principles of liberty and justice which
motivated our founding fathers, and must
motivate us today.
The highest tribute we can pay those
who fought and sometimes died for our
country is to strengthen in time of peace
those values for which they struggled in
time of war.
Let us pray for peace, but let us also
vow that, if the test of unavoidable com-
May, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:11 p.m., May 19, 1978]
Presidential Election in the
Dominican Republic
Statement by the President. May 19, 1978
I am seriously concerned about events
surrounding the election in the Domini-
can Republic and have been in touch
with the Presidents of several neighboring
countries in Latin America and with the
Secretary General of the Organization of
American States (OAS) concerning the
931
