Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
the South African regime, particularly in
economic and military matters, which
tend to sustain the apartheid machinery
of repression and persecution of the ma-
jority, indigenous African population.
Your country's little gestures of disen-
gagement in this regard are welcome, and
we hope, Mr. President, that they mark
the beginnings of a realization that, put
together, black Africa as a whole offers
wider economic possibilities as an alter-
native choice than South Africa alone,
and that without a peaceful change of
policy of apartheid now, any investment
in South Africa is a risky and insecure
investment.
In Zimbabwe, your country and the
British colonial authority have, over the
past 1 year, embarked together on a
search for a durable, just, and acceptable
settlement, leading to an early transfer
of power to the majority population of
the land.
We have joined those who believe that
the Anglo-American proposals for a
peaceful settlement ought to be given a
chance, and we were quick to say so. This
we have done because we believe that
these proposals contain sufficient positive
elements to serve as bases for bringing
about true independence in Zimbabwe,
and we think it will not be wise to throw
away the baby with the bath water.
We expressed our concern when it ap-
peared to us that these proposals were not
being pursued with as much candor and
enthusiasm as Africa had hoped. With
total rejection of the so-called internal
settlement of Ian Smith by the world com-
munity, and your personal continued sup-
port for the Anglo-American proposals,
we are gratified to note that the proposals
are back on the rails once again.
We assure you of our positive support
in the search for an early establishment
of unqualified democracy in a truly inde-
pendent Zimbabwe. Similarly, in Nami-
bia, we are encouraged to note the posi-
tive role which the United States of
America is playing in collaboration with
other Western powers to usher in an era
of independence and so end South Africa's
illegal military occupation.
We stand firmly by SWAPO in their
struggles for the freedom of their father-
land, and we also pledge to work cease-
lessly to see that peace and justice return
to that part of our continent in the con-
text of true independence.
We believe that a truly independent
Namibia and a South Africa, rid of the
inhuman policy of apartheid, can live to-
gether as good neighbors in harmony and
cooperation.
As you will be fully aware, our newly
independent states in Africa have not been
spared the ordeal of spending their mea-
ger resources in the prosecution of fratri-
cidal and often futile wars, in many cases
with encouragement by powers from ideo-
logical camps outside the continent who
are seeking ideological, economic, and
strategic spheres of influence.
It is Africa's desire to settle her own
disputes our own way, if necessary under
the auspices of the Organization of Afri-
can Unity.
While we are naturally preoccupied
with peace and security in the African
continent in the first instance, I believe
the point is worth emphasizing here that
Africa is equally interested in the current
efforts at détente between East and West,
as this is the only dependable means of
ensuring peace and stability in the world
and development all around, especially in
new states. For the same reasons, we are
vitally interested in an early restoration of
just and durable peace in the Middle
East.
On the question of world peace, Mr.
President, what applies to Africa in
terms of congenial atmosphere and con-
ditions for development applies equally to
657
