Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
negotiators in Jerusalem and not with-
draw them that day. He said that his deci-
sion could not be reversed then. So, we
shifted our conversation to the prospect of
keeping open the invitation for the mili-
tary negotiators to meet, and he agreed
that that should continue. But he was
quite concerned.
Q. He almost sounded like he was con-
tinuing the military portion almost as a
favor to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think it
was that. I don't think my role was that
significant. But my belief is that both
Prime Minister Begin and President
Sadat have a standard political prob-
lem-one is that they have large con-
stituencies on their own side whom they
have to represent, and at the same time,
they are trying to lead those constitu-
encies toward a reconciliation.
I'm sure there is some strategic and
tactical component of what their speeches
have been. I believe that at least up until
this moment, they both trust us to act in
good faith, and that's what we are trying
to do. The more responsibility they take
on themselves to negotiate
to negotiate directly,
though, the better the prospects are for a
rapid agreement.
Q. What is the next step now? Assum-
ing the military talks do commence to-
morrow, I believe, what is the next step to
get those political talks going again?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I think
a lot of it will depend upon President
Sadat's speech to his own Parliament to-
morrow. I don't know what he will say.
Obviously, one of the great things that
brought the leaders together was a direct
appeal through the news media to mil-
lions of people, to the world, indeed.
I think one of the obstacles now in prog-
ress is that overinclination to negotiate
through the news media, because these
matters in which we've been involved as
an administration for a full year are very
sensitive, very sharply defined, and they
are much better worked out privately,
where there can be a discussion of a word
or a nuance or a phrase or an idea among
negotiators without arousing the sharp
feelings of millions of people, and where
they can be resolved and substitute words
or phrases or ideas can be initiated. That's
very difficult to do in a public forum
through the news media.
So, we hope to get, all of us, reconciled
to the fact that the negotiators should
deal with these items, recognize that there
will be public statements that tend to ag-
gravate and exacerbate the situation, but
that that ought not to be a call or a reason
for the negotiators to stop their work.
It's going to be a tedious process, and
I'm sure we'll have ups and downs in the
future.
Q. You know, in that connection, what
you just mentioned, there's a theory that
President Sadat did this, this dramatic
move, trying to get you to put pressure
on Israel to make more concessions.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with
that. In my own private communications
with President Sadat, both through dip-
lomatic dispatch and the telephone, my
assessment is that he has been quite sin-
cere in what he's done, that it's not
posturing and not designed to influence
our action one way or the other.
My guess is that President Sadat knows
quite well that our influence on Israel is
limited, and I think that Prime Minister
Begin knows quite well that our influence
on President Sadat and the Egyptians is
quite limited.
But we are always there to assuage ill
feelings and to offer substitute wording
and, when the talks and discussions stag-
nate, to try to add some momentum to
them; when they have a momentum of
their own, for us to withdraw and play
a lesser role.
152
