Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 4
that I am among my own people and
know that my steps will not be hindered,
because I walk the same path as Your
Majesty, King Khalid, toward a common
goal of even greater friendship among our
people, between our two countries, and of
peace for all the people of the world.
Your Majesty, we are glad to be in your
great country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:17 p.m. at
Riyadh Airport. King Khalid spoke in Arabic,
and his remarks were translated by an inter-
preter.
Following the arrival ceremony, the Presi-
dent met with King Khalid at the Royal Guest
Palace.
Later that evening, the President attended a
working dinner at the King's Palace. Follow-
ing the dinner, he met with Crown Prince
Fahd bin Abd al-Aziz Al Sa'ud, the First Deputy
Prime Minister, at the Royal Guest Palace.
Aswan, Egypt
Remarks of the President and President
Anwar al-Sadat Following Their Meeting.
January 4, 1978
President Sadat. Ladies and gentlemen,
morning.
I want to tell you that it is a very happy
occasion for me and for my people, also,
to receive our dear friend, President Car-
ter, here on the Egyptian land. We would
have liked that this visit would have
lasted a bit longer, but we know his com-
mitments.
We had a very intensive and fruitful
talk upon the whole arena—in particular,
the conflict here in the Middle East and
the whole international position and our
bilateral relations. I am very happy to say
that our views were identical, and we
have agreed upon certain steps to keep
the momentum of the peace process.
All I ask is let us have in a very short
time the opportunity to welcome Presi-
dent Carter and to show him the grati-
tude of my people and myself.
In the same time, may I say that in the
peace process we welcome all the parties
concerned. And they are welcome when-
ever they find it convenient to them, be-
cause this time, as I have already re-
peated before, we are heading towards
peace and real peace in the area, perma-
nent peace.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Sadat,
people of Egypt:
It is an honor and a pleasure for us to
be in this great country, led by such a
strong and courageous man.
Mr. President, your bold initiative in
seeking peace has aroused the admiration
of the entire world. One of my most val-
used possessions is the warm, personal re-
lationship which binds me and President
Sadat together and which exemplifies the
friendship and the common purpose of
the people of Egypt and the people of the
United States of America.
The Egptian-Israeli peace initiative
must succeed, while still guarding the
sacred and historic principles held by the
nations who have suffered so much in this
region. There is no good reason why ac-
commodation cannot be reached.
In my own private discussions with
both Arab and Israeli leaders, I have been
deeply impressed by the unanimous desire
for peace. My presence here today is a di-
rect result of the courageous initiative
which President Sadat undertook in his
recent trip to Jerusalem.
The negotiating process will continue
in the near future. We fully support this
effort, and we intend to play an active
role in the work of the political commit-
tee of Cairo, which will soon reconvene in
Jerusalem.
19
