Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
General Services Administration, and the
Environmental Protection Agency, and
has developed proposals to make their
actions more supportive of urban areas.
As a result of this massive effort, the
Federal government has become more
sensitive to urban problems and more
committed to their solutions.
The review of existing Federal pro-
grams has resulted in more than 150 im-
provements in existing programs. Most of
these improvements can be undertaken
immediately through administrative ac-
tion. Some will require legislation. None
will increase the Federal budget.
A few examples of the improvements
are:
• All agencies will develop goals and
timetables for minority participation in
their grants and contracts-five major
agencies have already begun.
• The Defense Department will set up
a new program to increase procurement
in urban areas.
• EPA will modify its water and sewer
program to discourage wasteful sprawl.
• HUD has retargeted the Tandem
Mortgage Assistance Program to provide
greater support for urban housing.
The existing countercyclical fiscal
assistance program will be retargeted to
help governments with unemployment
rates above the national average.
• HUD and EDA are developing com-
mon planning and application require-
ments.
• The General Services Administra-
tion will attempt to locate Federal facil-
ities in cities whenever such a location is
not inconsistent with the agency's mission.
• The Department of Transportation
has proposed legislation to consolidate
many categories of urban highway and
transit grants, and to standardize the
local matching share. These steps will
provide local governments with greater
flexibility to develop transportation sys-
tems suited to their needs.
Protection
• The Environmental
Agency will amend its regulations to ac-
commodate new economic development
in high pollution areas. Localities will be
permitted to "bank" reductions in pollu-
tion which result from firms going out of
business. These reductions then can be
transferred to new firms locating in the
community.
The effect of all these changes may be
greater than even the substantial new ini-
tiatives which I have proposed in this
message.
NEW INITIATIVES
The new initiatives which I am an-
nouncing today address five major urban
needs:
1) Improving the operation of Fed-
eral, State and local governments
2) Employment and Economic Devel-
opment
3) Fiscal Assistance
4) Community and Human Develop-
ment
5) Neighborhoods and Voluntary As-
sociations
These initiatives require $4.4 billion in
budget authority, $1.7 billion in new tax
incentives, and $2.2 billion in guaranteed
loan authority in FY 1979. For FY 1980
the budget authority will be $6.1 billion,
the tax incentives $1.7 billion and the
guaranteed loan authority $3.8 billion.
I. IMPROVING THE OPERATION OF FEDERAL,
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Federal Programs
Over the long run, reorganization of
the economic and community develop-
ment programs may be necessary. Last
June, I directed my reorganization proj-
ect staff in the Office of Management and
Budget to begin exploring the reorganiza-
584
