Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
It would require me to submit to the
Congress an economic plan over several
years, 4 or 5 years, that would ultimately
lead to the realization of those goals. So,
I think the planning concept, the involve-
ment of all the elements who determine
the outcome of our economic goals, would
be a step in the right direction itself, and
it would put a heavy emphasis on the
reduction of unemployment.
INDIAN LAND CLAIMS
Q. Mr. President, John Day of Bangor
News. Mr. President, last October you
were quoted as saying that Judge Gunter's
recommendations for settling the Maine
Indian suit were fair and equitable.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. The new proposals which your task
force has recently recommended have
been severely criticized. What leads you to
believe that the new recommendations are
more fair and equitable than the old ones
submitted by Judge Gunter, the difference
being that the new recommendations call
for substantial contributions from the
private landowners of the State as op-
posed to no contributions under Judge
Gunter's proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
Judge Gunter's proposal concerning the
Maine land issue involving the Indians
was not accepted by the Indians. And
when it was rejected by the State, the
landowners, and the Indians, then I ap-
pointed a task force headed up by Bo Cut-
ter (Eliot Cutler), who happens, coinci-
dentally, to be from Bangor, Maine, to try
to work out an agreement.
We have now reached an agreement as
far as the Federal Government is con-
cerned, represented by me, and the Indian
tribes. It would not require any further
negotiation nor litigation by any land-
owner in Maine who owns less than
50,000 acres of land.
2 Printed in the transcript.
It does leave up to the State of Maine
and, I think, 14 landowners who have
more than 50,000 acres, an option with-
out any constraint on them-they can
either accept the negotiated settlement,
they can negotiate further for a better
settlement for themselves, perhaps, or they
can continue to litigate in court.
The reason that I got involved in it,
reluctantly, I might say, was because al-
most every piece of property in Maine
was potentially tied up in a lawsuit, could
not be bought or sold, and I could foresee
a very serious economic consequence to
Maine unless I made some effort to ad-
dress it.
This settlement would cost the Federal
Government about $25 million. But I
would like to point out, too, that we are
bound by law—that is, the Department of
Interior, represented legally by the Attor-
ney General-to represent the Indians.
And this is a recent development,
brought about, as you know, by the dis-
covery of some old treaty papers, I think
in 1971, and we've tried to expedite the
process. But there is no constraint on the
large landowners nor the State to accept
the settlement that we have evolved.
That's up to them.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, as you know, the coal
strike has passed all records in length.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Do you feel that the negotiators have
really reached a point of being irrespon-
sible in not reaching a settlement?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't ascribe ir-
responsibility to the negotiators.
When the negotiations broke down,
when the bargaining council refused to
accept for presentation to the miners the
first agreement, that's the point at which
I decided to intercede.
337
