May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
there are a few more points I want to
make specifically.
The Council on Environmental Quality
recently estimated that we could meet as
much as one-fourth of our energy de-
mands for solar sources by the end of
this century, and perhaps more than half
by the year 2020. We must continue to
make progress toward these goals.
The Department of Energy believes
that photovoltaic cells can be competitive
with conventional energy sources, perhaps
as early as 1990. The Energy Depart-
ment is working on many projects
many projects
throughout this country, indeed through-
out the world.
In fiscal 1979, with heating and cooling
demonstrations, tax credits, and research
and development with photovoltaics,
wind, ocean thermals, and biomass, my
total Federal proposal for solar energy
amounts to more than one-half billion
dollars. This is an increase of 64 percent
in just 2 years.
In addition, I've been saving a small
surprise for this particular occasion.
We've been researching our energy needs
in the last few months, and I have just
instructed the Department of Energy,
through reprograming, to provide an
additional $100 million for expanded
efforts in solar research development
demonstration projects and the develop-
ment of commercial uses, such as wind-
mills, in the next fiscal year.
This is an appropriate day to concen-
trate Government effort on solar energy-
[laughter] but the bulk of the effort
must be done still by private enterprise,
by individual initiative, and by the inven-
tive genius of the United States.
I don't want to skip over mentioning a
few leaders here in Colorado. Your neigh-
bor, George Löf, has lived in and designed
solar homes since almost any American
since 1945. The Christian Reform Church
Center of Hope is a solar showplace. Sam
Primack has built dozens of solar-
equipped houses in and around Denver.
And they've been at a premium, with
homeowners demanding the right to pur-
chase such homes. The Federal Govern-
ment is helping these kinds of projects all
over our Nation.
Today I'm asking a domestic policy
review of all our departments in the Fed-
eral Government, under the leadership of
Jim Schlesinger, to go into more ways
how every agency of Government can
help solar energy become a part of the
everyday life of American citizens.
Let me just say in closing that solar
energy can already be a paying proposi-
tion, and American technological genius
can bring the same blessings that the rural
electrification program brought to me and
millions of others when I lived as a small
boy in Plains, Georgia.
I'm confident that American science
and industry will lead the way in this
new market here and in the developing
nations of the world, as they earlier did in
the spread of American aerospace, elec-
tronic, and computer technology.
These, then, are the challenges that we
are finally beginning to meet. These are
the challenges that we can meet, just as
we met the challenge of the space race.
And these are the challenges, with the
help of all of you, that we will meet.
Sun Day may be the beginning and the
dawning of the second solar age.
With
your help, we'll make this prediction come
true.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. fol-
lowing a tour of the Solar Energy Research
Institute. Dr. Paul Rappaport is director of
the institute.
The President proclaimed May 3, 1978, as
Sun Day by Proclamation 4558, of March 27.
The text of the proclamation is printed on
page 574 of this volume.
826
