Jan. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
applicability to persons who have com-
pleted their volunteer service on or before
that date shall begin on such effective
date.
The White House,
January 10, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:57 p.m., January 11, 1978]
NOTE: The Executive order was announced
by the White House on January 11.
National Commission on
Employment and
Unemployment Statistics
Nomination of Eight Members.
January 11, 1978
The President today announced eight
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Commission on
Employment and Unemployment Statis-
tics. They are:
BERNARD E. ANDERSON, an associate professor
of industry at the Wharton School, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, and formerly an econo-
mist with the U.S. Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics;
GLEN G. CAIN, a professor of economics at
the University of Wisconsin and member of
the National Council on Employment Policy;
JACK W. CARLSON, vice president and chief
economist of the Chamber of Commerce of
the United States, president of Carlson As-
sociates, and a consultant to financial, utility,
manufacturing, and research organizations;
MICHAEL H. MOSкow, a full-time consultant
to the Committee for Economic Develop-
ment and former Under Secretary of Labor
and Director of the Council on Wage and
Price Stability;
RUDOLPH A. OSWALD, director of the depart-
ment of research of the AFL-CIO and
Chairman of the Labor Research Advisory
Committee to the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics;
SAMUEL L. POPKIN, an associate professor of
political science at the University of Cali-
fornia at San Diego;
MITCHELL SVIRIDOFF, vice president of the
Ford Foundation for the division of national
affairs and former administrator of the New
York City Human Resources Administration;
JOAN L. WILLS, director of the National Gov-
ernors' Conference employment and voca-
tional training program and former director
of the Illinois Governor's Office of Man-
power and Human Development.
Drug Abuse Prevention
Week, 1978
Proclamation 4544. January 11, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
History teaches us that almost every
discovery or invention designed to make
our lives a little better can, in the wrong
hands, become an instrument of tragedy
and suffering. Nothing better illustrates
this than the problem of drug abuse in
America. When used properly, today's
drugs can work miracles that were un-
imaginable only a short time ago. When
they fall into the hands of the immature,
the careless, the ignorant, or the despair-
ing, their effects can be devastating.
If we are to rid our society of the prob-
lem of drug abuse, we must first rid our-
selves of the idea that it is confined to a
single group. Drug abusers include the
busy executive who cannot function with-
out the aid of heavy drinking, the youth
who is addicted to heroin, and the victim
of disease who grows dependent upon pre-
scribed medication.
Once we understand that the problem
does not derive from a single source, we
can appreciate the futility of attempting
to seek a single solution. Controlling the
availability of drugs and seeking better
methods of treating the drug abuser are
52
52
