Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 2
But in that competition, again the hu-
man factor can never be forgotten.
Phyllis Lanphere, who did a good job, I
thought, with her new southern accent-
[laughter]-pointed out the need for us
to understand future growth and econom-
ic development, because with the evolu-
tion of new technologies, a shift away
from manufacturing toward an increased
employment in providing human serv-
ices, a change from one part of the coun-
try to another, in different forms and
rates of growth, a comprehension of those
future trends is very important to us all.
We live in a time of impending crisis,
when almost unlimited national and nat-
ural resources are being observed and
understood as limited. And how to ac-
commodate that change is going to be a
challenge to us all.
And finally, Chancellor Norton pointed
out the need for streamlining government
to make it more efficient, more effective,
better organized, more easily understood
regulations, uniformity of standards. This
is a goal that we've espoused with great
fervor in our administration. And I've
had the chancellors of universities and the
presidents in, and I've said, "You give
me a list of all the reports and forms that
have to be filled out for HEW and the
ones you think can be made not at all,
the monthly reports that might be made
counting the other agencies of Govern-
ment, they exceeded the goal by 50 per-
cent. We've set new goals this year. So,
we are trying.
The Congress has given me authority to
reorganize the Federal Government, and
we are trying. And we need your help, and
we need your support. And I notice with
care the word "decentralization." And I
agree completely with that concept.
Let me say in closing that your work
will not be in vain. There have been too
many reports compiled by well-meaning
and competent conferees and planners
which have never been read nor used. We
are determined that the work that you've
done this week will bear rich fruits.
Juanita Kreps, all my Cabinet, the
White House staff, I'm sure the Congress
appreciates what you have done. And I
believe that as a result of your work, we'll
together, with a much more effective po-
have an even greater nation, bound closer
tential in life for the people about whom
we all care so deeply those that are not
here this morning but whom we try with
increasing dedication to represent well.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in
the Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Gov.
John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia,
Chairman of the Conference's Advisory Com-
annually, the five-page reports that might mittee, Secretary of Commerce Juanita M.
be limited to five lines. Be specific about
it, and we'll change it."
I told the same thing to the represent-
atives of the American Chamber of Com-
merce, the National Association of Man-
ufacturers, the National Association of
Businessmen, the State School Superin-
tendents, to be specific in their recom-
mendation for specific improvements,
and we'll do it.
We set a goal last year for cutting down
paperwork. In HEW alone, not even
Kreps, and Senator Jennings Randolph of West
Virginia.
Prior to the President's remarks, reports were
presented on major theme areas considered by
the Conference participants by workshop chair-
persons Paul N. Ylvisaker, dean of graduate
education of Harvard University, Ortense
Dixon, vice president of Texas Southern Uni-
versity, Charlotte Williams, Genesee County
(Mich.) Commissioner, Charles E. Bishop,
president of the University of Arkansas, Phyllis
Lanphere, member of the Seattle, Wash., city
council, and James A. Norton, chancellor of
higher education for the State of Ohio.
269
