Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
havoc with the administrative machinery
of the Department of Agriculture, and
cripple American farm families through
increased costs. It's bad for farmers, it's
bad for the consumers, it's bad for our
Nation.
I will veto any farm legislation, beyond
what I have already recommended, that
would lead to higher food costs or budget
expenditures.
Housing construction rates have been
running about 2 million a year, and this
has caused costs to go up rapidly, partly
because of sharp increases in the prices of
raw material, such as lumber. Since lum-
ber accounts for about one-fourth of the
cost of a new house, we can obtain some
relief by increasing production and using
our existing lumber output more effi-
ciently. Therefore, I've instructed the De-
partments of Agriculture and Interior, the
Council on Environmental Quality, and
also my economic advisers, to report to
me within 30 days on the best ways to sus-
tain expanded timber harvests from Fed-
eral, State, and private lands, and other
means of increasing lumber yields in
ways that would be environmentally ac-
ceptable, economically efficient, and con-
sistent with sound budget policy.
Daily hospital costs have jumped from
$15 in 1950 to over $200 today. And
physicians' fees have gone up 75 percent
faster than other consumer prices.
It's very important that Congress act
now on the proposed hospital cost con-
tainment bill as the most effective means
that we can take toward reasonable
hospital prices. Failure of Congress to
act on the hospital cost containment leg-
islation will cost the taxpayers of our
country more than $18 billion in needless
Government spending over the next 5
years.
Together with the airline deregulation
bill, this is one of the two most important
measures the Congress can pass to prevent
inflation.
These measures so far have been de-
layed by the opposition of powerful lob-
bying groups. I will continue to give this
legislation my full support, and I call on
the leaders of Congress to do the same.
Such Government actions as I've dis-
cussed briefly can be important steps to-
ward controlling inflation. But it is a myth
that the Government itself can stop in-
flation. Success or failure in this overall
effort will be largely determined by the
actions of the private sector of our econ-
omy.
I expect industry and labor to keep
price, wage and salary increases signif-
icantly below the average rate for the
last 2 years. Those who set medical fees,
legal and other professional fees, college
tuition rates, insurance premiums, and
other service charges must also join in.
This will not be easy. But the example of
Federal action must be matched. Infla-
tion cannot be solved by placing the bur-
den of fighting it only on a few.
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility recently began a series of meetings
with representatives of business and of
labor in major industries such as steel,
automobiles, aluminum, paper, railroads,
food processing, communications, lum-
ber, and the Postal Service. In consul-
tation with these private parties and
others, the Council will identify the rate
at which prices, wages, and other costs
have been rising in recent years, the out-
look for the year ahead, and the steps
that can be taken to reduce inflation.
Let me be blunt about this point: I
am asking American workers to follow the
example of Federal workers and accept a
lower rate of wage increase. In return,
they have a right to expect a comparable
restraint in price increases for the goods
and services they buy.
725
