May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
still waits for a clear concept of how used
nuclear fuels can be stored and pre-
served, perhaps for additional use in the
future, without danger to our life or the
quality of our existence.
We've initiated-Secretary Schlesinger,
working closely with me, Secretary
of State Vance, and others—an interna-
tional nuclear fuel cycle study to evalu-
ate the inventory of nuclear fuels through-
out the world, how they might be mined,
how they might be purified or concen-
trated in their fissionable qualities, how
they might be burned more expeditiously
and with higher efficiency, how the power
from them might be distributed, how we
might prevent their being converted into
explosives for the destruction of human-
kind, and how the waste might be dis-
posed.
These are questions of increasing in-
terest to many nations in the world who
have not yet been involved in the nuclear
generation, but we and our own allies and
friends, even our potential political ene-
mies are trying to work now in harmony
to answer many of these questions which
address you.
And the last point that I'd like to make
that is a major responsibility of yours that
I recognize very clearly, is that of public
education. I think there are a lot of mis-
apprehensions about energy of all kinds, in
particular, nuclear fuels.
We've tried to expedite the licensing
process. It takes, quite often, 12 years or
so from the time when a decision is made,
a firm decision to construct a nuclear
powerplant in the United States, to the
time it actually begins to produce usable
quantities of electricity or other power.
This is excessive time required.
And the proper balancing of environ-
mental constraints with the expeditious
supply of nuclear power for our people is
one that is a responsibility of yours and
also of mine.
So, I recognize that you have great
work ongoing here, some much too ad-
vanced for me to comprehend or to under-
stand. But you've got my appreciation and
my support.
And I hope that this visit here will
not only be instructive for me but it will
help to clarify some of the interrelation-
ships that exist between you and me, and
will let me, Frank Press, my Science Ad-
viser, Dr. Schlesinger, who's head of the
new Department of Energy, and you work
with a greater sense of partnership, mu-
tual commitment, and the assurance of
success that we have experienced even in
the past.
So, on behalf of the people of our coun-
try, I want to thank you and express my
admiration for what you've already
achieved and let you know that I am
sure, because of the quality of your work,
that your achievements will be much
greater and much more beneficial in the
future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m. in the
Central Auditorium at the Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory Headquarters. Following his
remarks, the President, Secretary of Energy
James R. Schlesinger, John M. Deutch, Di-
rector of the Office of Energy Research, De-
partment of Energy, and Frank Press, Director
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
participated in the discussion with Oak Ridge
scientists.
During his visit to the Oak Ridge facilities,
the President viewed several displays in con-
nection with the Laboratory's research and
toured the Gaseous Diffusion Facility.
Presidential Management
Improvement Awards
Remarks on Presenting the Awards for 1977.
May 23, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. We seem to have the
Rose Garden full of proud people this
950
