Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 2
denial of human rights, freedom from
want and suffering, and freedom from the
destruction of war and foreign interven-
tion.
Nigeria is a great and influential nation,
a regional and an international leader.
We stand by you in your work. We know
that Africans will always take the lead in
shaping the destiny of your own people.
And we know that this continent will en-
joy the liberation that can come to those
who put racial division and injustice be-
hind them.
I believe that this day is coming for
Africa. And on that day, blacks and
whites alike will be able to say, in the
words of a great man from my own State,
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., "Free at
last, free at last, great God Almighty, we
are free at last."
Thank you very much.
DR. AKINYEMI. Mr. President, Your
Excellencies, the biggest honor which we
in this country confer on people whom we
respect is not to ignore them. In the next
coming days, weeks, and months, every
word you've uttered here this evening is
going to be analyzed, is going to be dis-
sected. And, Mr. President, we'll keep you
informed of it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: Bolaji Akinyemi, director general of
the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs,
spoke at 3:45 p.m. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Joseph Nanven
Garba, Commissioner for External Affairs.
Lagos, Nigeria
Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters Following Meetings Between
the President and General Obasanjo.
April 2, 1978
SOUTHERN AFRICA POLICY
Q. Mr. President, is there any connec-
tion between your public position on
southern African policy and how you take
your votes at the Security Council on
southern Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. We have, as you know,
only recently as a nation been deeply in-
volved in trying to bring peace to southern
Africa. We have taken the initiative,
along with the British, in Zimbabwe, to
try to bring out a resolution of those very
serious problems-peace, majority rule,
the melding of the liberation forces as a
base in the future security of Zimbabwe.
And we have also taken the initiative,
along with Germany and France, Great
Britain and Canada, under the United
Nations, to bring a resolution of the prob-
lem in Namibia—again, majority rule,
free elections, the right of the blacks to
have their rights honored.
I think that is accurate to say, too, that
the recent action by the United Nations
to implement an arms embargo against
South Africa was preceded by our own
unilateral action implementing an arms
embargo long before the U.N. acted, and
we support that arms embargo completely.
U.S. INVESTMENTS AND ASSISTANCE TO
NIGERIA
Q. Can you tell us if you talked about
the oil situation and the fact that Nigeria
wants more technology from the United
States?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We discussed the
oil situation in Nigeria. We also discussed
the prospect of purchasing liquefied nat-
ural gas, which Nigeria will be ready to
produce by 1983, and the need of Nigeria
for technical assistance not only in petro-
leum, but in other aspects of economic
development.
There are now, as I said in my speech
yesterday, 15,000 Nigerian students and,
in addition, a thousand more who are
getting specific middle-level technical
training in the United States. Five hun-
dred are already there, 500 more are
651
