Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
tory, except for at its birth and now. Why
do you have Stansfield Turner, a military
man, running the CIA, with all of his ties
to the Pentagon?
THE PRESIDENT. The legislation that
originally established the CIA specifically
authorized the leadership of either mili-
tary officers or civilians. The only prohi-
bition is that both of the top two people
cannot be military officers. Stan Turner
is one of the most competent and brilliant
and forceful leaders I have ever known.
He happens, coincidentally, to have been
a classmate of mine at Annapolis. I never
knew him then personally. He was so far
above me in academics and in leadership
that I just admired him from a distance.
He was a star football player. He was the
top officer in the Naval Academy Brigade
of Midshipmen, and he was right at the
top in our class.
He was a Rhodes Scholar afterwards
and had a brilliant career in the Navy. He
was one of the first members of my class
who ever made admiral and then made
four-stripe admiral. He was the leader, a
president of a Navy War College in
Rhode Island, and completely trans-
formed a relatively dormant organization
into one that is vibrant and aggressive and
very beneficial now to the Navy, to the
Armed Forces, and to our country.
Because of those reasons, after con-
sidering many people, I thought that Stan
Turner was the best person to lead the
intelligence community. I still think so.
As you know, by far the majority of
total employees involved in the collection
and collation, dissemination of intelli-
gence are in the military. They collect in-
formation on a tactical basis that's used
every day by me, the State Department,
and by the Secretary of Defense and
others.
And so far, I am completely and to-
tally satisfied and pleased with the per-
formance of Admiral Turner. He obvi-
ously has a very difficult and sensitive job
to perform. The CIA had very low mo-
rale when he came there. Its trust by the
American people had been damaged be-
cause of the revelations of past illegal-
ities. And he's worked closely with me,
with the Intelligence Committee in the
Senate, the new committee in the House,
to evolve a structure for the entire intel-
ligence community which gives him a
much more important job than he had
in the past.
Now we have what we call a tasking
committee to decide what the major re-
sponsibilities of collection and dissem-
ination of intelligence information are.
He'll be in charge of the whole thing now.
He'll be in charge of the entire intelli-
gence community budget, both that in
the CIA and that in the military as well.
So, because of the recognition of his good
leadership qualities in the past and since
he's been head of the CIA, there's no
doubt in my mind that he is the right
man for the job.
Thank you.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Karen
Thompson. I'm from Epping High
School. And I'd like to know, do feel
you
that the design of the plants like the Sea-
brook nuclear plant sufficiently protect
the resources of the ocean?
THE PRESIDENT. Karen—is that right?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, the Fed-
eral courts and State courts have been
involved in the Seabrook plant discussion
for, I think, about 3 years. At this point,
all the Federal agencies have determined
that there is no prohibition against pro-
ceeding with the Seabrook plant.
They don't have a license yet from the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, but I
think that's a likely prospect. In the last
372
