Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 7
• and other steps which, in combina-
tion with the reserve and the acreage
diversion, will add up to $4 billion to
crop producer income.
These are carefully considered meas-
ures. They will provide decent farm in-
comes, protect consumers from precipi-
tous price rises, enhance our reliability as
a major agricultural exporter, and allow
us to meet our humanitarian food aid
commitments.
Yesterday a conference committee of
the Congress reported H.R. 6782, legisla-
tion that was hastily drafted in an atmos-
phere of emotion and confusion. Should
that legislation reach my desk, it will be
vetoed.
No one who understands our farm
economy should be deceived about the im-
pacts of this measure.
• It would increase food price infla-
tion to double digit levels.
• It would add as much as $6 billion
to the Federal budget.
• By sharply reducing production and
increasing prices, this bill could seri-
ously undermine our competitive po-
sition in world markets.
• The higher feed prices that result
would adversely affect our own live-
stock industry.
• It would require vast new layers of
bureaucracy to administer the com-
plicated and confusing schedule of
eligibility requirements and pay-
ments.
• And, this bill would direct the vast
majority of its benefits to a small
number of the very largest of our
farmers, rather than those in greatest
need of help.
This Administration is committed to a
strong and prosperous farm economy and
one that is able to compete successfully in
international markets. We now have a
policy to accomplish this objective. I call
upon you and other members of Congress
to join with me in supporting this policy
and in defeating this conference commit-
tee bill.
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Robert C. Byrd, Senate majority
leader, Herman E. Talmadge, chairman of the
Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry, Edmund S. Muskie, chairman of
the Senate Budget Committee, Thomas P.
O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and Thomas S. Foley, chairman of
the House Committee on Agriculture.
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting
a Report. April 7, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Con-
gress the thirteenth quarterly report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. This
report contains a description of the Coun-
cil's activities during the fourth quarter of
1977 in monitoring both prices and wages
in the private sector and various Federal
government activities that may lead to
higher costs and prices without creating
commensurate benefits. It discusses Coun-
cil reports, analyses, and filings before
Federal regulatory agencies.
In August 1977 I asked the Council to
undertake an in-depth study of the Na-
tion's steel industry. The study was re-
leased in October and served as an im-
portant information base in the Adminis-
tration's development of its reference
price system for imports of foreign steel.
During the fourth quarter, the Council
also issued, among other things, reports on
interest rates and inflation, the lumber in-
dustry, 1978 model year auto prices, and
a detailed analysis of the communications
workers' settlement.
701
