Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 7
We have no desire to link this negotia-
tion for a SALT agreement with other
competitive relationships nor to impose
other special conditions on the process.
In a democratic society, however, where
public opinion is an integral factor in the
shaping and implementation of foreign
policy, we do recognize that tensions,
sharp disputes, or threats to peace will
complicate the quest for a successful
agreement. This is not a matter of our
preference but a simple recognition of
fact.
The Soviet Union can choose either
confrontation or cooperation. The United
States is adequately prepared to meet
either choice.
We would prefer cooperation through
a détente that increasingly involves simi-
lar restraint for both sides; similar readi-
ness to resolve disputes by negotiations,
and not by violence; similar willingness to
compete peacefully, and not militarily.
Anything less than that is likely to under-
mine détente. And this is why I hope that
no one will underestimate the concerns
which I have expressed today.
A competition without restraint and
without shared rules will escalate into
graver tensions, and our relationship as a
whole with the Soviet Union will suffer.
I do not wish this to happen, and I do not
believe that Mr. Brezhnev desires it. And
this is why it is time for us to speak frankly
and to face the problems squarely.
By a combination of adequate Ameri-
can strength, of quiet self-restraint in the
use of it, of a refusal to believe in the in-
evitability of war, and of a patient and
persistent development of all the peace-
ful alternatives, we hope eventually to
lead international society into a more
stable, more peaceful, and a more hope-
ful future.
You and I leave here today to do our
common duty-protecting our Nation's
vital interests by peaceful means if possi-
ble, by resolute action if necessary. We go
forth sobered by these responsibilities, but
confident of our strength. We go forth
knowing that our Nation's goals-peace,
security, liberty for ourselves and for
others will determine our future and
that we together can prevail.
To attain these goals, our Nation will
require exactly those qualities of courage,
self-sacrifice, idealism, and self-discipline
which you as midshipmen have learned
here at Annapolis so well. That is why
your Nation expects so much of you, and
that is why you have so much to give.
I leave you now with my congratula-
tions and with a prayer to God that both
you and I will prove worthy of the task
that is before us and the Nation which we
have sworn to serve.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:42 a.m. in
the Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Vice Adm.
Kinnaird McKee, Superintendent of the U.S.
Naval Academy, and Acting Governor Blair
Lee III of Maryland.
The address was broadcast live on radio and
television.
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Statement by the President. June 7, 1978
Today the members of the House Com-
merce Committee will make their most
important anti-inflation decision of this
congressional session-whether to vote for
a bill which will contain skyrocketing hos-
pital costs. I urge the members of the com-
mittee to approve that bill and to work
for congressional passage this
year.
I proposed cost containment legislation
last year to restrain rising hospital costs.
These costs have been growing by about
17 percent a year-far faster than the
1057
