Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 4
the West gives you a special stake in
Federal decisions in the way they are
implemented.
Since so many critical decisions are
made in Washington, and Washington is
physically remote from the West, re-
sponsiveness of our Government depends
upon the ability to learn your needs and
to give them a full and a fair considera-
tion. A government whose capital is a
whole continent away has to be that
much more alert and responsive and
competent.
Two months ago, I submitted to the
Congress a comprehensive program of
reform for the civil service. My aim has
been to clear a path for honest, hard-
working, and industrious civil servants,
and to give them the tools to get the
job done.
I want to reward competence and
dedication. I want to clear out the in-
competence and the unresponsiveness
that cheat the American taxpayer and
give all governments a bad name. And I
want to make government more effective
by establishing clear assignments of re-
sponsibility and authority.
We need to put the work ethic back in
public service, and we need to put merit
back in the merit system.
portant assignment to reform the bureau-
cracy of our Government, the keystone
of which is to make the civil service work
better.
Mr. Cadera.
QUESTIONS
TIMBER PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, Jim Cadera, the
Oregonian. Soon you will receive recom-
mendations from your staff on implemen-
tation of your proposal to increase lumber
supplies by cutting more public and pri-
vate timber. Will you allow a variance
from the policy of even-flow in national
forest timber harvesting if it is recom-
mended? And I have a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what I am in-
terested in, first of all, is to sustain the
rate of harvest for our national forests
on a constant basis in the years ahead.
I would not want to have a crash pro-
gram to harvest too much timber at this
time. We now waste probably 6 billion
board-feet of timber every year. So, we
want to improve the efficiency of harvest-
ing the public lands timber that we have
now. We also want to make sure that
after the logs are harvested, that the out-
We are trying to do that in a way that put of them is increased in efficiency, and
honors and protects every Federal em-
ployee's rights, while giving managers in
the Federal Government the authority
that they need to do their job.
It's virtually impossible now to dis-
cipline those Federal employees who fail
to perform. This is an issue of efficiency
and good management, but it goes be-
yond that. It's also an issue of the per-
formance and the vigor, the very life of
our democratic system.
I think the American people in the
West and all across the country are going
to be
be watching how the Congress
handles this very difficult but very im-
we want to assess whether or not we need
to improve or increase the harvesting on
private and State lands.
But no matter what the recommenda-
tions are to me, I would increase produc-
tion only to the extent that we could do
this and have a constant future of sus-
tained production in our national forests.
FOREST SERVICE PERSONNEL
Q. Will you order the Office of Man-
agement and Budget to increase Forest
Service job ceilings to allow intensive
management and
management and dramatically increase
timber harvesting?
845
