Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Chief of the Support Department, for the
Marine Corps Education Center.
In 1973 Brewer became the seventh
Director of Women Marines. Since 1977
she has been Deputy Director of Informa-
tion at Marine Corps Headquarters.
Age Discrimination in
Employment Act Amendments
of 1978
Remarks on Signing H.R. 5383 Into Law.
April 6, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This is a cool spring
morning with a lot of smiles on faces in
the Rose Garden, and I think it's a time
for smiles and for congratulations to many
of you who are assembled around me for
this historic occasion.
In December of 1967, Lyndon Johnson,
who was then President, signed the age
discrimination in employment legislation.
It's been the basis for decision in our coun-
try for the last 10 years.
When I campaigned around our Na-
tion for President, it was obvious to me
that many things needed to be done to
give senior citizens an equal opportunity
in life and to correct some of the remain-
ing defects in the Federal law and admin-
istration that worked against the best in-
terests of these valuable assets to our
national scene.
The Congress has courageously, at some
political cost, acted to ensure the basic
integrity of the social security system,
which a few months ago was in serious
doubt, with bankruptcy facing two of the
reserve funds on which retired people
must depend.
We've moved to increase greatly, with
congressional support, money for the
Meals on Wheels program, which is very
good. In the legislation that was passed
concerning social security, a permission
was granted to retired people to earn
more money and still draw their social
security payments, legislation that I think
was long overdue.
We've also proposed to the Congress
legislation to control the unwarranted and
very rapid increase in hospital costs, with
the hospital cost containment bill. Many
of the beneficial interest groups are help-
ing with that legislation. It's difficult po-
litically, but I think it's a necessary pre-
cursor to the passage of comprehensive
national health insurance in the future.
I think all of you know that when we
take any action here in Washington, sen-
ior citizens are quite often acutely af-
fected. We are trying to hold down the
inflation rate, which is a particular bur-
den upon those who are retired, with a
fixed income, quite often measured in so
many dollars
per year. And they're slowly
robbed as the inflation rate goes up.
Energy legislation has been designed
specifically to protect interests of senior
citizens and those who live in the homes
with a fixed income.
Today, thanks to the excellent work of
men and women in the Congress-long
before I became President, by the way—
we are here to sign into law a new, impor-
tant revision of the age discrimination in
employment legislation.
Senator Pete Williams, Congressman
Carl Perkins, Gus Hawkins, Paul Findley,
Congressman Claude Pepper, and others
who are assembled here around me have
done notable work. This has not been easy
legislation to pass. It was quite controver-
sial. And I believe that the Congress, al-
though the vote was overwhelming in the
end, dealt very responsibly with this com-
plicated subject.
I know during the campaign Senator
Frank Church was one who repeatedly
brought up the subject of the needs of
senior citizens.
698
