Feb. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
affecting the European Community, in-
cluding the direct elections to the Euro-
pean Parliament and the applications by
Greece, Portugal, and Spain for Com-
munity membership. President Carter re-
affirmed the U.S. commitment to Euro-
pean unity and support for the European
Community, as underscored by his visit to
EC headquarters in January.
The President and the Prime Minister
reaffirmed the shared commitment of
their nations to NATO and to the defense
of Western Europe. The two expressed
satisfaction at the progress the allies have
made in implementing the measures
agreed to at last May's NATO Summit,
and they discussed the forthcoming
NATO Summit, this May in Washington.
They noted close U.S.-Danish coopera-
tion in NATO programs, including joint
production with other NATO countries
of the F-16 aircraft.
The President and Prime Minister ex-
changed views on major issues in East-
West relations. They noted the close co-
incidence in the positions of their two
governments on the CSCE review con-
ference in Belgrade, and the President
praised the role of the EC-Nine within
the broader NATO consultations. They
stressed the continuing need in the future
for similar frank and detailed reviews of
the implementation of the entire Helsinki
Final Act, including its important provi-
United States Assay Office
at New York
Nomination of Manuel A. Sanchez, Jr., To Be
Superintendent. February 21, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Manuel A. Sanchez, Jr., of
New York City, to be Superintendent of
the United States Assay Office at New
York. He would replace Nicholas Cos-
tanzo, who has resigned.
Sanchez was born December 28, 1935,
in New York. He received a B.B.A. in
1961 and an M.A. in 1969 from City Col-
lege of New York.
From 1963 to 1968, Sanchez taught
English in Brooklyn. In 1968 and 1969, he
was special assistant to the New York City
Board of Education for research and eval-
uation. In 1970 and 1971, he was assist-
ant to the Bronx Borough president.
In 1971 Sanchez was special assistant
to the New York City school chancellor
at the New York Board of Education.
From 1972 to 1974, he was director of
the Urban-Rural School Development
program in School District Seven in the
Bronx. In 1974 and 1975, he was admin-
istrator of the Citywide Umbrella Bureau
for the New York Board of Education.
Since 1975 he has been deputy community
superintendent for the Board of Educa-
tion for School District Nine in the Bronx.
sions regarding human rights and human- Comprehensive Employment and
itarian matters. The two leaders ex-
changed views on current developments
and prospects for progress in the Middle
East, southern Africa, and Cyprus. The
two leaders also agreed on the need to re-
duce arms sold by all weapons-producing
nations. The President welcomed Den-
mark's participation in the International
Fuel Cycle Evaluation.
Training Act Extension
Message to the Congress. February 22, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting today legislation to
extend an improved Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act through 1982.
This legislation is an essential comple-
ment to the balanced economic program
I presented to the Congress last month.
390
