Jan. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of the Senate information relating to in-
telligence activities that are illegal or im-
proper and corrective actions that are
taken or planned.
SECTION 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4-1. Implementation
4-101. Except as provided in section
4-105 of this section, this Order shall
supersede Executive Order 11905,
"United States Foreign Intelligence Ac-
tivities," dated February 18, 1976; Execu-
tive Order 11985, same subject, dated
May 13, 1977; and Executive Order
11994, same subject, dated June 1, 1977.
4-102. The NSC, the Secretary of De-
fense, the Attorney General and the Di-
rector of Central Intelligence shall issue
such appropriate directives and proce-
dures as are necessary to implement this
Order.
4-103. Heads of agencies within the
Intelligence Community shall issue ap-
propriate supplementary directives and
procedures consistent with this Order.
4-104. The Attorney General shall have
sole authority to issue and revise pro-
cedures required by section 2-201 for the
activities of the FBI relating to foreign
intelligence and counterintelligence.
4-105. Where intelligence activities
under this Order are to be conducted pur-
suant to procedures approved or agreed to
by the Attorney General, those activities
may be conducted under terms and condi-
tions of Executive Order 11905 and any
procedures promulgated thereunder until
such Attorney General procedures are es-
tablished. Such Attorney General proce-
dures shall be established as expeditiously
as possible after the issuance of this Order.
4-106. In some instances, the docu-
ments that implement this Order will be
classified because of the sensitivity of the
information and its relation to national
security. All instructions contained in
classified documents will be consistent
with this Order. All procedures promul-
gated pursuant to this Order will be made
available to the Congressional intelligence
committees in accordance with Section
3-402.
4-107. Unless otherwise specified, the
provisions of this Order shall apply to ac-
tivities both within and outside the
United States, and all references to law
are to applicable laws of the United
States, including the Constitution and this
Order. Nothing in this Order shall be
construed to apply to or interfere with
any authorized civil or criminal law en-
forcement responsibility of any depart-
ment or agency.
4-2. Definitions. For the purposes of this
Order, the following terms shall have
these meanings:
4-201. Communications security means
protective measures taken to deny unau-
thorized persons information derived
from telecommunications of the United
States Government related to national se-
curity and to ensure the authenticity of
such telecommunications.
4-202. Counterintelligence means in-
formation gathered and activities con-
ducted to protect against espionage and
other clandestine intelligence activities,
sabotage, international terrorist activities
or assassinations conducted for or on be-
half of foreign powers, organizations or
persons, but not including personnel, phy-
sical, document, or communications se-
curity programs.
4-203. Electronic Surveillance means
acquisition of a nonpublic communica-
tion by electronic means without the con-
sent of a person who is a party to an elec-
tronic communication or, in the case of a
nonelectronic communication, without
the consent of a person who is visibly
present at the place of communication,
but not including the use of radio direc-
tion finding equipment solely to deter-
212
