Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 17
protect and preserve the Panama Canal
for the benefit of our people and for the
benefit of the world and minimize those
differences that might otherwise cause
dissension among our people.
I look forward to this coming time, and
I believe that we can avoid any challenge
to this commitment which we have made
together.
After the interpreter repeats my next
toast, I would like for us to drink to Gen-
eral Torrijos for his patience and deter-
mination, to President Lakas for his lead-
ership which inspired the Panamanian
people to approve the terms of the treaty,
to the people of this great country for
their sense of equality and their sense of
trust and their willingness to assume a
new partnership, to the leaders and peo-
ple of Latin America, and to the prin-
ciples which bind us together-liberty,
dignity, equality, mutual respect, peace,
and permanent friendship.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 a.m. at
the Old Golf Club. President López Michelsen
of Colombia responded to the President's toast.
Visit to Panama
respect for sovereignty and a cooperative
spirit which can motivate all countries to
address the difficult problems which affect
all the world.
They believe that the Panama Canal
treaties demonstrate how all of us can
work together in a new spirit of coopera-
tion to shape the future in accordance
with our ideals and to resolve all areas
of friction in the region by peaceful
means. They are determined to build on
this example so that attention can be
focused on economic cooperation and in-
tegration in order to promote socio-
economic development and thereby
strengthen solidarity among the peoples
of the Americas.
Accordingly, they pledge to work ac-
tively and in cooperation with each other
and with other states.
To promote world peace, they pledge:
-To work to bring into effect the
Treaty of Tlatelolco banning nuclear
weapons from Latin America and
the Caribbean.
-To strengthen the peacekeeping ma-
chinery of the Organization of American
States and the United Nations.
-To work toward an effective regional
limitation of conventional armaments
Joint Statement Issued Following Multilateral based on cooperation among suppliers
Discussions. June 17, 1978
The Presidents of Colombia, Costa
Rica, the United States and Venezuela,
the Chief of Government of Panama, and
the Prime Minister of Jamaica, present
in Panama City on the occasion of the
exchange of the Instruments of Ratifica-
tion of the Panama Canal Treaties be-
tween the Republic of Panama and the
United States of America, the culmina-
tion of a process with which we have
been directly concerned, expressed the be-
lief that the treaties represent an historic
step forward in inter-American relations.
These treaties symbolize a fundamental
and purchasers to put an end to their
acquisition for offensive purposes. They
are deeply concerned about the waste of
resources to purchase arms and are there-
fore encouraged by the decision of the
countries which signed the Ayacucho
Declaration to renew their determination
to find a new agreement to limit pur-
chases of weapons. They also hope that
the Ayacucho example will be expanded
to include all Latin American countries,
and perhaps to other regions as well.
-To use their good offices and co-
operation to encourage the solution of in-
ternational disputes and to reduce areas
of tension in the hemisphere. They hope
1123
