Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
particular, and we were able to examine
the areas of particular interest-the Horn
of Africa, southern Africa, and the aspi-
rations of Africa in general.
Now, in the Horn of Africa, we, as the
Chairman of OAU's Good Offices Com-
mission, have been charged with special
responsibility of bringing about the con-
ciliation between the two parties, between
the two countries, and we have accepted
that challenge.
We have taken steps to bring about un-
derstanding and reconciliation between
Ethiopia and Somalia, and we hope that
in a matter of weeks we will be able to
achieve some measure of reconciliation,
which will at least make peace endure in
that part of our continent and which will
also make the need for further acquisition
of armaments by either side unnecessary,
and which will make these two countries,
who need economic and crucial improve-
ment of their people, concentrate on these
needs. And anybody who wants to help,
be that in Africa or from within Africa
or from outside Africa, who will channel
such help or such assistance through eco-
nomic and social areas which the people
of Somalia and the people of Ethiopia
need most.
We, of course, looked at southern Afri-
ca, and as the President has rightly said
and as I did mention in my short toast-
[laughter]-in honor of the President, we
have been able to agree on-and in fact
all along agreement on what is bad has
not been our problem. We know what is
bad, and that we have agreed upon.
We also know what is required. That
we agree upon. In terms of how to achieve
what is required expeditiously, partic-
ularly for us to get going, that I believe
that during this visit we have been able to
agree on how to get going and thereby
bring about what is desirable in Zim-
babwe and Namibia.
And also I believe we agreed that the
evils of apartheid will not be encouraged.
We agreed that apartheid is a policy that
must be eradicated. We also agree that it
will be not so easy. Therefore, the two of
us, working together in areas we can work
together and working separately in areas
where we have to work separately, we
must work to bring about the change of
policy in South Africa.
We then moved on from Africa to, po-
litically, to other parts of the world. We
considered the Middle East, and we ap-
preciated the efforts which the United
States has made and which the United
States is making. We support all the ef-
forts that have been made to bring about
just and honorable peace in the Middle
East. And we will continue to support
such effort.
We discussed the East-West, because, as
I did say, it is in the interest of the world
and definitely in the interest of the devel-
oping half of the world that there must be
peace in the world. And we believe that
there may be no enduring and lasting
peace in the world unless there is accom-
modation between the two great powers
of the world.
And we were very delighted to note
that substantive effort has gone into the
SALT talks, and the progress that has
been made is very encouraging.
Then we discussed on the economic
side what is called the bilateral relations
in this respect between Nigeria and the
U.S., between the U.S. and Africa. And
we noted with satisfaction the new effort
the U.S. Government is making in the di-
rection of providing more money for the
African Development Fund. We also note
the concern, which is also our concern,
of the United States for getting satisfac-
tory new world economic order. And the
lack of political will, which seems to have
been what has bedeviled the efforts in this
direction in the past, seems to have been
662
