Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 25
arrived a generation ahead of him. But
during those years in a small town in
Georgia, there wasn't much change. I
think the similarity in our backgrounds
has given me an insight into the real
Jimmy Carter.
I see him first as a man of conviction.
He has clearly stated the framework of
his faith within which he constructs his
life. Knowing his conviction, we can be
sure he is a man of integrity and tre-
mendous strength of character.
He is the kind of man who is going to
do what he conceives to be right, no mat-
ter what the personal sacrifice. I've seen
in the press, references to his stubborn-
ness, but I call it determination stemming
from conviction.
Out of his framework of conviction
comes a warm compassion. He has an un-
shakable belief in the worth of the in-
dividual man. This is not an objective
concept with him; it originates in a deep
and sincere love for his fellow man.
You have heard him defend human
rights, human rights in every nation. You
will hear him do so again. The idea is a
part of his innermost being.
It is his love for people that has made
it possible for him to keep the common
touch, though he holds the Nation's
highest office. His conviction and his com-
passion lead to commitment. All his life
he has been committed to excellence. We
see it in the brilliance of his intellectual
achievement. We see it in his enthusiasm
for his Presidential Scholars program. We
see it in his true devotion to great music
and art. We see it in the prodigious effort
and inspiration he has given and is giving
to improve education and government on
the State level, and now on the national
level. He is a man committed to the en-
hancement of the quality of every human
being.
Young women and young men, ladies
and gentlemen, the President of the
United States.
THE PRESIDENT. I think I'll hire Dr.
Pressly full-time to introduce me to dif-
ferent groups. You can see the advantage
in having a fellow Georgian precede you
on the program.
This is a delightful occasion for me, as
President, and a very great gratifying one.
I've looked over the list of those who have
achieved awards as Presidential Scholars
from all 50 States, the Trust Territories,
chosen on the basis of competitive merit
and nothing else. This 117-person group
has been chosen, in effect, in competition
with 2 million other young American
students. And you've been honored be-
cause of your own achievements academi-
cally and your own capabilities. For the
first time this year, we've recognized ex-
cellence in music and the arts in addition
to academic excellence itself, which I
think is good.
I've noticed that you don't come from
families with any particular economic
status. Many of you, more than half, come
from working families where your par-
ents, one or both, work in an employee
status. You've overcome, sometimes,
handicaps because of the status of your
family, socially and otherwise. And on
many occasions, it's been a matter of
great courage on your part. One of your
group, I notice, has parents who are mis-
sionaries in Zambia. One of you, I no-
ticed, 5 years ago was living in Korea and
couldn't speak any English at all.
I think there's one unique character-
istic of this group that's interesting, and
that is that 90 percent of you live in stable
homes, where your mother and father
have stayed together and have strength-
ened the ties of the marriage vows, and
your homes are not divided.
I just feel very deeply that you've
honored me by coming, and you've
honored our Nation by showing your
superb achievements already at the young
969
