Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
administered properly, which it really
wasn't the last 8 years.
ENERGY EMERGENCY AND THE COAL STRIKE
Q. You're meeting with the Governors
this afternoon, and I'm wondering what
help you're going to be able to give to
the State of Ohio, where the poor are
any particular problem that evolves in
Ohio or Indiana, Pennsylvania, the others,
can be addressed to me directly without
delay.
We have some administrative action
that can be taken. For instance, when
coal is burned in complete compliance
with environmental protection standards,
it's only at about 96 percent of the effi-
really affected by the recent weather prob- ciency than if it's burned and you emit
lems, the coal strike.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we were success-
ful last night, as you know, in getting the
coal operators and the mineworkers back
to the negotiating table. They recom-
menced their negotiations this morning
at 9:30 under the auspices of and with
the help of the Secretary of Labor
directly.
In the meantime, though, there are a
lot of things we can do to prevent people
from becoming unemployed. One is to
transfer electric power from the surround-
ing areas into the 12 States that are most
heavily impacted by cold weather and by
heavy dependence upon coal.
Another thing that we can do is to
transfer coal, either within States or across
State lines, from one source of supply,
where the inventory might be quite high,
to another one, which is in danger of hav-
ing to shut down an electric power pro-
duction plant.
Another thing that we need to do is to
make sure that any transfer of that kind
in coal is done without violence to those
who are trying to transport those supplies.
And this is primarily a responsibility of the
local and State officials. And, of course, we
have to be sure that we, at the Federal
level, give full support and coordination.
What I'll do this afternoon with the 12
Governors the attendance will be a hun-
dred percent because of the seriousness of
the problem-is to exchange ideas and
communications with them and set up a
mechanism in the White House so that
some stack gases, because you can shut
down the air scrubbers and get a little bit
more power production per ton of coal.
And during the 30-day energy emergency
that I have declared, the Environmental
Protection Agency can authorize the Gov-
ernors to let coal be burned without the
stack scrubbers that take about 4 percent
of the power away. So, there are a few
things we can do in this manner.
I think that we also have to prepare for
the eventuality that I hope we never see,
of a breakdown in the negotiations. And
if we do have to invoke the Taft-Hartley
Act and I sincerely hope we will not-
then the Federal courts, if they agree that
an injunction is necessary, would get such
an injunction, and it would require a lit-
tle more attention then to law enforce-
ment to make sure that there is no vio-
lence perpetrated against persons or prop-
erty.
ADMINISTRATION ACCESSIBILITY; BLACK
REPORTERS; D.C. HOME RULE
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned for
us to contact Bunny Mitchell. I've called
her on several occasions, and I have sev-
eral different people answering the phone.
Does she have a staff, or, if not, would
you see to it that she get a staff, inasmuch
as she is going to be handling these prob-
lems?
Number two, we have correspondents
here and I don't know whether it's by
omission or not—but we have a tend-
320
