Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
our civil rights agencies in the Federal
Government. I think you'll have a chance
this afternoon to meet with Eleanor
Holmes Norton, who will be able to an-
swer your questions more specifically
about that.
We have a long way to go in our coun-
try in meeting the legitimate needs of citi-
zens who have been deprived too long
of equal employment opportunities, equal
educational opportunities, and equal op-
portunities, once they establish, through
their own initiative, a business, to be
treated fairly by their own government.
But we are making progress, and it's grati-
fying to me to be able to make this brief
report to you.
And I hope that during the next
months, as these programs become effec-
tive, Congress authorizes the appropria-
tion of money—and I think we have an
excellent chance to be successful-that
you will help us by reporting to Bunny
Mitchell or someone else in the White
House or me directly if you see the need,
any absence of completing the goals that
I've described to you.
We have a good attitude in the Con-
gress. The Congressional Black Caucus is
very vocal, very well organized, very force-
ful. They help to inspire me to do a better
job, and I think they will tell you that
we have a good working relationship here.
I'll be glad to answer any questions that
you might have about these or other mat-
ters for a few minutes. I've got to go at
1:30. I've got to meet with Foreign Min-
ister Dayan, and I'd like to save enough
time to get a photograph with you all, if
you have no objection.
QUESTIONS
MINORITY PROGRAMS
Q. One quick question I have, Mr.
President, is that in view of some of the
programs you wish to put into effect, once
it's seen that they are moving ahead or
the timetable being so important, is it
possible perhaps by Executive order to get
some things rolling sooner?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, some of the things
I've described to you are being done by
Executive order. For instance, the increase
in deposits in black banks—that was done
by orders from me to my Cabinet mem-
bers.
The doubling of purchases from black-
owned suppliers of equipment and sup-
plies was done by Executive order. We've
had 10 percent built into the law as a
target for black-owned contractors in
public works projects for construction,
ground preparation. The last report I got
was we were exceeding that; we were at
about 14 percent level. That's at Com-
merce Department.
And of course, the reorganization of
the civil rights agencies in the Federal
Government is done under the reorga-
nization bill. I don't have to get a law
passed. What I do is submit the reorga-
nization plan to the Congress, and if they
don't veto it, it goes into effect. It's kind
of a combination Executive order, in
other words.
Now, the tripling of money set aside for
minority youth employment is a budget
item, and that specific tripling of the
money allotted for youth employment does
have to be approved by the Congress.
Q. I was concerned about SBA [Small
Business Administration] or OMBE [Of-
fice of Minority Business Enterprise].
THE PRESIDENT. The SBA, particu-
larly Title 8-A program, is being done
now by Vernon Weaver, who's the Ad-
ministrator of that Agency. And I don't
believe that we will be delayed because of
congressional action. I think we can pro-
ceed with a greater number of reforms
there to make sure that the present law is
319
