Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
One of the foreign policy matters that
also applies domestically is in the area of
human rights. I felt when I came into
office that there was a sense of discour-
agement, an alienation and distrust
among people in our country toward gov-
ernment because of the Vietnam war and
because of Watergate and because of CIA
revelations. And I felt then and feel now
that there ought to be some clean, decent,
clear expression by me as President, sup-
ported by you, of what our country stands
for and what it has meant in the world
the last 200 years.
I hope that you can help me discern
those kinds of things, like peace and fair-
ness and basic decency and human rights
and honesty, that can be legitimate
be legitimate
sources of pride for us.
cause of the outspoken nature of young
people your age on the civil rights ques-
tion in our country, the work of Martin
Luther King and others was made pos-
sible for success. And because of the deep
concern about young people your age,
maybe inspired by singers like Bob Dylan
and others, there was a deploring of an
unnecessary and ill-advised war and a re-
commitment to preserving the quality of
our environment. And the same oppor-
tunities exist for you as existed for pre-
vious college generations.
I thank you for coming and letting me
be part of your session. I really admire
what you all stand for and what you can
do, and ask you to join with me in a
partnership to make our great country
even greater.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:30 a.m. in
Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Build-
ing.
The transcript of the interview was released
on March 4.
I would say that political officeholders
are no better or worse than any of you
or those who elect us. We struggle some-
times with too much appreciation or lack
of appreciation or understanding with
extremely complicated issues. And when
something gets on my desk in the Oval
Office or arrives in the Congress for a
decision, it's a matter that hasn't been re-
solved in spite of efforts by an individual Wesley Bolin
American or family or at a city hall or
county courthouse or a State capitol
building. Almost inevitably, when a mat-
ter gets here to Washington, it is difficult,
it is controversial, and there are sharp de-
bates about how a resolution of an issue
has to be reached.
But you are part of the process. And
your voices can be very strong and very
influential. And you have an ability and
a freedom, which I've already described,
to make your voice extraordinary in its
effect.
I don't believe there's a dormancy
among college-age students that has been
deplored by some news analysts. I think
the commitment, which can be extremely
beneficial, is still there. And I think be-
Statement on the Death of the Governor of
Arizona. March 4, 1978
Rosalynn and I extend our sincere
sympathy to Marion Bolin and the
peo-
ple of Arizona on the death of Governor
Wesley Bolin.
Wesley Bolin was part of the public
scene in Arizona longer than almost any-
one else in the State's history. He was
elected constable of the West Phoenix
Precinct in 1938 and had held statewide
office for the last 30 years. In that time
his State changed dramatically, but he
was unchanged in his integrity, his warm
spirits, and his dedication to duty and to
the values he believed in.
468
