Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 13
Your leadership of the Federal Reserve
over the past eight years occurred at a
time when our nation, and others around
the world, were forced to grapple with
economic problems of extraordinary com-
plexity. Our country has been fortunate to
have a person of your experience and
knowledge at the helm of the central bank
during this difficult period.
Because of your impeccable honesty,
your wisdom, and your frank and coura-
geous presentation of your professional
opinions, citizens in every walk of life have
come to know and respect you during your
long period of public service. In expressing
my own profound thanks to you, I am con-
veying the sentiments of a grateful nation.
I will miss very much the frequent per-
sonal contact that we have had over the
past year, and I trust that in the future
your services will still be available to me
and to the nation.
Sincerely yours,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of
the Board of Governors, Federal Reserve Sys-
tem, Washington, D.C. 20551]
Dear Mr. President:
January 12, 1978
I have given careful thought to the
question of continuing to serve as a mem-
ber of the Federal Reserve Board and have
decided not to do so. This decision is based
on my conviction that Mr. Miller deserves
the fullest opportunity to establish his
leadership at the helm of our Nation's
central bank. The continued presence of
a former Chairman could, in my judg-
ment, be a complicating distraction.
I am mindful, of course, of the desir-
ability of easing the transition at the Board
and also of affording you time to name a
new Board Member. With these and also
personal considerations in mind, I propose
March 31, 1978-or any earlier conven-
ient time as the effective date of resig-
nation.
I take leave of my present office with
deep gratitude for the opportunity I have
had to serve under you and five of your
predecessors. America is a blessed country
and it has been good to its people.
Adopted citizens, such as myself, perhaps
know this even more keenly than do the
native born. That is why their love of this
land of freedom and opportunity is so
often all-consuming. I need hardly add
that you can count on me if I can ever be
of significant help in your efforts on our
country's behalf.
With every good wish to you,
Sincerely yours,
ARTHUR F. BURNS
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and an-
nouncements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
January 9
The President met at the White House
with:
--Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-the Cabinet;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown,
Attorney General Griffin B. Bell,
Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of
Central Intelligence, Dr. Brzezinski,
and Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to
65
