Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 30
Almost every pressure that I feel on me
as President that leads to later inflation
comes from a very fine group of people—
those who want to build weapons, those
who want to build highways, farmers,
educators, veterans, and others—all have
demands upon the Federal Government
that are legitimate. But when you add
them all together, it creates an almost
impossible financial circumstance, and
the budget deficits increase because very
fine people press for special attention to
their problem, which is very costly.
The last thing I'd like to say to you is
that I consider you to be partners of mine,
not only as American citizens—which is
part of our democratic form of govern-
ment-but as recognized leaders already
at a very young age. And I hope you won't
just rest on your laurels. You not only
have shown leadership capabilities—you
wouldn't be elected-you've not only
shown the ability to fight a difficult
battle-because every one of you won
election as governor in spite of over-
whelming odds, apparently at the begin-
ning-but you've shown some political
prowess and some knowledge of our
country.
I think that you ought to use this early
entry into politics in a way that will ben-
efit our whole country and that you will
continue to show your interest in your
actions through your college years and
that you will later come into government
service itself, if that's part of your con-
tinuing inclination.
I'm grateful to you, honored to have
you here. I think this is the most gover-
nors I've ever had at once. [Laughter]
If you don't mind, after we get through,
if you would really expedite it and not
pause for conversations, I'd like to stand
down in front and let you come by and
get an individual photograph with each
one of you rather than just a group
photograph.
TERRY HOFFMAN. Mr. President, on
behalf of the 17th National YMCA
Youth Governors Conference, we'd like
to show you our appreciation for taking
time out of your busy schedule to come
talk to us this morning.
First, I'd like to offer you this Youth
Governors Honor Award given to each
of our outstanding speakers, a member-
ship in the National Society of YMCA
Youth Governors, and this plaque which
is a charter given to the National Capital
YMCA, the only YMCA ever to receive
a charter from Congress, and it is signed
by Abe Lincoln.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much
for that.
one
Thank you, Terry. It's a pleasure for
me to receive this award from a Youth
Governor, particularly the one from
Georgia-[laughter]—particularly
from very close to my home, and partic-
ularly from the home of Georgia's full-
time Governor, George Busbee. I appre-
ciate this and will treasure it.
And now, if you would, just kind of in
a hurry, come by and let me get a photo-
graph of each one of you. We have a
White House photographer.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
Federal Maritime Commission
Nomination of Thomas F. Moakley To Be
a Commissioner. June 30, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Thomas F. Moakley for
reappointment as a Commissioner of the
Federal Maritime Commission for
5-year term.
Moakley, 56, of Whitman, Mass., was
appointed to the Commission last Sep-
tember. At the time of his appointment
he was port director of the Port of Boston.
1211
