Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that we have common interests, common
principles, and common ideals."
as well as English, the Bible tells us that to
whom much is given, much will be re-
quired. Our two nations have been greatly
blessed by God, and we have much to give
in return.
Thank you very much.
Those words still apply today, and
they are the overriding concepts which
bind our nations together permanently
and on which we base our realization and
our hope and our expectation for future
friendship, stability, and mutual strength- Chamber of Deputies of the Congress. In his
ening in the years to come.
In the intervening years, Brazil has
come into an even fuller realization of
your rightful place in the world, though
it has not yet reached the limits of your
enormous potential. And after all those
years, we can still call on one another as
friends, for that bond recalls the sacri-
fices that we have made together in a
common struggle, with the loss of Bra-
zilian and American lives, and it implies
the right to disagree on occasion, even
vigorously, without bitterness or mistrust.
As I said when I met your President
yesterday, the world needs, the world
expects, and the world will benefit from
your creativity, your energy, and your suc-
cess. Many of the problems that we share
as members of a human family will never
be solved unless the ablest among us de-
vote their best to efforts to that cause.
Economic development with a fairer dis-
tribution of the world's riches, a trading
system that is open and equitable, cooper-
ative solutions to our common energy
problems, peaceful use of atomic power
without the risk of proliferation, reducing
the excessive trade in weapons, and en-
couraging consultations and negotiations
about even the most troubling issues, ad-
vancing the cause of human liberty, dem-
ocratic government, and the rule of law-
these are efforts in which the United
States needs your friendship, your part-
nership, and the world needs your help
and your leadership. And I'm sure we
will not be disappointed.
Since my friend has quoted the Bible, I
would like to do the same. In Portuguese,
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. in the
remarks, he referred to Enrico Rezende, ma-
jority leader of the Senate, and Federal Dep-
uty Erasmo Martins Pedro.
Prior to his remarks, the President met at
the Supremo Federal Tribunal with Minister
Carlos Thompson Flores, president of the Su-
premo Federal Tribunal, and upon his arrival
at the Congress, the President met in the Salon
Nobre with senior members of the Senate and
Chamber of Deputies.
Following his remarks to the Congress, the
President proceeded to the Palacio do Planalto
for meetings with President Geisel.
Brasília, Brazil
Joint Communique Issued Following Meetings
Between President Carter and President
Geisel. March 30, 1978
The President of the United States and
Mrs. Jimmy Carter visited Brazil
March 29-31, 1978, as part of a series of
visits to major nations. Accompanying
President Carter were Secretary of State
Cyrus Vance, Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs Dr. Zbig-
niew Brzezinski, Assistant Secretary of
State for Inter-American Affairs Terence
A. Todman, Director of Policy Planning
for the Department of State W. Anthony
Lake and Robert Pastor of the NSC Staff.
The President of the Federative Re-
public of Brazil and Mrs. Ernesto Geisel
received the President of the United
States and Mrs. Carter as official guests of
the Brazilian Government. President
Geisel welcomed the visit as a clear ex-
pression of the importance of the relation-
636
