Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 28
-The Title I program will be changed
to require that economically disadvan-
taged children in private schools receive
comparable funds to those received by
public school students, with similar
needs.
-Where a school district fails to pro-
vide appropriate Federal educational
benefits under any program to eligible
private school children, authority will be
used to by-pass the district and use an-
other agency to provide constitutionally
permissible services.
Private school children must receive
fair treatment under Federal education
programs. However I cannot support a
tax credit for private elementary and sec-
ondary school tuition. First, there is grave
doubt that such a tax credit program can
meet Constitutional requirements con-
cerning separation of church and State.
Second, the Federal government provides
funding primarily to help meet the needs
of public school children who are disad-
vantaged, or handicapped, or bilingual,
or who have some other form of special
need. We do not provide general support
for public schools and it would be unfair
to extend such support, through a gen-
eral tax credit, to private schools.
I will continue to do all I can, within
Constitutional limits, to provide for full
and equitable participation of private
schools and their students in Federal edu-
cation efforts.
WOMEN'S EDUCATIONAL EQUITY ACT
In order to assist in the elimination of
sexual discrimination in education I pro-
pose to make the Women's Educational
Equity Act an independent authority
and expand its role in assisting local
school districts.
CONCLUSION
The proposals I have outlined today-
to strengthen our basic education laws,
substantially increase
increase the education
budget and undertake major organiza-
tional reform aimed at creating a Cab-
inet-level Department of Education-set
forth a far-reaching agenda for educa-
tion. These proposals are important not
only for what they offer our children
today, but for what they offer to all of us
in the future: a country that is stronger,
more united and better equipped to meet
the challenges that lie before us.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 28, 1978.
United States-Italy Agreement
on Social Security
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreement. February 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 233 (e) (1)
of the Social Security Act as amended
by the Social Security Amendments of
1977 (P.L. 95-216; 42 U.S.C. 1305
note), I transmit herewith the Agreement
between the United States of America
and the Italian Republic on the Matter
of Social Security, signed May 23, 1973,
the Administrative Protocol for the
Agreement, signed November 22, 1977
(together with a procés-verbal setting
forth certain interpretative understand-
ings) and an exchange of notes of Janu-
ary 17-20, 1978 clarifying the interpre-
tation of Article 1, paragraph K, of the
Agreement.
The Agreement fulfills a long-standing
commitment made by the two Govern-
ments in the 1951 Supplementary Agree-
ment to their 1948 Treaty of Friendship,
Commerce, and Navigation. This total-
ization agreement would be the first such
agreement undertaken by the United
429
