Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 2
India is now a major industrial power.
Your economy ranks among the 10 larg-
est in the whole world. You are vitrually
self-assured and self-sufficient in consum-
er goods and in a wide variety of other
products, such as iron and steel.
There have been notable increases in
production in nearly every important sec-
tor of your economy-increases which re-
flect an economy of great technological
sophistication. This kind of growth is
doubly important to try to reduce trade
barriers and to promote both bilateral
trade and mutual responsibility for the
whole world's trading system.
But most important are the advances
in human welfare that have touched the
lives of ordinary Indians. Life expectancy
has increased by 20 years since your in-
dependence. The threat of major epi-
demics has receded. The literacy rate in
your country has doubled. While only a
third of Indian children went to school in
the years just after independence; nearly
90 percent of primary-age Indian children
now receive schooling. Nine times as
many students go to universities as they
did before.
I mention these gains that we tend to
overlook in our preoccupation with the
problems that quite properly face and en-
gage our attention.
India's difficulties, which we often ex-
perience ourselves and which are typical
of the problems faced in the developing
world, remind us of the task which lie
ahead.
But India's successes are just as im-
portant, because they decisively refute
the theory that in order to achieve eco-
nomic and social progress, a developing
country must accept an authoritarian or
a totalitarian government, with all the
damage to the health of the human spirit
which comes with it.
We are eager to join with you in main-
taining and improving our valuable and
mature partnership of political and eco-
nomic cooperation.
It's a sobering fact, for instance, that in
a nation of so many hundreds of millions
of people, only a few American business
leaders are now involved, on a daily basis,
in the economic and commercial life of
your country.
We need to identify more areas where
we can work together for mutual benefit
and, indeed, for the benefit of the whole
world.
In the area of development, I am deep-
ly impressed with the creative direction
that the Government of India has taken
in the new economic statement. You have
committed your nation unequivocally to
rural improvement and the creation of
rural employment. This policy now faces
a test of implementation and, especially,
the test of bringing its benefits to the very
poorest areas of your rural population.
The seriousness and the determination,
however, of your commitment is a cause
for optimism.
We want to learn from you and to work
with you however we can.
In agriculture, there are also exciting
new areas of technology on which we
can work together. After a decade of im-
porting grain, India now stands with a
surplus of nearly 20 million tons. This is a
tribute to the growing productivity of
your agriculture and the competence, also,
of your administrative services.
We applaud the grain reserve program
that you've begun, and we would wel-
come the opportunity to share with you
our resources and our experience in deal-
ing with storage problems that surpluses
bring with them.
Our countries must be in the forefront
of the effort to bring into existence the
international food reserve that would
mitigate the fear of famine in the rest of
the world. At the same time, we must rec-
ognize that today's surpluses are likely to
7
