May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
dedicated, humane, and compassionate
man, a natural leader, a good adminis-
trator, loyal, unselfish, good Democrat,
great political figure, Mayor Richard
Daley.
I wish he could be here tonight. But as
I went to visit the groups assembled here
2 years later, my escort was a quiet man,
a modest man, a compassionate, dedicated
man, good administrator, loyal, good
Democrat, good political leader, Mike
Bilandic.
He's given me some news tonight that
I am going to use and share with Danny
Rostenkowski and with Adlai Stevenson.
He said when the board of aldermen meet
in Chicago, he can predict that the vote's
going to be 47 to 3. [Laughter] And that's
the kind of organization, Danny, that I'm
counting on in the House. But Democrats
are independents. We're individuals. We
share problems, we share successes, we're
not afraid to deal with difficult issues. And
I think this is the essence of our strength.
As a candidate in 1976, I drew strength
from the support of Richard Daley and
many of you, and I know that the candi-
dates that you have supported and sent to
Springfield and to Washington cannot be
excelled anywhere in America. It was Jake
Garvey and the Cook County Democrats
who put together the great ticket of Paul
Douglass, Adlai Stevenson in 1948, and
who sent Tom Dewey back to New York
and sent Harry Truman to the White
House again.
And it was Dick Daley and the Cook
County Democrats again who helped our
Nation and Illinois by working to send an-
other Adlai Stevenson to Washington in
1970.
This year, it'll be George Dunne and
Jack Touhy, Mike Bilandic and the rest
of the Cook County Democrats and State
Democrats who will send Alex Seith to
Washington and Mike Bakalis to the Gov-
ernor's mansion in Springfield. You've
done it before and I know you can do it
again.
Now, I know that the Republicans can
outspend us. They just about always have
more money to spend in an election year
than Democrats, but they can't outwork
us. They can't outwork the Democrats in
the Southside, in Bridgeport, Evanston,
Cicero, Oak Park, or any of the other
towns and neighborhoods around Cook
County. And the Republican Party, al-
though they have had some victories, of
course, has never been able to earn the
deep and penetrating and abiding loyal-
ties of the people of this country.
The men and women who remember
the great Presidents of this century,
Democrats-Woodrow Wilson, Franklin
Roosevelt, Harry Truman, John Ken-
nedy, Lyndon Johnson-they remember
the promises the Democrats made and the
promises that we have worked to keep,
men and women in your tradition have
gone to the polls again and again to send
Democratic candidates to Washington
and to Springfield.
Because of loyal Democrats committed
to principles and ideals that bind us to-
gether, we've been the majority party in
the United States for nearly 50 years.
We've set the political agenda for our Na-
tion. We've provided the leadership, the
reforms, the great social and economic
advances. We have brought prosperity
and jobs. We've provided the new ideas,
the new faces, the progressive changes,
and now we are leading the way on the
new challenge of our own era, making our
government lean and efficient, so that it
can do the job that the people want it to
do.
We have brought into our political sys-
tem people who were formerly excluded,
working families, women, young people,
immigrants, minorities, and we've pro-
vided dignity and hope for all of them.
Franklin Roosevelt said it well in 1932,
984
