Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
United States would promise to give ad-
vanced aircraft, such as the F-16, at an
unspecified time and number, to Israel.
Now, why is that promise of the
United States now made part of a pack-
age deal? In other words, why is it tied
to approval for aircraft to other coun-
tries, Egypt and Saudi Arabia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are honor-
ing completely the commitments made to
Israel in the fall of 1975 concerning an
adherence on our part to the adequate
defense capabilities of Israel, including
advanced aircraft like the F-15 and the
F-16.
Some orders of this kind have already
been placed, accepted, and deliveries are
in prospect. Some planes have already
been delivered. And the proposal that
I've made to Congress on the arms sales
package is compatible with that commit-
ment.
In the fall of 1975, commitments were
also made to the Saudi Arabians, to pro-
vide them with advanced aircraft, to re-
place their present Lightning planes
which are becoming obsolete.
Later, in the Ford administration in
1976, in the fall, a commitment was made
to them to send Defense Department offi-
cials to Saudi Arabia, to give them some
assessment of the characteristics of the
F-15's and F-16's, with a commitment
then made that they would have their
choice between the 16's and the 15's.
When Crown Prince Fahd came to our
country last spring, I repeated this com-
mitment, that had been made by my own
predecessors in the White House, and so
the sale of F-15's to Saudi Arabia is con-
sistent with the commitment also made in
the fall of 1975 and repeatedly recon-
firmed.
The sale of the F-5E's-a much less
capable airplane, by the way to the
Egyptians is, I think, a very legitimate
proposal, because Egyptians in effect have
severed their supply of weapons that used
to come from the Soviet Union and have
cast their lot with us, which is a very
favorable development in the Middle
East, one of the most profound develop-
ments of all.
I have no apology at all to make for
this proposal. It maintains the military
balance that exists in the Middle East. I
can say without any doubt that the supe-
rior capabilities of the Israeli Air Force,
compared to their neighbors, is main-
tained, and at the same time, it reconfirms
our own relationship with the moderate
Arab leaders and nations for the future to
ensure that peace can be and will be
maintained in the Middle East.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI RELATIONS
Q. Mr. Carter, on the same subject,
we've seen reports in recent days from
the Middle East, from both Cairo and
Jerusalem, that in effect President Sadat's
initiative has come to an end, that it has
come aground. We also see reports from
Jerusalem that ministers in the Israeli
Government have decided that there is no
deal to be made at this time. Could you
give us your assessment of where this
stands and where you think it's going to
go?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as is the case in
the White House and in the Congress, and
in the United States, there is a difference
in Israel, a very heated debate in prospect
and already in progress about what should
be done to bring about peace in the
Middle East. There are, obviously, differ-
ences also between nations, between Egypt
and Israel, between Israel and their other
neighbors.
So, I would say that in comparison to
the situation a year ago, the prospects for
comprehensive peace in the Middle East
are quite good. We would hope that there
could be an immediate resolution of all
the differences. That's not immediately
in prospect.
492
