Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
with him that he shares your concern
about the Horn and the Soviets and Cu-
bans there?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think that
there's a difference in emphasis. Obvi-
ously, we don't see everything from the
same perspective. He has been deeply con-
cerned, as he expressed to me in months
past, that the international borders in
Africa be observed rigidly because, as is
the case all over the continent, these were
arbitrarily drawn by European colonial
powers in decades gone by, and for of
those international borders to be changed
sets a precedent that concerns all the na-
tional leaders in Africa.
any
So, the invasion of the Ogaden area was
of deep concern to him because of that
reason. We, of course, joined in with Oba-
sanjo, the frontline presidents, and all
others, to urge the Somalis to withdraw.
I think that was his main preoccupation.
Our main concern there is the perma-
nence of any Cuban or Soviet military
forces in Ethiopia. He shares their con-
cern. But I think the emphasis has been
different.
We have a difference in approach to
South Africa. I think he would be much
more aggressive in total embargo against
South Africa. We feel that the interest of
southern Africa is best served by the policy
that we are now pursuing.
Q. Did he understand the difficulty of
your position there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I say, I don't
think we have any disagreement. I under-
Q. What did you sense his feelings are
on a price increase in OPEC?
THE PRESIDENT. It's obvious that both
Nigeria and Venezuela prefer a price in-
crease.
PRESS SECRETARY POWELL. We've only
got about an hour to get this wrapped up.
It is about 1 hour.
Q. I thought in your speech that you
were hinting on stronger action on South
Africa if they continued the policy of
apartheid.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are ap-
proaching a time of testing of the South
African Government's position on Nam-
ibia. We don't have a final and definitive
answer from them on the United Nations
proposal, which we and the other four
Western powers on the Security Council
are putting forward.
I think if South Africa should reject a
reasonable proposal and move unilater-
ally on Namibia, it would be a serious in-
dication of their unwillingness to comply
with the legal position of the United Na-
tions and the rest of the world. This
would be one thing that can precipitate
a more serious difference between us and
South Africa.
MR. POWELL. Thank you all.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The briefing began shortly after Air
Force One had departed Murtala Muhammed
Airport in Lagos.
stand his position; he understands mine. Monrovia, Liberia
We understand that we looked at it from
a different perspective, but we honor each
other's differences. There's no dispute be-
tween us.
He realizes that we had an arms em-
bargo against South Africa before the
United Nations acted to impose a world-
wide embargo on arms shipments to South
Africa.
Remarks of President Carter and President
William R. Tolbert, Jr., at the Welcoming
Ceremony. April 3, 1978
PRESIDENT TOLBERT. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, Amy, distinguished ladies and
gentlemen, friends:
Just over 30 years ago, Mr. President,
on January 27, 1943, another American
671
