Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
We must contain and reduce the rate
of inflation as we move toward a more
fully employed economy. Inflation ex-
tracts a heavy toll from all Americans,
and particularly from the poor and those
on fixed incomes. Reducing inflation
would benefit us all. A more stable price
environment would make it easier for
business firms and consumers to plan for
the future. Thus, reduced inflation would
substantially enhance our chances to
maintain a strong economic expansion
and return to a high-employment econ-
omy. In the years ahead we must seek to
unwind the inflation we have inherited
from the past and take the steps neces-
sary to prevent new inflationary pressures
as we approach high employment.
We must act in ways that contribute to
the health of the world economy. As the
strongest economy in the world, the
United States has unique responsibilities
to improve the international economic
climate. The well-being of the United
States depends on the condition of other
nations around the world. Their economic
destiny is, in turn, shaped by ours. The
United States can retain its stature in the
world only by pursuing policies that meas-
ure up to its role as a leader in interna-
tional economic affairs.
These four economic objectives are
sufficiently ambitious to constitute a seri-
ous challenge, but sufficiently realistic to
be within our reach. A well-designed pro-
gram will permit us to achieve them. The
principal elements of my economic
strategy are:
Adopting promptly an effective na-
tional energy program;
• Managing Federal budget expendi-
tures carefully and prudently, so
that we can meet national needs
while gradually reducing the share
of our national output devoted to
Federal spending;
Using tax reductions to ensure steady
growth of the private economy and
reforming the tax system to make it
fairer, simpler, and more progressive;
• Working to reduce the Federal deficit
and balance the budget as rapidly as
the developing strength of the econ-
omy allows;
Improving existing programs and de-
veloping new ones to attack the prob-
lem of structural unemployment
among the disadvantaged;
Promoting greater business capital
formation in order to enhance pro-
ductivity gains, increase standards of
living, and reduce the chances that
capacity shortages would inhibit ex-
pansion later on;
• Adopting more effective programs to
reduce the current rate of inflation
and prevent a reacceleration of in-
flation as we approach high employ-
ment; and
• Pursuing international
economic
policies that promote economic re-
covery throughout the world, en-
courage an expansion of world trade,
and maintain a strong international
monetary system.
PROMPT ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL
ENERGY PLAN
It has now been over four years since
our economy was buffeted by the oil
embargo and its aftermath of sharply in-
creased oil prices. The massive oil price
increase in 1973-74 contributed to the
double-digit inflation of 1974 and to the
worst recession in 40 years. It is a pri-
mary factor today behind the large deficit
in our international balance of payments.
Yet the United States still has not enacted
a comprehensive and effective energy
policy.
Our dependence on imported oil is
sapping the strength of the American
131
