Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
And we've also let Ethiopia know that
we would consider it a very serious breach
of peace, endangering even worldwide
peace, if they should cross the Somali bor-
der in their counterattack.
I have hopes that this will not be the
case, and we hope also that the OAU,
the Organization of African Unity, will
play a more forceful role in bringing
Ethiopia and Somalia together.
The Ethiopians said they will not ne-
gotiate until Somalia is off their territory
and the Somalis are willing to negotiate
on what to do about the Ogaden area.
But we do not intend to send weapons to
Somalia or Ethiopia.
Well, let me thank you. We covered a
lot of points.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on February 17.
United States Mint at Denver
Nomination of Evelyn T. Davidson To Be
Superintendent. February 17, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Evelyn T. Davidson, of
Denver, Colo., to be Superintendent of
the U.S. Mint in Denver. She would re-
place Betty Higby, who has resigned.
Davidson was born May 16, 1921, in
Hearne, Tex. From 1964 to 1967, she was
chief clerk and administrative officer of
the Colorado House of Representatives.
From 1967 to 1971, she was adminis-
trative assistant to Mark Hogan, Lieu-
tenant Governor of Colorado. She was
owner and operator of a legislative re-
porting service which analyzed legisla-
tion in the Colorado General Assembly
from 1971 to 1974.
From 1974 to 1977, Davidson was chief
clerk and administrative officer of the
Colorado House of Representatives. She
is currently a staff assistant to Ruben Val-
dez, minority leader in the Colorado
House of Representatives.
Interstate Commission on the
Potomac River Basin
Appointment of Alvin R. Morris as a
Member. February 17, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Alvin R. Morris, of Berwyn,
Pa., as a member of the Interstate Com-
mission on the Potomac River Basin. He
replaces Daniel Snyder III, who has
resigned.
Morris was born July 17, 1935. He re-
ceived a B.A. from Lafayette College in
1957, and an M.S. in microbiology
(1959) and Ph. D. in biology (1963)
from Lehigh University.
Morris began work with the Federal
Water Pollution Control Program in 1963
as a biologist, and then served as tech-
nical director of the Delaware Estuary
Comprehensive Study and director of the
planning branch of Edison Water Quality
Management Laboratory. In 1970 he be-
came Assistant Regional Administrator
for Management for Region II of the
Environmental Protection Agency, and in
1973 he became Deputy Regional Ad-
ministrator of the Region III office of
EPA in Philadelphia.
National Health Resources
Advisory Committee
Appointment of Francis A. L'Esperance, Jr.,
as a Member. February 17, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Francis A. L'Esperance, Jr.,
of Englewood, N.J., as a member of the
325
