Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 13
that the world becomes one family. That
has been what we have been always
advised and instructed.
We have always said the whole world
is a family and so they would be able to
overcome, as I said in the United Nations
Assembly. And we have tried to live up
to that, and with your help, we hope to
do well.
This is a young country, but it has also
very deep spiritual foundations. The
country was founded by pilgrim fathers
who protested against oppression, reli-
gious persecution and fanaticism, and
came here and founded this country. It
is that which gives the real urge for
humane values to the people of this great
country.
I think the world has yet to cite any
example of a country which has helped
very nearly the whole world in many
ways and also has set that example before
others. And it is that which inspires us.
It is therefore that I admire this country,
and more particularly, I have struck a
common chord with you, Mr. President,
and I find that we believe in the same
values.
There can therefore be no misunder-
standing between us. There can be some
difference of opinion in some things. If
we did not do that, we would cease to be
intelligent. Therefore, that is also a proof
of human values in my mind. But even if
there are differences, we understand each
other very fully and try to find out a way
which is common, so that we are able to
succeed in our common mission of achiev-
ing peace in this country and banishing
war so that the world becomes one family
of human beings.
We have to achieve it. There are many
prophets of the dark whose prophecy is
doom for this world. Personally, I think
the world is going up and becoming
better. But it is always passing through
difficulties and sufferings that we can be-
come better. Without suffering, there is
no test of goodness, and without suffering,
there is no acquisition of truth as we
have been taught by our sages. And it is
that also which attracts me here, because
I find there is a regard for truth which I
see everywhere I move.
Of course the world is not perhaps full
of truthful people, and yet they all ad-
mire truth and they want truth. There is
a great hope for the world.
And it is a matter of great pleasure
and happiness for me that you very gra-
ciously invited me here to this great land
and gave this opportunity of meeting var-
ious friends, discussing with them com-
mon problems and getting more and more
friendliness. And for that, I am deeply
grateful to you.
I only hope that you will visit us again
and see the countryside and spend not
less than 10 days. I don't know whether
it is possible for such a busy President
who has problems that are far more an-
noying than I have. And yet, may I say
that we will see that you will forget those
problems, and we might also be helpful
in seeing that your problems are solved
so that we are helped by you in solving
other problems. It is more selfishness for
which I am selling you.
I have passed the last few days very
happily, and going from one end to the
other, San Francisco, and coming back
from there, I have met many Indians,
the largest of them, largest numbers per-
haps on record, in this country so far.
That was also due to your kindness, be-
cause you are painting such a picture
about me that they are all attracted. And
for that, I am deeply grateful to you and
thank you very much.
May I request, friends, to join me in
drinking to the health of the President,
his family, and eternal friendship between
our two countries and world peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:36 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Following the dinner, the President and the
Prime Minister visited the Lincoln Memorial.
1089
