Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 9
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am. This was
a campaign statement and commitment
of mine that I thought natural gas should
be deregulated. In my speech to the Con-
gress last April 20, I repeated this hope,
and I think that a long, phased-in dereg-
ulation process without any shocks to our
national economy would be acceptable.
DAVID MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, it now appears that
there were some significant deletions in
the Justice Department affidavits on the
Marston case, bearing upon his compe-
tence and upon the nature of politics in
Pennsylvania. And this has led to new
charges of a coverup by some people high
up in the Justice Department, or at the
very least, some incompetence on the part
of Justice Department people.
What is your assessment of how your
Justice Department has handled this? If
I may ask my followup before I sit down,
are you irritated by the delay in naming
Marston's successor?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the answer to
your last question is no. You know, be-
cause of the high degree of attention
focused on this particular appointment,
the almost natural delay has been a mat-
ter of some interest. But it takes a long
time to screen many applicants to make
sure that we satisfy the desires of the
judges in that area, of the responsible
lawyers in that area, and that we satisfy
ourselves that there's an adequate FBI
check of their background, that their
financial status is good, that there's
nothing that can be brought up later on
that would be embarrassing to the ap-
pointee when a thorough discussion or
investigation is made. It's a time-consum-
ing process.
I'm not dissatisfied. We are moving as
rapidly as we can on that. I didn't know
anything about the information presented
to the congressional committees. I think
in retrospect it would have been better to
go ahead and include the statement of the
FBI agent.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY; INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us why
you think the dollar is declining abroad?
What are you going to do about it, and
do you think it's time for more tougher
measures to curb inflation here in the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a matter
with international implications. I had a
long talk this morning on the phone with
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. This was
one of the subjects that we did discuss.
And German and American officials will
be meeting this weekend to try to have a
common approach to eliminating, or cer-
tainly reducing the disorderly marketing
of the currencies of the world.
We have had a policy of intervening in
the monetary markets only when disorder
did occur, when there were fluctuations
that were not warranted or that caused us
some concern. I think recently the value
of the dollar has been fairly well stable—
with the deutsche mark, at about 2.02.
One of the things that has been pointed
out to me is that the factors that caused
a lowering of the dollar's value, compared
to some of the stronger currencies-Swiss
francs, Japanese yen, German deutsche
marks—in this past year are being allevi-
ated.
Higher interest rates in our country
now, caused by various factors, now make
investments in the United States more
attractive than they were last year. We
had a high increase in 1977 in the amount
of oil imported. My guess is that this year,
we will not have that increase in imported
oil.
Last year, we had a much higher in-
crease in our gross national product, a
much more vigorous economy that made
it possible for us to buy foreign goods
497
