Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
just out in the Southwest Pacific this past
week. We added as commonwealths the
American Samoa and the Northern Mari-
ana Islands. It's the first territory that our
country absorbed since 1914. And I
couldn't go personally, but my family
went out to let them know we care about
them.
So, I don't think by any stretch of the
imagination we have ignored Asia's
importance.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, this is the time for
New Year's resolutions, and you've been
President for a year. Do you have any
New Year's resolutions as to how your ad-
ministration can do its job better in the
second year than it did in the first year?
I'm more concerned with how, rather
than what.
The President. Well, we've obviously
learned. I had never been to Washington
in any official capacity until I became
President.
I had come here to represent Georgia
as Governor. I had been through here
when I was an ensign, lieutenant jg. in the
Navy. But Washington was new to me
when I came. And quite often when I
meet with congressional leaders, I ask
them to remember how they felt the first
time they came to Washington and how
other people helped them. Well, I've had
good help this past year.
We've learned a lot. As I said in the TV
interview just before I went on the trip,
my most serious problem, I think, was in-
advertently building up expectations that
were too high this past year. Without any
criticism of the Congress, I underesti-
mated the time it takes for Congress to
act on major, controversial bills.
I thought we'd have a good start on
tax reform. I won't present it until a week
or so from now. I thought we'd have an
energy package complete. I thought we'd
have welfare well on the way-the com-
mittees are holding hearings now. But
we've had good accomplishments. I think
this next year, this year that we're in
now, we'll have a much more carefully
planned agenda for the Congress.
We are consulting much more inti-
mately now with the congressional leaders
and their staffs before we send to the Hill
a specific bill of any importance. I think
the Members of Congress have gotten to
know me better. I think I'll be much
more reticent to set specific deadline dates
for ourselves to meet when I don't have
control over the meeting of that target
date.
number of issues in which I'm personally
I'm going to reduce substantially the
involved before the public and let the
I think will be better. It'll give me much
Cabinet officers do more of that, which
more of an ability to focus on the things
where the President's personal involve-
ment is necessary.
I think as far as foreign issues are con-
cerned, I've weathered the year of just
becoming acquainted with foreign leaders.
I think I'll be able now to meet with and
negotiate with leaders in a much more
discriminatory way, just where my pres-
ence, again, is necessary.
As far as family life and my physical
well-being, it wouldn't be possible to im-
prove that this year. It's been very, very
good this past year. I feel at ease with the
job.
So, I think, primarily restricting my
own personal involvement in a multi-
plicity of issues simultaneously and work-
ing more intimately and closely with the
Congress, consulting with them better,
understanding the congressional processes
and giving more responsibility in a public
way to my Cabinet officers-those are
74
