Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 30, 1978
Fort Worth, Texas
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Luncheon Sponsored by Fort Worth Civic
Organizations. June 23, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Bentsen, Ma-
jority Leader Jim Wright, Mayor Parmer,
Mr. Tinsley, distinguished officials, and
other citizens of this beautiful part of the
world:
I'm glad to be back in Fort Worth.
When John Kennedy came here 15 years
ago, he said, "I'm glad to be in Jim
Wright's city." It's the way I feel.
I have to work daily with the top lead-
ers of Congress. Jim Wright occupies one
of those top positions. He's a man of sound
judgment, sensitivity, knowledge of our
country and, above all, represents the ep-
itome of what is the spirit of Texas, and
you can't be any better than that.
It's good to come to Fort Worth to be
with the Chamber of Commerce and all
the guests who have welcomed me here.
You have a 3.4 percent unemployment
rate. You must be doing something right.
You've got the tremendous metroplex area
here-Dallas, Fort Worth-the second
largest community in the world not on a
major waterway, and Jim Wright is try-
ing to work on that. [Laughter]
Jim Wright mentioned the word "cour-
age," and it kind of describes the way I
feel today to come here among westerners
who are interested in unlimited water
projects, farmers who are concerned about
beef imports, oil and gas producers who
are concerned about energy legislation. I
feel about like Proposition 13 at a bureau-
crat's picnic. [Laughter]
This noon, I'm going to make just a
few remarks and then spend what time
we have available answering your ques-
tions. As a Georgian, I would want to
point out the Dallas and Fort Worth air-
port is the fourth largest in the world. The
second largest happens to be in Atlanta.
Bob Strauss is helping me, as you know,
with inflation, and we are concerned about
the value of the dollar overseas. On the
airplane, he came up to my cabin and said,
"I've got a good idea on how to make sure
that the foreign currency doesn't improve
its value faster than the American dollar."
He said, “I think we ought to get the Ger-
man deutsche marks, the Japanese yen,
and run them through the change ma-
chine at the airport over here at Dallas
and Fort Worth. [Laughter]
It's exciting for me to come to a State
that has 25 percent of all our oil, 35 per-
cent of all our natural gas. If it was an
independent nation—and thank God it's
not-it would be the fifth greatest energy
producer on Earth, a State that's number
one in cattle production, number one in
1157
