Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
nessman by heritage, and I think that the
National Labor Relations Act, which was
a major step forward when it was passed,
has been the basis for harmony, for higher
productivity, for less conflict between
business and labor for a long time.
There are a few defects in the law that
ought to be corrected unnecessary delay,
deprivation of employee rights and al-
though I think it might contribute, as you
said, to a more stable labor base through-
out the country and eliminate some ad-
vantages that the South does have in that
respect, I still favor the legislation. And
as you know, the House passed it over-
whelmingly. There's a majority in the
Senate for it already. The question is
whether or not 60 votes can be obtained
for cloture to stop the filibuster. My pre-
diction is that the law will be passed.
SPEAKER REDMOND. Representative
MacDonald.
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
REPRESENTATIVE MACDONALD. Thank
you, Mr. President. We are honored by
your visit here in Illinois today, and we
hope you enjoy it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's my honor.
REPRESENTATIVE MACDONALD. As you
know, Mr. President, inflation is the
enemy of all of us as elected officials, and
I was wondering how you felt the increase
in the social security tax affected your
long-range fight on inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. There's no doubt that
the passage of a social security tax will
contribute to inflation to some degree. I
think, though, that the compensating tax
reduction which we are proposing now-
originally $25 billion, now lowered to $19
or $20 billion-would much more than
compensate for any increase in social secu-
rity taxes. Also, as you well know, the
average working family in our country
will not have their social security pay-
ments increased because of the recent
legislation.
That legislation was absolutely manda-
tory. Two of the three reserve funds for
the social security system were faced with
immediate bankruptcy. One of them
would have gone bankrupt next year, the
other one 3 years later. So, the Congress
had to increase income going into those
reserve funds to keep the social security
system sound for all of us.
The primary increase in social security
payments will fall on those who are in an
income bracket $20, $30, $40,000, up, the
higher range of the working families of
our country. But I think one thing that
has been forgotten is that as they pay
higher social security taxes in the future
and there are modest increases, they will
also get higher benefits if there should be
a death or if they live until retirement.
So, there a compensation is made.
So, although it does contribute slightly
to inflation, there is no alternative to it.
The only alternative being considered by
Congress is whether to finance the social
security system from general funds, and
the Congress feels certainly the Senate
feels much more strongly-that the social
security system should stand on its own
and should not be financed by general
funds.
So, I think that I've explained it as
best I can. I was in favor of the bill, am
glad the Congress is not going to undo it.
We have set up, or are setting up, a long-
term analysis of the social security system
that will be ready for me and the Con-
gress perhaps within a year But this legis-
lation now passed, moderate increases for
the higher income families, will keep the
social security system sound for the next
25 years. It's a good investment.
SPEAKER Redmond.
REDMOND. Representative
Berman. I just want to show the senate
that we really are fair in the house. Sen-
ator Berman.
SENATOR BERMAN. Thank you, Mr.
Speaker.
991
