June 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, in the current war of
words you've said you are not going to let
the Russians push us around, and Mr.
Brezhnev says that you're pursuing a dan-
gerous policy by playing the Chinese card.
My question is, are they pushing us
around and are you playing the Chinese
card?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're too strong
and powerful and deeply committed a na-
tion to be pushed around. Our economic,
military, political strength, the basic prin-
ciples on which our Nation is founded, are
too strongly held and preserved by the
American people to permit us to be weak
enough to be pushed around.
As I said in Annapolis, and as we've
had as a constant policy, we want to be
friends with the Soviet Union. We want
to have rapid progress made on the SALT
negotiations, the comprehensive test ban,
increased trade, better communication.
Some of the things the Soviets do cause
us deep concern. The human rights
questions within the Soviet Union in vio-
lation of the Helsinki agreement, their
intrusion, along with the Cubans, into
Africa, these things do cause us some con-
cern and create in the American people
some doubt about the Soviets' good and
peaceful intentions. But I have a deep
belief that the underlying relationship
between ourselves and the Soviets is stable
and that Mr. Brezhnev, along with my-
self, wants peace and wants to have better
friendship.
We are not trying, nor will we ever try,
to play the Soviets against the People's
Republic of China, nor vice versa. We
have some very important relationships
with the Chinese that need to be pursued.
There are worldwide common hopes that
we share with the Chinese. We have bi-
lateral relations that we want to expand-
trade, exchange of science and technol-
ogy, and so forth-and at the same time,
we want to have peace with the Chinese,
almost a billion people. These are the
goals that we have maintained during my
own administration, the same identical
goals as were evoked clearly by President
Nixon and President Ford.
So, we won't let any temporary dis-
harmonies or disputes about transient
circumstances delay our pursuit of peace
with the Soviet Union, nor our ability nor
commitment toward better relationships
with the People's Republic of China.
Q. Mr. President, to follow that up,
you are consciously not linking the prog-
ress in the strategic arms negotiations to
Soviet behavior either in Africa or the
dissident problem. There is a suggestion
made by a member of the National Secu-
rity Council staff that there should be
linkage, however, between trade with the
Soviet Union and the transfer of tech-
nology to the Soviet Union and their
actions throughout the rest of the world.
Do you favor using trade and economic
incentives as a means of moderating
Soviet behavior?
THE PRESIDENT. I've not heard that
proposal that you describe. As you know,
the Soviets have arrested an American
businessman.ยน We've had a very hard time
trying to determine if there is any grounds
for his arrest, and the Soviet press, which
is a spokesman for the Soviet Govern-
ment, has already condemned him with-
out a trial or even without thorough
investigation. This kind of an episode
naturally causes concern among
among the
American business community, who does
look upon the Soviet Union, as do I, as
a good place for the sale of American
manufactured products, American farm
and agricultural products, and other
things. But we've never tried to threaten
ยน Francis Jay Crawford, an employee of the
International Harvester Company, was de-
tained by Soviet authorities for alleged cur-
rency violations.
1180
