Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 5
be struggled for again and again and
again.
Our ancestors made their defense with
principles and with revolution. People of
my parents' generation, and of my own,
bore arms in the name of freedom. Many
of them were left at Normandy Beach and
at the thousands of other shrines to liberty
across the world.
Though we will always be prepared, we
pray that their sacrifice in battle need
never be repeated. And we know that war
need not come again so long as we trans-
mit our devotion to those values of free
people, strengthened and renewed, to
each succeeding generation that comes
after us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:32 p.m. to
members of French-American business, civic,
and cultural societies. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Louis de Guiringaud, Foreign
Minister of France.
Normandy, France
Remarks of the President and President
Giscard d'Estaing on Visiting the Site of
the D-Day Landings. January 5, 1978
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Giscard,
friends of France and the United States
of America join together in history in the
present and in the future.
This morning I flew in a modern-day
helicopter from our Armed Forces in
Europe from Paris to these famous beach-
es, and on the trip I thought about the
past which has brought us together today.
In June of 1940 General de Gaulle, the
leader of the French Resistance forces,
said, "The flame of the French Resistance
must not and will not die." Four years
later, on the 6th of June, 1944, the Allied
forces came to the beaches known to us
as Omaha, Utah, Juno, Gold, and Sword
to begin a heroic action leading to the
liberation of Europe.
On that day, an unprecedented armada
landed on the shores of Normandy. One
hundred and seventy-six thousand brave
troops came here from England to launch
a tremendous attack. Within 2 weeks,
more than 12 million troops had moved
into France and the other coastal
countries.
Before me, beyond the flags of my coun-
try and that of France, there are more
than 9,000 white marble crosses erected in
memory of those who died near here.
They served under great commanders—
General Eisenhower, General Montgom-
ery, General Bradley, General Theodore
Roosevelt, Jr., who, because of his hero-
ism, was awarded the Medal of Honor and
later joined the French 2d Armored Divi-
sion under General Leclerc.
The 1st and the 29th American Divi-
sions were the ones who landed near here
on the Omaha Beach. This was where the
most fierce resistance was encountered.
And of the roughly 2,500 who came
ashore, about 2,000 died.
At one point, American rangers had to
scale a vertical hundred-foot cliff while
the Germans above rolled down grenades
upon them.
On Omaha Beach, hundreds of our
troops lay dead, and the sight was so im-
pressive that because of that the German
commanders thought, until it was too
late for them, that the victory had been
won by Germany.
But from Juno, Gold, and Sword,
Allied forces moved forward and were
eventually
eventually victorious, and then swept
across Europe, restoring freedom here.
Almost two centuries before that, the
French had come to our shores to help
give Americans freedom, led by Lafayette,
Comte d'Estaing, and many other cou-
rageous men.
27
