Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 26
half of 1 percent of the American tax-
payers, who make more than $100,000 a
year. Three thousand millionaires would
get tax reductions averaging $214,000.
The other 992 percent of our taxpayers
would not do quite so well.
For instance, a middle-income family
making between $20,000 and $30,000 a
year would get a tax reduction from this
proposal of less than $1. And the work-
ing man or woman who makes $20,000 or
less a year would get no more than 25
cents.
The American people want some tax
relief from the heavy burden of taxation
on their shoulders, but neither they nor
I will tolerate a plan that provides huge
tax windfalls for millionaires and two bits
for the average American. That under-
estimates the intelligence of the American
people.
My proposals to reduce the taxes paid
by large and small businesses so that they
can invest in new investments, new busi-
nesses, new equipment, new jobs, is a
much more fair and effective approach
than providing huge tax giveaways to
millionaires. Both businesses and also
American working families deserve a real
tax cut this year, and our tax code barely
needs to be made simpler, fairer, and more
effective.
I'm working hard for tax reduction and
tax reform, but only Congress can pass
laws. I'm still confident that in response
to the obvious desires of the American
people, the Congress will act responsibly
on the tax package I have submitted. The
American people expect and deserve no
less.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, could you give us
your current assessment of Middle East
peace prospects at this time, when Israel
and Egypt are again apparently at an
impasse?
THE PRESIDENT. My experience in
dealing with the Mideast peace proposals
leads me not to be surprised when we have
temporary setbacks or rejections from one
side or the other.
I thought the Israeli Cabinet response
to our two basic questions was very dis-
appointing. And I notice that this week-
end the Israeli Cabinet rejected an Egyp-
tian proposal that has not even yet been
made. It's not in final form, I understand.
It certainly has not been presented to us
to present to the Israelis. It's already been
rejected.
Our commitment to pursuing a com-
prehensive and effective peace agreement
in the Middle East is constant and very
dedicated. We will not back off on this.
After we receive the Egyptian proposal
when it's put in final form, we will be sure
to relay it to the Israelis, as the Egyptians
will request, and then both proposals, the
Israeli proposal, the Egyptian proposal,
will be on the table.
At that time it might be appropriate, if
the Israelis and Egyptians agree, for a
meeting between their Foreign Ministers,
perhaps, and our own Secretary of State.
I would hope that at that point we could
make real progress toward searching out
the common ground on which they might
stand and alleviating the differences that
still remain. But I can't predict the rate
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ- of progress. It obviously will require good
ated Press].
faith and some flexibility on both sides.
1179
