Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
in equitable and stabilized sugar prices
and supplies.
For all of these reasons, I urge the Sen-
ate to give this Agreement favorable con-
sideration and its advice and consent to
ratification. The Department of State will
submit legislation to implement the
Agreement.
The White House,
January 25, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Meeting With Head of
Delegation of Supreme
Soviet Parliamentarians
White House Statement Issued Following the
Meeting With B. N. Ponomarev.
January 25, 1978
The President met for 1 hour this
afternoon with Mr. Boris Ponomarev. Mr.
Ponomarev is the head of a delegation of
parliamentarians of the Supreme Soviet
visiting the United States at the invitation
of the U.S. Congress. He is a candidate
Politburo member and Central Commit-
tee Secretary of the Communist Party of
the Soviet Union.
The President stated his interest in
working on a mutual basis to widen the
areas of cooperation and to limit the areas
of competition that mark relations be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union. The President noted that this will
require reciprocity and restraint on both
sides. The discussion was friendly and
productive.
Specific subjects discussed included
included
SALT, the Horn of Africa, the Middle
East, and other issues.
The President was joined by the Vice
President, Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assist-
ant for National Security Affairs, and
Reginald Bartholomew of the NSC staff.
Mr. Ponomarev was accompanied by
Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin.
The interpreters were Dimitry Zarechnak
for the United States and Olga A. Krok-
halev for the Soviet Union.
Highway and Transit Programs
Message to the Congress Proposing
Legislation. January 26, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to Congress
proposed legislation that will significantly
improve the organization and operation
of the Federal government's highway and
transit programs.
One of the Administration's important
goals is to develop a well balanced na-
tional transportation policy, one which
takes account of our increased sensitivity
to the effects of transportation on the
social and economic life of our cities and
rural communities. The reforms which
are proposed in this legislation are de-
signed to make certain that the nation has
an effective transportation system, which
uses energy more efficiently, enhances the
quality of life in our urban and rural
areas, and helps expand our economy.
The program I am proposing will in-
tensify the Federal effort to complete the
Interstate System and provide flexible
assistance for highway construction and
transit development. The legislation
would authorize more than $50 billion
over the next five years and proposes the
following changes to meet national trans-
portation needs:
—a comprehensive transportation plan-
ning program;
-measures to speed completion of the
Interstate System and to improve
maintenance;
!
220
