Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
which state and local governments use
subsidized financing. State and local gov-
ernments will benefit under the taxable
bond option regardless of whether they
decide to issue taxable or tax-exempt
bonds: those issuing taxable bonds will
benefit directly from the interest subsidy,
and those continuing to issue tax-exempt
bonds will benefit because the reduced
supply of such bonds will allow govern-
ments to sell them at lower interest rates.
Accrual Accounting for Large Corporate
Farms
Most taxpayers that are in the business
of selling products must use an accrual
method of accounting so that income is
reflected accurately for tax purposes.
However, farmers have historically been
permitted to use the simpler cash method
on the grounds that they lack the account-
ing and bookkeeping expertise required by
the accrual system.
Congress acted in 1976 to deny the cash
accounting privilege to most large cor-
porate farms (with annual gross receipts
exceeding $1 million), but retained an
exception for large corporations that are
"family owned." This distinction between
family and nonfamily corporations bears
no relationship to the rationale of preserv-
ing simple bookkeeping methods for small
farmers. It has resulted in severe competi-
tive imbalances between large corpora-
tions now required to use accrual account-
ing and those that are equally large but
happen to fall within the definition of a
"family farm."
(2) Pollution Control Bonds, Bonds for
the Development of Industrial Parks, and
Private Hospital Bonds. The tax exemp-
tion will be removed for interest on pol-
lution control bonds and bonds for the
development of industrial parks. Also, the
exemption will be removed for bonds is-
sued to finance construction of hospital
facilities for private, non-profit institu-
tions unless there is a certification by the
state that a new hospital is needed. These
activities are essentially for the benefit of
private users, and the tax exemption for
the bonds has the effect of undermining
the financing of governmental functions.
Moreover, the general exemption for hos-
This inequitable exception should now
pital bonds encourages excessive expan-
be eliminated. Corporate farms with gross
sion of unneeded hospital facilities and
runs counter to the Administration's Hos- receipts exceeding $1 million cannot fairly
claim that they lack the sophistication
pital Cost Containment proposal.
necessary to comply with accrual account-
(3) Small Issue Exemption. The existing standards. Nor can lack of financial
ing "small issue" exemptions will be re-
tained only for economically distressed
areas; and, with respect to those areas, the
$5 million exemption will be raised to $10
million.
(4) Option for Certain Industrial De-
velopment Bonds. Industrial development
bonds which continue to enjoy tax-ex-
empt status (such as those to finance
sports facilities, housing, airports and con-
vention facilities and small issues for eco-
nomically distressed areas) will be eligible
for the taxable bond option on the same
terms as obligations issued for the benefit
of state and local governments.
sophistication be claimed by farm syndi-
cates used as investment vehicles by non-
farmers. Therefore, I recommend that the
accrual accounting requirement cover
corporations with gross receipts greater
than $1 million, regardless of their owner-
ship, and all farm syndicates.
Tax Treatment of Financial Institutions
Financial institutions now have a fa-
vored tax status that is based largely on
outmoded concepts regarding the nature
of these businesses. Commercial banks,
mutual savings banks and savings and
loan associations were permitted to de-
171
