Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
the interim use and transfer of excess base
properties for job-generating purposes at
prices the impacted communities can af-
ford to pay.
In addition, I have asked the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
to review the adequacy of the arrange-
ments for the implementation of this Ex-
ecutive Order. Your cooperation with the
Secretary of Defense and the Director of
OMB will enable us to implement neces-
sary Defense changes and render more
effective Federal assistance to those in
need.
JIMMY CARTER
Harry S Truman Scholarship
Foundation
Nomination of Anita M. Miller To Be a
Member of the Board of Trustees.
March 27, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Anita M. Miller, of Sacra-
mento, Calif., to be a member of the
Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation for a term expir-
ing December 10, 1983. She would re-
place Jonathan Moore, whose term has
expired.
Miller, 49, is president of the National
Association of Commissions for Women,
a national network of official governmen-
tal commissions on the status of women.
She is also president and executive direc-
tor of the Institute for Studies in Equality.
The President's Trip to
Latin America and Africa
Announcement Concerning Members of the
Official Party During the Visit to
Africa. March 27, 1978
Margaret Buckner Young and Jesse
Hill, Jr., will be members of President
Carter's official party on the Nigeria and
Liberia portions of the President's trip to
South America and Africa.
The President thought it would be ap-
propriate that two such prominent black
American leaders be members of the offi-
cial party on the first state visit ever paid
to black Africa by an American President.
He thinks highly of Mrs. Young and Mr.
Hill and asked that they join him on his
trip.
Mrs. Young and Mr. Hill are expected
to join the Carter traveling party in Rio
de Janeiro Friday morning and remain
with the party the rest of the trip.
Mrs. Young is the chairperson of the
Whitney M. Young, Jr., Memorial Foun-
dation. She is also an author. She is the
widow of the late Whitney M. Young,
Jr., a noted national black leader and the
former head of the National Urban
League (1961-1971).
Mrs. Young, a native of Campbells-
ville, Ky., has written four children's
books:. "First Book of American Ne-
groes," "The Picture Life of Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr.," "The Picture Life of
Thurgood Marshall,” and “Black Amer-
ican Leaders."
She was recently appointed by the
President to be a member of the Board
of Visitors to the United States Military
Academy.
Hill is the president and chief executive
officer of the Atlanta Life Insurance Co.
The insurance company is the largest
stockholder life insurance company or fi-
nancial institution controlled and man-
aged by black Americans.
Mr. Hill, a native of St. Louis, Mo., is
also the president of the Atlanta Cham-
ber of Commerce and is the holder of
numerous civic positions including
memberships on the boards of directors
of the National Urban Coalition, the Na-
tional Urban League, and the Southern
Christian Leadership Conference.
596
