Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 14
the target of 725,000 we had set for that
date more than 9 months ago.
Last May, when the economic stimulus
package was passed, there were fewer than
300,000 jobs being provided by the major
public service employment titles of the
Comprehensive Employment and Train-
ing Act. There were numerous conten-
tions that we would be unable to meet our
schedule of 725,000 jobs by March 1.
Not only did we meet the target, but we
met it in the week we had scheduled more
than 9 months ago. This demonstrates
that the CETA system is an effective fiscal
policy tool that can move rapidly against
the problem of unemployment.
This rapid expansion of the public serv-
ice jobs program was done without the
creation of a large, new Federal bureauc-
racy.
It was done, as a recent study by
Richard Nathan of the Brookings Insti-
of the CETA bill that will devote 100 per-
cent of the future resources of the system
to the disadvantaged.
The new bill also contains a provision
that automatically increases the funding
for this program when the unemployment
rate rises. Our recent success in reaching
the 725,000 jobs target indicates these ad-
ditional funds will be able to be spent
quickly and efficiently, as we had intended
when drafting the new bill.
I took office with the firm conviction
that government can be made to work
compassionately, quickly, and effectively.
The successful expansion of the public
service jobs program within such a short
period of time reaffirms my faith in the
ability of government to deal directly with
serious economic and social problems.
tution indicates, without a significant de- Energy Emergency in Alabama
gree of substitution of CETA workers for
regular municipal employees.
The increase in CETA employment
since May was accompanied by a much
larger increase in private sector employ-
ment. While the 450,000 new CETA jobs
were being created, private employment
increased by 2.6 million. The unemploy-
ment rate fell from 7.1 percent to 6.1 per-
cent now. Black employment increased by
5.9 percent. It is estimated that 33 percent
of that increase was due to the buildup of
the CETA system jobs.
The growth since May has been con-
centrated much more heavily among dis-
advantaged workers than before. Prior to
the expansion, fewer than half the en-
rollees in the major CETA employment
titles were disadvantaged. During the ex-
pansion, more than 86 percent of new en-
rollees were disadvantaged. I have sub-
mitted to the Congress a reauthorization
Statement by the President. March 14, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Alabama,
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I hereby determine that a re-
State of Alabama of such severity that a
gional energy emergency exists in the
temporary suspension of certain particu-
late and sulfur dioxide control regulations
under the Alabama Air Quality Imple-
mentation Plan may be necessary, and
that other means of responding to the en-
ergy emergency may be inadequate. This
determination shall be effective for not
more than thirty (30) days, provided that
the State of Alabama shall comply with
the conditions set forth in this determina-
tion. If, during the period of suspension, I
find that a regional energy emergency no
longer exists in Alabama, I will direct that
this determination of regional energy
emergency be rescinded and that all sus-
507
