Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Our national interest simply can't with-
stand unreasonable increases in wages and
prices. It's my responsibility to speak out
firmly and clearly when the welfare of
our people is at stake.
Members of my administration have al-
ready discussed this deceleration program
with a number of leaders of labor, busi-
ness, and industry. Many have already
promised their cooperation.
Later, I expect to meet with business
and labor leaders to discuss contributions
that they can make to help slow the rate
of inflation. One of the most important
contributions that they can make is to
show that restraint applies to everyone—
not just the men and women in the as-
sembly line but also the managers in the
executive suites. Just as I will freeze the
pay of the top executives in the Federal
Government, the American people will
expect similar restraint from the leaders
of American business and labor.
I'm determined to devote the power of
my office toward the objective of reduced
inflation. Our approach must be flexible
enough to account for the variations in
our complex economy, but it must be com-
prehensive enough to cover most of the
activities of our economy.
In the long run, we should develop spe-
cial programs to deal with individual sec-
tors of the economy where government
actions have the greatest potential for re-
ducing inflation. These include housing,
medical care, food, transportation, energy,
and the primary metals industry.
The members of my Cabinet will work
individually and also with the Council on
Wage and Price Stability to develop and
to announce early action to reduce infla-
tion within their own areas of responsi-
bility.
To accomplish our deceleration goals
in the private sector, I'm asking my Spe-
cial Trade Representative, Robert Strauss,
to take on additional duties as a special
counselor on inflation. He will work di-
rectly with me, with Treasury Secretary
Blumenthal, my chief financial spokes-
man, with Charlie Schultze, the Chair-
man of the Council on Wage and Price
Stability,
Stability, and its Executive Director,
Barry Bosworth. He will have specific
authority to speak for me in the public
interest and will be a member of the Steer-
ing Committee of the Economic Policy
Group under the chairmanship of Secre-
tary Blumenthal.
Reducing the inflation rate will not
be easy, and it will not come overnight.
We must admit to ourselves that we will
never cope successfully with this chal-
lenge until we face some unpleasant facts
about ourselves, about the solutions, and
about our problems.
The problems of this generation are,
in a way, more difficult than those of a
generation before. We face no sharply
focused crisis or threat which might make
us forget our differences and rally to the
defense of the common good.
We all want something to be done
about our problems, except when the
solutions affect us. We want to conserve
energy, but not to change our wasteful
habits. We favor sacrifice, so long as
someone else goes first. We want to
abolish tax loopholes, unless it's our loop-
hole. We denounce special interests,
except for our own.
No act of Congress, no program of our
Government, no order of mine as Presi-
dent can bring out the quality that we
need: to change from the preoccupation
with self that can cripple our national
will, to a willingness to acknowledge and
to sacrifice for the common good.
As the Nation prepared for the chal-
lenge of war nearly 40 years ago, Walter
Lippmann addressed these words to the
American people, and I quote from him:
"You took the good things for granted,”
he said. "Now you must earn them
726
