Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
coming. In addition, the Nigerians have
requested senior assistance, retired execu-
tives from the United States who have
knowledge in economic development and
petroleum to come here to work with
them. And we will pursue that through
the Secretary of State.
The Eximbank loans, the OPIC in-
surance, which I think we now have 31
applicants who are ready to come into
Nigeria to make investments-this will
be expedited.
In addition, we have established, after
General Obasanjo's visit to the United
States in October, detailed discussions
between our own Commerce Department
and other officials and the Nigerians on
how we can increase investment and
technical assistance for Nigeria.
It is a very good country in which to
invest. There is a stable government with
a prospect of constitutional government
that will be equally stable. I think the
past problems with American investors
have now been overcome. I know that
several major companies-Ford, Mack
Truck, Bechtel, and others are now
coming into Nigeria to invest.
So, I would guess that all the needs of
Nigeria-technical assistance and devel-
opment-will be met.
EMBARGOES AGAINST SOUTH AFRICA
Q. Did the General ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent, to take stronger action toward
South Africa and Rhodesia, perhaps
more embargoes?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the General
would be more inclined to take addi-
tional embargo action against South
Africa than would we. As I have said, we
have cooperated in the United Nations
actions, and even before the U.N. action,
we took unilateral steps to declare a com-
plete arms embargo against South Africa.
U.S.-NIGERIAN COOPERATION
Q. Mr. President, what specific areas of
bilateral cooperation would you like be-
tween your country and Nigeria on any
issue, or on any important project to use
for this important visit?
THE PRESIDENT. We have got now
four committees set up, one for the de-
velopment of Nigerian agriculture. This
is a joint effort where we help Nigeria
and we learn in the process. Another one
of the subcommittees is on education.
And we have always had, for many years,
a very good relationship here. We want
to improve it.
Another one is in economic develop-
ment. I mentioned that we have 31 ap-
plicants right now of American business
investments that are waiting to be made
in Nigeria. And the fourth one is techni-
cal assistance, where we will provide
technical training in the United States
and send technicians here who are ex-
pert, to help with the future develop-
ment of the Nigerian economy.
These efforts are all very fruitful, and
they will be better in the future. We have
decided, for instance, this morning that
the joint study commission that was set
up last October, that already met in Ni-
geria in November, will have another
meeting in the United States in April,
this month, the last of this month, will
make a report to me and to General Oba-
sanjo by the end of May to identify any
remaining problems, so that he and I can
personally resolve those problems and
remove the obstacles to the further eco-
nomic development, on a joint basis, be-
tween our country and Nigeria.
MEETINGS ON ZIMBABWE AND NAMIBIA
Q. You said the General would be
more inclined to have stronger embar-
goes. Did he urge you to do anything
that your administration is not doing
652
