June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
rate of expansion in the economy as a
whole.
The Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates that the cost containment legisla-
tion now pending before the Commerce
Committee will save at least $30 billion
in hospital expenditures over the next 5
years. It will reduce Federal expenditures
for Medicare and Medicaid by over $8
billion during this period.
Approval of this bill is essential for re-
straining health care costs. If the legisla-
tion I proposed last year had taken effect
in October of 1977, our country would
already have saved $2 billion in hospital
costs by now. A vote against the bill is a
vote against putting the brakes on run-
away
health inflation. A vote for this bill
is a vote against inflation.
Powerful special interests will oppose
any bill to fight inflation. This is certainly
true for hospital cost containment, with
intense lobbying against this needed legis-
lation continuing up to the last minute. I
am confident, however, that the members
of the Commerce Committee will over-
come these pressures and will take this
crucial step to help all Americans fight
skyrocketing hospital costs and rising
inflation.
Community Investment
Fund Program
Remarks at a White House Meeting on the
Program. June 8, 1978
We have a very distinguished group
here this morning, and I want to thank all
of you for coming from different parts of
the Nation, from different agencies in the
Federal Government, representatives of
the private lending sector, and represent-
atives of volunteer groups, counties, cities,
States.
When we evolved, with careful con-
sultation among all of us, a new cohesive
and, I think, adequate national urban
policy, the main point we made was that
it would be a new partnership, that the
close working relationship and the con-
sultation that evolved the policy itself
would be continued in the future in its
implementation.
One of the key elements of this partner-
ship, which was, perhaps, not adequately
emphasized at the time of the urban pol-
icy description to the public, is among
the independent financial regulatory
agencies in the Federal Government. And
this morning, just for a few minutes, I'd
like to outline some of the important
progress that we have made already, and
I hope this will be a basis for even greater
future progress.
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board,
under Bob McKinney's chairmanship, has
evolved a $10 billion Community Invest-
ment Fund. This is derived from funds
that are within the Federal Home Loan
Bank system itself. These are not appro-
priations from Congress, but the effective-
ness of them is just as great, perhaps even
greater. Because they will be administered
on a regional basis, there's a very tight-
knit and effective administrative structure
already in place in the private sector of
our economy, and the knowledge of local
needs is extensive and profound.
I'm very proud of this. These funds will
be a supplement to normal moneys avail-
able for lending now. They will be con-
centrated on reinvestment in areas in our
urban communities which are badly in
need of stimulation, revitalization, of
community beautification, financial con-
sultation, the construction of low- and
moderate-income housing. Just exactly
what's needed in the extensive urban
policy to reconstitute the vitality of our
deteriorating neighborhoods in this coun-
try is what this fund will be used for. I'm
very grateful for it, and I believe it will
be a major step in the right direction.
I might say in addition that the
1058
