Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 28
World War. My son is a veteran. He
served in Vietnam. But we have too long
had veterans preferences in government
hiring that were much greater, much
more stringent than the Congress ever
originally intended.
The purpose of the veterans prefer-
ence was to help those who offered their
lives and their time to serving our coun-
try in a time of danger, but they've
been abused because of the great politi-
cal influence of the veterans organiza-
tions and I belong to the American
Legion. But now we have a provision
whereby an officer can serve in the Navy
at a very reasonable salary these days,
can retire after 20 years of service on a
very healthy pension, and when he comes
to get a job in the Federal Government,
he has preference over anyone else who
applies if he has a reasonably good score
on the test. And many times there are
qualified women and others who make
100, who make a perfect score on the
competitive test, who cannot even be con-
sidered for a job.
So, what we want to do is to keep the
veterans preference for those who have
served in the Armed Forces for the last
10 years. That will get all the Vietnam
veterans and those who are disabled and
let the rest of the veterans compete with
you for jobs in the Federal Government.
That's one of the things we want to do.
But you can see that if you are quiet or
timid or don't much care, then, of course,
the veterans organizations and others are
going to keep those preferences that they
have. So, we need to have you fight hard
to make these changes.
Among the top civil service grades, the
managers, 65 percent of those are male
veterans; 3 percent are women. That
needs to be changed. And if you'll help
me, we'll change it.
Let me just say one other thing. This is
going to be a difficult political year, be-
cause we've addressed some highly con-
troversial subjects that had never been
dealt with in a forceful and aggressive way
before. The Panama Canal Treaty is just
one of them.
We're looking for a comprehensive,
permanent peace in the Middle East. We
are expanding our interests into Africa.
We are looking for a SALT agreement, a
comprehensive test ban. We are trying to
bring a settlement to the Cyprus question,
many other very controversial foreign af-
fairs questions that we are dealing with.
We're looking for a comprehensive
energy policy, and I think you all
know that every time you address one of
these longstanding, political questions, you
arouse opposition from those who have
benefited in the past from dormancy. And
when you address something like tax re-
form, you really shake up people that, be-
cause of influence and privilege, get some
special preference in the tax codes, and
you know who pays for it is Democrats.
The Republicans are the ones ordinarily
that get the benefits. The Democrats are
the ones that pay for it. We need to
change that, right? [Applause]
Well, we were partners in 1976, when
I was elected President. We'll be part-
ners again this year in electing Democrats
to the Congress. But the most important
partnership of all is the one that must
exist between organized Democratic
women and the administration here in
Washington and in the statehouse as
well, who try to serve our country in an
effective way.
So, I hope you will get involved di-
rectly in the campaign contest during
1978. It's crucial that we show the Na-
tion that we stand for the principles that
have always been important to our party,
that we are effective in administering the
799
