Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
able assurance that their judgment, if
valid, will prevail.
At the same time, employees will re-
ceive a more rapid hearing for their
grievances.
The procedures that exist to protect
employee rights are absolutely essential.
But employee appeals must now go
through the Civil Service Commission,
which has a built-in conflict of interest
by serving simultaneously as rule-maker,
prosecutor, judge, and employee advocate.
The legislation I am proposing today
would give all competitive employees a
statutory right of appeal. It would spell
out fair and sensible standards for the
Merit Protection Board to apply in hear-
ing appeals. Employees would be pro-
vided with attorneys' fees if they prevail
and the agency's action were found to
have been wholly without basis. Both em-
ployees and managers would have, for the
first time, subpoena power to ensure wit-
ness participation and document submis-
sion. The subpoena power would expedite
the appeals process, as would new provi-
sions for prehearing discovery. One of the
three existing appeal levels would be
eliminated.
These changes would provide both em-
ployees and managers with speedier and
fairer judgments on the appeal of disci-
plinary actions.
5. Improved Labor-Management Rela-
tions
In 1962, President John F. Kennedy
issued Executive Order 10988, establish-
ing a labor-management relations pro-
gram in the Executive Branch. The Exec-
utive Order has demonstrated its value
through five Administrations. However, I
believe that the time has come to increase
its effectiveness by abolishing the Federal
Labor Relations Council created by Exec-
utive Order 10988 and transferring its
functions, along with related functions of
the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor
Relations, to a newly established Federal
Labor Relations Authority. The Author-
ity will be composed of three full-time
members appointed by the President with
the advice and consent of the Senate.
I have also directed members of my
Administration to develop, as part of Civil
Service reform, a Labor-Management Re-
lations legislative proposal by working
with the appropriate Congressional Com-
mittees, Federal employees and their rep-
resentatives. The goal of this legislation
will be to make Executive Branch labor
relations more comparable to those of
private business, while recognizing the
special requirements of the Federal gov-
ernment and the paramount public inter-
est in the effective conduct of the public's
business. This will facilitate Civil Service
reform of the managerial and supervisory
elements of the Executive Branch, free of
union involvement, and, at the same time,
improve the collective bargaining process
as an integral part of the personnel sys-
tem for Federal workers.
It will permit the establishment
through collective bargaining of griev-
ance and arbitration systems, the cost of
which will be borne largely by the parties
to the dispute. Such procedures will
largely displace the multiple appeals sys-
tems which now exist and which are
unanimously perceived as too costly, too
cumbersome and ineffective.
6. Decentralized Personnel Decisionmak-
ing
Examining candidates for jobs in the
career service is now done almost exclu-
sively by the Civil Service Commission,
which now may take as long as six or eight
months to fill important agency positions.
In addition, many routine personnel
mangement actions must be submitted
to the Civil Service Commission for prior
approval. Much red tape and delay are
447
