Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
White House. I think that's something
that has to be initiated and carried out by
individual Americans.
Obviously, if I see a sinful act or an im-
proper or heartless act being carried out by
our Nation in the past or present or fu-
ture, it's my responsibility as President to
stop that action and to condone through
action, for inequities or suffering that has
been caused by it.
So, I don't know any better way to de-
scribe the question than that. I don't con-
sider myself to be the spiritual leader of
this country. I'm the political leader. I
have a right, I think, and a duty to be
frank with the American people about my
own belief. And I'm not a priest nor a
bishop nor someone who, you know, fills
a religious pulpit and is authorized nor
asked to repent for the whole country.
I've answered your question in a fum-
bling way. But that's the way I feel about
it. And I recognize my own personal
shortcomings and sinfulness. I do ask God
to forgive me. I try to do better. And I
think that the American people, whether
they are religious or not, have the same
strong inclination to correct deficiencies,
to repair wrongs, to turn ourselves in a
much closer way, personally and collec-
tively, to exemplify the highest possible
moral principles on which our Nation has
been so great.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE COAL STRIKE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim
Evans, and I attend Nashua High School.
My question concerns the coal strike, and
you talked about the negotiations cur-
rently going on. But what if they don't
reach an agreement? Will you invoke the
Taft-Hartley Act and, if so, when? Do
you have like a deadline set in your mind
at all?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
if any such action should be required in
the future, an action by Congress or an
invoking of the Taft-Hartley Act, it would
be a major loss for our country. It would
hurt me as President. It would hurt the
mine owners and the mineworkers. It
would hurt the status of the United Mine
Workers union, which is already on shaky
grounds because of divisions and intensely
fought recent elections. It would hurt the
entire bargaining process, where working
people have a right to negotiate with their
employers for fair working conditions.
There is also a history among mine-
workers of intense independence and an
aversion to the intrusion of the Federal
Government into their own lives.
Obviously, as President, I cannot per-
mit the country to suffer from a delay in
negotiations. Last night, we were at the
point of narrowing down the issues be-
tween the owners and the workers to a
very few but important points.
The way the negotiations are taking
place is that there is a negotiating team
or committee representing the workers,
that's nine people. The employers have a
negotiating team of their own. And there
is a so-called bargaining council of 39
people representing the workers.
We brought all of those now together in
the same building, the Labor building,
and the Secretary of Labor moves from
one group to another. They are quite of-
ten separated from one another in dif-
ferent rooms, caucusing. And he tries to
they might agree.
explore some common ground on which
The dissatisfaction with the present
proposal is lessening. But there are some
hard and firm positions that are difficult
to change. So, we will continue, and so
far successfully, to get the leaders of the
workers and owners to continue to nego-
tiate. And progress has been made. I can't
predict success.
379
