Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 11
God. For others, motherhood means
helping a weak body or an unawakened
mind overcome burdens that may often
seem too great to bear. For both, mother-
hood brings the privilege of seeing the
tired world through fresh eyes and the
satisfaction of knowing that one has met
another's needs in a way no other could.
To the mothers of America, in recog-
nition of their achievements in the art of
raising a new generation of Americans
and as an acknowledgment of all they
have done to shape our national char-
acter, the Congress, by joint resolution of
May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770; 36 U.S.C.
141), has set aside the second Sunday in
May of each year as a day of special
tribute.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby request that Sunday,
May 14, 1978, be observed throughout
our nation as Mother's Day. I ask all
Americans to take this opportunity to ex-
press their personal gratitude to their own
mothers and to thank all those women
whose tireless devotion to their families
has so enriched our nation.
I ask all public officials to display the
flag of the United States on all govern-
ment buildings and urge all Americans to
display our flag at their homes or other
suitable places on that day as a public
expression of our love for the mothers of
our country.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
May, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:17 p.m., May 11, 1978]
Federal Statistical System
Memorandum From the President.
May 11, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Review of the Federal Statis-
tical System
I have directed my Reorganization
Project staff to perform a comprehensive
review of the organization of the system
that collects, evaluates and disseminates
statistical data for the Federal govern-
ment.
This Nation has the most accurate and
efficient statistical system in the world.
But a number of persistent problems-
including the burden placed upon re-
spondents and the responsiveness of data
to policy needs-indicate a pressing need
to improve the coordination of Federal
statistical activities, which are growing at
an increasing rate.
The study will use to the maximum
extent the work that has been done in
previous efforts. During the course of the
study the project staff will be seeking the
advice and support—including staff as-
sistance and other resources-of
many of
the agencies that are part of our statistical
system. I trust you will cooperate to the
fullest extent possible. In addition to
Federal agencies, the project will need
the advice and counsel of the Congress,
State and local governments and the
public.
To ensure that all affected parties are
informed, I have directed that this memo-
randum be published in the FEDERAL
REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:58 a.m., May 12, 1978]
891
