Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
live and work; we can help the people
of urban America lead happier and
more useful lives. But we can only do it
together.
The White House,
March 27, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
Defense Economic Adjustment
Programs
Executive Order 12049. March 27, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution of the
United States of America, in order to
provide coordinated Federal economic
adjustment assistance necessitated by
changes in Department of Defense ac-
tivities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Functions of the Secretary
of Defense.
(a) The Secretary shall, through the
Economic Adjustment Committee, design
and establish an Economic Adjustment
Program to assist in the alleviation of
serious economic and social impacts that
result from major Defense realignments.
The program shall provide for:
1. Identification of Defense-related
impact problems of States, metropolitan
areas, or communities that require as-
sistance.
2. Preparation of development strat-
egies and action plans to coordinate Fed-
eral, State and local economic adjustment
efforts.
3. Strengthened and uniform
nomic impact analysis and analysis of
community requirements for Federal eco-
nomic adjustment resources, prior to base
realignment action.
4. Timely and earliest possible con-
sultation and cooperation with local,
State and Federal officials concerning im-
pact problems and coordinated inter-
agency and intergovernmental adjust-
ment assistance.
5. A clearinghouse service to exchange
information among Federal, State and
local officials involved in the resolution of
community adjustment problems; e.g.,
previous studies, technical information,
and sources of public and private
financing.
6. Application of consistent policies,
practices, and procedures in the adminis-
tration of Federal programs that are uti-
lized to assist Defense impact communi-
ties.
7. Encouragement of effective State
and regional cooperation and concerted
involvement of public interest groups and
private sector organizations in Defense
adjustment activities.
8. Development, with representatives
of appropriate agencies, of uniform cri-
teria for the determination of social eco-
nomic impact of a particular realignment.
9. Identification and strengthening of
existing agency mechanisms to better co-
ordinate employment opportunities for
displaced agency personnel.
10. Increased attractiveness to the pri-
vate sector of interim usage of lands and
buildings and ways of streamlining prop-
erty disposal procedures to enable im-
pacted communities to acquire base prop-
erty for job-generation purposes as mili-
tary activities phase down.
(b) The Secretary of Defense shall en-
sure that sufficient resources and person-
nel are allocated to carry out these func-
tions.
SEC. 2. Economic Adjustment Commit-
tee. (a) The Economic Adjustment Com-
mittee is hereby continued.
(b) The Committee shall be composed
of the following, or a principal deputy,
593
