Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mined to take the lead in breaking the
wage and price spiral by holding Federal
pay increases down.
Last year Federal white-collar salaries
rose by more than 7 percent. I intend to
propose a limit of about 52 percent this
year, thereby setting the example for
labor and industry to moderate price and
wage increases.
This year I will also freeze the pay of
all executive appointees in the Federal
Government and members of my own
senior staff. I believe that those who are
most privileged in our Nation-including
other executives in government and also
in the private sector-should set a similar
example of restraint.
State and local governments employ
every seventh worker in our Nation, and
I've sent letters this week to every Gov-
ernor and to the mayors of our major
cities, asking that they follow the Federal
example and hold down their pay in-
creases.
I've also asked that if those govern-
ments plan to reduce taxes that they first
consider lowering sales taxes, which add
directly to the consumer's burden.
The Federal Government will take sev-
eral other steps to reduce inflation.
All executive branch agencies will
avoid or reduce the purchase of goods or
services whose prices are rapidly rising,
unless by so doing we would seriously
jeopardize our national security or create
serious unemployment. I'm also asking
that all new or renegotiated Federal con-
tracts which contain price escalation
clauses should reflect the principle of
deceleration.
We must cut the inflationary costs
which private industry bears as a result
of government regulations.
Last month I directed executive regu-
latory agencies under my control to mini-
mize the adverse economic consequences
of their own actions. I'm determined to
eliminate unnecessary regulations and to
ensure that future regulations do not im-
pose unnecessary costs to the American
economy. Our efforts to reorganize the
Federal bureaucracy and to streamline the
civil service, vitally important, will help
us put the Government's house in order.
I support "sunset" legislation to ensure
that we review these regulatory measures
and programs every few years and elimi-
nate or change those that have become
outdated.
I also urge congressional budget com-
mittees to report regularly to the Congress
on the inflationary effect of pending leg-
islation, much as the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers and the Council on Wage
and Price Stability do to me now.
The combined actions of my admin-
istration and the Civil Aeronautics Board
have already led to substantial cuts in
some airline passenger fees. Despite the
opposition of private interests, the airline
regulatory reform legislation must be en-
acted this year. We are also reexamining
excessive Federal regulation of the truck-
ing industry, an effort which may result
in increased efficiency while reducing
freight transportation costs and retail
prices.
In addition, I'm asking the independ-
ent regulatory agencies to try to reduce
inflation when they review rate changes
and to explore regulatory changes that
can make the regulated industries more
efficient.
Last fall, major new legislation was
passed which will improve economic con-
ditions for farm families, and we've an-
nounced additional administrative action
to raise farm income this year.
Unfortunately, the Senate has just
passed a bill that would raise food prices
by 3 percent and the overall cost of living
by four-tenths of 1 percent, would shat-
ter confidence in the crucial export mar-
kets for America's farm products, create
724
