June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
our current direction set forth in the
Space Act of 1958 is well founded and
that the preponderance of existing prob-
lems was related to interactions and re-
sultant stresses among the various space
programs. For this reason, the classified
portion of the recently signed Presiden-
tial directive concentrates on overlap
questions. It does not deal in detail with
the long-term objectives of our defense,
commercial, and civil programs. Deter-
mining our civil space policy, outlined
above, will be the next step.
As a result of this in-depth review, the
President's directive establishes national
policies to guide the conduct of United
States activities in and related to space
programs. The objectives are (1) to ad-
vance the interests of the United States
through the exploration and use of space
and (2) to cooperate with other nations
in maintaining the freedom of space for
all activities which enhance the security
and welfare of mankind. The space prin-
ciples set forth in this directive are:
-The United States will pursue space
activities to increase scientific knowledge,
develop useful commercial and Govern-
ment applications of space technology,
and maintain United States leadership in
space technology.
-The United States is committed to
the principles of the exploration and use
of outer space by all nations for peaceful
purposes and for the benefit of all man-
kind.
-The United States is committed to
property and have the right of passage
through and operations in space without
interference. Purposeful interference with
space systems shall be viewed as an in-
fringement upon sovereign rights.
-The United States will pursue activi-
ties in space in support of its right of self-
defense and thereby strengthen national
security, the deterrence of attack, and
arms control agreements.
-The United States will conduct in-
ternational cooperative space activities
that are beneficial to the United States
scientifically, politically, economically,
and/or militarily.
-The United States will develop and
operate on a global basis active and pas-
sive remote sensing operations in support
of national objectives.
-The United States will maintain
current responsibility and management
relationships among the various
space pro-
grams, and, as such, close coordination
and information exchange will be main-
tained among the space sectors to avoid
maximum cross-utilization of all capabil-
unnecessary duplication and to allow
ities.
Our civil space programs will be con-
ducted to increase the body of scientific
knowledge about the Earth and the uni-
verse; to develop and operate civil appli-
cations of space technology; to maintain
United States leadership in space science,
applications, and technology; and to fur-
ther United States domestic and foreign
the exploration and use of outer space in policy objectives within the following
support of its national well-being.
-The United States rejects any claims
to sovereignty over outer space or over
celestial bodies, or any portion thereof,
and rejects any limitations on the funda-
mental right to acquire data from space.
-The United States holds that the
space systems of any nation are national
guidelines:
-The United States will encourage do-
mestic commercial exploitation of space
capabilities and systems for economic
benefit and to promote the technological
position of the United States; however,
all United States Earth-oriented remote
sensing satellites will require United
1136
