Apr. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The hour is late with regard both to
Zimbabwe and to Namibia. The parties
must choose. They can choose a path of
agreement and be remembered as men of
vision and courage who created new na-
tions, born in peace, or they can insist on
rigid postures that will produce new polit-
ical complications, generating new con-
flicts, growing additional bloodshed, and
delay the fulfillment of their hopes.
We in the United States remain com-
mitted, as do the people of Nigeria, to the
path of genuine progress and fairness, for
the sake of all the nations of the region
and for the sake of international peace.
In the name of justice, we also believe
that South African society should and can
be transformed progressively and peace-
fully, with assured respect for the rights of
all. We've made it clear to South Africa
that the nature of our relations will de-
pend on whether there is progress towards
full participation for all her people, in
every respect of the social and economic
life of the nation, and an end to discrimi-
nation, an end to apartheid, based on race
or ethnic origin. We stand firm in that
message as well.
I grew up in a society struggling to find
racial harmony through racial justice.
Though our problems were different, I
know that progress can best be found if
the determination to see wrongs righted is
matched by an understanding that the
prisoners of injustice include the privi-
leged as well as the powerless.
I believe we should therefore combine
our determination to support the rights
of the oppressed people in South Africa
with a willingness to hold out our hands
to the white minority if they decide to
transform their society and to do away
with apartheid and the crippling burdens
of past injustices.
I also believe that progress can be made.
As Andrew Young said here in Lagos
last August, a belief in dreams for the
future is not naive if we are ready to work
to realize those dreams.
Our concern for human rights extends
throughout this continent and through-
out the world. Whatever the ideology or
the power or the race of a government
that abuses the rights of its people, we op-
pose those abuses.
We in America welcome the real prog-
ress in human rights that is being made
in many countries, in Africa as well as in
other regions.
Americans were particularly encour-
aged that the African group at the United
Nations Human Rights Commission
moved this year to consider the oppressive
policies of two of its own member nations.
We are encouraged, too, by the move-
ment towards democracy being made by
many nations. Nigeria is an outstanding
example. The free and fair elections that
you held in the past year leave no doubt
that your Government is determined to
pursue its decision to establish civilian rule
in 1979. This action will be an inspiration
to all those in the world who love democ-
racy and who love freedom. And we con-
gratulate you on this.
Each country must, of course, adapt the
instruments of democracy to fit its own
particular needs, a process now being
completed by your constituent assembly.
The basic elements are participation by
individuals in the decisions that affect
through the rule of law, and thus, pro-
their lives, respect for civil liberties
tection of the dignity of all men and
women.
Wherever these fundamental princi-
ples exist, a government can accommo-
date to necessary change without break-
ing, and its people can demand such
change without being broken.
These principles are necessary for
democracy, and they sustain development
as well. For in a democracy, the people
themselves can best ensure that their gov-
ernment will promote their economic
648
