Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Caracas March 28-29, 1978, at the in-
vitation of President Carlos Andrés Pérez.
The President and Mrs. Carter were ac-
companied by the Secretary of State and
Mrs. Cyrus Vance, Dr. Zbigniew Brze-
zinski, Assistant Secretary of State for In-
ter-American Affairs Terence A. Tod-
man, and Director of Policy Planning for
the Department of State W. Anthony
Lake.
The visit reflected the close relations
between Venezuela and the United States
and served to continue their dialogue ini-
tiated in 1977 on the occasion of the visits
which the Venezuelan President made to
Washington.
The two Presidents reaffirmed their
commitment to the preservation and
strengthening of democracy and placed
particular emphasis on the importance of
human rights as a duty of all societies and
their commitment to the charters of the
Organization of American States and the
United Nations. Both Presidents ex-
pressed the hope that the American Con-
vention on Human Rights will soon enter
into force and manifested their Govern-
ments' interest in seeing both the auton-
omy and resources of the Inter-American
Human Rights Commission increased,
agreeing in their belief that the Commis-
sion has an essential role to play in the
effective promotion of Human Rights in
the Hemisphere.
The Presidents discussed the ratifica-
tion of the Panama Canal treaties signed
at the OAS Headquarters in Washington
by the President of the United States of
America and the Head of Government of
Panama which is now being considered
by the Senate of the United States of
America. They expressed the hope that
the process will be successfully concluded
to strengthen a new spirit of cooperation
in the relations between the United States
of America and the Peoples of Latin
America.
The Heads of State examined the pre-
sent state of the world economy, including
the prospects for international coopera-
tion on the issues of development, trade,
basic commodities, energy, the effects of
inflation and the international monetary
system.
Both Presidents agree on the need for
an international code of conduct relating
to the activities of transnational corpora-
tions. They condemned the practice of
bribes and illicit payments and called for
support of an international convention on
illicit payments.
The Presidents reaffirmed the impor-
tance and the utility of additional con-
sultations within the context of the
North-South dialogue within the United
Nations and other world organizations.
They agreed on the importance of early
implementation of the commitments
made at the Conference of International
Economic Cooperation, in which Vene-
zuela played a leading role. Both Presi-
dents expressed their support for a more
just and equitable international system,
with both developed and developing
countries sharing responsibility for it.
The Presidents examined the world's
political situation and condemned the
presence of foreign forces in Africa. They
reiterated their condemnation of apart-
heid as an unacceptable negation of hu-
man rights. They expressed their total
support for the independence of Zim-
babwe in accordance with norms of the
United Nations and for the independence
of Namibia within the framework of
United Nations Resolution 385.
The Presidents exchanged views con-
cerning the situation in the Middle East
and deplored the recent violence which
occurred in that area. They agreed that it
is necessary and urgent to intensify efforts
to achieve a just, comprehensive and dur-
able peace based on UNSC Resolutions
242 and 338. They stressed the impor-
624
