Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 21
all academic levels and recommend de-
sirable levels and kinds of support for
each that should be provided by the pub-
lic and private sectors.
(4) Review existing legislative author-
ities and make recommendations for
changes needed
needed to carry out most
effectively the Commission's recommen-
dations.
SEC. 3. Administration. (a) To the ex-
tent authorized by law:
(1) All necessary expenses incurred in
connection with the work of the Com-
mission shall be paid from funds available
to the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
(2) The Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare may provide, or other-
wise obtain, appropriate professional,
technical, clerical and administrative per-
sonnel as may be necessary to enable the
Commission to perform its functions.
(3) Executive agencies shall assist or
otherwise cooperate with the Commission
in the performance of its functions.
(4) Each member of the Commission
who is not otherwise employed in the
Government may receive compensation at
the rate of $100.00 per day for each day
such member is engaged in the work of the
Commission, and may also receive travel
expenses, including per diem in lieu of
subsistence (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of
any other Executive order, the functions
of the President under the Federal Ad-
visory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I),
except that of reporting annually to the
Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission, shall be performed by the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare in accordance with guidelines and
procedures prescribed by the Administra-
tor of General Services.
SEC. 4. Termination and Final Report.
The Commission shall submit its final re-
port to the President not later than six
months after its first meeting and shall
terminate thirty days thereafter.
The White House,
April 21, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:19 p.m., April 21, 1978]
Human Rights Violations
in Cambodia
Statement by the President. April 21, 1978
America cannot avoid the responsi-
bility to speak out in condemnation of
the Cambodian Government, the worst
violator of human rights in the world
today. Thousands of refugees from Cam-
bodia have accused their Government of
inflicting death on hundreds of thousands
of the Cambodian people through the
genocidal policies it has implemented over
the past 3 years. Witnesses have re-
counted abuses that include mass killings,
inhuman treatment of the supporters of
the previous government, the forced de-
portation of urban dwellers, and the total
suppression of recognized political and
religious freedoms, as well as deprivation
of food and health care for the general
population. Summary executions continue
in Cambodia today, and fear of the au-
thorities is pervasive.
We
support the growing international
protest against the policies of this in-
humane regime. On April 17 the Cana-
dian House of Commons, in a unani-
mous motion, expressed the horror of all
its members in the acts of genocide car-
ried out in Cambodia and called on all
governments which maintain relations
with Canada to protest against the
slaughter.
In the private sphere, a Norwegian
committee supported by leaders of the
major Norwegian political parties will
767
