Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
understand will include a 12,500 seat
multipurpose arena, a parking area, and
a new lobby connected to this building. I
wonder if anybody in the room can guess
who started the Economic Development
Administration? That's right, Jennings
Randolph.
We rode in on an interstate highway.
I wonder if anybody can guess who had
the original idea for the Interstate High-
way System? Jennings Randolph.
And this is the kind of leadership I
think that will be pushed forward today.
Superblock is a fine example of a proper
working partnership between the Fed-
eral, State, and local levels of government
and the private sector in our great free
enterprise system. And I think it's a good
example of what can be done to revitalize
the urban areas of our Nation. Senator
Randolph, Congressman John Slack have
worked hard to make this joint develop-
ment possible. And they, along with local
officials and State officials, are providing
stimulus for Charleston's economy.
When I spoke to the Nation a year and
1 month ago, I called energy the most seri-
ous, continuing challenge that will face
our Nation in our lifetimes. I will leave
here and go back to Washington, and
without delay when I get there, I'll be
meeting tonight with the President of
France, Gisard d'Estaing. I'll be getting a
report from my National Security Adviser,
Zbigniew Brzezinski, who's just returned
from several days consultation with the
leaders of the People's Republic of China.
Tomorrow morning, if our present
plans go through, I'll be meeting with the
Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union,
Andre Gromyko, to talk about some
means by which our two great nations,
who are in competition, can live in peace
and so that we might, through a SALT
agreement, eliminate the threat of nuclear
destruction that faces us all if we are not
successful.
So, there is no incompatibility between
speaking in Springfield about govern-
ment leadership, meeting here with you
about our energy problem, discussing with
one of our major allies the strength of
NATO, and trying to discuss the future
peace in the entire world. These kinds of
subjects all have equal importance to
those of us charged with shaping the
future of the United States.
Energy is inexorably linked to our own
prosperity at home and also to our secu-
rity as a nation in the entire world, both of
which are imperiled by our great and
growing thirst for foreign oil.
Last year, out of the pockets of Ameri-
can working people, there was taken $45
billion which was spent to purchase oil
from foreign countries. We now import
about half of all the oil we use. Last April,
to dramatize the seriousness of this chal-
lenge, I compared it to war, and in this
war, the most formidable defense weapon
in our arsenal is coal.
West Virginia alone could supply all
the energy needs of our entire country
for more than a generation. And Appala-
chian coal fired the furnaces that made
this Nation a great industrial power. It
fueled the engines that first connected
from sea to sea the people who live in
the great land area of the United States.
It provides still much of our industrial
and electrical power, as you well know.
And ultimately, we will learn to harness
the energy of the Sun and the oceans
with fusion power to meet our energy
needs. But for now, we have no choice but
to continue to rely heavily on fossil fuels,
and coal is our most abundant fossil fuel.
Appalachian coal will be crucial for the
remainder of this century and beyond.
1003
