Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 9
United States Metric Board
Nomination of Bruce P. Johnson To Be a
Member. June 9, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Bruce P. Johnson, of
Reno, Nev., to be a member of the United
States Metric Board for a 2-year term.
Johnson, 39, is an associate professor of
electrical engineering at the University of
Nevada. He is a specialist in solid state
electronics and devices.
Washington Bullets
Basketball Team
Remarks at a White House Reception.
June 9, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Is the fat lady here? ยน
[Laughter]
I wish I had thought of that during the
1976 campaign. [Laughter] There were a
lot of times during 1976 when I thought
the ballgame might be over, at least other
people did. But I knew the fat lady had to
sing.
Well, it's a great honor for me as Presi-
dent of a wonderful country to share the
honor and glory by standing on the same
stage with a group of men and their sup-
porters and women who have exhibited
superb courage, because I think it's accu-
rate to say that at the beginning of the sea-
son, most commentators, most analysts
didn't think they could win the division
championship. I really wish that they
could have done it without beating At-
lanta, but-[laughter]-because Atlanta
1 The President was referring to the remark,
"The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings,'
which was made by Bullets Coach Dick Motta
following the fifth game of the Philadelphia-
Washington series.
has gone more than 42 years without a
championship.
But it is a great pleasure for me to have
all of you here and Wes, and Mr. Pollin,
and all of the team. I've been cautioned
not to single out any particular player, be-
cause I think one of the things that made
this remarkable success possible is the fact
that it was not built upon a single person.
There are obviously stars, and there are
obviously those who show that they are the
most valuable player in a particular game
or even in the great series. But what made
this tremendous victory possible for the
Bullets is the fact that it was a team
effort. And I think that's the basis of a
sound, unconquerable spirit that bound
them all together.
The team was not fragmented or
driven apart by jealousy, nor by an exces-
sive desire for personal recognition. But
all the way through there was a realization
that only through a common effort and a
team effort could this remarkable victory
be successful.
The last time Washington had a cham-
pion was when Franklin Roosevelt was
President. And this is really a hope that
I might have brought good luck to Wash-
ington. [Laughter]
In my desire to be fair, I might say that
I have a great respect for Seattle. I know
you all do also. And at least Seattle has a
racehorse named after them-[laugh-
ter]-s
-so they have something to compen-
sate for it.
But I want to express my admiration on
the part of the whole United States for the
remarkable achievement that the Bullets
represent. And I know that everyone in
our country, no matter what basketball
team they may have supported at the be-
ginning of the season, share my admira-
tion and my appreciation for this remark-
able achievement.
1069
