Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 29
We recognize our differences, but we can-
not allow them to blind us to the problems
and the tremendous opportunities which
we share.
When I was growing up in the Deep
South of the United States, we farmed ex-
actly as our grandfathers had farmed, ris-
ing before dawn and laboring manually
until sunset. We had no tractors and little
machinery of any kind, and even as we
worked, we often knew that we were re-
ducing our future yields, that the richness
of our land was blowing away in the
wind or washing away in the rains.
When we farmed out our land, we had
no choice but to keep on farming it and
working in the same fields, because many
of us lacked the knowledge or the means
to make it fruitful again.
I remember the almost unbelievable
change the coming of electric power made
in the farm life of my childhood. Elec-
tricity freed us from the continuing bur-
dens of pumping water and sawing wood
and lighting fires in the cooking stove. But
it did even more—it gave us light by
which to read and to study at night. It
gave us power-not just to perform the
old exhausting tasks, but power to make
our own choices. Because electric power
came to us through cooperatives, in which
we all had to share the responsibility for
a decision, it changed our lives in other
ways.
Farmers began to meet together to dis-
cuss local needs and national issues and
to decide how to influence government
and to negotiate with large, far-off com-
panies that provided their supplies. I've
seen the farm life that I knew in my child-
hood transformed by energy and by tech-
nology and increased knowledge, and by
the opportunity to participate in the de-
cisions that affect ourselves and our
families.
I can understand the unfulfilled yearn-
ings of other people in developing na-
tions to share these blessings of life. All
nations must work together to acknowl-
edge the validity of these yearnings, to
take into full account the need and di-
versity of developing nations, and to pro-
mote mutual participation in making the
international decisions that affect us all.
I've spoken to you of shared obli-
gations. The industrial nations must pro-
vide long-term capital and reduced trade
barriers. The developing nations must as-
sume the obligations that accompany re-
sponsible participation in an evolving
world economy.
Real progress will come through spe-
cific, cooperative actions designed to meet
specific needs-not through symbolic
statements made by the rich industrial
nations to salve our conscience, nor by
the developing countries to recall past in-
justices. We need to share a responsibility
for solving problems and not to divide
the blame for ignoring the problems.
I believe that your great country and
mine share a vision of an international
system in which each individual and each
nation has a part, in which each individ-
ual and each nation has the hope of a
better future. Only in such a world can
life be good for all its people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 a.m. in the
Senate Chamber of the Congress. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to President of the
Congress Gonzalo Barrios and Vice President
of the Congress Dagoberto Gonzalez.
Following his remarks, the President pro-
ceeded to the Palacio de Miraflores for meet-
ings with President Pérez.
Caracas, Venezuela
Joint Communique Issued at the Conclusion
of Meetings Between President Carter and
President Pérez. March 29, 1978
The President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Jimmy Carter visited
623
