Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 28
this generous and symbolic act, you have
signaled to the world your concern.
This cedar, which is so much cele-
brated in Scripture, has become a symbol
of strength and timelessness. Today this
cedar, which provides so much inspira-
tion to us as Americans, is a symbol of
hope to free people everywhere. We plant
this tree in the fertile soil of our land and
hope that it takes root in its adopted
country as did our forefathers. Let it be a
constant reminder of their success in
becoming part of the American dream.
Let it be a constant remembrance of the
traditional ties between the United States
and Lebanon, and let it be a living
memorial that righteousness and justice in
the pursuit of human rights are indeed
enduring virtues.
Today, Mr. President, the Lebanese
people are struggling to preserve their
democracy and their freedom and retain
a society of genuine pluralism. As a re-
sult, their human rights have been vio-
lated in a serious and significant way.
We express our gratitude to you, Mr.
President, for your leadership in the ac-
tion taken by the United Nations in form-
ing the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon,
UNIFIL. We hope this will lead and ex-
pect it to lead to the ability of Lebanon
to be the sole authority within its borders.
We look to you, Mr. President, for con-
National Transportation
Safety Board
Nomination of Francis H. McAdams To Be a
Member. April 28, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Francis H. McAdams, of
Washington, D.C., for reappointment as
a member of the National Transportation
Safety Board for a term expiring Decem-
ber 31, 1982.
McAdams was born December 27, 1915,
in Brooklyn, N.Y. He holds A.B., LL.B.,
and LL.M. degrees from Georgetown
University. He served in the U.S. Navy
from 1942 to 1946.
From 1946 to 1948, McAdams was a
corporate and trial attorney for Capital
Airlines, and from 1948 to 1951, he was
an attorney-trial examiner and air safety
investigator for the Civil Aeronautics
Board. From 1951 to 1954, he was senior
trial attorney for the Civil Aeronautics
Board.
From 1954 to 1958, McAdams prac-
ticed law in Chicago. He was executive
assistant and legal adviser to the Chair-
man of the Civil Aeronautics Board from
1958 until 1967, when he became one of
the original members of the National
Transportation Safety Board.
tinued leadership for a stable Lebanon, Territory of Guam
which we believe is the key to Middle East
peace.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:16 p.m. at
the Southwest Jefferson Mound on the South
Grounds. Also participating in the ceremony
were Lebanese Ambassador to the United States
Najati Kabbani, and Paul A. Corey, president,
and Dr. Elias T. Saadi, chairman of the board
of the Americn Lebanese League, which had
presented the cedar to the President.
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Territory's Proposed Constitution.
April 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
Section 5 of the Act of October 21, 1976
(Public Law 94-584), I am hereby trans-
mitting for the consideration of the Con-
gress a proposed constitution for the Ter-
ritory of Guam. The constitution, drafted
by a territorial constitutional convention,
795
