Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 25
this country now places on the middle
class? And if you do think it's unfair, then
why are you so insistent on pushing tax
reforms that most people believe are go-
ing to hit the middle class the worst and
on resisting a rollback in social security
taxes that would also penalize the middle
class?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer
your last question first.
One of the things that we had to do
last year was to bring the social security
system out of near bankruptcy into a
sound economic position. Two of the three
major reserve funds for the social security
were on the verge of bankruptcy, and the
Congress had to increase the social se-
curity payments to keep the social security
system sound. They acted courageously
and properly in that respect.
In order to make sure that the taxpayers
in all categories, with very few exceptions,
have a net reduction in their taxes this
year, even after paying increased social
security benefits, that's where the tax re-
duction proposal comes in.
If the Congress should not act in ac-
cordance with my request and lower in-
come taxes, then there would be a net in-
crease in taxes paid by the middle-income
groups.
Another factor that has not yet been
adequately publicized is that those very
people who pay high income taxes, those
$20, $25, $30,000 citizens having that
much income per year, will also get
greater benefits when they retire. So, in
a way it's kind of an investment for them.
We have a lot of abuses in the system
that ought to be eliminated. Last year, for
instance, one medical doctor, a surgeon,
owns a yacht, and he took a $14,000 tax
credit, tax exemption, for entertaining
other doctors on his yacht. This is legal
under the present law. Most American
citizens don't have a yacht, and when they
go for a small pleasure ride, if they do
have a small boat, they can't deduct it as
an income tax deduction. And when that
doctor didn't pay his $14,000 in taxes,
other average, working American families
had to pay his taxes for him.
We've another instance that I recall
from the statistics I've read, that one busi-
nessman charged off 338 lunches last
year, more than $10,000 in so-called busi-
ness lunches, more than many American
families make in all. And the average,
working American had to pay that guy's
taxes for him. I think that's a gross abuse
of the average American family. And
that's the kind of corrections that we're
trying to put in.
On Capitol Hill now there is concen-
trated an unbelievable number of highly
qualified, very intelligent, very effective
lobbyists trying to induce the Members of
Congress to preserve those special privi-
leges for people who have them because
they are so powerful and so influential,
now and in the past, that they could
carve out for themselves some special
deal in the income tax laws of our coun-
try at the expense of the average Amer-
ican family. That's where tax reform
comes in.
So, tax reduction is important to make
sure we don't put an extra tax burden on
our people, even counting social security.
Tax reform is necessary to let our tax code
be simple and fair for a change. Both
those changes, both those recommenda-
tions are urgently needed.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's thirtieth news con-
ference began at 3 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
783
