Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
My Administration has welcomed
Prime Minister Ecevit's declared inten-
tion to move forward on the Cyprus issue,
and we have expressed our readiness to
give full support to the initiatives of the
Secretary General. Secretary Vance
stopped in Ankara and Athens on Janu-
ary 20-22, following a visit to the Middle
East, and held very useful discussions on
a number of subjects, including Cyprus.
The Secretary returned from these discus-
sions convinced that both the govern-
ments of Turkey and Greece earnestly de-
sired to work towards a Cyprus settle-
ment.
The Turkish Cypriots, assisted by the
Government of Turkey, are now prepar-
ing detailed constitutional and territorial
proposals that could serve as a basis for
resumed intercommunal negotiations.
Our understanding is that these proposals
may be completed sometime in March,
and that negotiations between the two
communities could be resumed by the
Secretary General sometime thereafter.
Toward that end, the Administration has
recently urged the Turkish Cypriot lead-
ership and the government of Turkey to
develop proposals that are sufficiently sub-
stantive and forthcoming to form a basis
for genuine negotiation. We have at the
same time encouraged the Government
of Cyprus to regard the new Turkish pro-
posals, together with the proposals tabled
by President Makarios last year, as a basis
for initiating a round of intensive, good-
faith negotiations which can lead to a
narrowing of differences.
I strongly hope that productive Cyprus
negotiations will be reconvened very soon.
I am sure that all who wish to see peace,
justice, and stability in Cyprus and in the
eastern Mediterranean share this hope.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 23, 1978.
Ohio River Valley Water
Sanitation Commission
Appointment of John C. White as a United
States Commissioner. March 23, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of John C. White, of Atlanta,
Ga., as a Commissioner representing the
United States Government on the Ohio
River Valley Water Sanitation Commis-
sion.
White, 48, is Regional Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency
for Region IV in Atlanta. He joined EPA
when the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Administration (FWPCA) was in-
corporated into EPA in 1970. He has
been with the FWPCA since 1966.
Improving Government
Regulations
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12044.
March 23, 1978
I think this is the first time in history
that a Presidential Executive order has
been circulated for comment before it was
issued, and the comments have been very
constructive. We received some very care-
ful and helpful comments from more than
350 people, and I think this is indicative
of the interest that is shown in this partic-
ular action on my part.
This is also the first time that the exec-
utive branch, so far as I know, has at-
tempted in a fundamental way to im-
prove the Government regulatory process
by making regulations simpler, less bur-
densome, and by giving the public a
chance to be involved in a critique of the
effectiveness of regulations, which quite
often have the far-reaching effect of law
and quite often are not as carefully con-
sidered as a legal act by the Congress.
556
