Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
about $2 billion to consumers' purchas-
ing power that will be realized princi-
pally through lower prices.
Business taxes will be reduced by more
than $8 billion in 1979 under my tax pro-
gram, offset partially by more than $2
billion in business tax reforms for a net
tax reduction of nearly $6 billion. I have
recommended that the overall corporate
tax rate be reduced on October 1 from
the current 48 percent to 45 percent, and
be cut further to 44 percent in 1980. I
also recommend that the existing 10-per-
cent investment tax credit be made per-
manent, and that the benefits of this credit
be extended to investments in industrial
and utility structures. My proposal will
enable businesses to use the investment tax
credit to offset up to 90 percent of their
Federal tax liability, compared with the
50-percent limit now imposed.
Important new tax reforms also will
affect businesses. I am, for example, pro-
posing to reduce the deductibility of a
large class of business entertainment ex-
penses. I have also proposed changes in
the tax status of international business
transactions that are of significant cost to
taxpayers but that benefit the public in-
sufficiently.
Because tax reform measures will raise
$9 billion in revenue, it has been possible
for me to recommend $34 billion in over-
all tax reductions while keeping the net
loss in revenues to $25 billion, the level I
believe is appropriate given the state of
our economy and the size of the budget
deficit.
These proposals do not include any ad-
justment to take account of congressional
action on my energy proposals. I pro-
posed last April that the Congress pass
a wellhead tax and rebate the proceeds
of that tax directly to the American peo-
ple. This is the best course to follow be-
cause it protects the real incomes of con-
sumers and avoids a new source of fiscal
drag. If the final energy bill includes a
full rebate of the net proceeds of the
wellhead tax, no further action on my
part will be necessary. However, if the
final bill allows for a rebate only for
1978-as provided in the House version-
I will send a supplemental message to
the Congress recommending that the in-
dividual tax reduction I am now pro-
posing be increased by the amount of the
net proceeds of the wellhead tax.
These tax reductions are essential to
healthy economic recovery during 1978
and 1979. Prospects for continuation of
that recovery in the near term are favor-
able. Consumers have been spending
freely, and many other economic indi-
cators recently have been moving up
strongly. Without the tax reductions I
have proposed, however, the longer-term
prospects for economic growth would be-
come increasingly poor. Because of the
fiscal drag imposed by rising payroll taxes
and inflation, economic growth would
slow substantially in late 1978, and fall
to about 32 percent in 1979. The un-
employment rate would stop declining
and might begin to rise again, and the
growth of investment outlays for new
plant and equipment would slow signifi-
cantly.
With the reductions in taxes I have
proposed, on the other hand, the economy
should grow by 42 to 5 percent in both
1978 and 1979. Nearly one million new
jobs would be created. Unemployment
would therefore continue to fall and by
late 1979 should be down to around 5½
to 6 percent. Capacity utilization and
after-tax business profits would both im-
prove, and thus the rate of investment in
new plants and equipment should in-
crease significantly.
135
