Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
simplified as a result of the Tax Reduc-
tion and Simplification Act which I pro-
posed and Congress enacted last year. The
short form 1040A has been reduced from
25 lines to 15 lines. Form 1040 has been
restructured so that it can be completed
more systematically. Tax tables have been
revised to reduce arithmetic computations.
The language of the tax forms and the
instructions has been made more under-
standable.
The simplification efforts that were be-
gun in 1977 will be continued and ex-
panded in the tax program I am present-
ing today. The replacement of the exist-
ing personal exemption and general tax
credits by the $240 personal credit will
simplify return preparation for taxpayers
and enable millions of individuals at or
below the poverty level to file no tax re-
turn. Changes in itemized deductions
(which will be more than offset by the
rate cuts) will increase the number of
nonitemizers to 84 percent of all taxpay-
ers. Six million Americans will be able to
switch to the standard deduction and
avoid keeping detailed records for tax
purposes. The preparation of returns by
itemizers will be simplified, and the tax
program will reduce recordkeeping bur-
dens on small businesses.
BUSINESS AND ANTI-INFLATION TAX
REDUCTIONS
Our Nation's employment and anti-
inflation goals cannot be met without a
strengthening of private business invest-
ment. In recent years, capital spending in
the United States has been inadequate.
Capacity growth in manufacturing has
declined from a growth rate of about 4.5
percent during the period 1948-1969, to
3.5 percent from 1969-1973, and to 3
percent from 1973-1976. Real business
fixed investment in the third quarter of
1977 was 5 percent below its 1974 peak.
In order to encourage needed capital
outlays in the period ahead, my tax pro-
gram
contains annual net business tax re-
ductions of approximately $6 billion. The
corporate tax rate will be reduced on
October 1, 1978 from 20 percent to 18
percent on the first $25,000 of income and
from 22 percent to 20 percent on the sec-
ond $25,000-this will result in a 10 per-
cent reduction in tax liability for most
small corporations. The tax rate for large
corporations will be cut from 48 percent to
45 percent on October 1, 1978 and to 44
percent on January 1, 1980.
I also recommend several important
changes in the existing 10 percent invest-
ment tax credit: the 10 percent credit
should be made permanent; liberalized to
cover up to 90 percent of tax liability;
made fully applicable to qualified pollu-
tion control facilities; and extended to in-
vestments in industrial and utility struc-
tures (including rehabilitation of existing
structures). These changes should be par-
ticularly beneficial to developing busi-
nesses that are seeking to expand their
productive facilities and should help to in-
crease expenditures for the construction of
new factories.
The corporate rate reductions and ex-
tensions of the investment tax credit
which I am proposing will encourage cap-
ital formation by providing an immediate
increase in cash flow to business and by
enhancing the after-tax rewards of invest-
ment.
All small businesses will receive signifi-
cant cuts in their tax rates under my pro-
gram: reducing the bottom as well as the
top corporate rates will be of special ben-
efit to small corporations; small business
proprietorships and partnerships will
benefit from the individual rate cuts. In
addition to these tax reductions, my pro-
gram will simplify the depreciation rules
applicable to small business and liberalize
162
