Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
ency, we don't have an opportunity for
black reporters to participate in your
press conferences. Very seldom are they
given an opportunity to ask you a ques-
tion.
And then the final question, I want to
thank you on behalf of District employees,
as far as coming out for home rule. How
do you envision our getting full voting
privileges here in our Nation's Capital?
Do you have any predictions of what we
could do?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first
place, if you need to contact the White
House itself, Bunny is the proper one to
call. Or if there's a matter that relates to
domestic affairs, to Stu Eizenstat; if a
matter relates to employment opportuni-
ties, it would be the EEOC [Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission]; and
if it relates to transportation, obviously
you'd call the Secretary of Transporta-
tion.
I don't mean that whatever problem
comes up that you have to call the White
House to get it done. I think the best ap-
proach would be for you to call the mem-
ber of the Cabinet who's responsible for
that particular function. And I hope that
after today all of you will know at least
fairly clearly which department has
which responsibility. Obviously, housing
and urban development would come
under Pat Harris; the Commerce Depart-
ment administers the local public works
programs and the EDA programs, and
that would be Juanita Kreps. Anything
related to transportation would be Brock
Adams; and anything related to health,
education, and welfare, Joe Califano.
I think the first preference would be
for you to go to the Cabinet. I should
have made that clear.
Bunny is my staff person in the White
House. I have seven senior staff members.
She is one of the seven, and we have a
very small staff support here at the White
House. We don't have a Haldeman-
Ehrlichman. You don't have to go
through the White House to get to a per-
son who's administering a specific pro-
gram.
Since you live in the District, quite
often your people will be Federal employ-
ees and might be complaining about equal
employment opportunity. Eleanor Holmes
Norton would be the one to contact di-
rectly on that.
If you don't get satisfaction though at
the Cabinet level, then I would welcome
you calling the White House directly.
The question about voting rights in the
District-we have endorsed this full rep-
resentation for the District of Columbia.
The hearings are now going on, I think,
in the House Judiciary Committee. As
you know, it would require a constitu-
tional amendment to authorize the Dis-
trict of Columbia to be treated in the Con-
gress as a State. The District of Columbia
would not be a State, but it would have
two Senators and the equivalent number
of House Members, depending upon its
population, which is growing.
We support this fully, and the mem-
bers of my Cabinet, including the Attor-
ney General, are testifying in favor of the
need for this.
As far as the black reporters being rec-
ognized at press conferences, I don't know
many of the names of the reporters who
serve on the White House press pool. I
know we had a reception for them Christ-
mas; we had, I think, 1,400 people who
came. There are hundreds of them. And
I try to do the best I can to spread the
questions around. But one black reporter
that I call on every now and then is Ed
Bradley with CBS. And I try to spread my
questions around.
Q. We'll give you the names of our
black-owned newspapers. [Laughter] Ed
Bradley is with CBS.
321
