Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mission. The function of being co-chair-
man of the Interagency Committee on
Handicapped Employees now vested in
the Chairman of the Civil Service Com-
mission pursuant to Section 501 is hereby
transferred to the Chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.
SECTION 5. Transfer of Public Sector
707 Functions.
Any function of the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission concern-
ing initiation of litigation with respect to
State or local government, or political
subdivisions under Section 707 of Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, (42 U.S.C. 2000e-6) and all
necessary functions related thereto, in-
cluding investigation, findings, notice and
an opportunity to resolve the matter with-
out contested litigation, are hereby trans-
ferred to the Attorney General, to be exer-
cised by him in accordance with proce-
dures consistent with said Title VII. The
Attorney General is authorized to dele-
gate any function under Section 707 of
said Title VII to any officer or employee
of the Department of Justice.
SECTION 6. Transfer of Functions and
Abolition of the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Coordinating Council.
All functions of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Coordinating Council,
which was established pursuant to Sec-
tion 715 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2000e-14), are
hereby transferred to the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission. The
Equal Employment Opportunity Coordi-
nating Council is hereby abolished.
SECTION 7. Savings Provision.
Administrative proceedings including
administrative appeals from the acts of
an executive agency (as defined by Sec-
tion 105 of Title 5 of the United States
Code) commenced or being conducted by
or against such executive agency will not
abate by reason of the taking effect of this
Plan. Consistent with the provisions of
this Plan, all such proceedings shall con-
tinue before the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission otherwise un-
affected by the transfers provided by this
Plan. Consistent with the provisions of
this Plan, the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission shall accept appeals
from those executive agency actions
which occurred prior to the effective date
of this Plan in accordance with law and
regulations in effect on such effective
date. Nothing herein shall affect any right
of any person to judicial review under
applicable law.
SECTION 8. Incidental Transfers.
So much of the personnel, property,
records and unexpended balances of ap-
propriations, allocations and other funds
employed, used, held, available, or to be
made available in connection with the
functions transferred under this Plan, as
the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget shall determine, shall
be transferred to the appropriate depart-
ment, agency, or component at such time
or times as the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall provide,
except that no such unexpended balances
transferred shall be used for purposes
other than those for which the appropria-
tion was originally made. The Director
of the Office of Management and Budget
shall provide for terminating the affairs
of the Council abolished herein and for
such further measures and dispositions as
such Director deems necessary to effectu-
ate the purposes of this Reorganization
Plan.
SECTION 9. Effective Date.
This Reorganization Plan shall become
effective at such time or times, on or be-
fore October 1, 1979, as the President
shall specify, but not sooner than the
earliest time allowable under Section 906
of Title 5 of the United States Code.
406
