Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
dominant nation as far as the Arab world
goes-with the Saudi Arabians—who are
not part of the negotiating process, but
who have a very good moderating influ-
ence with King Hussein, and just isolate
ourselves with a bilateral relationship
with Israel, it would almost prevent any
further, future progress on peace.
So, our commitment is to continue, in
spite of constant discouragement, in spite
of political costs, to move toward a resolu-
tion of the issue.
I think when Sadat went to Jerusalem,
that Begin responded with a very good
proposal, which was a step in the right
direction, a basis for good negotiations—
how to withdraw from the Sinai, how to
have some negotiations about home rule,
so-called, for the West Bank, Gaza Strip
area.
We are not trying to impose a settle-
ment, but we'll still have active negotia-
tions going on, getting a message from the
Israelis, delivering it to the Egyptians-
they're always disappointed-getting a
message from Sadat, delivering it back to
the Israelis—they're always disappointed.
We're kind of an unappreciated post-
man going back and forth between leaders
who tried to open a door at the end of last
year and have now seen the door closed
again.
commitment to giving them adequate
provisions to defend themselves.
Prime Minister Begin, I think, shares
what I've just said to you, and I don't
believe that Sadat would disagree with a
word of it. But there need be no concern
among the Israeli people nor among Jews
in this country that our Nation has
changed or turned away from Israel. It
was a difficult vote, but I think it was an
honoring of past commitments. And if we
had violated our Nation's word of honor
to provide that modest amount of military
capability to those two Arab countries, I
think we would have driven them away
from us permanently and driven perma-
nently away any prospect for peace in the
Middle East, which we pray for and which
I'm determined to pursue until the last
day I'm in the White House.
I believe we still have a good chance for
success.
SPEAKER REDMOND. Senator Glass.
LABOR LAW REFORM
SENATOR GLASS. Thank you, Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. President, lest you leave Illinois
with the feeling that all members of the
chamber share the views of my esteemed
colleague on the other side of the aisle
I believe that the confidence that Egypt regarding the labor reform act, let me as-
now has that we are concerned about their
security, not against Israel—the F-5E's
are no match for the Israeli Air Force-
but against their other neighbors, who are
on the continent of Africa, I think, is a
very sound insurance policy that in the fu-
ture Sadat will trust me enough and trust
our Nation enough to continue to nego-
tiate in good faith, even when the Syrians,
the Iraqis, the Libyans, and others are
castigating him for keeping the peace
doors open.
And I believe that Israel can rest as-
sured that there will never be any devia-
tion in our own country, of our total
sure you that only is not true, but I and,
I think, a number of others feel it would
be one of the most dangerous and disas-
trous pieces of legislation for our free
enterprise system as it exists today. And I
don't intend to belabor the point, because
you have stated your position on the bill,
but I would like to be specific about it.
There is a provision in the bill that
would require blacklisting of businesses
who have violated the terms of the act.
And as I understand it, that would pro-
hibit the Federal Government from en-
gaging with those firms in signing con-
tracts with them.
993
