Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
velopment in your smaller communities,
all of which involve an overall EDA in-
vestment of about $7 million.
You and the other people in Portland
are demonstrating what I strongly be-
lieve, that a cooperative partnership
among Federal, State, and local govern-
ments and private business is the best way
to generate the economic growth and the
job opportunities that our communities
need.
I'm proud of what we've done so far.
It demonstrates that government can
work. It demonstrates the strength of the
American economy, something that's
often forgotten. And I think it's good for
all of us to be boosters not only of our own
local communities but of our Nation.
I think a large part of some of our
economic problems are caused by people
always talking about the transient prob-
lems that we experience and not remem-
bering that our Nation is the strongest,
most dynamic, the most highly blessed by
God of any nation on Earth. We have an
underlying strength that's unshakable.
So, we can weather the transient problems
that we've faced, if we continue to work
together.
That's what I'm committed to do.
And with your help, we'll continue to
see Portland one of the finest places to live
in all the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. in the
Pavilion Room at the Portland Hilton Hotel.
Portland, Oregon
Informal Exchange With Reporters Upon De-
parture From the Olson Residence.
May 5, 1978
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
Q. Is there anything new in the world
going on, Mr. President, that we should
know about?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know of any-
thing. I tried to read the news this morn-
ing. [Laughter]
SOUTH AFRICAN RAID IN ANGOLA
Q. What do you think of the South
African invasion now?
Q. Did you ever find out about that
South African thing?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I got a report last
night from Dr. Brzezinski in one of his
briefings and Secretary Vance. I think
you all know that the South Africans
claim that it was just a retaliatory raid
against the SWAPO forces who had in-
vaded Namibia with small strikes, and
they've claimed to have withdrawn and
have not left any South African forces in
Angola.
So we hope it's just a transient strike in
retaliation, and we hope it's all over.
We've expressed our concern to the South
African Government and asked them for
an explanation.
PRESIDENT'S TRIP TO WESTERN STATES
Q. How would you sum up your trip
out here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think its been
good. It has been a well-prepared trip.
I'll be meeting this morning with
mayors and county officials from Idaho
and Alaska, the State of Washington,
Oregon, just to talk to them about how we
can implement better some of the pro-
grams that we've got going on, particu-
larly urban policy programs and some of
the new housing programs we've put into
effect, and to learn from them how well
we are progressing on holding job oppor-
tunities open.
I think we've tried to form, through
Jack Watson and the Cabinet members,
a much closer relationship between us, in
Washington, and the State and local of-
ficials, and in doing so, we hope that there
855
