Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
I did. He recommended by brother, Billy,
as Ambassador to the Vatican. [Laughter]
I couldn't take this advice for several
reasons that I won't describe tonight.
But when he made the second recom-
mendation, I decided to take it. He said
he had a first cousin who was quite knowl-
edgeable about Europe, and when I began
my trip in January to the Eastern Euro-
pean countries, he said his cousin spoke
excellent Polish and would be [laugh-
ter]-
Well, you can see the reason for the
sound relationship that I have formed
with Bob Strauss, a great Texan. [Laugh-
ter] And he represents our country well.
He doesn't create much problem overseas.
Prime Minister Fukuda did come by to
see me the last time he was in Washington
and said that Bob Strauss was causing him
some problems, that he had gotten the
majority of the members of the Japanese
Diet to vote for the Japanese state patrol-
men to leave their Hondas and ride
Harley-Davidson motorcycles. [Laughter]
But I think all of you would agree that
in the finest sense of the word, that Bob
Strauss represents Texas and the United
States and the Democratic Party in a
superlative way.
I hate to go to the next Cabinet meet-
ing, because I'm just getting him back for
the last few that I've been to with him—
he always gets the best end of the deal.
The first time I met Bob Strauss and
had a chance to talk with him, he said that
the Democratic Party was a crumbling
coalition held together by two things-its
debts and Texans. [Laughter]
The last part might still be true, but
I can tell you that Bob Strauss and John
White have done a great deal to remove
the ties that bind us together because of
overwhelming debts. We have now re-
forged historic old alliances, and our party
has been reinvigorated because we are a
party with plans, with programs, and with
unchanging ideals. Our country might be
able to get along without Texas oil or
Texas agricultural products, even for a
while without Texas income taxes, but
we could never get along without Texas
brainpower and Texas political leader-
ship.
Democrats from your State in this cen-
tury have been remarkable for their su-
perb leadership
leadership qualities-two great
Speakers of the House, John Nance Gar-
ner and Sam Rayburn; two Vice Presi-
dents, one of whom was John Nance
Garner; and the hardest working Presi-
dent and one of the most successful Pres-
idents that the United States has ever
known, Lyndon Baines Johnson.
Since I began my work in the Oval Of-
fice I've made a point to study in my spare
time the history, the biographies of those
who have served our country in the same
position. In some ways, this is a lonely
job. And as I've analyzed the place in the
evolution of our country that different
predecessors of mine will fill, I've been
increasingly impressed with what Presi-
dent Johnson did in a time of great up-
heaval, sorrow, division. The strength of
his leadership held our country together.
And he was able, from the most powerful
position on Earth, to reach his hand and
his heart effectively to those who were
poor, who were black, who didn't speak
English well, who were not well educated,
who were inarticulate, who had little
power or little prestige or little influence,
and he aroused the conscience of a great
nation.
He pointed out to us our failures and
our defects and, through his concerted and
effective work, did not only arouse the
American people but aroused the Con-
gress, had passed into law the civil rights
acts, the voting act that has given Amer-
icans a final realization of what our Con-
stitution long guaranteed, but for a long
time did not see fulfilled. And as a Presi-
1167
