Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 28
lost my early conviction that the noblest
task of government is education. In this
task, the Federal Government must be a
strong and reliable partner for the State
and local governments.
There are three major elements in my
education proposals to Congress for this
year.
First, I've asked Congress to work with
me in creating a Cabinet-level depart-
ment of education, as was promised dur-
ing the campaign. Education is far too
important a matter to be scattered piece-
meal among various Government depart-
ments and agencies, which are often busy
with sometimes dominant concerns. We
must pull our education programs to-
gether if we are to assure them of the full
attention that they deserve.
Secondly, I recently proposed a plan to
Congress that would make financial help
available each year to 2 million more col-
lege students than are now eligible. Col-
lege costs have gone up 77 percent in the
last 10 years, a burden on many low- and
middle-income families that we must help
to ease.
No able student should be denied a col-
lege education because a family cannot
afford it. My proposals now being con-
sidered by Congress will bring us closer
to making this a reality.
Today, as the third element in this
year's educational program, I'm sending
Congress my major legislative proposals
on elementary and secondary education.
Altogether, we are seeking for next year
an increase over this year's spending of
26 percent and a total increase of 46 per-
cent-$4 billion increase in these 2 fiscal
years.
These much needed, additional funds
for elementary and secondary education
are the largest proposed by any President
since the creation of the program by
President Johnson and the Congress more
than 10 years ago.
Most of these changes will let us chan-
nel Federal funds more efficiently, effec-
tively, and directly to those so often short-
changed in our educational system be-
cause of social problems or because of
poverty.
Today's proposals also will focus our
Nation's resources in helping our children
master the basic skills, often in recent
years neglected-reading, writing, and
arithmetic-which remain critical to
their ability to function in a complex
society.
We must do a better job of teaching
these basic skills to all our children. We
cannot fail to make the best use of our
primary weapon against ignorance and
lack of opportunity-our schools. As we
improve our elementary and secondary
school system, all Americans will benefit.
Now the Vice President has a state-
ment, and Secretary Califano. We have
a group of key congressional leaders. Joe
Califano will explain that some who were
going to be here this morning, who sup-
port the program very strongly, are work-
ing hard in the House and Senate on the
first two elements that I described to you.
And I'd like to introduce now, the Vice
President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:32 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following the President's re-
marks, Vice President Walter F. Mondale spoke
and then introduced Secretary of Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.,
who held a news conference on the proposals.
423
