Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 12
pressed our concern to the Soviets in very
strong terms.
We have shared the concerns that we
feel with the leaders that I have visited,
both the cumulative group of countries
that join with us in the NATO alliance,
and specifically with France, the Middle
Eastern countries, and India. We've had
unanimous response from them sharing
our concern about the Soviet Union's un-
warranted involvement in Africa. I am
very concerned about the loss of life now.
Our hope is that the Somalians might
call publicly for negotiations to begin im-
mediately to resolve the Ogaden dispute.
One possibility, of course, would be to go
to the Security Council of the United Na-
tions or to the permanent members of
the Security Council. But the basic nego-
tiation ought to take place between those
two nations themselves.
So, I think that there are things that
we can do to express our concern pub-
licly, to offer our good services in support
of the African nations who are responsi-
ble, to support the Organization of Afri-
can Unity, and in the United Nations to
let our voice be heard. But I hope that we
can induce the Soviets and the Cubans
not to send either soldiers or weapons
into that area and call for and achieve a
rapid initiation of negotiations.
INTEREST RATES
Q. Mr. President, on another subject,
will Miller, as head of the Fed, mean
lower interest rates?
The President. Well, I want lower
interest rates, and I know the Fed does
also, I'm sure, including Chairman Burns
and certainly William Miller, who will
be Chairman in the future, I hope.
We have here a problem in stabilizing
the value of the dollar, which is the basis
for most international trade on the one
hand, of preventing excessive inflation,
which is compatible with that, and still
having interest rates low enough to en-
courage businesses to invest in stocks, to
encourage them to create jobs with ex-
pansion, and to make sure that we have
an economy that's stable and predictable.
So, I think that both Chairman Burns
and Miller would like to have lower in-
terest rates.
I hate to repeat myself again, but I
think that until the question of energy
is resolved, the uncertainty about this sub-
ject and the realization that our excessive
imports of oil or adverse balance of trade
is going to be permanent, those two things
are going to contribute to the deleterious
effects of increasing interest rates and also
uncertainty in the stock market.
Mr. Bradley [Ed Bradley, CBS News].
U.S. ATTORNEY DAVID MARSTON
Q. Mr. President, you promised dur-
ing the campaign to appoint U.S. attor-
neys strictly-without any consideration
of political aspects or influence—strictly
on the basis of merit. May we first of all
assume that is also your standard for
removing political attorneys, U.S. attor-
neys, and if so, why are you removing the
U.S. attorney in Philadelphia, David
Marston, who on the surface seems to
have a credible record, which includes the
prosecution and conviction of a number
of prominent Democrats?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the answer to
the first part of your question is certainly
yes. I intend to make sure that all the
appointments that are made to Federal
judgeships and also to U.S. attorneys are
made on the basis of merit. And I think
until each appointment is observed very
carefully-who was in office compared to
who is the replacement for that person
in office that it would be hard to criti-
cize a particular instance.
I have recently learned about the
U.S. attorney named Marston. This is
57
