Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
This question was posed by Mr. Wil-
liam Bonney of Albuquerque and reads
very briefly as follows: "Should the U.S.
Senate fail to ratify the treaty, what would
your next move be?"
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me
thank Senator Schmitt, who is there, and
also Ambassador Popper-I'm sure that
they and you, Dr. Nason, have presented
a very well balanced description of what
the treaties mean to our Nation. I think
they are fair to both the United States
and Panama. Under six Presidents, three
Republicans and three Democrats, there
has been a recognition from the White
House that the treaties that are presently
in existence need to be modified.
These two treaties will give us, through-
out this century and throughout the next
century as well, the clear right to defend
the canal, to ensure that it's open, neu-
tral, available for the ships of all nations,
that in a time of emergency or need, our
ships can go to the head of the line and
have rapid transit through the canal.
The negotiations have been going on
ever since President Johnson was here, 14,
almost 15 years ago, and they were just
completed this past year. The Panama-
nians have negotiated in good faith; so
have we. We've never been threatened.
We've never had any unpleasantness in
the negotiations. They have accepted the
treaties that we signed, General Torrijos
and I, and the Panamanian people have,
through a plebiscite, approved them by
almost a two-thirds majority, although
there was a lot of opposition in Panama.
Now it's up to the Senate to act, and I
believe that the Senate will ratify the
treaties. However, if the treaties are not
ratified, I think the Panamanian people
will indeed doubt our good intentions and
our good faith. I think the Latin Ameri-
can nations, and indeed the developing
nations all over the world, will doubt that
what we say about basic human rights and
fairness prevails with our large and pow-
erful country. And in spite of the commit-
ment that I have from General Torrijos
and other government leaders in Panama
that they will do everything possible to
hold down any attacks or violence—and
I don't have any doubt that they will-I
think that there will be some demonstra-
tions there by the Communists and by
others who would like to create dissension
between us and Panama.
I'll say this: Our Nation is strong
enough militarily to defend the canal, and
I would certainly take that action as Pres-
ident to guarantee that the canal is de-
fended. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, all five
of whom, by the way, strongly support the
treaties that we have signed, have esti-
mated that it might take 100,000 Ameri-
can troops to keep the canal open and free
of damage.
I would hate to have to do this. Of
course, as I said earlier, I would, if nec-
essary. I don't know how long the Ameri-
can people would support a major mili-
tary action of this kind. I would like to
avoid it, and that's the purpose of the
treaties, to make Panama and us not
enemies, but partners, to keep us in a
position of guaranteeing that the canal is
well-operated, well-maintained, is not a
drain on the American taxpayer, and is
open.
So, if the canal treaties should be re-
jected by the Senate, it would be a severe
blow, not only to the Panamanian people
but to the American people as well. And
under those circumstances, I would prob-
ably have to take emergency action, and
I would, if necessary, to guarantee that
the canal was open and defended. This is
a prospect, however, that I don't antici-
pate, because I believe that there's a grow-
ing sentiment, both in the United States
among our people and also among the
Senators who have studied this matter so
86
