Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bobby
Burr, and I'm from the "Canoe City" of
Old Town. On behalf of the Fifth Street
residents, I would like to welcome you to
Maine.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Bobby.
DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Q. The Democratic Party has long pro-
claimed that they are defendants and
champions of the poor, the oppressed,
and the elderly. I would like to know
how you, as the leading Democrat of the
country, can equate the fact on the one
hand that the House and the Senate has
either done away with or decreased dras-
tically any aid for these people and, on
the other hand, has granted themselves a
continuous cost-of-living raise?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that under
Democratic or Republican Presidents,
there have been substantial increases in
the salary and the other benefits of Mem-
bers of the Congress. And the same thing
has applied to the top Federal em-
ployees. I'm sure that it's been the case
with State employees and others who
serve in local government. I think that
we have done a great deal to help the
elderly and those who are unemployed
and those who have been suffering from
chronic poverty.
The Democrats were the ones who ini-
tiated social security. The Republicans
unanimously, with one exception, voted
against social security. The Democrats
were the ones that advocated the mini-
mum wage when it was only 25 cents an
hour. The Republicans voted overwhelm-
ingly against it.
The Democrats were the ones who ini-
tiated rural-free delivery of mail to
farmers and isolated families. The Re-
publicans voted overwhelmingly against
it. The Democrats initiated Medicaid,
Medicare, the old age programs that we
presently have in existence. The Older
Americans Act was coauthored by Bill
Hathaway, and in many cases the Re-
publicans voted overwhelmingly against
it.
This past year we initiated a strong
economic stimulus package, and I think
our economy was helped greatly. I just
pointed out a few minutes ago that the
unemployment rate in New England,
which had been 82 percent when I took
office, dropped to 52 percent in 1 year.
I can't predict that that downward rate is
going to continue. I don't know about
the future. But we will have going to the
Congress next week from me a recom-
mendation for a $13 billion continuation
of the comprehensive education and
training act, because the Democrats
have always felt that people who don't
have great wealth ought to have an op-
portunity for vocational training and
education tied directly to a job. We've
advocated more than doubling public
service employment and greatly expand-
ing jobs for young people. And I think
you know that the civil rights acts were
initiated and passed by a Democratic
President working with a Democratic
Congress.
We've got our faults in the Democratic
Party, but neglecting old people, unem-
ployed people, poor people, young people
is not one of our faults.
Q. Mr. President, my fifth grade class
would be upset if I didn't say hello for
the fifth grade class in Fitzborne Middle
School in Hampden, Maine.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
INDIAN LAND CLAIMS
Q. My question is, since the ice hasn't
been broken yet, since our land claims
case will set a precedent across the coun-
try, I would like to know, will other
States have to be as lucrative in the giv-
1
350
