Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
resented. He was never filled with hatred.
He never felt a sense of superiority. He led
the southern cause with pride, yes, but
with a sense of reluctance as well. He
fought his battles courageously. And he
said on one occasion that the word that
was the most sublime in the English lan-
guage was "duty"-duty to our country,
duty to our region, duty to our neigh-
bors, duty to the high standards spoken
to us by God.
Well, my heart really overflows when
I think about the responsibilities that you
have helped me to assume and the confi-
dence you had in me and what you mean
to me as neighbors, as advisers, as coun-
selors, and as friends. It means a lot to me
to come back here at home where I served
this State for 4 years as Governor and
4 years in the legislature, 7 years on a
county school board and 5 years on the
hospital authority, and 3 years on the
library board. And my roots are still the
same as they were.
I'm not afraid of the responsibility. I'm
not afraid of the past, the present, or the
future. I'll do the best I can. Together
we'll tackle the tough problems. But I'm
depending on you that if my arm gets
heavy and it starts to sag, I'm going to
depend on you to help me prop it up.
And I believe that together, you and I,
southerners, Americans, even people here
from all over the world who have come
to pay their own respects to the greatest
nation on Earth, I believe that together we
can realize the potential that's on our
shoulders, to show that those ideals that
we cherished as young people on the
farms and in the cities can overcome the
greatest obstacles, temptations for weak-
ness, and show the strength that's in us
and make America proud of us all.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 p.m. in
Exhibit Hall C at the Georgia World Congress
Center.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Joel W. McCleary, treasurer of the Demo-
cratic National Committee, Wallace Hyde, co-
chairman of the dinner, Kenneth M. Curtis,
chairman of the DNC, and Bert Lance, former
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget and cochairman of the dinner.
We learned from the Bible about the
fallibilities even of people who were given
great responsibility. I remember the story
of the escape of the Israelites from Egypt,
when Moses was a man anointed by God
to lead. And when the Israelites were in
a battle, God told Moses, "Hold up your
arm." And as long as Moses held up his
arms, the Israelites won. But after an hour Tax Reduction and Reform
or two or three, his arm got weary and it
began to sink, and the Israelites began
to lose. And his brother, Aaron, went and
propped up his arm for a while. And later
on Hur propped up Moses' arm for a
while, and the Israelites won.
Well, I don't under any circumstances
equate myself with Moses. But I would
like to remind you of this: You elected
me to be President. You gave me a job
to do. As long as I'm in the White House,
I'm going to try to do a good job, because
you have confidence in me.
Message to the Congress. January 20, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I recommend that Congress enact a
series of proposals that will reform our tax
system and provide $25 billion in net tax
reductions for individuals and businesses.
Fundamental reform of our tax laws
is essential and should begin now. Tax
relief and the maintenance of a strong
economy are essential as well. The enact-
ment of these proposals will constitute a
major step towards sustaining our eco-
158
