Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
already participated in one in Atlanta,
and we have others scheduled in Texas,
California, New York, and Chicago.
I would guess that on occasion, with-
out interfering with my other duties, I
will go out to campaign in different parts
of the country along with Democratic
candidates. I won't get involved in pri-
maries.
I think it's up to the people in those
States to choose the Democratic nominee
that they prefer. And I obviously can't
campaign for all Democratic candidates.
But where I feel that their own positions
in the Congress are reasonably compat-
ible with my own-I certainly don't ex-
pect subservience or want it, I don't ex-
pect complete compatibility or want it—
I would campaign.
At the same time, in those trips, I'll
make other worthwhile efforts to sense,
to personally encounter what the Amer-
ican people believe and want, and to
learn about our country.
For instance, on the visit to Winston-
Salem, I'll be with Democratic candi-
dates, perhaps for Governor, for the Con-
gress. I'll go from there to spend a num-
ber of hours on an atomic aircraft carrier,
seeing how it functions and what its role
might be.
I'll be coming back into Savannah
that evening for a major speech. And
when I'm in Winston-Salem, I'll make a
speech on national defense. So, these trips
will be a combination of the two. But I'll
spend more time this year, in 1978, than
I did last year.
Maybe one more question and I'll have
to close.
PUBLIC OPINION POLLS
Q. I realize this might be a tricky ques-
tion, but I'd like to pose it and I'd like
you to answer it.
THE PRESIDENT. It's not a question but
you want me to answer it? [Laughter] All
right.
Q. As of today, do you feel confident
that you will be reelected in 1980? The
reason I ask this is because of recent news-
paper editorials and columns which spec-
ulate that you may be a one-term Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that specula-
tion has been extant, you know, for almost
every President-certainly since Eisen-
hower. And as a matter of fact, no Presi-
dent has served two terms since Eisen-
hower because of either tragedy or reluc-
tance to run or because of defeat in the
campaign. I don't have any way to pro-
ject yet whether I will or will not run in
1980 or whether I would or would not be
elected.
The fact of the matter is that in the
public opinion polls my rating is still, you
know, like 70, 75 percent, and the analy-
sis of how good a job this administration
has done is much lower, down around 50
percent. It depends on which poll you
read. The measure of how effective an ad-
ministration is has a lot to do with other
people-how well the Congress responds
to my request for major legislation, like
on energy or the Panama Canal treaties;
how well our foreign affairs efforts are
successful, for instance, the Middle East
peace settlement or a SALT agreement.
So, there are some things over which we
have control, where I can make a uni-
lateral decision and that's the final word;
but, in almost every instance, the Presi-
dent's authority and power is very severe-
ly limited.
Now, there have been conjectures in
the press about whether I acted properly
or improperly, effectively or ineffectively
in the coal strike. This is not a matter that
a President can impose. You know, there's
no way that I can impose a settlement on
the miners and operators that they will
honor. But we did the best we could to
466
