Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
coordinated plans, without regimentation,
but with a degree of consistency.
I was a chairman of the Coastal Plains
Regional Commission, a Federal commis-
sion under the Commerce Department. I
was chairman of the Appalachian Re-
gional Commission. I was chairman of the
Southern Regional Education Board, an
organizer and the chairman of a long
meeting during which we derived a report
called "The Future of the South."
So, I've been involved in this kind of
discussion from the grassroots up to the
White House, and I've seen the poten-
tialities of it, the benefits of it to me, and
particularly the benefits of those who meet
here as leaders in your own right.
I know the dangers of leadership. My
wife went to a meeting the other day of
a group responsible for the future of the
District of Columbia, nongovernmental
in nature. Brock Adams was the speaker,
and he described the potential achieve-
ment of someone who dealt with things
like metropolitan transit systems and
housing programs. He said they're like the
achievement was a one-car funeral.
[Laughter]
Well, this can be the rewards of failure,
but there is also a tremendous reward of
searching for a better way of life.
This has been a conference brought to-
gether through a good process that began
when Congress passed a law and has
evolved over months and months of care-
ful preparation, 150 meetings or so in all
50 States, where people brought their
ideas to you and then eventually you
brought them here to us. Local govern-
ments, State governments, the Federal
Government—as President I represent all
those constituencies. And I've had a
chance to see the inevitable conflicts
among them.
The thing that concerns me most is the
isolation of governmental processes and
dealing with laws, the administration of
them, from the human realities of failure.
My wife, Rosalynn, my son Chip, and
other members of my family will be deal-
ing directly with the extragovernmental
efforts to keep me constantly aware of
human problems in the most personal
sense.
This process here has been interesting,
because I've noticed, as you've made your
report, an attempt to define the relation-
ship between the local and State and Fed-
eral governments. As you know, the orig-
inal constitutional processes derived from
the States themselves the power that the
present Federal Government has, as
changed by law and custom, as inter-
preted by the courts. But the fact is that
the original founders of our Nation saw
very clearly that the first evidence of prob-
lems derived from changing times would
be discerned not here in Washington, but
at the local and State levels of govern-
ment. And that's the way it has been.
Environmental conflicts with economic
growth were first evident in the local com-
munities when citizens complained about
filthy water and air not good to breathe
and a fouled landscape. And local officials
tried to deal with this in town halls and
county courthouses, and eventually the
pattern spread until it reached the State
governments. And in a fumbling, some-
times mistaken way, but in a well-mean-
ing way, environmental laws were fash-
ioned State by State, and then it became
obvious that when one State had strict
environmental laws and an additional
State had weak environmental laws, that
industry began to go to the State with the
weak laws. And problems there were ex-
acerbated even further. And eventually
the Federal Government had to provide
some kind of uniformity and guideline so
that on a nationwide basis, environmental
266
