Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
advice from the African people, and that
we espouse policies that accurately reflect
the principles on which our Nation was
founded.
I think this includes, obviously, peace
in Africa. It involves genuine friendship
and an equality of treatment, not as a
dominant nation looking down on other
countries-we need their help as much as
they need ours-a hope that human rights
in all its aspects, not only freedom from
government domination and participa-
tion in government on their part but also
an alleviation of hunger and an absence
of education and job opportunities—food,
clothing, health care might be alleviated.
All these are good things.
NATIONAL URBAN POLICY
MR. BRYANT. Mr. President, we're go-
ing to come back to human rights too, but
let Mr. Lewis-
MR. LEWIS. I wanted to bring you a
little closer to home. Every President in
our history, I think, has suggested pro-
grams that should work to save the cities
in this country-Eisenhower, Kennedy,
Johnson, Nixon, Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. I know.
MR. LEWIS. You are proposing $8.3
billion for the cities. Why do you think
your programs will work, and how are
you going to get over the idea to the black
community that you're really sincere? I
think there's a lot of suspicion on the part
of black people throughout this country
about Presidential politics.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say that we
have a magic answer to the problems of
urban America or poor America or black
American citizens. I think there have
been two or three differences. One is that
this whole program was developed in
close harmony with strong constituency
groups, black leaders, mayors of the major
cities-Maynard Jackson, Dick Hatcher,
Ken Gibson, mayors like Coleman Young.
Also we've worked very closely with the
mayor of Los Angeles, who just happened
to be black; but also the white ones,
as well. So, it's a program that is built up
from the bottom, not just handed down
from Washington, based on practical
experience.
Secondly, it's a program that brought
together all the departments of Govern-
ment for the first time. We not only put
forward some ideas on the increased
spending, better programs, and so forth,
but we reassessed and changed to some
degree 150 different Federal programs
that have been, in the past, designed to
help the cities, but haven't been effective
as they ought to have been.
We have built on direct programs that
would help people in the cities who are
poor. We have cut down the unemploy-
ment rate, as you know, about 1½ or
almost 2 percent this past year. But we've
also tried to triple purchasing from mi-
nority-owned businesses.
We've put into the laws that were
passed last year the Congress did-a
mandatory requirement that 10 percent of
the contracts be allotted to minority-
owned businesses. We've exceeded those
goals.
We've tried to increase, and have suc-
ceeded again, in increasing the deposit of
Federal funds in black-owned banks up
to more than $100 million now. And we've
exceeded our goal again.
We plan on setting up an urban bank
which would give loans in special areas.
We've advocated to the Congress under
this program that tax incentives for em-
ploying difficult people to hire be re-
warded and also prescribe investment
credits on taxation for people who invest
in the rundown urban centers.
So, I think the cohesion of the whole
program, the fact that it was built from
the ground up, that it modifies existing
programs, it puts a lot of money in, and
is targeted, are all new factors.
689
