Apr. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
must not be asked to bear the burdens of
society when they are no longer able.
These men and women are a vital part
of this Nation. Like all Americans, they
need comfortable and safe places to live,
nutritious daily diets and adequate in-
comes and services to give them freedom
to make choices. We all must work to-
gether to create these conditions in our
communities.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the month of May as
Older Americans Month and I ask public
officials at all levels, community agencies,
educators, the clergy, the communica-
tions media and each American to help
make it possible for older Americans to
enjoy their later years.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this nineteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:01 p.m., April 19, 1978]
Airline Deregulation Legislation.
Statement by the President. April 19, 1978
I welcome the Senate's action tonight
in passing, 83-9, the airline regulatory re-
form legislation.
This is an important step in the fight
against inflation, as I said in my anti-
inflation message last week. Many airline
carriers have already begun to reduce
fares in expectation of its enactment.
Making this bill law will guarantee that
the trend toward lower fares continues
and broadens to benefit more passen-
gers-and it will put an end to a form of
Government regulation of business that
is not only unnecessary but also counter-
productive from the public's point of
view.
Many Senators-and Senators Cannon,
Kennedy, and Pearson, in particular—
deserve credit for their leadership on this
bill. I urge the House to act upon it soon
as well.
NOTE: The statement was released on April 20.
National Commission on
Air Quality
Appointment of Seven Members.
April 20, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of seven persons as members
of the National Commission on Air
Quality. The Commission was created last
August and will consist of 13 members, of
whom 9 are appointed by the President
and 4 are Members of Congress. The
Commission has a maximum of 3 years to
deliver its final report to the President
and the Congress.
Those appointed today are:
RICHARD E. AYRES, a staff attorney for the
Natural Resources Defense Council in Wash-
ington and executive director of the NRDC
Environmental Lobby;
TOM BRADLEY, mayor of Los Angeles;
ANNEMARIE F. CROCETTI, clinical associate pro-
fessor at New York Medical College depart-
ment of preventive medicine and adjunct
professor in the school of education, health
division, department of nutrition, at New
York University;
JAY S. HAMMOND, Governor of Alaska;
JEANNE MALCHON, chair of the Pinellas
County, Fla., Board of County Commis-
sioners, and chair of the Florida Lung
Association;
LLOYD MCBRIDE, international president of the
United Steelworkers of America;
HAROLD W. Tso, director of the Environmental
Protection Commission for the Navajo Tribe
in Window Rock, Ariz.
762
