June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We have learned a great deal about
government, you and I together. Most of
you are senior to me. We have early morn-
ing study hours. I was up this morning at
5 o'clock getting ready for my week's
work. You do that regularly. I put in a
full day's work, and I even do some home-
work at night, as you do.
I think this is a class that has had no-
table achievement already in the fact that
all of you have been accepted in college.
And I hope that all of you will take ad-
vantage of that remarkable opportunity.
You've had good luck. I think that there
are hundreds of thousands of young
Americans who envy what you've had
available to you already, not only in a very
high academic education but, from a very
fine perspective, an analysis of what our
Government is, its good, sound elements
and, perhaps, even some legitimate criti-
cisms.
I hope that you, still in your formative
years, as you've now reached young adult-
hood, will take this experience that you've
derived and use it for the best interest of
our country, not in a negative, adverse, or
critical fashion, but in a constructive way,
because you will help to shape what our
country is in the years ahead.
I am very proud of your valedictorian,
Bill McMillan. I understand he's made
nothing but A's ever since the eighth
grade, straight A's. And your salutatorian,
Chip Barber, has done almost as well.
I now want to congratulate you collec-
tively, and as we deliver the diplomas, I'll
congratulate you individually.
[At this point, John C. Hoffman, principal of
the Capitol Page School, read the names of the
graduates, and the President presented them
with graduation certificates.]
Thank you very much. Good luck to
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
Federal-State Social Services
Claims
Statement on Signing H.R. 11370 Into Law.
June 12, 1978
I am today signing into law H.R.
11370, a bill authorizing appropriations
for the settlement of all social services
claims in dispute between States and the
Federal Government under certain titles
of the Social Security Act.
The bill authorizes an appropriation
of $543 million to resolve disputes that
have served as a continuing irritant to
Federal-State relations for the past 6
years. These claims, arising under State
social service programs, have been tied up
in court so long it sometimes seemed they
would never get out. The States and the
Federal Government have spent vast
sums of money during these legal tangles.
The bill signed today is the product of
State and Federal efforts to achieve a mu-
tually satisfactory resolution. It shows
what is possible when we work together
in good faith.
The bill, which has received bipartisan
and nearly unanimous support, is a set-
tlement. As such, it recognizes both right
and wrong on the part of the States and
the Federal Government. It is a compro-
mise fair to all.
Now the States and the Federal Gov-
ernment will be able to refocus their at-
tention to provision of essential social
services to needy persons. The Social Se-
curity Act provides a partial mechanism
to meet some of these needs, and I expect
it to become a more effective tool, now
that we are freer to devote our energies
and combined creative powers to the task.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11370 is Public Law
95-291, approved June 12.
1082
