Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
general tax credits with a $240 per
person credit.
-Simplify return preparation and rec-
ordkeeping by:
• eliminating the deductions for
sales, personal property, gaso-
line, and miscellaneous taxes;
O combining the separate medical
and casualty deductions and al-
lowing them only to the extent
they exceed 10 percent of ad-
justed gross income;
repealing the deduction for po-
litical contributions but retain-
ing the credit; and
liberalizing and modifying the
Subchapter S and depreciation
rules applicable to small busi-
nesses.
-Include unemployment compensa-
tion benefits in the taxable income of
taxpayers above certain income
levels.
-Ensure that the tax preferences avail-
able for fringe benefits assist rank-
and-file workers as well as executive
officers.
-Eliminate the special bad debt de-
duction for commercial banks, re-
duce the bad debt deduction avail-
able to savings and loan associations,
and remove the tax exemption for
credit unions.
-Phase out the tax subsidies for Do-
mestic International Sales Corpora-
tions (DISCs) and the deferral of
tax on foreign profits.
These reforms will make our tax system
both fairer and simpler. Many of them are
targeted at tax preferences and subsidies
for activities that do not deserve special
treatment and that largely benefit those
who have no need for financial assistance.
The average working man and woman
pay for the loopholes and the special pro-
visions in our tax laws-because when
some do not pay their fair share, the ma-
jority must pay higher taxes to make up
the difference.
Low and middle-income workers, strug-
gling to make ends meet, are discouraged
by tax laws that permit a few individuals
to live extravagantly at the expense of
government tax revenues. The privileged
few are being subsidized by the rest of the
taxpaying public when they routinely de-
duct the cost of country club dues, hunt-
ing lodges, elegant meals, theater and
sports tickets, and night club shows. But
the average worker's rare "night on the
town" is paid for out of his own pocket
with after-tax dollars.
Likewise, individuals who pay taxes on
nearly every penny of earnings are treated
unfairly compared to the few who are
able to "shelter" their high incomes from
taxes. Some persons with incomes exceed-
ing $200,000 have little or no tax liability,
while other high-income individuals re-
turn to the Federal government nearly 60
cents of every dollar received. There is no
good reason for next-door neighbors, in
the same economic circumstances, to have
vastly different tax bills because one has
found tax shelters and loopholes.
In addition to the preferences for ex-
pense account items and tax shelter activi-
ties, there are a number of equally inap-
propriate and inefficient corporate tax
subsidies. For example, there is no justi-
fication for the DISC export subsidy un-
der which we pay over $1 billion a year in
foregone tax revenue (mostly to our larg-
est corporations) to encourage our firms
to do what they would do anyway-ex-
port to profitable foreign markets. Nor
can we rationalize proposals to reduce
business taxes to increase investment at
home while the deferral subsidy encour-
ages multinational corporations to invest
overseas by letting them pay lower taxes
on their foreign profits than they pay on
money earned in the United States.
160
