Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 17, 1978
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With a Group of Editors and News Directors.
February 10, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that I'm very glad to have you at the
White House. This has been a good ex-
perience for us to have the editors and
executives from the electronic media come
to visit with our Cabinet members, on oc-
casion, the White House staff members,
and with me. And in some instances, the
Members of Congress have invited the in-
dividual editors to come to the Hill.
I'd like to say just a few words and
then spend the time we have answering
your questions.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
This past week has been a fairly busy
one for us, primarily because of the visit
by President Sadat, the initiation of the
Panama Canal treaty debates, and con-
tinuing efforts—not so far successful-on
the energy legislation.
We have, now, the Congress ready to
recess. And we'll be working this weekend
for an arms package to go to the Hill con-
cerning the Middle East. I think we have
made some good progress in the last 12
months in the Middle East.
Foreign Minister Dayan is in our coun-
try now. Prime Minister Begin is in Eu-
rope. And Dayan will be meeting with Sec-
retary of State Vance and, perhaps, with
me when he gets to Washington.
Roy Atherton,' who's been chief nego-
tiator in the Middle East, will go back
within a week or so to continue the pre-
paration of a statement of principles that
might be adequate, we hope will be ade-
quate enough, for King Hussein to come
into the discussions on the West Bank,
Gaza Strip, and the Palestinian question.
President Sadat has made it clear to us
that there will be no signing of a separate
agreement between himself and Prime
Minister Begin unless the resolution that
I've described on the West Bank and with
the Palestinians is concluded. We have
benefited greatly as a nation in seeing
some progress made on the Middle East,
and particularly with the new direct nego-
tiations between Egypt and Israel.
It's a very discouraging and frustrating
thing to be the intermediary or the mes-
senger boy between a group of leaders in
the Middle East who won't even speak to
each other. And when you carry a message
from one to another, the one who receives
it doesn't like it and blames the adverse
message partially on the messenger. And
then when the reply gets back, there's
¹ Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern and South Asian
Affairs.
305
