Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
shall have to continue to support strong
and efficient military forces.
For most of human history, people have
wished vainly that freedom and the flow-
ering of the human spirit, which freedom
nourishes, did not finally have to depend
upon the force of arms. We, like our fore-
bears, live in a time when those who
would destroy liberty are restrained less
by their respect for freedom itself than by
their knowledge that those of us who
cherish freedom are strong.
We are a great nation made up of tal-
ented people. We can readily afford the
necessary costs of our military forces, as
well as an increased level, if needed, to
prevent any adversary from destabilizing
the peace of the world. The money we
spend on defense is not wasted any more
than is the cost of maintaining a police
force in a local community to keep the
peace. This investment purchases our
freedom to fulfill the worthy goals of our
Nation.
Southerners, whose ancestors a hun-
dred years ago knew the horrors of a
homeland devastated by war, are partic-
ularly determined that war shall never
come to us again. All Americans under-
stand the basic lesson of history: that we
need to be resolute and able to protect
ourselves, to prevent threats and domina-
tion by others.
No matter how peaceful and secure
and easy the circumstances of our lives
now seem, we have no guarantee that the
blessings will endure. That is why we will
always maintain the strength which, God
willing, we shall never need to use.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 a.m. in Wait
Chapel at the university.
Following his remarks, the President at-
tended a reception for Representative Neal
in the chapel building.
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Informal Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters. March 17, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. I've just got a few min-
utes, and I thought I'd take a few ques-
tions from the local press.
VACANCY ON CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
REPORTER. Mr. President, there has
been a vacancy here on the circuit court
of appeals for more than 10 months. I
understand your nominating committee
gave you five recommendations sometime
in the fall. Have you made your deci-
sion? And if not, when will you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet.
That's something that I have not yet dis-
cussed in final form with the Attorney
General. In all the circuit court appoint-
ments, however, in every place in the
United States now, we have merit selec-
tion committees set up. And they give me
the five names of the people that in their
judgment—these are very distinguished
people, as you know-would make the
best circuit court judge. And from that
list I will choose one of the nominees.
I've not yet had a chance to discuss
this with the Attorney General. Before
I can make a selection, we have to go
through a long, detailed analysis of the
person's financial background, have an
FBI check, compare the candidates. It
will not be delayed, but I can't give you
an answer yet.
TAFT-HARTLEY ACT
Q. Mr. President, now that it is ap-
parent that the Taft-Hartley Act isn't
working, what are your options?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Taft-
Hartley Act is working. There's nothing
in the Taft-Hartley Act that compels an
individual miner to go into a mine and
535
