Jan. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
VISIT TO INDIA
Q. Do you think you would have liked
to have been Viceroy of India? [Laugh-
ter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I tried
to learn while I was in India what their
feelings are toward the British. And my
sense was that they have a genuine ap-
preciation of what the British did, that
the viceroys' administrations were in gen-
eral very benevolent. There was no India
before the British came. It was just a col-
lection of a large number of independent
THE PRESIDENT. I felt just as much at
home in that Indian village as I did in
the palaces. It would be hard to describe
my own anticipation of going to the vil-
lage and the accuracy with which my
mother has described the life of an Indian
in a typical rural area which is very poor.
In a sense, I was representing my
mother when I went there, because she
went in and out of those small homes. She
ran a clinic and administered to lepers
and those who were dying and those who
were outcast.
states in all forms. The British brought body knowing about it ahead of time,
Without scheduling or without any-
the subcontinent together in unity.
After Gandhi's heroic and unbelieva-
ble crusade, the British left with good
spirits. They turned over the power to
Nehru on their departure.
And they were very proud to take me
to a room, for instance, where no Amer-
ican or European has ever been. It's a
beautiful portrait gallery, underneath the
palace where we stayed, of all the British
viceroys and other administrators who
had been there and their wives. Every
portrait is, I'd say, twice life-size. And it's
very beautifully done, and it shows the
respect that the Indians feel toward the
British. So, I didn't have any yearning to
be a viceroy. [Laughter] I'd rather be
President. [Laughter] I think the British
left with a good feeling among the
Indians.
Q. This is a time for me to ask about
the Indian village.
MR. POWELL. Let me first of all say
that I would like one more question, in
order to get it transcribed and get it back.
This is the last question.
Q. I am very interested in what your
impressions were of that Indian village
and what your thoughts and feelings
were, particularly when you touched that
poor old blind lady sitting in the dust.
Desai and Rosalynn and I went into sev-
eral of the homes. In fact, that home had
no idea we were going in there, as you
know. And I didn't feel like an alien
there. I think those people don't realize
the comparison between their lifestyle
and that of other people. I don't think
they were ashamed of their poverty.
They showed, at least to me—and my
wife and I disagree to some degree on
this-that between a better lifestyle un-
der a totalitarian government and the
right to own their own house and to work
a half-acre of land and to keep their own
children close to them and to make their
own decision in a political election, that
they had made their choice. The substan-
tial vote-I think over 200 million people
voted in this past year's election for Desai
compared to Mrs. Gandhi-they showed
a concern about the derogation of democ-
racy in India. And, I don't know, those
are just some mixed emotions, but that
was one of the best parts of the Indian
trip to me.
Q. I don't understand what it is that
you and Mrs. Carter disagree on.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not going to go
into that.
Q. Okay. Maybe I just missed it.
48
