June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
owned banks, and we more than met that
goal, and we hope to have a higher goal
this year.
We introduced legislation for public
works jobs with a provision in it that at
least 10 percent of all the contracts had
to be made with minority-owned busi-
nesses, and that's been successful. In the
area under Secretary Kreps' direction,
early in the year, she achieved more than
a 15-percent achievement rate. And other
Cabinet officers are now finding that
where there was some reticence in their
own departments, that when the law was
laid down to them, that the goal was not
difficult to meet. And I would like for
that not to be a special thing in the fu-
ture,
but a natural part of the conscious-
ness of all those in top ranks in Govern-
ment who make those kinds of decisions.
In the Defense Department and other
areas, we are trying to make purchases of
routine supplies be channeled more and
more into those businesses that are owned
by minority citizens. And I believe that
this is a trend not only that has been en-
thusiastically endorsed by many in my
own administration but which has been
accepted with enthusiasm by almost all
Americans. I've not had any adverse re-
action accusing us of setting artificial or
unwarranted quotas, because I think
there is a general recognition that in the
past the opportunity has not been there
for equal chance at government business
and for a chance to compete on an equal
basis in a free enterprise system.
We have benefited greatly in our ad-
ministration, too, by having a large num-
ber of black administrators who help
shape policy at the Cabinet level and in
lower positions as well. And this has pro-
vided all of us with a growing insight into
how we might have a more equitable op-
portunity in our great country.
I think the last thing I would like to
say is that I need your continued advice.
You are men and women of stature, and
others around you look to you for leader-
ship. And I know that quite often, partic-
ularly among segments of any society
against whom discrimination has been
punitive, that you don't have to be in an
elected office to speak with a loud and
strong voice.
My own early government years were
centered around Atlanta. And the uni-
versity complex there, the business com-
munity, the professional community, as
well as the governmental community pro-
vided a means for white leaders to under-
stand, for the first time, what action
could be taken which they might very
well have never observed on their own
initiative, thinking that they were doing
an adequate job in providing equality of
opportunity when they really didn't un-
derstand the special deprivations that
quite often are hidden from those who
don't suffer from them.
And I would like for you to provide
that service to me throughout my service
here in the White House, to give me your
strong support when you think I am
doing right, to work closely with me and
other officials in the Government for
counsel in the evolution of new programs,
the implementation of programs, and for
your tough criticisms when you think I
fall short of what I should do to serve the
same people who are served by you.
In the areas that don't specifically
relate to minority groups, I know that
you've reached a degree of influence and
a breadth of vision that your efforts don't
have to be confined to the black constitu-
ency in our country. You serve as Ameri-
cans, not as black Americans, and I would
hope that in the broad areas of civil
rights in this country, human rights
around the world, domestic affairs and
foreign affairs, tax matters and welfare
matters, housing, transportation, educa-
tion, health, that you would use your own
1104
