Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 24
Blind and Other Severely Handicapped.
They are:
EDMUND ALVAREZ, Director of the Office of
Operations of the Department of Agricul-
ture;
ROBERT P. GRAHAM, Commissioner of the Fed-
eral Supply Service, General Services Ad-
ministration;
REAR ADM. EUGENE A. GRINSTEAD, Com-
mander, Naval Supply Systems Command
and Chief of Supply Corps for the U.S.
Navy;
MAJ. GEN. DEWEY K. K. Lowe, Director of
Procurement Policy for the Deputy Chief of
and it brings the total acreage in this sys-
tem now to 15.7 million acres.
This bill is critical in preserving areas
that are a vital part of our national her-
itage and that will be enjoyed by our
American people in this generation and
in generations and centuries to come.
In passing this bill the Congress has
adequately addressed, for the time being,
the need to protect endangered areas in
the continental United States, the 48
lower States. But we still have an oppor-
Staff, Systems and Logistics, U.S. Air Force; tunity to act on legislation that will pre-
BRIG. GEN. Ernest A. VULEY, JR., Director of
Materiel Management, U.S. Army Materiel
Development and Readiness Command.
Endangered American Wilderness
Act of 1978
Remarks on Signing H.R. 3454 Into Law.
February 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
thank the Members of Congress and the
Cabinet who are assembled here for the
signing of a very important piece of
legislation.
serve crucial wilderness areas in Alaska
before some of the most spectacular
scenery in the world and the most produc-
tive wildlife habitats in the world are lost
forever.
My administration has made proposals
for Alaskan lands that reconcile needs for
development and conservation, working
very closely with Members of the Con-
gress, especially those behind me this
morning. And I hope that the entire Con-
gress and the administration can press
forward together to complete action on
these Alaskan lands this year.
I want to express especially my appre-
ciation to Congressman Udall, to Senator
In my environmental message to the
Congress in 1977 last May, I urged Church, to Senator Jackson, to Congress-
prompt expansion of the National Wil-
derness Preservation System, among the
most deserving areas that could be lost
forever for the American people.
Today I am signing H.R. 3454, the En-
dangered American Wilderness Act of
1978. This act will add about 1.3 million
acres in 10 Western States to the wilder-
ness areas of our country, expanding 4
existing wilderness areas and adding 13
new areas at this time. This represents the
largest single addition to the wilderness
areas of our country since the original en-
actment of the wilderness act in 1964,
man Roncalio, Congressman Weaver, and
also to Secretary Bergland, who helped to
make this bill possible. It's a great step
forward for our country, and it will be
appreciated by Americans many years in
the future.
Thank you very much, gentlemen. I'm
very proud of the things you have done.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
Mo, if you and Frank and the others
would like to make a brief statement, it
would be appreciated.
REPRESENTATIVE UDALL. Well, I don't
think I need to sit down. [Laughter]
409
