June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
human beings concerns us all and must
be defended and enhanced. I'm con-
vinced that the peoples of the Americas
want a world in which citizens of every
country are free from torture, from arbi-
trary arrest and prolonged detention
without trial, free to speak and to think
as they please, free to participate in the
determination of their own destiny.
My Government will not be deterred
from our open and enthusiastic policy of
promoting human rights, including eco-
nomic and social rights, in whatever
ways we can. We prefer to take actions
that are positive, but where nations per-
sist in serious violations of human rights,
we will continue to demonstrate that
there are costs to the flagrant disregard
of international standards.
Above and beyond any actions we take
ourselves, we believe multilateral action
can be the most effective means of en-
couraging the protection of human rights.
Last year's Organization of American
States General Assembly demonstrated
our common interest in this important
commitment. It set the stage for this
year's events.
During the past year, the Inter-Ameri-
can Commission on Human Rights, one
of our region's most important instru-
ments, has grown stronger. Its budget was
tripled, and it was invited by more Gov-
ernments to investigate and report on
conditions. We consider this not an intru-
sion into the internal affairs of countries,
but a mechanism by which those coun-
tries that stand condemned, perhaps er-
roneously, by the rest of the world, might
clear their good name and prove to us
and to the rest of the world that human
rights indeed are not being violated.
This is a very good encouragement for
us in the United States to set a good ex-
ample, and I hope we'll retain our com-
mitment to this principle so vividly that
every day, every head of state in the whole
world has before his or her consciousness
a concern about "How are we doing to
enhance human rights in our own
country?"
We have had, I believe, good progress
so far, and I commend the reports that
have been submitted to this General As-
sembly and urge that their recommenda-
tions be fulfilled.
In the past year, six countries have
joined Costa Rica and Colombia in
ratifying the American Convention on
Human Rights. Three more countries
must ratify it for it to come into force. I
signed the convention on June 1, a long
overdue action on the part of the United
States. I signed this while my wife was in
San José, and I pledged my own efforts to
bring about the United States ratification
as soon as possible.
I hope that every nation represented
around this table will make every effort
expeditiously to sign and to ratify this
American Convention on Human Rights
without delay.
We should use this General Assembly
to plan for the moment when the con-
vention enters into force. We share the
view that the present Commission will
continue to carry out its mandate until a
new Commission is functioning.
The governments whose leaders visited
Panama for the ceremonies this past week-
end have been at the forefront of the
movement for human rights and democ-
racy. A few weeks ago, several of our
countries spoke out in support of the dem-
ocratic election process in a neighboring
country.
Now, we realize that the path from
authoritarian rule to democratic rule can
be difficult and demanding. During such
a transition, and in the midst of the elec-
toral process, my Government pledges
not to intervene nor to show favoritism
toward particular individuals or partic-
ular parties. But we will continually sup-
1144
