Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I want to make it clear to the
world that we in the United States are
not asking any country to accept safe-
guards that we are unwilling to accept
ourselves.
So I am, today, announcing that
when such safeguards are applied un-
der the treaty, the United States will
permit the International Atomic En-
ergy Agency to apply its safeguards to
all nuclear activities in the United
States-excluding only those with di-
rect national security significance.
Under this offer the Agency will be
able to inspect a broad range of U.S.
nuclear activities, both governmental
and private, including the fuel in nu-
clear power reactors owned by utilities
for generating electricity, and the fab-
rication, and chemical reprocessing of
such fuel..."
Over the next ten years, both Presidents
Nixon and Ford reaffirmed that offer.
I also transmit, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State concerning the Agreement.
Universal participation in the NPT is a
central goal of our non-proliferation pol-
icy. The entry into force of this Agree-
ment would encourage that participation,
that participation,
and would fulfill our long-standing com-
mitment to accept safeguards. I urge the
Senate to act favorably on this Agreement
at an early date and give its advice and
consent to ratification.
The White House,
February 9, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
International Atomic Energy
Agency
Announcement of Transmittal to the Senate
of a Nuclear Safeguards Agreement.
February 9, 1978
President Carter today fulfilled a 10-
year United States pledge for nuclear
safeguards by submitting to the Senate for
ratification a treaty with the Internation-
al Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The
treaty would make all U.S. nuclear facil-
ities, except those with direct national se-
curity significance, eligible for the appli-
cation of safeguards by this international
agency.
Under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty (NPT), the 99 nonnuclear weap-
pon member states are required to accept
IAEA safeguards on all of their peaceful
nuclear facilities. While the NPT does not
impose this duty on nuclear weapon
states, the United States voluntary offer to
enter into such a safeguards agreement
has been extremely important in inducing
other nations to adhere to the treaty.
United States willingness to accept the
same safeguards as the NPT requires for
nonnuclear weapon states is tangible evi-
dence of our belief that the NPT does not
discriminate against nonnuclear weapon
states. It also demonstrates the U.S. con-
viction that the application of interna-
tional safeguards neither hampers the
development of nuclear power nor puts
the safeguarded party at a commercial
disadvantage.
This offer by the United States to bring
its nuclear facilities not having direct na-
tional security significance under interna-
tional safeguards was first made on De-
cember 2, 1967, by President Lyndon
294
