Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 10, 1978
Visit of President Anwar al-Sadat
of Egypt
Remarks on Returning to the White House
From Camp David, Maryland..
February 5, 1978
President Sadat and his wife, Jihan, I
and my wife, Rosalynn, and our family,
have had a very enjoyable 2 days at Camp
David. During this time, President Sadat
and I have had a chance to spend hours
together discussing the relationships be-
tween our two countries and our renewed
commitment to achieve a peaceful settle-
ment of the differences that exist in the
Middle East.
nation to work, without ceasing, to bring
peace to the Middle East. And we had a
thorough discussion of other bilateral re-
lationships concerning us in the Horn of
Africa and other places around the world.
It's been a very enjoyable experience,
President Sadat. And I look forward to
seeing you again on Wednesday, after
you've had this chance to meet with our
officials and our Congress.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Yesterday afternoon, the Vice Presi- Visit of President Sadat of Egypt
dent, Secretary of State, and the distin-
guished leaders who accompanied Presi-
dent Sadat here from Egypt met with us
for a more thorough discussion of all the
issues that I've described so briefly.
During the rest of this week, President
Sadat will be meeting with congressional
leaders. He'll be making a speech tomor-
row to the National Press Club and will
be meeting with me again. And on
Wednesday, when he departs, I will have
a much more definitive statement to make
about the results of our meeting.
We have thoroughly enjoyed being to-
gether. There is complete agreement
between him and me about our determi-
White House Statement Issued Following
Meetings. February 5, 1978
President Sadat and President Carter
have completed 2 days of extensive talks
at Camp David in which they considered
carefully the further steps necessary to
achieve a comprehensive peace settlement
in the Middle East. They were joined for
part of their talks on Saturday on the
Egyptian side by His Excellency Sayed
Marei, Speaker, People's Assembly; His
Excellency Hassan Ahmed Kamel, Direc-
tor, Office of the President; His Excel-
lency Mohamed Ibrahim Kamel, Minister
of Foreign Affairs; His Excellency Ashraf
279
