Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 15
Nuclear Waste Management
Task Force
Memorandum From the President.
March 13, 1978
ation objectives, and budgetary impacts
including potential involvement in
waste management programs by private
industry.
The deliberations of the Task Force
should include opportunity for appropri-
ate participation by the interested pub-
lic, industry, States, and Members of
Congress.
Memorandum for the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Interior, the Secre-
tary of Transportation, the Secretary of
Energy, Chairman, Council on Environ-
mental Quality, Administrator, Environ-
mental Protection Agency, Acting Direc-
tor, Office of Management and Budget, pleted by October 1, 1978.
Director, Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs and Policy, Assistant
to the President for National Security leased on March 15.
Affairs
I am directing that the activities of the
Task Force be initiated by March 15 and
final recommendations should be com-
Subject: Interagency Nuclear Waste
Management Task Force
By this memorandum I am establishing
an interagency Nuclear Waste Manage-
ment Task Force to formulate recom-
mendations for establishment of an Ad-
ministration policy with respect to long-
term management of nuclear wastes and
supporting programs to implement this
policy. I have asked the Secretary of En-
ergy to chair this Task Force.
The Department of Energy is issuing a
draft report setting forth preliminary
views on key issues in the waste manage-
ment area. This report should serve as
the basis of initial discussion for the Task
Force. Areas which should be considered,
leading to establishment of an Adminis-
tration policy for nuclear waste manage-
ment, include wastes from commercial
nuclear power operations, existing low-
level, transuranic (TRU), and high-level
defense wastes. In addition, on-going pro-
grams should be reviewed to assure that
the policy is implemented in a timely
manner. Attention should also be given to
the necessity of legislation, environmental
assessment, support for our non-prolifer-
JIMMY CARTER.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
Cancer Control Month, 1978
Proclamation 4552. March 15, 1978
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Of all known diseases in this country,
cancer is probably the most feared. Re-
cent statistics indicate that 700,000 cases
of cancer will be diagnosed in the United
States in 1978 and that 390,000 Amer-
icans will die of some form of the disease
this year. Only through continued sup-
port of cancer research and control can
we reduce these figures.
The Federal Government, in coopera-
tion with non-Federal organizations, is
committed to finding the cause and cure
of all forms of cancer and of controlling
it to the extent possible while that search
goes on. Since the inception of the Na-
tional Cancer Program, we have learned
much about the cause, detection, treat-
ment and control of cancer. Today, can-
cer can often be detected earlier, making
more effective treatment possible and sav-
509
