Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 26
26th amendment to the great Constitu-
tion of the United States. And it's a
credit to him, of course, but it's also a
credit to West Virginia that this docu-
ment, which shapes our lives now and
in the future, was modified for one of
the few times in history by the man who
has served this State so well. And again,
he's a modest man. He doesn't go around
bragging about his accomplishments, but
that quiet, good, solid service, based on
visions of the future years but also based
in how close he is to you and to your
children, is what has made him so
effective.
you
Well, finally, let me just recall for
that in 1959, Jennings Randolph intro-
duced a bill to create a national com-
mission on fuels and energy. I wish it
had passed when he introduced it.
[Laughter] But this was a measure spe-
cifically requiring that our Congress and
the President back then develop a na-
tional energy plan. And when he intro-
duced this legislation almost 20 years ago,
his words were clear and prophetic, and
I would like to quote just one sentence:
"Every year we delay in establishing a
national energy policy perhaps brings us
1 year closer to disaster."
Almost 20 years later, finally, we're on
the verge of developing a sound energy
plan for our country.
Of course, I can't claim that Jennings
Randolph didn't have some ulterior mo-
tive in mind, because the plan calls for
a heavy reliance on West Virginia coal.
I don't believe anybody here will be
surprised to learn that the coal utilization
conversion bill which has already been ap-
proved by the House and Senate confer-
ence committee-and it's sure to become
law-is almost exactly the same bill that
Jennings Randolph introduced himself
long before I became President. And I
might add that as we use more and more
coal, that coal will be hauled over the
same Federal highways and the roads in
West Virginia for which Jennings Ran-
dolph is directly responsible.
Well, I won't talk much longer, but I
would like to say a couple more things.
I've just cited a few of the accomplish-
ments of this great leader. But they vividly
underscore that he's not a man of yester-
day, but he's a man of today and tomor-
row. He's strong, determined, vigorous,
active, competent, and because of the re-
spect which he enjoys throughout the
Congress and certainly in the White
House, he's effective.
I think that there's no one who has
done more for American veterans. I think
there's no one who's done more for the
disabled and the handicapped people of
the United States. I think there's no one
who's done more for all those who live in
Appalachia, because the legislation that
set up the Appalachian Commission,
which I headed as chairman when I was
Governor, was introduced, you know, by
Jennings Randolph.
He doesn't believe in government hand-
outs for those who are able to work, but
he believes in giving people the oppor-
tunity to work if they are able. And I don't
believe anybody has helped me more in
trying to bring down the unemployment
rate than has Jennings Randolph.
And finally, and what's perhaps most
important of all for me, is that he's a man
on whom you can depend, a man of abso-
lute integrity. There has never been an
allegation against his honesty, against his
integrity, against his commitment of what
was fine and decent and idealistic, that
represents accurately what all West Vir-
ginia people would like to be themselves
and what they demand and expect in a
leader who represents them in the national
and international councils of the United
States Senate.
Well, as President, I face difficult and
sometimes almost insoluble problems. And
1001
