Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 9
Cruikshank has been at my right hand
every time I've made a major decision
about any matter in the Federal Govern-
ment, constantly reminding me how this
decision might affect those who have
reached the status of senior citizenship in
our country.
We've undertaken and successfully
resolved one of the major problems, and
that is to make sure that social security is
sound, that it does not go bankrupt, and
that it will retain that status for the rest
of the lives of everyone who's in this room.
"
Just as a short while ago I was cam-
paigning throughout the country, as some
of you remember, for 2 years, and I would
make a short 15-minute speech, and I
would answer questions. And almost in-
variably the first question that came from
a senior citizen would be, "What is going
to happen to the social security system?"
And I think it's good for us to look back
on what the Congress has done in a very
courageous way, because there have been
intense pressures put on the Congress not
to take action to protect the social security
system, but then after the bill was passed,
to undo what had been done.
And I would like to ask all of you to
take the time in the next week to write
your Member of Congress a note and say,
"I'm not just demanding that do
you
something in the future, I want to thank
you for what you did last year," because
this would help them so much to recognize
that their action, courageous as it was, was
also needed and is also appreciated by
you.
As you well know, we have also taken
action within the last year to remove the
mandatory retirement age, to let this be a
decision made by American citizens them-
selves and not by an arbitrary imposition
of regulations in the Federal Government.
And we are moving to remove that re-
straint in the private sector as well, so that
productive Americans will not have to
retire until you and they are ready to do
so, a major step in the right direction.
I think you know that [Representative]
Claude Pepper is here, and he worked on
this for years and years very successfully.
Thank you, Claude.
I'm not going to outline for you a rec-
ord of all the action that the Congress
has taken in the last year and a half or
that I have taken through administrative
action or that the different heads of de-
partments have taken. But I want to point
not just to the past but to the future.
We have some major challenges ahead
of us. We've evolved now a clear descrip-
tion of what a comprehensive urban pol-
icy ought to be, how to deal with deterio-
rating neighborhoods, how to make sure
that American people have a chance to
live a fruitful and enjoyable and a secure
life. Because if there are three character-
istics that are mandatory for any of us,
no matter how young or how old we might
be, first of all, it's to be secure, to recog-
nize that our home, our community, our
very lives, our property are protected
financially and physically.
The second thing we want is to have a
chance to expand our lives, to have a
bigger heart to encompass new friends, to
have a bigger mind to learn more about
the world that God gave us. And the edu-
cational process ought not to stop when
we graduate from college or even when
we start a new career or when we finish a
new career, because there are people in
their seventies and eighties, as you know,
who still have a dynamic approach, not
just to today but to tomorrow. And that is
an element that needs to be emphasized
in our lives.
We have a challenge before us in the
financial structure of our country, and you
can help play a major role in shaping the
policies of our Nation.
The most serious problem that I have,
the most serious challenge that faces us, is
1063
