Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ministration. I am asking that this
review be completed in time for our
FY 1980 budget assessments and our
1979 legislative proposals.
• To coordinate the activities of Fed-
eral agency consumer programs in
order to avoid duplication and to en-
sure that they are efficiently admin-
istered.
To assist my Special Assistant for Con-
sumer Affairs in fulfilling these responsi-
bilities, I direct all executive departments
and agencies to cooperate with and pro-
vide information to my Special Assistant
as needed. In implementing these respon-
sibilities, my Special Assistant will, from
time to time, consult and meet with the
Secretary, or appropriate Assistant Secre-
tary, of each Federal department and
agency responsible for consumer pro-
grams, for the purpose of establishing
framework within which to evaluate and
review the policies, budgets, activities, and
structure of consumer-related programs in
each agency.
I have also asked my Special Assistant
for Consumer Affairs to meet with re-
sponsible representatives of business,
labor, farm, and consumer groups in ful-
filling the new responsibilities outlined in
this memorandum.
I am confident that all will give their
full support to my Special Assistant in the
performance of new responsibilities and
duties outlined here.
JIMMY CARTER
Export of Special Nuclear
Material to India
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Executive Order 12055. April 27, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, pursuant to
Section 126b (2) of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, as amended, an Executive
Order authorizing the export of 7,638
Kgs. of low-enriched uranium to India for
use in the fueling of its Tarapur Atomic
Power Station.
In our Agreement for Cooperation with
India, the United States agreed to supply
all of the fuel requirements for that Pow-
er Station, and India agreed to operate it
exclusively on U.S.-supplied fuel. We con-
tracted to supply the specific fuel here in-
volved a number of years ago.
An application for a license to export
this fuel was submitted to the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission early last year.
This application was carefully reviewed
within the Executive Branch, which con-
cluded that the proposed export would
not be inimical to the common defense
and security, that it would meet all the
immediate statutory criteria under the
then pending Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Act, and that the license should be issued.
Later that month, the Commission was of-
ficially notified of the Executive Branch
findings and recommendations.
On April 20, the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission found itself unable to agree
upon the issuance of this license, being
divided by a 2-2 vote. The Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Act of 1978 wisely provided
for just such a contingency. Previously,
there was no clear way of dealing with a
situation in which the Commission was
unable to decide upon the issuance of an
export license, and no way of ensuring
that in cases where the licensing process
would lead to a result that the President
believed would be seriously prejudicial to
the achievement of United States non-
proliferation objectives, such prejudice
could be avoided.
I have determined that this is such a
case. The Government of India has given
790
