Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 2
and integrity by which the American
small business person makes a vital con-
tribution to the Nation, to the economy,
and to the free enterprise system," signed
"Vernon Weaver, Administrator, Small
Business Administration."
MR. GAFFNEY. Thank you very much.
I hope you're not all as surprised as my
mother-in-law is. [Laughter]
I'd like to thank the Small Business
Administration and all of you. It's been
a pleasure getting to know the few of you
that I have, and Mr. Carter in partic-
ular. It's very true that Mr. Carter has
opened his administration to the small
business movement, and I think that if
we, as small businessmen, are unsuccess-
ful in our efforts to improve the country,
the fault lies with us. And we need to get
organized and get to work and help
Mr. Carter help us.
Thank you very much.
MR. WEAVER. Just one word. As the
President said, he has called for a White
House Conference in the fall of 1979.
Right now, the small business commu-
nity, we estimate, has the backing of
more than 80 percent of the Congress.
And with a President in the White House
who was a small business person, who did
get a loan from SBA, who paid it back-
[laughter]-who got help from
SCORE volunteer organization—and he
gives a lot of credit for his successful busi-
ness career to SCORE, by the way-if
we can't accomplish what needs to be
accomplished in this next year, year and
a half, for small business, we'll never ac-
complish it.
As the President said, he's asked every
department to come up with one new
idea that they can accomplish for you
before that Conference, to be announced
at that Conference. So, I believe the next
18 months are going to be the most sig-
nificant months for the small business
community in this history of this Nation.
We want all of you to support it, and as
many of you as can, come to the White
House Conference.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. Good luck to you, and we'll see
some of you next year.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Also at-
tending the ceremony were the winners of the
State and Territorial Small Business Awards
for 1978.
United States Ambassador to
Singapore
Nomination of Richard F. Kneip.
May 2, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard F. Kneip, of
Pierre, S. Dak., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Singa-
pore. He would replace John H. Hold-
ridge, resigned.
Kneip was born January 7, 1933, in
Tyler, Minn. He attended South Dakota
State University and St. John's Univer-
sity. He served in the U.S. Air Force from
1951 to 1955.
From 1962 to 1971, Kneip was owner
of Kneip Sales Inc., a statewide wholesale
milk equipment distributorship. He served
in the South Dakota Senate from 1965 to
1971. Since 1971 he has been Governor of
South Dakota.
821
