May 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Middle East Arms Sales
Statement by the President. May 14, 1978
The question before the United States
Senate tomorrow is crucial to our efforts
to secure a just and lasting peace in the
Middle East. I have been impressed by the
sincere desire of Senators I have talked
with this weekend to rise above partisan-
ship and political concerns. I believe the
Senate will approve the transaction and
thus allow the United States to maintain
our historic commitment to the security of
Israel, while enhancing our ties with
moderate Arabs who also seek peace and
stability in that region.
United States Circuit Judge
Nominating Commission
Executive Order 12059. May 11, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution and
statutes of the United States of America,
in order to clarify and amend the respon-
sibilities of the various panels of the
United States Circuit Judge Nominating
Commission and to continue the Commis-
sion, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment of the Com-
mission. There is hereby established the
United States Circuit Judge Nominating
Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the "Commission"). The Commission
shall be composed of thirteen panels, each
of which shall, upon the request of the
President, recommend for nomination as
circuit judges persons whose character,
experience, ability and commitment to
equal justice under law, fully qualify
them to serve in the Federal judiciary.
Except as indicated below, each panel
shall serve a geographic area set forth in
28 U.S.C. 41. The panels shall be as
follows:
(1) Panel for the District of Columbia
Circuit;
(2) Panel for the First Circuit;
(3) Panel for the Second Circuit;
(4) Panel for the Third Circuit;
(5) Panel for the Fourth Circuit;
cuit, for the States of Alabama, Florida,
(6) Panel for the Eastern Fifth Cir-
Georgia and Mississippi;
(7) Panel for the Western Fifth Cir-
cuit, for the States of Louisiana and
Texas, and the Canal Zone;
(8) Panel for the Sixth Circuit;
(9) Panel for the Seventh Circuit;
(10) Panel for the Eighth Circuit;
(11) Panel for the Southern Ninth Cir-
cuit, for the States of Arizona, California,
and Nevada;
(12) Panel for the Northern Ninth Cir-
cuit, for the States of Alaska, Hawaii,
Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washing-
ton, and the Territory of Guam; and
(13) Panel for the Tenth Circuit.
A panel shall be designated as, e.g., the
"United States Circuit Judge Nominating
Panel for the First Circuit."
SEC. 2. Membership. (a) The member-
ship of the Commission shall consist of the
combined memberships of the panels. The
President may appoint a member of the
Commission as its Chairman, with such
duties as the President may assign.
(b) A panel shall be composed of a
Chairman and such other members as the
President may appoint;
(c) Each panel shall include members
of both sexes and members of minority
groups, and each panel shall include at
least one lawyer from each State within
a panel's area of responsibility.
(d) All members of the panel for the
District of Columbia Circuit shall be per-
sons residing within the District of Co-
lumbia or within twenty miles of its
boundaries.
910
