Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
stand for among the other nations of the
world.
In my own acceptance speech at the
Democratic National Convention, in my
inauguration speech, I promised the
American people that when I was Presi-
dent that the principle of human rights
would again be raised as a banner behind
which American people could rally and
of which American people would again
be proud.
And this is what we have tried to do.
It's a difficult and sensitive issue, because
it's easy to say you're for human rights
but it's difficult to force other nations
over whom you have no control to honor
the principles of human rights. We've
made very good progress.
I welcomed the new Ambassador, for
instance, the other day, from Indonesia.
This past winter, this winter, I think in
December, Indonesia released 10,000
political prisoners. Some of the countries
in South America who have been domi-
nated by military dictatorships have now
committed themselves to have democratic
elections.
I don't believe there's a single leader in
a country in the world who doesn't think
frequently, or even constantly, about the
question of human rights: "How is the
world going to judge me in how I treat
the citizens who are ruled by my admin-
istration?" We've made good progress
already. But I think the restoration of
that decency and common sense and hu-
manity and morality to our own Govern-
ment is the only thing that can hold us
together.
And when you think back through his-
tory, even the most unpopular Presidents
now are the ones that are identified as
being the greatest. And they were the ones
that made difficult decisions based on the
principles of religion that you described.
Abraham Lincoln was probably excori-
ated or criticized most by the press of al-
most any President who ever served, but
he did what he thought was right. Harry
Truman's popularity went down to 23
percent the lowest that any President
has ever had-but he did it because he
thought it was right to begin giving black
people a chance to have equal treatment
in the Armed Forces, not popular in the
South.
He wanted to restore Europe with a
great financial aid that came from the
taxpayers' pockets in this country, not a
popular thing at all. He gave aid to Tur-
key and Greece. He organized the United
Nations. And now, I think it's generally
accepted that Harry Truman is one of
our great Presidents.
I don't consider that they were great
because of something within them, and
the same thing applies to me. But I think
the greatness comes from accurately ex-
emplifying, in the White House, the
highest principles of the American people.
And the demands that you make, the di-
rect involvement that you have as young
people in government, will help to re-
store those standards, make them more
rigid and more demanding. And I think
whether or not an incumbent officeholder
is a mayor or a Governor or a Senator or
a President, Democratic or Republican,
that you ought to demand the utmost in
ethics, integrity, and morality from them.
If they don't measure up to your stand-
ards, I hope you'll work as hard as you
can to put somebody else in office.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NATIONAL ENERGY PLAN
Q. Good morning, Mr. President, and
welcome to New Hampshire. My name is
Carol Ann Mongeon, and I'm from New-
market, New Hampshire, and I go to
Newmarket High School. My question is,
Mr. President, do you feel that in 1978 an
376
