Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Wyoming
GEORGE ELIOPULOS, Cheyenne
MARGARET MINER, Cheyenne
Americans living abroad
MARIE FRANCES DEER, APO New York
GREGORY VANSUCH, APO New York
Passover
Statement by the President. April 21, 1978
In Jewish tradition and practice, to-
night is the night that is different from all
other nights: the beginning of Passover,
the Festival of Freedom.
Passover commemorates a particular
struggle in a particular time and place.
But its meaning is universal. It is a re-
minder to all of us-Jews and non-Jews
alike—that the struggle for freedom and
against oppression must forever be re-
newed.
Little more than a generation ago, the
Holocaust-perhaps the cruelest chapter
in the long history of man's inhumanity
to man-took the lives of 6 million men,
women, and children. And 35 years ago
today, in the streets of the Warsaw
Ghetto, Jewish fighters rose up in arms
against their Nazi oppressors. We must
never forget the reality and meaning of
the Holocaust, or of the heroic resistance
against it.
On behalf of the American people, I
have committed myself and my admin-
istration to the cause of human rights.
That commitment will remain firm.
In Jewish homes all over the world-
in Israel, in Eastern and Western Europe,
in the Soviet Union, in Latin America,
and here in the United States-families
and friends will gather tonight for the
ceremony of the Seder. As they do, I greet
them and assure them that the love of
freedom they celebrate is shared by all
the people of the United States.
President's Commission on
Foreign Language and
International Studies
Executive Order 12054. April 21, 1978
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President by the Constitution and stat-
utes of the United States of America, and
in accordance with the provisions of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App. I), it is hereby ordered as
follows:
SECTION 1. Establishment. (a) There is
hereby established the President's Com-
mission on Foreign Language and Inter-
national Studies, hereinafter referred to
as the Commission.
(b) The Commission shall consist of
not more than twenty-five members to be
appointed by the President, one of whom
shall be designated by the President to
chair the Commission.
SEC. 2. Functions. (a) The Commission
shall conduct such public hearings, in-
quiries, and studies as may be necessary to
make recommendations to the President
and the Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare in accordance with the ob-
jectives of the Commission outlined in
subsection (b) of this Section.
(b) The objectives of the Commission
shall be to:
(1) Recommend means for directing
public attention to the importance of for-
eign language and international studies
for the improvement of communications
and understanding with other nations in
an increasingly interdependent world;
(2) Assess the need in the United States
for foreign language and area specialists,
ways in which foreign language and inter-
national studies contribute to meeting
these needs, and the job market for indi-
viduals with these skills.
(3) Recommend what foreign language
area studies programs are appropriate at
766
