Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
expected that two-thirds of the world's
population, even more, will live in Asia,
Africa, and Latin America.
We want every child to be a wanted
child, and we realize that already three of
every five children in the developing
world do not receive the basic requisites
of a healthy diet, and nearly two-thirds of
the world's population in the Third
World do not have access to water that is
safe to drink.
These conditions and others offend the
conscience of mankind, for the human
rights we believe in so deeply include not
only the right to be free and to avoid
mistreatment from government but also
the right to a fair chance for a decent life.
Throughout the world, the fruits of
growth have been very unequally distrib-
uted. Among nations and within nations,
wealth coexists with abject poverty and
suffering.
Our economic progress is inadequate if
its benefits do not reach all the people.
Rich and poor nations alike should devote
more attention to raising the minimum
standards of living for the poorest of our
fellow human beings.
The United States will increase its
efforts, particularly in those countries
where governments are themselves most
committed to meeting the basic needs of
their people for health, education, shelter,
and to
to increasing their own food
production.
We will contribute, for instance, a
minimum of 4.5 million tons of grain to a
new food aid convention. We support
the international food aid target of 10
million tons, and we are willing to join
other nations in increasing the amount,
particularly in years of severe food
shortages.
As for the political liberties that are
also part of basic human rights, we be-
lieve that democracy provides the best
system to attain this goal and that the in-
ternational community has a special re-
sponsibility to support countries that are
moving to institute democratic proce-
dures and institutions.
There can be no question that the in-
stitutions we have created must adapt to
a changing and diverse world. And that is
our third goal.
The individuality and the sovereignty
of nations must be respected. Interven-
tion in the internal affairs of others must
be opposed.
There must also be a reversal in the
massive and excessive weapons sales that
are being made from my own and from
other industrialized countries to the
poorer nations, which still have profound
and unmet social and economic needs.
Just as all people should participate in
the government decisions that affect their
own lives, so should all nations participate
in the international decisions that affect
their own well-being.
The United States is eager to work with
you, as we have in the past, to shape a
more just international economic and
political order.
Both the industrialized nations, which
have greater influence in institutions like
the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank, and the developing nations,
with great influence in organizations
like the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, must share the
responsibility for opening the interna-
tional system to different views.
The Conference on International Eco-
nomic Cooperation, in which Venezuela,
as you know, played such a major and
pivotal role, was a useful start toward the
global dialog which we seek. A newly
created committee of the United Nations
General Assembly will carry on that work.
As we move toward an improved inter-
national economic order, we must think
beyond institutions and measure the im-
pact of change on the daily lives of people.
622
