Jan. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
opinion, it's too high. It's approaching 23
percent. And by the time I go out of
office, I would like to have that down
to no more than 21 percent. And also
with the encroachment of inflation, it
moves people into a higher tax bracket
with paying a higher percentage of their
income in taxes just because their dol-
lars that they earn are cheaper and they
get more of them.
So, with inflation, you have, in effect,
the imposition of higher and higher tax
rates to the American people if the laws
don't change. So, for that reason also,
I want to reduce the rate of taxes paid
by the American people.
So, I think that a substantial tax re-
duction is needed in 1978, and I believe
the Congress will agree. So, we intend
to do all three things, to compensate for
increases in social security tax, to keep the
economy moving strongly, and also to
compensate for the effects of inflation.
STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
Q. Mr. President, when talking about
the aggravation of oil imports, the U.S.
Government's strategic petroleum stock-
pile—I think your decision is to acquire
1 billion barrels of oil-
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. on the world market. Now,
the GAO and others have recom-
mended that we use oil we already
own, in the Elk Hills Naval Petroleum
Reserve, and that would save, I think,
as you're going now, to about $20 billion
you're going to spend in foreign oil. We
could reduce this by half, a $10 billion sav-
ing if we used our existing naval supplies.
Why don't we do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are, in ef-
fect, increasing the production of Ameri-
can oil to cut down on the amount that
we have to purchase. At Elk Hills, at
Teapot Dome, we're trying to increase
the importing of oil to the continental
United States from Alaska. We're trying
to maintain the production of oil, sour oil,
to some degree in California, in addition
to reducing overall consumption of oil
and energy and shifting to coal.
And at the same time, it's very im-
portant to us to have stability in the world
oil market and protect us from some in-
terruption in the future over which we
have no control.
So, we've set a goal for ourselves that
by 1985, we'll have a billion barrels of
oil stored in a secure place in salt
domes in the United States so that we
can have an 8- or 10-month supply in
case overseas oil is interrupted in coming
to us.
So, the sum total of what we propose
is to do exactly what you describe.
Whether domestic oil actually goes into
the supply system of our country and for-
eign oil goes into the underground stor-
age is really of no consequence, because
the overall consumption of oil plus the im-
port or use of oil to build up our re-
serves is the factor that controls how
much we import.
Q. Well, my question is—what it goes
to the point of the $10 billion savings.
We already own the Elk Hills naval oil
reserve.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when we sell
that oil, if it's on the commercial market,
the Federal Treasury gets the money back
for that oil. So, there's just really swap-
ping dollars. It may be very difficult to
transport the oil from Elk Hills and iden-
tify a particular gallon or barrel of oil that
has to go into a salt dome in Louisiana.
Q. Well, they talked about swap ar-
rangements, particularly with Japan. Ja-
pan would be very happy to have that
very sweet Elk Hills oil, and they'd give
us their Mideast oil.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. But
we're trying to do what I've just said,
60
