Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 21
sults in an annual revenue loss to the
Treasury of $8 billion.
Taxpayers in the highest income brack-
ets are granted an additional tax prefer-
ence over and above the special capital
gains deduction. Individuals above the 50
percent tax bracket can take advantage of
a 25 percent tax ceiling on the first $50,-
000 of capital gains, a provision known as
the "alternative tax." The benefits of this
provision go exclusively to persons with
taxable incomes exceeding $52,000 (if
filing a joint return) or $38,000 (if filing
a single return)—less than one percent of
all taxpayers.
Through the alternative tax, a wealthy
investor can shield nearly 65 percent of his
capital gains from taxation—a benefit that
is grossly inequitable when middle-class
investors are taxed on one-half of such
gains, and most workers are taxed on
every cent of their wages and salaries.
The alternative tax costs the Treasury
over $100 million every year, almost 90
percent of which goes to taxpayers in in-
come classes above $100,000. I propose
the repeal of this unfair and complicated
tax benefit.
Fringe Benefits Unavailable to Rank-and-
File Workers
Our tax system generally operates under
the principle that employees should be
taxed on their compensation no matter
what form that compensation assumes. A
worker who receives cash wages that he
uses to provide benefits for his family
should not ordinarily be taxed more
heavily than the employee who receives
those benefits directly from his employer.
There are now exceptions to this general
rule for certain types of employee bene-
fits. I urge Congress to act so that these
tax preferences benefit rank-and-file work-
ers as well as the executive officers.
(1) Non-discrimination Requirement
for Health and Group Life Plans. An ex-
ample of a tax-preferred employee bene-
fit is a health or group life insurance plan.
If an individual purchases medical in-
surance, the premiums are deductible only
within the limits applicable to the medical
expense deduction. However, if an em-
ployer establishes a medical insurance
program for its employees, the premium
payments by the employer are deductible
while neither the premiums nor the bene-
fits are taxable to the employee.
Although this tax preference was de-
signed in theory to secure basic protec-
tions for a wide range of employees, it
often serves instead to subsidize expenses
of only the high-level corporate managers.
It is now possible for a businessman,
through his controlled corporation, to
establish a health plan that covers only
one employee-himself—and permits all
of his medical and dental expenses to be
deducted. Meanwhile, that corporation's
other employees have to provide health
care for their families with nondeductible
expenditures.
To curb this abuse, I recommend denial
of the tax exemption for employer-estab-
lished medical, disability, and group life
insurance plans if those plans discriminate
in favor of officers, shareholders, and
higher-paid employees. Preferential tax
treatment is now available to pension
plans only if non-discrimination standards
are met. The tax law should require sim-
ilar non-discriminatory treatment for
workers in the case of medical, disability,
and group life insurance plans.
(2) Employee Death Benefits. Current
law provides an exclusion for the first
$5,000 of payments made by an employer
on account of the death of an employee. I
recommend the repeal of this exclusion.
Typically, these death benefits are in the
nature of deferred wages that would have
been paid to employees in high tax brack-
ets. Adequate tax relief for an employee's
heirs is provided through a complete tax
169
