Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 13
United States Parole Commission
Nomination of Oliver J. Keller, Jr., To Be a
Commissioner. June 12, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Oliver J. Keller, Jr., of
Gainesville, Fla., to be a Commissioner
of the United States Parole Commission
for a 6-year term. He would replace
George Reed, retired.
Keller was born April 21, 1923, in Lan-
caster, Pa. He received a B.A. from Wil-
liams College in 1947 and an M.A. in so-
ciology from Northern Illinois University
in 1965. He served in the U.S. Navy from
1943 to 1946 and from 1950 to 1951.
From 1951 to 1959, Keller was vice
president and sales manager for a Spring-
field, Ill., radio station. In 1960 and 1961,
he was chairman of the Illinois Youth
Commission, and from 1961 to 1963, he
was a commissioner on that commission,
serving primarily as a member of the pa-
role board for juveniles.
From 1963 to 1967, Keller was a spe-
cial fellow at the University of Chicago,
and from 1965 to 1967, he was a research
fellow at the university's Center for Stud-
ies in Criminal Justice.
Keller was director of the Florida Di-
vision of Youth Services from 1967 to
1973, a centralized juvenile delinquency
prevention and corrections agency. From
1973 to 1975, he was secretary of the
Florida Department of Health and Reha-
bilitative Services. Since 1975 Keller has
been a visiting professor of criminal jus-
tice studies at the University of Florida.
He is also project director of Project Di-
version, a federally funded project which
places volunteers on a one-to-one "older
friend" basis with juveniles charged with
law violations.
Keller is the author of numerous arti-
cles and is a member of many professional
associations and councils.
Visit of Prime Minister
Morarji Desai of India
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
June 13, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister Desai,
distinguished visitors from the great na-
tion of India:
It's with a great deal of pleasure that
I welcome you to our country as friends
and as counselors, sharing with us deep
commitments which have historically
bound our nations together in peace and
friendship.
One of the most significant political
events of this decade was the vivid re-
affirmation in India, in the past election,
of democratic principles and the rule of
law. India enjoys the prestige of having
the largest free electorate in the history of
the entire world, a tremendous demo-
cratic nation dedicated to the principles
which are vividly demonstrated by Prime
Minister Desai.
He is a man of courage in protecting
those principles in which he believes so
deeply. Along with Mahatma Gandhi and,
later, Prime Minister Nehru, Prime Min-
ister Desai was willing to suffer in prison
as a fruitful demonstration of his com-
mitment to those principles which he still
protects with his actions and with his
deeds. He's a man who frequently says
that the means to an end are just as im-
portant as the end itself. He abides
strictly by his deep-felt standards of con-
duct and ethics. Recently on an interview
in our country, he says that one cannot
use untruth to further truth, and one
cannot dispel darkness with darkness.
When I was in India a few months ago,
Prime Minister Desai and I issued a care-
fully prepared declaration of common
principles designed to spell out in clear
terms the common beliefs and common
purposes of our two nations.
1083
