Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment Operations Committee, under the
leadership of Congressman Jack Brooks.
We look forward to working very closely
with them and their able staffs through
the statutory process of congressional
deliberation and evaluation of these
proposals.
I think you can all tell from the evi-
dence exhibited by the electronics media
that we have a very busy group of people
assembled with us today.¹ [Laughter] I
hope that they will be equally busy ensur-
ing that the Congress approves these reor-
ganization plans.
I have two documents to sign. They are
fairly brief, about eight pages each,
double-spaced, and they describe in clear
terms the structural changes as I've out-
lined to you. As you know, under the
reorganization legislation that Congress
passed last year, I present the plan to
Congress and unless it is vetoed by Con-
gress with a 30-day [60-day] period of
working days, the plans automatically go
into effect.
This plan has some controversial ele-
ments in it. It's been carefully negotiated
among the EEOC, the Labor Depart-
ment, the Civil Service Commission, the
congressional committees, their staffs,
and the interested groups who are so
deeply dedicated to equal employment in
our country.
And it's with a great deal of pleasure
and anticipation of complete success that
I now sign the reorganization plans
which will be presented to the Congress
tomorrow.
[At this point, the President signed the
documents.]
Thank you very much. In the future,
in order to enhance my own stature in a
crowd, I'm going to have my secretary
1 The President was referring to the noise
being made by a paging device carried by a
person attending the ceremony.
call me during the middle of a ceremony.
[Laughter]
One thing I'd like to add is—I didn't
see him when I came in because of the
group on the stage-but it would be in-
appropriate not to recognize the fact that
Senator Ted Kennedy is here. And I will
assume that he represents his great
brother, who was the foremost leader in
the enhancement of civil rights in our
country.
Ted, we're glad to have you with us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Enforcement
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978.
February 23, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting to you today Reorga-
nization Plan No. 1 of 1978. This Plan
makes the Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission the principal Federal
agency in fair employment enforcement.
Together with actions I shall take by Ex-
ecutive Order, it consolidates Federal
equal employment opportunity activities
and lays, for the first time, the foundation
of a unified, coherent Federal structure
to combat job discrimination in all its
forms.
In 1940 President Roosevelt issued the
first Executive Order forbidding discrim-
ination in employment by the Federal gov-
ernment. Since that time the Congress,
the courts and the Executive Branch-
spurred by the courage and sacrifice of
many people and organizations—have
taken historic steps to extend equal em-
ployment opportunity protection through-
i
1
400
