Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 14
stantial tax cut for American citizens and
businesses for this coming year, to begin
or to be effective the 1st of October.
I think it's a well-balanced budget. We
used zero-based budgeting techniques in
every department, every agency. It worked
out well for us. I think it will get even
better in subsequent years because of
experience with it. We are concerned
about some of the pockets of unemploy-
ment, particularly among young minority
groups-in fact, young people of all races.
But we'll be emphasizing this during this
coming year.
I'm consulting with both congressional
leaders and business, labor leaders, trying
to get as much harmony as possible within
our democratic institutions-democratic
with a small “d.” And we have, I think,
a need to recognize what a strong, viable,
productive, progressive, great country we
have.
Quite often we tend to emphasize
overly, I believe, the disharmonies and the
debates and the contentious, transient
issues, because that's where the news lies.
But I think pervading all the conscious-
ness of America, and also the conscious-
ness of the outside world as they look at
us, is the realization of our strength. And
this, of course, relates directly to our sys-
tem of government and our system of free
enterprise and the confidence that the
people have in our institutions, govern-
ment and otherwise.
I've enjoyed being President this first
year, almost a year now, and look forward
to the next one. I think I've learned a lot.
We've got along well with the Congress,
and for our first year of the term, I think
we've done a good job in keeping the
promises that I made.
A lot of people say, "Well, you prom-
ised this, and you've been in office a whole
year now and haven't done it." And I
think it's obvious that many of the things
are so longstanding and so difficult that
you can't possibly expect miraculous and
instant results. But I'm pleased with what
we've attempted and especially pleased at
the cooperation the Congress has given to
me.
I'd be glad to answer any questions that
you have now in the limited time we have
available.
QUESTIONS
GOVERNMENT REFORM
Q. Mr. President, as a candidate for the
Presidency, one of your great assets was
the fact that you weren't a member of the
Washington establishment and, therefore,
gave your supporters the hope that you
could raise the level of our Government
above the morass of bureaucratic redtape
and cynicism.
Mr. President, after a year in office,
what are the possibilities of you or any
new President improving our form of gov-
ernment and getting it above this business
of "government of the people for the bu-
reaucrat and by the bureaucrat"?
THE PRESIDENT. I think one of the
most frequent criticisms that has been
made of me and my own administration is
not becoming a part of the Washington
establishment. [Laughter] If you read the
local news media, you see that that's one
of the things that we haven't been assimi-
lated into the social structure and so
forth of Washington.
We've made some, I think, good im-
provements in the organizational struc-
ture of Government. We formed a new
Department of Energy. We've eliminated
now, I think, about 400 agencies and com-
missions, advisory boards, and so forth,
that were unnecessary. We've gotten au-
thorization from the Congress for a much
more substantive reorganization effort to
be concluded within a 3-year period.
69
