Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 20
Forest timber which he determines to be
in the public interest. It is also clear that
he may test alternative bidding methods
or prescribe changes in bidding methods
from time to time to meet overall public
objectives.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1360 is Public Law
95-233, approved February 20.
Wilmington, Delaware
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner for Senator
Joseph R. Biden, Jr. February 20, 1978
It's a real delight for me to come back
to the first State in the Nation and to
campaign and to express my apprecia-
tion to people who support the first
United States Senator who had confi-
dence in me. He's a man who's not afraid
to take on a difficult task and even a
hopeless task. He and Frank ¹ came down
to Atlanta, the first time I met Joe Biden,
in 1974, to speak to a State Jaycee con-
vention. And we had a chance to talk for
several hours at the Governor's mansion.
I felt a little bit ill at ease. I thought
that Joe should have been talking to my
children instead of to me. [Laughter] He's
about my oldest son's age. But I sat and
listened to Joe for 2 or 3 hours that night,
talking about his own campaign and the
kind of people who helped him and the
mechanism that he used in Delaware to
win what apparently was a hopeless po-
litical battle. And he expressed to me then
his deep confidence in the Delaware peo-
ple and a sense that if he could reach them
directly, even on a shoestring budget and
without any substantial media advertis-
ing, that he felt that I could do the same
on a nationwide basis.
I was so intrigued with Joe that I de-
parted from my normal practice, which
is to be polite and then withdraw, and I
went to the Jaycee convention with him
1 Senator Biden's brother.
that night, and I listened to his speech.
And he talked about the need for gov-
ernment to be competent. He talked
about the need for government not to in-
trude itself into the free enterprise sys-
tem. He talked about the need for tough
business management of budgets, and he
talked about the need to eliminate un-
necessary paperwork. And he described to
those Jaycees, who were quite conserva-
tive in Georgia, the essence of what our
Nation was and could be.
That was at the time of greatest de-
spair. It was a time of Watergate. It was
a time when Vietnam was on the con-
science and consciousness of every Ameri-
can. It was a time when the CIA revela-
tions were just beginning, and it was a
time when people had forgotten about
lifting a banner high and arousing the
spirit and the confidence and the dedica-
tion and the warmth and legitimate pride
in what our Nation was when Delaware
was the first State to start its evolution
toward success.
I learned a lot from him then. And I
didn't ask Joe Biden to do much more
than to head up a national committee as
an honorary title, which he did, and to
help me in Delaware, which he did; for
when I would go to Wisconsin and say,
"What can I do in this city to explain my
position," they would say, "Well, you don't
have to explain your position. Joe Biden's
already done it for you.”
And when I would campaign through
Pennsylvania in those tough days when
Pennsylvania was the crucial primary,
Joe Biden spent three times as many days
and nights in Pennsylvania campaigning
for me as I spent campaigning for myself.
Well, he's the kind of friend who is in-
spirational and staunch, and he's the kind
of young man who represents the finest
things in American life and in American
politics, and he's the kind of young man
who is independent almost to a fault.
[Laughter] He makes up his own mind,
385
