Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
(f) United States Government pro-
grams for safeguarding nuclear materials
or facilities; or
(g) other categories of information
which are related to national security and
which require protection against unau-
thorized disclosure as determined by the
President, by a person designated by the
President pursuant to Section 1–201, or
by an agency head.
1-302. Even though information is de-
termined to concern one or more of the
criteria in Section 1-301, it may not be
classified unless an original classification
authority also determines that its unau-
thorized disclosure reasonably could be
expected to cause at least identifiable
damage to the national security.
1-303. Unauthorized disclosure of for-
eign government information or the iden-
tity of a confidential foreign source is
presumed to cause at least identifiable
damage to the national security.
1-304. Each determination under the
criterion of Section 1-301 (g) shall be re-
ported promptly to the Director of the
Information Security Oversight Office.
1-4. Duration of Classification.
1-401. Except as permitted in Section
1-402, at the time of the original classi-
fication each original classification au-
thority shall set a date or event for auto-
matic declassification no more than six
years later.
1-402. Only officials with Top Secret
classification authority and agency heads
listed in Section 1-2 may classify infor-
mation for more than six years from the
date of the original classification. This
authority shall be used sparingly. In such
cases, a declassification date or event, or
a date for review, shall be set. This date
or event shall be as early as national se-
curity permits and shall be no more than
twenty years after original classification,
except that for foreign government infor-
mation the date or event may be up to
thirty years after original classification.
1-5. Identification and Markings.
fication, the following shall be shown on
1-501. At the time of original classi-
the face of paper copies of all classified
documents:
(a) the identity of the original classi-
fication authority;
(b) the office of origin;
(c) the date or event for declassifica-
tion or review; and
(d) one of the three classification
designations defined in Section 1–1.
1-502. Documents classified for more
than six years shall also be marked with
the identity of the official who authorized
the prolonged classification. Such docu-
ments shall be annotated with the reason
the classification is expected to remain
necessary, under the requirements of Sec-
tion 1-3, despite the passage of time. The
reason for the prolonged classification
may be stated by reference to criteria set
forth in agency implementing regula-
tions. These criteria shall explain in nar-
rative form the reason the information
needs to be protected beyond six years.
If the individual who signs or otherwise
authenticates a document also is author-
ized to classify it, no further annotation
of identity is required.
1-503. Only the designations pre-
scribed by this Order may be used to
identify classified information. Markings
such as "For Official Use Only" and
"Limited Official Use" may not be used
for that purpose. Terms such as "Confer-
ence" or "Agency" may not be used in
conjunction with the classification desig-
nations prescribed by this Order; e.g.,
"Agency Confidential" or "Conference
Confidential."
1-504. In order to facilitate excerpt-
ing and other uses, each classified docu-
ment shall, by marking or other means,
1197
