Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
In their review of the International ec-
onomic situation, the two Heads of State
stressed the urgent need for measures to
secure a prosperous, just and equitable
international economic order. The two
leaders placed special emphasis on the
importance of close consultations between
Nigeria and the United States in the
North-South Economic Dialogue and in
the work of the General Assembly. They
agreed on the value of the United Nations
Overview Committee dialogue in en-
hancing an understanding of global issues
of common concern and in promoting
development cooperation. They appealed
to all nations to strive vigorously for the
achievement of the goals specified in the
Seventh Special Session of the United Na-
tions General Assembly, in particular with
respect to issues of vital importance to
the developing countries. In this regard,
Lt. General Obasanjo invited attention
to the slow pace of progress concerning
the establishment of the Common Fund
and alleviation of the debt problems of
the developing countries. The two Heads
of State agreed to cooperate in order to
intensify action within the United Na-
tions system towards finding solutions to
the problem of global inflation.
The two leaders discussed the United
Nations Special Session on Disarmament
which opens in May of 1978. As leaders of
countries which have played a significant
role in United Nations disarmament mat-
ters, both Heads of State agreed that the
session should provide a stimulus to fur-
ther concrete disarmament efforts.
The two Heads of State expressed sat-
isfaction at the progress that had been
made in recent discussions between the
two Governments on bilateral coopera-
tion in economic, commercial and tech-
nical fields and agreed to further
strengthen relations in these areas. Mu-
tual efforts will be made to expand and
diversify trade and development activities
and to facilitate investment in areas of key
importance to Nigeria's economic growth.
For this purpose the two leaders agreed to
set up joint working groups on investment
and trade, technology transfer, agricul-
ture and rural development, and
education.
The President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Carter expressed their
profound appreciation to Lt. General
Obasanjo, the Nigerian Government and
all the people of Nigeria for the gracious
hospitality afforded to their party during
their visit to Nigeria.
The President was impressed by the
visible evidence of the pace of Nigerian
economic progress and the vigorous and
determined efforts being undertaken by
the Federal Military Government to pro-
vide for the social and economic develop-
ment of the people of Nigeria.
The President of the United States was
accompanied on his visit to Nigeria by
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, National
Security Council Advisor Zbigniew
Brzezinski, United Nations Ambassador
Andrew Young, Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs Richard Moose,
and a team of senior officials.
His Excellency the Head of State and
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
was attended by Chief of Staff (Supreme
Headquarters) Brigadier S. M. Yar'-
Adua, Commissioner for External Affairs
Brigadier J. N. Garba, Commissioner for
Petroleum Colonel M. Buhari, Federal
Commissioner for Agriculture Mr. B. O.
Mafeni, Commissioner for Economic De-
velopment Dr. O. Adewoye, and a team
of senior officials.
Done at Lagos, this second day of
April, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States of
America
666
