June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
STAINLESS STEEL TABLE FLATWARE
As required under section 203 (b) (2)
of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmit-
ting this report to Congress setting forth
the action I will take with respect to
stainless steel table flatware covered by
the affirmative finding on May 8, 1978 of
the U.S. International Trade Commis-
sion (USITC) under section 201(d) (1)
of the Trade Act. As my action differs
from that recommended by the USITC,
I have included the reasons for my deci-
sion.
After considering all relevant aspects
of the case, including those considerations
set forth in section 202 (c) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I have determined that im-
port relief for the domestic stainless steel
table flatware industry would not be in
the national economic interest for the
following reasons:
1. The imposition of import relief
would not be an effective means to
promote adjustment in the industry. The
dominant firm in the domestic industry
now supplies over half of all domestic
production (almost three quarters in
value terms) and currently utilizes tech-
nologically advanced manufacturing
manufacturing
equipment. This firm, as well as a num-
ber of smaller firms who are operating
profitably, should remain profitable.
2. All the major firms in the industry
have been increasing their amounts of
imports in order to supplement the par-
ticular product lines in which they spe-
cialize and to improve their overall prof-
itability and this trend is expected to
continue.
3. Import relief would discriminate
against low-income purchasers and sub-
stantially increase costs to consumers.
(Under the USITC's recommended
remedy, costs are estimated to increase by
at least $33 million in the first year.)
These costs may increase even further if
the moderating influence that low-price
imports have on the prices of domestic-
ally produced flatware is eliminated. In
a time when we are striving to control
inflation, these costs are too high.
4. This industry has had import relief
in 13 out of the past 20 years. Providing
import relief again would be inconsistent
with the internationally accepted concept
that import relief in escape clause cases
should be of a temporary nature.
5. Employment losses since 1975 have
been small and many of the unemployed
workers are currently receiving Trade
Adjustment Assistance benefits. The
USITC estimates gradually increasing
domestic production of flatware even in
the absence of relief and this should have
a stabilizing effect on the number of jobs
in the industry.
6. Expedited consideration of adjust-
ment petitions from workers, firms, and
communities is still in effect as a result of
the Presidential determination on the
1976 import relief case.
American Stainless Steel Table
Flatware Industry
Memorandum From the President.
June 30, 1978
Memorandum for the Special Represent-
ative for Trade Negotiations
Subject: Determination Under Section
202(b)(1) of the Trade Act; Stainless
Steel Table Flatware
Pursuant to section 202(b) (1) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2252(b)
(1)), I have determined the action I will
take with respect to the report of the
United States International Trade Com-
mission (USITC), transmitted to me on
May 8, 1978, concerning the results of its
1216
