Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
produce coal. But we have seen a rapid
increase in coal production in recent days.
We have no interruptions now with the
nonunion miners producing coal. They
were interrupted before.
We have an increase every day in the
number of union miners who are going
back into the mines. There's been no dis-
ruption recently, since the Taft-Hartley
injunction, in the transfer of coal from
one place to another when it is needed.
And we are continuing to produce a sub-
stantial amount of coal additionally each
day.
So, although the miners have not yet
gone back to work, the Taft-Hartley Act
is working. It's also brought to the bar-
gaining table, without Federal mediators,
which is good, the representatives of the
operators and the miners. And they'd
now worked out a third contract, which
we hope will be accepted. So the Taft-
Hartley Act is working.
ENHANCED RADIATION WEAPON
Q. Mr. President, you talked inside
about maintaining a nuclear balance with
the Soviet Union, and you talked a little
bit about the SALT II negotiations going
on. How does the Soviet demand that we
stop production of neutron bombs fit into
your wanting to maintain a balance?
THE PRESIDENT. The neutron bomb is
not a strategic weapon; it's a tactical
weapon. And it will not change at all the
relative balance of strategic nuclear
power.
The Soviets have used the neutron
bomb issue primarily as a propaganda
item. They are producing new weapons,
like the SS-20, for instance, which has
many, many more times the destructive
power than any neutron bomb that's even
being contemplated and does indeed dis-
turb the balance of tactical forces be-
tween Eastern and Western Europe.
So, the neutron bomb issue has nothing
to do with SALT and does not change
the nuclear balance at all.
ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGN
Q. You spoke favorably of North Caro-
lina as a tobacco-producing State. Does
this mean you're calling Joseph Califano
off the anti-smoking campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Joe Califano has
a responsibility, as the Secretary of HEW,
to protect and enhance the health of
American people. His responsibilities, as
you know, are extremely broad. He is
heading up a major effort, for instance,
to reduce the adverse effect of drugs.
Some drugs are very beneficial; some are
very detrimental. I think we have a $275
million budget for the control of the
adverse effects of drugs on the American
health.
Alcohol is another major threat to
American health. It's beneficial in some
instances. It's well used-and legal-by
many millions of Americans. We have a
$175 million budget to reduce the adverse
effects of alcohol.
Tobacco, in some instances, is damag-
ing to our Nation's health, particularly
among very young children and those
who have respiratory diseases. We have
only a $30 million budget on tobacco in
HEW. This is all that Joe Califano asked
for, and I think that's what he'll get.
Two-thirds of that budget goes for re-
search. And I don't think anyone who
lives in Winston-Salem or North Carolina
or Georgia or other States that produce
tobacco would say that the research pro-
gram in recent years has not been bene-
ficial. So this is a well-balanced program.
I might say that it has nothing to do
at all with the maintenance of the stand-
ard of living or the income or protection
of the 600,000 American families who
produce tobacco. Tobacco is Georgia's
536
