May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
analysis of what I hope to do to cut down
crime in our country and to make our
criminal court system, our entire bar asso-
ciation more responsive to the needs of
our people.
Thank you very much.
Stu Eizenstat is over there with his
hand up. He can get your name and
address.
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Sandra
Felix, and I would like to ask you if you
would elaborate on why you are opposed
to tax credit for college students and spe-
cifically what you would foresee doing
instead.
THE PRESIDENT. All right. I don't think
there's any constitutional prohibition
against tax credits at the college level.
There is, in my opinion and in the
opinion of the Supreme Court, and also
the Attorney General, for elementary and
secondary schools, because people have to
pay taxes to finance those schools.
At the college level, however, I think
that a much more effective way to meet
the needs of the low-, middle-, and even
upper-class families for helping students
go to school is to expand the existing pro-
grams for grants for those who have low
incomes or either a large number of chil-
dren with a moderate income, loans for
students who can pay back those loans
after their college tuition time is over.
And this concentrates the benefits for a
given amount of payment from the Fed-
eral Treasury or loss in tax collections
exactly among those families who need it
most.
Tuition tax credits also don't take into
account the problem that a middle-
income family has if they have two or
three children going to college at the same
time. There's only one tuition tax credit
for a wage earner, whereas the proposi-
tion that I've made to Congress, which is
not any more costly but much more effec-
tive, would let several children in a given
family derive the same benefits with
grants, loans, tuition credits, and other
aids.
So, for a given amount of loss to the
Federal Treasury, you get much more
benefit for students and much more bene-
fit for the kind of family, the average
American family that needs it most.
I have to admit that the very high in-
come family would derive more help from
tuition tax credits, but most American
families would not.
I might say I don't know of a single
college administrator nor a single State
university system leader who favors the
tuition tax credit proposal over the one
that I've just described to you. Educators
at all levels prefer what I've just de-
scribed. It's better for the taxpayers of
our country, it's better for the students
involved, it's better for the colleges, it's
also better for the families who have to
educate those children.
ENHANCED RADIATION WEAPONS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Peter
Hammer. I was just going to ask you a
question about the neutron bomb.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
Q. Are you going to scrap it altogether,
or are you just maybe delaying it for a
while until a better time to bring it out?
My second part of that was, I'd like to
know where your values are at, with
property or with people, because the neu-
tron bomb would have a greater kill
value, but it wouldn't hurt the property.
Are you for that?
THE PRESIDENT.
Thank you.
Good question.
As you may know, Peter, a decision to
go ahead with the design of the neutron
bomb was made before I became Presi-
dent. I didn't know about it until it was
published in the newspaper. And at that
874
