Mar. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Federal Advisory Committees
Announcement on Committee Reductions.
March 28, 1978
President Carter reported today that
the number of Federal advisory commit-
tees dropped last year to 875, the lowest
since the Government started keeping
close track of such groups.
The President ordered a stiff review of
advisory committees a year ago, declaring
that many had outlived their usefulness
or were not providing balanced advice.
The annual report he submitted to Con-
gress on Monday reflected early results of
that executive branch review. It found
that as of last December 31:
-The number had decreased by 284,
the largest cutback in the last 4
years.
-Fewer new committees were estab-
lished in 1977, apart from those
formed by merging existing groups.
Of the 875 still operating, 228 are re-
quired by law.
Those 875 committees compared with
1,439 at the end of 1972. That was the
year in which Congress passed the Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act to control
the number and makeup of committees.
Advisory committees are created by
Congress and Executive order, but prin-
cipally by department and agency heads.
Their cost is estimated at $76 million in
1978.
The report showed substantial progress
toward reaching targets set by the White
House last August. Ninety percent of the
261 committees stated for elimination
were out of business by the end of the
year. The remainder included committees
which can be abolished only by law.
In addition, 92 other committees were
terminated as they finished their work or
were found to be unnecessary.
More than one-third of scheduled com-
mittee consolidations also were accom-
plished, with 111 merged into 30 for a
reduction of 81. Two major consolida-
tions are due for early completion. These
would combine 51 State committees of the
Commission on Civil Rights and 63 dis-
trict committees of the Small Business
Administration into 10 each.
The General Services Administration
has overall responsibility for advisory
committee management. It plans a fur-
ther review this year to carry out the
President's directive that new committees
be established only when essential and
existing groups be terminated when no
longer necessary.
Medic Alert Program
Statement by the President. March 28, 1978
The high quality of medical services in
the United States continues to be a source
of national pride. Too often, however,
we tend to regard the responsibility for
the quality of the medical treatment we
receive as resting solely with health care
professionals. We often overlook our own
responsibility to assure that these profes-
sionals have the information necessary to
provide proper and effective treatment,
especially in emergencies.
For over 20 years, the Medic Alert
Foundation International has dedicated
itself to serving persons with hidden or
special medical problems that cannot
easily be seen or recognized. When, in
time of emergency, its members may be
unable to communicate, the Medic Alert
bracelet or necklace indicates the general
condition. A wallet card provides more
details, and through its unique 24-hour,
worldwide emergency medical answering
system, Medic Alert gives medical per-
sonnel that individual's current situation.
612
