June 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
that the patience and mutual respect
which led to the successful negotiation of
the canal treaties will help countries to
resolve such problems and points of con-
troversy in a mutually helpful way.
-To consult on a regular and con-
tinuous basis on a wide range of inter-
national issues in order to reduce the
differences between national policies and
increase the likelihood of reaching mutual
agreement.
To promote greater respect for human
rights and to widen the scope of interna-
tional action in the defense of human
dignity, they pledge:
-To strengthen the autonomy and
capabilities of the Inter-American Com-
mission on Human Rights.
--To work to bring the American Con-
vention on Human Rights into effect in
this year, the 30th anniversary of the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human Rights. The
leaders viewed with sympathy the offer
made by Costa Rica for San Jose to be
the site of a proposed Inter-American
Court on Human Rights, conscious of the
advantages of this site.
-To speak out for human rights and
fundamental freedoms everywhere and to
work to eliminate repression.
-To facilitate the development of
conditions that would promote democ-
racy with popular and effective partici-
pation. In particular, they express grati-
fication that the will of the people of the
Dominican Republic was freely expressed
in elections last month, and they reiterate
their hope and understanding that the
electoral commission in the Dominican
Republic will adhere faithfully to the
integrity of the democratic process.
-To work through international orga-
nizations to strengthen the juridical foun-
dations of political, social, and economic
rights.
To move forward toward a more just
and equitable international economic
system and to insure that ongoing multi-
lateral negotiations, including those on
the Common Fund and debt, are pursued
expeditiously with the goal of bringing
concrete and significant results for the
benefit of all countries, particularly for
the developing countries, and to help
raise the living standards of the world's
poor, they pledge:
-To help alleviate hunger and pov-
erty by emphasizing food production and
studying the implications of rapid popu-
lation growth.
-To complete the work of the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva
and thereby reduce trade barriers and
increase the participation of developing
countries in an improved world trading
system.
-To seek ways to improve the effi-
ciency, growth, equity, and stability of
commodity markets, and to seek to bring
into effect the International Sugar Agree-
ment, the International Coffee Agree-
ment, and other commodity agreements
which will have the purpose of establish-
ing fair prices for the products of devel-
oping countries. In particular, they con-
sider that the achievement of equita-
ble agreements of this character will
strengthen political stability and promote
regional solidarity and will benefit both
producers and consumers of such
products.
-To support fully the work and capi-
tal replenishments of the Inter-American
Development Bank and the World Bank.
-To give full support to the Carib-
bean Group for Cooperation in Eco-
nomic Development and in other ways to
encourage the economic development of
the region.
They also wish to express their strong
support for negotiations in the United
Nations toward the conclusion of a
treaty prohibiting bribery and illicit pay-
ments in international transactions.
1124
