Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
States Senate in a much more responsible
job.
Obviously, a U.S. Senator has more
impact as one person on our Nation's at-
titudes and perhaps its welfare than one
individual coal miner would. But that
doesn't mean that coal miners as a collec-
tive group are not very important.
I think each person in the eyes of God
is of equal importance. And I would guess
that many coal miners, if they never go
away from their homes more than 10
miles, could do as many or more great
things in the eyes of God and their fami-
lies and those who know them than even
a President could. So it's hard to say
would be the greatest.
DEFAULT ON STUDENT LOANS
who
Q. Mr. President, my name is Cathy
Lewis, and I'm a resident of Veazie,
Maine. My question for you is, with the
recent news concerning defaulted govern-
mental educational loans, will there be
new and stricter requirements when
applying for a Government-guaranteed
loan?
THE PRESIDENT. For college educa-
tion?
Q. Yes.
The President. The answer is yes. In
the comparison of Federal employees'
names with students who have deliber-
ately defaulted on loans, we've found
many people who are now drawing a
good Government salary who just did not
pay their student loan. And Joe Califano
is now requiring those Federal employees
to pay off their loan without working a
hardship on them and their families be-
cause of too high a payment per month.
One of the things that has endangered
the entire college aid program has been
the deliberate cheating by college stu-
dents off the taxpayers when they signed
a contract, "If you will lend me money to
get my college education, I will repay it
and let that money go to help another
student." And because of a loophole in
the law, many students would finish col-
lege and immediately declare bankruptcy
so they would not have to repay the loan.
I don't have any sympathy for a student
who does that on purpose. And I think we
ought to do everything we can to collect
those loans when they've been made in
good faith and received in good faith, be-
cause the ones who suffer are the taxpay-
ers in general and also other students who
could benefit if that first student did his
or her duty.
THE PRESIDENCY
Q. My name is Sharon Corvey, and I
live in Bangor.
Mr. President, I am a second grade
teacher at the Abraham Lincoln School
in Bangor.
My class and Donna Chappitt's class
have been studying about the many facets
of a President's job. Our second grade
children would like to ask these ques-
tions: What part of your job is the hard-
est? What part of your job do you enjoy
the most? And do you get dizzy flying in
Air Force One? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Can I take my choice?
[Laughter] No, I don't get dizzy flying in
Air Force One. Sometimes on a long trip
with a lot of stops and not much rest and
time zones changing, you know, I can't
say that I'm particularly in charge of all
my faculties. But I don't really get dizzy.
[Laughter] I think the most enjoyable
thing that I have to do as President is just
to realize the tremendous history that has
preceded me in the White House and
what our Nation stands for and the diffi-
culties and challenges that have faced the
American people, and the courage and
strength and the cohesiveness of Amer-
icans in overcoming those difficulties.
Every single President has lived in the
White House, except George Washington.
357
