Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
The thrust of their study, in addition to
what I've just described, is again on the
prevention of mental illness of all kinds.
Research and development will be greatly
enhanced. The cohesion of Federal pro-
grams that presently are scattered all over
the Federal Government into one central
organizational structure is another rec-
ommendation.
There are in all 117 specific recom-
mendations that have been put to me.
My desire is to carry out all of them. And
the best lobbyist in the United States will
be there with me every day and alongside
of me every night to remind me that I
have a responsibility to the mentally ill
people of this country. So, I think we are
going to see a new day in mental health
in our Nation.
One of the biggest problems that Ros-
alynn identified in traveling around the
country was the so-called stigma that is
attached to people who have mental ill-
nesses. Now, about one out of seven
American people need mental treatment.
And quite often-even perhaps some of
you have been reluctant to admit that
those who have suffered in the past or
presently suffer from mental illness are
good citizens and can be good employees
and can be good neighbors.
So, just the acceptance of these people
into our arms and into our hearts as those
who are worthy, do have a problem, in
almost every instance temporary, and can
be constructive and good citizens in the
future if we care for them, is the main
benefit that I believe we'll derive from
this study and from the implementation
of it.
We know that there must be a close
relationship between government at all
levels and the private citizenry of our
country, but there also must be a close re-
lationship between those who treat phys-
ical illnesses and mental illnesses. Quite
often the two in a single person are closely
interrelated. One becomes physically ill if
mentally ill, and vice versa.
So, I believe that because of this study
and because of my commitment to carry
it out, we're going to see some very good
changes made in the months ahead.
Do I have time for another question?
I'll take it anyhow. Okay.
CANADA
Q. My name is Mike Huber, and, Mr.
President, if Quebec secedes from Can-
ada, would you favor U.S. Statehood
for any of the remaining provinces, should
they desire it?
THE PRESIDENT. I always make a prac-
tice whenever I have a townhall meeting
of this kind to avoid answering at least
one question-[laughter]—and I think
I'll choose your question for that response.
I'll let the Canadian people decide
about the cohesion of their great country,
and when they make a decision, I'll abide
by it.
Let me say in closing this: I've learned
a lot today by being with you. I've got-
ten to know the feeling that you have,
and I've become better able to understand
the concerns that exist in your mind and
the answers to questions that I've not pre-
viously made clear to you. It is very dif-
ficult for a President, in the limited avail-
ability that I have to reach your hearts
and minds through the evening news or
maybe by news conferences twice a month
or brief statements with a fireside chat,
to understand you and to let you under-
stand me.
I think this has been a very construc-
tive meeting. You've honored me by in-
viting me back to Spokane. You live in
one of the most beautiful parts of the
world. And I always feel better as a Presi-
dent when I return to the White House
from a trip like this. I feel closer to you.
I realize again the innate, unchanging
greatness of our country, and I am again
879
