Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 30
being modernized, and the United States
will maintain strategic nuclear equiva-
lence with the Soviet Union.
Our Alliance centers on Europe, but
our vigilance cannot be limited just to
that continent. In recent years expanding
Soviet power has increasingly penetrated
beyond the North Atlantic area.
As I speak today, the activities of the
Soviet Union and Cuba in Africa are
preventing individual nations from deter-
mining their own future. As members of
the world's greatest alliance, we cannot be
indifferent to these events because of what
they mean for Africa and because of their
effect on the long-term interests of the
Alliance itself.
I welcome the efforts of individual
NATO Allies to work for peace in Africa
and to support nations and people in
need, most recently in Zaire.
Our Alliance has never been an end in
itself. It is a way to promote stability and
peace in Europe and, indeed, peace in the
world at large.
Our strength has made possible the
pursuit of détente and agreements to
limit arms, while increasing the security of
the Alliance. Defense in Europe, East-
West détente, and global diplomacy all go
hand in hand. Never before has a defen-
sive alliance devoted so much effort to ne-
gotiate limitations and reductions in ar-
maments with its potential adversaries.
Our record has no equal in the search for
effective arms control agreements.
The United States continues to move
forward in its negotiations with the Soviet
Union on a new agreement to limit and
reduce strategic nuclear weapons. Our ob-
jective is to preserve and advance the se-
curity of all the members of our Alliance.
We will continue to consult and to work
closely with our allies to ensure that arms
control efforts serve our common needs.
NATO Allies are also working for the
mutual and balanced reduction of forces
in Europe to provide greater security for
all European peoples at lower levels of
armaments, lower tensions, and at lower
costs. The Allies have recently made a
new proposal to the Warsaw Pact, and we
call upon those nations to respond in the
positive spirit in which our offer was
made.
Our efforts to reduce weapons and
forces in both these negotiations are
guided by the need for equivalence and
balance in the military capabilities of the
East and West. That is the only enduring
basis for promoting security and peace.
The challenges we face as allies do not
end here. Economic changes within our
countries and throughout the world have
increased our dependence upon one an-
other and complicated our efforts to pro-
mote economic and social welfare for our
people.
Social changes generated partly by eco-
nomic and political progress will require
creative thought and effort by each of our
nations. Our Alliance derives additional
strength through our shared goals and ex-
periences.
Finally, we face the challenge of pro-
moting the human values and human
rights that are the final purpose and
meaning of our Alliance. The task is not
easy-the way to liberty has never been-
but our nations preeminently comprise the
region of the world where freedom finds
its most hospitable environment.
As we seek to build détente, therefore,
we must continue to seek full implemen-
tation by Warsaw Pact countries as well
as our own of the Helsinki accords on se-
curity and cooperation in Europe that was
signed 3 years ago.
1013
