June 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
further inquiries to determine those per-
sons' qualifications.
1-202. In conducting its inquiries the
Commission shall follow any procedures
or criteria established by the President in
his letter of notification or by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury acting on behalf of
the President.
1-203. The Commission shall submit a
report to the President and to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury within 60 days from
the date it is notified by the President that
he desires its assistance. The report shall
list the names of no more than five per-
sons whom the Commission considers well
qualified to serve in the position.
1-204. The Commission shall conduct
such additional inquiries and submit such
additional reports as may be requested by
the President.
1-205. The Commission shall perform
no function except when requested by the
President to assist him in filling a vacancy.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. The Commission is authorized
to request from any Executive agency
such information or assistance as the Com-
mission deems necessary to carry out its
functions under this Order. Each agency
shall, to the extent permitted by law,
furnish such information or assistance to
the Commission.
1-302. The Commission is authorized
to request from any State agency such in-
formation and assistance as the Commis-
sion deems necessary. It is authorized to
1-304. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall furnish to the Commission necessary
administrative support.
1-305. All necessary expenses incurred
in connection with the work of the Com-
mission, to the extent permitted by law,
shall be paid from funds available to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. No member of the Commission
shall, while serving on the Commission or
for a period of one year thereafter, be
eligible to be nominated to fill a position
as a judge on the Tax Court.
1-402. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Commission, shall be performed by the
Secretary of the Treasury in accordance
with the guidelines and procedures es-
tablished by the Administrator of General
Services.
1-403. The Commission shall terminate
on December 31, 1978, unless sooner
extended.
The White House,
June 5, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:19 a.m., June 6, 1978]
obtain such information and assistance to Joseph M. Montoya
the extent permitted by State law.
1-303. Members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation. While
engaged in the work of the Commission,
members may receive travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703).
Statement on the Death of the Former
Senator From New Mexico. June 5, 1978
As a United States Senator, Joseph
Montoya dedicated himself to legislation
that would promote progress and benefit
the people of his State and Nation. From
the time he was first elected to the State
1040
