Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 4
an entire generation could be estranged
from our democratic societies.
We must take steps to avoid exporting
our economic difficulties to other nations,
whether rich or poor. And we must use
the tools of shared freedom to increase
the choices and opportunities of our eco-
nomic system. We can share our experi-
ence in social development, in education,
health care, social services, and the orga-
nization and management of farms and
factories.
At the heart of all these efforts is con-
tinued cooperation along with our other
economic partners in such ways as the eco-
nomic summits, which were first proposed
by France. This cooperation should recog-
nize the individuality of each nation,
while acknowledging that our economic
well-being will rise or fall together.
The third task on the new agenda for
democracy is to provide for our mutual
security.
I come to France today recognizing that
our two nations share a basic commitment
to preserve our hard-won freedom. We are
able, with our allies, to keep our freedom
precisely because we are militarily strong.
Our central security system today and
our central problem is maintaining our
will to keep the military strength we need,
while seeking at the same time every op-
portunity to build a better peace. Military
power without détente may lead to con-
flict, but détente would be impossible
without the NATO alliance and popular
support for a strong defense.
Both France and America prove that
the peoples of a democracy can and will
support these joint goals of constant
strength and also a commitment to peace.
The commitment of the American Gov-
ernment and the American people to the
security of Europe is absolute. There
should be no doubt that we will main-
tain in Europe whatever forces are needed
to meet that commitment. We are also
grateful that France maintains and im-
proves its forces that are essential for
defense.
But we also see the need to move be-
yond confrontation, to resolve the differ-
ences between East and West, and to
progress toward arms control and dis-
armament.
We are determined to seek balanced
and mutual limits on both qualitative and
quantitative deployment of nuclear weap-
ons, and then substantial reductions,
leading to the eventual elimination of nu-
clear weapons as a potential destructive
force among the nations of the world.
We are determined to seek early agree-
ment on a comprehensive ban of the test-
ing of all nuclear explosives, both mili-
tary weapons and also the so-called
peaceful nuclear devices. And we are de-
termined to seek a substantial reduction
of the international commerce in conven-
tional weapons.
We'll work with other nations to
achieve the advantages which such
agreements can bring. While the ap-
proaches of France and the United
States to these issues may sometimes dif-
fer, our desire to build a more stable
peace is one and the same. And in all
these efforts, we will consult and coop-
erate closely with you and with our other
allies, recognizing the independence of
each nation but also our mutual interests
and our mutual commitments.
The fourth task on democracy's new
agenda is the effort of Europeans to shape
your future. For the goal that you've set
for yourselves, with your partners in the
European Community, is nothing less
than to transform-in an unprecedented
fashion in history-and to improve rela-
tions among states with ancient tradi-
tions, unique histories, and legitimate
pride in national achievement.
25
