June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
April 1975 and March 1978, respectively,
which have laid a foundation for in-
creased trade and closer relations. The ex-
tension of general waiver authority is nec-
essary to permit continuation of the U.S.-
Romanian Trade Agreement for another
three-year period. The recently-negoti-
ated Trade Agreement with Hungary, a
significant development in the favorable
evolution of our relations with that coun-
try, is before the Congress for approval.
Moreover, continuation of this authority
will provide a basis for future steps to ex-
pand and improve our bilateral relations
with other countries subject to subsection
402 (a) and (b) of the Act, should cir-
cumstances permit. I believe that all of
these considerations make it in the na-
tional interest to extend the general
waiver authority.
Extension of the waiver for Romania
will permit us to continue to promote the
objectives of section 402 of the Trade Act
of 1974. Emigration from Romania to the
United States has continued to increase
during the period in which the waiver has
been in effect, and 1977 saw a marked in-
crease in overall emigration from Roma-
nia, led by a large increase in emigration
to the Federal Republic of Germany. Em-
igration to Israel, however, has declined
somewhat. The Administration has con-
tinued to advise Romanian officials peri-
odically of our high interest in emigration
both to the United States and to Israel. At
my request, the Department of State con-
ducted a detailed review of Romanian
emigration trends and practices this win-
ter, and a report was sent to the Congress
on February 9. I also expressed our inter-
est in greater emigration to Romanian
President Ceausescu during his recent
visit. The questions of emigration to Israel
and the United States and of binational
marriages were also discussed in detail
during a meeting between Secretary of
State Vance and Romanian Foreign Min-
ister Stefan Andrei on April 13. This close
dialogue with Romanian officials has led
to the favorable resolution of many emi-
gration and humanitarian problems. It is
my intention to continue to bring to the
attention of the Romanian government
matters relating to emigration which do
not seem to be consistent with the assur-
ances which have been given in the past.
Failure to extend the waiver authority
would remove the major incentive to en-
courage Romania to be more forthcoming
on emigration. In view of continuing
progress in this respect, I therefore,
strongly recommend continuation of the
waiver for Romania.
On April 7, 1978, when I issued a
waiver of the application of subsections
(a) and (c) of section 402 with respect to
Hungary, I noted that the Hungarian
Government has stressed to us that it in-
tends to continue dealing with emigration
matters in a responsive and humanitarian
way. Since that time Hungary's actions
have remained consistent with this policy.
I have therefore determined that a con-
tinuation of this waiver will substantially
promote the objectives of section 402 of
the Trade Act.
Trade With Romania
Memorandum From the President.
June 2, 1978
Presidential Determination No. 78-13
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Renewal of the U.S.-Roma-
nian Agreement on Trade Relations-
Finding and Determination under Sub-
section 405 (b) (1) of the Trade Act of
1974
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
under the Trade Act of 1974 (Public
Law 93-618, January 3, 1975; 88 Stat.
1978) (hereinafter "the Act"), I find,
1032
