Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
And when I've asked for advice around
our Capital City, I've always heard back,
"Well, you need to go to more Washing-
ton cocktail parties." I've tried to accom-
modate that recommendation and do the
best I could. I can't go to all the Embassy
parties. I just don't have time. So, I de-
cided to send Hamilton Jordan. [Laugh-
ter]
Later on, I was told that the best way
to deal with Congress to get your pro-
grams passed was to go to the cocktail
parties, and Jody Powell went. And he
tried to sell all 4-year programs in one
night. It took him a week to get over it.
[Laughter] Later, we have thought about
converting some of the key Members of
Congress to get our energy bill passed.
My sister Ruth is planning on going to
see Russell Long very shortly, maybe get
an energy bill. [Laughter]
The only one that's really been com-
pletely successful so far has been Bert
Lance. He's come out of Washington a
hero. He's the only one in the Carter ad-
ministration that's paid off all his debts.
[Laughter] He's made more friends in the
last 3 or 4 months than anybody I know.
He's just embarked, or is embarking on a
new career in television. There's a lot of
openings at the top since Walter Cron-
kite became Acting Secretary of State.
[Laughter]
And I know that all of you agree with
me that tonight Joel and Wallace, Ken
Curtis, Bert Lance have done an out-
standing job in one of the greatest Demo-
cratic fundraisers in the history of our
country. And I want all of us to express
our thanks to them. We're proud of them.
How many of you heard the State of
the Union speech last night, anybody? It
was 45 minutes long, and I said all I
wanted to say last night. So, I'm going
to be very brief this evening, but there
are a few things that I want to say.
This is the first time I've been back to
Atlanta since Inauguration Day, a year
ago tonight. And as I mentioned last
evening, 2 years ago yesterday, we had
the first Democratic caucus in Iowa. But
long before that, many of you here in
Georgia, and in Alabama and Mississippi
and Florida and Tennessee and South
Carolina, North Carolina, Kentucky, had
confidence in me and gave me your sup-
port. And, of course, there's one region
of the country, even though I am Presi-
dent of the whole Nation, that will always
be close to my heart, and that's the South.
Tonight, with this banquet, I thought
about the fact that we didn't have to join
the Democratic Party when I was young.
We were born into it. It became
part of
our life, part of our consciousness.
We grew up on a farm during the de-
pression years. And we struggled from a
time of hopelessness and despair and pov-
erty, sometimes even hunger, with a sense
that the future could be greater.
We had a President, Franklin Roose-
velt, and we had memories and a history
of the past with the fathers of our coun-
try, Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson,
and others, who had always had faith in
common, ordinary, honest, hard-working
American people. They trusted the judg-
ment of those who are not powerful and
influential, who
who sometimes are not
wealthy or even well-educated, who do
have a deep sense of what our Nation has
been, is, and can be, a deep religious faith,
a belief that the family, if it's tight-knit
and filled with love, is the best source of
inspiration, education, and preparation
for an adult life. We learned what it
meant to struggle and to obtain a good
education.
And this region of the country has al-
ways been highly patriotic, maybe be-
cause our families, our ancestors remem-
ber the devastation of the War Between
156
