Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 20
and the Mainland be resolved peacefully,
and we don't know yet with what degree
of success the move toward normalization
can be expedited. We just don't know yet.
RELATIONS WITH THE CONGRESS
Q. You mentioned earlier that reform-
ing the civil service had been more than
you anticipated.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I said that the
problems in the bureaucracy had been
more than I anticipated.
Q. Has your education in dealing with
the Congress been similar?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I've had a good
relationship with the Congress. I think
when this term is concluded, for instance,
and an inventory is made of what achieve-
ments we've realized, there will be a rec-
ognition that my relationship with the
Congress has been very good. We've had
some very difficult issues that we've ad-
dressed, some highly controversial matters
and some hot debates, and some failures,
of course.
But, for instance, the natural gas de-
regulation question has been one of the
most controversial ever addressed by the
Congress. I think the first natural gas de-
regulation bill was vetoed by Harry
Truman, I think, in 1950 or so. For 30,
35 years, this has been a difficult matter
to resolve.
I'm not saying flatly that this one will
be resolved this year. My anticipation is
that it will. But I think that if you look
back a year ago on what were the most
controversial questions, it was whether or
not I would have the authority to reor-
ganize the Government, whether or not
we could form an Energy Department,
whether or not we could have success in
a comprehensive energy policy evolution
in our country, or whether or not we could
deal with the most crucial issue then,
which was unemployment.
Since then, because of the action of the
Congress in concert with me and my ad-
ministration, we've added a net increase
of 5.5 million jobs in this country, an un-
precedented achievement, and the unem-
ployment rate has dropped 2 percent.
Now the Congress and I, because of
changing economic circumstances, be-
cause of an unanticipated success in the
employment field, are much more deeply
concerned now with controlling inflation
than we were before. The inflation rate
this year has built up more rapidly.
But I have an excellent relationship
with the Democratic leadership and the
Republican leadership in the House and
Senate. We have meetings here over in
the White House, every 2 weeks at least,
with a complete group of Democratic
leaders in the House and Senate. This past
Tuesday morning, we had the Republi-
cans and Democrats together. And so, I
have been pleasantly surprised at the re-
lationship that I have had with the
Congress.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very
much. I'll answer one more question, and
then I'll go.
SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION
Q. As I understand it, you proposed
to reduce the number of soil conserva-
tionists in the Nation and cut funds for
certain programs. In my State of Iowa,
I understand it could be possibly 50. Are
you going ahead with those cuts?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. With
the Soil Conservation offices, is that what
you said?
Q. Conservationists.
THE PRESIDENT. Conservationists, oh.
I don't know. We are trying to evolve
now, approaching a final decision on basic
water policy. And as Governor of
943
