Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 21
to be used for peaceful purposes, but to
prevent any atomic fuel from our country
ever to go to a country overseas to make
an atomic explosion. We believe in non-
proliferation and now we've done some-
thing about it.
So, you can see that in a list of 10 or 15
things so far, we haven't found any dif-
ferences among us.
The Democratic Party is united, and
it's united on a basis of principles that
seem sometimes to be in conflict, but
which aren't. I believe in tough fiscal
management. I believe in balanced budg-
ets. I believe in government that's well-
organized. I believe in a day's work for a
day's pay. I believe that the best govern-
ment is the one closest to the people. I
don't think the Federal Government
ought to intrude in the private affairs of
American citizens.
I don't believe we ought to ever be
satisfied with achievements, but that we
ought to have the courage within our
country constantly to assess our own fail-
ings and shortcomings, our own errors and
mistakes, and correct them openly and
willingly and eagerly.
I believe that government ought to have
a heart. I believe we ought to be con-
stantly concerned about those who are not
as fortunate as we. I think we ought to
search back 200 years ago and look into
the hearts and minds of the founders of
our country and try to understand what
they had as a vision for the future and
even to improve upon it.
I recognize that our country does have
its fault, but I know along with you that
we share a deep conviction that in spite
of all our faults and all our mistakes and
all of our fumblings and sometimes divi-
sions, that you and I still live in the
greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. at
the Padua Academy.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Anker Jorgensen of Denmark
White House Statement.
February 21, 1978
President Carter met with Prime Min-
ister Anker Jørgensen of Denmark today
at the White House. The Prime Minister
was accompanied by Foreign Minister
K. B. Andersen and other high-ranking
Danish officials. Prime Minister Jørgen-
sen, who is also current President of the
European Council, is paying an official
visit to Washington at the President's in-
vitation. He and Mrs. Jørgensen were the
guests at a luncheon given by Vice Presi-
dent and Mrs. Mondale. Secretary Vance
will hold a luncheon for the Prime Min-
ister tomorrow. While in Washington, he
will also meet with Secretaries Brown,
Blumenthal, Schlesinger, and Marshall,
with the Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations, Robert Strauss, and
with Members of Congress. The Prime
Minister's talks with the President cov-
ered a broad range of economic and po-
litical topics in U.S. relations with the
European Community, and major inter-
national issues of mutual interest.
The two leaders reviewed economic
trends in their two countries, in the West
generally, and in the world. They agreed
that continued close cooperation among
the industrial democracies is necessary to
increase economic growth, resist protec-
tionism, and work toward resolving global
economic problems. The two leaders em-
phasized the importance of the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations in encourag-
ing freer trade to promote orderly
growth in both developed and develop-
ing nations.
Prime Minister Jørgensen gave the
President his assessment of developments
389
