Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 11
did so, even though the bill adopted a fi-
nancing plan different and more expen-
sive than we had proposed.
It would be a mistake for the Congress
to retreat from the 1977 legislation so
soon after its passage. Hasty action now
Congress to focus its attention on those
fundamental proposals, rather than a
short-term reduction in the payroll tax.
could result in ill-considered legislation Anti-Inflation Policy
which might again place the trust funds
in jeopardy.
It is often forgotten that those taxes
pay for important benefits for our people.
Our first priority must be the protection
of the social security system and the res-
toration of confidence of those who sup-
port it and those who benefit.
Much of the concern about the 1977
legislation appears to be the result of mis-
information. News articles have asserted
that the law would triple the payroll tax
burden on workers and employers. That is
simply not so. The correct measure of
burden is the percentage of earnings
which is devoted to the social security tax.
By that measure, the payroll tax burden
on the average worker, and the worker
earning the maximum covered wage, will
increase from 6.05 percent in 1978 to 7.15
percent in 1987. The high-income worker
earning $30,000 today will experience a
more substantial percentage increase
from 3.5 percent in 1978 to 5.9 percent
in 1987, because the payroll tax has be-
come more progressive. These increases
in tax burden are far smaller than those
so often mentioned. We believe that most
Americans would agree that this is a rea-
sonable price to pay to ensure that the
social security system is once again made
sound.
Moreover, the President's proposals to
reduce income taxes will more than com-
pensate most workers for the increases in
payroll taxes. The reform of the income
tax is part of a carefully coordinated
economic program, which will improve
the equity of the Federal tax system and
sustain economic growth. We urge the
Remarks to Members of the American Society
of Newspaper Editors Announcing the
Administration's Policy. April 11, 1978
President Patterson, future President
Hughes, distinguished editors
editors from
around the Nation, ladies and gentle-
men:
I realize that this is one of the most
important and prestigious conventions
held in our entire country. This has been
impressed upon me by several of the edi-
torials I've read from around the Nation's
newspapers. [Laughter] However, in the
local morning paper, the story was on
page D-13, next to the used automobile
ads, a place that I thought was reserved
for corrections and apologies. [Laughter]
We had a difficult time deciding what
I should discuss with you this afternoon.
One of our staff members finally sug-
gested that we choose a major problem
which we have not yet solved. [Laughter]
This took 2 or 3 days. And we finally
decided on one of the least difficult ones-
inflation, energy, and the value of the
dollar.
I am delighted to be with you to dis-
cuss this important subject.
During the last 15 months, we in the
United States have made good progress
in sustaining growth and in creating jobs.
Four-and-a-half million more people are
at work today than 15 months ago, an
unprecedented increase in job availability.
The unemployment rate has dropped
from about 8 percent to just a little more
than 6 percent. Average household in-
come after adjustment for both taxes and
inflation is 5 percent higher now than it
721
