June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
This is a very troubled part of the
world, and it would be a mistake for us
to lose the trust of people in our good
intentions and in the integrity of what we
say. But I believe everyone involved
understands that what I've outlined to
you very briefly is our constant, unchang-
ing public and private policy. We intend
to pursue it with tenacity; we will do the
best we can to bring about our hopes
our hopes
there; we will not get militarily involved
on the continent of Africa.
Let me say again how deeply grateful
I am to come to meet with you. You've
received me well again. It makes me feel
proud to be President, to come and see
such a large group who are interested in
our Government. And I ask you to give
me your support, your confidence, your
criticisms when you disagree with me, and
at all times, your prayers.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:16 p.m. at
the Tarrant County Convention Center. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mayor Hugh
Parmer of Fort Worth and Jack Tinsley,
executive editor of the Fort Worth Star-Tele-
gram and an organizer and master of cere-
monies for the event.
Ellington Air Force Base,
Texas
Remarks on Arrival. June 23, 1978
Thank you very much for coming out
to make me feel so much at home. Mayor
McConn, Senator Bentsen, Congressman
Bob Gammage, Congressman Bob Eck-
hardt, other members of the Texas con-
gressional delegation, NASA guests, and
Texas friends, thank you very much.
First of all, I want to express my deep
appreciation to all of you for coming out
this afternoon to make me feel welcome
again to one of the greatest States in the
country and a State which exemplifies
in the finest possible way all the charac-
teristics that make our Nation the great-
est nation on Earth.
I arrived at Carswell Air Force Base
this morning and had a meeting with
about 6,000 people in Fort Worth for
a short speech and a question-and-answer
period. This afternoon, as you may know,
I'll be making a speech to a group in
Houston, and I hope some of you will
come to hear me. Tomorrow I go to Beau-
mont and then on to Fort Hood.
I think all of us who leave Washing-
ton and who come to Texas have the same
reaction. It's big, it's open, it's progres-
sive, it's friendly, and the people are
patriotic and have always been good
partners of mine, and I thank you for
that.
Ellington Air Force Base is certainly
the embodiment of all these characteris-
tics. The people of the United States have
a sentimental attachment to Ellington.
From its early days as an air base during
World War I, long before aviation
played a very significant role in the de-
fense of our country, to its latest role as a
training site for the most advanced astro-
nauts on Earth, working to make the space
shuttle a success, Ellington has made a
significant contribution to our Nation's
security.
I know that you've been concerned
about the future of Ellington. The Gen-
eral Services Administration and the
Office of Management and Budget, my
own staff, and others have been carefully
studying this problem ever since the
Air Force decided that it no longer needed
to use Ellington on a full-time basis as an
air base. Bob Gammage has kept this
issue constantly before us all. [Laughter]
As a result of this study, I'm pleased
to be able to announce today that GSA,
the United States Government, will not
be releasing Ellington for public sale.
1164
