Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
In my acceptance speech at the Demo-
cratic National Convention, and in the
inaugural speech 13 months ago, I used
two words which have not been spoken
enough in Washington or throughout our
country in the last few years, and those
two words were "human rights."
I felt then, and I feel now, that not only
must we correct serious mistakes, con-
stantly analyze where we are, constantly
improve on the structure of our Govern-
ment, but that our Nation ought to stand
for something, stand for something that
doesn't change, stand for something that
was here when Delaware became the first
State to adopt the Constitution as a basis
for freedom and a basis for inspiration.
Our Nation has now rehoisted a banner
that gives us legitimate pride, which puts
on us a mandate for legitimate humility
to make sure that we reexamine what we
are, where we stand, the progress we are
making, so that we can set an example
for other countries.
This past week I greeted the Ambas-
sador from Indonesia. He sat in the Oval
Office, and we mentioned briefly human
rights, because his country has been em-
barrassed in recent years. And he said,
"Mr. President, I just want to let you
know that we are proud that in Indonesia
this past month we released from prison
10,000 people who had been incarcerated
because of politics."
I believe in basic human rights with
all my heart. And as long as I'm in the
White House and Joe Biden's in the Sen-
ate, we'll always stand for human rights
for you.
We've never had a national energy pol-
icy. How many of you think we ought to
have a national energy policy? [Applause]
Our welfare system is in many ways a
mess. How many of you think we need
welfare reform? [Applause]
Our Federal bureaucracy is confused,
it's overlapping, it's wasteful. And our
superb civil servants can't often do as good
a job as they hunger to do. How many of
you think we ought to reorganize the Fed-
eral Government and make it efficient?
[Applause]
When I came into office in January of
1977, a little more than a year ago, our
unemployment rate was almost 8 percent.
This past month it was 6.3 percent. It's
on the way down.
The unemployment rate in Delaware
has dropped 2 percent-here in your cap-
ital city, 22 percent in the last year. And
I believe that if we work together, we can
keep the unemployment rate going down.
How many of you believe that we ought
to? [Applause] In your capital city and
here it's gone down 22 percent. [Laugh-
ter]
Well, let me just mention one other
thing, and then I'd like to close. We are
searching to find the answers for some
very difficult questions. We're negotiating
every day with the Soviet Union to try
to limit nuclear weapons and then to re-
duce the arsenal of nuclear weapons with
an ultimate goal of our country on a very
well-balanced, verifiable basis, the elimi-
nation of nuclear weapons from the face
of the Earth. How many of you would
like to see that? [Applause]
My background is in nuclear physics,
nuclear engineering, and I've seen the
possibility in the past of new nations from
time to time--
[At this point, a woman in the audience began
to faint. After ascertaining that she was being
cared for, the President resumed speaking.]
I think a year ago, or 18 months ago,
everybody figured that the nuclear genie
was out of the bottle, that there was no
way to prevent new nations, as India had
done, from exploding atomic weapons.
But now this past week, the House and
the Senate, obviously with Joe Biden's
strong support, has passed a bill that will
help us very well to permit nuclear power
388
