Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
finished by April, that I would have a
comprehensive energy plan finished by
October last year. [Laughter]
So, I launched my effort by calling it
the moral equivalent of war. The other
night Rosalynn said that if the President
and the Congress in the Pacific war in the
1940's had been as effective as the Con-
gress and I have on the energy plan, that
the people in Plains would all be speaking
Japanese. [Laughter]
I have seen my wife and dedicated pro-
fessionals and volunteers work on improv-
ing the mental health status in Georgia
while I was Governor. And I knew that in
the choice of this Commission, who stand
behind me on the stage, that we had put
together a group with a wide range of
credentials, experience, dedication, knowl-
edge, and commitment that would be un-
excelled. They were each chosen very
carefully. They've worked harmoniously
together.
About one out of seven Americans need
mental treatment of some kind at any
particular moment. This affliction in all
its varied forms touches almost every
family in the United States. The effort to
bring treatment to those who lack it be-
cause of discrimination, because of inat-
tention on the part of public officials,
because of an inadequate allotment of
medical care from one community to an-
other, because of an absence of close co-
operation between the Federal, State,
and local governments, between govern-
ment and the private sector of our Na-
tion, between those who deal in physical
health and the inseparable questions of
mental health, have caused this unneces-
sary suffering.
Twenty-five years ago we spent about
$1.7 billion on mental health in this coun-
try. Now we spend ten times this much,
about $17 billion, about half of which is
public funds. I've looked through this re-
port, and Rosalynn has explained to me
the major thrust of it. It is a superb an-
alysis of the problems that we still have in
the adequate delivery of mental health
care to the people of our country.
There is not a heavy emphasis on in-
creased budget allotments nor initiation
of new programs, but there's an emphasis
on how we can coordinate delivery of ex-
isting programs better with some modest
increase in the budget which I intend to
support and recommend to the Congress
next year.
In this allotment of additional funds,
which, as I say, is very modest, we will
emphasize the prevention of mental ill-
ness, the care for those who chronically
suffer from mental illness, the training of
additional personnel who are qualified to
treat those who suffer from this illness,
the better distribution of their services
around the country and to communities
which are not presently served, and addi-
tional research to determine with a mini-
mum expenditure of American finances
how we can better deal with this severe
problem that our Nation still experiences.
This will not be a costly program, but
it will be a program that can save enor-
mous amounts of public funds, because to
care for a person who is suffering from
mental illness unnecessarily is an ex-
tremely expensive proposition, costing
tens of thousands of dollars, sometimes
each year, for a normal lifespan of 50 or
60 years, for a mentally afflicted person.
So, it's an excellent investment in the
future.
I'm very grateful for what my wife has
done, Tom Bryant, and the members of
the Commission. I've never seen a group
work with more dedication and produce
a better product. And I and Joe Califano,
Pat Harris, and the Members of the Con-
gress who are here-Senator Kennedy is
here representing the Senate, Paul Rogers
is here representing the House-we are
all dedicated to carrying out the recom-
792
