Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 20
the American people. How many of you
think we ought to have a $25 billion tax
reduction in 1978? [Applause]
We've got tax laws that ought to be
changed and made fair. They have too
many loopholes in them, and the working
families of our country have not had an
adequate voice in Washington or in the
Congress or the White House for a long
time. But now the Democratic Party,
working together on both ends of Penn-
sylvania Avenue, want to have a fair and
equitable tax system, along with a much
lower tax burden. We want to give some
tax breaks for middle-income families to
let them keep more of their money to put
their kids through college, to have a better
education system. How many of you agree
with that? [Applause]
I talked with Joe Biden in the Governor's
mansion in 1974, there was a sense of
despair and alienation, disappointment,
even embarrassment among American
people.
We were fighting an unpopular war in
Vietnam. We had been embarrassed by a
Republican administration with the Wa-
tergate scandals. The intelligence com-
munity of our Nation, on which we de-
pend for our security to a major degree,
had had revelations about it alleging as-
sassination and murder and illegalities.
And I believe that we have now cor-
rected all those deficiencies, and people
can once again be proud of our country,
proud of our Government, proud of our
Congress, proud of our administration.
How many of you agree with that?
Joe Biden, in spite of the fact that he [Applause]
has only been in the Senate for 6 years,
has been honored as few Senators are by
being put on the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee. This gives him a much broader
scope and responsibility than just rep-
resenting Delaware. But it can be a source
of great pride to you, because Joe Biden
has to listen to the confidential reports to
the Congress. He believes and I believe
that we can have a comprehensive peace
in the Middle East. How many of you
agree? [Applause]
He specializes in Europe, the home of
our closest historical allies, where most of
our ancestors came from. We've been try-
ing to strengthen NATO to revive the
spirit of people who live in Europe, and
for the first time since NATO was formed,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
every single member is now a democracy.
I think that's good progress. We're going
to make more progress. What do you think
about it? [Applause]
We have also a kind of a sense in this
country of what's good and what's right.
And I think it's fair to say that when I
began my campaign in early 1975, when
I won't go down the list of things, but I
would like to mention two or three: Joe
Biden serves on a special committee, the
Senate Intelligence Committee. It's a
committee that receives our Nation's ut-
most secrets, and it has had at its breast
these last 2 years the responsibility to cor-
rect the defects that existed within the
CIA and to be sure that in the future, we
had professional civil servants—and we
have who do a superb job—and they
have and they do who respect and pre-
serve the constitutional rights of Ameri-
can citizens to our own privacy, who don't
violate American law. And he has had a
great responsibility for making sure that
these defects in the CIA and intelligence
community never reappear.
We are now preparing under the lead-
ership of Joe Biden and just a few others
for the first time a charter for the intelli-
gence community. He believes, as I do,
in a strong national defense and that the
security of our Nation is the first responsi-
bility of a President and the Congress.
How many of you agree with Joe Biden
about that? [Applause]
387
