Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN PROMISES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bryan
Gifford. I'm from Concord, New Hamp-
shire, and I represent Concord High
School. After reading several evaluations
of your first year in office, one underlying
point that I seem to notice throughout all
of them was that you may have promised
a bit too much during your Presidential
campaign. You said, quote, on December
28, 1977: "I think my biggest mistake
has been inadvertently building my ex-
pectations too high." My question then,
sir, is looking back on your first year in
office and in light of this, what are you
looking forward to in this coming year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that
I still stand by all my campaign promises.
There are two factors that made me make
that statement. It was the night before I
left on my around-the-world trip. One
was that, as I've described earlier about
the national health program, that the
Congress can only deal with so many is-
sues simultaneously because, quite often,
one or two committees in the Congress
have to handle a series, a wide range of
issues, and the Congress has simply moved
slower than I had anticipated.
The energy question is one. We've never
had a national energy policy. And I pro-
posed an energy policy on April 20 last
year. The House of Representatives passed
my proposal, basically intact, before the
recess in August. The Senate later passed
a completely different version of an en-
ergy policy. And since the late fall, the
House and Senate conferees have been
trying to resolve their differences, so far
unsuccessfully.
We haven't given up hope there. This
is an issue that's been before the Congress
for more than 30 years. The first natural
gas deregulation bill was vetoed by Harry
Truman, I think, in 1950. So we are deal-
ing there with an issue that's almost the
most difficult domestic issue that the Con-
gress could possibly face. We're both a
producers of oil in the world; we are also
major oil producer-one of the greatest
the greatest consumer of oil in the world.
And those conflicts are slow to be resolved.
The same thing applies to many other
issues. We've made our proposals to the
Congress, and I don't think we've pro-
posed too much.
The other point I'd like to make is that
when I made those promises to the Ameri-
can voters, I never said that I would ac-
complish everything the first year. I've
only been in office 13 months, and I've
about 3 more years to go. And there has
been some patience exhibited by the
American electorate and also by the news
media, but when you get to the end of the
first 12 months and say that you haven't
done everything that you promised to do
in 4 years, that's not a fair way to meas-
ure what I and the Congress have been
able to do together. There's a very good
sense of partnership and mutual respon-
sibility now that exists between the White
House and the Capitol Hill Members of
Congress. And I think this has not been
the case in the past.
So I'll stand behind my campaign
promises. I think the American people
have to realize the difficulty of some of
these issues, be patient with me and the
Congress, recognize what we have accom-
plished, and I'll be much more careful in
the future about the rate of recommen-
dations to the Congress to accommodate
their very careful, very beneficial process
for passing major legislation.
Thank you.
STANSFIELD TURNER
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I'm
David Carle from Contoocook Valley Re-
gional High School in Peterborough. The
CIA has been run by a civilian all its his-
371
