Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Elementary and Secondary
Education
Message to the Congress. February 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting today my proposals to
strengthen our major elementary and sec-
ondary education programs. These are
one part of a concerted effort to reestab-
lish education in the forefront of our do-
mestic priorities. The other parts are
major increases in the Federal education
budget, establishment of a Cabinet-level
Department of Education, and our pro-
posal for a significant expansion of eligi-
bility for college student assistance.
The proposals which I am now submit-
ting for elementary and secondary educa-
tion seek to enhance the primary role of
the states and local communities in edu-
cating our Nation's children and reaffirm
the need for a strong and supportive Fed-
eral commitment to education. They will:
-strengthen our commitment to basic
skills education in Title I of the
Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion Act-the compensatory educa-
tion program; and add a new pro-
vision to concentrate a major share
of increased Title I funding on
those school systems most in need;
-create a new program to encourage
state implementation of their own
compensatory education programs;
-provide additional flexibility in the
Emergency School Aid Act, designed
to assist in desegregation, so that
funds can be retargeted from areas
where they are no longer needed to
areas of greater need;
-create a new research and demon-
stration effort in the area of basic
skills, and enhance our efforts to
link schools with employers and
other community resources;
-implement a phased, gradual but
substantial reform of the Impact Aid
Program;
-strengthen the bilingual education
program with emphasis on teaching
English as a primary and overriding
goal but permitting flexibility in use
of first language and culturally sen-
sitive approaches to help achieve
this goal;
-strengthen participation of private
schools in existing grant programs.
We can be justly proud of the accom-
plishments of our system of education. Ed-
ucation has promoted understanding
among a diverse people; it has been the
springboard to advancement for genera-
tions of our citizens; and it has produced
the skills and knowledge required for this
country to have the most advanced econ-
omy in the world.
Yet our schools face many important
challenges. We must do a better job of
teaching the basic skills of reading, writ-
ing and mathematics. We must remain
committed to full and equal educational
opportunity for all children. We must help
students achieve educational excellence.
We must responsibly reduce the financial
barriers that limit access to higher educa-
tion. And we must give education a more
prominent and visible role in the Federal
government.
We will face these challenges and over-
come them. No asset is of greater value to
our Nation and no commitment is so char-
acteristic of the American people as our
strong commitment to educate all our
children.
EDUCATION BUDGET
The Administration's budget proposals
for the coming year show the priority we
give to education. Our FY 1979 budget
contains $12.9 billion in appropriations
for the Education Division of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare.
424
