Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
duct artificially inflated reserves for bad
debts in order to protect the banking sys-
tem from catastrophic losses that were
prevalent prior to the extensive banking
legislation of the 1930's. Credit unions
were exempted from taxation in the days
when these institutions were small entities
with close bonds among the members and
few powers to provide extensive financial
services. I am recommending changes that
will recognize the contemporary practices
of financial institutions and will bring the
tax treatment of commercial banks, sav-
ings and loan associations and credit un-
ions more in line with the taxation of
other businesses. These reforms will raise
$300 million per year in revenue.
(1) Commercial Banks. Commercial
banks may now claim bad debt deductions
that greatly exceed their actual losses. Un-
der legislation enacted in 1969, this special
bad debt deduction is scheduled for elimi-
nation after 1987. I propose that the effec-
tive date for repeal be accelerated so that
beginning in 1979 banks, like other busi-
nesses, will base their bad debt reserves on
their own experience in the current and 5
preceding years.
(2) Mutual Savings Banks and Sav-
ings and Loan Associations. Mutual sav-
ings banks and savings and loan associa-
tions are also permitted a special bad debt
deduction that bears no relationship to
actual experience. These thrift institu-
tions are generally entitled to deduct 40
percent of their net income (this percent-
age is scheduled to apply in 1979) as a
bad debt reserve as long as a significant
portion of their deposits is invested in real
estate loans. My tax program will reduce
the percentage to 30 percent over a 5-year
period.
(3) Credit Unions. Credit unions are
tax-exempt. Yet, their powers and func-
tions are defined so broadly that the term
"credit union" can include financial in-
stitutions that are functionally identical
to a savings and loan association. The tax
exemption provides them with an unfair
financial advantage over their competi-
tors. I propose that the percentage of ex-
empt income be phased out over a 4-year
period, and that credit unions be taxed
in the same manner as mutual savings
banks and savings and loan associations
after 1982.
Domestic International Sales Corporation
(DISC)
Business incentives form an integral
part of my tax program. I am recom-
mending measures that will encourage
American businesses to invest in produc-
tive facilities and to create jobs. However,
adoption of those incentives must be ac-
companied by the elimination of tax pref-
erences that have proved to be wasteful.
The so-called "DISC" provision is a
prime example.
In 1971, Congress enacted a special tax
program for exports. This program per-
mitted tax benefits for exports channeled
through a company's specially created
subsidiary, usually a paper organization,
known as a domestic international sales
corporation (DISC). Artificial pricing
rules on transactions between the parent
company and its DISC permit a favor-
able allocation of export profits to the
DISC, and the taxation of one-half of eli-
gible DISC income is deferred as long as
these profits are invested in export related
assets.
DISC has proved to be a very ineffi-
cient and wasteful export subsidy in the
current international monetary system. A
recent Treasury study indicates that
DISC may have contributed only $1 to
$3 billion to U.S. exports in 1974 an in-
crease of less than 3 percent in total ex-
ports at a tax revenue cost of $1.2 bil-
lion. In the long run, even these increased
exports are probably offset by rising im-
ports that result from the operation of the
flexible exchange rate system. DISC does
172
