Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
case be referred to the FBI for further
investigation;
1-708. Furnish the Director of Central
Intelligence, the PRC and the SCC, in
accordance with applicable law and At-
torney General procedures, the informa-
tion required for the performance of their
respective duties;
1-709. Report to the Intelligence Over-
sight Board, and keep the Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence appropriately informed,
concerning any intelligence activities of
their organizations which raise questions
of legality or propriety;
1-710. Protect intelligence and intelli-
gence sources and methods consistent with
guidance from the Director of Central
Intelligence and the NSC;
1-711. Disseminate intelligence to co-
operating foreign governments under ar-
rangements established or agreed to by
the Director of Central Intelligence;
1-712. Execute programs to protect
against overclassification of foreign intel-
ligence;
1-713. Instruct their employees to co-
operate fully with the Intelligence Over-
sight Board; and
1-714. Ensure that the Inspectors Gen-
eral and General Counsel of their agen-
cies have access to any information neces-
sary to perform their duties assigned by
this Order.
1-8. The Central Intelligence Agency.
All duties and responsibilities of the CIA
shall be related to the intelligence func-
tions set out below. As authorized by the
National Security Act of 1947, as
amended, the CIA Act of 1949, as
amended, and other laws, regulations and
directives, the CIA, under the direction
of the NSC, shall:
1-801. Collect foreign intelligence, in-
cluding information not otherwise ob-
tainable, and develop, conduct, or provide
support for technical and other programs
which collect national foreign intelli-
gence. The collection of information with-
in the United States shall be coordinated
with the FBI as required by procedures
agreed upon by the Director of Central
Intelligence and the Attorney General;
1-802. Produce and disseminate foreign
intelligence relating to the national secu-
rity, including foreign political, economic,
scientific, technical, military, geographic
and sociological intelligence to meet the
needs of the President, the NSC, and
other elements of the United States Gov-
ernment;
1-803. Collect, produce and dissemi-
nate intelligence on foreign aspects of
narcotics production and trafficking;
1-804. Conduct counterintelligence ac-
tivities outside the United States and co-
ordinate counterintelligence activities
conducted outside the United States by
other agencies within the Intelligence
Community;
1-805. Without assuming or perform-
ing any internal security functions,
conduct counterintelligence activities
within the United States, but only in
coordination with the FBI and subject to
the approval of the Attorney General;
1-806. Produce and disseminate coun-
terintelligence studies and reports;
1-807. Coordinate the collection out-
side the United States of intelligence in-
formation not otherwise obtainable;
1-808. Conduct special activities ap-
proved by the President and carry out
such activities consistent with applicable
law;
1-809. Conduct services of common
concern for the Intelligence Community
as directed by the NSC;
1-810. Carry out or contract for re-
search, development and procurement of
technical systems and devices relating to
authorized functions;
1-811. Protect the security of its in-
stallations, activities, information and
201
