Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 2
From 1961 to 1964, Ilchman was a
faculty member at Berkshire Community
College in Pittsfield, Mass. From 1966 to
1968 and in 1969-70, she was program
director at the Center for South and
Southeast Asia Studies at the University
of California at Berkeley and a lecturer
and political scientist at Berkeley. In
1968-69 she was director of Berkeley's
Professional Studies Program in India.
From 1971 to 1973, Ilchman was a
lecturer in the division of policy planning
and administration of the School of Edu-
cation at Berkeley. Since 1973 she has
been dean of the college and professor of
economics and education at Wellesley
College.
Federal Civil Service Reform
Remarks Announcing the Administration's
Proposals to the Congress. March 2, 1978
President Aukofer and distinguished
guests and friends:
This is the third time I've visited here,
and I was thinking on the way over about
the first two occasions. The last time I was
here I was Governor of Georgia, and I
came up to make a preliminary announce-
ment of my candidacy for President. I
went back to Atlanta that night and made
the actual announcement. I think the
headline was, "National Press Club In-
vites Unknown Governor To Speak."
[Laughter]
The first time I came I was also Gov-
ernor of Georgia, and actually the news
story was that I was trying to get an ap-
pointment with John Ehrlichman's assist-
ant. And I might report I was unsuccess-
ful in doing so. [Laughter]
Today, in order to leave as much time
for questions as possible, I'd like to make
a brief but a very important statement
about one of the most important aspects
of government. I came to Washington
with a promise and the obligation to re-
build the faith of the American people in
our government. We want a government
that can be trusted, not feared; that will
be efficient, not mired in its own redtape;
a government that will respond to the
needs of the American people, and not be
preoccupied with needs of its own.
Taxpayers who work hard for their
money want to see it spent wisely. We all
want a government that's worthy of con-
fidence and respect. That is what reorga-
nization is all about.
We have no illusions that this task will
be easy. Our Government and its bureauc-
racy have evolved over many generations,
and the work of reform cannot be com-
pleted in a single year or a single admin-
istration of a President.
But we have begun. We have already
adopted zero-based budgeting in all the
agencies of Government. We've cut the
burden of paperwork on the public and
reduced excessive Government regulation,
replacing it with free market competition.
At OSHA and in other Federal agencies,
we are discarding obsolete regulations and
rewriting rules in plain and understand-
able English. We've cut significantly the
number of employees in the Executive
Office of the President and abolished
hundreds of unneeded advisory commit-
tees.
But all that is not enough. The single
most important step that we can take is
a thoroughgoing reform of the civil serv-
ice system. Civil service reform will be the
centerpiece of Government reorganization
during my term of office.
I've seen at first hand the frustration
among those who work within the bu-
reaucracy. No one is more concerned at
the inability of Government to deliver on
its promises than the worker who is trying
to do a good job.
435
