Jan. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
orities and in our international preoccu-
pations. Paradoxically, the very adher-
ence to similar political systems has at
times exaggerated our misunderstandings
and blurred our affinities.
The world situation as it appears has
materially changed. Many new countries
have attained independent nationhood.
Détente, coexistence, and even coopera-
tion between countries with different
political and social systems have come to
be recognized as having an inexorable
logic for our interdependent planet.
Ideologies are in the process of being
domesticated, and pluralism amongst na-
tions is seen as a factor of stability, rather
than a threat to international peace. The
prospect of nuclear war has given a new
meaning to the search for peace on Earth.
Nonalignment is much less misunder-
stood. If there is a bipolarity today, it is
between forces seeking stability and coop-
eration and those which seek to obstruct
orderly and progressive solutions to world
problems.
The growing chasm between the devel-
oping and developed world may in the
future lead to increasing, dangerous ten-
sions. The world of the rich and the
poor
face a common doom if we cannot act
together to protect the earth, the air, and
water from plunder and pollution.
What we have admired in the short
period of your Presidency is your sensitiv-
ity not just to the problems of your own
country but to the dark shadows on peace
and international stability. You have
made the international community aware
of the rights of individuals, be they at
home or in other distant lands, and the
responsibilities we have to uphold of the
common man's inherent demand for
liberty, equality, and justice.
Mr. President, the world today com-
mands the resources, the technology, and
also, I believe, the wisdom to fashion a
stabler and just international order. The
time has come for the United States and
India, along with like-minded countries,
to work together so that overriding, nar-
row national interests may be persuaded
to see the wisdom of making necessary ad-
justments and sacrifices to help establish
a new international economic order. The
dangerous imbalances which exist must
be corrected, the specter of poverty re-
moved, and the creeping despondency in
cooperative solutions banished.
Mr. President, we recognize that the
role we in India can play in the resolution
of international problems can only come
from dynamic economic growth and the
establishment of an equitable society in
our own land. Our people have demon-
strated the capacity to learn and to inno-
vate, but to fulfill their modest expecta-
tions is, in itself, a gigantic task. Our
achievements, however, give us courage
and confidence.
We have laid the foundations for our
progress on a wide front covering prin-
cipally agriculture, industry, and more
important, the indigenization of scientific
and technological know-how. Our econ-
omy has been relieved of the endemic
anxieties arising from the paucity of food
production and difficulties in balance of
payments. We are in the process of re-
viewing our priorities so that a greater
share of the benefits of planned socio-eco-
nomic development reach the economi-
cally weaker sections of society. We have
recognized the dangers from uncontrolled
urbanization and are determined to make
our villages economically resilient.
Social and economic transformation
through democratic methods may at times
appear slow. Certainly in a democratic
setup, failure attracts more attention,
both at home and abroad, than progress
actually made towards social and eco-
nomic goals. We seek neither to minimize
12
