Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
Senator Sparkman just came in. I
wanted to recognize him. Senator, would
you stand up? Virginia—thank you very
much-and Congresswoman Virginia
Smith. We are very eager and pleased to
have the Members of Congress partici-
pate thoroughly, because there could not
possibly be a more representative group.
And their voice can be heard almost im-
mediately over the country collectively,
and they can also give us what these chil-
dren have just given us, a very good feed-
back from the children around the
Nation. We're not just teachers but we
are also students.
Both these letters, I notice, express the
children's hope for peace, which is obvi-
ously the prime hope of all of us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
National Advisory Committee
on Juvenile Justice and
Delinquency Prevention.
Appointment of Seven Members.
June 28, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of seven persons as members
of the National Advisory Committee on
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Pre-
vention. They are:
C. JOSEPH ANDERSON, a Terre Haute, Ind.,
attorney and former judge of the Vigo
County (Ind.) circuit court. He is a former
high school teacher, deputy prosecutor, and
State legislator;
KENNETH MCCLINTOCK-HERNANDEZ, of San
Juan, P.R., a law student at Tulane Law
School, who has been active in' civic and
political activities relating to youth in
Puerto Rico;
RON LEFLORE, a centerfielder for the Detroit
Tigers and author of the autobiography
"Breakout";
D. Laverne PIERCE, of Salem, Oreg., a con-
sultant to the Marion-Polk-Yamhill Coun-
cil on Alcoholism, where she is designer of
a community alcohol education plan. She is
former executive director of a free medical
clinic and is the chairperson of the Oregon
Juvenile Justice Advisory Committee;
KENNETH F. SCHOEN, commissioner of the
Minnesota State Department of Corrections
and a former parole agent and psychiatric
social worker;
DAVID TULL, of the Bronx, New York City,
a student at State University College at Buf-
falo, a former youth gang leader, and presi-
dent of the Third World, a coalition of
gangs working to improve living conditions;
ALICE UDALL, a juvenile court referee in Pima
County, Ariz., and member of the Arizona
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preven-
tion Advisory Committee.
National Security Information
Statement on Issuing Executive Order 12065.
June 29, 1978
I am pleased to sign the Executive order
revamping the Government's security
classification system.
The public is entitled to know as much
as possible about the Government's ac-
tivities. Classification should be used only
to protect legitimate national security se-
crets and never to cover up mistakes or
improper activities.
While some material must be classified,
the Government classifies too much infor-
mation, classifies it too highly and for too
long. These practices violate the public's
right to know, impose unnecessary costs,
and weaken protection for truly sensitive
information by undermining respect for
all classification.
The new order will increase openness
in Government by limiting classification
and accelerating declassification. At the
same time, it will improve protection for
information that needs to be kept secret.
1193
