Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
uals, make an indispensable contribution
to their cities.
Urban Volunteer Corps
I propose a $40 million program in
ACTION to increase the effectiveness of
voluntary activities at the local level. With
the agreement of local government, the
program will create a corps of volunteers
at the local level and match their skills
with the needs of local governments and
community and neighborhood organiza-
tions.
It also will provide small grants aver-
aging $5,000 for voluntary improvement
and beautification projects.
ACTION would select, with the con-
currence of local government, a lead
agency in each city to administer the
Urban Volunteer Corps.
Self-Help Development Program
Neighborhood associations are playing
a key role in housing and neighborhood
revitalization. We must strengthen that
role.
I will request $15 million in FY 1979
for a self-help development program to be
administered by the Office for Neighbor-
hoods in HUD.
This new program will provide funds
for specific housing and revitalization
projects in poor and low-income areas.
Each project would involve the participa-
tion of local residents, the private sector
and local government and would require
the concurrence of the mayor.
Crime Prevention
Street crime is a serious problem in
America's cities and communities. Over
the last few years a number of promising
initiatives have been undertaken by com-
munity groups and local law enforcement
agencies to combat street crime. Escort
services for the elderly, centers to help the
victims of crime, and neighborhood
watchers are examples of promising de-
velopments.
I propose a program which will add $10
million in new resources to existing ef-
forts in the Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration for a program operated
jointly by ACTION and LEAA. Under
this program, mayors and local neighbor-
hood
groups will develop community
crime prevention programs based on suc-
cessful pilot models. My reorganization
proposals for LEAA and the legislation I
will submit to extend the Law Enforce-
ment Assistance Act will strengthen our ef-
forts at crime prevention.
Community Development Credit Unions
Some urban communities are not served
by any financial institutions. Community
Development Credit Unions address this
problem by investing their assets in the
communities in which they are estab-
lished. This type of credit union was first
established under the poverty programs
in the 1960's. About 225 exist today, and
many are the only financial institutions in
their communities.
I am proposing a $12 million program
to provide $200,000 seed capital for new
Community Development Credit Unions,
to provide them with an operating sub-
sidy for staff, training and technical
assistance.
The job of revitalizing the urban com-
munities of our country will not be done
overnight. Problems which have accumu-
lated gradually over generations cannot
be solved in a year or even in the term of
a President.
But I believe that a New Partnership-
bringing together in a common effort all
who have a stake in the future of our
communities can bring us closer to our
long-term goals. We can make America's
cities more attractive places in which to
592
