Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 23
by the President by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate and who shall
be compensated at the rate now or here-
after provided for level III of the Execu-
tive Schedule. The Deputy Director shall
perform such functions as the Director
may from time to time prescribe and shall
act as Director during the absence or dis-
ability of the Director or in the event of
a vacancy in the Office of the Director.
(b) There shall be within the Office
not more than five Associate Directors,
who shall be appointed by the Director in
the excepted service, shall have such titles
as the Director shall from time to time
determine, and shall receive compensa-
tion at the rate now or hereafter provided
for level IV of the Executive Schedule.
SECTION 104. Functions of the Director.
The functions of the Director shall in-
clude, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Aiding the President, as the Pres-
ident may request, in preparing such rules
as the President prescribes, for the ad-
ministration of civilian employment now
within the jurisdiction of the United
States Civil Service Commission;
(b) Advising the President, as the
President may request, on any matters
pertaining to civilian employment now
within the jurisdiction of the United
States Civil Service Commission;
(c) Executing, administering and en-
forcing the Civil Service rules and regula-
tions of the President and the Office and
the statutes governing the same, and
other activities of the Office including
retirement and classification activities ex-
cept to the extent such functions remain
vested in the Merit Systems Protection
Board pursuant to Section 202 of this
Plan, or are transferred to the Special
Counsel pursuant to Section 204 of this
Plan;
(d) Conducting or otherwise providing
for studies and research for the purpose of
assuring improvements in personnel man-
agement, and recommending to the Pres-
ident actions to promote an efficient Civil
Service and a systematic application of
the merit system principles, including
measures relating to the selection, promo-
tion, transfer, performance, pay, condi-
tions of service, tenure, and separations
of employees; and
(e) Performing the training responsi-
bilities now performed by the United
States Civil Service Commission as set
forth in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 41.
SECTION 105. Authority to Delegate
Functions. The Director may delegate,
from time to time, to the head of any
agency employing persons in the competi-
tive service, the performance of all or any
part of those functions transferred under
this Plan to the Director which relate to
employees, or applicants for employment,
of such agency.
PART II. MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION
BOARD
SECTION 201. Merit Systems Protection
Board.
(a) The United States Civil Service
Commission is hereby redesignated the
Merit Systems Protection Board. The
Commissioners of the United States Civil
Service Commission are hereby redesig-
nated as members of the Merit Systems
Protection Board (the "Board").
(b) The Chairman of the Board shall
be its chief executive and administrative
officer. The position of Executive Direc-
tor, established by 5 U.S.C. 1103 (d), is
hereby abolished.
SECTION 202. Functions of the Merit
Systems Protection Board and Related
Matters.
(a) There shall remain with the Board
the hearing, adjudication, and appeals
functions of the United States Civil Serv-
ice Commission specified in 5 U.S.C. 1104
(b) (4) (except hearings, adjudications
and appeals with respect to examination
955
