June 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Amendments to the Medicare
Renal Disease Program
Statement on Signing H.R. 8423 Into Law.
June 13, 1978
For the 40,000 Americans suffering
from the severe disorder known as end-
stage renal disease, kidney dialysis and
transplantation are essential and life-sav-
ing services. But until now, Federal poli-
cies have encouraged these patients to
rely upon institutionally based dialysis,
which is more expensive than other ap-
proaches, such as transplantation and
home-based dialysis, and which may be
less medically desirable. The important
legislation I am signing today, H.R. 8423,
changes Federal reimbursement policies
to enable patients who are suitable can-
didates for transplantation or home-based
dialysis to receive these treatments.
This legislation complements other ini-
tiatives designed to control soaring health
care costs while maintaining the quality
of care, such as the hospital cost contain-
ment bill now pending before several
committees of the Congress. I will con-
tinue to work with the Congress to assure
more efficient health care for the Ameri-
can people.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8423 is Public Law
95-292, approved June 13.
National Advisory Council on
Women's Education Programs
Nomination of Seven Members.
June 13, 1978
The President today announced seven
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Advisory Coun-
cil on Women's Education Programs.
They are:
ELIZA M. CARNEY, of Tempe, Ariz., academic
adviser to the College of Nursing at Arizona
State University;
GLADYS GUNN, of Dayton, Ohio, director of
the Central State University Training In-
stitute and former assistant superintendent
of educational services for the Ohio Youth
Commission;
ELLEN S. HOFFMAN, of Washington, D.C., di-
rector of government affairs for the Chil-
dren's Defense Fund and former staff direc-
tor of the Senate Subcommittee on Children
and Youth;
KATHLEEN E. HUMPHREY, of Boise, Idaho, a
student in the B.S. program in computer
science at Duke University;
PAUL PARKS, secretary of education for the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
J. RICHARD ROSSIE, a Memphis, Tenn., attor-
ney active in organizations dealing with the
rights and educational opportunities for
handicapped children;
BERNICE SANDLER, an executive associate with
the Association of American Colleges, where
she is director of the Project on the Status
and Education of Women.
The purpose of the Council is to advise
and make recommendations to the Com-
missioner of Education and the Assistant
Secretary for Education on policy, pro-
grams, and the allocation of funds for the
improvement of women's education. The
Council consists of 20 members, 17 from
the private sector and 3 from the Govern-
ment.
Visit of Prime Minister
Desai of India
Toasts at the Working Dinner. June 13, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. If I could have your at-
tention a minute, I'd like to say just a
few words; first of all, to welcome all of
you who have come to the White House
this evening for one of the most delightful
and fruitful evenings of my administra-
tion.
I've learned to know and to respect and,
if he'll excuse the expression, even to love
1086
