Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 27
nated with members of the White House
staff, with the participation of OMB's
Office of Federal Procurement Policy.
For further information contact Robert
Lissit (395-3122). For information about
the OMB circular contact Les Fettig
(395-3436).
President's Environmental
Youth Awards
Remarks on Presenting the Awards.
April 27, 1978
The President. I'd like to say just a word
before we begin the awards ceremony.
Last year I initiated a program to rec-
ognize outstanding young people through-
out our country who are moving on their
own, particularly at the local community
level, to improve the environmental qual-
ity of our Nation. The whole thrust of this
effort is to encourage young people to
participate, to analyze how they can con-
tribute to the quality of life around their
own homes in a practical way, not just a
theoretical way, and to let the judgment
of how successful they are be determined
by those who live in the community itself.
We've got just a small group, about 15
here this morning, to receive awards that
will be given by the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. They represent about
70,000 young people who participated
within the last 12 months in this very
notable and worthwhile effort. And I'd
like to call on Doug Costle, now, and
Barbara Blum to read the citations, and
I will participate in the award of the
honors.
I've studied what they have done in
the different communities represented
here, and I think when you see what
they've done, you'll understand that it's
been a practical matter, in solid waste dis-
posal sites, the quality of water in a local
stream, the enhancement of the beauty of
a major community. These kinds of things
are very practical, down to earth, but
extremely important.
Barbara, Doug?
MR. COSTLE. Mr. President, ladies and
gentlemen, the first group of young people
here today are from the Marie Reed Com-
munity Learning Center. Now, they've
already undertaken some beautification
projects, but one of the interesting things
this group of 11-year-olds is doing is plant-
ing a garden this spring to grow vegetables
that in fact will be used in the school
lunchroom. And they've been particularly
active, and we'd like first to ask the Presi-
dent if he wouldn't present the award to
them.
Ms. BLUM. Mr. President, I'd like to
present Tyrone Arrington.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. This
group, by the way, is from Washington,
D.C., right?
MR. COSTLE. That's right.
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations.
Ms. BLUM. And this is Allen King.
THE PRESIDENT. Allen, which one of
those vegetables are you looking forward
to having? Have you got a favorite vege-
table?
MR. KING. NO. [Laughter]
THE
The President. This group has been
involved, so far, in beautification, right?
And you're also going to do the vegetable
production. Very good.
Ms. BLUM. Mr. President, Scotty
Vaughan.
THE PRESIDENT. Scotty Vaughan, con-
gratulations to you.
MR. COSTLE. Mr. President, this next
young man is from Breese, Illinois, and
he is really a rather remarkable young
fellow. He started a very careful effort to
do stream water quality monitoring. He
went out and bought his own equipment,
he set up his own lab, he picked eight
sites. He's done over 2,000 samples to test
787
