Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 27
kind of creative alliance that can produce
long-term solutions. This is a tough, no-
nonsense program, based on efficiency, ef-
fectiveness, and cooperation.
The new partnership is guided by these
principles: simplifying and improving ex-
isting programs and policy; combining the
resources of Federal, State, and local
gov-
ernment and using them as a lever to in-
volve the much greater strength of our
private economy to conserve and
strengthen our cities and communities;
being flexible enough to give help where
it's most needed and to respond to chang-
ing circumstances and the particular
needs of each individual and different
community; increasing access to oppor-
tunity for those who are disadvantaged in
a special way by economic circumstances
or by a history of discrimination; and,
above all, drawing on the sense of com-
munity and the volunteer effort that I
believe is still alive in America and on
the loyalty that Americans feel for their
own homes and their own neighborhoods.
The Federal contribution to the new
partnership is a long-term commitment,
involving three major areas of activity:
first, the very substantial increases we've
made and are making in programs that
directly benefit urban communities; sec-
ond, the reorientation of Federal activi-
ties to make certain that they support our
urban goals; and third, new initiatives to
help urban communities fiscally and eco-
nomically and to help their people meet
human and social needs.
This administration has been commit-
ted to the future of urban America ever
since the first day that I took office. That's
why we did not wait until the formal an-
nouncement of a national urban policy to
strengthen existing programs and to ini-
tiate new ones that are crucial to that
policy. The Congress, represented well
here today, has cooperated enthusias-
tically.
Total assistance-in just 2 years-to
State and local governments has already
been increased by 25 percent, from $68
billion to $85 billion. We've had major
improvements in such urban-related pro-
grams as the Community Development
Block Grant program and the new Urban
Development Action Grant program and
urban education. I proposed a doubling
in our expenditures for employment and
training to over $12 billion in 1979, and
we have already increased the number of
public service jobs by 150 percent. We
added 4.1 million new jobs last year.
In many of these programs, we are en-
larging the share that's provided to cities
and to urban areas. And I've asked for the
abolition of the present disastrous welfare
system and its replacement with a fair and
workable Better Jobs and Income pro-
gram that will provide immediate fiscal
relief to State and local governments.
But increases in spending cannot be a
substitute for effectiveness overall, nor are
they the sole measure of the depth or ex-
tent of our commitment.
For those who live in our urban areas,
the gravest flaw in past Federal policy was
not that we failed to spend money; it was
that too many of the programs were in-
effective, and too many that did work had
their benefits canceled by other conflicting
Federal and State activities.
In developing this national urban pol-
icy, we took a long, hard look at the work
of every single major department in the
Federal Government. In the process,
agencies ranging from the Defense De-
partment to the General Services Admin-
istration have been made more sensitive to
urban concerns. This is the beginning of a
long-term change in the attitude of the
entire Government bureaucracy toward
urban communities.
579
