Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 6
WILLIAM L. PRESSLY, administrator of the At-
lanta Historical Society and founding presi-
Ident of the Westminster Schools in Atlanta
(also designated Chairman of the Commis-
sion);
ARTHUR H. PURCELL, director of Technical
Information Project and adjunct associate
professor of engineering at George Washing-
ton University;
MURRY SIDLIN, music director and conductor
of the New Haven Symphony Orchestra;
CONSTANCE I. SLAUGHTER, an attorney in For-
est, Miss., and instructor in the prelaw de-
partment at Tougaloo College;
JOHN M. STALNAKER, president emeritus and
honorary director of the National Merit
Scholarship Corporation;
MANUEL VASQUEZ, an attorney in Coral
Gables, Fla., and adjunct professor of law at
the University of Florida's Cuban-American
Law Institute:
MICHAEL A. WEISS, a 1975 Presidential
Scholar and a senior at Harvard University,
majoring in biophysics;
YVONNE J. WYNDE, vice president and aca-
demic dean of Standing Rock Community
College in Fort Yates, S.D.
National Commission for
Manpower Policy
Appointment of Four Members. April 6, 1978
The President today announced the
appointment of four persons as members
of the National Commission for Man-
power Policy. They are:
United States Marine Corps
Nomination of Colonel Margaret A. Brewer
for the Rank of Brigadier General.
April 6, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Col. Margaret A. Brewer,
U.S. Marine Corps, for appointment to
the grade of brigadier general. If con-
firmed by the Senate, she will be the first
woman general in the history of the Ma-
rine Corps and will hold the rank while
serving as Director of the Division of In-
formation, Headquarters Marine Corps.
Brewer was born November 19, 1930,
in Durand, Mich. She received a B.A. in
geography from the University of Mich-
igan in 1952. She accepted appointment
as a second lieutenant in the Marine
Corps Reserve in 1952 and an appoint-
ment in the regular Marine Corps in
1956.
From 1956 to 1958, then-Captain
Brewer served as commanding officer of
the woman Marine companies at Norfolk,
Va., then Camp Lejeune, N.C. In 1958
and 1959, she was a platoon commander
for woman officer candidates at Quantico,
Va., during summer training sessions, and
for the balance of the time, a woman offi-
cer selection officer with headquarters in
Lexington, Ky.
From 1959 to 1963, she was at Camp
Pendleton, Calif., with the Commissioned
Officers Mess (Open). In 1963 she re-
turned to Quantico to serve as Executive
Officer and later as Commanding Officer
of the Woman Officer School. From 1966
to 1968, she was public affairs officer for
the 6th Marine Corps District in Atlanta.
Brewer served as Deputy Director of
Women Marines at Headquarters Marine
City, senior vice president for personnel, Corps from 1968 to 1971. She was pro-
GEORGE S. DILLON, 60, of Saddle River, N.J.,
chairman of the board of Airco, Inc.
ROY R. ESCARCEGA, 40, of Hacienda Heights,
Calif., vice president of the Social Services
Division of the East Los Angeles Community
Union.
GERTRUDE G. MICHELSON, 52, of New York
labor, and consumer relations for Macy's.
LESTER C. THUROW, 39, of Lincoln, Mass.,
professor of economics and management at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
moted to colonel in 1970. From 1971 to
1973, she was at Quantico, serving as
special assistant to the Director, then
697
