May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
gress to start moving toward final passage
of the first four bills and once again to
begin in earnest on the crude oil equaliza-
tion tax and the remaining provisions of
the tax bill. I am encouraged over the
prospects for the COET, because I think
there is a growing realization of the need
for us to stop subsidizing oil imports and
of the fact that COET is the best option
for achieving that goal.
President's Commission on
Personnel Interchange
Appointment of Seven Members.
May 25, 1978
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of seven persons as members of
the President's Commission on Personnel
Interchange for 2-year terms. They are:
NEIL L. CUNNINGHAM, vice president, market-
ing and public affairs, of the First American
National Bank in Nashville, Tenn.;
THOMAS W. DEWAELE, of Kailua, Oahu, Ha-
waii, president of small retail and wholesale
luggage and sporting goods businesses;
PATRICIA J. Knox, director of the Department
of Public Information for the city of
Detroit;
RICHARD E. PESQUEIRA, president of the Uni-
versity of Southern Colorado in Pueblo,
Colo.;
J. J. SIMMONS III, of Muskogee, Okla., vice
president and assistant to the chairman of
the board of Amerada Hess Corp. in New
York;
JULE M. SUGARMAN, Vice Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission;
PHILIP F. ZEIDMAN, a Washington attorney
and former General Counsel of the Small
Business Administration.
The President's Commission on Person-
nel Interchange was established in 1967 to
develop an executive interchange pro-
gram between the Federal Government
and private industry. Each year, a small
number of Federal employees take posi-
tions in the private sector, and a small
number of industry executives are placed
in Government positions. The Commis-
sion directs and monitors each year's ex-
change program.
Presidential Scholars
Remarks at the Presentation Ceremony of the
1978 Presidential Scholars Medallions.
May 25, 1978
WILLIAM L. PRESSLY. I welcome you to
this lovely occasion here in the Rose
Garden of the White House. It is the
President's own program for the recogni-
tion of excellence. It was created by an
Executive order by President Lyndon B.
Johnson in 1964. It honors a group of the
Nation's most intellectually distinguished
and accomplished high school seniors.
The purpose that President Johnson
stated is still valid, to recognize the most
precious resource of the United States, the
brainpower of our youth.
To encourage the pursuit of intellectual
attainment among all of our youth, we
select 121 scholars each year: two from
each of the States, a boy and a girl, two
from the District of Columbia, Puerto
Rico, and two from parents who are
American citizens living abroad, and
then we have 15 at large. So, we have a
total of 121.
Today it is 15 years old, and we are
honoring President Johnson for having
established the program and are delighted
to have members of his family here today.
You need to know that there are now
nearly 1,700 Presidential Scholars, and we
have invited many of them back. A study
is being made today of the accomplish-
ments of those who were the first Presiden-
tial Scholars, the first 5 years, and this
soon will be in book form.
President Carter and I were both born
in small towns in Georgia. Obviously, I
968
