Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 13
I should like to propose this toast for
better cooperation between Romania and
the United States, for a more democratic
international policy. I wish the people of
America prosperity and peace for all. To
your health, President Carter, to the
health of Mrs. Carter. We are looking for-
ward to seeing you in Romania. To your
health, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
President Ceausescu spoke in Romanian, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Visit of President Ceausescu
of Romania
Joint Declaration. April 13, 1978
The President of the United States of
America, Jimmy Carter, and the Presi-
dent of the Socialist Republic of Ro-
mania, Nicolae Ceausescu,
Having noted with satisfaction that the
political, economic, scientific, cultural and
other relations between the two countries
have developed significantly in recent
years,
Having determined to take further
steps to expand bilateral relations and co-
operation, to build security and develop
cooperation in Europe, to strengthen in-
ternational peace and security, and to seek
solutions for the manifold issues confront-
ing the world,
Agreed on the following Declaration:
I. They reaffirmed the commitment to
continue the development and expansion
of relations between the two countries on
the basis of the Joint Statement signed in
Washington on December 5, 1973 and of
the Joint Statement on Economic, In-
dustrial and Technical Cooperation be-
tween the United States of America and
the Socialist Republic of Romania of the
same date. These relations are based on
the purposes and principles of the United
Nations Charter and of the Declaration
on Principles Guiding Relations Between
Participating States of the Final Act of
the Conference on Security and Coopera-
tion in Europe, and consistent with these,
particularly on the following interrelated
principles:
The right of each state to existence,
freedom, independence and national
sovereignty;
The equal rights of all states, irrespec-
tive of their size, level of development,
and political, economic and social
systems;
The right of each state freely to choose
and develop its political, social, economic
and cultural system;
The right of each people to decide its
own destiny;
Refraining from the threat or use of
force inconsistent with the purposes of
the United Nations;
Respect for territorial integrity and in-
violability of frontiers;
Non-intervention, direct or indirect, for
any reason whatever, in the internal af-
fairs of any other state;
Peaceful settlement of international
disputes;
Observance of and promotion of respect
for human rights and fundamental free-
doms, including all the conditions re-
quired for a free, dignified and prosperous
life;
Cooperation among states in order to
promote world peace and security and
economic and social progress.
II. They stated their joint determination:
1. To continue meetings at the highest
level and consultations at other levels, and
to encourage interchanges between mem-
bers of legislatures and representatives of
local administration.
743
