Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
able to local governments. I suspect this
is an issue elsewhere in the country. Are
there any Federal initiatives that are be-
ing considered in this area?
The President. No, not to put a stat-
utory limit on what a local government
can do on taxation. I don't know of any
Federal-obviously, as we increase Fed-
eral contributions in the field of transpor-
tation or health, environmental quality,
education, that cuts down on the amount
of contribution that local taxpayers have
to pay.
When I was Governor of Georgia, I
did have a responsibility in that field, and
we cut property taxes substantially by giv-
ing refunds from the State government
derived from sales tax and income tax.
We have a pretty good income tax in
Georgia, but there is no Federal move-
ment to control the actions of local gov-
ernments or directly to restrain how much
property tax they can levy. I think that
is a responsibility of the State govern-
ments.
U.S. ATTORNEY DAVID MARSTON; SELEC-
TION OF U.S. ATTORNEYS AND JUDGES
Q. I'm Mike Renshaw, Mr. President,
from the Courier Times in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania. In retrospect, do you feel
that the Marston affair could have been
handled in a less inflammatory manner?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. I have lit-
erally hundreds of appointments to make,
and the Marston affair never came to my
attention at all. I never heard of Marston
until out in November.
This has become a very highly publi-
cized issue. If I had known a year ago
what I know now, I would have looked in
personally to what the circumstances were,
would have consulted very closely with
the Attorney General, who probably had
not much more knowledge of it than did
I, and would have handled it more expe-
ditiously and more openly and frankly.
This is an issue that I think has been
distorted. You know, my commitment to
the American people has been completely
honored, that the appointments to the
judiciary and to the Attorney General's
office would be handled on the basis of
merit. And in spite of dozens of appoint-
ments, we have never been accused of
making an appointment that wasn't
meritorious.
And in my debate with President Ford,
I said that all things being equal, that I
would appoint people to the Supreme
Court and to lesser offices who were com-
patible with my own basic philosophy. I
think the Attorney General has done the
best he could with it.
We initiated as aggressively as possible,
with the constraints placed on me by
custom and tradition in the Senate, a
merit selection of judges. And we've, for
instance, got in every Federal judicial
circuit now a merit selection board. And
they give to me recommendations, three,
four, five, six of the top quality, the best
nominees that they can discern for each
vacancy. And I've always chosen my ap-
pointments from those recommended.
On the district court judges, primarily
limited to the bounds of one State, I've
written all of the Democratic Senators a
personal letter, my first few weeks in of-
fice, asking them to appoint a similar
merit selection board. And I think 17 or
18 of them have already done that. So,
we are moving as strongly as we can to-
ward merit selection.
But the Marston case has been obvi-
ously a very serious problem for us, and
I regret that it happened. And had I
known a year ago what I know now, I
think we could certainly have handled it
better.
NOTE: The interview began at 1 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The transcript of the interview was released
on March 17.
524
