Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 7
with that of other nations at the same
equivalent stage of economic develop-
ment.
Agricultural production still remains a
serious problem for the Soviet Union, so
that in times of average or certainly ad-
verse conditions for crop production, they
must turn to us or turn to other nations
for food supplies.
We in our country are in a much more
favorable position. Our industrial base
and our productivity are unmatched. Our
scientific and technological capability is
superior to all others. Our alliances with
other free nations are strong and growing
stronger, and our military capability is
now and will be second to none.
In contrast to the Soviet Union, we
are surrounded by friendly neighbors and
wide seas. Our societal structure is stable
and cohesive, and our foreign policy en-
joys bipartisan public support, which
gives it continuity.
We are also strong because of what we
stand for as a nation: the realistic chance
for every person to build a better life;
protection by both law and custom from
arbitrary exercise of government power;
the right of every individual to speak out,
to participate fully in government, and to
share political power. Our philosophy is
based on personal freedom, the most pow-
erful of all ideas, and our democratic way
of life warrants the admiration and emu-
lation by other people throughout the
world.
Our work for human rights makes us
part of an international tide, growing in
force. We are strengthened by being part
of it.
Our growing economic strength is also
a major political factor, potential influ-
ence for the benefit of others. Our gross
national product exceeds that of all nine
nations combined in the European Eco-
nomic Community and is twice as great as
that of the Soviet Union. Additionally,
we are now learning how to use our re-
sources more wisely, creating a new har-
mony between our people and our en-
vironment.
Our analysis of American military
strength also furnishes a basis for confi-
dence. We know that neither the United
States nor the Soviet Union can launch a
nuclear assault on the other without suf-
fering a devastating counterattack which
could destroy the aggressor nation. Al-
though the Soviet Union has more missile
launchers, greater throw-weight, and
more continental air defense capabilities,
the United States has more warheads,
generally greater accuracy, more heavy
bombers, a more balanced nuclear force,
better missile submarines, and superior
antisubmarine warfare capability.
A successful SALT II agreement will
give both nations equal but lower ceilings
on missile launchers and also on missiles
with multiple warheads. We envision in
SALT III an even greater mutual reduc-
tion in nuclear weapons.
With essential nuclear equivalence, rel-
ative conventional force strength has now
become more important. The fact is that
the military capability of the United
States and its allies is adequate to meet
any foreseeable threat.
It is possible that each side tends to ex-
aggerate the military capability of the
other. Accurate analyses are important
as a basis for making decisions for the
future. False or excessive estimates of
Soviet strength or American weakness
contributes to the effectiveness of the So-
viet propaganda effort.
For example, recently alarming news
reports of the military budget proposals
for the U.S. Navy ignored the fact that
we have the highest defense budget in
history and that the largest portion of this
will go to the Navy.
1055
