Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 1
Jews were driven so many hundreds of
years ago.
It will always be a proud chapter in
the history of our own country that the
United States was the first nation to rec-
ognize the legal existence of Israel in
1948-30 long, fruitful, sometimes seem-
ingly short years in history.
George Santayana wrote that, and I
quote, "Those who cannot remember the
past are condemned to repeat it." The
past brutality against the Jewish people
throughout the world and the ultimate
tragedy of the Holocaust are events that
Jews will always remember, but they are
also lessons which this country and all the
civilized world should never forget.
Through the indomitable will and
character of its own people and with the
unshakable commitment of the United
States to its security, the existence of the
State of Israel will ensure for all times
that the Jewish people will not be con-
demned to repeat the Holocaust.
The policies of the United States Gov-
ernment have been influenced by these
indelible memories of the past. We con-
tinue to provide substantial economic
and military assistance to Israel. We have
obtained, this past year, tough antiboy-
cott legislation to protect from discrim-
ination American Jews and American
companies doing business with Israel. We
champion the human rights of Jews in
the Soviet Union and in other nations
and encourage their right of emigration.
We do these things because they are
right and because they are necessary and
because they are true to the traditions of
our country.
Many nations have memorials to the
Holocaust victims. There is no such
formal memorial in the United States.
To ensure that we in the United States
never forget, I will appoint immediately
a Presidential commission to report to me
within 6 months on an appropriate
memorial in this country to the 6 million
who were killed in the Holocaust.
We may from time to time have our
transient differences with the leaders of
Israel [laughter]—as we do with leaders
of other countries who are our close
friends and allies. But we will never
waver from our deep friendship and
partnership with Israel and our total,
absolute commitment to Israel's security.
The establishment of the nation of Is-
rael is a fulfillment of Biblical prophecy
and the very essence of its fulfillment. In
the Jewish tradition, 30 stands for the
age of strength, and Israel, thank God, is
strong.
There is a Jewish saying, "From
strength to strength." And I trust that
Israel will indeed evolve from a strength
rooted in determination and vigilance to
a strength that is reinforced and main-
tained by a just and lasting peace with
its neighbors.
That prospect is coming closer to real-
ity today than at any time since the crea-
tion of a State of Israel. We remain
deeply committed to help in any possible
way to bring the day closer when Israel
will live in security and in peace. For 30
years we have stood at the side of the
proud and independent nation of Israel.
I can say without reservation, as the
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, that we will continue to do so, not just
for another 30 years but forever.
Thank you very much.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
our dear friends, may I humbly tell you
that today we heard from the President
of the United States one of the greatest
moral statements ever.
We have always believed in the moral
greatness of America. We appeal to it in
difficult times. We never lost hope that it
will win, because we have always remem-
813
