June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
by the Federal Government contributes
to it also.
The first thing I mentioned is out of
our control. We can't undo the Vietnam
war. We can't change worldwide oil
prices. But the third one, the huge oil im-
ports, will bring to us a much better con-
trol of inflation when we have a national
energy policy.
And the last one, Government spend-
ing, is something that we must attack
right now on many different points. We
are simply spending too much money in
the Federal Government, more than we
take in in taxes. We have got to cut down
the Federal budget, and I'm determined
to do so.
Now, the budget that we prepared last
winter predicted a large deficit. By pro-
posing a lower tax reduction, we now
hope to cut that down by $7 billion, but
the deficit is still too high. And even re-
duction in the deficit that I've outlined
is threatened by recent spending moves in
the Congress. These proposed increases
come in very attractive areas. It's not easy
to refuse additional funds for such things
as veterans, or those who build roads, wa-
ter projects, farmers, defense, education,
for example. But somebody has to hold
the line on spending and I'm willing to
do so, even if it means that I have to take
the political consequences.
Still, my own efforts will only be a small
part of the job. Congress must help, pri-
vate industry must help, labor must help,
and all of you in your daily lives must
help. Short-sighted selfishness can lead to
a spiral of inflation that nobody will be
able to stop. Only self-discipline, some
sacrifice in the public interest can slow
that spiral.
I call on each of you today, and I call
on each Member of Congress to help cre-
ate a climate of mutual sacrifice that alone
can curb inflation.
I know I can count on Jack Brooks, I
know I can count on Senator Bentsen, I
know I can count on Texas, I know I can
count on the American people to control
inflation and to make our great Govern-
ment an even better one.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
Where did Ray Starnes go? I want to
introduce you all to somebody.
When I was a new graduate of the
Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1946, I
went to the U.S.S. Wyoming as electronics
officer. I had a fine young man who
worked with me and under me named
Starnes. And he was a superb public
servant as a young eager petty officer in
the Navy. He made petty officer after 6
months, and I helped him a little bit.
I left the Wyoming and went to another
ship. And I haven't seen Ray Starnes now
in 30 years. He's a member of the com-
munity here in Beaumont. And for the
first time in 30 years I want to shake hands
with a young man who meant a lot to me,
who's a very close friend of mine. It's an
honor for me to meet him.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:36 a.m. at
the Jack Brooks Federal Building-U.S. Post
Office and Courthouse. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Mayor Maurice Myers of Beau-
mont and General Services Administrator Joel
W. Solomon.
Fort Hood, Texas
Informal Exchange With Reporters.
June 24, 1978
REPORTER. Mr. President, what's the
message here today?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the re-
sponsibilities that I have, perhaps, poten-
tially the most important, is to be the
Commander in Chief of all the Armed
1176
