Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
the status of that family might be, no
matter what their income might be.
We're not going to make any loans in this
area," which condemned that part of a
city to death. And under the leadership
of Bob McKinney, who now heads up
the Home Loan Board, that's been pro-
hibited. And we are trying to eliminate
redlining around our country.
So, I can't tell you that we have a pro-
gram in government now or in the future
that would let a young couple with a very
limited income buy a $70,000 home. But
we are trying to do other things that
would tailor government programs
through guaranteed loans, renovation of
old houses, rent supplements for those
with very low income, public housing
projects where they are needed, Section
212 programs for retired people, older
people, high-rise houses or homes in
downtown urban areas, like in New York,
the renovation of homes that I've just de-
scribed in Watts-we're trying to have a
comprehensive program.
And the last thing I'd like to say is
this: Under the leadership of Pat Harris,
who happens to be a black woman, head
of the Housing and Urban Development
Department, we have a group of people
who are genuine homebuilders working.
They are not there to try to find some ex-
cuse not to build homes. They're there
to work with knowledge of their past ex-
perience on how to rejuvenate these old
areas and put people in homes that they
own themselves or can afford to rent.
I haven't given you a good answer to
your specific question, but that's the best
answer I can give. And I believe that
over a period of time you will see that the
kinds of programs that we are now im-
plementing, with the help of Congress
and the enthusiastic administration of
the programs that already exist and the
new urban policy that's just now begin-
ning to have life, these things collectively
will correct a lot of the defects that have
long existed in the desire of American
people to have a home that they can call
their own.
SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, my name is Steve
Rothschild, and I would like to ask you,
do you view the recent intervention of
Russia and Cuba in Africa as a test of
U.S. policy? In other words, what is U.S.
policy toward Soviet intervention in
Third World nations?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we are holding
our own in the so-called peaceful com-
petition with the Soviet Union, in Africa
and in other parts of the world. Again, I
hate to refer repeatedly to what existed in
the past, but I think it's accurate to say
that never before in the history of our
Nation have we shown any substantial in-
terest in the continent of Africa.
Just a few weeks ago I visited Nigeria,
the greatest nation in Africa in many
ways-economically, population, vigor,
influence, growing influence. There are
about 100 million people who live in Ni-
geria. It's one of the present and future
leaders of black Africa. I was the first
American President, by the way, in the
history of our country who had ever made
an official visit to a black African nation.
Two or three years ago when Secre-
tary Kissinger wanted to go and visit Ni-
geria, the country would not even let him
enter that country. But I was received
with open arms in a tremendous outpour-
ing of friendship and realization of mu-
tual purpose.
We are trying to do the same thing in
other parts of Africa, particularly where
the black nations exist. We've got a good
advantage in having a man like Andrew
Young head our United Nations delega-
tion. He's trusted by black people, not only
in Africa but in the Caribbean area, in
871
