Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Council on Wage and Price Stabil-
ity will continue to play an important role
in supplementing fiscal and monetary pol-
icies by calling public attention to wage
and price developments or actions by the
government that could be of concern to
American consumers.
The White House,
April 7, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "A Quarterly Re-
port of the Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility, With a Special Report on Inflation-
April 1978, Executive Office of the President,
Washington, D.C., No. 13" (Government
Printing Office, 121 pages plus appendices).
Enhanced Radiation Weapons
Statement by the President. April 7, 1978
I have decided to defer production of
weapons with enhanced radiation effects.
The ultimate decision regarding the incor-
poration of enhanced radiation features
into our modernized battlefield weap-
ons will be made later, and will be influ-
enced by the degree to which the Soviet
Union shows restraint in its conventional
and nuclear arms programs and force de-
ployments affecting the security of the
United States and Western Europe.
Accordingly, I have ordered the De-
fense Department to proceed with the
modernization of the Lance missile nu-
clear warhead and the 8-inch weapon sys-
tem, leaving open the option of installing
the enhanced radiation elements.
The United States is consulting with its
partners in the North Atlantic Alliance
on this decision and will continue to dis-
cuss with them appropriate arms control
measures to be pursued with the Soviet
Union.
We will continue to move ahead with
our allies to modernize and strengthen
our military capabilities, both conven-
tional and nuclear. We are determined to
do whatever is necessary to assure our col-
lective security and the forward defense
of Europe.
Federal Council on the Aging
Nomination of Nine Members. April 7, 1978
The President today announced the
nomination of nine persons to be members
of the Federal Council on the Aging.
They are:
NELSON H. CRUIKSHANK, of Washington,
D.C., currently Chairman of the Council,
for reappointment;
FANNIE B. DORSEY, chairperson of the State
Institute of Aging in Frankfort, Ky.;
HOBART C. JACKSON, SR., founder and first
chairman of the National Caucus on the
Black Aged and executive vice president
and director of the Stephen Smith Geria-
tric Center in Philadelphia (reappoint-
ment);
MARY A. MARSHALL, a member of the Vir-
ginia House of Delegates and chairman of
the Legislative Study Commission on the
Needs of Elderly Virginians;
WALTER L. MOFFETT, of Kamiah, Idaho, a
Presbyterian minister and director of the
Nez Perce Tribe Housing Authority;
Bernice L. NEUGARTEN, a professor in the de-
partment of behavioral sciences and school
of social service administration at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, past president of the
Gerontological Society, and member of the
governing board of the International Asso-
ciation of Gerontology;
JAMES T. SYKES, chairman of the Wisconsin
Board on Aging;
FERNANDO M. TORRES-GIL, a lecturer at the
Andrus Gerontology Center and department
of sociology at the University of Southern
California;
WESLEY C. UHLMAN, a Seattle attorney and
former mayor of Seattle.
702
