Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 28
Persons with heart conditions, diabetes,
epilepsy, and severe allergies, and those
who are taking special medication are
among the many whose lives have been
saved through the Medic Alert system.
Indigent people can receive this valuable
service free.
It is appropriate that the people of the
United States consider the contributions
to the public health of the Medic Alert
program.
The Annual Report is being forwarded
so that it is available to the Congress for
its deliberations.
The White House,
March 28, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 42-page report is entitled "The
Corporation for Public Broadcasting 1977 An-
nual Report."
I applaud the contributions of the
Medic Alert program to the public Caracas, Venezuela
health, and urge Americans to give the
Medic Alert program their full support.
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 28, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
Enclosed is the "Annual Report of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting for
FY 1977," prepared in accordance with
the requirement of Section 396 (i) of the
Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 (Public
Law 90-129) as amended.
The Corporation has again prepared a
thoughtful report which highlights its ef-
forts for the past fiscal year. The accom-
plishments of public broadcasting are well
articulated with emphasis on television
and radio programming, technological in-
novation, and human development serv-
ices.
It should be noted that the projections
of long range Federal financial contribu-
tions from the Federal Government ex-
ceed levels contained in the Administra-
tion's legislative proposal to reauthorize
the Corporation for the period FY 1981-
85.
Remarks of President Carter and President
Carlos Andrés Pérez at the Welcoming
Ceremony. March 28, 1978
PRESIDENT PÉREZ. Mr. President, Jimmy
Carter, Mrs. Rosalynn:
It is with great satisfaction that we
Venezuelans receive today your visit
among us. You, President Carter, and
your wife have been a very well known
spokesman and advocates of the cause of
universal democracy. For Venezuela,
because of this reason, it is a very spe-
cial satisfaction to have you here, and it
is a great satisfaction for us to see
that our homeland is the first country you
visit in this trip to Latin America, Mr.
President.
You come to Latin America at a time
when all of our peoples are directing their
eyes and their ears towards the Congress of
the United States, towards this great de-
bate which the Senate has at present,
which will decide the fate of the relations
between South America and North Amer-
ica. Each word pronounced there is of
enormous importance, and it will have a
very deep impact on Latin America.
When we, the Presidents and Chiefs of
State of Latin America, went to Wash-
ington and met at the headquarters of the
OAS, at that time all of our peoples of
Latin America, whatever be their race,
their creed, or the origin of their govern-
613
