Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 24
of Pennsylvania of such severity that a
temporary suspension of certain particu-
late and sulfur dioxide control regulations
under the Pennsylvania Air Quality Im-
plementation Plan may be necessary, and
that other means of responding to the
energy emergency may be inadequate.
This determination shall be effective for
not more than thirty (30) days, provided
ures so that the necessity for suspension
of pollution control regulations can be
minimized.
NOTE: The Presidential determination is
printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March 24,
1978.
Appointment of Seven Members.
February 24, 1978
that the State of Pennsylvania shall hold Federal Service Impasses Panel
the public hearing required by Section
110(f) of the Clean Air Act within 1
week of this determination. If, during the
period of suspension, I find that a regional
energy emergency no longer exists in
Pennsylvania, I will direct that this deter-
mination of regional energy emergency
be rescinded and that all suspension
orders issued by the Governor be termi-
nated effective on the day of that
rescission. The Administrator of the En-
vironmental Protection Agency retains full
authority to disapprove temporary sus-
pensions of regulations in Pennsylvania
and to exercise his emergency powers au-
thority under Section 303 of the Clean
Air Act, when and if necessary.
The President today announced the
appointment of seven persons as mem-
bers of the Federal Service Impasses
Panel. They are:
I urge the Governor to act with due
care if he suspends air pollution regula-
tions under the authority provided by this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health. In
conducting hearings and making findings,
I urge the Governor to consider carefully
that suspensions which would allow a fa-
cility to burn available fuel which could
not otherwise be utilized generally are
appropriate. On the other hand, suspen-
sions which permit facilities to turn off
pollution control devices should be used
sparingly and as a last resort, because such
suspensions will accomplish only small
energy savings while increasing risks to
public health.
I also urge the Governor to implement
fully necessary energy conservation meas-
IRVING BERNSTEIN, professor of political science
and research associate at UCLA;
HOWARD G. GAMSER, Washington attorney and
arbitrator and adjunct professor of labor
law at Georgetown University (also ap-
pointed Chairman of the Panel);
JAMES E. JONES, JR., professor of law and in-
dustrial relations and director of the Center
for Equal Employment and Affirmative Ac-
tion at the University of Wisconsin's Indus-
trial Relations Research Institute;
JEAN T. MCKELVEY, professor at Cornell's
School of Industrial and Labor Relations;
CHARLES J. MORRIS, labor arbitrator, profes-
sor at the School of Law, Southern Meth-
odist University, and presently visiting pro-
fessor at the School of Industrial and Labor
Relations at Cornell;
BEVERLY K. SCHAFFER, professor of economics
at Emory University in Atlanta;
ARTHUR STARK, president of the National
Academy of Arbitrators and currently a
member of this Panel.
The Federal Service Impasses Panel is
an agency of the Federal Labor Relations
Council and recommends solutions to ne-
gotiation impasses when voluntary ar-
rangements, including the services of the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Serv-
ice or other third-party mediation, fail
to resolve a negotiation impasse.
411
