Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
So, that describes as best I can my atti-
tude on the subject. If the courts rule
that the people's interests are being met by
continuation of the Seabrook plant, in
spite of my own record as a very devout
environmentalist, as President, I would
approve its construction.
Thank you.
AFRICA
Q. Mr. President, I am David Young
from Fall Mountain Regional High
School in Alstead, New Hampshire. My
question to you is this: The Soviet Union
and Cuba are supplying Communist in-
fluences in south African nations with
arms, technical assistance, and troops.
Why is the United States not being a po-
litical and military leader and just being
a political liaison?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you probably
know, up until just recently, our country
played no significant role at all in Africa.
Since I've been in office, we have greatly
increased our interest, involvement, and
influence in Africa-southern Africa, to
which you refer, and also the rest of the
continent.
I would say that on the West Coast
of Africa or among the black nations, the
most heavily populated, the most power-
ful, the most influential, perhaps the
perhaps the
richest, is Nigeria.
Earlier, when Secretary Henry Kis-
singer tried to go to Nigeria for a visit,
they refused to permit him even to come
into their country. Because of the superb
leadership of Andrew Young and his trust
throughout the continent of Africa, we
now have a very good friendship with
Nigeria.
During the Easter recess of the Con-
gress, I intend to go to Nigeria, to Lagos,
to meet with the leaders there. We have
formed with the British, French, Ger-
mans, Canadians, a five-nation bargaining
committee who are now working between
the Southwest Africa People's Organiza-
tion-we call it SWAPO-and the South
Africans to resolve the questions in
Namibia.
Just this past week-this week, as a
matter of fact, Cy Vance, our Secretary
of State, was in New York at the United
Nations meeting with the Foreign Min-
ister of South Africa and the leader of the
SWAPO organization to try to provide
majority rule in the territory in the south-
ern and western part, formerly known as
Southwest Africa.
In Rhodesia, again, we have joined
with the British, who legally still have
responsibility for Rhodesia, to bring about
a resolution of those differences a peace-
ful resolution of those differences-based
on majority rule, based on the right of
any person more than 18 years old to vote
to choose the leaders who present them-
selves in a free, open, and democratic
election, to try to assuage the legitimate
demands of the blacks who live there un-
der the domination of a very small group
of whites.
We look upon South Africa and their
form of apartheid as completely contrary
to the principles that Americans have al-
ways espoused. The only American leader
that I know who's endorsed, in effect,
apartheid and condoned or approved the
attitude of the South African Government
is your own Governor here in New Hamp-
shire.
But there is a growing realization
throughout Africa, I believe, that the
United States is a strong and formidable
force. I might say that we have not been
successful in Angola. There is a govern-
ment there headed by Mr. Neto, who is
not a friend of ours. There is still a guer-
rilla movement there under the leadership
of a man named Savimbe, who still strug-
gles for ultimate power in Angola. He is
supported by several of the European
nations, directly or indirectly.
374
