June 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
now or hereafter prescribed by law for
level IV of the Executive Schedule, one
of whom shall be compensated at the rate
now or hereafter prescribed by law for
level V of the Executive Schedule and
one of whom shall be compensated at the
rate now or hereafter prescribed by law
for GS-18 of the General Schedule. The
Associate Directors shall perform such
functions as the Director may from time
to time prescribe.
SECTION 105. Regional Directors. There
shall be within the Agency ten regional
directors who shall be appointed by the
Director in the excepted service and shall
be compensated at the rate now or here-
after prescribed by law for GS-16 of the
General Schedule.
SECTION 106. Performance of Func-
tions. The Director may establish bureaus,
offices, divisions, and other units within
the Agency. The Director may from time
to time make provision for the perform-
ance of any function of the Director by
any officer, employee, or unit of the
Agency.
PART II. TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS
SECTION 201. Fire Prevention. There
are hereby transferred to the Director all
functions vested in the Secretary of Com-
merce, the Administrator and Deputy Ad-
ministrator of the National Fire Preven-
tion and Control Administration, and the
Superintendent of the National Academy
for Fire Prevention and Control pursuant
to the Federal Fire Prevention and Con-
trol Act of 1974, as amended, (15 U.S.C.
2201 through 2219); exclusive of the
functions set forth at Sections 18 and 23
of the Federal Fire Prevention and Con-
trol Act (15 U.S.C. 278 (f) and 1511).
SECTION 202. Flood and Other Matters.
There are hereby transferred to the Di-
rector all functions vested in the Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development
pursuant to the National Flood Insurance
Act of 1968, as amended, and the Flood
Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as
amended, (42 U.S.C. 2414 and 42 U.S.C.
4001 through 4128), and Section 1 of the
National Insurance Development Act of
1975, as amended, (89 Stat. 68).
SECTION 203. Emergency Broadcast
System. There are hereby transferred to
the Director all functions concerning the
Emergency Broadcast System, which were
transferred to the President and all such
functions transferred to the Secretary of
Commerce, by Reorganization Plan Num-
ber 1.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 301. Transfer and Abolish-
ment of Agencies and Officers. The Na-
tional Fire Prevention and Control Ad-
ministration and the National Academy
for Fire Prevention and Control and the
positions of Administrator of said Admin-
istration and Superintendent of said
Academy are hereby transferred to the
Agency. The position of Deputy Admin-
istrator of said Administration (estab-
lished by 15 U.S.C. 2204 (c)) is hereby
abolished.
SECTION 302. Incidental Transfers. So
much of the personnel, property, records,
and unexpended balances of appropria-
tions, allocations and other funds em-
ployed, used, held, available, or to be
made available in connection with the
functions transferred under this Plan, as
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall determine, shall be
transferred to the appropriate agency, or
component at such time or times as the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall provide, except that no
such unexpended balances transferred
shall be used for purposes other than those
for which the appropriation was originally
made. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall provide for ter-
1132
