Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 3
of opportunity and freedom for all our
people. And the example that you have
set in Africa has indeed been inspirational
not only to us in the United States but
also to others in this continent who have
seen the stability and the enlightened
leadership provided from your great
country.
I've also known and admired your
President, President Tolbert, long before
I became President of the United States,
even before I became Governor of
Georgia.
As a Baptist, he was recognized in reli-
gious circles as a preeminent person in our
denomination. As president of the Baptist
World Alliance, he again showed the
commitment to equality of opportunity
among all people. He was the first black
man who ever honored Baptists by serv-
ing as our leader. And during that time
when he was a religious leader, he was
also Vice President of your country, and
he combined the knowledge of his fre-
quent travels throughout Liberia, to the
most distant recesses of your country, with
his travels around the world, to shape his
own mind and his own heart toward bet-
ter service for you and for his fellow men
even to today.
I noticed the first sign as we rounded
the corner coming from the airport
taught us something in America. It said,
"No joke, no imported rice in 1980."
[Laughter] I'm going to take this message
back to Dr. James Schlesinger in our
country and have a slogan, "No joke, no
imported oil in the future, because we're
going to do a good job on energy." But I
noticed that as we rode in, and he gave
me a very instructive presentation of the
problems and opportunities, the achieve-
ments and the challenges of your country,
how much he knew intimately and per-
sonally about the needs of the average
citizen in Liberia, who's not yet been
blessed adequately.
The President tells me that he grows his
own rice now, and he not only has enough
for his own family but he shares it with his
neighbors. And this spirit of self-suffi-
ciency, even in the face of poverty in some
parts of your country, is indeed again an
inspiration to us.
I've had a chance to talk to him briefly
about some of the other problems in
Africa.
As black men struggle, black women
struggle to achieve the right to shape
their own lives, to choose their own gov-
ernment, to manage their own future-
we've not reached this goal in your con-
tinent. And in Zimbabwe, in Namibia, in
South Africa, we share a common hope
of majority rule of freedom of expression
of one's own will in shaping the family
and the human life, and a freedom from
racial discrimination, apartheid in all its
heinous aspects.
I think that you all recognize, as a very
close friend of the United States, that our
intimate involvement in using our influ-
ence in Africa in a beneficial way has
been a recent development. It's not an ini-
tiative of mine or other leaders of our
country who came before me. I think it's
a true expression of the growing interest
that existed in the hearts and the minds
of American citizens before Government
leaders accurately represented what our
people truly wanted.
The black citizens of the United States
have reminded those of us who happen to
be white of a need and the opportunities
for us here. It's not been a matter of the
United States doing a favor to the peo-
ple of Africa. It's a matter of the United
States acting in its own best interests, be-
cause we know, now and in the future,
that our economic well-being, the politi-
cal stability of the world, the peace that
we all desire and cherish, can only come
with a stable, free, and independent Af-
rica and as your President has just so
24-400 - 79-44
677
