Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
may extend classification beyond twenty
years, but only in accordance with Sec-
tions 3-3 and 3-402. This authority may
not be delegated. When classification is
extended beyond twenty years, a date no
more than ten years later shall be set for
declassification or for the next review.
That date shall be marked on the docu-
ment. Subsequent reviews for declassifi-
cation shall be set at no more than ten
year intervals. The Director of the Infor-
mation Security Oversight Office may
extend the period between subsequent re-
views for specific categories of documents
or information.
3-402. Within 180 days after the ef-
fective date of this Order, the agency
heads listed in Section 1-2 and the heads
of agencies which had original classifica-
tion authority under prior orders shall,
after consultation with the Archivist of
the United States and review by the In-
formation Security Oversight Office, is-
sue and maintain guidelines for system-
atic review covering twenty-year old
classified information under their juris-
diction. These guidelines shall state spe-
cific, limited categories of information
which, because of their national security
sensitivity, should not be declassified au-
tomatically but should be reviewed item-
by-item to determine whether continued
protection beyond twenty years is needed.
These guidelines shall be authorized for
use by the Archivist of the United States
and may, upon approval of the issuing
authority, be used by any agency having
custody of the information. All informa-
tion not identified in these guidelines as
requiring review and for which a prior
automatic declassification date has not
been established shall be declassified au-
tomatically at the end of twenty years
from the date of original classification.
3-403. Notwithstanding Sections 3-
401 and 3-402, the Secretary of Defense
may establish special procedures for sys-
tematic review and declassification of
classified cryptologic information, and
the Director of Central Intelligence may
establish special procedures for systematic
review and declassification of classified
information concerning the identities of
clandestine human agents. These proce-
dures shall be consistent, so far as prac-
ticable, with the objectives of Sections
3-401 and 3-402. Prior to implementa-
tion, they shall be reviewed and approved
by the Director of the Information Se-
curity Oversight Office and, with respect
to matters pertaining to intelligence
sources and methods, by the Director of
Central Intelligence. Disapproval of pro-
cedures by the Director of the Informa-
tion Security Oversight Office may be ap-
pealed to the National Security Council.
In such cases, the procedures shall not be
implemented until the appeal is decided.
3-404. Foreign government informa-
tion shall be exempt from automatic de-
classification and twenty year systematic
review. Unless declassified earlier, such
information shall be reviewed for de-
classification thirty years from its date of
origin. Such review shall be in accord-
ance with the provisions of Section 3-3
and with guidelines developed by agency
heads in consultation with the Archivist
of the United States and, where appro-
priate, with the foreign government or
international organization concerned.
These guidelines shall be authorized for
use by the Archivist of the United States
and may, upon approval of the issuing
authority, be used by any agency having
custody of the information.
3-405. Transition to systematic review
at twenty years shall be implemented as
rapidly as practicable and shall be com-
pleted no more than ten years from the
effective date of this Order.
1201
