Jan. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
exemption for insurance proceeds.
(3) Integration of Qualified Retire-
ment Plans and Social Security. Certain
employer-sponsored retirement plans have
a preferred tax status. Employer contribu-
tions to a qualified plan are currently de-
ductible while the employee can defer
taxation until retirement benefits are re-
ceived. Although qualification for this spe-
cial treatment is generally dependent upon
non-discriminatory coverage of employees,
the tax laws now permit a qualified plan
to cover only employees who earn amounts
exceeding the social security wage base-
a base that will rise to $25,900 by 1980
under the recently enacted social security
financing legislation.
It is unfair to grant tax preferences for
private pension plans that bar all low and
middle-income employees from participa-
tion. I propose that a new integration
formula be enacted so that a qualified
pension plan cannot provide benefits to
supplement social security for highly com-
pensated employees unless all employees
receive some coverage under the plan.
Unemployment Compensation
Unemployment compensation is a sub-
stitute for wages that generally provides
needed relief to persons in financial dis-
tress. But, in some cases, the unemploy-
ment compensation system discourages
work for taxable income. Since unemploy-
ment benefits are tax-free, they are more
valuable than an equivalent amount of
wages. This means that if two individuals
have the same total income, the one who
remains idle several months and receives
unemployment compensation will be bet-
ter off financially than his colleague who
works the whole year. There can be no
justification for conferring this tax-free
benefit upon middle and upper-income
workers.
I propose that the current tax exemp-
tion for unemployment compensation ben-
efits be phased out as an individual's in-
come rises above $20,000 for single per-
sons or $25,000 for married couples.
Taxable Bond Option and Industrial De-
velopment Bonds
Present law exempts from Federal tax-
ation the interest on certain bonds issued
by state and local governments. There are
now two general categories of tax-exempt
bonds: obligations issued for the benefit
of the state and local government itself,
and industrial development bonds issued
by the government to provide facilities
such as pollution control equipment,
sports facilities, waste disposal facilities,
industrial parks, and facilities (including
hospitals) of private, non-profit organiza-
tions. Also, there is a "small issue” exemp-
tion for certain industrial development
bonds with face amounts that do not ex-
ceed $1 million, or $5 million where the
total cost of capital expenditures on the
financed facility does not exceed the $5
million amount.
My tax program preserves the freedom
of state and local governments to issue
tax-exempt bonds. I am recommending
reforms that will restrict the tax avoid-
ance opportunities available to the
wealthy in the tax-exempt market while,
at the same time, increasing the ability of
state and local governments to obtain low-
cost financing. In particular, I propose
the following:
(1) Option for Bonds Benefitting Gov-
ernmental Units. State and local govern-
ments will be given the option of continu-
ing to issue tax-exempt bonds or issuing
fully taxable bonds, accompanied by a di-
rect Federal interest subsidy to the gov-
ernmental units. For bonds issued in 1979
and 1980, the subsidy will be equal to 35
percent of the interest cost; the subsidy
will rise to 40 percent for bonds issued
after 1980. The Federal government will
exercise no control over the purposes for
1
170
