May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
this month, I spoke here at the Nutrition
Center during the California primary. A
lot has happened to me since then-
[laughter] and I saw as we came
through a few minutes ago, around
Franklin Square and in five or six other
places, with the move on housing, that
many things have been happening to you
here in Watts. And I want to congratu-
late all of you who are responsible for
making this community grow and thrive
and be bound close together in a spirit of
brotherhood and sisterhood and make
progress. Thanks to you and all those on
the stage with me.
I know that the Watts area has a lot of
problems, but you've got a lot going on
among all of you that's almost guaran-
teed to make the future even brighter.
You've got Gus Hawkins, Ted Watkins.
I've been talking to Gus in the automo-
bile just a few minutes ago, and I'm
working with him now in the Senate-
we've already been successful in the
House-to pass the Humphrey-Hawkins
full employment bill that's going to help
all of you and your neighbors.
this community, to let people own even
more homes.
Other financial institutions have joined
to provide storefront mortgaging counsel-
ing and to fund the Hope program. I
know Mayor Bradley is very proud of
that program. It's amazing how many
people in our Nation don't know how to
go and get financial assistance, to borrow
some money, to buy furniture, to buy a
home. And they need counseling, they
need to be taught. And it doesn't have to
be done by government agencies.
When you have enlightened public of-
ficials like these and enlightened lending
institutions like you have, it makes it
much easier for you to meet your needs.
Like
most inner-city neighborhoods,
Watts has problems with redlining, where
banks say we will make no loans, no
matter what the quality of the family, no
matter how secure their jobs in a certain
part of our cities.
With my strong support, the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board has issued
tough, new rules which will help end
redlining in all parts of the country. And
you've set a good example here.
We've doubled money available for
repairing and rehabilitating homes, and
this has also been supplemented by new
money to build more new housing for the
low- and the moderate-income families.
You've got the largest percentage of
homeowners of any urban black commu-
nity in the whole country. And that
speaks well of you, because I know of
nothing that can create more security
now and a better prospect for the future,
for your children and your grandchil- We've cut the FHA downpayments, and
dren, than to have a place you can call
your own, a permanent home. And that's
a fact that's not very well known around
our country, about Watts, but it shows
that you've got the spirit to overcome
difficulties and plan for a great future.
And you've got people like Elvin Hud-
son at the Broadway Federal Savings
and Loan who care enough-I wish all
bankers did this-but he cares enough so
that 90 percent of all the deposits made
in his bank are loaned out, right here in
we've increased the insurance for mort-
gages to make it easier for the moderate-
income family to become homeowners.
The new urban policy that we recently
announced will further aid areas like
Watts. It will provide employment tax
credits and expanded training subsidies
to encourage private industry to hire the
unemployed who especially have a diffi-
cult time getting a job.
We're providing low-interest loans
through a new national development
bank, an expanded economic develop-
842
