Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
ess-to improve its own means of estab-
lishing priorities. This administration has
worked closely with the congressional ap-
propriations and budget committees and
has found them invaluable sources of ad-
vice. We will continue in this spirit of
cooperation, and I look forward to work-
ing with the Congress and its leadership
to obtain adoption of my budget for fis-
cal year 1979.
January 20, 1978.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The President's message is printed in the
report entitled "The Budget of the United
States Government, Fiscal Year 1979" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 506 pages), which
was released on January 23.
Secretary of State Vance's
Trip to the Middle East
White House Statement on the President's
Meeting With Secretary Vance.
January 23, 1978
Secretary Vance reported this evening
to the President on his trip last week to
the Middle East to attend the opening ses-
sions of the Political Committee of the
Cairo Conference in Jerusalem and on his
visits to Greece and Turkey this past
weekend.
On the Middle East, Secretary Vance
described for the President the work on
a declaration of principles which would
govern the negotiation of a comprehen-
sive peace settlement in the Middle East
that had begun in the Political Commit-
tee before the Egyptian delegation was
withdrawn.
The Secretary expressed his judgment
that, while the work of the Political Com-
mittee is temporarily suspended, the nego-
tiating process can continue. Both the
President and the Secretary have urged
that discussions between Egypt and Israel
in the Security Committee of the Cairo
Conference continue. They hope that
these talks may resume soon. The Presi-
dent stressed that we are prepared to con-
tinue the exchanges with Prime Minister
Begin and President Sadat that the Secre-
tary began last week on a declaration of
principles. Assistant Secretary Atherton
is staying in the Middle East to be helpful
in this effort.
The President and the Secretary ex-
pressed the hope that the public ex-
changes of recent days are now behind us
and that every effort will be made to re-
capture the spirit that followed recent
meetings between Prime Minister Begin
and President Sadat and to turn full at-
tention through quiet diplomacy to the
substance of the negotiations.
Secretary Vance also reported on his
brief visits to Ankara and Athens. In each
place, he had extended discussions with
the respective leaders on matters of bi-
lateral cooperation and on regional and
global issues of concern to us as allies. No
decisions were taken in these conversa-
tions. Our ties with both countries remain
strong and vital.
United States Foreign
Intelligence Activities
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12036.
January 24, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This morning, we've
gathered to sign an Executive order which
makes a major stride forward in better
coordination within the Intelligence Com-
munity.
One of the pleasant experiences that
I've had as President is to see the profes-
189
