June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
one,
dent now, I feel a sincere debt of gratitude
to this great Texan, this great American.
Emerson said that the two national
parties have always been divided:
the party of memory, and the other one,
the party of hope. Our party, the oldest
political party in the world, is still the
party of hope, of youth, and of vitality.
That's why I'm convinced that John Hill
will be Texas' next Governor. And that's
why I'm convinced that Bob Krueger will
go to the United States Senate, and to
replace almost 200 years of congressional
seniority, why eight bright, energetic
Texans running for the seats of retired
Texas Representatives in the House will
win this fall.
And Texans will not be the only win-
ners. We have other winners here tonight.
New Mexico's Bruce King will go back
in as Governor. And one of the brightest
young American politicians, Bill Clinton,
will be the new Governor in Arkansas.
Our candidates will win, because the
Democratic Party is the party of hope.
But it's also the party of leadership and
compassion. The Texas party and the na-
tional party work together. Texas Dem-
ocrats don't waste time fighting other
Democrats after the primaries. And I
would particularly like to cite Joe Chris-
tie as a wonderful example of this atti-
tude.
The Texas party and the Oklahoma,
Arkansas, New Mexico, and the national
parties share the same basic goals-fairer
taxes, lower taxes, more money in Ameri-
can workers' pockets.
Last year, the Democratic Congress re-
duced income taxes $6 billion. This year,
I hope to see the Congress reduce income
taxes another $15 or $20 billion. We be-
lieve in work, fewer handouts for those
able to work, more jobs for them, more
able Americans off the dole, onto the
payroll.
We're considering welfare reform to
accomplish this purpose, and we believe
that jobs primarily ought to come in the
private sector of our economy, with the
government filling in those areas for peo-
ple that are the last to be hired and the
first to be fired and who need to be intro-
duced to what it means in this great coun-
try to hold a job, to have one's own ca-
pability realized in productive effort.
We believe in balanced budgets, we be-
lieve that public officials ought to be
eagle-eyed and tight-fisted about govern-
ment expenditures, that we ought to be
prudent trustees of the taxpayers' money.
We believe that government waste ought
to be eliminated, that mismanagement
should be corrected. We believe in put-
ting merit back in the merit system and
to give managers the ability to manage.
We're going to do all these things if we
work together.
And the Democrats believe in the free
enterprise system. Sometimes our party
doesn't get credit for the depth of this
belief. We do believe in tough competi-
tion, which is part of the essence of our
economic system. We believe that exces-
sive government interference in business
ought to be eliminated.
A year and a half ago, we inherited a
horrible conglomeration of not only reg-
ulations but increasing regulations. In 1
day last year, we got rid of 1,100 OSHA
regulations at one sweep. And we are now
committed to writing regulations that are
necessary, simply, in plain English, and
we are giving the authors of those regula-
tions the opportunity to sign them when
they get through writing.
We believe in American cities, and we
inherited a deteriorating condition, not
only in the older cities in the North but
the newer, more vigorous cities through-
out the Sunbelt. We believe that we
ought to form a new partnership between
government at all levels, private enter-
1168
