May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
now be made more equitable for the aver-
age American taxpayer.
So, I'm in favor of a dynamic com-
munity, a growing economy, a net reduc-
tion in taxes, a simpler tax system, one
that's more fair.
Thank you, Mr. Burns.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Q. My name is George Sparks. Mr.
President, this question involves priori-
ties. When historians look back at your
term in office, what major domestic ac-
complishment do you hope will be iden-
tified with your Presidency?
The President. As I said many times
during the campaign, I would like to have
a government that's as honest and decent
and truthful and compassionate and, I
said, as filled with love as the American
people. This is a statement that was
scorned and sometimes made the butt of
jokes by people who are cynical in our
country.
I think the strength of our government
has got to be derived directly from the
people. I would like for the government
to be efficient, effective, sensitive, open,
and fair. I would like for the decisions
made on the domestic and international
scene to be derived from the combined
wisdom and idealism of the American
people.
I would like to see us, on the interna-
tional scene, project accurately the tone
and the ideals that were envisioned 200
years ago. I've made a major commitment
to let our country be identified on a world-
wide basis as the protector of basic human
rights. At the same time, in our own Na-
tion we've got to be sure that we set a
good example.
I spoke yesterday to the Los Angeles
County Bar Association, and I spelled out
then some defects in our legal systems. In
many instances, the very progress that
has been made in giving black people
the right to vote, to hold a job, to own a
home, has been obstructed by the most
prestigious members of the legal profes-
sion during those times of transition and
change. I know that lawyers are con-
cerned about their clients. But when they
organize into a bar association, the re-
sponsibility of that group is to protect the
interests not of clients, but of lawyers.
I know that doctors care very seriously
about their patients. But when you get
doctors organized into the American
Medical Association and their interest is
to protect the interests not of patients,
but of doctors. And they've been the
major obstacle to progress in our country
in having a better health care system in
years gone by.
So, I look upon myself as a spokesman
for the client and the medical patient and
the student in a classroom, the elderly
person, the mentally ill person. And I
think this sense that I am that person
would be the greatest achievement that I
could derive for myself on the domestic
scene.
I also want to be sure that the con-
flicting interests that exist in our coun-
try because of competition-and Ameri-
cans are competitive people-are resolved
to a great degree.
I would like to go out of office with
the people understanding what will be
the future possibilities in oil production,
natural gas production, coal production,
imports, exports, the use of solar power,
the constraints on nuclear power, proper
disposition of nuclear wastes, all the
varied elements of an energy question.
That's never been resolved in our coun-
try before. It's never been even addressed
by a President and the Congress. It's a
very difficult thing, because we are one
of the greatest producing nations. We
are by far the greatest consuming nation
of energy. And to resolve those building
864
