Mar. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and the United States as equal partners.
Who has changed, Brazil or you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I certainly
have not changed. The experience that
I have had in Brazil as Governor of
Georgia before I became President made
Brazil the most important country to me.
I and my wife visited it frequently. We
had a partnership arrangement between
my own State and the State of Pernam-
buco.
We studied the background, the his-
tory, the culture, and the government of
Brazil. And there has not ever been any
inclination on my part or the part of my
administration to underestimate the ex-
treme importance of Brazil as a major
world power, nor to underestimate the
extreme importance of very close and
harmonious relationships between the
United States and Brazil.
There are some differences of opinion
between ourselves and Brazil which have
been very highly publicized. But on the
long scale of things, both in the past his-
tory and in the future, the major factors
which bind us in harmony with Brazil
far transcend, are much more important
than the differences that have been pub-
lished between our approach to human
rights, for instance, and the subject of
nonproliferation of nuclear weapons.
But our commitment to Brazil as a
friend, our need for Brazil as a partner
and a friend has always been the case
and is presently very important to us and
will always be that important in the
future.
Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press
International].
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, in recent days, you've
seen the use of American military sup-
plies to invade a country and to cause
untold suffering to hundreds of thou-
sands. Some say this is the violation of
U.S. law. In view of the facts that you
have before you, is it a violation; and two,
has it caused you to reassess your war-
plane package for the Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you referring to
the Lebanon question?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, when
the terrorist attacks in Israel precipitated
the countermove by Israel into Lebanon,
which has been a haven for the Pales-
tinian terrorists, the United States took
the initiative in the United Nations—I
might say, without the approval of
Israel-to initiate United Nations action
there to expedite the removal of Israeli
forces from Lebanon.
We have obviously attempted to com-
ply with the law, and this is a matter that
we are still addressing. The other part of
your question?
Q. Has it caused you to reassess your
package of warplanes for the Middle
East, and how do you say you have at-
tempted to comply with the law?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're attempt-
ing to terminate as rapidly as possible the
military presence of Israel in southern
Lebanon through United Nations action.
I believe this is the proper way to do it,
rather than unilateral action on our part,
which would probably be unsuccessful in
any case to get Israel to withdraw. The
presence of United Nations forces, the
French, the Swedes, and others, I believe,
is the preferable way, and it marshals the
opinion of the entire world, through the
United Nations, against the Israeli
presence being retained in Lebanon.
This has not caused me to reassess the
American position on the sale of war-
planes and other equipment to the Middle
East. This is a very well balanced pack-
age. It emphasizes our interest in military
security of the Middle East. It does not
change at all the fact that Israel still re-
628
