May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
States under a Trusteeship Agreement be-
tween the United States and the Security
Council of the United Nations (61 Stat.
3301). The United States has undertaken
to promote the political development of
the Trust Territory toward self-govern-
ment or independence and to protect the
rights and fundamental freedoms of its
people.
In accordance with those obligations,
the United States and the Northern
Mariana Islands have entered into a
Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands in
Political Union with the United States
of America (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat.
263). Section 1004 (a) of the Covenant
provides that if the President finds a pro-
vision of the Constitution or laws of the
United States to be inconsistent with the
Trusteeship Agreement, the application
of that provision to the Northern Mariana
Islands may be suspended.
Certain provisions of law restrict jury
service in Federal District Courts to
United States citizens. The vast major-
ity of the inhabitants of the Northern
Mariana Islands are not citizens of the
United States and consequently may not
participate as jurors in proceedings be-
fore the United States District Court for
the Northern Mariana Islands. They may
also be deprived of the right to have their
cases heard before juries selected at ran-
dom from a fair cross-section of their
community. These results would be con-
trary to the obligations assumed by the
United States in the Trusteeship Agree-
ment.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United
States, including Section 1004 (a) of the
Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands in
Political Union with the United States
of America, do hereby find, declare and
proclaim as follows:
Any provision of the Constitution or
laws of the United States which prescribes
United States citizenship as a qualifica-
tion for service on a grand or petit jury
in the District Court for the Northern
Mariana Islands, including that provision
contained in Section 1865 (b) (1) of Title
28 of the United States Code, would be
inconsistent with the Trusteeship Agree-
ment if applied to a citizen of the Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands who is ex-
clusively domiciled, within the meaning
of Section 1005 (e) of the Covenant, in
the Northern Mariana Islands.
Therefore, the application to such indi-
vidual of any of these provisions is sus-
pended until the termination of the
Trusteeship Agreement for the Former
Japanese Mandated Islands in the
Pacific (61 Stat. 3301).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this ninth day of May,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-eight, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:39 p.m., May 9, 1978]
Commodity Futures Trading
Commission
Nomination of David G. Gartner To Be a
Commissioner. May 9, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate David G. Gartner, of
Arlington, Va., to be a Commissioner of
the Commodity Futures Trading Com-
mission for a 5-year term. He would re-
place John Rainbolt, who has resigned.
886
