Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 26
THE PRESIDENT. The prospects now
are much better than they were a month
ago. We, along with our NATO Allies,
have been pursuing what we call the mu-
tual and balanced force reductions in the
European theater for a number of years
in the talks at Vienna. And the Soviets,
this past 2 weeks-I think within the last
2 weeks-replied in a very affirmative
way. Over the weekend President Brezh-
nev made a speech, I think at Minsk,
where he said that this was a major reply
on the part of the Soviet Union. He
thought that we should assess it very care-
fully. So, I don't know what the future
results should be.
There is a difference in estimate of the
number of Soviet forces in the Warsaw
Pact region, Eastern Europe, compared
to what we think they have there. We
We
think the Soviets have a superior force
in the number of men, the number of
tanks, to us. The Soviets' estimates are
considerably lower.
We are negotiating now with the So-
viets to see where the disparity lies. And
what we want is to have a balanced re-
duction, so that at the end of this reduc-
tion the two forces will be roughly equiv-
alent to each other and that they will be
at a lower level than before. So, I would
say it's a step in the right direction, and
we will pursue it.
CRITICISM OF FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, last week in Texas,
in the course of defending Mr. Brzezin-
ski, you criticized the Soviet Union and
Cuba for attacking him, and you also crit-
icized special interest groups, which pre-
sumably are domestic
domestic organizations.
Many people think that you had refer-
ence to the Jewish community, which has
been critical of Mr. Brzezinski.
Could you explain, sir-there are two
parts to this question-who or what spe-
cial interest groups do you mean, and
what limits, if any, do you think there
ought to be on the criticism of officials
like Mr. Brzezinski involved in the mak-
ing of foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's open season
on me or officials in the Government, as
you well know, and I think that's part of
the American system, which I don't de-
plore. I didn't have any particular special
interest group in mind. I said “special in-
terest groups" and then following that
specifically referred to the Cubans, the
Soviets, and their apologists. And that is
an adequate example, I think, of special
interest groups to whom I refer.
The point is that I make the ultimate
decisions in foreign policy. There is a
minimum of disagreement between the
National Security Council and the State
Department. I do get advice from various
sources, both in and out of Government.
And obviously, in a complicated issue, I
get recommendations that sometimes are
at variance with one another. But when
I make the final decision, then I want to
be and am the one responsible. I make
the judgment and neither the Secretary
of State nor Dr. Brzezinski makes those
judgments.
I think it's easy for someone who dis-
agrees with a decision that I make to
single out Dr. Brzezinski as a target, insin-
uating that I'm either ineffective or
incompetent or ignorant, that I don't actu-
ally make the decisions, but that my sub-
ordinates make them for me. And it gives
an easy target for them without attacking
the President of the United States.
But I've noticed that President Brezh-
nev, Mr. Castro, and others always single
out Dr. Brzezinski as their target. It's not
fair to him. I think it overly exaggerates
any possible disagreement that the State
Department and the National Security
Council have, even in the formative stages
of a decision. And it takes away from the
fact that in this country I'm the Presi-
1183
