Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
measures may be retained or used for any
other purpose.
2-203. Television Cameras and Other
Monitoring. No agency within the Intelli-
gence Community shall use any electronic
or mechanical device surreptitiously and
continuously to monitor any person with-
in the United States, or any United States
person abroad, except as permitted by the
procedures established pursuant to Sec-
tion 2-201.
2-204. Physical Searches. No agency
within the Intelligence Community except
the FBI may conduct any unconsented
physical searches within the United
States. All such searches conducted by the
FBI, as well as all such searches con-
ducted by any agency within the Intelli-
gence Community outside the United
States and directed against United States
persons, shall be undertaken only as per-
mitted by procedures established pursuant
to Section 2–201.
2-205 Mail Surveillance. No agency
within the Intelligence Community shall
open mail or examine envelopes in
envelopes in
United States postal channels, except in
accordance with applicable statutes and
regulations. No agency within the Intelli-
gence Community shall open mail of a
United States person abroad except as
permitted by procedures established pur-
suant to Section 2-201.
2-206. Physical Surveillance. The FBI
may conduct physical surveillance di-
rected against United States persons or
others only in the course of a lawful in-
vestigation. Other agencies within the In-
telligence Community may not undertake
any physical surveillance directed against
a United States person unless:
(a) The surveillance is conducted out-
side the United States and the person be-
ing surveilled is reasonably believed to be
acting on behalf of a foreign power, en-
gaging in international terrorist activities,
or engaging in narcotics production or
trafficking;
(b) The surveillance is conducted solely
for the purpose of identifying a person
who is in contact with someone who is
the subject of a foreign intelligence or
counterintelligence investigation; or
(c) That person is being surveilled for
the purpose of protecting foreign intelli-
gence and counterintelligence sources and
methods from unauthorized disclosure or
is the subject of a lawful counterintelli-
gence, personnel, physical or communica-
tions security investigation.
(d) No surveillance under paragraph
(c) of this section may be conducted
within the United States unless the per-
son being surveilled is a present employee,
intelligence agency contractor or em-
ployee of such a contractor, or is a mili-
ligence element of a military service. Out-
tary person employed by a non-intel-
side the United States such surveillance
may also be conducted against a former
employee, intelligence agency contractor
or employee of a contractor or a civilian
person employed by a non-intelligence ele-
ment of an agency within the Intelligence
Community. A person who is in contact
with such a present or former employee
or contractor may also be surveilled, but
only to the extent necessary to identify that
person.
2-207. Undisclosed Participation in
Domestic Organizations. No employees
may join, or otherwise participate in, any
organization within the United States on
behalf of any agency within the Intelli-
gence Community without disclosing their
intelligence affiliation to appropriate of-
ficials of the organization, except as per-
mitted by procedures established pur-
suant to Section 2-201. Such procedures
shall provide for disclosure of such affilia-
tion in all cases unless the agency head or
207
