Apr. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
to September of 1975, by President Ford
and Secretary Kissinger. I reconfirmed
that commitment, because our Nation's
word of honor is at stake, early in my own
administration when the Saudi leaders
visited here.
This arms sales package, as such, is not
a package as far as the Congress is con-
cerned. These proposals will be submitted
to Congress individually. Each one, sepa-
rately, will be assessed by Congress in the
best interests of our own country and that
of our allies.
My own belief is that the Saudis have
made their choice of weapons and the
appurtenances or armaments on the F-15
on a basis of defense. The F-16 is more
of an offensive weapon, and the Saudis
have not ordered air-to-ground arma-
ments that would be used in an offensive
mode. They've also indicated to us that
they do not intend to station the planes at
Tabuk, which is a base close to Israel, but
will be stationing these planes near
Iraq and South Yemen as a defensive
mechanism.
Just to close, this is a proposal that, in
my opinion, is best for Israel. I think it
would be a serious mistake for us to sever
the friendly relationships and the mutual
trust and confidence that's crucial, that
presently does exist between ourselves and
the moderate Arab leaders. I think our
being the ones to sell these weapons to the
Saudis which will not be delivered
completely until 1983—is advantageous
as compared to the Saudis' completely
unrestricted ability to buy the same type
of weapons and same quantity of weap-
ons from the French or, perhaps even
later, from the Soviets. And their peace-
ful intentions are well recognized and
trusted by me.
As you know, the sale of the F-5's to
Egypt is not something that's even op-
posed by the Israelis, so far as I know. I
was with Prime Minister Begin—in this
room and over privately in the Mansion
at the White House and in my little back
office for several hours-for 2 full days
this year, and Prime Minister Begin never
mentioned to me one time any concern
that he might have about the sale of
weapons to Saudi Arabia or Egypt.
So, I think that this is a well-balanced
proposal. Each sale was made on its own
merits. I think that it is moderate in
quantity. The weapons for Saudi Arabia
and Egypt are acknowledged to be defen-
sive in nature, and I think this provides
us with the kind of relationship and in-
fluence in the moderate Arab world
which is conducive to peace for Israel.
Q. I was with Prime Minister Begin,
Mr. President, after he left you, and it is
of greatest concern to him. In fact, it is
to every Israeli leader, going back to
Rabin and Peres and all of them. It's of
tremendous concern to them, because by
the time these weapons are delivered in
1981 or '82, you may not have the present
rulers in Saudi Arabia because of the con-
ditions that are going on over there right
now. You might be delivering it to a pro-
Communist government.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't dispute what
you say about Begin's importunities or
concerns to you. But I'm telling you that
for 2 days he had my undivided atten-
tion, and he never mentioned it.
Now, the second point that you make is
that we will provide, as is the case in all
of our major arms sales, a servicing in
spare parts for these weapons over a long
contractual period. And this gives us a
great knowledge of the pilots who fly the
planes, the security measures that accrue
to prevent violation of our own secrecy,
the point of stationing of these planes,
any modification in their armaments, the
transfer of the F-15's from a basically de-
fensive plane to one of offensive nature.
This relationship that we will have
with the Saudi Arabians will help to pre-
808
