Jan. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
economy. Last year our imports of oil
reached a total of about $45 billion, com-
pared with $82 billion in 1973. The in-
creased expenditures on those imports
have been like a sudden and massive tax
imposed on the American people. Only
part of the revenues have been returned
to the United States in the form of
higher exports of American goods to oil-
producing countries. As a consequence,
that “tax” has become a major obstacle
to economic growth.
The huge deficit in foreign trade aris-
ing from our oil imports has contributed
to the fall in the value of the dollar
abroad. The dollar's decline has raised
the cost of the goods we import and con-
tributed to inflation. Our deficit also has
unsettled international monetary markets,
with adverse consequences for our inter-
national trading partners. Our response
to the energy crisis is therefore a central
element in our international and domestic
economic policy. The energy program will
not solve our problems at once, but it will
pave the way for a balanced foreign trade
position and a strong and sound dollar.
Our energy problems will worsen in the
years to come unless we curb our appetite
for oil and gas. Without decisive action,
we will put additional pressure on the
world oil market, aggravate inflationary
pressures at home, and increase our vul-
nerability to the threat of oil supply dis-
ruptions. Together, these forces could
severely limit the potential for con-
tinued economic progress over the coming
decade.
The United States has no choice but to
adjust to the new era of expensive energy.
We can only choose when and how. If we
act today, we have time to make a gradual
transition to more efficient energy use-
by conserving energy, increasing domestic
energy production, and developing alter-
native sources of energy. If we delay,
adjustment later will be harsh and pain-
ful, requiring draconian measures to ac-
complish what can now be done gradually
and with far less anguish.
The energy problem we face is enor-
mously complex. Finding an acceptable
and effective solution has not been easy
for me or for the Congress. I look forward
to working closely with the Congress early
this year to assure a speedy resolution. An
acceptable bill must satisfy the following
principles:
• First, the program must effectively
reduce our consumption of limited
energy supplies-oil and gas-while
encouraging energy production and
promoting a transition to the use of
resources that are more abundant.
• Second, the program must be fair. No
segment of the population should
bear a disproportionate share of the
cost or burden of adjustment, and no
industry should reap unnecessary
and undeserved windfall gains.
Third, the program must be con-
sistent with our overall economic
strategy. It must neither undermine
our efforts to continue the recovery
nor obstruct achievement of our
long-term budgetary goals.
Dealing with the energy problem is a
difficult test for our Nation. It is a test of
our economic and political maturity. Our
people would surely react if there were an
immediate crisis. But I am asking them to
undertake sacrifices to prevent a crisis. If
we fail to act today, we will bring a crisis
upon ourselves and our children in years
to come.
CAREFUL MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL
BUDGET EXPENDITURES
My Administration has given high pri-
ority to making more effective use of lim-
132
