Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 10
vented in effect any property in that re-
gion from even being sold with a clear
title. So, because of the best interests in
Maine being foremost in our own mind,
the Indians', and others', we did propose
a solution. I still stand by the fact that
the proposal that has been put forward
is good, sound, and fair.
FEDERAL AND STATE TAX REDUCTION
Q. Mr. President, Bill Bayer, from
Miami. The wins of Tuesday in Cali-
fornia concern you, I'm sure. What if
Congress comes back and says, "We want
a Proposition 13 here with the Federal
budget. We want to cut Internal Revenue
income tax by one-third, or half," or
whatever? And the wins-I'm sure
you've heard from Georgia and Florida
and you-name-it. What's going
happen?
to
THE PRESIDENT. I would be greatly
surprised. You know, we've put forward
a proposal to the Congress to cut income
taxes.
Q. But not that much.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we put forward
a proposal to cut income taxes by $20
billion. The Congress has not been willing
to go along with cutting income taxes at
all so far. They finally, reluctantly, agreed
to consider $13 or $14 billion. But our
proposal to cut taxes is much higher than
the Congress has shown any willingness
to accept.
Also, the inclination of Congress is not
to cut my budget figures that I proposed,
but to increase spending above what we
proposed.
So, our main concern about Congress
is not unacceptable levels of spending too
low, but too high.
Q. Don't you think they're going to get
a message from Tuesday?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope so, but
we've had one vote in the Congress al-
ready that hadn't indicated any substan-
tial decrease. And I would guess that they
will certainly get a message.
The Federal Government, as you know,
has no role to play with property taxes.
This is basically a local thing and up to
each individual State to make that deci-
sion. I would have been quite concerned,
as Governor of Georgia, had the property
taxes been cut 50 percent.
Obviously, this is a very good thing for
property owners who are economically
able to take care of their own needs. The
ones who suffer are those who don't own
property and those who are more depend-
ent upon government services and have
to send their kids to the public schools or
have to be more dependent upon other
public health services and that kind of
thing.
But I think that this is a judgment that
has been made by the California people
by a 2-to-1 margin. They've spoken very
clearly. And I certainly don't have any
criticism of what they've done.
I might add one other thing: that our
system of federalism has been set up to
benefit from this sort of action, which you
might identify as experimentation. The
States reserve to themselves all the rights
that they did not specifically grant to the
Federal Government at the time our Na-
tion was formed, plus the Federal Govern-
ment has gained additional responsibility
by Supreme Court rulings since then as
they interpreted the commerce clause and
others in the Constitution. But this leaves
the States with much more responsibility
and ability, when new circumstances
evolve, to act as test cases.
In addition to this action that the Cali-
fornia people have taken, I could point
out a couple of others. One, for instance,
was in environmental law. The first en-
vironmental laws were passed because of
local problems with excessive air or water
derogation. And the States eventually
passed laws, scattered around the Na-
1077
