Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
of the family, exemplify how the private
sector of our country, both profit and
nonprofit, can be welded together with
government.
Most of the initiative for solving a de-
teriorating neighborhood must come from
the people who live there, or who are di-
rectly concerned about the quality of life
there. The local government, the State
government can move in to help with
better police protection, garbage collec-
tion, water supplies, education. The Fed-
eral Government with its major programs,
giving their authority as much as possible
to local people, can provide the finances
and the guidance that's needed. This is
very important.
Miss Dixon pointed out the human as-
pect of inadequate planning and unbal-
anced economic growth and perhaps an
insensitive government.
We had a major achievement last year
with an increase of more than 4 million
Americans who found jobs, a net increase
over a million-the highest proportion of
Americans employed in the history of our
country. We've never seen that kind of
improvement since the Second World
War. But we still have 30, 35, 40 percent
unemployment among our young black
males.
And now, the need for us to focus at-
tention on basic civil rights, basic human
rights, in providing an escape from a
wasted life should press very heavily on
all of us. It's a devastating concept to me
that a young person, 16, 17, 18 years old,
could spend the first few years of an adult
life excluded from a fruitful part in so-
ciety, with a growing sense of personal
failure and alienation, a deepening sense
of frustration and anger. And the re-
sponsibility rests on people like us who
have been blessed with social prominence,
political, economic responsibilities, and
of blessings of a highly materialistic life.
We've not yet been successful in cor-
relating a highly expensive, sometimes
very effective education training program
with a need for the graduates to serve.
We've seen a shift from rural areas into
urban areas, from urban areas into sub-
urban areas; now a growing concern
about the deteriorating central cities, a
trend to move back toward the rural and
Sunbelt areas. But in all that process, cer-
tain people in our society, partially of
course because of deliberate or callous
discrimination-constantly suffering.
Charlotte Williams discovered and dis-
cussed the very serious question of budg-
ets, wherein priorities are set and goals
are defined. I noticed that there was a
great deal of applause when there was a
mention of any of the reporters that we
shift the financial burden to Washington
and shift responsibility away from Wash-
ington. [Laughter] And I didn't hear any
applause on the other side. But we're all
in it together. You're part of the Federal
Government, too.
But I know that the decisions made on
the delineation of those responsibilities
are made here in Washington. And I lis-
tened with great care to that recommen-
dation.
Ed Bishop, whom I've known for a long
time, talked about geography, of growth,
the need for freedom, which is one of the
most precious possessions of our society—
the right of people themselves to make a
decision where they want to live and the
inevitability of trends that we don't dis-
cern and can't control, and the inadvis-
ability of the Federal Government trying
to discipline a society based on individual
free choice.
Competition between States, competi-
tion between communities, competition
within the business and professional com-
munity is not bad. It's part of a free en-
terprise system. It's part of a democracy.
268
