May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
like 200 years-[laughter]-when I was
here nearly 2 years ago to dedicate the
hospital to Martin Luther King's memory,
I told you that we still have his dream.
We still have your dream. We still have
my dream.
I told you we must give our govern-
ment back to the people. I spoke of a new
day, of honest and compassionate and
responsible government, of an America
with a tax system that did not cheat the
average citizen and give to the rich, of a
time when there was a job for every man
and woman who wanted to work, and a
decent standard of living for those who
were not able to work.
I've tried to fulfill those dreams through
new jobs programs, through increased
funding for education-more than ever
before in the history of our country-and
through child health programs.
Last year in this Nation, we had a net
increase of 4.1 million jobs and, as you
know, we cut the unemployment rate
down 2 full percentage points in just 12
months. Well, we've made some progress.
But we knew to begin with that the road
would never be easy.
Sometimes our system moves slowly
despite the best intentions. We need to at-
tack the long-term problems that have
built up over the years—energy, inflation,
hospital costs going up too rapidly, wel-
fare reform, and unemployment.
All these things touch most cruelly the
poor and the elderly. I've sought to make
this country the kind of place that you
want it to be, a land of opportunity and
justice and hope. I have felt your pain
and I have shared your dreams and I take
my strength as President of the United
States from you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at
the Bradley Multi-Purpose Center, a part of
the Nutrition Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Ted Watkins, director and
founder of the Watts committee, California As-
semblywoman Maxine Waters, County Super-
visor Kenneth Hahn, and Lt. Gov. Mervyn M.
Dymally.
During the motorcade to the Bradley Cen-
ter, the President viewed and was briefed on
new federally funded housing projects in the
area.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 4, 1978
Held in Portland, Oregon
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, every-
body.
First of all, let me say that it's a great
pleasure to be back here in Portland. I've
come west on this trip to talk about the
most pressing issues that we've faced-
energy and environment, urban policy,
agriculture,
agriculture, jobs, inflation, criminal
justice, tax reform—and also to listen to
what westerners have to say. Our na-
tional agenda is a full one. We have a
lot to discuss and a lot to do.
FEDERAL CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
One of the things at the very top of
that list is making our Government work
better. Reform of the civil service is the
single most important step that we can
take to ensure that the Government does
what it's supposed to do-meet the needs
of the American people with a mini-
mum of waste and a maximum of effi-
ciency.
We all want a government that is
worthy of confidence and respect. That's
what civil service reform is all about.
Westerners have an extra stake in the effi-
ciency of the civil service in the Federal
Government, because the Federal Gov-
ernment plays a larger role in the life of
this region than perhaps in any other. For
example, the amount of public land in
844
