Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
slav descent have played a major role in
strengthening the bonds of friendship
and understanding between their past
and present homelands.
The two Presidents noted with satis-
faction that economic exchanges between
their two countries have developed posi-
tively, but agreed that there was poten-
tial for substantial additional interchange.
While approving the balanced nature of
trade between the two countries, they
emphasized the need for further efforts to
expand its volume, to strengthen indus-
trial cooperation, to promote travel and
tourism, to encourage joint ventures and
to improve opportunities for business rep-
resentatives to work in both countries.
The two Presidents expressed their ap-
preciation for the contribution of the
United States-Yugoslav Economic Coun-
cil to the development of economic rela-
tions and welcomed the establishment
of joint economic/commercial working
groups which will serve to facilitate in-
creased trade and economic cooperation.
The two sides confirmed their mutual
interest in the free flow of information
and people between their two societies
and endorsed both governmental and
non-governmental cultural and informa-
tion exchange programs which further
this goal. In addition the two Presidents
agreed that greater understanding by the
general public of each society's culture
and social development would be bene-
ficial. They affirmed the importance of
scientific and technological cooperation
as well as exchanges in the field of social
and physical sciences, education, culture,
and information and pledged to develop
them further.
Presidents Carter and Tito examined
major international issues. They devoted
special attention to questions of peace and
security in the world and to the promo-
tion of international cooperation. They
affirmed the necessity of extending the
policy of the reduction of tensions to all
regions of the world and all areas of in-
ternational relations and of ensuring an
opportunity for all countries to con-
tribute to the resolution of current world
problems and to the strengthening of
peace and security. They underlined in
particular that all countries should seek
to resolve disputes by peaceful means and
should deal with each other on the basis
of equality.
They also affirmed that the right of all
states to determine their own social sys-
tems without outside interference must
be respected and that relations among
states, regardless of differences or simi-
larities in their social, political, and eco-
nomic systems, must be based on the
spirit and principles of the United Na-
tions Charter.
Presidents Carter and Tito agreed that
nonalignment is a very significant factor
in world affairs. They share the view that
the nonaligned countries can and should
make an active contribution to the resolu-
tion of international problems and to the
more favorable evolution of international
relations. President Carter reaffirmed the
respect of the United States for Yugo-
slavia's commitment to nonalignment
and for the role Yugoslavia plays in that
movement.
President Tito welcomed the steps
taken by the United States Government
over the past year on a number of long-
standing issues of concern to the non-
aligned. In this connection President
Carter thanked President Tito for this
warm message of support for the treaties
which the United States has negotiated
with the Republic of Panama concerning
the future status of the Panama Canal.
President Tito reaffirmed his view that
the treaties would serve the interest of
peace and stability in the region and
throughout the world.
486
