May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's one of the
things that we'll be addressing within the
next few weeks. We have, in the past, been
putting out for sale 11, 12 billion board-
feet of lumber per year. And if there is a
decision made to increase this harvest rate
and to sustain our permanent harvest ca-
pability, then it might call for additional
forest personnel. But I think, in any in-
stance, what personnel we have working
in our national forest needs to do a better
job to enhance production of the forests
that we have. There are about, I think,
300,000 acres of national forests in Ore-
gon, Governor Straub told me, which
was over-harvested in the past, which is
now relatively nonproductive. This kind
of over-harvesting in past years needs to
be corrected. So, to improve the efficiency
of production of the acres we have is a
very important element, and it may take
more personnel. If so, I would not hesi-
tate to put them to work.
PRESIDENT'S INCOME TAXES
Q. Mr. President, have you resolved
the IRS audit of your 1975 income taxes,
and did you have to pay income taxes in
1977 and, if so, how much?
The President. Yes, I had to pay in-
come tax in 1977. I don't remember the
exact figure, but it was a substantial
amount. The 1975 audit, so far as I know,
has not yet been completed. The last time
I heard about it, the prospect was that it
would be accurate within a couple hun-
dred dollars.
NUCLEAR WASTE DISPOSAL
Q. Mr. President, Boyd Levet, KGW,
Portland. Federal officials tell us that
there will be no permanent nuclear waste
disposal program until the middle 1980's.
Nuclear plants across the Nation will have
filled their temporary storage facilities by
then. What do you propose to do in the
interim, and would you impose a storage
site on a State that decided that it did not
want to have a storage site?
THE PRESIDENT. We've had nuclear
power for peaceful purposes now for more
than 30 years. And I think you know that
in addition to that, we've had the pro-
duction of atomic materials for weapons
even earlier. There never has yet been
a workable Federal policy for disposing
of nuclear wastes on a permanent basis in
Richland, Washington, for instance,
where early supplies were produced.
I visited there often while I was in the
Navy, and the underground storage there
has sprung some leaks in recent years
that have been detected.
We are now looking into the prospect of
storing nuclear wastes in underground
caverns which are, perhaps, saltdome-type
enclosures in some parts of the central
Southwest.
We have also many commercial pro-
ducers of atomic power who store their
own spent nuclear fuel rods in various
kinds of enclosures, both on the surface of
the ground, in water tanks, and also
buried underneath the surface of the
ground.
By the end of this year, Dr. James
Schlesinger will present to me a compre-
hensive proposal for a permanent waste
disposal plan.
And to answer the last part of your
question, I would not try to store nuclear
wastes on any private lands in a State
where opposition existed. There may be
some very large military areas owned by
the Federal Government where storage
would be proper, and where there may be
some opposition in a State. But we are
trying to work that out now. One of the
places we are looking at, for instance, is in
New Mexico, and the process is including
close consultations with local and State
officials. It's a difficult problem that has
not been resolved anywhere in the world
yet.
846
