Mar. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The Prime Minister was accompanied
by Israeli Ambassador to the United
States Simcha Dinitz; Foreign Minister
Moshe Dayan; Attorney General Aharon
Barak; Legal Advisor Meir Rosenne; Di-
rector, Prime Minister's Bureau Yehiel
Kadishai; Military Secretary to the Prime
Minister Brigadier General Ephraim
Poran; Advisor to the Prime Minister
Yehuda Avner; and Director, Israeli Sup-
ply Mission, New York and Designate:
Director General for Foreign Affairs Josef
Ciechanover.
The President and Prime Minister had
a thorough discussion on the issues that
must be resolved in order to assure con-
tinuity and progress in the peace negotia-
tions. In particular, they have reviewed
the status of negotiation on the Declara-
tion of Principles for a comprehensive
peace, and they have examined the ques-
tion of the West Bank and Gaza.
The President reiterated his pledge to
the parties to support and assist in every
way the process of peace negotiations and
reaffirmed the unswerving American
commitment to the security of Israel. He
expressed the view that, despite the recent
increase in violence in the area, there re-
mains a deep conviction that renewed
progress toward peace is essential and
that the door to progress remains open.
He urged all those involved to seize this
opportunity and to make the historic deci-
sions on which peace now depends.
The President and the Prime Minister
will meet again this evening and
tomorrow.
pursuant to Section 110(f) of the Clean
Air Act, I determined on February 18,
1978, that a regional energy emergency
existed in the State of Kentucky of such
severity that a temporary suspension of
certain particulate and sulfur dioxide con-
trol regulations under the Kentucky Air
Quality Implementation Plan might be
necessary. I ordered the determination to
be in effect for not more than 30 days
unless I rescinded it before that time or
extended it. Because of continuing energy
supply problems throughout the State, I
hereby extend the regional energy emer-
gency determination for the State of Ken-
tucky for a second 30-day period. During
this extension, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency retains
full authority to disapprove temporary
suspensions of regulations in Kentucky on
a case-by-case basis and to exercise his
emergency powers authority under Sec-
tion 303 of the Clean Air Act, when and
if necessary.
I urge the Governor to continue to act
with due care if he further suspends any
air pollution regulations under the au-
thority provided by the extension of this
determination, since such regulations are
important to protect public health.
NOTE: The statement was released on
March 22.
The Presidential determination of March 21
is printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
March 24, 1978.
Energy Emergency in Kentucky Appalachian Trail Bill
Statement on Extending the Energy
Emergency Determination. March 21, 1978
Based on a petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Kentucky
Statement on Signing H.R. 8803 Into Law.
March 22, 1978
The bill I have signed into law, H.R.
8803, gives the American people and
548
