Apr. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
2. To promote and facilitate the expan-
sion of trade and economic cooperation
between the two countries, taking into
account Romania's present status as a de-
veloping country;
3. To promote the reduction of tariffs
and non-tariff barriers to trade in con-
formity with the Agreement on Trade Re-
lations between the two countries, and to
seek to increase the volume and diversify
the structure of bilateral trade.
4. To seek ways to put existing non-dis-
criminatory trade relations on a more
stable and long-term basis, in particular
through the renewal of the Agreement on
Trade Relations.
5. To encourage the development of co-
operation activities, including joint ven-
tures and cooperation in third markets,
contacts and interchanges between
American firms and Romanian economic
organizations, participation in specialized
exhibitions in both countries, increased
exchange of economic information and
data, and other measures for the imple-
mentation of the Long-Term Agreement
on Economic, Industrial and Technical
Cooperation, signed in 1976; and to sup-
port in this respect the activities of the
Joint American-Romanian Economic
Commission and of the United States-
Romanian Economic Council.
6. To cooperate in the settlement of
humanitarian issues, including family re-
unification, in the spirit of mutual under-
standing and good will.
7. To promote cultural and scientific
exchanges under the terms of the Agree-
ment on Cooperation and Exchanges in
the Cultural, Educational, Scientific and
Technological Fields of 1974, as well as
relations and contacts between institu-
tions, organizations and citizens of the two
countries, and to encourage tourism, in
order to increase mutual understanding
and friendship between the two peoples.
III. They also expressed their joint de-
termination:
1. To strengthen and make irreversible
the process of détente in Europe and
throughout the world.
2. To work for ensuring opportunities
for all countries, big or small, to contrib-
ute to the settlement of complex world
issues on the basis of equality.
3. To promote the settlement of all dis-
putes among states by peaceful means and
the elimination of the threat or use of
force.
4. To contribute actively to the full im-
plementation of all the provisions of the
Final Act of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe and to pro-
mote the multilateral process initiated by
the Conference. They agreed that the
Belgrade Meeting provided a firm basis
for continuation of this process; at the
same time, they expressed disappointment
that it had not been possible to reach
agreement on the numerous useful pro-
posals which had been put forward. They
agreed to cooperate closely so that the
1980 Madrid Meeting should take effec-
tive steps toward strengthening security
and developing cooperation in Europe in
the fields of economic cooperation, of cul-
tural exchanges and humanitarian prob-
lems, and of military disengagement and
disarmament. They also agreed that the
development of friendly and neighborly
relations among Balkan countries will be
a positive contribution to re-enforcing se-
curity and expanding cooperation in
Europe.
5. To act resolutely for the adoption of
a wide range of disarmament measures,
including nuclear disarmament, such as
halting the build-up of armaments and
reducing military budgets, armed forces
and armaments, leading ultimately to gen-
eral and complete disarmament under
effective international control. They en-
744
