Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 13
I hope that, for instance, the ratifica-
tion of the Panama Canal treaties will
open up a new era of mutual trust and
friendship and equality between our-
selves and all the people in the Latin
American countries.
I also have long had an interest in
Latin America, because my wife and I
just happen to have studied Spanish when
we were very young. Rosalynn goes to
Spanish class now 9 hours a week, and
she does a lot of reading and a lot of
studying at night. Each evening we read
Spanish together. One night she reads;
I read the next night. And so I think we
have a special feeling toward our friends
in Latin America. I believe that the peo-
ple there reciprocate; they know that we
are interested in improving relations.
And the other thing that we've tried to
do is not to treat all of the people who live
south of here as being the same. We deal
with each country individually and re-
spect their uniqueness and try to search
out ways to let them respect us and to
build up a respect for them in the minds
and hearts of American people. This ap-
plies even to Cuba, where we do have
some serious problems.
And we are very eager to see our rela-
tionships with the other nations in this
hemisphere continue to improve. My sub-
jective feeling is that they are improving.
And there's just an outpouring of friend-
ship expressed to me when I go to a coun-
try in Central and South America, or
Caribbean-the same thing applies to my
wife when she goes-quite different from
what it has been in years gone by, and I
want to continue it.
I'm extremely proud of the Latin herit-
age that's been brought to our own coun-
try. It's a benefit to American people. And
our emphases on bilingual education
comes from the heart. And I hope that
that particular heritage or background
can be preserved, because we can benefit
a great deal from the extremely stable
family configuration that exists among
Latin American people-better by far on
the average than what exists among
Anglo-American families, perhaps and
the deep feelings of religious commitment
are very admirable. The commitment to
the work ethic is admirable.
And I think it's good for our country
to have this Latin heritage become a part
of our consciousness and to be recognized.
We're trying to overcome discriminations
that have existed in the past. I've spoken
out very strongly against any police bru-
tality, for instance, against Mexican
American citizens in Texas and other
places.
We've had the same thing exist in my
part of the country against blacks, in years
gone by. The Attorney General has inter-
ceded directly in some of those cases, to
point out that there are inequities, there
are mistreatments, exhibited even among
official people. So, I look on your advice
to me as being very valuable. And I hope
when there are instances of this kind of
abuse or when there are ways that I can
move as President to make the lives of
Spanish-speaking people more pleasant
and more useful and more constructive in
our country, that you all will let me know.
And I want every agency in the Federal
Government to mirror the feelings that
I've just described. It's a very important
thing for us, for me and Rosalynn. It's a
very important thing for my whole ad-
ministration. And I'm eager to root out
any sort of remnants of discrimination or
improper separation from the rest of the
citizens of our country from the very
valuable Spanish-speaking citizens that
are so dear to us.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:07 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on May 13.
909
