Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Apr. 28
Middle East Arms Sales
Remarks by the Secretary of State on the
Administration Proposals. April 28, 1978
The administration is today transmit-
ting to Congress formal notification of
proposals to sell aircraft to Israel, Egypt,
and Saudi Arabia. As indicated in our in-
formal notification last February, the
proposed sales involve 75 F-16's and 15
F-15's to Israel, 50 F-5's to Egypt, and
60 F-15's to Saudi Arabia.
These proposals are an important part
of our search for peace in the Middle East.
They maintain and enhance our close
relationship with three key governments
in the Middle East. Each of the three
countries has a unique contribution to
make to the objective of achieving a last-
ing peace.
As a nation, we have a strong and un-
shakable commitment to the security of
Israel. The proposed sales to Israel will
help preserve Israel's ability to defend
itself.
The proposed sales to Egypt and Saudi
Arabia have been based upon careful
analysis of how best to meet their defense
needs while maintaining the military bal-
ance in the region. These transactions will
enhance the confidence in and friendship
toward the United States on the part of
each of these two countries with which
we share vital mutual interests.
The proposed sales make it possible for
the United States to maintain our historic
commitment to the security of Israel while
at the same time developing closer ties
with moderate Arab nations which
strongly support the peace process. They
reflect our best judgment as to the na-
tional interest of the United States.
In submitting these proposed sales to
Congress on the same day, the admin-
istration is not attempting to place condi-
tions on the scope of the congressional re-
view or the action by Congress. Indeed,
we understand that the Congress will want
to review these important transactions
separately and with great care. We stand
ready to facilitate that process.
At the same time, the responsibility of
the President for the conduct of foreign
affairs requires that he reserve judgment
on the ultimate action to be taken until
he has had an opportunity to review the
action taken by the Congress on the pro-
posals announced today.
NOTE: Secretary Vance spoke at 5:15 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's daily schedule and other items of
general interest as announced by the
White House Press Office during the pe-
riod covered by this issue. Events and
announcements printed elsewhere in the
issue are not included.
April 22
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to
the President for National Security
Affairs.
The President declared a major disaster
for the State of Minnesota as a result of
severe storms, ice jams, snowmelt, and
flooding, beginning about March 13,
which caused extensive public and private
property damage.
The President declared an emergency
for the State of Arkansas because of the
impact of tornadoes which struck Lonoke
County on April 17.
April 24
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
801
