Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
governments or to represent the Federal
government in suits against Federal con-
tractors and grant recipients. In 1972, the
Congress determined that the Attorney
General should be involved in suits against
State and local governments. This pro-
posal reinforces that judgment and clari-
fies the Attorney General's authority to
initiate litigation against State or local
governments engaged in a "pattern or
practice" of discrimination. This in no
way diminishes the EEOC's existing au-
thority to investigate complaints filed
against State or local governments and,
where appropriate, to refer them to the
Attorney General. The Justice Depart-
ment and the EEOC will cooperate so
that the Department sues on valid refer-
rals, as well as on its own "pattern or prac-
tice" cases.
A critical element of my proposals will
be accomplished by Executive Order
rather than by the Reorganization Plan.
This involves consolidation in the Labor
Department of the responsibility to ensure
that Federal contractors comply with
Executive Order 11246. Consolidation
will achieve the following: promote con-
sistent standards, procedures, and report-
ing requirements; remove contractors
from the jurisdiction of multiple agencies;
prevent an agency's equal employment
objectives from being outweighed by its
procurement and construction objectives;
and produce more effective law enforce-
ment through unification of planning,
training and sanctions. By 1981, after I
have had an opportunity to review the
manner in which both the EEOC and the
Labor Department are exercising their
new responsibilities, I will determine
whether further action is appropriate.
Finally, the responsibility for enforcing
grant-related equal employment provi-
sions will remain with the agencies ad-
ministering the grant programs. With the
EEOC acting as coordinator of Federal
equal employment programs, we will be
able to bring overlap and duplication to
a minimum. We will be able, for example,
to see that a university's employment
practices are not subject to duplicative in-
vestigations under both Title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972 and the
contract compliance program. Because of
the similarities between the Executive
Order program and those statutes requir-
ing Federal contractors to take affirmative
action to employ handicapped individuals
and disabled and Vietnam veterans, I
have determined that enforcement of
these statutes should remain in the Labor
Department.
Each of the changes set forth in the
Reorganization Plan accompanying this
message is necessary to accomplish one or
more of the purposes set forth in Section
901 (a) of Title 5 of the United States
Code. I have taken care to determine that
all functions abolished by the Plan are
done only under the statutory authority
provided by Section 903(b) of Title 5 of
the United States Code.
I do not anticipate that the reorganiza-
tions contained in this Plan will result
They will result in a more efficient and
in any significant change in expenditures.
manageable enforcement program.
The Plan I am submitting is moderate
and measured. It gives the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission—an
agency dedicated solely to this purpose-
the primary Federal responsibility in the
area of job discrimination, but it is de-
signed to give this agency sufficient time
to absorb its new responsibilities. This re-
organization will produce consistent
agency standards, as well as increased ac-
countability. Combined with the intense
commitment of those charged with these
responsibilities, it will become possible for
404
