Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
is one of the two States that I've declared
an energy emergency area to let energy
be burned more efficiently. I could answer
your question better after I meet Gov-
ernor Rhodes this afternoon. He will be
here, and with the 11 other Governors,
myself, Dr. Schlesinger, who heads up the
Energy Department, and others, we'll
share ideas on what we can do to mini-
mize the damage that has already oc-
curred and is rapidly building up among
those who are employed.
I know that quite often when a plant
has to lay off 10 percent of its workers or
15 percent of its workers, that the last
ones hired are generally the ones laid off
first, and quite often, because of the re-
cent arrival of civil rights laws on the
scene, the last ones hired are minority
citizens and, in some instances, women.
But we'll be discussing this around the
same table this afternoon with the 12 Gov-
ernors and myself.
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE UNITED STATES
Q. Mr. President, we know that you're
very outspoken on human rights issues
around the world. I'd like to know, really,
what is your human rights policy for the
United States-I'm thinking specifically
of the Wilmington 10 case and seeing that
that sort of thing is no longer allowed to
continue.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously we
deplore any sort of violation of human
rights or civil rights in this country. And
I think that the basic structure of our
courts, although sometimes it seems a
tedious process and the delays are exces-
sively long, justice tends to triumph ulti-
mately.
Our Justice Department, with the At-
torney General, the Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral, the Solicitor General, and others, has
been very aggressive in trying to defend
those who are the victims of the viola-
tion of civil rights.
I understand-well, the Wilmington
10 case has been entirely within the North
Carolina courts. They have now filed, I
think, a habeas corpus petition, and this
will get the case into the Federal courts.
Again, though, although I don't have any
apology to make, I think our Founding
Fathers were correct-once the case gets
in the court, other than the filing of brief
papers that the judges can assess, I don't
have any authority over the courts them-
selves. But we try to search out instances
like the Bakke case, where we didn't have
to intervene and filed a brief on behalf of
the proper administration of civil rights.
As you know, the judge in North Caro-
lina-I'm not familiar with the details
of the case has made a ruling, which
many people think is not adequate, some
think it went too far, that will let almost
all the imprisoned people be eligible for
parole this year. And in the meantime,
though, the Federal courts are just now
taking under advisement their habeas
corpus petition.
MINORITY OWNERSHIP IN BROADCASTING
Q. Mr. President, secretary of National
Association of Black-Owned Broadcasters,
and I have several other members of the
board sitting here with me from Savan-
nah, all the way to New York City. We
would like to thank you and your staff
for your efforts in supporting minority
ownership in broadcasting in the United
States. However, we have a major prob-
lem confronting us in not having the
enabling legislation to make the proper
funds available so that we can procure
these facilities and would like to know
what your plans are so far as MESBIC
[Minority Enterprise Small Business In-
vestment Companies] and SBA loans are
concerned.
323
