Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 23
advice and consent of the Senate, who
shall be compensated as now or hereafter
provided for level IV of the Executive
Schedule.
(b) There are hereby transferred to
the Special Counsel all functions with re-
spect to investigations relating to viola-
tions of 5 U.S.C. Chapter 15; 5 U.S.C.
Subchapter III of Chapter 73 (Political
Activities); and 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (4) (F)
(public information).
(c) The Special Counsel may investi-
gate, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1303, allega-
tions of personnel practices which are
prohibited by law or regulation.
(d) When in the judgment of the Spe-
cial Counsel, such personnel practices
exist, he shall report his findings and rec-
ommendations to the Chairman of the
Merit Systems Protection Board, the
agency affected, and to the Office of Per-
sonnel Management, and may report such
findings to the President.
(e) When in the judgment of the Spe-
cial Counsel, the results of an investigation
would warrant the taking of discipli-
nary action against an employee who
is within the jurisdiction of the Board,
the Special Counsel shall prepare charges
against such employee and present them
with supporting documentation to the
Board. Evidence supporting the need for
disciplinary action against a Presidential
appointee shall be submitted by the Spe-
cial Counsel to the President.
(f) The Special Counsel may appoint
personnel necessary to assist in the per-
formance of his functions.
(g) The Special Counsel shall have the
authority to prescribe rules and regula-
tions relating to the receipt and investiga-
tion of matters under his jurisdiction.
Such regulations shall be published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
(h) The Special Counsel shall not is-
sue advisory opinions.
PART III. FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS
AUTHORITY
SECTION 301. Establishment of the Fed-
eral Labor Relations Authority.
(a) There is hereby established, as an
independent establishment in the Execu-
tive Branch, the Federal Labor Relations
Authority (the "Authority"). The Au-
thority shall be composed of three mem-
bers, one of whom shall be Chairman, not
more than two of whom may be adherents
of the same political party, and none of
whom may hold another office or posi-
tion in the Government of the United
States except where provided by law or
by the President.
(b) Members of the Authority shall be
appointed by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate. The
President shall designate one member to
serve as Chairman of the Authority, who
shall be compensated at the rate now or
hereafter provided for level III of the
Executive Schedule. The other members
shall be compensated at the rate now or
hereafter provided for level IV of the Ex-
ecutive Schedule.
(c) The initial members of the Author-
ity shall be appointed as follows: one
member for a term of two years; one
member for a term of three years; and
the Chairman for a term of four years.
Thereafter, each member shall be ap-
pointed for a term of four years. An in-
dividual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be
appointed for the unexpired term of the
member replaced.
(d) The Authority shall make an an-
nual report on its activities to the Pres-
ident for transmittal to Congress.
SECTION 302. Establishment of the Gen-
eral Counsel of the Authority. There shall
be a General Counsel of the Authority,
who shall be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate for a term of four years, and who
957
