Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
And the whole Nation can thank Clai- Bangor, Maine
borne Pell.
I don't want to brag on him too much,
but I would like to say just one more
thing.
I became President probably because
of the election or campaign reforms that
were initiated by Claiborne Pell, to try to
prevent in the Presidential elections the
outcome of the contest being determined
by who had the richest friends. And with
a limit on contributions and the broaden-
ing of support among millions of people
and not just a few thousand people, the
democratic process was enhanced. And I
think this is very good. And I thank him
personally for helping make me the Pres-
ident of the United States.
Well, he's a gentle man and a kind of
a quiet man. But he's experienced and he's
strong and he has courage and he has a
lot of foresight. And it's just a pleasure to
work harmoniously with people like Clai-
borne Pell.
I think that you all know that this elec-
tion year is going to be very difficult.
The Democratic Party and what it
stands for is what I believe in. It epito-
mizes what our country is, and it shows us
in the future what our country can be.
And I know that Congressman St Ger-
main, Congressman Beard, and others will
be out this year seeking reelection, and as
a Democrat, I hope that you will help us
all even to strengthen the principles of
our party as they are exhibited both here
in Rhode Island and also in Washington.
I want to again thank Ed Garrahy for
his tremendous demonstration—Joe Gar-
rahy for this tremendous demonstration
of leadership in this State.
I think I will come out to the crowd.
Thank you again, everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:15 p.m. at
the Cranston Hilton Hotel.
Remarks at a Reception Following a
Fundraising Dinner for Senator William D.
Hathaway. February 17, 1978
It's a great pleasure to be here with all
of you who formed close friendships
with members of my family. One man
came through the line and said he had
been with my wife when she campaigned
in the northern part of Maine in Aroo-
stook County, along the Saint John River,
and said that he had had my Aunt Cissy
to spend the night in his home with him
and his wife, and had a chance to pray
with my sister Ruth, and he was looking
forward to drinking a beer with Billy.
[Laughter] But I was really the bottom
one on his list. [Laughter] He was also
glad to shake hands with the President.
I'm glad to come back to the State
that's got the most interesting Demo-
cratic Presidential primary law in the
world. It kept Maine in the forefront
of my mind for at least a month-
[laughter] while two delegates came
forward, you know, every 2 or 3 days.
Also, I've noticed that the Indian treaty
question is not as unpopular with country
club members as I had thought it was.
[Laughter] At least you haven't changed
the name of the country club. [Laughter]
This is a State where difficult issues are
addressed with courage and conviction.
I'm going to talk primarily about a close
friend of mine who introduced me. But I
would like to say this about two former
Governors of yours perhaps one of the
closest friends I have in the world, a man
who epitomizes what I think a public
servant should be and one who's done a
tremendous job for the Democratic Na-
tional Committee the last year, Ken
Curtis. For a few months I spent almost
as many nights with him and Polly and
341
