Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 17
upon. But he made it clear to me at the
time that although he was honored by the
invitation, that he had duties to perform
in Florida. So, I have not discussed with
him any specific thing. I don't know what
opportunities would present themselves if
and when he decided he might move. But
he loves Florida, and he's dedicated to be
a full-time Governor. And we've not dis-
cussed it since I offered him the Cabinet
post, if he would take it.
But you can tell from my comments
how much I think of him.
PUBLIC OPINION POLLS
Q. Mr. President, Curtis Sitomer,
Christian Science Monitor, in Boston.
The Gallup Poll today shows a 51
per-
cent approval rating for you among the
public. This is a slight increase, but is
only about half of the electorate. Going
into a midterm year, what will you do to
improve your status with the American
public and help your party in its congres-
sional and local and State elections?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, I was
pleased to see the trend going up. [Laugh-
ter] It's quite a pleasant change. My own
personal popularity is still quite high,
around 70 percent or better. The measure-
ment that Gallup and Harris and them
use, of course, is how the American peo-
ple assess my performance as President.
And this has varying factors that go into
the public's opinion.
One is how well the Congress and I can
cooperate on very difficult questions, like
energy legislation or tax reform or Gov-
ernment reorganization or the Panama
Canal treaties. It also measures the effec-
tiveness of my administration as it relates
to dealings with the Soviet Union on
SALT and the comprehensive test ban, on
dealing with the problem in the Middle
East, on trying to retain a semblance of
peace around the world.
Of course, a lot of it is determined by
just visceral human reactions to my own
personal activities and statements. So, I
would guess that the measurement of my
effectiveness as President by the public
opinion polls would primarily be deter-
mined by whether or not I'm successful
in bringing to a conclusion many of those
problems that I outlined to you at the
first of this meeting.
If we got a solution in the coal strike,
that would be helpful for my personal
opinion polls, although there's very little
that I can do to require a coal strike res-
olution. And the Panama Canal treaty
vote will have an impact, the energy pack-
age being passed would have an impact.
We undertook a lot of very difficult and
controversial subjects, tasks, when I be-
came President. We have not yet had
time to be successful in many of them, and
I think that is the major factor.
All of us work hard, and we do the
best we can. We make mistakes. But I
think the public's been very gracious
in their analysis of my administration.
And I'm pleased with that upturn that
came at a very good moment.
I told the Democratic fundraising
group last night—a banquet that raised
about a million dollars, the best one we've
ever had that some days I had a very
hard time, and that one night, after hav-
ing two or three Senators announce they
were not going to vote for the Panama
Canal, I went home, and I thought I
would at least have to relax by getting in
a warm tub bath. And my Ivory soap
sank. [Laughter]
So, some days are good and some days
are bad. The Gallup Poll has helped a lit-
tle bit this morning.
TAXATION AT LOCAL LEVELS
Q. Jim Houck, San Francisco Exami-
ner. The major political issue in Califor-
nia right now is a ballot initiative which
would dramatically reduce the amount of
revenue through the property tax avail-
523
