Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
other Communist countries, as we can dependable, verifiable arms control agree-
observe today in Africa.
ments wherever possible.
This increase in Soviet military power
has been going on for a long time. Dis-
counting inflation, since 1960 Soviet mili-
tary spending has doubled, rising steadily
in real terms by 3 or 4 percent a year,
while our own military budget is actually
lower now than it was in 1960.
The Soviets, who traditionally were not
a significant naval power, now rank num-
ber two in world naval forces.
In its balanced strategic nuclear ca-
pability, the United States retains impor-
tant advantages. But over the past decade,
the steady Soviet buildup has achieved
functional equivalence in strategic forces
with the United States.
These changes demand that we main-
tain adequate responses-diplomatic,
-diplomatic,
military, and economic-and we will.
As President and as Commander in
Chief, I am responsible, along with the
Congress, for modernizing, expanding,
and improving our Armed Forces when-
ever our security requires it. We've re-
cently completed a major reassessment of
our national defense strategy. And out of
this process have come some overall prin-
ciples designed to preserve our national
security during the years ahead.
We will match, together with our allies
and friends, any threatening power
through a combination of military forces,
political efforts, and economic programs.
We will not allow any other nation to
gain military superiority over us.
We shall seek the cooperation of the
Soviet Union and other nations in reduc-
ing areas of tension. We do not desire to
intervene militarily in the internal domes-
tic affairs of other countries, nor to ag-
gravate regional conflicts. And we shall
oppose intervention by others.
While assuring our own military ca-
pabilities, we shall seek security through
We shall use our great economic, tech-
nological, and diplomatic advantages to
defend our interests and to promote
American values. We are prepared, for
instance, to cooperate with the Soviet
Union toward common social, scientific,
and economic goals. But if they fail to
demonstrate restraint in missile programs
and other force levels or in the projection
of Soviet or proxy forces into other lands
and continents, then popular support in
the United States for such cooperation
with the Soviets will certainly erode.
These principles mean that, even as we
search for agreement in arms control, we
will continue to modernize our strategic
systems and to revitalize our conventional
forces. And I have no doubt that the Con-
gress shares my commitment in this re-
spect.
We shall implement this policy that
I've outlined so briefly in three different
ways: by maintaining strategic nuclear
balance; by working closely with our
NATO allies to strengthen and modern-
ize our defenses in Europe; and by main-
taining and developing forces to counter
any threats to our allies and friends in
our vital interests in Asia, the Middle
East, and other regions of the world.
Let me take up each of these three in
turn.
Our first and most fundamental con-
cern is to prevent nuclear war. The hor-
rors of nuclear conflict and our desire
to reduce the world's arsenals of fearsome
nuclear weapons do not free us from
the need to analyze the situation objec-
tively and to make sensible choices about
our purposes and means.
Our strategic forces must be-and
must be known to be-a match for the
capabilities of the Soviets. They will never
be able to use their nuclear forces to
532
