Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
mand for energy into balance with our
continuing supply. Nor are there any at-
tractive shortcuts. Our progress will be
slow and sometimes hard to measure. But
we must save oil. We must encourage en-
ergy production in our own country, and
we must shift to more plentiful supplies
of energy.
One immediate step that we can take
is to lessen our dependence on foreign oil
by conserving energy now. Some people
have argued that conservation, the elim-
ination of waste, will slow down our eco-
nomic growth and cost jobs. But this is
the opposite of the truth. Not only does
energy conservation create jobs in the
building industry and elsewhere, but con-
servation also means saving money by the
efficient use of energy. It means the re-
turn to self-reliance in energy matters.
Simply stated: Conservation means thrift.
And since when does thrift mean stag-
nation? Any New Englander knows the
answer. We must have a good, sound,
comprehensive national energy policy.
You know the answer to that.
And now I'm ready to take your ques-
tions on other issues.
QUESTIONS
REGULATION OF BUSINESS
Q. My name is Bob Sherlock, and I live
at 49 Bradbury Street in Old Town.
Mr. President, Americans have long
Americans have long
looked to government to constrain private
decisionmaking for the good of society. Do
you think the Federal Government should
play a role in constraining U.S.-based
multinational corporations from following
investment, production, and marketing
policies which weaken and destabilize the
American economy?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. There are
several ways that this is being done now,
as you know. One is the antitrust laws
which try to enhance competition in our
country and preserve the finest aspects of
the free enterprise system.
Another one is to cut down on unnec-
essary regulation. One of the great im-
provements that we've made in the last
12 months has been in the deregulation of
the airline industry. And now, as you
know, because of the changes that we have
made, there's much more competition in
overseas flights. You can now fly to Eng-
land and back for, I
land and back for, I guess, half what you
could a year ago. The Senate is now get-
ting ready to start voting on a bill to de-
regulate the domestic air routes. And we
hope to eliminate unnecessary regulation,
also.
I mentioned earlier today, in a press
conference in Rhode Island, some of the
tax provisions that I think would accom-
modate what you've just described. The
elimination of overseas deferrals, which
means that major corporations who invest
overseas and therefore start employing
foreigners to work in their factories pay a
lower tax bill on a given amount of prof-
its overseas than they would pay if they
made those same profits in our
country.
We've got what they call a DISC op-
eration, which encourages overseas invest-
ments and sales, where a big corpora-
tion-and almost all these credits go to
big corporations-can set up a dummy
corporation and export American prod-
ucts, and they only pay taxes on half their
profits. But when they don't pay their
profits in taxes at a fair rate, you know
who has to pay the taxes for them—just
the average working people of our
country.
Another thing that I've tried to do is to
eliminate some of the special loopholes
that have been enjoyed by very wealthy
people and influential people. One is what
has been inaccurately called a three-mar-
tini lunch. Now, if a working man or wom-
346
