Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 9
1978 and increased the storage payment
for the farmer-owner grain reserve pro-
gram. He urged farmers to make maxi-
mum use of those two farm programs.
Approval of both program actions was
recommended to the President by Agri-
culture Secretary Bob Bergland.
"Farmers have the tools at hand to
raise grain prices," the President said. "By
participating in the set-aside programs,
they help cut the oversupplies that are
currently holding down prices. By putting
their grain in the reserve program, they
will remove excess supplies from the mar-
ket until farm prices rise. I urge farmers
to take full advantage of these opportuni-
ties to improve prices."
The President said that storage pay-
ments for grains held in the farmer-
owned reserve program would be in-
creased from 20 cents to 25 cents per
bushel per year for the major grains.
Farmers now storing grain in the reserve
will be offered new contracts to reflect
the 25-cent rate.
"We hope that this higher storage pay-
ment will encourage greater use of the
farmer-controlled reserve program," the
President said. "Our goal is to have 30 to
35 million tons of food and feed grain in
reserve prior to the beginning of the 1978
crop year.
"If our farmers use this program, it will
have a positive impact on prices, which
are now too low, and will, at the same
time, assure foreign buyers that we will
be a reliable supplier of grain.”
The President also said that Secretary
Bergland has under consideration other
actions that could be taken to improve
farm prices and income.
Signup for the 1978 set-aside programs
will begin March 1 and will be conducted
through May 1 in the Department of Ag-
riculture's Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service (ASCS) county
offices.
International Atomic Energy
Agency
Message to the Senate Transmitting an
Agreement on Nuclear Safeguards.
February 9, 1978
To the Senate of the United States:
I submit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Agree-
ment between the United States of Amer-
ica and the International Atomic Energy
Agency ("Agency") for the Application
of Safeguards in the United States of
America, with attached Protocol, ap-
proved by the Board of Governors of the
Agency on September 17, 1976. This
Agreement provides for application of
Agency safeguards to nuclear facilities in
the United States, other than those hav-
ing direct national security significance.
The Agreement will enter into force when
the United States notifies the Agency
that its constitutional and statutory re-
quirements for entry into force have been
met.
The United States, as a nuclear weap-
ons state party to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
("NPT"), is not obligated to accept
Agency safeguards on its peaceful nu-
clear activities. On December 2, 1967,
President Johnson offered to place United
States nuclear facilities, except those with
direct national security significance, un-
der Agency safeguards in an effort to
demonstrate that the application of those
safeguards would not work to any na-
tion's commercial disadvantage. Specifi-
cally, President Johnson stated:
1
293
