Mar. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
The time required has been much
greater than we had anticipated, but my
guess is that the negotiators will resolve
most of these issues in Geneva. And they
will probably require a direct meeting or
communication between myself and
President Brezhnev before we can reach a
final agreement. But I don't anticipate
any threats from the Soviet Union
through Cuba as a result of success or fail-
ure.
SELECTION OF FEDERAL ATTORNEYS AND
JUDGES
Q. During your campaign, one point
that you emphasized was to restore peo-
ple's faith in government.
Representative Philip Crane has in-
troduced a House resolution to set into
motion an impartial House investigation
of the Marston matter. Would you favor
such a resolution so that people's faith can
be restored?
THE PRESIDENT. Well-[laughter]
it's difficult for me to comment objective-
ly on Congressman Crane and all the-
Q. The resolution.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Well, at
this point, the Senate is conducting an as-
sessment of the appointment of Deputy
Attorney General Civiletti. And in that
process, the Republican members of the
Senate Judiciary Committee are going
into the Marston matter. There's nothing
about the Marston matter at all that
causes me any regret, except the ex-
traordinary publicity that's been brought
to it. I don't see, in retrospect, after care-
ful examination of the issue, that any
thing improper was done.
There's never been an instance since
I've been in office when an appointment
was made to a U.S. attorney position or
district judge or circuit judge other than
strictly on the basis of merit. That was my
commitment to the American people, and
I have not violated it.
of
We've not yet made an appointment to
replace Mr. Marston. Historically in this
country, the Senate has been deeply in-
volved in the decision about who would
be Federal judges and U.S. attorneys.
When I came into office, after 8 years
Republican administration, there had not
been a single Democrat appointed to a
U.S. attorney's position in 8 years. Only
four U.S. attorneys were left over from
previous Democratic administrations.
They were in very strongly controlled
States where the Democratic Senators
were quite influential with the Nixon
administration.
We have done it quite differently.
We've established assessment commis-
sions to give me recommendations for
U.S. judges on a circuit basis. We've
asked the Senators to set up similar merit
selection commissions on a State basis for
district judges-18, I think, have done
theirs already-and in every instance,
we've consulted with the highly qualified
lawyers and others in the area, judges, to
choose U.S. attorneys.
So, I would not hesitate to recommend
any presentation of the facts about the
Marston case.
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN MILLER
Q. Mr. President, former Presidential
economic adviser Paul McCracken, who
is now on the lecture circuit, has claimed
that your administration has no clearcut
policy for fighting inflation. Do you feel
this is a fair statement? And, also, what
confidences do you place in newly ap-
pointed head of the Fed, G. William
Miller, with regards to fighting inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. I have complete con-
fidence in G. William Miller, who is a
fine man. He's completely knowledgeable
about international trade. He's a superb
businessman. He's highly committed to
improving our economy, to giving equal-
ity of opportunity in areas where people
460
