Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 20
Economic Report of the President
Annual Message to the Congress.
January 20, 1978
To the Congress of the United States:
I will be working closely with the Con-
gress in 1978 to enact a program
ad-
dressed to the immediate and the long-
term needs of our economy. I am
proposing tax reductions and reforms to
continue our strong economic recovery,
to encourage increased investment by
American businesses, and to create a
simpler and fairer tax system. I am seek-
ing legislation to address the special prob-
lems of the disadvantaged and the unem-
ployed. And I am taking new steps to
combat inflation.
This report to the Congress on the con-
dition of the economy sets forth the over-
all framework within which my economic
proposals were formulated. It outlines,
for you and for the Nation, my economic
priorities for the years ahead and my
strategies for achieving them.
I have begun from the premise that our
economy is basically healthy, but that
well-chosen Government policies will as-
sure continued progress toward our eco-
nomic goals.
Last year more than four million new
jobs were created in our country—an all-
time record and unemployment was re-
duced by more than one million persons.
Output rose by almost 6 percent, and the
benefits of this large increase were widely
shared. The after-tax income of con-
sumers, adjusted for inflation, rose sub-
stantially during 1977. Wages of the typ-
ical American worker increased by more
than the rise of prices, and business profits
also advanced.
The American economy is completing
three years of recovery from the severe
recession of 1974-75. Recovery in most
other nations has lagged far behind our
own. In the economies of our six major
trading partners, seven million persons
were unemployed at year's end--more
than at the depths of the 1974-75 reces-
sion. Our inflation rate is also lower than
in most other nations around the world.
We have a great many accomplishments.
But much progress remains to be made,
and there are problems to be dealt with
along the way.
The recession of 1974-75 was the worst
in 40 years, and the substantial increase
in output over the past three years still
leaves the economy operating below its
productive potential. We cannot be con-
tent when almost 62 million people ac-
tively seeking jobs cannot find work, when
314 million workers take part-time jobs
because they cannot find full-time em-
ployment, and when one million people
have stopped looking for a job because
they have lost hope of finding one. We
cannot be content when a substantial por-
tion of our industrial plant stands idle, as
it does today.
We cannot be satisfied with an eco-
nomic recovery that bypasses significant
segments of the American people. Unem-
ployment among minorities is more than
twice as high as that among whites-and
unemployment among minority teenagers
is tragically high. Women have fewer sat-
isfying job opportunities than men, and
older Americans often find their access to
the job market blocked. Farm incomes
have dropped precipitously.
We must also address other problems
if we are to assure full restoration of pros-
perity. Inflation is a serious economic con-
cern for all Americans. The inflation rate
is too high and must be brought down.
Moreover, a residue of unease and cau-
tion about the future still pervades the
thinking of some of our people. Businesses
are still hesitant in their long-term invest-
ment planning, and the stock market re-
129
