June 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
here, a belief in our Nation, an element
of patriotism, a willingness to work with
your own government and dedicated em-
ployees who, when given an opportunity
to do a job, do a good job. And you
have
demonstrated this in many ways, and
that's really the reason that you've been
able to work with such a good partnership
with Jack Brooks, your Congressman.
As this building suggests, your relation-
ship with the Federal Government is clear
and it's constant. Since this building was
first erected, I believe 44 years ago, the
expansion of Federal services in this area.
has required an expansion and a modern-
ization of the building itself. In addition
to Congressman Brooks' office, it now
houses representatives from 10 different
major Federal agencies.
I hope that bringing them together un-
der one roof will symbolize the coordi-
nated approach and the better manage-
ment that we are taking to delivery of
Federal services. And I know that the
name that we are placing over the door
today will represent the commitment to
lean, competent, efficient government
that Jack Brooks has fought for through-
out his career.
The General Accounting Office, not
given to compliments-much more in-
clined toward criticism-has said that
this one man has been responsible for sav-
ing for the Federal Government billions of
dollars-not millions, but billions of dol-
lars and I want to thank Jack Brooks, as
President.
I'm sure that you are thankful to have
Jack in Washington, but you're no more
thankful than I am to have him there.
When I was first elected President,
with your help, one of the things I prom-
ised was to reorganize the bureaucracy,
to bring some order out of chaos, to in-
stitute reforms that would make the de-
livery of services to you, with your tax
money, more efficient.
I was told by many people that there
was one man in the Congress with whom
I would have to work closely, because he
would be the key to improving those Fed-
eral Government organizations. It was
Jack Brooks. And I asked Jack Brooks to
come down to Plains to talk to me about
it. He came down—he was the only Con-
gressman who came in that group-to tell
me what he thought ought to be done. I
told him what I thought ought to be
done. We were mostly in agreement, but
I have to confess to you that there were
some differences. I knew that I was going
to be the new President of the United
States, and I was sure that in a showdown
with just one Congressman, that the
President could win the argument.
I hear many of you laughing, because
you know already that I'm going to tell
you that I was mistaken. [Laughter] But
I have to say that the changes that Jack
Brooks recommended in the reorganiza-
tion bill that did pass under his leader-
ship were good. I'll just give you one ex-
ample, if you're interested. When I sub-
mit a reorganization plan to the Congress,
it automatically goes into effect after a
certain period of time, unless the Con-
gress rejects it. Jack Brooks said that in
the past about two-thirds of reorganiza-
tion plans submitted were rejected be-
cause they couldn't be changed. And if
there was a tiny error in the proposal af-
ter the Congress investigated it, there was
no way to correct that error, and the
whole thing had to be thrown out.
So, he suggested that after it goes to his
committee, that if there are modifica-
tions, and if I agreed, that they can be
made in the committee, and then the
Congress can vote to accept or reject.
I'll knock on wood, but so far all the
plans that we have submitted have been
accepted by the Congress, because of the
wisdom of Jack Brooks, to begin with,
and because of his leadership qualities af-
1174
