May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
President Ford's portrait will be on this
floor, and the former First Lady's portrait
will be on the ground floor of the White
House, where it will be viewed by thou-
sands of people every day who will be re-
minded, as they look at these two beau-
tiful portraits, of the wonderful service
performed by President Jerry Ford and
his wife, Betty.
You're welcome back to the White
House, Jerry and Betty, and as personal
friends of yours and also as the President
of our country now, I want to express my
friendship towards you and my deep ap-
preciation for what you have meant to
our country and what you still mean to
the people of the United States.
NASH CASTRO. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, President Ford, Mrs. Ford, dis-
tinguished guests, all:
History is a succession of random
events, and 17 years is a short time as his-
tory goes. But its passing is a proper and
convenient point at which to recall a note-
worthy event in the history of this great
house.
The White House Historical Associa-
tion is now in its 17th year. It is unique
in being the first nonprofit organization
devoted exclusively to White House pur-
poses. The association was founded out
of a need to give impetus to the then new
and exciting White House restoration pro-
gram. Every First Lady since its founding
has supported it enthusiastically. This,
above everything, explains why it has
thrived through the years and thrives to-
day.
President Kennedy, who lived here
when the association first formed, was
told that such an organization could have
legal standing only if the White House
were declared a national monument. It
came as a little surprise to us who knew
that President to learn that he absolutely
refused to live in a monument. [Laughter]
The wise and scholarly Clark Clifford,
who has probably unscrambled more
problems for more Chief Executives than
any man alive, tactfully suggested legisla-
tion that satisfied both the law and the
sitting President. Our association could
thus be incorporated.
One of our aims is to enhance under-
standing, appreciation, and enjoyment of
the White House. Another is to assist the
White House in its continuing quest to
acquire objects with a linkage to its glori-
ous past. This the association does in con-
cert with the White House staff, the
White House family, and the Committee
for the Preservation of the White House.
The source of the association's income
is its four books, of which more than 5
million copies have been sold since the in-
ception of sales on July 4, 1962.
The portraits of President Ford and
Mrs. Ford, which we are presenting today
for addition to the permanent White
House collection, were commissioned out
of grants made by the association. They
join the portraits of Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, Mrs. Roosevelt, Mrs. Truman,
President and Mrs. Kennedy, and Presi-
dent and Mrs. Johnson, which have also
been provided by the association.
Portraits of Presidents and First Ladies
are important parts of White House con-
tinuity. They are tangible treasures of
time and art describing our ongoing
course of history. And so, Mr. President
and Mrs. Carter, the White House His-
torical Association feels very privileged in-
deed to serve this historic house.
On behalf of our board of directors, I
am enormously pleased to present to you
and the Nation the official portraits of our
38th President and his lovely First Lady,
President Ford and Mrs. Ford.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. Castro, and to
members of the White House Historical
Association, let me express my apprecia-
tion to you for these beautiful gifts and
my appreciation for your willingness to
964
