Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 15
V. Shankar, Principal Secretary to
the Prime Minister
J. S. Mehta, Foreign Secretary, Ex-
ternal Affairs Ministry
and others
The American participants were:
Jimmy Carter, President of the
United States of America
Walter Mondale, Vice President of
the United States of America
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs
Warren Christopher, Acting Secre-
tary of State of the United States
of America
David Aaron, Deputy Assistant to
the President for National Secu-
rity Affairs
Robert Goheen, Ambassador of the
USA to the Republic of India
and others
President Carter and Prime Minister
Desai held extensive and useful talks in a
spirit of mutual confidence, candor and
friendship. They agreed that there has
been a significant improvement in bilat-
eral relations over the past year, marked
by a comprehensive exchange of corre-
spondence between them and President
Carter's visit to India in January 1978.
This should be continued and deepened,
building upon the common principles
enunciated in their Joint Declaration
signed in New Delhi in January 1978.ยน
They also had a broad exchange of views
on major international issues of common
concern and reviewed the current situa-
tion in South Asia. The views of the two
effective measures to halt the arms race,
particularly in the nuclear field, includ-
ing the prevention of the proliferation of
nuclear weapons and their ultimate
elimination. The Prime Minister wel-
comed the progress being made in CTB
and SALT negotiations, as described by
the President. They called for a stronger
and more effective role for the United
Nations in the field of disarmament, and
emphasized their active support for the
Special Session on Disarmament of the
United Nations General Assembly.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed on the urgent need to find a com-
prehensive, just and lasting solution to
the problems of the Middle East. It
should be based on Israel's withdrawal
from territories occupied as a result of
the 1967 war, respect for the legitimate
rights of the Palestinian people, and steps
to ensure the independence, territorial in-
tegrity and security of all states of the
region.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed developments in Africa and
agreed that peace, racial equality, stabil-
ity, and economic development with par-
ticular attention to the needs of the in-
dividual, were essential elements of their
policies toward the continent. They
agreed that African problems should be
solved without outside intervention which
can aggravate regional conflicts and in-
hibit their resolution.
The President and the Prime Minister
agreed that the Ethiopia-Somalia con-
flict should be resolved by peaceful
means, respecting the legitimate aspira-
sides reflected wide areas of agreement tions of the peoples of the region within
on the issues discussed.
Prime Minister Desai and President
Carter devoted special attention to ques-
tions of world peace. They agreed that
world peace can only be assured through
1 The text of the declaration is printed on
page 17 of this volume.
the framework of territorial integrity and
in conformity with the principles of the
Charters of the United Nations and the
Organization of African Unity.
The President and the Prime Minister
expressed support for the legitimate aspir-
ations of the African peoples to self-de-
termination and majority rule and they
1107
