May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Twenty-nine years ago, at an uncertain
time for world peace, President Truman
spoke these words on signing the North
Atlantic Treaty, and I quote from him:
"In this pact, we hope to create a shield
against aggression . . . a bulwark which
will permit us to get on with the real busi-
ness of government and society, the busi-
ness of achieving a fuller and a happier
life for all our citizens."
The alliance born that day in April
1949 has helped preserve our mutual se-
curity for nearly 30 years, almost a decade
longer than the time between the two
great wars of this century. History re-
cords no other alliance that has success-
fully brought together so many different
nations for so long without the firing of
a single shot in anger.
Ours is a defensive alliance. No nation
need fear aggression from us, but neither
should any nation ever doubt our will to
deter and to defeat aggression against us.
The North Atlantic Alliance is a union of
peoples moved by a desire to secure a safe
future for our children in liberty and free-
dom. Our Alliance is unique, because each
of us 15 democratic nations shares a com-
mon heritage of human values, the rule of
law, and faith in the courage and spirit of
free men and women.
The military strength and the common
political purpose of the North Atlantic
Alliance has led us to cooperate in a thou-
sand individual efforts, rightly conferring
upon us the name of "community.” And
it has given us the self-confidence and
strength of will to seek improved relations
with our potential adversaries.
As an American I am proud that the
commitment of the United States to the
security, independence, and prosperity of
Europe is as strong as ever. We are part
of you, and you are part of us. The mu-
tual pledges of trust we exchanged here in
1949 still hold firm and true.
During the next 2 days we will re-
affirm our commitment to the Alliance,
to its strategy and doctrine, and to each
other. We will review a year-long effort
to assess East-West relations as they exist
now and as they may develop in the fu-
ture. We will review our cooperation in
defense procurement. And through a
broad program of defense cooperation, we
will seek to reinforce our individual
efforts to guarantee our security against
aggression for many years ahead.
We must be aware of the new chal-
lenges that we face individually and col-
lectively, which require new efforts of us
all.
The Soviet Union and other Warsaw
Pact countries pose a military threat to
our Alliance which far exceeds their legiti-
mate security needs. For more than a dec-
ade the military power of the Soviet Un-
ion has steadily expanded, and it has
grown consistently more sophisticated. In
significant areas the military lead we once
enjoyed has been reduced.
Today we can meet that military chal-
lenge, but we cannot be sure of countering
the future military threat unless our Alli-
ance modernizes its forces and adds addi-
tional military power. In this effort the
United States will play its part across the
spectrum of conventional, theater nu-
clear, and strategic nuclear forces. I'm
gratified that America's allies are joining
with us in building up their military
might.
In the past year the United States has
increased substantially its conventional
combat strength in Europe and is enhanc-
ing its capability for rapid deployment of
additional
additional forces to that continent.
United States theater nuclear forces are
1012
