Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 15
University (Conn.). He was provost,
dean of the faculty, and senior lecturer in
government and legal studies at Bowdoin
College (Maine) from 1970 to 1975.
Since 1975 he has been president of Mid-
dlebury College.
Mississippi River Commission
Nomination of Roy T. Sessums and James W.
Yancey To Be Members. March 15, 1978
The President today announced that
he will nominate Roy T. Sessums and
James W. Yancey to be members of the
Mississippi River Commission for terms
of 9 years.
Sessums, 69, of Metairie, La., would be
reappointed to the Commission. He is a
former director of the Louisiana Depart-
ment of Public Works (1953 to 1955)
and former professor of civil engineering
at Louisiana Polytechnic Institute. From
1955 to 1973, he was with the Freeport
Minerals Co., retiring as vice president.
Since 1973 he has been a consultant to
Freeport Minerals Co. He was a member
of the National Offshore Operations In-
dustry Advisory Committee to the Com-
mandant of the U.S. Coast Guard from
1959 to 1973, and served on the Presi-
dent's Water Pollution Control Advisory
Board in 1967 and 1968.
Yancey, 55, of Marianna, Ark., has
been a farmer and ginner for the past 40
years. He served in the United States
Navy from 1941 to 1945. He is president
of the board of directors of the Mid-
South Cotton Growers Association and
president and manager of Marianna Gin,
Inc. Yancey is a delegate and representa-
tive of the First Congressional District
and also serves as a member of the execu-
tive board of the Arkansas Association of
Quorum Courts.
Democratic Congressional
Campaign Dinner
Remarks at the Dinner. March 15, 1978
It's a great honor for me to be here
and to be introduced by one of the finest
men I've ever known, Vice President
Maddox-I mean, Vice President Mon-
dale. [Laughter]
I've had a hard time lately. It's hard to
make decisions. I avoided it all during the
campaign. One of the good things about
running for President, there are so many
different issues to be fuzzy on. [Laughter]
But then when you get in the Oval Office,
it's all changed, and the hard matters
press upon you.
One thing I had to decide very early
was who would lead our great Democratic
Party. And I have to say that the people
who really lead and support the Demo-
cratic Party are the ones who, year after
year, have made a tremendous sacrifice
to make it possible to select and present
to the American people for election the
wonderful Democratic leaders who serve
in the Congress, in the House and Senate.
I thank you all for doing that.
Speaker O'Neill and Majority Leader
Byrd are the two greatest congressional
leaders I've ever had a chance to work
with as President. We have a wonderful
chairman, John White.
When I was first elected, I had to make
a decision about Bob Strauss. I asked him
to come over as Special Trade Representa-
tive, which was one of the best decisions I
ever made for the Democratic Party. I
needed to have restored business confi-
dence. The stock market fell 300 points.
He's in charge of foreign trade. We had
a $30 billion trade balance last year- def-
icit. He's also in charge of the value of the
dollar, as you know. [Laughter]
I have had some happy days. One was
just before Christmas, when I got a report
511
