Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 19
to take another major step by creating a
separate Department of Education.
But even the best organized Govern-
ment will only be as effective as the peo-
ple who carry out its policies. For this
reason, I consider civil service reform to
be absolutely vital. Worked out with the
civil servants themselves, this reorganiza-
tion plan will restore the merit principle
to a system which has grown into a bu-
reaucratic maze. It will provide greater
management flexibility and better re-
wards for better performance without
compromising job security.
Then and only then can we have a
government that is efficient, open, and
truly worthy of our people's understand-
ing and respect. I have promised that we
will have such a government, and I in-
tend to keep that promise.
In our foreign policy, the separation of
people from government has been in the
past a source of weakness and error. In a
democratic system like ours, foreign policy
decisions must be able to stand the test of
public examination and public debate. If
we make a mistake in this administration,
it will be on the side of frankness and
openness with the American people.
In our modern world, when the deaths
of literally millions of people can result
from a few terrifying seconds of destruc-
tion, the path of national strength and se-
curity is identical to the path of peace.
Tonight, I am happy to report that
because we are strong, our Nation is at
peace with the world.
We are a confident nation. We've re-
stored a moral basis for our foreign policy.
The very heart of our identity as a nation
is our firm commitment to human rights.
We stand for human rights because we
believe that government has as a pur-
pose to promote the well-being of its cit-
izens. This is true in our domestic policy;
it's also true in our foreign policy. The
world must know that in support of hu-
man rights, the United States will stand
firm.
We expect no quick or easy results, but
there has been significant movement to-
ward greater freedom and humanity in
several parts of the world.
Thousands of political prisoners have
been freed. The leaders of the world—
even our ideological adversaries—now see
that their attitude toward fundamental
human rights affects their standing in the
international community, and it affects
their relations with the United States.
To serve the interests of every Ameri-
can, our foreign policy has three major
goals.
The first and prime concern is and will
remain the security of our country.
Security is based on our national will,
and security is based on the strength of
our Armed Forces. We have the will, and
militarily we are very strong.
Security also comes through the
strength of our alliances. We have re-
confirmed our commitment to the defense
of Europe, and this year we will demon-
strate that commitment by further mod-
ernizing and strengthening our military
capabilities there.
Security can also be enhanced by agree-
ments with potential adversaries which
reduce the threat of nuclear disaster while
maintaining our own relative strategic
capability.
In areas of peaceful competition with
the Soviet Union, we will continue to
more than hold our own.
At the same time, we are negotiating
with quiet confidence, without haste,
with careful determination, to ease the
tensions between us and to ensure
greater stability and security.
The strategic arms limitation talks have
been long and difficult. We want a mu-
95
