Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 5
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I am. I think
when I was Governor, my concern about
the doctors was even more vivid than my
concern about lawyers. But yesterday I
addressed the attention of the Nation, I
hope, to the problems in the legal pro-
fession, and I'm sure I'll find an occasion
in the future to address the problems in
medicine also.
MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES
Q. You know there are a lot of reports
in Washington that you would be willing
to add more planes to Israel, that is, past
1983, increase the actual number of
planes committed to Israel to sweeten the
pot on that arms package. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, what
happens after 1983, into 1984 and '85, is
not addressed in this proposal. I don't
intend to change any part of the package
of proposals that we put forward. We
have emphasized the fact that the Con-
gress can address them individually, and
I think the Congress will be responsible.
But I don't intend to change the pro-
posals that we put forward.
Q. But, as you say, this package doesn't
major issues that affect California or,
sometimes, the Nation as a whole.
When I ran for President, he was very
helpful, very supportive. I think he's
doing an excellent job as Governor. He's
one of the few Governors, perhaps the
only one so far as I can remember, who,
when he's been to Washington, has spent
the night with us in the White House.
And I enjoy very much being with him,
and there's never been any sort of differ-
ence between us. I think, as he said on
many occasions, his primary concern now
is to be elected to another term as Gov-
ernor, and what happens later on in deci-
sions made by either me or him is still
highly conjectural. And I'm sure that he
and I both are committed to keeping it
that way for a while.
Q. So you still have not definitely de-
cided to run for reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have not.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:50 a.m. out-
side the residence of Paul and Janet Olson,
where the President had spent the night.
address things past 1983. You wouldn't Spokane, Washington
be averse, would you, to some commit-
ment beyond then that is not part of this
package?
THE PRESIDENT. I think any modifica-
tion in our proposal to the Congress that
we have sent up would be a mistake.
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN
Q. We had a poll out in Los Angeles
yesterday that said about 45 percent of
the people think Governor Brown is run-
ning for President. Did you get any idea
whether he is going to or not?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Jerry Brown and
I have a very good, friendly relationship.
We've never had any disputes between
us. We've consulted very closely on all
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for
Riverfront Park. May 5, 1978
Senator Magnuson, Governor Ray, Gov-
ernor Evans of Idaho, who is with us to-
day, my friend Congressman Tom Foley,
Congressman Dicks, Mayor Bair, Secre-
tary Andrus and Secretary Bergland,
many friends from Spokane:
During the last few days, I've been
pleased to leave the city of Washing-
ton, D.C., and to visit the western part of
our great Nation. I've been enjoying the
beauty of it. I've been discussing with our
citizens of all kinds, questions of great
importance to ourselves, our families, our
communities, our Nation, indeed, the en-
tire world. I've been talking about the
857
