Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
relations with the South Korean people
is to us and to them and even to all the
people of Northeast Asia.
We've had a defense pact with the
South Koreans ever since 1954. We in-
tend to honor all the elements of that
defense treaty. We are committed to the
security of South Korea. We'd like to
have the differences between them and
North Korea resolved in a friendly and
mutually constructive fashion.
We support direct negotiations between
the North and South Koreans. We will
participate with them and other inter-
ested parties if necessary. We've been in-
vited by the North Koreans, indirectly at
least, to meet with them without the
South Koreans being present. We are not
willing to do that.
We enjoyed last year about a $5½ bil-
lion trade with South Korea, about a
billion dollars of which was for agricul-
tural products. So, I wanted to mention
this because quite often, in the excitement
of discussing the unpleasant Tongsun
Park experience, we lose sight of the fact
that South Korea is a strong ally of ours.
We are concerned about the human
rights issue in South Korea, and we're
doing everything we can to impress upon
the leaders in South Korea that this is a
problem for us and creates a bad impres-
sion among our own people.
We have, additionally in foreign affairs,
the prospective meeting in Jerusalem on
the 15th between the foreign ministers of
Egypt and Israel. I'll be consulting with
Cy Vance tomorrow before he goes to
join those discussions. He's just now re-
turning from a speaking trip around the
country to talk about the Panama Canal
treaties.
I stay in close touch, as you can well
imagine, with Prime Minister Begin and
President Sadat and other leaders. I com-
municate with some of them several times
a week through diplomatic dispatch and
personal letters, which are delivered very
quickly between us.
We put a great deal of importance into
these discussions in Jerusalem. I think if
the peace process that Sadat has initiated
should break down, it would be a very
serious blow to world peace. And we're
determined to add our good offices when-
ever we can.
In the upcoming Congress-to change
the subject again-we'll be considering
quite early the Panama Canal treaties,
probably second only in urgency, as far
as time goes, to the energy legislation itself.
We hope that we can get both these major
matters out of the way fairly early, so
that we can address the more routine sub-
jects that are important to us all.
I'll be presenting the budget to the
Congress later this month. I'll make a
State of the Union speech the 19th. I
hope to get up to Camp David this week-
end to do some final work on the State of
the Union draft, on which we've been
working for several weeks now.
I think it's important that we continue
to put strong emphasis on the economy.
As you know, we've had a fairly good year
in 1977 as judged by the cold statistics.
We saw the unemployment rate drop a
little more than 12 percent; corporate
profits were up about 11½ percent.
We had an increase in the gross na-
tional product, between 5 and 6 percent.
In the last 6 months, we had the inflation
rate down around 4 percent, although we
still have about a 6-percent underlying
inflation rate. And we want to keep this
going.
The prospects are for fairly good eco-
nomic indicators to show up the first two
quarters of 1978, and then, because of
worldwide problems, it's likely to taper
off unless we do something. So, I do in-
tend to advocate to the Congress a sub-
68
