Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Mar. 20
Let us alone to manage the things that
we can manage individually, in a family,
in a neighborhood, in a city, in a State,
but at the same time setting an example
and lending a helping hand with tax-
payers' dollars in an efficient way.
We're trying now with the Congress
help to reorganize the basic structure of
our Government to make sure not only
that people outside Government have a
chance to work but that people in Gov-
crnment have a chance to do a good job
and are required to do a good job, be-
cause most of them want to. And I hope
you'll help me with Government reorga-
nization, civil service reform, welfare re-
form, tax reform, a cutting down of
paperwork and redtape, to make your
Government simple and workable so you
can understand and control it.
I'd just like to say one more thing. The
problems that face any President of this
country are extremely complicated, they
are difficult, and they are a great personal
burden when you share the responsibility
for the lives of more than 200 million
Americans. But I've enjoyed this respon-
sibility, because I have a sense that there
is a partnership between me and people
like you all over the world.
I don't know all the answers. But I be-
lieve that I will be right in my judgment,
I will be fair and enlightened in my deci-
sions. I will be inspired on occasion to
restore and even to enhance the great-
ness of our country to the extent that I
stay close to people who are interested,
as are you, in the finest aspects of govern-
ment in the greatest nation on Earth.
We have unresolved problems. We
need a national energy policy. We need a
comprehensive Government reform. We
need to have a settlement of the major
labor disputes like the coal strike. We
need to have a SALT agreement with the
Soviet Union to cut down on the threat
of nuclear holocaust that might destroy
us all. We need to have a ban against the
testing of atomic explosives, in our coun-
try, the Soviet nation, Britain, France,
and China. We need to have a prohibition
against the testing or the evolution of ex-
plosives among the many nations on Earth
that don't presently belong to the nuclear
club. And we need to have again a gov-
ernment that's close to you.
There are many questions that need to
be resolved that might take a long time.
But I believe that it's best not to ignore
them any longer. I'll do the best I can
not to disappoint you.
Many of you are responsible for my be-
ing in the White House. And you have a
responsibility to assure and to help me do
a good job. And I hope you'll never let
me down. I'll never let you down. And we,
together, will assure that we will represent
the United States of America, the greatest
nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. at
the Savannah Civic Center. In the opening
portion of his remarks, he referred to Thomas
Gignilliat, president of the society, John P.
Rousakis, mayor of Savannah, and Toby Butti-
mer, chairman of the society's speakers
committee.
Earlier in the evening, the President visited a
reception for former campaign workers from
the Savannah area at the DeSoto Hilton Hotel.
Golda Meir
Letter to the Former Israeli Prime Minister.
March 20, 1978
Dear Mrs. Meir:
I was alarmed to learn today of your
illness and relieved to hear that you are
resting comfortably. Your strength, cour-
age, and humanity have been an inspira-
tion to our people and we look upon you
with deep affection and admiration.
543
