Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
This was not the first time New Hamp-
shire voters of one party or the other an-
ticipated the eventual outcome of the
Presidential election. Indeed, our first-in-
the-Nation primary has been an unfailing
bellwether in seven consecutive primaries
dating back to 1952. Today, the man we
foresaw into the White House long before
many others did has come back to New
Hampshire. He has come here to engage
in a public dialog with the young people
of our State. But before I invite the Pres-
ident to the podium, I'd like to say a few
words about him, about the people of
New Hampshire, and about the format of
this program.
The first thing I want to say is that I
believe Jimmy Carter's performance as a
President has vindicated New Hamp-
shire's judgment of him as a candidate.
We all know you've had some disap-
pointments in your first year in office,
Mr. President. Not everything you set out
to do has been accomplished. But I think
you should know this about the people up
here. They are realists and they are fair-
minded. They don't expect miracles from
their Chief Executive, any more than they
expect to agree with him on every point
and every issue. What they do expect of
their President is this: They expect him
to love justice and to hate iniquity and to
stand for the very best that is in us as a
people.
You have met those expectations, Mr.
President, and that's why my readings up
here show that there is a wide and a deep
reservoir of good feeling for you among
the people. We like you, Jimmy Carter,
and with all our hearts we want you to
do well.
We are especially pleased to have you
meet with us in the context of one of our
honored traditions, the New England
town meeting. Here in New Hampshire,
we still believe that the town meeting of-
fers the most democratic, direct, and ef-
fective means of conducting the course of
government, because the decisionmaking
process involves the entire community.
Those decisions are made after the free
and open exchange of views, and this is
what we seek here today.
Now a word of explanation about the
procedure we will follow. The President
believes, and I share that belief, that we
must do all that we can to encourage the
involvement of young people in the proc-
ess of government. With that in mind, he
suggested that a representative cross-sec-
tion of the high school students of New
Hampshire be invited here today to ask
questions and exchange views with the
President of the United States.
More than 500 students were invited.
And after his opening remarks, the Pres-
ident will respond to the questions they
have prepared. That said, ladies and gen-
tlemen, the President of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. It's good to be back in New Hamp-
shire, back in Nashua. The first time I
came here as a candidate, the crowd who
met me was not quite so large as this.
[Laughter]
We had a political rally in a small front
living room, and there were a lot of empty
seats that faced me that evening. But as I
campaigned for months here in your State
I not only made many dedicated friends
who later gave me a victory in your cru-
cial primary, I not only learned a lot about
New Hampshire, your special attitudes
and your special hopes and dreams, but it
gave me in microcosm a good preview of
what I was to face in the 29 other pri-
maries that I entered in 1976.
Here is focused in an unprecedented,
unequaled way, a sense of person-to-per-
son campaigning. Your demands on
candidates even for President are quite
severe, because you want to know in detail
stands on issues, personal characteristics,
and the dedication that that candidate
365
