Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
North-South Dialogue
Throughout 1975 and 1976 the United
States and other developed countries
worked with a group of developing na-
tions in the Conference of International
Economic Cooperations (CIEC). That
"North-South Dialogue" reached agree-
ment on some issues in June 1977, but
there remain a number of unresolved
questions. The United States will con-
tinue to consult and negotiate with de-
veloping countries on questions like com-
modity price stabilization, technology, and
a common fund for international buffer
stocks. We will pursue the North-South
dialogue in the months ahead, confident
that the developed nations and the de-
veloping nations can agree upon meas-
ures that will let all nations participate
more fully in the management of the
world economy.
Africa
Our relations with Africa involve
energy, human rights, economic develop-
ment, and the North-South dialogue. The
Maputo and Lagos Conferences demon-
strated that African countries can discuss
difficult problems with us, to mutual ad-
vantage. Our relations with Nigeria have
improved dramatically.
The Administration's FY 79 budget
substantially increases development as-
sistance to Africa, including continued
support for the African Development
Fund, and other programs to help African
governments meet their people's basic
human needs. The growth of African re-
gional institutions like the Sahel Develop-
ment Fund is important to African
development.
Latin-America/Caribbean
The Administration's approach to
Latin America and the Caribbean recog-
nizes this region's diversity. We have
placed great importance on the protection
and defense of human rights, on halting
the proliferation of nuclear weapons ca-
pabilities, on restraining conventional
arms sales, on contributing to the settle-
ment of disputes, and on engaging Latin
governments in global economic nego-
tiations.
We are now seeking Senate ratification
of Protocol I of the Treaty of Tlatelolco,
and the American Convention on Human
Rights. Through the Caribbean Group,
we are trying to promote regional devel-
opment. And we intend to help several
nations develop alternative energy
sources.
Panama
General Torrijos and I signed the two
Panama Canal Treaties
Treaties on Septem-
ber 9 [7], 1977. These treaties meet the
legitimate interests of Panama and the
United States and guarantee our perma-
nent right to protect and defend the
Canal. They will contribute importantly
to regional stability.
Asia
The United States has sought to under-
line our desire for a close relationship with
the developing countries of Asia through
my visit to that continent and through
regular contacts with the member coun-
tries of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations. We welcome the cooperation
with ASEAN of the developed countries
of the region, such as Japan and Aus-
tralia.
PROMOTING REGIONAL RECONCILIATION
The greatest danger to world peace and
stability is not war among the great
powers, but war among small nations.
During the past year, the United States
has helped to promote productive nego-
tiations in two troubled regions: the
Middle East and Southern Africa. We
have also tried to settle conflicts in the
120
