May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Last year I sent the Congress legisla-
tion that would put the brakes on out-of-
control hospital costs without affecting the
quality of care. That legislation is one of
my top priorities today.
I
urge you, as a member of the Com-
merce Committee of the House, to help
bring spiralling health care costs back in
line with the rest of the economy by pass-
ing that legislation at your forthcoming
markup.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters
addressed to each member of the committee.
The text was released on May 24.
Treaty for the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons in Latin
America
Message to the Senate Transmitting
Additional Protocol I. May 24, 1978
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith Additional Protocol
I to the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nu-
clear Weapons in Latin America. The
Protocol was signed by me on behalf of
the United States on May 26, 1977.
For the information of the Senate, I
transmit also the report of the Depart-
ment of State on the Protocol and a copy
of the Treaty to which it pertains.
The Treaty for the Prohibition of Nu-
clear Weapons in Latin America, done
at Mexico City, February 14, 1967, con-
stitutes the first successful attempt to
establish a nuclear weapon-free zone in
any populated area of the world. The
Treaty itself is open only to States lo-
cated in the zone and has been signed by
all of them, with the exception of Cuba
and Guyana. It has been ratified by all
signatories, except Argentina, which an-
nounced in November 1977 its intention
to ratify the Treaty. It is not yet in force
for Brazil and Chile. At present, it is in
force for twenty-two States.
The Treaty is accompanied by two
Protocols. Protocol II to the Treaty, in-
tended for signature by nuclear weapon
States, was ratified by the United States
on May 12, 1971. It calls on the nuclear
weapon States to respect the Latin
American Nuclear Free Zone, not to con-
tribute to any violation of the Treaty,
and not to use or threaten to use nu-
clear weapons against the Parties to the
Treaty. Other nuclear weapon States
that have ratified Protocol II are
France, the People's Republic of China
and the United Kingdom.
Protocol I, transmitted today for your
advice and consent to ratification, is open
to all States having international respon-
sibility, de jure or de facto, for territories
lying within the zone of application de-
fined in the Treaty. It has been ratified by
the Netherlands and the United King-
dom and obligates States adhering to it
to apply pertinent provisions of the
Treaty to such territories lying within the
zone. The territories affected by United
States adherence include Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands, the Canal Zone (until
entry into force of the Panama Canal
Treaties), and our military base at
Guantanamo.
I am convinced that it is in the best
interest of the United States to ratify
Protocol I. Such a step will strengthen
our relations with our Latin American
neighbors, further our global non-prolif-
eration and arms control objectives and
contribute to the full realization of the
Latin American Nuclear Free Zone. It
is my sincere hope that adherence by the
United States to Protocol I will induce
other countries, eligible to become Parties
962
