May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
whether women do have those equal
rights guaranteed in the United States
Constitution or whether they don't. And
I know the focusing of political pressures
on you is not easy to make that decision,
and quite often you might fear, "I can't
be reelected, or I can't please the more
vocal groups in my district if I vote what
I know my conscience says is right."
So, you share with me that kind of de-
cision that is never easy. You and I share
a partnership, because almost everything
that we decide in Washington in giving
American people fairness, equality, and
opportunity to enjoy the privileges of
citizenship are administered by you.
And we've tried to evolve programs re-
cently, recognizing that partnership. A
new urban policy was hammered out with
members of your legislature, county offi-
cials, your Governor, obviously your con-
gressional delegation.
Well, I'm very proud to be here, to
share with you this morning some of my
thoughts about the responsibilities of pub-
lic service, the difficulties of it, but the
gratification of knowing that we are help-
ing to shape the character of our Nation
and we are trying to make sure that Illi-
nois represents, in its government, the
finest possible aspects of our people, that
we are trying to inspire them to reach for
greatness, to honor ideals and principles,
in spite, sometime, of the political conse-
quences.
And now, Mr. Speaker, I would like
for your joint session to ask me any ques-
tion that you might have concerning na-
tional or international affairs. I'll do the
best I can to answer the questions. If I
don't know, one of those difficult political
decisions is to admit that I don't know
the answer. But I'll let the speaker recog-
nize you, and I'll try to keep my answers
brief.
SPEAKER REDMOND. Representative
McPike, like the President, a graduate of
the United States Naval Academy.
QUESTIONS
LABOR LAW REFORM
REPRESENTATIVE PIKE. Thank you,
Mr. President. Roy Sandquist and I, as
graduates of the Naval Academy, share
your feelings on the equal rights amend-
ment. But on another important subject,
Illinois, as a northern, industrial State, in
the past 10 years has lost many manufac-
turing jobs to the South. To a large de-
gree we feel that this is due to nonunion
wages that are prevalent in the Sunbelt.
We therefore feel that passage of the labor
law reform bill now in Congress is very
important. Could you comment on its im-
portance and on its chance of passage?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I'm
from the South, and have been a Gov-
ernor. And I would say that I spent 25
percent of my time, as do other South-
eastern Governors, in recruiting invest-
ments in our State, not only from the rest
of the Nation, including Illinois, but also
from foreign countries, Japan, Germany,
and others, and trying to sell Georgia
products overseas. It is a major responsi-
bility of a Southern Governor.
We have now narrowed, however, wage
differentials between the South, which
used to be very low-wage regions, com-
pared to the rest of the country. The year
that I went out of office as Governor, the
difference was only 11 percent, because as
the major nationwide companies have
moved into Georgia, South Carolina,
other Southeastern States, they cannot af-
ford to pay their own employees a differ-
ent wage scale in Georgia than they do
in Illinois. Locally grown, nonunionized
companies, of course, have attempted and
have sometimes succeeded in not meeting
that competition, and have very low wage
rates. I favor the labor law reform legis-
lation. I think it is a very modest bill. I
read every provision of it before I would
send it to the Congress with my approval.
I am a very conservative Southern busi-
990
