Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
developed with the direct involvement of
civil servants. Early this year, Congress
will receive legislation and a reorganiza-
tion plan to:
-restructure the institutions that run
the Civil Service;
-increase safeguards against abuses of
official power;
-provide greater incentives for man-
agers to improve the Government's
efficiency and responsiveness;
-reduce the system's red tape and de-
lays;
-speed the procedures for dealing with
employee grievances and disciplinary
actions;
proposed the abolition of nearly 500 ad-
visory committees and small agencies.
In addition to the upcoming Civil Serv-
ice and education reform efforts, we will
soon submit proposals:
-to restructure our equal employment
programs to provide better protection for
the rights of minorities and women, and
to ease the burden of compliance on State
and local government as well as business;
-to improve the administration of jus-
tice; and
-to reorganize our disaster assistance
programs.
Additional studies are under way in
many other areas, and several of these will
—make equal employment opportuni- result in reorganization proposals later
ties more effective.
Last year the Administration acted to
protect Federal employees from the loss
of a job due to reorganization. Such pro-
tection will be maintained.
Hatch Act Reform
I will continue to support reform of the
Hatch Act, which would restore the right
of most Civil Service employees to par-
ticipate in the political process.
Part-time and Flexi-time Employment
To help obtain Federal jobs for the
elderly, the handicapped, women, and
others with family responsibilities, all Fed-
eral agencies will carry forward renewed
efforts to increase part-time and flexi-time
employment opportunities.
REORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND
REGULATORY REFORM
The Government Reorganization Proj-
ect will keep working to make the Govern-
ment more responsive and efficient. Last
year we combined parts of 11 agencies
into one Department of Energy, stream-
lined the Executive Office of the President
and reduced the White House Staff, and
this year. Efforts to improve Federal cash
management continue.
We are also vigorously pursuing the
effort begun last year to reduce the bur-
den of outdated, ineffective, and nit-
picking regulations. For example, the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare eliminated 5% of their regula-
tions, the Federal Trade Commission re-
scinded 111 outdated sets of rules on trade
practices and both the Civil Aeronautics
Board and the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission have moved to allow more com-
petition, which has led to lower prices.
In 1978, we will continue these efforts.
Worker Health and Safety
The Occupational Health and Safety
Administration has already slashed its
paperwork requirements by 50% and
eliminated 1,100 unnecessary regulations,
while improving its capacity to protect
workers. This spring the Task Force on
Worker Safety will make further recom-
mendations to increase protection for
workers and minimize employer cost.
108
