Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
May 17
munism, restraint has prevailed. Com-
munications between us and the United
States have been facilitated greatly by the
removal of a number of obstacles that
have stood in our way.
The Vietnam war is over. While the
Middle East conflict remains unresolved,
there is great recognition that the restora-
tion of the rights of all people in that area,
including the Palestinians, is essential for
the establishment of lasting and just
peace.
In southern Africa, there is greater un-
derstanding and acceptance that the in-
terests of the United States of America
will not be served by the status quo,
but
by a change in structural relations be-
tween white, black, and brown, in which
no one race will be superior over the
others.
America is playing a decisive role in the
current initiatives to achieve independ-
ence for Zimbabwe and Namibia based
on majority rule. President Carter and his
administration have been most forthright
in giving concrete expression to America's
antiracist and antioppression policies.
Mr. President, we will support any
genuine efforts designed to achieve peace
based on freedom and justice and the en-
hancement of human dignity. We have
never compromised our principles before,
even in the face of great difficulties. We
will not now do so.
We are strengthened and are resolved
by the knowledge that the American Gov-
ernment and the many people of good will
in this great country accept the principles
which motivated the Founding Fathers to
launch their revolution, which led to the
Declaration of American Independence.
The same spirit and beliefs contained
in the American Declaration of Independ-
ence motivate liberation movements. They
want freedom and independence. We
want mankind to be free, not only free
from all forms of oppression and exploita-
tion of man by man but also free to do
what we want and when we want within
the law of the land.
This brings me to the subject of human
rights, which President Carter has cham-
pioned since coming to office. The struggle
of all the people in the world, wherever
they may be, is the struggle for the en-
hancement of human dignity. That the
President of the United States should
champion the cause of human rights is a
source of great inspiration to all of us.
There are those who are cynical about
the importance of morality in politics. I
say they are wrong. I believe that unless
morality occupies a higher place in de-
ciding the fate of our fellow man and in
shaping the destiny of mankind, the con-
sequences are bound to be catastrophic.
Without moral principles guiding de-
cisionmakers, a
a nuclear war which
haunts all of us will be more difficult to
avoid. Mankind's happy future will de-
moral correctness of man's actions to-
pend on man's respect for man, on the
wards other men.
We who come from that part of the
world called southern Africa understand
that when morals are removed from
man's conscience, only a beastly heart is
left behind. Without morals, man is not
man, but a mere imitation of God's orig-
inal design.
Therefore, I can only urge you, Mr.
President, I can only urge the people of
these United States to continue sound-
ing the moral drums even louder and
clearer.
We may not succeed now. But let us
begin to root our decisions on the moral
correctness of our actions. If we should
leave the decisions to those who think
only in terms of military, political, eco-
nomic, or technological power, man will
destroy the world faster than he really
wants.
923
