Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
at Bath, Maine. And I've just put into
the 1979 budget authorization for eight
more patrol frigates. And I think there's
an excellent chance with Bill Hathaway
and Ed Muskie working on it that Bath
will get their share of those contracts.
[Laughter] He understands the special
problem of fishermen, and he fights for
them.
And I think you all know that Maine
in the past has really suffered because of
your heavy dependence on imported oil.
Your fuel bills for the same amount of
heat are about 45 percent higher than
many other parts of the Nation. Some of
your industries have been here a long time,
and the foreign competition is very severe.
And he understands people who work
in places like Maine shoe factories. And
he not only understands them but he fights
for them.
If I were a resident of Maine, I would
consider it not only a source of pride but
also a source of assurance about the future
and gratitude if Bill Hathaway was my
Senator.
I was trying to think of something bad
to say about him, but [laughter]—I can't
think of anything at this time. And maybe
I should have talked to Ed Muskie ahead
of time. But everything that I've said is
absolutely true. And I have a special sense
of responsibility as a Democratic Presi-
dent, the titular head of the Democratic
Party, to assess the principles of our
Nation and our party and to speak up
when I deeply believe in someone.
And I especially feel this responsibility
when that person quite often is not a show-
horse but one who quietly and meticu-
lously and competently and courageously
goes about his work and doesn't ask for
accolades or appreciation, but gets his
gratification out of knowing that he does
a job well. And I can't think of anyone
who most accurately fits that description
than Bill
than Bill Hathaway, who's a personal
friend of mine.
And I come here to let you know that
I hope that you'll leave this rally for him,
the fundraising banquet for him, with a
determination not to be satisfied with
what you've already done. I know that
many of you are personal friends of Bill
Hathaway's. You've made substantial con-
tributions, and that's not enough.
He's going to have a tough campaign
on his hands this year. And it's going to re-
quire that each one of you become kind
of a focal point or an organizer to recruit
other people, to contribute heavily finan-
cially, and also to arouse the spirit and the
enthusiasm and the commitment of others
who feel like you do, that Maine needs
Bill Hathaway. And I think the United
States needs him, too. So let's work to-
gether to get him elected.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:11 p.m. at the
Penobscot Valley Country Club.
Bangor, Maine
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. February 17, 1978
THE PRESIDENT. This reminds me of
1976, in the latter part of the campaign,
not the first part, because when I came
to Maine for the first time, no one knew
who I was or cared. [Laughter] I made a
speech to the Democratic State Conven-
tion, and I remember that I was the 23d
person on the program, and I started
speaking about 10:20. And then when I
began to run for President and came
back, some of you were very hospitable to
me and took me in and made me feel at
home. Later my wife came, my three sons,
their wives, my Aunt Cissy, my sister
Ruth, my mother, and maybe later Billy
will come as well. [Laughter]
344
