Feb. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
ment compensation fund and their total
salaries in some families is up to $100 or
$125. Is the Federal Government pre-
pared to do anything for these workers?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
your own State and others in New Eng-
land that were so heavily damaged by the
snowstorm and also by the actions of the
seas and wind have been declared
major disaster areas. This involves several
elements of aid. One was an immediate
dispatching here of Sea Bees and mem-
bers of the other military forces to actu-
ally help in the clearing of the highways
and the restoration of normal life in your
economy.
I have also authorized personal loans
for those who have damage to their
homes, those who have serious economic
problems, and we've worked very closely
in harmony with the State and local offi-
cials on this element as well.
These loans are at very low interest.
Sometimes the interest payments are al-
most nonexistent. We hope that there can
be some additional economic aid, if nec-
essary, granted within the bounds of the
law. But I don't know of any specific fea-
ture that would permit us to compensate
workers for lost wages.
(The President's disaster declaration
for Massachusetts, as well as for Rhode
Island, does provide for the full legal
amount of Federal unemployment com-
pensation benefits to workers unemployed
by the disaster.) ¹
I think most of the industry here that
employs people has now been restored to
full employment-almost to full employ-
ment-but with that one exception, I
think we are providing the maximum
amount of aid that can be under the U.S.
law.
Q. Ed McHugh, Worcester Telegram.
Considering how deeply some of the New
¹ Printed in the transcript.
England States are already in hock to the
Federal Government, do you consider it
proper for some of them to convert their
unemployment insurance programs into
disaster relief funds for people who lost
wages during the storm?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know enough
about the answer to give you a response.
I think in every instance of this kind, the
primary responsibility has got to be for the
Governor or local officials in the State to
make a judgment on what's best for that
particular area. And if a Governor or a
legislature or a mayor has made that deci-
sion, I would not want to contradict it.
Whether the unemployment compensa-
tion payment is more crucial—at that one
moment during or immediately following
a disaster or whether it's more important
to correct the consequences directly if
there's a disaster in physical terms, I
would not want to judge. That's a deci-
sion the Governor will have to make.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT CONSTRUCTION
Q. Steve Bascade, WJAR-TV in Provi-
dence. The Federal appeals judge, Mr.
President, has asked the Environmental
Protection Agency to reconsider the ap-
proval of a cooling system for the nuclear
plant in Seabrook, New Hampshire, part
of his reasoning based on the fact that
opponents of the plant didn't have ac-
cess to all the relevant information.
My question: How much say should
people have over construction of a plant,
and should they specifically have veto
power in a referendum to oppose a nu-
clear plant if they so wish?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
there are now no legal prohibitions at the
Federal Government level from proceed-
ing with the Seabrook plant. The Nuclear
Regulatory Commission has not yet given
a license. But the Environmental Protec-
I
334
