Mar. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
I've been honored in many ways in
the last number of months. One of the
greatest honors that I've had has been
to work very closely with the distin-
guished leaders of the Congress. And I
would like to recognize in particular the
superb courage and leadership and in-
spiration that has been provided to our
own State and to the country by Sena-
tor Talmadge and Senator Nunn, on
the platform with me tonight.
mer,
I also feel particularly close to Toby
Buttimer. As you know, if I had as many
sons and grandchildren as Toby Butti-
I would have been President 4 years
earlier than I was. [Laughter] But in
a way, in addition to his great family—
I have two grandsons of my own-there
are some other things that bind me to-
gether with Toby. As you know, he's a
wholesale beer distributor. And
my
brother, Billy, is a wholesale beer con-
sumer. [Laughter]
I hope that you won't mention to Billy
my comment about him, because when I
first was elected President, I made some
humorous remark about Billy one night
at a banquet, and the next day the na-
tional news media representatives went
to Billy's filling station and said, "What do
you think about your brother?" And he
said, "Well, I'd rather not comment.'
And they said, “Well, I'm not talking
about his character or his ability as a cam-
paigner or a President, just some minor
characteristic of his." And Billy said,
"Well, I'd just rather not comment on my
brother Jimmy." They said, "What do
you think about Jimmy's smile?" And Billy
thought for a while, and he said, "Well,
it reminds me of a fox, intoxicated, lick-
ing sorghum syrup out of a live light
socket." [Laughter]
So, I would appreciate you keeping
harmony between me and my brother.
[Laughter]
Another thing I like about the Irish,
and the Hibernian members particular-
ly, is that you are perfectly willing to go
from the sublime to the ridiculous. Last
year Bishop Fulton Sheen was your main
speaker. This year, as the first choice—
I was second choice-you invited Ham-
ilton Jordan. I thought the same thing
about sublime to the ridiculous the first
time I observed that you began your
festivities at the beautiful cathedral with
Mass and wound up here, at night, with
just the opposite. [Laughter]
Hamilton, really, and all of us have
suffered some from the news coverage.
As you know, in Washington we haven't
been the favorites there. Jody Powell,
Griffin Bell, Bert Lance, myself, Jack
Watson, Andy Young, and other Geor-
gians have not come out completely un-
scathed. And sometimes we can't under-
stand it.
I remember a couple of weeks ago I felt
very sorry for Hamilton at the latest epi-
sode. I didn't want to complain to him
personally, because I knew he was already
embarrassed. He came by to see me, and I
was a little surprised. He said, "Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to talk to you for a few min-
utes. I don't understand Washington."
And he said, "I get my name spread all
across the Washington Post in headlines
for doing the same thing we used to do
every night in Savannah." [Laughter]
So in some ways, you've been good
training for us. One of the news people
observed, as I was leaving Washington to
get in the helicopter to come to the air-
port to come down here, said, "Mr. Presi-
dent, I think you've contributed more to
St. Patrick's Day than any other President
that's ever lived." And I said, "I really
appreciate that.” He
appreciate that." He said, "Yes, your
whole administration is green." [Laughter]
At least they're learning how to speak
southern in Washington. That's good.
[Laughter]
540
