Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Agency heads would be authorized to
distribute bonuses for superior perform-
ance to not more than 50 per cent of the
senior executives each year. These would
be allocated according to criteria pre-
scribed by the Office of Personnel Man-
agement, and should average less than
five per cent of base salary per year. They
would not constitute an increase in salary
but rather a one-time payment. The
Office of Personnel Management also
would be empowered to award an addi-
tional stipend directly to a select group of
senior executives, approximately five per
cent of the total of the Senior Executive
Service, who have especially distinguished
themselves in their work. The total of base
salary, bonus, and honorary stipend
should in no case exceed 95 per cent of
the salary level for an Executive Level II
position.
No one now serving in the "super-
grade" managerial positions would be re-
quired to join the Senior Executive Serv-
ice. But all would have the opportunity
to join. And the current percentage of
non-career supergrade managers-ap-
proximately 10 per cent would be writ-
ten into law for the first time, so that the
Office of Personnel Management would
not retain the existing authority of the
Civil Service Commission to expand the
proportion of political appointees.
This new Senior Executive Service will
provide a highly qualified corps of top
managers with strong incentives and op-
portunities to improve the management
of the Federal government.
ance-not merely endurance-should de-
termine the compensation of Federal
managers and supervisors. I am proposing
legislation to let the Office of Personnel
Management establish an incentive pay
system for government managers, starting
with those in grades GS-13 through GS-
15. Approximately 72,000 managers and
supervisors would be affected by such a
system which could later be extended by
Congress to other managers and super-
visors.
These managers and supervisors would
no longer receive automatic "step" in-
creases in pay and would receive only 50
per cent of their annual comparability
pay increase. They would, however, be
eligible for "performance" pay increases
of up to 12 per cent of their existing sal-
ary. Such a change would not increase
payroll costs, and it should be insulated
against improprieties through the use of
strong audit and performance reviews by
the Office of Personnel Management.
4. A Fairer and Speedier Disciplinary
System
The simple concept of a "merit sys-
tem" has grown into a tangled web of
complicated rules and regulations.
Managers are weakened in their ability
to reward the best and most talented peo-
ple-and to fire those few who are unwill-
ing to work.
The sad fact is that it is easier to pro-
mote and transfer incompetent employees
than to get rid of them.
It may take as long as three years
3. Incentive Pay for Lower Level Federal merely to fire someone for just cause, and
Managers and Supervisors
The current Federal pay system pro-
vides virtually automatic "step" pay in-
creases as well as further increases to keep
Federal salaries comparable to those in
private business. This may be appropriate
for most Federal employees, but perform-
at the same time the protection of legiti-
mate rights is a costly and time-consuming
process for the employee.
A speedier and fairer disciplinary sys-
tem will create a climate in which man-
agers may discharge non-performing em-
ployees-using due process-with reason-
446
