May 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
We have very little, if any influence
on what Castro does concerning basic
human rights. Nothing would please me
more than to see Castro announce today
that he was going to withdraw his troops
from Angola, from Mozambique, from
South Yemen, from Ethiopia, that he was
going to refrain from injecting Cuban
troops into Rhodesia in the future, or that
he was going to quit offering Cuban troops
to the leaders among the frontline Presi-
dents, that he was going to release politi-
cal prisoners.
You know, nothing would please me
more than for him to do that. But I
can't tell you that we have any hopes that
this will be the case.
As I said earlier, I don't think that
our relationships with Cuba are going to
improve any further unless he shows in
tangible form that he's committed both
to peace and to the enhancement of
human rights.
I'll answer just one more question.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS LEGISLATION
Q. Mr. President, if the proposed
alien adjustment and employment act
becomes law, do you feel that such a
massive program could be accomplished
within a reasonable period of time? And
would a special department or agency be
needed to handle this particular under-
taking?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think it could
be administered. I can't guarantee the
complete success of it or any other effort
of this kind when so many different kinds
of human beings are involved.
We really want to feel our way into
this program carefully. One of the rea-
sons for the special status of those who
are presently in our country illegally and
who have been here for quite a while is
just to understand how many of them
there are and what the size of the prob-
lem is, so that we can deal with them
both fairly and humanely.
Another thing to which we are totally
committed is to make sure that any sort
of new program of this kind does not
work any hardship or deprivation of civil
rights against those who are American
citizens, who are here legally, and who
happen to be Spanish-speaking.
This is a crucial issue for us, and I
do think that the program would be ade-
quate. I do think we can administer it
well. It would be administered very cau-
tiously, and if there was a choice between
a rapid implementation on the one hand
and the protection of the civil rights or
human rights of all Spanish-speaking
Americans on the other hand, I would be
overly cautious in order to protect the civil
rights of those people who happen to
speak Spanish.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
LATIN AMERICAN POLICY
THE PRESIDENT. I'm looking forward
this afternoon to getting my wife back.
She's been down in Costa Rica for the in-
auguration of a new president, and she
was in Guatemala this morning. I think
that one of the things that I'd like to say
in closing is this: We've tried to change
our Latin American policy in a beneficial
way. We've done it by honoring people
who speak Spanish, just by a deep feeling
that my wife and I have that they ought to
be identified as equals.
We don't look down upon them. We're
not doing them any favors. When we have
a good relationship with Mexico or a
good relationship with Panama or a good
relationship with Costa Rica or other
countries, it's a favor to Americans, to
North Americans, and to the people who
live in this country. And some of the
things we've done have been very diffi-
cult politically.
908
