Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
and he makes up his mind according to
what's best for Delaware, which in almost
every single instance is what's best for our
great country.
So, it is an honor for me to come here
and congratulate you. This is the largest
Democratic fundraising event in the his-
tory of Delaware, and I thank you for it.
I'd just like to say one more word, and
that is that we are all in this campaign
and we are all in the political arena to-
gether, whether we are in the White
House or in the State senate. And we do
face difficult problems-Mideast, the
Horn of Africa, SALT, nonproliferation,
the embarrassment of revelations which
ought not to be part of our political
system.
Sometimes we have too much unem-
ployment, sometimes the inflation rate is
higher than we would like. There's not
always an equitable distribution of bene-
fits in our country. But I think it's good
for all of us to emphasize the positive as-
pects of American life.
Everyone in this room has been blessed
with social prominence and with respon-
sibility, the trust of our peers, perhaps
even affluence, certainly a great deal of
influence on the path of our State and
our Nation in the months and years to
come. People look to us for guidance and
for inspiration, and I think it's incumbent
on us not only to search out ways in
which we might improve our country but
also to emphasize the positive aspects of
it in spite of temporary aberrations and in
spite of the fact that we falter on occasion
in making a steady, inexorable progress.
We still live in the greatest nation on
Earth, and I think we ought to emphasize
that point as often as we can. Thank you
very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:43 p.m. in
the Gold Ballroom at the Hotel Dupont.
Wilmington, Delaware
Remarks at a State Democratic Committee
Fundraising Reception. February 20, 1978
Senator Joe Biden and to Jill; Senator
Wendell Ford, who's responsible this year
for the election and reelection of Demo-
cratic Senators all over the country; for
our fine new chairman of the Democratic
National Party, John White, from Texas;
Lieutenant Governor McGinnis and At-
torney General Weir; Treasurer Carper;
and good Democrats:
We've got a lot in common. In almost
every instance that I can consider, we
are united.
In 1974 Joe Biden came down to At-
lanta with his brother Frank to spend
the night with me. I was Governor then.
I saw a lot in this young man, and I asked
him for advice. I told him confidentially
I was going to run for President. I asked
him for his advice. He said, "Well, I can
tell you how you can be elected, even
though nobody knows you. You're a
Southerner; you haven't had any experi-
ence; you don't know very much about
national issues, as much as I know my-
self." [Laughter] "But," he said, “if you'll
get my sister to be your national chair-
man, you'll win." [Laughter]
She had better sense than to take on a
hopeless cause, so I had to take second
choice. And I chose Joe Biden, and he
campaigned for me in 1976 in 30 differ-
ent States, and Joe Biden, I want to thank
you for it.
Joe said we might lose our reputation
by demonstrating that we are united, but
I'd like to indicate to you a few things on
which we are united.
How many of you think that the next
United States Senator ought to be and
will be Joe Biden? [Applause]
Joe Biden is on the United States Sen-
ate Budget Committee. He helped, this
past year, get a $6 billion tax reduction for
386
