Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 16
vitation, because I want to dramatize my
appreciation for this great achievement—
a firmer, more productive friendship be-
tween the United States of America and
the Republic of Panama and, more broad-
ly, a gain for the cause of peace and co-
operation among all nations.
We are honored by the presence of the
leaders of the five democratic countries
who gave encouragement to us and ad-
vice to both nations during the final
treaty negotiations. I'm grateful to them
not only for the serious and helpful role
they played in those final days and weeks
but also for their continuing leadership in
dealing with such crucial matters as world
peace, nuclear nonproliferation, the status
of human rights and democratic govern-
ments, and better relationships between
the developed nations and the developing
countries of the world.
It is now three quarters of a century
since the first spade of earth was turned
in the building of the Panama Canal. This
path between two seas remains one of the
greatest and most benevolent creations
mutual respect, fairness, and equity. Be-
cause of that vision, because of that deter-
mination, we were finally able to reach
agreement.
Now, after 14 years on opposite sides of
the bargaining table, we sit together as
partners. We are equally committed to
putting into practice the agreements we
have forged. During the period of transi-
tion which lies ahead, the United States
and Panama will be working closely to-
gether. Both our countries want that
transition to be smooth and effective.
Under the treaties, both nations are
committed to safeguarding the interests of
those Americans and Panamanians who
have operated the canal so efficiently and
so expertly during its period of American
stewardship.
Together, our two countries have set
an example for peaceful and successful
negotiation that has few parallels in his-
tory. We have demonstrated our mutual
sincerity and good will. In the face of dis-
agreements not only between the two na-
tions but within the nations themselves,
ever wrought by human labor and by disagreements that were initially very
human ingenuity.
As a neutral artery for the ships of all
nations, the canal has contributed im-
mensely to the peaceful work of the
world. The treaties we solemnize today
will help perpetuate that peaceful work
for many generations to come.
Under the treaties, our two govern-
ments agree to maintain the neutrality
and security of the canal. At the same
time, we reaffirm our commitment to
honor national sovereignty and the prin-
ciple of nonintervention. These principles
are enshrined in the charters of the Or-
ganization of American States and the
United Nations.
During the long and difficult negotia-
tions, both sides held to a vision of friend-
ship and good will. Both sides were
determined to build a new relationship of
deep, in the face of our vast disparity in
size and power, we dealt with each other
in good faith as equals and with
equal determination to overcome all
differences.
During the years ahead we will work as
partners to make the promise of the trea-
ties a reality. We, the people of the
United States, and you, the people
of Panama, still have history to make
together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. at
the Coliseo-Gimnasio Nuevo Panama (Panama
City Coliseum) in response to remarks by Gen-
eral Torrijos.
Also present at the ceremony were President
Carlos Andrés Pérez of Venezuela, President
Alfonso López Michelsen of Colombia, Presi-
dent José López Portillo of Mexico, President
Rodrigo Carazo Odio of Costa Rica, and Prime
Minister Michael N. Manley of Jamaica.
1119
