Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 18
least increase in spending of any budget
that has been produced in the last 4 or 5
years, only a 2-percent growth in the
budget itself. Obviously, the programs
that have already been approved by the
Congress and by my predecessors in the
White House have to be financed.
We had a substantial economic stimulus
package that was passed in 1977. This has
had very good benefits for our country
and, in the long run, will pay rich divi-
dends even in balancing the budget. For
instance, in New England, just a year ago,
the unemployment rate was 82 percent.
At the end of the year, the unemployment
rate in New England had dropped to 5½
percent, a full 3-percent reduction in the
unemployment rate.
This is because we were able to give
about $6 billion in tax reductions. We
were able to provide jobs and training
for young people and all those who were
unemployed, and we were also able to
give many other services to the people.
These are temporary programs, but I will
send to the Congress next week a recom-
mendation that this $13 billion invest-
ment in education and training for those
who are unemployed will continue.
Obviously, the Government saves
money in the long run by having a million
people working and paying taxes than if
they are on the welfare rolls or drawing
unemployment compensation.
We could have had about a $20 billion
reduction in the amount of the deficit this
year if I had not wanted to give a tax
reduction. But I've advocated to the Con-
gress reducing the net taxes on all our
people by $25 billion this year. Again,
that's an investment in the future. I think
the Government ought to cut down on
the amount of money that we collect from
people and then spend on Government
programs.
I still am committed to do my best to
balance the budget in 1981. And we'll
have a much less deficit next year than the
budget that I just presented. Our projec-
tions now show that if the economy does
stay strong, which it is at this moment, we
still have an excellent chance to get the
budget balanced. But we are holding
down the growth in Government.
Tom McIntyre is the strongest advocate
in the Senate of taking care of, for in-
stance, small business leaders and giving
tax reductions to them and cutting down
on paperwork and unnecessary regulation
by the Federal Government.
I think that we can make our free en-
terprise system work. And we are strong
in moving toward the goals that I de-
scribed to you during the campaign. We're
making good progress. That progress will
continue.
Thank you.
NATIONAL HEALTH CARE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Ann
Sheahan from Dover High School in
Dover. On June 12, 1976, you stated that
our present national health care system.
is in need of drastic reorganization and
that our Nation lacks a workable, effi-
cient, and fair system of health care.
In your press conference on November
11, 1977, you said it was too early to lay
down a schedule on the issue of a national
health insurance. When will we see a
schedule, and will the bill be introduced
to Congress early enough for it to be acted
upon?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I will present to
the Congress an actual bill, after hearings
all over the country and after congres-
sional committees have hearings them-
selves, before the end of this congressional
session.
One of the things that I have learned
is that the Congress doesn't move as fast
as I had anticipated. And one of the rea-
sons is that certain committees in the
House and Senate have extraordinary
369
