Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 23
14 months, we've been talking energy
policy, and while we've been talking,
America has suffered economically. Talk
is cheap; energy is not.
We imported $10 billion more oil last
year than we did the year before. Despite
the lessons of 1973, we are more
dependent on the whims of foreign oil
producers today than ever before in our
history. The economic and military se-
curity of the United States is seriously
jeopardized when we rely on foreign
sources for almost half of our petroleum
needs. The heart of our defense policy is
the longstanding mutual commitments
between the United States of America and
our NATO Allies and Pacific allies. To
protect our interests, we need steady
and reliable supplies of all vital
raw materials.
We have no feasible alternatives to the
petroleum reserves of the 13 OPEC na-
tions, nor to the inescapable linkage and
interrelationship between international
politics and the oil trade. We lose
credibility with our allies when our na-
tional energy policies do not reflect this
reality.
Our influence, our prestige in the global
economic community are tarnished, and
United States leadership is seriously
weakened without a policy to reduce
waste and to bring energy costs in line
with the cost of replacement.
Each time I talk to my colleagues-
Prime Minister Fukuda from Japan, or
Chancellor Schmidt from the Federal Re-
public of Germany, Prime Minister Cal-
laghan from Great Britain, or others, they
make this point to me. In their view, a
conservation and conversion program,
aided by aligning domestic and global
prices of crude oil over an orderly period
of time, is the most important single step
that the United States can take. It is abso-
lutely vital to them.
The energy bill before Congress pro-
vides this alignment fairly and effectively,
and on a schedule that minimizes eco-
nomic disruption.
Next month I will travel to Bonn, Ger-
many, for the economic summit meeting.
The subject of the meeting is global eco-
nomic recovery. Each day it is clearer and
clearer to me that United States action on
an energy policy is absolutely crucial to
that goal of global economic recovery.
There's an inescapable connection be-
tween our energy policy, the domestic
economy, and the world economy.
Our $45 billion oil import bill last year
was a major factor in the huge United
States current account deficit. And the
different growth rates among nations in-
creases this deficit. Other nations are un-
willing to stimulate their own economy
until they are convinced that we will
check the waste of oil in our extremely
high and rapidly increasing level of oil
imports.
Concern about our deficit, which is
growing every year, almost every month,
drives down the value of the dollar, which
is the basis, as you know, of the world
economic or monetary system. The weak-
ness of the dollar adds more inflationary
pressure at home and arouses protection-
ist sentiment abroad, which in turn fuels
new inflation and further weakens eco-
nomic recovery.
In 1976, the current account deficit for
our country was $12 billion. One year
later, in 1977, it was $20 billion. More
than half of that $19 billion increase re-
flects the increase in our oil imports.
Our determination to enact a strong,
comprehensive national energy policy re-
flects our willingness to end this self-in-
dulgence, this waste, once and for all. It's
time for us to become responsible care-
takers of the bounteous world that God
gave us.
1171
