Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Q. I am talking about Section 1-302.
It says the SCC, the Special Coordination
Committee, "shall consider and submit to
the President a policy recommendation,
including all dissents, on [each] special ac-
tivity." And then Section 4-212 defines
special activities as "activities conducted
abroad in support of national foreign pol-
icy objectives . . . which are planned
and executed so that the role of the
United States Government is not appar-
ent or acknowledged publicly"—which
seems to be a covert operation.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, covert, as you
know, has a meaning of nonpublicized or
secret. Under any circumstances where we
feel that it's necessary to have a so-called
covert action of any kind overseas, then it
has to be decided in the White House.
The President is notified and approves it
personally. The Secretary of State and the
Attorney General are involved, and the
congressional intelligence committees are
also informed. And so, this is a very careful
prevention of any abuse if that should
ever become necessary.
PARITY FOR FARMERS
Q. Mr. President, could I ask you about
the farmers' demands for 100 percent
parity? They've been outside the White
been outside the White
House gates several times recently.
Have you ever stated that you are flatly
opposed to 100 percent parity, and if so—
if not, what are your views on that spe-
cific demand; secondly, what would 100
percent parity cost in terms of increasing
the Federal budget; and thirdly, what
would it cost the American consumer?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess, to guar-
antee 100 percent parity for every farm
product would cost $20 or $25 billion in
the Federal budget. It would also mean
that the price of American farm products
would be extraordinarily high and that
they would be noncompetitive in interna-
tional markets.
I think the request for or demand for
100 percent of parity is not well founded.
There needs to be some flexibility obvi-
ously, and that's what is provided under
the 1977 agricultural act.
This act, I believe, will go a long way
toward meeting the legitimate needs of
the American farmer. It only became ef-
fective the first day of October 1977. It's
not been effective yet for a crop season,
and we, in implementing that bill, will
have greatly expanded financial benefits
for the American farmer, increased sup-
port prices and target prices.
Also, we've had a very fine and suc-
cessful effort for foreign sales, and in es-
tablishing a reserve supply of feed grains
and food grains primarily held and con-
trolled by farmers, I think will bring some
stability to the marketplace and prevent
the wild fluctuations which hurt the farm-
er and consumer. But 100 percent of
parity, in my opinion, would be too costly.
TAX REDUCTION AND REFORM
Q. Mr. President, your Treasury Secre-
tary this morning told the Ways and
Means Committee that you would rather
swallow a cut in your tax cuts rather than
increase the $60 billion deficit. How are
you going to deal with Chairman Ull-
man's intention to trim the reforms and
probably trim the tax cuts, too?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know,
Chairman Ullman is obviously entitled to
his opinion, and I have never claimed that
we had complete compatibility of opinion
between myself and the chairmen of the
committees either in the House or Senate.
As I pointed out in my opening state-
ment, our entire economic package is a
well-balanced one, and without the tax
reforms which comprise about $9 billion,
it will not be possible to have even a $25
billion tax reduction without a very se-
rious additional Federal deficit. I think
the Federal deficit is enough. I wish it was
250
