May 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
But I thought in order to have a more
constructive session for me that I would
make a very few impromptu remarks and
then spend what time we have together
answering your questions. And just to be
sure we are completely fair, I'll ask the
speaker to recognize you for questions a
little bit later on.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I've been a member of a State legisla-
ture. My first elective office was to the
Georgia State senate, where I served two
terms. And I came to realize then the ex-
treme importance of State government,
the difficulties of public service, the cour-
age required to make decisions on contro-
versial issues, because almost every issue
that comes here is difficult to resolve. If a
matter is easy, it's solved in a family's
home, or perhaps in a neighborhood or
city hall or county courthouse. If it's much
more difficult, it comes to your desk and
eventually comes to the attention of the
Congress of the United States and the
President.
I know the pressures that come on
members of government to try to deal
fairly with their own constituents and still
look at statewide problems and needs, and
even those at the national and interna-
tional scene. We've dealt, in the last 16
months in Washington, with these kinds
of issues.
Tax reform sounds easy, but it is ex-
tremely difficult to hammer out with com-
peting interest groups, focusing their at-
tention on every Member of the Congress,
a means by which we can reduce taxes
on the American people, which are pres-
ently too high, and have a tax system that
is simple and fair.
The welfare system is condemned from
almost every vantage point, but it's almost
impossible to hammer out a welfare sys-
tem that gives needy people an adequate
income to preserve their human dignity
and at the same time can be a constant
inducement for those who are able to
work to go to work.
Our country is the greatest consumer of
energy on Earth, and we are also one of
the greatest producers of energy. The
Congress has been debating energy prob-
lems, natural gas pricing, deregulation for
30 years, and the focusing of pressures on
the Members of Congress in trying to give
our country a vision of what we can and
must do to cut down on extraordinary en-
ergy imports is almost an impossible task.
But they are making good progress.
In the last 16 months, we have done
well in cutting down the unemployment
rate, which was the crucial domestic issue
in January of 1977. We've added a net
increase, with your help, of 5½ million
jobs in our country, and the unemploy-
ment rate has been dropped from 8 per-
cent to 6 percent. But we are now faced
with a much more tenacious and difficult
problem of dealing with inflation. And
I'm determined, as President, to do all I
can in spite of the adverse political conse-
quences, and I believe the Congress will
join in with me in standing up against the
pressures from very benevolent groups,
people whom we care about, farmers-
I'm one of them-older people, veterans,
those interested in space, those interested
in better roads. But there's a limit to what
we can do at the Federal Government
level in financing these programs, but it
is very difficult to stand up against those
pressures and have a sound, businesslike
administration of a complicated govern-
ment.
We are faced at the national level with
additional responsibilities on defense, how
to keep our Nation strong, the strongest
on Earth, to provide for the rapidly
changing technology that gives the un-
foreseen challenges in the future. And you
have to anticipate those and correlate re-
search, development, demonstration pro-
grams, construction programs, to give us
adequate weapons; at the same time seek
988
