Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Jan. 24
certainly will be by the end of next week,
to introduce legislation, our first piece of
legislation relating to the charters. We
see that as a starting point.
The long period of time it took to bring
this into being, I think, demonstrates the
very complex and difficult problems that
we are faced with. So, I'm sure we're
going to have the same kind of coopera-
tion between the Intelligence Community
and the executive that we've had pre-
viously. And I believe that we can develop
the kind of charters that will bring about
the assurances that all of us want.
Thank you, sir, very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Senator
Huddleston said that never before in
history has an Executive order by the
President had so much congressional
input. I doubt if ever before in history
an Executive order has had so much input
from the President. [Laughter] I have
sent it back three or four times to be
redrafted so I could understand it.
[Laughter] I think now it's in very good
shape.
I'd like to call on Congressman
Murphy. He has the same responsibility
in the House as Dee Huddleston does in
the Senate, the drafting of a new charter.
RepresentativE MURPHY. Thank
you, Mr. President. On behalf of the com-
mittee, I'd like to congratulate you, Mr.
President, on keeping your promise that
you made during your campaign that
would bring the intelligence agencies into
some meaningful order under this Execu-
tive order. I'd also like to thank Attorney
General Bell and his staff.
you
We have already begun our work on
the national surveillance act. And as my
chairman, Mr. Boland, has reminded us,
we are behind. I think that's an admon-
ishment to me. We will catch up.
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I wanted
to call on, also, Senator Mathias, who's
been a great help to us. Senator Gold-
water has been the vice chairman of the
committee for a long time. He's not here
today.
SENATOR MATHIAS. Mr. President, as I
stood here this morning, I thought a little
bit about the advice of Speaker Reed, who
defined the duties of the minority as to
draw your pay and help make a quorum.
[Laughter] I want to assure you that the
minority in this case is going to do more
than that, that we're going to work very
hard on this statutory charter and to try
to develop in the spirit in which you have
started us out this morning.
I think it needs to be said that we want
it to be not only an effective instrument
gence and that we want it to provide the
which provides us with the best intelli-
kind of restraints which ensure the rule
of law in our country, but we also want
it to be a shield for the men and women
who devote their lives to the intelligence
services and to give them the kind of guid-
ance within which they can develop their
own careers.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
REPRESENTATIVE WILSON. I'm again
the minority on our side, but we are very
much interested in this Executive order.
I commend you for having taken all of
the different intelligence responsibilities
from various agencies and putting them
under one executive head, which has been
one of the problems we have seen in the
past. And I predict that we'll come along
and support you continuously in the fu-
ture.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to say I won't
call anyone else from the executive
branch, because you will be getting a
briefing in detail from the National Secu-
rity Council, Department of Defense, the
193
