Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
June 29
events for declassification or review and
any additional authorized markings, in
accordance with Sections 2-2 and 2-301
below. A single marking may be used for
documents based on multiple sources.
2-2. Classification Guides.
2-201. Classification guides used to di-
rect derivative classification shall specifi-
cally identify the information to be
classified. Each classification guide shall
specifically indicate how the designations,
time limits, markings, and other require-
ments of this Order are to be applied to
the information.
2-202. Each such guide shall be ap-
proved personally and in writing by an
agency head listed in Section 1-2 or by an
official with Top Secret classification au-
thority. Such approval constitutes an orig-
inal classification decision.
2-3. New Material.
2-301. New material that derives its
classification from information classified
on or after the effective date of this
Order shall be marked with the declassi-
fication date or event, or the date for re-
view, assigned to the source information.
2-302. New material that derives its
classification from information classified
under prior Orders shall be treated as
follows:
(a) If the source material bears a de-
classification date or event twenty years
or less from the date of origin, that date
or event shall be carried forward on the
new material.
(b) If the source material bears no de-
classification date or event or is marked
for declassification beyond twenty years,
the new material shall be marked with a
date for review for declassification at
or event for declassification or is marked
for declassification beyond thirty years,
the new material shall be marked for re-
view for declassification at thirty years
from the date of original classification of
the source material.
SECTION 3. DECLASSIFICATION AND
DOWNGRADING.
3-1. Declassification Authority.
3-101. The authority to declassify or
downgrade information classified under
this or prior Orders shall be exercised
only as specified in Section 3-1.
3-102. Classified information may be
declassified or downgraded by the official
who authorized the original classification
if that official is still serving in the same
position, by a successor, or by a supervi-
sory official of either.
3-103. Agency heads named in Sec-
tion 1-2 shall designate additional offi-
cials at the lowest practicable echelons to
exercise declassification and downgrading
authority.
3-104. If the Director of the Informa-
tion Security Oversight Office determines
that information is classified in violation
of this Order, the Director may require
the information to be declassified by the
agency that originated the classification.
Any such decision by the Director may
be appealed to the National Security
Council. The information shall remain
classified until the appeal is decided or
until one year from the date of the Di-
rector's decision, whichever occurs first.
3-105. The provisions of this Order
relating to declassification shall also ap-
ply to agencies which, under the terms of
this Order, do not have original classifi-
cation authority but which had such au-
twenty years from the date of original thority under prior Orders.
classification of the source material.
(c) If the source material is foreign
government information bearing no date
3-2. Transferred Information.
3-201. For classified information
transferred in conjunction with a trans-
1199
