Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 17
tion. What benefits do you feel that this
will have on our educational system?
THE PRESIDENT. There is already a bill
in the government organization com-
mittee under Senator Ribicoff, to set up
a separate department of education.
When I first went into government, I was
on a local school board. I ran for the
Georgia Senate, and I was the chairman
of the university committee and in the
education committee.
When I was Governor, I would say I
spent 25 percent of my time, at least,
working on improvements in education.
Since I've been President, we have a
Cabinet meeting every Monday morning
for several hours. And then I meet with
my Cabinet officers, two or three of them
individually each day.
I doubt that I've spent a half of 1 per-
cent of my time dealing with educational
matters as President. Education is buried
deep within the same department as
health and welfare, which are the more
dominant matters of interest, at least in
Washington. And I believe that in that
process, education is neglected.
There's a tremendous opportunity in
our country to get back to basic educa-
tion. We've got too many people, I think,
going into the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,
and eighth grades that can't even read
and write. And we've got too many voca-
tional and technical schools, career train-
ing programs, high schools, even colleges
turning out students that are not accu-
rately matched in their learning capabil-
ities with the jobs that are available when
they graduate.
There's very little correlation between
jobs that need to be filled and the product
of our educational institutions.
I think that this is also a matter that
ties very closely to employment, in the
comprehensive education and training
programs, you know, working with both
private employers and also with the State
and local governments as well as the Fed-
eral Government, where you can have a
combination of training and education.
I've just advocated recently a tremendous
increase in scholarships and loans, grants
and work-study programs for college
students.
The Federal Government is just now
getting involved in that process. We also
have a real need to tie together the train-
ing and education programs for the men-
tally afflicted Americans, or those who are
slow learners, and in many ways I think
the Federal Government ought to give
more attention to education.
I think the control of the education sys-
tem ought to be at the State and local
government. I don't want to get the Fed-
eral Government into controlling of any
colleges or high schools or grammar
schools or kindergartens. But I just would
like to have as President a much more sure
sense that I'm devoting an adequate
amount of my own time to bringing about
a raising of educational standards in our
country.
We spend too much money and get too
little education benefits back from it, and
I think a separate education department
or agency with that one single responsi-
bility would give education the high visi-
bility on a national level and the voice of
the President promoting better education,
that I don't think will ever be possible
with education buried in Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
WOMEN IN DECISION MAKING POSITIONS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Mary
Smith, and I'm from Bangor.
During your campaign for President,
you made a firm commitment to put more
women in decisionmaking positions should
you become President of the United
353
