Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
Feb. 7
to those qualities of compassion, under-
standing and selflessness which identify
the Red Cross spirit of volunteerism.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America
and Honorary Chairman of the American
National Red Cross, do hereby designate
March 1978, as Red Cross Month. I urge
all Americans to give generous support to
the work of their local Red Cross chapter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this seventh day of Feb-
ruary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-eight, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and second.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:45 p.m., February 7, 1978]
Red Cross Month, 1978
Memorandum From the President.
February 7, 1978
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I have again proclaimed March as Red
Cross Month to remind all Americans of
the myriad services the American Red
Cross provides each day in communities
across the nation.
During the past year, as disaster after
disaster disrupted lives and brought de-
struction to widespread areas of the na-
tion, Red Cross volunteers helped ease the
suffering of their neighbors. The Red
Cross Blood Program expanded last year
to play an even more important role in
our daily lives by providing life-saving and
life-sustaining blood and blood products
to more and more ill and injured Ameri-
cans. Through Red Cross nursing, first
aid, water and boating safety instruction,
we have the opportunity to train ourselves
to care for the infirm.
Finally, our men and women in the
Armed Forces, veterans and their fam-
ilies look to the Red Cross for help in
coping with their emergency problems.
The Red Cross is a vital part of Amer-
ica. I urge all civilian employees of the
Federal Government and members of
the Armed Forces to support this essen-
tial effort through voluntary services, do-
nation of blood and financial support in
their home communities.
JIMMY CARTER
National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration
Nomination of James P. Walsh To Be
Deputy Administrator. February 7, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate James P. Walsh, of Wash-
ington, D.C., to be Deputy Administrator
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. He would replace How-
ard W. Pollock, resigned.
Walsh was born December 28, 1944, in
North Bend, Oreg. He received an A.B.
from Stanford University in 1967, and a
J.D. (1970) and LL.M. (1971) from the
University of Washington.
In 1971 and 1972, Walsh was assistant
attorney general of the State of Washing-
ton, where his duties included serving as
counsel to the Oceanographic Commis-
sion of Washington. From 1972 to 1977,
he was staff counsel to the U.S. Senate
Commerce Committee and counsel to the
Senate Ocean Policy Study.
Since 1977 Walsh has been general
counsel of the Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation and
director of the National Ocean Policy
Study.
285
