June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1978
work immediately on a joint effort with
the city of Knoxville, the State of Ten-
nessee, and the private sector to make
available appropriate Federal resources
in a coordinated fashion. Expo 82 will
seek to dramatize the national and inter-
national importance of our energy prob-
lems and possible solutions to those
problems."
Jack Watson will make this the first
specific project of the Council, and the
lead agencies involved will be Commerce
(including the United States Travel
Service), HUD, State, and Energy.
United States Court of Claims
Nomination of Edward S. Smith To Be an
Associate Judge. June 30, 1978
The President today announced that he
will nominate Edward S. Smith, of Balti-
more, Md., to be an Associate Judge of
the United States Court of Claims. He
would replace Byron Skelton, retired.
Smith was born March 27, 1919, in
Birmingham, Ala. He received a B.A.
(1941) and LL.B. (1947) from the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He served in the U.S.
Navy from 1941 to 1946.
Smith practiced law from 1947 to 1961.
From 1961 to 1963, he was a trial at-
torney with the Tax Division of the Jus-
tice Department. Since 1963 he has
practiced law in Baltimore.
Joint Chiefs of Staff
Remarks at Ceremonies Honoring
the Chairman and Two Members.
June 30, 1978
Secretary Brown, other Americans as-
sembled here with a total commitment to
defend and preserve our Nation:
It's an honor for me to participate in
this ceremony. Secretary Brown said that
we come to honor these three men. But
they have and will honor us with their
superb service and with a very proper
balancing between a desire for peace and
a willingness to maintain strength.
I taught Sunday school this past
weekend, and one of the points I made to
my class was that quite often we mis-
judge others. I asked them to name the
group who in their brief encounters with
me as President, when the uppermost
thought on their mind needs to be im-
parted very rapidly, which group most
often said, "God bless you, Mr. Presi-
dent," or "We're praying for you." And
the class guessed all kinds of groups, and
the proper answer was the military.
Military families are the first ones who
suffer when war comes. At the time of
enlistment, their lives are offered for their
country. Those offers are not retracted or
canceled.
I'm very proud to be able to partici-
pate this afternoon in a ceremony to
acknowledge the qualities of three men,
qualities which exemplify, historically,
American military service: superb train-
ing, preparation for war in times of peace,
experience derived from complicated in-
terrelationships between men and women
and the other elements that comprise
military capability-personal character,
honesty, integrity, reliability, dedication,
patriotism—the qualities of leadership to
inspire others to emulate the finest quali-
ties among those who head our military
forces; and an important but quiet reali-
zation of political truths, so that interna-
tional and national politics in a nonparti-
san way can be understood and accom-
modated and even used.
I have been privileged to work with
General David Jones the last 18 months.
I know about his background and his ex-
1218
