Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 25 [372]
372 Radio Address on the Federal Responsibility to
Education. October 25, 1972
Good afternoon:
I want to talk to you today about an
issue that has tremendous impact on pres-
ent-day America and that will play a
decisive role in shaping the America of
the future-education.
Americans today are the freest, best edu-
cated people in the world. We must keep
it that way, and one of the surest means
is to keep our educational system strong
and free.
Money, of course, is part of the an-
swer. Under this Administration the Fed-
eral Government has increased its con-
tribution to education by over 70 percent,
from $9 billion in fiscal year 1969 to $15.7
billion in the budget for fiscal year 1973.
But money is only part of the answer.
Too often over the years, the American
taxpayer has seen millions of tax dollars
poured into education programs that did
not work because not enough thought and
planning went into them. Much of the
resistance to the imposition of more taxes
today is the result of rightful dissatisfac-
tion at the way present tax revenues are
being spent.
The roots of the taxpayer revolt lie not
in selfishness, but in a sensible refusal to
pay more for Government programs that
have failed to meet the needs and wishes
of the people in an effective way.
It is very easy for politicians to call for
new millions of dollars to be allocated for
every new education spending proposal
that spins out of an ivory tower. The
myth that all problems can be solved by
throwing money at them is not easily dis-
pelled. But the President of the United
States must carefully weigh the cost of
new proposals against their merits.
And there are times when he must have
the strength to say "no" for the sake of
the American taxpayer. Three times I
have said "no" to excessive education
spending legislation. In each case I did so
because I believe the added tax burden
would have far outweighed the benefits
to be derived by the program.
In each case, the question was not
whether to increase worthwhile spend-
ing on education, but how much to in-
crease it. I believe that in those three cases
the amounts proposed by the Congress
were more than the public could afford
to pay, and the amounts I proposed were
in balance with both our educational
needs and the economic well-being of the
American taxpayer.
Now, here are some of the important
achievements which have resulted during
this Administration, following the philos-
ophy I have just outlined:
For younger children:
-We have increased funding for early
childhood education projects to over a
half billion dollars.
-We have more than doubled aid to
elementary and secondary schools.
-We have improved the education of
disadvantaged preschool children in their
first 5 years of life through the efforts of
the new Office of Child Development and
a twentyfold increase in food assistance
program funding.
-And we have given greater support
and encouragement to successful educa-
tional innovation, including television
programs like "Sesame Street" and "The
Electric Company."
For high school students:
-In addition to increasing Federal aid,
1027
