Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [314]
in high school, let your minds become as
open as they possibly can to the wonder-
ful world around you. Learn about your
country. Learn about this political process.
Participate in it. Oh, I don't mean by that
that all of you are going to run for office.
After all, the Congressman doesn't have
any opposition this year. He wouldn't
want all of you running against him.
[Laughter]
I am simply suggesting this though:
Some of you will run for office, and some
of you
will win and some of you will lose.
I was saying to President Gebhart a few
moments ago, I said, "Who ran against
you?"
He said, "Nobody."
I have never been so lucky. [Laughter]
Let me tell you an interesting thing. In all
the biographies that have been written-
you know, once they write biographies of
people who become President, they forget
all the times that they may have lost and
they only write about the times they have
won. You think, oh, it was easy sledding
going to the top.
It is never that way. When I was in high
school in my junior year, or early in the
senior, I ran for student body president
and I lost. So you see, you win some, you
lose some. The important thing is to try.
The important thing, of course, is not to
run for every office, but the important
thing is whether you are going after a
job or whether you are going after an office
or whether you are trying to make some
project in which you are interested suc-
ceed-when you do have a failure, when
you
do have a setback, don't give up, keep
trying.
That is what has made America the
great country it is. We are a people that is
impatient wherever we find anything that
is inequitable in our country, and we want
to change it. We are also a people that is
very ambitious. And that is a good thing.
We are competitive. We want to win.
As I was coming in here, for example, I
suppose somebody knows that I am from
Washington, that I sort of pull for the
Redskins. This fellow reached over and
he grabbed me and he said, "The Cow-
boys are going to win it. The Cowboys are
going to win it." [Laughter]
You know, I kind of liked that. I mean,
I like his saying it. I have to be for my
team. But the point that I make is: I urge
you, be for your school, be for your team,
be for your State, but above all, be for
your country, for America. That is what
we need, that kind of spirit.
Now, just a few words perhaps remi-
niscing into background. You know, when
I remember when I was in high school and
college, we would get these older people
up and we would sit there and wonder,
"When are they going to
going to finish?”
[Laughter] Because they try to give us ad-
vice and we wonder about it. And some-
times we got a little impatient with our
parents—“Oh, ma, I know all about that.
You haven't read the latest books," and
all that and so on.
Well, it is a pretty good thing that you
haven't. [Laughter] But whatever the case
may be, could I just, without being per-
haps a bit presumptuous, leave you with
some thoughts that made a very great im-
pression upon me when I was your age.
First, respect your teachers. I met so
many of them as I came in.
Incidentally, there are thousands of
people outside and there is one thing this
school needs, it needs a great big new
building that will take care of all the peo-
ple—and they are going to get it, I hear.
People often ask me to measure what
is success and what is failure. On the
891
