Richard Nixon, 1972
Aug. 24 [267]
to spend more than they need to.
And so naturally there is honest differ-
ence of opinion as to how much we ought
to spend in order to have an adequate na-
tional defense. I want to talk to you about
it now with those thoughts in mind.
How much is enough? What do we
really need?
Let me begin by saying something that
is quite obvious, and that is that when we
speak before a group like the American
Legion, you know from personal experi-
ence the importance of keeping America
strong.
I think perhaps the most eloquent state-
ment in recent times in that respect was
by General MacArthur in his very famous
speech on the plain at West Point, "Duty,
Honor, Country." If you haven't read it,
read it again. It is one of the greatest
speeches perhaps ever made on national
defense, and also on what is great about
America. About the soldier, he told them,
those young men on the plain, "above all
other people," he said, the soldier "prays
for peace, for he must suffer and bear the
deepest wounds and scars of war."
That is something we forget sometimes.
We think that a veterans organization is
primarily interested in the problems of
war. I have found that veterans organi-
zations have the strongest commitment to
peace, because you know what war is, and
you are for strength because you want to
avoid more war.
Others may talk of the dream of peace
and the horrors of war, but no one under-
stands them better than you, you who
have to pay the toll. It is the military man,
as much as the poet or the politician, who
is the guardian of peace when it comes,
and is the restorer of peace when it is
challenged.
History is strewn with the ruins of coun-
tries that sometimes, for the most idealistic
of reasons, lost the will to defend them-
selves and ultimately lost the will to sur-
vive at all.
George Washington stated it also very
well, perhaps it has not been surpassed,
when he said, "To be prepared for war
is one of the most effectual means of pre-
serving peace." Let us not forget that
warning of his, because the stakes now for
us and for the rest of the world are in-
finitely greater than it was in that early
period when the United States was a very
strong country in terms of its own spirit,
but very weak militarily, and not a great
factor in the world.
Washington was not alone in his con-
viction that it takes a strong America to
keep a free America. Lincoln, Wilson,
Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin Roosevelt,
Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John
Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson-each time we
have found that they have spoken on this
subject-always reflected in eloquent
terms the need for a strong national
defense.
I am convinced those are the views of
a majority of Americans, whatever their
partisan affiliations. I feel, of course, that
there are naturally some small antimilitary
activists who totally disagree. They have
rights to their opinions.
As I will point out, I believe that when
we consider what the goal is-and the goal
is peace-that it is certainly irrefutable
that we need the strong national defense
if we are going to reach the goal.
That is why my principle, like yours, is
that the United States must never have a
defense which is second to that of any
other nation in the world.
I
I
say that for a number of reasons which,
suppose, might be open to question, but
one of them is not that it is a matter of
797
