[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
of us can confidently seek a more balanced
and productive relationship with our
adversaries.
Last year also brought an economic
shock to the U.S.-Japanese relationship.
In last year's Report, I expressed satisfac-
tion that Japan recognized the need to
liberalize its controls on imports and for-
eign investment, and confidence that in
the months ahead we would be able to re-
solve our bilateral economic difficulties.
Our experience in the first half of 1971,
however, showed that progress would be
slower than we had hoped. In the mean-
time, the need for greater reciprocity in
our economic relationship became ever
more urgent and necessary. By the middle
of 1971, adjustments in our vast economic
relationship had become a pressing re-
quirement of U.S. national policy. They
could no longer be delayed.
In the International Economic Policy
chapter of this Report, I have described
the underlying problems inherent in world
trading and monetary arrangements
which had been created in an era of un-
challenged U.S. economic superiority.
The regained economic vigor of our allies
had created unavoidable pressures for re-
form. To our allies, including Japan, the
shortcomings in the existing system ap-
peared less significant than the hazards of
changing it. To the U.S., our deteriorating
trade and payments situation left no
choice but to take the steps necessary to
bring about a multilateral settlement of
outstanding issues. Our imbalances with
Japan were by no means unique, but they
did reflect the magnitude of our concern.
-By midyear, Japan's favorable trade
balance with the U.S. had reached a
rate double that of any earlier year,
accounting for a significant measure
of our payments problems and threat-
ening further difficulties for our
domestic economy.
-Impelled by an increasingly anachro-
nistic exchange rate, Japan's soaring
global trade surplus exceeded half a
billion dollars each month from
March to August. Substantial adjust-
ment in the parity of the yen, set in
1949, seemed to us indispensable.
Our efforts to persuade our allies of the
need for reform had been patient-and
unfruitful. On August 15 we announced
a series of unilateral measures. They were
harsh, but they were required in order to
establish the basis for a multilateral solu-
tion to what had become an intolerable
problem.
We recognized that these measures
would have a great impact on all of our
major trading partners. We knew that the
impact would be particularly strong in
Japan, because of the dimensions of our
commerce with each other and because of
Japan's strong dependence on foreign
trade. However, it was for precisely those
reasons that we could no longer delay in
working out together a more equitable
monetary and trading relationship.
The past six months have brought sub-
stantial progress toward that goal. In De-
cember, a fundamental and general re-
alignment of currency values took place,
and Japan made a major contribution to
that essential step. In a series of bilateral
talks-particularly the September meet-
ing of the Japan-United States Commit-
tee on Trade and Economic Affairs-
progress was made toward reducing trade
barriers. These discussions are continuing.
In October, we passed a milestone in
our trade relations with Japan by the
agreement to moderate-but still per-
236
