[286] Sept. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
reach of urban areas. In 1971 I sent a
second major environmental message,
again proposing comprehensive water
pollution control legislation, which would
allow the Nation to achieve clean water
without causing inflationary pressures. I
also recommended new initiatives to con-
trol ocean dumping, pesticides, toxic sub-
stances, noise,
noise, strip mining, and
powerplant siting. In a third major en-
vironmental message in 1972 I urged a
number of additional measures, includ-
ing a tax on harmful emissions of sulfur
oxides, controls over underground dis-
posal of toxic pollutants and sediment
from construction, and a measure to pro-
tect endangered species.
These many proposals I have made, if
enacted, would provide the authority to
protect and preserve our natural environ-
ment for decades. But the Congress has
failed to perform its part of the partner-
ship. Legislation needed now languishes
in the Congress, mired in inaction and
jurisdictional squabbles.
Most of my clean water and other
environmental proposals have now been
before the Congress for over a year and
a half, and more than 20 of them are still
pending. Every day of inaction sees more
of our land despoiled, our water further
polluted, noise levels mounting, and
harmful substances spreading throughout
the environment. The members of the
Senate and House are simply not keep-
ing pace with the concern of citizens
throughout the Nation for positive action.
In some cases, the quality of the environ-
ment is taking second place to Senators'
concerns over which Senatorial commit-
tee has jurisdiction over a particular
problem.
Last week, I referred to the wide range
of measures that have been "stuck in
the mud" of the 92d Congress. This
metaphor, unfortunately, is particularly
applicable to action on my environmental
proposals.
The Congress still has an opportunity
to rid itself of this label and to write
an historic record of environmental
achievement. In the short time left in this
Congress, most of these bills can be
enacted.
We cannot afford to allow our price-
less natural heritage to become a hostage
to partisanship. Restoring and protecting
the environment is not a Democratic or
Republican issue. All Americans recog-
nize the importance of this endeavor.
To the American people, I pledge that
the pressures of this political season will
in no way diminish my Administration's
sense of urgency in environmental action.
But the Congress must also fulfill its part
of the partnership. I again urge the Con-
gress to act without further delay on these
critically needed proposals to protect and
restore the American environment.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Francisco, Calif.
On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the environmental legis-
lative program.
A White House announcement of the trans-
fer of certain lands to State and local govern-
ments for park and recreational use under the
Legacy of Parks program and a fact sheet on
the property review program were also released.
The announcement is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
8, p. 1346).
856
