[273] Aug. 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
behalf of Mrs. Nixon, my wife Pat, and
myself, our appreciation to all of you. I
would like to do it in three really different
ways.
First, as I met all of you coming through
the line tonight, I thought back over the
years, and it has been a long time. Many
of you here won't even remember, but
some of you were here then, and I recall
1946, 1950, '52, '56, '60, '62 '68, and here
it is '72 and you are still with us. We thank
you very much.
I remember, too, that I wanted this
opportunity to express special apprecia-
tion to those who have entertained at the
White House. We know that it is a great,
certainly a burden to have to pick up
everything and come to the White House
and entertain, and then not even be able
to deduct it from your taxes. [Laughter]
But nevertheless, on the other hand, we
have been most grateful. Many of you
have been there, and this is the only cam-
paign promise I am going to make to-
night: Anybody who hasn't been invited
to the White House to entertain, in the
next 4 years you will be there, too.
Second, I wanted to express apprecia-
tion for those who participated in our con-
vention, for those who have participated
in the various rallies and so forth that we
have had, over and over again. I know
that sometimes we arrive, you think we
aren't even aware of what you have done,
but I know those audiences really
wouldn't be up to have to listen to what I
have to say unless you had been there
before. In other words, you warm them
up, and that is certainly most appreciated.
But beyond that, those that have enter-
tained at the White House, those that have
participated in conventions, I simply
wanted to say that, speaking to all of you,
and to everybody in this whole community
that we call Hollywood, I would like to
express appreciation as an individual, and
also speaking as the President of the
United States, for what you, the people of
Hollywood, have done for America and
have done for the world.
I can speak with some feeling on this
point. Let me begin by saying that my
wife and I like movies. We like them on
television. We fortunately now have our
own projection set in the White House.
[Laughter] That is one of the reasons I
ran again. I just can't stand those com-
mercials on the Late Show. [Laughter]
But we have seen many movies. We
haven't yet shown an X-rated movie in
the White House. We had an "R" one
night, and I said, "That is as far as you
can go."
Be that as it may, we have seen some
of the old ones and some of the new ones,
and we like them. Now, I am going to say
something that Charlton Heston,¹ I know,
will appreciate, and also his successor, and
all of those who are interested in seeing
that this great industry stays alive and re-
mains strong. Any of you who may be
reporting this will consider this to be a
little bit jingoistic and pro-American. If
so, make the most of it.
But I like my movies made in Holly-
wood, made in America, and I don't mean
that I can't appreciate a good foreign
movie, or a foreign movie star or starlet, or
whatever the case may be. But I think
that the motion picture industry—it
started here, it has grown up here—this is
something that is typically American and
it is something that means a lot in present-
ing America to the world.
Oh, I know, we hear a lot of talk about
¹ Charlton Heston, actor and president of the
Screen Actors Guild 1966-71.
822
