[100] Mar. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
people, mostly elderly, will be provided
this fiscal year under HUD's nursing and
intermediate care facility programs-and
nearly 18,000 such accommodations will
be provided next year. Finally, a large
number of elderly citizens will benefit
from other housing funded by this year's
record number of nearly 600,000 subsi-
dized housing unit reservations. Clearly,
we are making substantial progress in this
important area.
A number of other administrative steps
have also been taken to ensure that this
new housing is responsive to the special
needs of the elderly. For example, Secre-
tary Romney recently announced new
guidelines for the Section 236 subsidized
rental program for lower income elderly
tenants. These guidelines will help ensure
greater variety in building types, includ-
ing highrise structures, and more flexi-
bility in their locations. As a result of
these guidelines, older persons will find
such housing arrangements even better
suited to their particular needs.
The Department of Housing and Ur-
ban Development has also issued initial
guidelines for the new Section 106(a)
program which will provide technical as-
sistance to non-profit sponsors of low and
moderate income housing-including
housing which is specially designed for
the elderly.
In addition, the Department will ex-
tend the mortgage maturity for its Fed-
eral Housing Administration insured
nursing home program up to a maximum
of 40 years. This decision will not only
reduce monthly occupancy charges to
patients, but it will also enable sponsors
of residential housing to "package" resi-
dential and nursing home complexes more
easily. The proximity of these facilities
will permit elderly persons temporarily to
vacate their residential units for short
term nursing care-and at the same time
remain close to family, friends, and the en-
vironment to which they are accustomed.
I have also directed the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to
work with the Administration on Aging
in developing training programs dealing
with the management of housing for the
elderly.
The Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
ministration has undertaken an intensive
research effort to determine factors
which encourage or inhibit crime in resi-
dential settings and to develop total se-
curity systems to reduce crime in housing
projects. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development plans to use the
results of this effort in its housing pro-
grams. I have also made grant funds
available through the Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration for reducing
crime in areas housing older persons. Al-
ready, in two cities, funds have been
granted specifically for this purpose.
Crime is an especially serious problem
for our older citizens. Through these and
other measures, we will continue our
strong effort to meet this challenge.
Two years ago my task force on aging
observed that "older persons would make
greater use of many of the services society
intends them to receive if these services
were made more accessible to them. One
reason that the number of senior centers
has increased so fast is because centers
facilitate the packaging, marketing, and
delivery of services." The task force also
noted that, "although the number of sen-
ior centers has rapidly grown in recent
years, centers are still too limited in num-
ber to reach more than a fraction of the
older population." In my judgment, a
natural location for a senior center is a
480
