Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 21 [97]
posed the creation of a Special Action
Office for Drug Abuse Prevention. Because
time was so critical in the fight against
drug abuse, I determined that immediate
steps had to be taken pending passage of
the proposed legislation. As a temporary
measure, I therefore established the Spe-
cial Action Office for Drug Abuse Preven-
tion by Executive order [11599] and
charged it with the responsibility for over-
seeing all Federal programs-excluding
law enforcement, international diplomacy,
and intelligence gathering-related to the
control of drug abuse. I appointed Dr.
Jerome Jaffe to direct its activities.
A RECORD OF ACCOMPLISHMENT
Since the creation of the Special Action
Office, substantial progress has been made
toward controlling and reducing drug
abuse in America.
-The Special Action Office is working
to ensure that treatment and rehabilita-
tion facilities will be available to all who
need them, that lives will not be lost be-
cause a person who sought treatment
found it unavailable. The number of fed-
erally funded drug treatment programs
has increased from 78 last June, when
operations began, to 166 today. I said last
June that we would make available as
much money as could be used effectively
to fight the drug menace in America. In
1969, when I took office, Federal obliga-
tions for drug law enforcement and anti-
drug abuse programs were at the $80
million level. By fiscal year 1972, they were
$474 million, and I have asked for an-
other increase of $120 million for this
effort in fiscal year 1973, bringing the
total to $594 million.
-The Special Action Office, working
with the Office of Management and
Budget, has examined the budgets and
evaluated the policies of all civilian Fed-
eral agencies involved in drug abuse
prevention. It has established specific goals
for each of these agencies and has recom-
mended adjustments in their budgets to
match their responsibilities. A control sys-
tem to oversee these efforts is presently
under development.
-The Special Action Office has worked
to eliminate the severe shortage of per-
sonnel trained for work in drug treatment,
rehabilitation, and education programs. A
National Training Center has been
planned to train individuals who have re-
sponsibility for creating and operating
community drug control programs. These
people will be taught, in turn, to train
others in their communities, and the
pyramid effect of this approach will result,
by the end of 1972, in an annual drug
abuse training capacity of more than
16,000 men and women in federally
funded programs.
-The Special Action Office is develop-
ing a program of technical assistance to
help State and local governments develop
their own capacities to deal with drug
problems. This project involves, in part,
an expanded information effort within the
National Clearinghouse for Drug Abuse
Information, including a computerized
retrieval system providing easy access to
information about on-going drug abuse
activities.
-In a direct application of drug con-
trol procedures at the Federal level, the
Special Action Office, working with the
Department of Defense, established a
massive screening, treatment, and reha-
bilitation program to assist armed services
personnel in Vietnam and elsewhere.
Rapid and appropriate action in this area
has gone a long way toward arresting a
455
