[134] Apr. 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
this war. Reasonable and honest and
decent Americans can disagree about
whether we should have gotten into Viet-
nam. They can disagree about how the
war has been conducted, disagree about
who is at fault now, and so forth, but let's
just look at the record as it is at the
present time.
Since I have come into office we have
withdrawn half a million men from Viet-
nam. We have offered everything that
could be offered except to impose a Com-
munist government on the people of
South Vietnam, and their answer has been
a massive invasion of South Vietnam by
the North.
Now, under these circumstances, in-
stead of the critics criticizing brave Ameri-
cans flying dangerous air missions, hitting
military targets in North Vietnam and
military targets only, instead of criticizing
them trying to prevent a Communist take-
over, I think they ought to direct a little
criticism to the Communists that are try-
ing to keep this war going. That is what
they ought to be doing.
TRADE WITH CHINA AND RUSSIA
[7.] Q. What are the possibilities of
trade with China and Russia, as you now
see it?
THE PRESIDENT. Looking at both of
these countries, we must realize and I
know that there are many here who have
traveled certainly to Russia, and to other
Communist countries, although very few
perhaps have been to China, at least in
recent years and looking at both of these
countries realistically, as far as China is
concerned, while we have now opened
the door for a new relationship insofar as
trade is involved, realistically, the amount
of trade that the United States will have
with the People's Republic of China will
be considerably limited over a period of
time.
The Japanese, for example, have found
that out. They, of course, are much closer
to Mainland China, and they have been
trying to trade with them over a period of
years, and yet they find that the amount
of trade that they are able to have with the
People's Republic of China is, frankly,
much less than they expected when they
began to open trade up.
We should not expect too much in the
short range. We could expect a consider-
able amount further down the road.
Now, with the Soviet Union, this, of
course, will be a major subject that will
be discussed at the summit meeting. There
will be considerable opportunities for
trade with the Soviet Union.
The Secretary of Agriculture, Mr.
Butz, was there discussing the possibilities
of trade insofar as agricultural products
are concerned-the selling of some of our
grain to the Soviet Union.
We have also had some discussions be-
tween the Secretary of Commerce, Mr.
Stans and Mr. Peterson, now the new
Secretary of Commerce, is discussing this
with the Russian delegation, and we ex-
pect more trade opportunities to develop
with the Soviet Union.
Realistically, however, we must recog-
nize that where you have a Communist
country dealing with a capitalist country,
or non-Communist country, the possibil-
ities of trade are seriously limited because
of an inability to have a method for
financing it.
I know I have heard some American
businessmen say, wouldn't it be great if we
could just sell just a few consumer items
to 800 million Chinese. That is fine, but
what are they going to sell us, and how
564
