[159] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Minister and the Soviet Minister of Trade
to the United States-their meetings with
Mr. Peterson and Mr. Flanigan-and of
course, I have had meetings with both of
them.
In this area, having just met with Con-
gressional leaders discussing such matters
as most-favored-nation and the others, the
matter of credits, I would say that the
chances for some positive results are good,
not certain, but certainly good.
You will be wanting to follow that very
closely during the course of our visit there.
A third area that is worth your watch-
ing is the area of cooperation in space. In
this respect, I was looking over the speech
that I made to the Soviet people on televi-
sion in 1959. I had forgotten that I said it,
as a matter of fact, and most things are
well forgotten that you have said, but, in
any event, I said at that time-those 12
who are here who went to the Soviet
Union on that trip will remember-I said
let us go to the Moon together.
I would not like to suggest and would
not suggest that we are going to discuss,
"Let us go to the Moon together, let us go
to Mars together." But I do know that
considerable progress has been made over
the past several months with regard to
cooperation in terms of the exploration of
space. We are going to try to see a culmi-
nation of that progress in this area.
By mentioning these three, I do not
mean that they are exclusive. I do mean
that they are areas that perhaps offer
considerable promise.
As far as other agenda items are con-
cerned, both sides have submitted items
for the agenda. The agenda is agreed. It
will be primarily bilateral. I emphasize
that all of the talks that we have will take
place looking to the interests of each
country vis-a-vis the other, and not at
the expense of or in derogation of any
country's interest toward its allies or other
countries in the world.
On the other hand, there will be dis-
cussion on the agenda on such items as
Vietnam and other areas of the world
where the United States and the Soviet
Union do have sometimes conflicting
interests.
I will not go beyond that in discussing
those areas because only the results of our
conversations will determine whether
progress is possible. We are quite far
apart, as you know, in several of those
areas. I can only say that there will be an
open, free, and frank discussion building
upon discussions that we have had previ-
ously in these areas.
Now a word about the preparation. I
mentioned the preparation and I do not
want to indicate that it has all been done
simply at the Presidential level. I have
had, as you know, both by correspondence
and through other contacts, a very great
volume of exchange of views directly with
Mr. Brezhnev. That exchange of views, I
think, even though I met him only briefly
in 1959, means that both he and I will
start, at least, on a basis where we under-
stand what our differences are and there-
fore will be able to come to grips quickly
with the problems that we, and perhaps
only we, can solve at the highest level.
In addition to that, the State Depart-
ment, of course, has had major respon-
sibilities in certain areas; the Department
of Commerce, the Department of Agricul-
ture, the Science Adviser, our NASA peo-
ple, a number of others, all have been
working toward the time when this meet-
ing would take place.
Having in mind the fact that if we do
604
