Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 8 [79]
-Classified information furnished in
confidence by a foreign government or in-
ternational organization;
-Classified information covered by
statute, or pertaining to cryptography, or
disclosing intelligence sources or methods;
-Classified information disclosing a
system, plan, installation, project or spe-
cific foreign relations matter the contin-
ued protection of which is essential to the
national security;
-Classified information which, if dis-
closed, "would place a person in immedi-
ate jeopardy." The jeopardy intended
here is physical harm, not personal em-
barrassment or discomfiture.
Upon request from anyone, including
a member of the general public, exempted
material is subject to mandatory review
by the originating Department after 10
years from the date of origin so long as
(a) the request describes the record with
sufficient particularity that it may be
identified, and (b) the record can be ob-
tained with a reasonable amount of effort.
If material is still classified 30 years
after the date of its original classification,
it shall then be automatically declassified.
Classification may be further extended
only if the head of the originating Depart-
ment personally determines in writing
that its continued protection is essential
to national security or that its disclosure
would place a person in immediate jeop-
ardy. In these instances-and I am en-
couraged to believe that they will be lim-
ited in number-the Department head
must also specify the period of continued
classification.
B. Documents Classified Before June 1,
1972
Essentially these same standards will be
applied to materials classified prior to the
effective date of this order, but in view of
their vast quantity, the 6-10 year rule for
automatic declassification can only be ap-
plied to those documents already subject
to a 12-year declassification under cur-
rent procedures. All others will be subject
to the mandatory review process at any
time after 10 years from the date of origin,
provided the particularity and reasonable
effort tests are met. After 30 years all re-
maining classified information shall be
systematically reviewed for declassifica-
tion by the Archivist of the United States.
The Archivist shall continue the protec-
tion of this material after the 30-year
deadline only if the head of the originat-
ing Department so specifies in writing
under conditions noted above.
This new responsibility for the Archi-
vist is tailored to fit with Administration
plans for an immediate and systematic de-
classification of World War II documents.
On August 3, 1971, I asked the Congress
for a supplemental appropriation of
$636,000 so that we could begin this proj-
ect under the direction of the National
Archives and Records Service of the Gen-
eral Services Administration. The Con-
gress has not yet responded to this request,
but I am hopeful of action this year.
5. Sanctions Against Over-Classification.
Unlike the current system, in which offi-
cials find it in their own best interest to
classify all materials of a questionable
nature, I am hopeful that the new Execu-
tive order will encourage them to exercise
their authority with restraint. The order
explicitly states that information shall
never be classified "in order to conceal
inefficiency or administrative error . . .
or to prevent for any other reason the
release of information which does not re-
quire protection in the interest of national
87-234-74-30
405
