[252] Aug. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Army is to report to the Congress on
his progress on or before July 1, 1974. The
report is to include an inventory of all
dams, a description of inspection activ-
ities undertaken, and recommendations
for a national program of dam inspections
and for the proper allocation of respon-
sibilities between Federal, State, and local
governments as well as public and private
interests.
The objective of this bill-to reduce the
risk of dam failures-is highly desirable,
as we have learned from painful experi-
ence. I think the particulars of this bill
are most unfortunate, however, for they
depart from the sound principle that the
safety of non-Federal dams should pri-
marily rest with the States.
This bill is also marred because it was
enacted hastily, without benefit of com-
mittee hearings, advice from the con-
cerned agencies of the executive branch,
or comments by the affected States. As a
result, the bill ignores the fact that some
States are already conducting effective
safety programs. More than 28,000 dams
may be involved, but the bill fails to estab-
lish any inspection priorities. And the cost
of the program may run as high as $100
million.
Nevertheless, I have approved the rec-
ommendation of the Secretary of the
Army that the Corps of Engineers begin
the activities specified in the bill. His
recommended program contemplates an
inventory of all non-Federal dams along
with inspections necessary to define the
scope of the problem and to identify those
dams which may pose a serious threat to
life and property. Under such a program,
"the Congress would have an opportu-
nity to reexamine the entire situation
based on the first 2 years of reliable ex-
perience," to use the words of the House
Public Works Committee.
Finally, I have directed the Secretary
to seek the greatest possible degree of
State participation under this legislation.
This will have the particular advantage of
utilizing the experience of those States
which have effective dam safety programs.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15951, approved Au-
gust 7, 1972, is Public Law 92-367 (86 Stat.
506).
253 Message to the Senate Transmitting Biological
Weapons Convention. August 10, 1972
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate to ratifica-
tion, the Convention on the Prohibition
of the Development, Production, and
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological)
and Toxin Weapons, and on their De-
struction, opened for signature at Wash-
ington, London and Moscow on April 10,
1972.
The text of this Convention is the result
of some three years of intensive debate
and negotiation at the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament at Geneva
and at the United Nations. It provides
that the Parties undertake not to develop,
produce, stockpile, acquire or retain bio-
logical agents or toxins, of types and in
quantities that have no justification for
peaceful purposes, as well as weapons,
equipment and means of delivery designed
to use such agents or toxins for hostile
purposes or in armed conflict. The provi-
sions of the Convention are described in
770
