Richard Nixon, 1972
Nov. 27 [421]
cussions during the past year, my experience in
public service has convinced me that inherent
limitations in those political processes make the
achievement of fundamental reform too de-
pendent upon a crisis.
This results primarily from the essential but
limited function of political parties and their
candidates. Their basic function is to compete
for the responsibility to govern. To win in this
competition they must win elections. To do this
they tend to avoid specific positions concern-
ing, and discussion of, "life and death" issues
in their formative and controversial stage for
fear of offending uninformed voters and thus
losing votes. As a result, elections and candi-
dates seldom focus adequately on those vital
issues concerning which the electorate must be
knowledgeable if needed reform is to occur
without a crisis.
To remedy this deficiency, the nation needs
a coalition of concerned citizens dedicated to
defining such issues, assembling the relevant,
provable facts, identifying the alternate solu-
tions or solution, and communicating their
findings to the people. Such a body of truth
seekers and communicators could create an
enlightened electorate so that the parties and
their candidates would find it to their advan-
tage to seek voter support on the basis of the
real issues rather than appealing to public and
frequently superficial concerns of the moment.
Additionally, there is urgent need to stimu-
late voluntary and private problem solving in
American life if the role of government is to be
kept within the limits that will continue con-
stitutional government that vests ultimate
power and responsibility in the people
themselves.
As concerned as I am, I would like to be
free to join others in organizing nationally for
such purposes. I am convinced there is too much
at stake to continue to risk our national future
on achieving needed reform through success-
fully surviving the crisis solution process and
the ever increasing reliance for problem solving
on governmental action.
It is for these reasons that I submit my
resignation as Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, to be effec-
tive at your pleasure. I believe I can be more
helpful to you and the nation in such an effort.
I am grateful for the encouragement you have
given me with respect to this future activity.
Fortunately for all of us, your re-election by
an historic margin opens up the opportunity not
only to establish a generation of peace but to
achieve actions as fundamental domestically as
those you are achieving internationally.
With gratitude, admiration and prayerful
support of your efforts.
Respectfully,
GEORGE ROMNEY
[The President, The White House]
421 Remarks on Plans for the Second Term.
November 27, 1972
Ladies and gentlemen:
As
you have been here at Camp David
for the past 2 weeks, I know that you
would like somewhat an evaluation of
what has happened up to this time and
some projection as to the future, so that
you can know how to cover our activities
between now and the time the Congress
reconvenes.
I have had the opportunity over the
past 2 weeks to meet now with all the
members of the Cabinet and with all of
the senior members of the White House
Staff. All of those meetings, as you know,
have taken place at Camp David.
The decisions with regard to the mem-
bers of the next Cabinet will be an-
nounced beginning tomorrow. They will
be announced over a period of time, and I
think that all of the announcements will
be concluded before the 15th of Decem-
ber. As far as the order in which they
are announced, you should draw no con-
notations from that, because that depends
1147
