[140] May 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
140 Eulogy Delivered at Funeral Services for
J. Edgar Hoover. May 4, 1972
Dr. Elson, Mrs. Eisenhower, Your Excel-
lencies from the diplomatic corps, my fel-
low Americans:
Today is a day of sadness for America,
but it is also a day of pride. America's
pride has always been its people, a people
of good men and women by the millions,
of great men and women in remarkable
numbers, and, once in a long while, of
giants who stand head and shoulders
above their countrymen, setting a high
and noble standard for us all.
J. Edgar Hoover was one of the giants.
His long life brimmed over with magnifi-
cent achievement and dedicated service to
this country which he loved so well. One
of the tragedies of life is that, as a rule, a
man's true greatness is recognized only in
death. J. Edgar Hoover was one of the
rare exceptions to that rule. He became a
living legend while still a young man, and
he lived up to his legend as the decades.
passed. His death only heightens the re-
spect and admiration felt for him across
this land and in every land where men
cherish freedom.
The greatness of Edgar Hoover will re-
main inseparable from the greatness of
the organization he created and gave his
whole life to building, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. He made the FBI the
finest law enforcement agency on the
earth, the invincible and incorruptible
defender of every American's precious
right to be free from fear.
Yet, America has revered this man not
only as the Director of an institution but
as an institution in his own right. For
nearly half a century, nearly one-fourth
of the whole history of this Republic,
J. Edgar Hoover has exerted a great in-
fluence for good in our national life. While
eight Presidents came and went, while
other leaders of morals and manners and
opinion rose and fell, the Director stayed
at his post.
I recall that President Eisenhower, a
Republican, and President Johnson, a
Democrat, both strongly recommended,
after my election, that I keep him as Di-
rector of the FBI.
He was one of those unique individuals
who, by all odds, was the best man for a
vitally important job. His powerful leader-
ship by example helped to keep steel in
America's backbone, and the flame of
freedom in America's soul.
He personified integrity; he personified
honor; he personified principle; he per-
sonified courage; he personified discipline;
he personified dedication; he personified
loyalty; he personified patriotism.
These are his legacies to the Bureau he
built and the Nation he served. We can
pay him no higher tribute than to live
these virtues ourselves, as he lived them
all of his years, to love the law as he loved
it, and to give fullest respect, support, and
cooperation to the law enforcement
profession which he did so much to
advance.
When such a towering figure—a man
who has dominated his field so completely
for so many years-finally passes from the
scene, there is sometimes a tendency to
say, "Well, this is an end of an era.”
574
