Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 13 [119]
25 sections of response to over 300 recom-
mendations defy simple summation. Some
comments about the spirit of our review
process are in order, however. The process
was long because I insisted that it be
thorough, honest, and open-minded.
Aware that Federal activities are often
contradictory in their effects on the young,
and anxious to further the development of
a comprehensive national youth policy,
we have endeavored to acquire useful
guidance from the work of your
Conference.
The process was also critical, in the
sense that it steered a middle line between
the standpat and the start-over attitudes
toward change. Your readings of the facts,
your judgments on what to do about them,
have been weighed against our own as
fairly as possible.
In retrospect, the Chairman's metaphor
for the Conference report-"blueprint for
change for this decade"--seems apt. At
Estes Park certain foundational premises
were assumed, and on them a rather re-
markable structure was sketched. The
Administration finds many aspects of this
blueprint already being followed in our
own programs and policies, other aspects
unacceptable for reasons of principle or
practicality, still others well worth follow-
ing in the future. This report indicates
where we agree and differ with the Con-
ference at the present. But it alone does
not and could not offer a final answer to
your concerns and recommendations. For
as our Nation builds, revision of its master
blueprint must go on continuously, re-
sponding to the ideas of many architects
sifted through what might be thought of as
a broad design competition.
Your report, then, was very right in
choosing to address not only the govern-
ment and other institutions, but also the
people as a whole, and in specifying that
it is really the people who must judge your
recommendations. The responses of the
Federal executive, like those later to come
from other institutions, can and will be
reviewed and revised in the time ahead as
the people themselves assimilate the ideas
you have put forward and act on them
through the political process.
My own positions on most of the issues
addressed at Estes Park are a matter of
record and need little reiteration here.
Some of your recommendations, such as
the abrupt unilateral withdrawal from
Vietnam, I oppose. Other recommenda-
tions, including an opening to China, a
volunteer armed force, an income floor for
the poor, and a recasting of the Federal
budget in favor of human resources, I wel-
come as close kin to our initiatives of the
past three years.
To me, however, the significance of the
Conference report emerges much less
through enumeration of the parts than
through evaluation of the whole. It is
threaded through with basic human
values, noble ideals, and the deeply Amer-
ican reach for a better future. Even the
preamble-emotional, hyperbolic, and
combative as it may sound to older ears-
has at its core a broadly appealing call for
new dedication to the Declaration of In-
dependence and the Constitution. On such
common grounds and despite all our dif-
ferences, we can surely reciprocate what
the delegates affirmed: a sense of "kin-
ship with persons of good will of all
generations."
We can also extend the Nation's thanks
to you who gave your best to this impor-
tant pioneering effort. The first White
House Conference on Youth has been
good for the young, good for the Govern-
ment, good for the country. Now quite
529
