[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
direct communications between the
heads of the Soviet and American
governments-the "Hot Line"--by
the use of satellite communications.
The second involves the exchange of
certain information to reduce the
risk of an accidental nuclear war.
-In November our Secretary of Com-
merce visited the Soviet Union and
initiated a series of discussions with
Soviet leaders looking toward the
normalization of our economic rela-
tions. He was received with marked
cordiality. His discussions with Pre-
mier Kosygin opened a broad vista
for an expansion of mutually bene-
ficial economic contacts between
ourselves and the Soviet Union.
In addition to these major develop-
ments, there was a series of agreements
on additional measures striking both in
their diversity and in their promise of
mutual advantage.
-In January, representatives of the
National Aeronautics and Space
Administration
and the Soviet
Academy of Sciences discussed co-
operation in space research. This
followed an agreement the previous
October to study measures which
would permit Soviet space craft to
dock with our own.
-In May we agreed to the participa-
tion of American firms in a large
Soviet manufacturing project on the
Kama River. This will lead to sub-
stantial American sales.
-In May the Surgeon General of the
United States and his Soviet counter-
part discussed the establishment of a
joint health policy board which
would meet annually to cooperate in
research on cancer and heart disease.
-In October, an American delegation
went to Moscow to discuss measures
to reduce the chances of incidents at
sea between our Navy and that of the
Soviet Union. Initial understandings
were reached, and the talks will con-
tinue with the aim of a formal and
broad agreement to reduce the
potential for a dangerous but unin-
tended confrontation.
-In November we agreed with the
Soviet Union to discuss changes in
our maritime regulations to facilitate
the use by the ships of each side of the
port facilities of the other.
THE MEETING AT THE SUMMIT
By the fall of 1971 it was beyond dispute
that marked progress had been made, both
on broad international issues, and in our
bilateral relationship with the Soviet
Union.
Thus the conditions had been created
which justified a meeting between myself
and the Soviet leaders. The progress that
had been made gave promise that such a
meeting could be successful and lead to
additional progress. It ensured that a sum-
mit would not be an empty and self-delud-
ing exercise in atmospherics.
On October 12, 1971, I announced:
"The leaders of the United States and
the Soviet Union, in their exchanges dur-
ing the past year, have agreed that a
meeting between them would be desirable
once sufficient progress had been made in
negotiations at lower levels.
"In light of the recent advances in
bilateral and multilateral negotiations in-
volving the two countries, it has been
agreed that such a meeting will take place
in Moscow in the latter part of May, 1972.
"President Nixon and the Soviet leaders
will review all major issues, with a view
210
