[201] June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I say to the President of Mexico,
to his wife and all of our friends from
Mexico, you need no invitation. I will say
to you, "Está usted en su casa."
And now returning to a more serious
vein, I noted this morning in my remarks
welcoming the President that we expected
to discuss many things, bilateral prob-
lems, hemispheric problems, and interna-
tional problems. We have had very
good talks and we will continue them
tomorrow.
But as I talked to the President of Mex-
ico, I thought of what kind of man he was
and what I could say about him in pre-
senting him to our guests tonight. And I
thought of another man whom it would
be appropriate to mention, particularly in
this room, as I stand below the only por-
trait that hangs in this room, the portrait
of Abraham Lincoln.
Lincoln was the great American Presi-
dent of the 19th century, and a contem-
porary of Lincoln was Benito Juárez.
They did not know each other, but they
respected each other. And each in his way
kept his country together at a time that
it would otherwise have been torn apart.
Both became revered national heroes. And
we are receiving the President of Mexico
on the occasion of the 100th anniversary
of the death of Benito Juárez, whose
statue is just a few blocks from here in
Washington, D.C.
He said many interesting and very pro-
found things during his life. But one very
simple thing he said remains in my mem-
ory. He said, "Peace is respect for the
rights of others."
As I talked to the President of Mexico
today, 100 years after the death of Juárez,
I heard that theme expressed: Peace is
respect by great nations for the rights of
smaller nations. Peace is respect of the
strong for the weak. Peace is respect of
the rich for the poor.
Never have I heard a more eloquent ex-
pression on the part of a world statesman
for the smaller nations, for the weaker
nations, and the proud nations who are
moving upward toward progress and
prosperity, hopefully in a world of peace.
It has been my privilege in 25 years in
government service, and as a private citi-
zen, to meet and know personally over 100
heads of state and heads of government
in the world. And I can say to my friends
here from America, the United States of
America, and to our good friends and
guests from Mexico, that in your President
you have a man who, because of his intelli-
gence, his enormous energy, his humanity,
and his understanding of the problems
not only of his own country, but of the
world, is in the first rank of the statesmen
of the world that I have met in this last
quarter of a century.
That would be a high compliment to
any man, but in proposing my toast to-
night, I propose an even higher compli-
ment. One hundred years after the death
of Benito Juárez, we are fortunate to have
in the great nation to the south of us, a
President who is in the great tradition of
Juárez, who expounds eloquently the
philosophy of Juárez, a man who has been
and will be one of the great leaders not
only of his own country but of this whole
hemisphere.
And so to the man who proudly and
justifiably today wears the mantle of
Juárez, President Echeverría of Mexico,
I propose that we raise our glasses.
NOTE: President Nixon spoke at 10:01 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
He spoke without referring to notes.
682
