[91] Mar. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
and incentives, school districts would
be strongly encouraged not only to
avoid shortchanging the schools that
serve their neediest children, but be-
yond this to establish and maintain
special learning programs in those
schools that would help children who
were behind to catch up. These in-
centives would also encourage school
authorities to provide for voluntary
transfers of students that would re-
duce racial concentrations.
Thus, the act would set standards for
all school districts throughout the Nation,
as the basic requirements for carrying out,
in the field of public education, the Con-
stitutional guarantee that each person
shall have equal protection of the laws.
It would establish broad-based and spe-
cific criteria to ensure against racial
discrimination in school assignments, to
establish the equal educational rights of
Mexican-Americans, Puerto Ricans and
others starting with language handicaps,
to protect the principle of the neighbor-
hood school. It would also provide money
and incentives to help ensure for schools
in poor neighborhoods the fair treatment
they have too often been denied in the
past, and to provide the special learning
and extra attention that children in those
neighborhoods so often need.
DENIAL OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY: THE
REMEDIES
In the past, the courts have largely been
left to their own devices in determining
appropriate remedies in school desegrega-
tion cases. The results have been some-
times sound, sometimes bizarre-but cer-
tainly uneven. The time has come for the
Congress, on the basis of experience, to
provide guidance. Where a violation
exists, the act I propose would provide
that:
-The remedies imposed must be lim-
ited to those needed to correct the
particular violations that have been
found.
-School district lines must not be ig-
nored or altered unless they are
clearly shown to have been drawn for
purposes of segregation.
-Additional busing must not be re-
quired unless no other remedy can be
found to correct the particular viola-
tion that exists.
-A priority of remedies would be es-
tablished, with the court required to
use the first remedy on the list, or the
first combination of remedies, that
would correct the unlawful condi-
tion. The list of authorized reme-
dies-in order-is:
(1) Assigning students to the
schools closest to their homes that
provide the appropriate level and
type of education, taking into ac-
count school capacities and natural
physical barriers;
(2) Assigning students to the
schools closest to their homes that
provide the appropriate level and
type of education, considering only
school capacities;
(3) Permitting students to trans-
fer from a school in which their race
is a majority to one in which it is
a minority;
(4) Creation or revision of attend-
ance zones or grade structures with-
out necessitating increased student
transportation;
(5) Construction of new schools
or the closing of inferior schools;
436
