Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
-A practical and concrete U.S. contri-
bution to economic and social
development;
-A humanitarian concern for the
quality of life in the hemisphere.
SHARING IDEAS AND SHARING
RESPONSIBILITY
The nations of Latin America are our
partners, not our dependents.
A tutelary style of United States leader-
ship is unsuited to today's political condi-
tions. The most effective form of hemi-
spheric collaboration in the 1970's is
based on a wider sharing of ideas and a
wider devolution of initiative.
In this regard, my face-to-face consulta-
tions with Latin American leaders over
the past three years have been especially
valuable. This past December, I conferred
in Washington with President Medici of
Brazil, as part of my consultation with our
allies and friends in advance of my sum-
mit vists to Peking and Moscow. We had
an important exchange of views on major
issues of global as well as hemispheric
concern. In spite of some current disagree-
ments between us, on territorial waters
and fishing rights, for example, our dis-
cussions confirmed a broad area of shared
purposes. I have had important talks also
with Presidents Lleras of Colombia,
Caldera of Venezuela, and Somoza of
Nicaragua, in addition to my frequent
meetings with Presidents Diaz Ordaz and
Echeverria of Mexico.
This is one function of consultation-
to foster a sense of shared objectives and
help achieve them. Hemispheric enter-
prises are most effective-and best help
Latin America realize its great promise-
when Latin Americans themselves play the
major part in designing them. This
strengthens the hemisphere-wide commu-
nity.
However, it has long been obvious to
our Latin American neighbors that within
the wider community they share certain
major interests and viewpoints as a group
vis-a-vis the United States. The United
States gains nothing by ignoring this or
trying to deny it. The differences between
us are apparent. What will preserve the
hemisphere-wide community is practical
cooperation among nations which have
much to offer one another.
This Latin American sense of regional
identity is now increasingly reflected in
hemispheric practice, particularly on eco-
nomic questions. In the Special Commit-
tee on Consultation and Negotiation, for
example, a body in the Inter-American
Economic and Social Council (IA-
ECOSOC) for dealing with trade issues,
the Latin Americans increasingly consult
among themselves before discussions with
the United States. Latin American na-
tions have also formed, on their own, the
Special Coordinating Commission for
Latin America (CECLA), for concerting
their positions on political and economic
issues vis-a-vis the United States and the
rest of the industrialized world. This
group produced the Consensus of Vina
del Mar-the set of proposals to the
United States which contributed valuably
to the program I announced in October
1969.
This new practice of Latin American
consultation can be a constructive force
for cohesion in the hemisphere as a whole;
it can make cooperation between the U.S.
and Latin America more effective and
more responsive. It will be a challenge to
statesmanship to ensure that it never de-
261
