Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
courts, case-by-case, and because the
courts have carried a heavy share of the
burden while having to operate within a
limited framework of reference and rem-
edies. The efforts have therefore fre-
quently been disconnected, and the result
has been not only great progress but also
the creation of problems severe enough to
threaten the immense achievement of
these 18 difficult years.
If we are to consolidate our gains and
move ahead on our problems-both the
old and the new-we must undertake now
to bring the leaven of experience to the
logic of the law.
Drawing on the lessons of experience,
we must provide the courts with a new
framework of reference and remedies.
The angry debate over busing has at
one and the same time both illuminated
and obscured a number of broad areas in
which realism and shared concern in fact
unite most American parents, whatever
their race. Knowledge of such shared con-
cerns is the most precious product of
experience; it also is the soundest founda-
tion of law. The time is at hand for the
legislative, executive and judicial branches
of Government to act on this knowledge,
and by so doing to lift the sense of crisis.
that threatens the education of our chil-
dren and the peace of our people.
The Equal Educational Opportunities
Act that I propose today draws on that
experience, and is designed to give the
courts a new and broader base on which to
decide future cases, and to place the em-
phasis where it belongs: on better educa-
tion for all of our chidren.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY: THE CRITERIA
The act I propose undertakes, in the
light of experience, both to prohibit and
to define the denial of equal educational
opportunity. In essence, it provides that:
-No State shall deny equal educational
opportunity to any person on account
of race, color or national origin.
-Students shall not be deliberately seg-
regated either among or within the
public schools.
-Where deliberate segregation was
formerly practiced, educational agen-
cies have an affirmative duty to re-
move the vestiges of the dual system.
-A student may not be assigned to a
school other than the one nearest his
home, if doing so would result in a
greater degree of racial segregation.
-Subject to the other provisions of
the act, the assignment of students to
their neighborhood schools would not
be considered a denial of equal edu-
cational opportunity unless the
schools were located or the assign-
ment made for the purpose of racial
segregation.
-Racial balance is not required.
-There can be no discrimination in
the employment and assignment of
faculty and staff.
-School authorities may not authorize
student transfers that would have the
effect of increasing segregation.
-School authorities must take appro-
priate action to overcome whatever
language barriers might exist, in
order to enable all students to par-
ticipate equally in educational pro-
grams. This would establish, in effect,
an educational bill of rights for Mex-
ican-Americans, Puerto Ricans, Indi-
ans, and others who start under
language handicaps, and ensure at
last that they too would have equal
opportunity.
-Through Federal financial assistance
435
