[230] July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
precedented measures to deal with it are
required. Under the provisions of this
proposal, disaster loans for Agnes victims
would be changed from present law in the
following ways:
-The maximum amount of principal
which can be cancelled or forgiven would
be increased from $2,500 to $5,000 on
loans made by the Small Business Admin-
istration or the Farmers Home Adminis-
tration.
-The forgiveness feature would be ap-
plicable to the first dollar of a loan rather
than after the repayment of the first $500
of principal as is now the case.
-The interest rate on the loans would
be dropped to 1 percent instead of its
current rate of 5% percent.
This liberalized assistance to individual
homeowners and small businessmen can
mean the difference between recovery and
bankruptcy or ruin. The situation is ur-
gent. Individual people are now making
decisions on whether to rebuild or not.
While my proposal would apply retro-
actively to all victims of Agnes, it is im-
portant to them to know now the terms
of assistance which will be available to
them.
Therefore, I call on the Congress to
respond to this emergency by acting on
the Agnes Recovery Act so that it can
become law within one week.
Second, I recommend supplemental ap-
propriations totaling $1,569,800,000 for
this emergency, the largest single request
of its kind in our history. The vast ma-
jority of these funds would be used for
disaster loans, with $1.3 billion for the
Small Business Administration and $1.8
million for the Farmers Home Adminis-
tration. The SBA funds would be used to
provide loans for homeowners and small
businessmen in disaster areas whose prop-
erty has been damaged or destroyed. The
FHA funds would provide sufficient per-
sonnel to process expeditiously loan re-
quests in rural areas, for which adequate
loan funds now exist. Also included in
my supplemental request are:
-An additional $200 million for the
President's Disaster Relief Fund, to speed
repair and reconstruction of public facili-
ties and to provide temporary housing,
food and unemployment compensation.
-$40 million for the Economic Devel-
opment Administration, $16 million for
the Appalachian Regional Commission
and $12 million for the Corps of Engi-
neers, all to assist in the recovery of dam-
aged communities. The funds for the
Corps of Engineers would go toward flood
control projects in the Susquehanna
River Basin.
Third, I recommend that the existing
authorization for appropriations for high-
way emergency relief be increased by $200
million. Current authority limits amounts
to $50 million per year, which is clearly
not adequate to cope with a disaster of
this magnitude.
I urge that the Congress also act
promptly on these second and third pro-
posals.
The Federal Government must act
quickly and decisively to do its part in
providing relief and aiding recovery in a
cooperative effort with the States and
communities struck by Agnes. We can do
no less. I am confident that the Congress
will share this view.
The White House,
July 17, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message was released
at San Clemente, Calif.
736
