Richard Nixon, 1972
June 1 [187]
man to man, and learn to know, because
an agreement can be made at any time by
any group of leaders, but what really mat-
ters is the continuity; what really matters
is the followthrough.
Now that we know each other so well,
we have the opportunity, through direct
contact, to follow through on some of the
great objectives we talked about in our
discussions. But unless the leaders get, per-
haps, too confident of their abilities, let me
say that Mrs. Nixon and I agree that just
as great a privilege was to meet the wives
of the leaders and to have them here on
this occasion.
I will only say in conclusion that tonight,
while you are asleep, but when it is only
9:30 in the United States, I will be ad-
dressing the United States Congress in
joint session. I will report on many
things-the results of our trips to Austria,
to Iran, to the Soviet Union, and, of
course, to Poland. I can assure you that
one of the greatest impressions that will
be made upon the 500 Members of the
House and Senate who will be there will
be
my report that there is still that strong
bond of friendship between the Polish peo-
ple and the American people, because
Poland has always had a special place in
the hearts of Americans-from the time of
our revolution, in which Poles were so
helpful, through the period when we have
fought side by side as allies against com-
mon enemies.
In conclusion, I can only say that we
appreciate the opportunity to receive you
in this magnificent room, but we also look
forward to the opportunity, based on the
communique that we announced today, of
receiving the leaders of Poland in the
White House. Now, that makes no predic-
tions as to whether I shall be there, but
you can be sure whoever is there will re-
ceive the representatives of the great Pol-
ish people with a warm heart. So, if we
can raise our glasses to Polish-American
friendship in the past, in the present, and
for all the years to come.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. in
Wilanow Palace. He spoke from a prepared
text.
187 Joint Communique Following Discussions With
Polish Leaders. June 1, 1972
I.
At the invitation of the President of
the Council of State of the Polish People's
Republic, Mr. Henryk Jablonski, and the
Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr.
Piotr Jaroszewicz-the President of the
United States, Mr. Richard Nixon, and
Mrs. Nixon paid an official visit to Poland
on May 31 and June 1.
On the first day of the visit, the First
Secretary of the Central Committee of
the Polish United Workers' Party, Eduard
Gierek, conducted talks with President
Nixon.
On June 1, President Nixon called on
the President of the Council of State
Henryk Jablonski and had talks with him.
On the second day of the visit talks were
held between First Secretary of the Cen-
tral Committee of the Polish United
Workers' Party Eduard Gierek, Chairman
of the Council of Ministers Piotr Jarosze-
wicz, and President Nixon.
657
