Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 15 [87]
rity assistance. For without such adequate
levels, our friends and allies will lack the
confidence required for successful inter-
national cooperation in an era of negotia-
tions. And without adequate security
assistance, we cannot safely reduce our
military presence abroad.
I am therefore requesting authoriza-
tions for security assistance programs total-
ling $2,151 million in fiscal year 1973:
$780 million for grant military assistance,
$527 million for military credit sales, and
$844 million for security supporting as-
sistance, of which an estimated $50 million
is intended for Israel.
NARCOTICS CONTROL
I am requesting that a separate appro-
priation of $42.5 million be authorized for
the support of international narcotics
control activities. Control of illicit drug
production and trafficking is one of the
highest priorities of my Administration. I
believe the authorization and appropria-
tion of funds specifically for this purpose
is essential to clearly demonstrate the
determination of the Administration, the
Congress, and the American people to
overcome this serious menace.
SOUTH ASIA RELIEF AND RECONSTRUC-
TION ASSISTANCE
I am also proposing the authorization
of $100 million in fiscal year 1973 for
refugee relief and humanitarian assistance
in South Asia. This sum would be in addi-
tion to the $200 million appropriated for
this purpose for the current fiscal year.
The damage and destruction growing
out of the war between India and Paki-
stan has truly been immense. We have in-
dicated our willingness to work with other
donors under the auspices of the United
Nations to provide relief and rehabilita-
tion to those in need.
The Secretary General of the United
Nations has issued an assessment of these
needs and a special appeal for support. We
have already made an initial contribution
to this effort and will continue to con-
tribute in the light of the efforts of others
and further assessments of need. The $100
million which I am requesting would en-
able us to continue to participate gener-
ously, along with other nations, in this
important work.
The White House,
March 14, 1972.
RICHARD NIXON
87 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Manpower Report of the
To the Congress of the United States:
This is the tenth annual Manpower Re-
port of the President and the third of my
Administration. The information in this
volume, as in its predecessors, will help to
deepen the Nation's understanding of
manpower problems and issues and to
point the way toward achievement of our
human resources development goals.
President. March 15, 1972
The second decade of an active man-
power policy, which begins in March of
this year, is dedicated to attaining full op-
portunity for all American workers.
Our tactics for pursuing this objective
are twofold: First, to accomplish much
needed and long overdue reform of the
manpower programs set up under the
Manpower Development and Training
413
