Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
does his share, and if all branches of Gov-
ernment will join in helping to redefine
the questions before us.
Like any comprehensive legislative rec-
ommendation, the Equal Educational Op-
portunities Act that I have proposed today
is offered as a framework for Congres-
sional debate and action.
The Congress has both the Constitu-
tional authority and a special capability
to debate and define new methods for im-
plementing Constitutional principles. And
the educational, financial and social com-
plexities of this issue are not, and are not
properly, susceptible of solution by indi-
vidual courts alone or even by the Supreme
Court alone.
This is a moment of considerable con-
flict and uncertainty; but it is also a
moment of great opportunity.
This is not a time for the courts to
plunge ahead at full speed.
If we are to set a course that enables
us to act together, and not simply to do
more but to do better, then we must do
all in our power to create an atmosphere
that permits a calm and thoughtful assess-
ment of the issues, choices and con-
sequences.
propose, therefore, that the Congress
act to impose a temporary freeze on new
busing orders by the Federal courts-to
establish a waiting period while the Con-
gress considers alternative means of en-
forcing 14th Amendment rights. I propose
that this freeze be effective immediately
on enactment, and that it remain in effect
until July 1, 1973, or until passage of
the appropriate legislation, whichever is
sooner.
This freeze would not put a stop to
desegregation cases; it would only bar
new orders during its effective period, to
the extent that they ordered new busing.
This, I recognize, is an unusual proce-
dure. But I am persuaded that the Con-
gress has the Constitutional power to enact
such a stay, and I believe the unusual
nature of the conflicts and pressures that
confront both the courts and the country
at this particular time requires it.
It has become abundantly clear, from
the debates in the Congress and from the
upwelling of sentiment throughout the
country, that some action will be taken to
limit the scope of busing orders. It is in
the interest of everyone-black and white,
children and parents, school administra-
tors and local officials, the courts, the
Congress and the executive branch, and
not least in the interest of consistency in
Federal policy, that while this matter is
being considered by the Congress we not
speed further along a course that is likely
to be changed.
The legislation I have proposed would
provide the courts with a new set of stand-
ards and criteria that would enable them
to enforce the basic Constitutional guaran-
tees in different ways.
A stay would relieve the pressure on the
Congress to act on the long-range legis-
lation without full and adequate consid-
eration. By providing immediate relief
from a course that increasing millions of
Americans are finding intolerable, it would
allow the debate on permanent solutions
to proceed with less emotion and more
reason.
For these reasons-and also for the
sake of the additional children faced with
busing now-I urge that the Congress
quickly give its approval to the Student
Transportation Moratorium Act.
No message to the Congress on school
desegregation would be complete unless
it addressed the question of a Constitu-
tional amendment.
441
