[224] July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the name of all the people of the United
States, formal and official invitations to
the governments of nations around the
globe, extending a welcome to the people
of those nations to visit the United States,
as laws and circumstances permit, during
the Bicentennial Era-and especially dur-
ing the year 1976.
This unprecedented invitation to the
world is particularly appropriate for two
reasons:
First, because America is and always
has been a nation of nations. Patriots
from France and Prussia and Poland
helped us win our Revolution. Strong men
and women of every color and creed from
every continent helped to build our farms,
our industry, our cities.
The blood of all peoples runs in our
veins, the cultures of all peoples con-
tribute to our culture, and, to a certain
extent, the hopes of all peoples are bound
up with our own hopes for the continuing
success of the American experiment.
Our Bicentennial Era is a time for
America to say to the nations of the
world: "You helped to make us what we
are. Come and see what wonders your
countrymen have worked in this new
country of ours. Come and let us say thank
you. Come and join in our celebration of
a proud past. Come and share our dreams
of a brighter future."
A second compelling reason for this
invitation to the world relates to our hopes
for a genuine and lasting peace among
nations.
Of course, we are all aware that a real
structure of peace cannot be built on good
will alone. Its foundation must be the
resolution of those basic national differ-
ences which can lead to war.
The United States is doing everything
in its power to lay down that kind of foun-
dation for peace. It is in this cause that I
have traveled to Peking and Moscow,
worked for a just peace in Vietnam, acted
to check the nuclear arms race, moved to
revitalize our alliances.
As we succeed in reducing the danger of
war, however, we must also work at en-
hancing the quality of peace. One of the
best ways of doing this is through people-
to-people contacts-contacts aimed at re-
ducing the fear and the ignorance which
have divided mankind down through the
ages, and at fostering habits of trust and
patterns of cooperation. That was one of
the major purposes of the visits Mrs.
Nixon and I made to the People's Repub-
lic of China and to the Soviet Union.
Some of you have heard the story which
Woodrow Wilson liked to tell about the
English writer Charles Lamb. "I hate that
fellow," Lamb said of another one day; to
which a friend replied, "I didn't think you
knew him." Then Lamb admitted, "Oh, I
don't I can't hate a man I know."
The point is that nations, like individ-
uals, stand a better chance of working con-
structively together if people on both sides
can learn to respect one another as fellow
human beings. Our invitation to the world
can contribute significantly to that crucial
process.
As we move toward 1976, the American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission will
follow up on this invitation with a vigorous
action program. I urge every American
to join in support of that program. Here
are some ways we can all help:
Business and industry can expand their
present efforts to bring the costs of travel,
lodging, and meals within the reach of
millions of additional visitors.
Air carriers and shipping lines can con-
728
