Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 7 [341]
problem the Congress has with spending
control. Here is a direct quote from the
committee's report:
"The need for an expenditure ceiling
of this type arises from the difficulty Con-
gress has experienced in establishing over-
all program priorities. Even when it is
generally recognized that expenditures
need to be limited, the total expenditures
actually occurring seem to keep rising
because, in a period of strong, competing
concepts of program priorities, all are ac-
cepted rather than choices being made
among them."
Now that is what the Congress said, the
Ways and Means Committee, by this over-
whelming majority.
As things now stand, most observers
predict that Congress will vote billions of
dollars more than my January budget
asked. Almost without exception the pro-
grams being considered are for good pur-
poses, but when you take them all to-
gether, they add up to an inflationary
catastrophe or a higher tax nightmare,
and I do not intend to let this happen.
An example is the debate in the Con-
gress and in this campaign over welfare.
Our opponents have proposed in Con-
gress, in their platform, and in their cam-
paign speeches, programs that would add
millions to the welfare rolls and billions
to the tax burden of working Americans.
I have refused to compromise my wel-
fare reform program to meet the demands
of those who favor higher welfare pay-
ments. I want this Nation to be as gener-
ous as possible in helping those who can-
not help themselves, but I shall always
be guided by this principle: I shall oppose
any program which increases payments to
those who do not work if it requires an in-
crease in taxes for those who do work. If
necessary, as I announced last July, I will
continue to veto bills which call for signif-
icantly larger expenditures than my no-
tax-increase budget. If those vetoes are
sustained by the Congress, we can hold the
line against higher taxes.
But the spending ceiling would be bet-
ter. It would be foolproof. A spending ceil-
ing would be absolute insurance that no
new taxes will be required and that no
Federal spending excesses will destroy our
successful anti-inflation program in which
in this year we have cut the rate of in-
flation in half in this country and which
we now have in the United States the low-
est rate of inflation of any major in-
dustrial country in the world.
Beyond this, the new budget I am pre-
paring for next year will be a no-new-tax
budget. Further, to enable me to keep that
promise, I shall make no promises in this
campaign which would require an in-
crease in taxes. Federal spending can be
held down, and, in my budgets this year
and for the next 4 years, spending will be
held down.
But a President, any President, must
have a partner in controlling spending,
and that partner must be the Congress.
My fellow Americans, this Government
does not need any more of your income,
and it should not be allowed to take any
more of your salary and your wages in
taxes.
America needs not a tax increase, but
tax relief. The spending ceiling will get us
started toward that goal. One quarter of
a trillion dollars for 1973 is enough.
Thank you and good afternoon.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:06 p.m.
from Camp David, Md. He spoke from a pre-
pared text.
The address was broadcast live on nationwide
radio. Time for the broadcast was purchased
by the Committee for the Re-Election of the
President.
967
