[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
peace and stability can be restored in the
subcontinent and that all the countries of
the area can develop democratic systems
of government consistent with their own
traditions and history.
"The United States Government has
not been a passive observer of these events.
We have under active and continuous re-
view two elements of the situation which
we regard as particularly urgent: the hu-
man suffering and dislocation which has
taken place and the basic political cause
of this suffering and dislocation.
*
"In regard to the basic cause of this
human suffering and dislocation, my gov-
vernment has also been active. We have
chosen to work primarily through quiet
diplomacy, as we have informed your
Ambassador and Foreign Minister. We
have been discussing with the Government
of Pakistan the importance of achieving
a peaceful political accommodation and
of restoring conditions under which the
refugee flow would stop and the refugees
would be able to return to their homes. ...
"I am also deeply concerned that the
present situation not develop into a more
widespread conflict in South Asia, either
as a result of the refugee flow or through
actions which might escalate the insur-
gency which may be developing in East
Pakistan. The problems involved in this
situation can and should be solved peace-
fully. As you know, in recent months we
have been impressed by the vitality of
Indian democracy and the strength of
purpose which your government has
shown in meeting the complex social and
economic problems which India faces.
India's friends would be dismayed were
this progress to be interrupted by war. As
one of Asia's major powers, India has a
special responsibility for maintaining the
peace and stability of the region."
Throughout the summer, we refrained
from public declarations but continued to
express our concerns privately to all
parties. It would have served neither
Indian nor Bengali interests for us to alien-
ate ourselves from the Government of
Pakistan, whose policy and action were at
the heart of the problem. This was ex-
plained again to the Government of India
in July; its response was to express hope
that our influence would produce results.
The three problems-the humanitarian,
the political, and the danger of war-were
obviously interlinked. The tragedy was
that they could not all be resolved within
the same time-frame. The humanitarian
problem was monumental and immediate.
A political settlement would take time.
The threat of war, tragically, had its own
momentum.
We responded to the humanitarian
emergency with an urgent and massive
program of relief, in the framework of a
United Nations effort. We were ready to
provide $500 million in cash or commod-
ities, nearly twice as much as the rest of
the world combined. We committed $91
million through the UN for the support
of the nearly ten million refugees in India
and $158 million both through the UN
and bilaterally for the 60-70 million peo-
ple in East Pakistan to help avert famine
and stem the further outflow of refugees.
I asked the Congress for $250 million
more, and stated that more food would be
provided if needed. We financed the char-
tering of vessels to transport grain into
the interior of East Pakistan. We gave
financial and technical support to the
whole UN program. Although pockets of
need remained, by November province-
wide famine had been averted in East
298
