Richard Nixon, 1972
Oct. 21 [356]
The rights of each minority must be
vigorously defended-and each minority
must be protected in the opportunity to
have its opinion become accepted as the
majority view.
But on these basic concerns, the ma-
jority view must prevail, and leadership
in a democracy is required to respond to
that view. That is what "majority rule"
and "the consent of the governed" really
means-and we would all do well to take
these ideas seriously.
We have achieved a high level of lead-
ership throughout our history because we
have put aside the notion of a "leader-
ship class." The advantage of a superior
education should result in a deep respect
for-and never contempt for-the value
judgments of the average person.
Does this mean that a President should
read all the public opinion polls before
he acts, and then follow the opinion of the
majority down the line? Of course not.
A leader must be willing to take un-
popular stands when they are necessary.
But a leader who insists on imposing on
the people his own ideas of how they
should live their lives-when those ideas
go directly contrary to the values of the
people themselves-does not understand
the role of a leader in a democracy. And
when he does find it necessary to take an
unpopular stand, he has an obligation to
explain it to the people, solicit their sup-
port, and win their approval.
Let me cite an example: In every
Presidency there are moments when suc-
cess or failure seems to hang in the bal-
ance, when an expression of confidence
by the American people is vitally impor-
tant.
One of those moments came toward
the end of my first year in office. I had
declared that we were going to end our
involvement in the war in Vietnam with
honor. I had made it plain that we fully
understood the difference between set-
tlement and surrender. As you may re-
call, the organized wrath of thousands of
vocal demonstrators who opposed that
policy descended on Washington. Com-
mentators and columnists wondered
whether we would witness what they
referred to as "the breaking of the
President."
On November 3, 1969, I came before
my fellow Americans on radio and tele-
vision to review our responsibilities and
to summon up the strength of our na-
tional character.
The great silent majority of Ameri-
cans-good people with good judgment
who stand ready to do what they believe
to be right—immediately responded. The
response was powerful, nonpartisan, and
unmistakable. The majority gave its con-
sent, and the expressed will of the people
made it possible for the Government to
govern successfully.
I have seen the will of the majority in
action, responding to a call to responsi-
bility, to honor, and to sacrifice. That is
why I cannot ally myself with those who
habitually scorn the will of the majority,
who treat a mature people as children to
be ordered about, who treat the popular
will as something only to be courted at
election time and forgotten between
elections.
That is also why I speak with pride of
the "new majority" that is forming not
around a man or a party, but around a
set of principles that is deep in the
American spirit.
The new American majority believes
that each person should have more of a
999
