Richard Nixon, 1972
Apr. 30 [134]
in new plants and equipment and research
on a basis unheard of in any capitalist
country in the world before.
As far as I am concerned, that is why I
strongly favor not only the present depre-
ciation rates, but going even further than
that, so we can get our plants and equip-
ment more effective. That is why, in terms
of depletion, rather than moving in the
direction of reducing the depletion al-
lowance, let us look at the fact that all the
evidence now shows that we are going
to have a major energy crisis in this coun-
try in the eighties. To avoid that energy
crisis we have to provide incentive rather
than disincentive for people to go out and
explore for oil. That is why you have
depletion, and the people have got to
understand it.
Now, if I can just spend a moment on
the last point, the work ethic. First, let us
well understand that there are millions of
fine Americans that work hard, are proud
of their work, and they have made this
country, they built this country, and they
are going to build it bigger in the future.
But let us also understand that there
has developed and this goes back to the
earlier question which I could not answer
too precisely because it is difficult to an-
swer in an effective way a question so
profound in its implications-but in
recent years there has grown up the idea
more and more and more of something
for nothing; the idea that where a job is
concerned that we will take those jobs
only if they happen to be jobs that we con-
sider, as the term is used, not menial.
Let me ask any of you who have
traveled to Los Angeles, to Miami, to New
York, and so forth, Denver, Dallas, any-
place, pick up your papers, look at the
Help Wanted ads, and you will find thou-
sands of Help Wanted ads in those par-
ticular papers, and yet you will find
unemployment, and in the city of New
York alone, a million on the welfare rolls.
Now this is not always true. It may not
even be true in a majority of cases, but it
is sometimes true, and very simply, it is
that in case after case, an individual who
is able to work refuses to work because
the job is not one that he feels is up to his
capabilities. He feels that it is too menial
a job.
Well, I must have grown up in a differ-
ent time. I say that no job is menial if it
provides bread on the table and shelter
for a family. Rather than for a man to
have to go on public welfare, he ought
to take the job.
It is that spirit that we need revived in
this country, and we have to revive it not
only down among those who might poten-
tially be on welfare rolls, but up and down
our whole society, because let us be quite
honest in our own self-evaluation: The
tendency, too often, in modern education,
in some of our great colleges and our
great universities, is to downplay the ne-
cessity for excellence, for pride in work,
and all these other great values that have
made this country what it is.
I just want to say on that point, I have
great confidence in the future as far as
America's competitive position is con-
cerned, but let us make no mistake about
it: Simply letting the dollar float, having
a realignment of currency, erecting tem-
porary barriers, a 15-percent or a 10-per-
cent surcharge or the rest, isn't going to do
the trick. The United States will be able
to compete in the world only when the
United States and the people of this coun-
try are competitive in every sense of the
word. We can do it, but we have to
tighten our belts if we are going to meet
that task.
567
