Richard Nixon, 1972
Jan. 5 [3]
and used again and again-up to 100
times. The resulting economies may bring
operating costs down as low as one-tenth
of those for present launch vehicles.
The resulting changes in modes of flight
and reentry will make the ride safer and
less demanding for the passengers, so that
men and women with work to do in space
can "commute" aloft, without having to
spend years in training for the skills and
rigors of old-style space flight. As scientists
and technicians are actually able to ac-
company their instruments into space,
limiting boundaries between our manned
and unmanned space programs will dis-
appear. Development of new space ap-
plications will be able to proceed much
faster. Repair or servicing of satellites in
space will become possible, as will delivery
of valuable payloads from orbit back to
earth.
The general reliability and versatility
which the shuttle system offers seems likely
to establish it quickly as the workhorse of
our whole space effort, taking the place
of all present launch vehicles except the
very smallest and very largest.
NASA and many aerospace companies
have carried out extensive design studies
for the shuttle. Congress has reviewed and
approved this effort. Preparation is now
sufficient for us to commence the actual
work of construction with full confidence
of success. In order to minimize technical
and economic risks, the space agency will
continue to take a cautious evolutionary
approach in the development of this new
system. Even so, by moving ahead at this
time, we can have the shuttle in manned
flight by 1978, and operational a short
time later.
It is also significant that this major new
national enterprise will engage the best
efforts of thousands of highly skilled work-
ers and hundreds of contractor firms over
the next several years. The amazing "tech-
nology explosion" that has swept this
country in the years since we ventured
into space should remind us that robust
activity in the aerospace industry is
healthy for everyone-not just in jobs and
income, but in the extension of our capa-
bilities in every direction. The continued
preeminence of America and American
industry in the aerospace field will be an
important part of the shuttle's "payload."
Views of the earth from space have
shown us how small and fragile our home
planet truly is. We are learning the im-
peratives of universal brotherhood and
global ecology-learning to think and act
as guardians of one tiny blue and green
island in the trackless oceans of the uni-
verse. This new program will give more
people more access to the liberating per-
spectives of space, even as it extends our
ability to cope with physical challenges of
earth and broadens our opportunities for
international cooperation in low-cost,
multi-purpose space missions.
"We must sail sometimes with the wind
and sometimes against it," said Oliver
Wendell Holmes, "but we must sail, and
not drift, nor lie at anchor." So with man's
epic voyage into space-a voyage the
United States of America has led and still
shall lead.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet and the transcript of a news briefing
on the space shuttle. Participants in the news
briefing were James C. Fletcher, Adminis-
trator, and George M. Low, Deputy Admin-
istrator, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
87-234-74——6
21
