Richard Nixon, 1972
Feb. 9 [56]
tiate on behalf of third parties. We
cannot set out to build an honorable re-
lationship of mutual respect with the PRC
unless we also respect the interests of our
long term friends.
Should our moves be read as shifting
our priorities from Tokyo to Peking? They
should not. With the Chinese we are at
the beginning of a long process. With the
Japanese we have enjoyed over two
decades of the closest political and eco-
nomic cooperation. It would be short-
sighted indeed to exchange strong ties
with a crucial ally for some mitigation of
the hostility of a dedicated opponent. But
it would be equally shortsighted not to
seek communication and better under-
standing with a quarter of the world's peo-
ple. We see no conflict in these two aims.
The preservation of our close relation-
ship with Japan during this effort to
broaden communications with China will
call for wisdom and restraint on all sides.
Each of us will have to avoid temptations
to exacerbate relations between the other
two. Despite the uneasy legacies of history,
there can be more room for progress
through cooperative interchange than
through destructive rivalry.
What are the implications for our long-
standing ties to the Republic of China? In
my address announcing my trip to Peking,
and since then, I have emphasized that
our new dialogue with the PRC would not
be at the expense of friends. Nevertheless,
we recognize that this process cannot help
but be painful for our old friend
on Taiwan, the Republic of China. Our
position is clear. We exerted the maximum
diplomatic efforts to retain its seat in the
United Nations. We regret the decision of
the General Assembly to deprive the
Republic of China of its representation
although we welcomed the admission of
the People's Republic of China. With the
Republic of China, we shall maintain our
friendship, our diplomatic ties, and our
defense commitment. The ultimate rela-
tionship between Taiwan and the main-
land is not a matter for the United States
to decide. A peaceful resolution of this
problem by the parties would do much
to reduce tension in the Far East. We are
not, however, urging either party to fol-
low any particular course.
What does our China initiative mean for
our relations with the Soviet Union? Our
policy is not aimed against Moscow. The
U.S. and the USSR have issues of para-
mount importance to resolve; it would be
costly indeed to impair progress on these
through new antagonisms. Nevertheless
some observers have warned that progress
toward normalization of relations with
Peking would inevitably jeopardize our
relations with its Communist rival. There
is no reason for this to be the case. Our
various negotiations with the Soviet
Union, for example on Berlin and SALT,
made major progress subsequent to the
July 15 announcement; and the agree-
ment to meet with the Soviet leadership in
May 1972 was announced on October 12,
1971.
Others have suggested that we should
use our opening to Peking to exploit Sino-
Soviet tensions. We have consistently ex-
plained to all parties that we will not
attempt to do so because it would be self-
defeating and dangerous. We did not
create the differences between the two
Communist powers. They disagree over
the proper interpretation of Communist
philosophy, a subject in which we have
no competence and little interest. And they
dispute the lines of their common border,
which can hardly be susceptible to our
manipulation. In any event we will try to
219
