[56] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
could not afford to be cut off from a
quarter of the world's population. We had
an obligation to try to establish contact, to
define our positions, and perhaps move on
to greater understanding.
Recalling our historical experience and
contemplating tomorrow's world, I saw
the present period as a unique moment.
The shifting tides in international rela-
tions, our new foreign policy perspectives,
the changing face of China-these were
the factors, at work in Peking as well as
Washington, that beckoned our two
nations toward a dialogue.
The following considerations shaped
this Administration's approach to the
People's Republic of China.
-Peace in Asia and peace in the world
require that we exchange views, not
so much despite our differences as
because of them. A clearer grasp of
each other's purposes is essential in
an age of turmoil and nuclear
weapons.
-It is in America's interest, and the
world's interest, that the People's Re-
public of China play its appropriate
role in shaping international arrange-
ments that affect its concerns. Only
then will that great nation have a
stake in such arrangements; only
then will they endure.
-No one nation should be the sole
voice for a bloc of states. We will deal
with all countries on the basis of
specific issues and external behavior,
not abstract theory.
-Both Chinese and American policies
could be much less rigid if we had no
need to consider each other perma-
nent enemies. Over the longer term
there need be no clashes between our
fundamental national concerns.
-China and the United States share
many parallel interests and can do
much together to enrich the lives of
our peoples. It is no accident that the
Chinese and American peoples have
such a long history of friendship.
On this basis we decided that a careful
search for a new relationship should be
undertaken. We believed that the Chinese
could be engaged in such an effort.
THE UNFOLDING OF U.S. POLICY
Both political and technical problems
lay in the way of such a search. When
this Administration assumed responsi-
bility, there had been virtually no contact
between mainland China and the Ameri-
can people for two decades. This was true
for our governments as well, although
sterile talks in Geneva and Warsaw had
dragged on intermittently since 1955. A
deep gulf of mistrust and noncommunica-
tion separated us.
We faced two major questions. First,
how to convey our views privately to the
authorities in Peking? Second, what pub-
lic steps would demonstrate our willing-
ness to set a new direction in our
relations?
Within two weeks of my inauguration
we moved on both of these fronts. I or-
dered that efforts be undertaken to com-
municate our new attitude through pri-
vate channels, and to seek contact with
the People's Republic of China.
This process turned out to be delicate
and complex. It is extremely difficult to
establish even rudimentary communica-
tions between two governments which
have been completely isolated from one
another for twenty years. Neither techni-
cal nor diplomatic means of direct con-
tact existed. It was necessary to find an
intermediary country which had the full
214
