Richard Nixon, 1972
Mar. 17 [91]
eral school-aid funds specifically on
the areas of greatest educational
need, in a way and in sufficient quan-
tities so they can have a real and
substantial impact in terms of im-
proving the education of children
from poor families.
2. The Student Transportation Morato-
rium Act of 1972.
-This would provide a period of time
during which any future, new busing
orders by the courts would not go
into effect, while the Congress con-
sidered legislative approaches-such
as the Equal Educational Opportu-
nities Act to the questions raised by
school desegregation cases. This mor-
atorium on new busing would be
effective until July 1, 1973, or until
the Congress passed the appropriate
legislation, whichever was sooner. Its
purpose would not be to contravene
rights under the 14th Amendment,
but simply to hold in abeyance fur-
ther busing orders while the Congress
investigated and considered alterna-
tive methods of securing those
rights-methods that could establish
a new and broader context in which
the courts could decide desegregation
cases, and that could render busing
orders unnecessary.
Together, these two measures would
provide an immediate stop to new busing
in the short run, and constructive alterna-
tives to busing in the long run-and they
would give the Congress the time it needs
to consider fully and fairly one of the most
complex and difficult issues to confront the
Nation in modern times.
BUSING: THE FEARS AND CONCERNS
Before discussing the specifics of these
proposals, let me deal candidly with the
controversy surrounding busing itself.
There are some people who fear any
curbs on busing because they fear that it
would break the momentum of the drive
for equal rights for blacks and other mi-
norities. Some fear it would go further,
and that it would set in motion a chain of
reversals that would undo all the ad-
vances so painfully achieved in the past
generation.
It is essential that whatever we do to
curb busing be done in a way that plainly
will not have these other consequences. It
is vitally important that the Nation's con-
tinued commitment to equal rights and
equal opportunities be clear and concrete.
On the other hand, it is equally im-
portant that we not allow emotionalism to
crowd out reason, or get so lost in sym-
bols that words lose their meaning.
One emotional undercurrent that has
done much to make this so difficult an
issue is the feeling some people have that
to oppose busing is to be anti-black. This
is closely related to the arguments often
put forward that resistance to any move,
no matter what, that may be advanced
in the name of desegregation is "racist."
This is dangerous nonsense.
There is no escaping the fact that some
people oppose busing because of racial
prejudice. But to go on from this to con-
clude that "anti-busing" is simply a code
word for prejudice is an exercise in arrant
unreason. There are right reasons for op-
posing busing, and there are wrong rea-
sons-and most people, including large
and increasing numbers of blacks and
other minorities, oppose it for reasons that
have little or nothing to do with race. It
would compound an injustice to persist
in massive busing simply because some
people oppose it for the wrong reasons.
431
