Richard Nixon, 1972
Sept. 22 [313]
what happened to this 19-year-old does
not happen to other young people across
this country.
Finally, one other thought that is not
perhaps related to what I have said, but
in a way it is. The great majority of the
people that cross this border, whether they
are Mexicans coming to visit the United
States or Americans returning from
Mexico, are good, law-abiding citizens.
Be courteous to them. Be kind to them.
I remember, when I crossed the border
in 1940, how very kind the Mexican offi-
cials were to us, a newlywed couple from
California on our honeymoon. And I also
remember that when we came back across
the border at Laredo, first, naturally, after
all we had seen, we were still very glad
to get back home, but I remember how
very
kind and thoughtful the Customs offi-
cials were. They went through our car,
as they should have. They didn't find any-
thing. But they didn't make us feel un-
welcome.
And I simply want to say that in your
long hours and your long days, do your
job, go after those that are guilty, but,
also, make the good people—and that is
the great majority, whether they are
Mexicans or Americans-make them feel
welcome, make them feel that it is good
to be in the United States of America.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:43 p.m. at
the United States Customs border station in
Laredo. He spoke without referring to notes.
On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet on the Laredo Customs
facility.
313 Statement About Drug Abuse Law Enforcement.
September 22, 1972
THE U.S. Customs agents with whom I
met today at the International Bridge be-
tween Texas and Mexico are representa-
tive of the many thousands of dedicated
Federal, State, and local law enforcement
officials engaged in our total war against
drug abuse all across this country-men
and women to whom every American owes
a debt of gratitude for their efforts to de-
feat the menace which is truly "public
enemy number one."
Keeping heroin and all dangerous drugs
out of the United States is every bit as
crucial as keeping out armed enemy in-
vaders. In this effort, the Bureau of Cus-
toms is one of our first lines of defense. Its
agents on all our coasts and borders do an
important job comprised of equal parts
of vigilance, exacting detail, tedium, and
constant danger. Here in Laredo these
men put their lives on the line daily, as do
their Mexican counterparts across the bor-
der in Nuevo Laredo, in order to help save
countless other lives from drug addiction.
My firsthand inspections of our drug
abuse enforcement efforts, together with
the continuous reports I am receiving on
the subject, have convinced me that those
responsible for making the arrests, the
seizures, and the investigations are doing
their part and more. But others farther up
the chain of our criminal justice system
must also do their part. For the sake of
America's children and our young people,
we simply cannot tolerate a weak link any-
where in that chain-and this is why I am
so distressed by some indications that some
judges may now have become such a weak
link.
Sources ranging from news reports to
887
