[372] Oct. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have given top priority to the develop-
ment of career education, vocational edu-
cation, so that students leaving school
have a choice of entering the job market
with a salable skill or continuing their
education, if they prefer, at a higher
level.
For college students:
-We have more than doubled loan
and grant amounts, so that today $4 bil-
lion in Federal student assistance is avail-
able.
And for all Americans:
-We have launched a Right to Read
program that should soon make illiteracy
a thing of the past in the United States.
Thanks to this effort, we can reasonably
hope that by the end of this decade nearly
every American reaching young adult-
hood will have basic reading skills.
Under this Administration the Federal
Government is also attempting to ful-
fill its responsibility to the Nation's black
colleges. I have requested over $200 mil-
lion in assistance to these institutions for
fiscal year 1973. That is more than double
the funding level of fiscal year 1969 when
I came into office.
As a result of our initiatives, a good
education is no longer a remote dream for
millions of young Americans who would
not have had this chance a few short years
ago. The ceiling on opportunity and
achievement in America today is almost
unlimited.
One part of the educational commu-
nity that has contributed to America from
the very beginnings of our history faces.
special needs today, and they are urgent.
I refer to our nonpublic schools.
Were these nonpublic schools to fail,
the loss of diversity, the elimination of
freedom of choice for millions of parents,
and the new burden on the already
crowded public school system would be
but part of the cost.
Lost, as well, would be an irreplaceable
and precious national asset-schools that
have provided millions of American chil-
dren with a moral code and religious prin-
ciples by which to live. Nonpublic schools
have served this Nation and people faith-
fully and well by maintaining and con-
tinuing the religious traditions and beliefs
that are so integral a part of our Ameri-
can heritage. I believe that parents of
school-age children should be provided
the freedom to choose a religious-centered
education for their children, if they de-
sire-and I am determined to help guar-
antee that freedom of choice.
Therefore, just as in the last Congress
this Administration supported a tax credit
for
parents of children attending nonpub-
lic schools, so I am irrevocably committed
to seeking tax credit legislation in the next
Congress, since the last Congress did not
act.
In my judgment, the Constitution does
not prohibit tax inducements to encour-
age and maintain diversity in American
education-and I am prepared to fight to
guarantee that that diversity remains in
America.
Another fundamental element of Amer-
ican education which goes back to our be-
ginnings is the neighborhood school. The
neighborhood school is the focal point of
community involvement. It binds to-
gether students, parents, and school ad-
ministrators. It brings out the best in all
of them.
No one profits by the confusion and
resentment that is generated when whole
school systems are disrupted by the forced
busing of schoolchildren away from their
1028
