Appendix E
investment banking business in New York,
where he was a long-time personal friend and
associate of the President.
There is one further organizational step in
the area of economic policy which the President
has decided to take. I will give you the basic
announcement on this, and then Secretary
Shultz, who is here this morning, will elaborate
somewhat on the matter which I am about to
outline for you.
As President Nixon outlined in some of his
statements since the election, it is his aim, in
recasting his Administration for the second
term, to achieve better coordination in the
formation and execution of policy. The Presi-
dent, you may also recall, in his remarks at
Camp David on Monday spoke specifically of
the delegation of more power to responsible
members of the Administration's team in the
Cabinet.
Pursuant to this goal, the President is naming
Secretary Shultz as an Assistant to the Presi-
dent, in addition to continuing his present
duties at the Treasury Department. In this
capacity, it is the President's intention that
Secretary Shultz will be the focal point and
the overall coordinator of the entire economic
policy decisionmaking process, both domes-
tically and internationally.
He will, of course, work closely with the
Council of Economic Advisers under Herb
Stein, and the Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy under Peter Flanigan. His duties
as Assistant to the President will include chair-
ing the new Cabinet-level Council on Economic
Policy. The exact makeup of this the Secretary
will give to you when he is here in a moment
to brief you on his additional assignment.
Also, as a part of these new responsibilities,
the Secretary will be available to the President
for other assignments or special activities which
the President may choose to ask Secretary
Shultz to involve himself in.
Before going to your questions, and then to
the more detailed briefing by Secretary Shultz,
let me simply conclude by saying that President
Nixon feels that, with the single exception of
national security and defense, he has no higher
obligation to the American people than that of
providing the leadership to insure a healthy,
prosperous economy in the United States, an
economy which will make a better life not only
for all Americans, but will contribute to a
healthy economy throughout the world.
The President is determined to carry the
very significant economic progress of his first
term forward in the second term, a term which
he anticipates will be a time of increasing
challenges as well as increasing opportunities
economically. The President is confident that
the organizational changes which are an-
nounced today will enhance his ability to meet
that objective, and he is gratified that a man
such as George Shultz, who has the excep-
tional leadership capability which he has, will
take charge of carrying out the new efforts in
the second term.
[Following the Press Secretary's news briefing,
Mr. Shultz spoke as follows:
This is the first time that I can remember
that there has been any show of deference on
the part of the Press Secretary. Something
must have happened here. It is a new world,
I will tell you. [Laughter]
I would first like to express my gratitude
for the President's continued confidence in me
and to say that I will be doing everything I
possibly can, working as hard as I possibly can,
to merit that continued confidence.
Let me first talk a bit about the Council in
terms of the membership; second, a little about
the mode of operation of the Council on Eco-
nomic Policy as I would see it; and, third,
about the arrangements for my own personal
staffing on this as I at least anticipate it, recog-
nizing that as with everything these matters
evolve as they go along and develop as we try
to do the sensible thing as we go along.
First of all, I think that you might say the
primary membership of the Council on Eco-
nomic Policy would be the Labor Department,
Commerce Department, Agriculture Depart-
ment, Transportation has a great play in this,
and, especially when you come to international
economic policy, the State Department, and
within the Executive Office of the President.
In addition to the tremendous job that Mr.
Ash will have as Director of the Office of
Management and Budget in putting together
the budget and working with the President in
getting the priorities as expressed in the budget,
he will also, of course, be a key member of the
87-234-74-81
E-5
